

LISTEN!
Our Brave Australian Boys are Calling for YOUR HELP!
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
Will you fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS y t to T «
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written, ML/ ML/ IvJ 1 •
"WATKINS CSh CD., Iron and Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street* Sydney.-
es.D-
Qdvance, t^Hc r neiL-
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY /]
BILLS DISCOUNTED y
EASY TERMS G LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.6.1.C9 LTP
HEAD OrriCE*. 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Dally Telegraph” New Building.
AB6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ceiream
11 Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN >
f Made in Australia bi/ '
f»MCKSTE*RNSiC9
SYDNEY.
a
ml’)
•THE BEST !
n
,
E 2
s> 4
m
n
&
n
n
n
RAWSON MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE
built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages over wooden
post fences, as it saves 80 per cent, in erection
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particulars write to The Raweon Moody Mfg:. Co., 343 Kent St.,
Sydney, or send for an Illustrated Catalogue B.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
roost beneficially when taken daily * after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET.^SYDNEYj^
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
KE: i;
Used since Isi«i CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT. FALLINC EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, Endand.
Insist on “Singleton's"—refuse all substitutes.
is a perfect roofing.
“Not the same as others.”
It is the practical test that proves a roofing good or indifferent, and
practical tests of every nature have proved in every way that Malthoid
is perfect; that it COMBINES all the desirable features found in other
roofings. Resists all weather conditions; never drys out, rots or leaks,
and will not blow off in a gale.
Write to-day for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chains House, Sydney.
THE - CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L? OR £ N A LLE>
locomotive, general & agricultural engineers.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK. OF ACC DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL f WAGGONS. IRON fc MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDER_DISCS.
Arthur
<5 (p
machinery.
DEN BY MOTOR LORRIES
Selected by America’s Chief Post Office, New York, as THE BEST,
Several 2'/ 2 -Ton Models STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: THE QUAY, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
0*
a
The Bulletin
VoJ. 38.—N0. 1954.]
[Thursday, July 26, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW IS THE TIME TO GET BUSY IN YOUR FLOWER-GARDEN
SOMETHING NEW!
“ npthlng lo,t
Posted 1/1 WHAT IS IT ? Posted J/J
It is s book on Flower Gardening written he a „ „,,n /
full information regarding garden Derations for each day weekend 1 mo U^ eCt / *l" d * lves at a » lanc< '
njto chapters each representing one month, and each month has In ?°/ the .- vear - T t is divided
giving dates for same. The text that follows each monthly ™l i r l separate calendar of operations,
gardening, practical directions for successful floriculture™anda eener-Ul* deVOted P f? chats «P°n floral
successful experiences as a practical gardener.' ’ d Seneial resume of the author's wide and
By A, E; COLE, Author of “The Australian Flower w „ ,
COLE'S BOOK ARCADE. 346 George Street, Sydney: aid a, Bourke St^MtaL
afraid of food
themselves*'"? ,sts / s reB “ lds their food. and Hud
Eumenthol Jujubes correct acidity of the stom d U , ns !' l tlsfvin ? diet. Hudson’s
prevent abnormal fermentation of the ' am t - Pn ' antiseptic properties
tood, thus allowing the natural digestive
ferments to act, and if taken regularly
that R he l- 1° , improve the digestion
nat a stiict diet becomes unnecessarv
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are most
who suff er from Heart
bmn. Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE - 77/VS, 1/e
Recommended hy the UrdjcaJ
Me * LANCET ' THE I'^CTITIONEg-;
m mV! i 2
The Red Page
KIL[?]
Berk. (lark lay the drifters against the red
West
As they shot their long meshes of sleet O'oer-
aide,
waters were rot ring to
Im!tir< 5 W/.gCeot out. at the ■ oj the
And&tHfSmjU knew, dehere that lasso would
k % w&kif yM'j
'£&***£& n>Oj^Wt$!rlulled her was tagging
v f '/ " %n&:cn r
'Tt*- .jum r• je'eh „ K ,~ek ere Kilmeny conn
Home;
.And nobody knee where Kilmeny. had been.
kthe'd a gun ill her. how that was Xea casilas
best.
And a gun at her stent that was fresh froth >
the Ofo/de.j
And a- secret her skipper had newer confessed.
Not eeett til dawn, to his newly-teed bride:
And a wireless that whispered above, like a
gnome.
The laugh ter of, London, the boasts of Berlin -
Oh. if mail hare been mermaids ilmt lured
her from home;
Hut .... nobody knew where Kilmeny had
been.
It was dark when Kilmeny came home from
her guest.
With w bridge dabbled red where her skipper
had died.-
Ilul she moved like, a bride with a rose at her
breast.
And " Well done, h i Inicny," the t 'Admiral
cried.
Now. at si■’■tii-four fathom u conger rnatf
come.
And nose at the bones of a drowned sub-
marine;
But, tote in the everiing, Kilmeny came
- home;
And nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.
There's a wandering shadow that stares at
the foam
(Though they sing all the night to old Eng-
land, their queen),
Late,- lute in the * evening. Kihnenv came
home.
And nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.
Alfred Noyes in N. Y. BOOKMAN.
Fiction
The thousand guineas offered by Hodder
and Stoughton in their recent novel com-
petition could not have been awarded to
anyone else than Jessie Douglas Kerruigh:
her Miss Haroun Al-Raschid (per Dym-
ock’s Library) is aptly named, for these
amazing adventurers in Kurdistan and
Mesopotamia have some of the quality
of The Arabian Nights. The heroine, the
daughter of an English Assyriologist and of
an hereditary pasha in Kurdistan, in other
words a Eurasian, had, it is hinted, that
celebrated Sultan of Bagdad for an ancestor.
Her mother was an Abbasside. On the
distaff side she was of sacrosanct lineage;
and Haroun Al-Ilaschid or Haroun ’r
Bashed, as she tells it should be, was also
an Abbasside,
Kurdistan, a-seethe with mixed religions
and assorted races, is the place where any-
thing may happen; and in this novel it
happens in most of the chapters. “The East
is not wholly populated by obsequious ser-
vants, obliging sultans, well-bred harem
ladies and agreeable aides.” The author
knows her. terrain so thoroughly that at
times she is almost unintelligible; she for-
the average reader is not familiar
with the ceremonial of Eastern intercourse,
and would not be able to tell a Chaldcean
from a Kurd. Thus when we learn that the
heroine was in Kurdistan during the Autumn
fusing, when “the sedentary tribes indulge
in little outbursts of animal spirits: tribal
hghts and some slaying of tax-gatherers and
native Christians” and that “half the Arton-
sha were up, the unspeakable Herki were
worse than usual, the Dikrans were restive
and the Gadarwand showed signs of breaking
out, ' we are duly impressed, but are we
enlightened ?
The heroine’s adventures include desperate
enterprises,' disguises and a charming adven-
ture in a Christian church, where she had to
take the place of a corpse in a coffin in order
to avert suspicion from the village. The
kindly Turk had removed the corpse and
filled that coffin full of rifles; but the
heroine foiled his plot of “discovering” those
rifles in the village and thus giving the Bey
an excuse to exterminate the Christians and
secure his preferment as a vigilant official.
Even excavating the ruins of buried cities,
under the heroine’s directions, proves wildly
exciting; and the author knows as much
about Assyriology as she does about the
tribal habits of the Georgians and the psy-
chology of the Turk. There are tricks even
m. the trade of Assyriology. “A Museum
iriece is a trade term for arms, statues
votive images, etc., as distinguished from in-
scriptions. Inscribed tablets are what the
Assyriologist is seriously concerned in find-
from them scholars are now rebuilding
the history, life, literature and magic of the
f.f*? 1 .worhl; It is advisable to keep an eye
lilting for Museum Pieces, however; unless
you can read them, inscribed tablets are not
inordinately exciting—to the exoteric eye
they suggest badly-shaped buns and short-
bread , but anyone can feel the romance of
arms and sculptures three, four or eight
thousand years old. If you get together a
ueat lilt!*- Collection lor exhibition in
London, the British public comes to gape,
the newspapers print, nice articles about, you,
people realise you are doing something tangi-
ble, and—subscribe ip your fund. This is
the sordid side ot Asisyriology, divine science
of grave-ransacking imperially.'’ And the
excitement of it! The race between two rival
parties to be the first to stake out a claim
on a virgin Tel —an Unexplored mound in
the desert I
The author cleverly provides an unex-
pected hero; and tin* plot, dovetails neatly
into an unexpected climax. The vivacity
and assurance of the style, the character
drawing of a host of diilercnt racial types,
and the exotic charm of Asiatic Turkey com-
bine to give this novel a un’uue distinction.
It is the .l,oU2nd .Irit hi nit Nights' Enter-
tainment. ' *
d*
There is the same intimate knowledge of
the Chinese in Putnam Weale’s The Altar
Fire (Methuen, per Dyinock's Library) as
is shown by Jessie KerrCtish of the inhabi-
tants of Asiatic Turkey; and the picture of
the Chinese Revolution in 1911, by which
the Republic was established, suffers from
its excessive detail. There is left in the
mind of the reader a confused impression of
vague motives, inexplicable actious, inco-
herent utterances and mysterious reactions,
out of which hell’s broth the Republic was
brewed. His characters include Chinese
revolutionary leaders, Manchu princes, cos-
mopolitan financiers, diplomats, assassins,
society wpmen, an American girl married to
a Chinese, and a Chinese girl married to a
British Indian officer.
We see Peking in a thousand aspects; and
we see the revolution revolving not about
any high principles of Republicanism but
about money. Apparently every political
movement in modern China depends on
bribery, and the problem that confronts the
rival leaders is chiefly whether each can bribe
the .army of the other. Thus when Nanking
was unexpectedly without any obvious reason
evacuated by the Imperialist forces, the
revolutionary leader was naturally worried.
He explains to his follower: “Why, do you
know we bought all the gunners in the forts
defending the city a month ago. That’s why
our camps were never bombarded, that’s why
we were able to invest the city completely.
Now I will, tell you why I suspect that some-
thing more dangerous to our cause than de-
feat in the field is beginning to be used
against us. We never paid the city to sur-
render ; we hadn’t money enough for that!
We never paid the Imperialists to evacuate
a single position; the agreement was only
about the artillery fire, which we knew our
new recruits couldn’t stand. Now, if our
side didn’t pay the Imperialists to evacuate,
somebody else must have.” Obviously the
Chinese Field-Marshal has problems solve
that never troubled Hindenburg or Jo fire,
lake the recent Imperialist coup d’etat, of
the motives and meaning of which this his-
torical novel aptly affords a brilliant illumi-
nation, the struggle of 1911 was conducted by
both sides on the Chinese assumption that
the conflict was j lrely political and financial,
and could not he in any way influenced by
military considerations. Apparently the
Chinese win or 1 se their revolutions accord-
ing to the amoufij of readv cash that each
side can borrow, exact or be bribed with.
Ihe intrigues within intrigues that Weale
describes are extraordinary and almost in-
explicable.
The foreign community in Peking plays this
financial game witii the same feverish zest
as the cunning Chinese leaders, though the
author is careful throughout to represent the
foreign official diplomats as standing aloof
from this mad orgy of loans and bribes. The
frivolous European residents are swept
to and fro by their emotions, love affairs and
society enmities; and the author leaves us
with a lasting picture of these helpless
Europeans adrift on a sea of unplumbed
depths of Chinese rascality, cunning, ambi-
*lofi an A contempt for the foreigner.
Tiie story has a dozen different plots, which
the author rightly does not allow to be anv-
thing but incidents in his main plot. That
is China in revolution.
owSw’V’ “ Bell ® riv «” k going to have the
crowning honor, for a poet, of founding a
thnn o< T'i disciple4s no less a man
than John Masefield; in whose new hook of
poems, Lolltngdan Downs , along with a lot
of sonnets and other stuff that anybody could
write, is this masterpiece:
Old Kyrlc's son
Said to his father:
“Now, dad, you ha’ done,
I’ll kill yon rather!”
His father clubbed
The girl on the head.
Young Will upped
And shot him dead.
They hanged Will
As Will said;
With one thrill
They choked him dead.
The Master would have left it«at that. The
disciple waters it down with another' 17
verses of explanation. But he will learn
in time VailtageS e^ect ’ on and Rejection
Australian
In The Rally: Sony* jar Patriots, by
George C. Broun and and C'banuinn Brcc-
nanti (George Robertson. Melb-.'), either
George or Char in inn asks us to:
Remember the heroes of A v.xhc Cove,
Who fought and died foi your ikon*'.
When the whole wor-ld Saw, *b rough tfie smoke of
war,
What the Lion’s cubs c all Fame.
There is no reason that this page can dis-
cover for either George or Charruian, or
both, to have d reminde(l ms at all, or to have
bothered to write the more or less correct
but commonplace verse that fills the rest of
the bgoklef.
<A*
According to Butters, Australia Officially
Presents the In Memoriam Wreath of Pari
Kitchener (also, according to him, published
by authority). Space precludes our publish-
ing the whole of this characteristic tribute
from one great man to another: the world
must content itself with Kitchener’s Monu-
ment : *
It stands for Everlast: eternal stands ;
That army raised by him, aye, him alone;
On base basaltic: firm defying- time;
Great Monument, beheld: replying well
To worlds unborn, who grateful shall
Upwrite with pride, We of His Nation, Are.
3
In Will Wynning's opinion “Dunedin’s
girls are great.’’ Also
Dunedin’s girls are pretty girls—
No powder theirs, nor dye;
And khaki boys give each and all
A clinging kiss —“Good-bye” !
Princes Street and Other Otago Rimes
(Stark, Dunedin, M.L., 6d.) is full of girls.
Even the sunlit flappers pacing by (the
blossoms of an ancient stem) cause tottering
men to wonder vvhy time passed so speedily
for them ; and when the snow is on the town-
ship ,and the bush is all a-frown, he sits
alone and thinks alone of the girls who
turned him down. Winning Willie writes
simply but sincerely, and one effort, “The
Answer,” is a fine bit of stately writing, as
will be seen by the first two stanzas: —
Pot for the glamor and the trumpet call,
Nor all the magic of a splendid pride,
Do tee, the sons of Britain, one and all
Go forth to battle in the field and tide!’
Nor yet for dreams of all that might have
been,
Nor yet to mock a hundred trite decrees,
Nor yet to widen still a wide demesne —
No, not for things ephemeral like these!
But there is something that we still can
claim,
A stirring of the heart, a nameless heat
That finds ns fearless of all ends, save shame,
And heedless of all ills save one — defeat!
The call is not to war for war’s vile gain,
And yet the clarion makes weird miseries;
And though our toll be shipwrecks, wounded,
slain.
We fight for peace and honor, yea, for
these!
J*
The Story of the Ansacs (J. Ingram,
Melb.), by some writer who is ashamed to
sign his name—the theory that he is too
modest is untenable since presumably he is
an Australian writer—deals without distinc-
tion with the part taken by the Anzacs on
the outbreak of war till the evacuation of
Gallipoli. There is apparently little that is
n’ew in this history; but the ground is well
covered. Yet the Anzac story that Australia
is waiting for, and probably will have to
wait long for, must be written in more living
language, and by the bloke who has beer
there There is no evidence of this first-hand
knowledge in this conventional publication.
Lhe photographic illustrations are poorly
selected, though luckily there is includes
that historic picture, “The First Roll Call
of the 3rd Brigade after the Great Landing ”
which should ultimately form the basis of ’a
great historical painting by a great Austra-
lian artist. The selection of maps is equallv
insufficient; there should have been a large-
scale folding map of the Peninsula—an ad-
mil able one has been on sale for manv
months, published by 11. E. C. Robinson,
Sydney; and this page has seen some re-
markable photographs, taken from aero-
planes, that give a much clearer impression
of Anzac than the small scale renroduction
from a relief model in this volume. The
general map of the Anzac Area (p. 68)
should have been put into the hands of a
cartographer.
The 31st juryman appeals to the Higher
g° u rt in the ease of the Six Immortals for
the following reasons
demv The Ver, ' iCt "' aS not in accold with evi-
..?• Tl) ? jury were not sufficiently instructed that
eligible rSI^ gra,>hists or annotators were
some of the names they sou^httoimmortaMse^^'''
authoritativelv Ve sueb f ffipientl f numer °us to answer
autnontameiy such a momentous question.
reaso , l . l is an objection to several
of the nominations (disallowed, the objec-
tor s opinion of some of the Immortals bein-
highly explosive and libellous). Yariouf
other contributors also object to the result
and forward us the collection they world
*riL“ote. fy tol ' Sottto *°
The Cinquain
Here is a dainty little verse form. built
by an American poet on a Japanese iaad,.|
First for an example ,V -
XOVKMBEK XIGIIT.
listen,
Uit It joint. dri) sou ml, " ..I*-
Like steps of /msslag ghosts.
The leaves, frost-crisped, break from the trim*
And fall. O
The Japanese parentage is obvious, yet the
cinqoain is not so difficult, since in the
Japanese forms there is still further
compression. Examples of the cinquain are
difficult to find, and the few this page has
seen are so poor in quality that the one
quoted is the best. It is with -the confident
hope that Australian verse-writers will he
able to transmute this trivial form into some-
thing infinitely liner that this page com-
mends the cinquain to its contributors. *
The structure of the cinquain consists of
live lines of iambic feet, though inversion
may take place occasionally, as in the first
line of the quoted example, where its value
will be felt. The first line contains one foot
the second line has two feet, the third line
three, the fourth four, and the fifth line one
Each foot, of course, contains two syllables-
and there is no need of rime. It has been
said of the cinquain that it has the effect
of a ballet-dancer poised on the single toe
pleasing in a way but too exotic to be of
real value. The cinquainist will doubtless
discover that the thought must be led grace-
fully and gradually up to the end of the
fourth line, where fancifully it may be said
the sentiment remains an instant poised on
a dainty toe, thehce sharply and neatly it
regains solid ground. The final figure of the
pirouette may be either .comedy, pathos or
any variety of the grotesque or unexpected.
To give the ballet-dancer a rest it may he
said that the sting of the cinquain is in its
tail. It should be O. Henry in five little
lines.
Half a guinea will be paid for the best,
cinquain received by this page by August &1.
The Patriotic Publishing Company, Cham-
ber of Commerce Buildings, George-street,
Sydney, is a bright young firm. Its glitter-
ing idea is to publish The Commonwealth
Gallery and Register of Australian Herees
of.course, by subscription. In this volume
will be printed the names, biographies, war
records, photos and particulars of every
soldier who has enlisted. In the form sent
out to sign the editor furnishes a poor recom-
mendation for himself by the bad grammar
he uses. Early in the prospectus it is inti-
mated fbat there will probably be half a
million names available for inclusion, for
provision is also made for “responsible ad-
ministrators, ’ etc. And no charge whatever
wul he made for publication of photographs
and synoptical biographies. However, if you
want the book you must immediately sub-
scr.J be an d sign &n order form ; for no copies
will be printed in excess of the number actu-
ally ordered in each such order form, AND
a preliminary payment of £2 11s. 6d.~
whteh is half the price of the publication—
must be made with the order. Thus this bright
firm will be able to pay its way from the
start; and it points out that its labors will
be expensive and arduous, BUT as the
matter vvill have to be continually amplified
and revised, “it obviously follows that the
publishers can only bind themselves to com-
mence delivery of the completed work within
a reasonable time after the date upon which
peace shall have been declared.” The enthu-
siastic post-dated publishers commit them-
selves to the assertion thaf “innumerable
copies have already been ordered.” Such a
record would have an indubitable historic
value; but it is a task that lies within the
province of the Commonwealth Statistical
Department. No private publisher, however
bright, would have the confidence of Aus-
tralians. It is to be hoped that full records
ot every unit in our army are being filed by
the Government for future use. This can be
done without the previous payment of £2
Is. >d. by every dead Billjim’s mother or
widow or by the modest living Billjim him-
“ Uncle Toby”; Brisbane Daily Mail,
commenting on the selected six “foundation
members of Tiie Bulletin’s Republican
Academy of Australasian Jmtters,” remarks,
inter aha In putting Lawson at the head
t the list, the judges must have been going
o l past performances. Lawson’s work is
en <>ugh, and distinctive enough to stand
P sn t fbe w °rk he is doing
■ Wh A ch shows a fa miliar kink in the
upenor Daily Mail’s critical faculty.
Utttt. Dawsons “Armidale” in a recent
ULLETiN has all the old appeal? And why
snoulcin t -past performances” be worth men-
oning. B u t the Mail’s critique is stulti-
ea in the same issue, when some pretty
P, u v erse, “Those Ten Australians,” from
the May English Review is given the lime-
ght with the remark: “It has an Aus-
t ahan interest ” It has. Admire the grace-
ful bouquet "it” throws at the Anzacs
One of them had round eyes like coals,
Irue parson s quarry when he hunts souls,
brawniest made my heart turn queer,
' d m hell would have shunned his
And the tallest and thinnest bore visible
traces
Of his banished grandsire's vanished, graces.


A,
a
No. BX4s.—Hand Mirror,
Electro-plated on Special
Metal, Wreath design, 13/6 ea.
No. BX4I. Hand
M i r i'o r, Electro-
plated on S j) e c ia 1
Me il, Fleur delis de-
sign, 13/6 each.
mi
xM
Sail
i
_ HX-' VyiotliCS
Whisk, Electro-plated
on Special Metal, Fleur
delis design. Length lOin.
9/6 each.
3®
CK
8a47.
THE selection of Dainty Toilet Requisites illustrated on
this page is representative of the immense assort-
ment offered at the New Palace Emporium. Many
other designs are illustrated in the Price List of Popular
Presents. Write for a copy, posted free on request.
Comparison will demonstrate the wonderful economy
assured by Anthony Horderns' Famous Low Prices.
No. BX4U.—Hair
Brush, Electro-
plated on Special
Metal, Engraved
Wreath design,
11/6 each.
11
a
■•sr • .
bshj
'[i! 1 . 1' " l| l |l |i||, '!|i||:i» ~,|, ‘“ , '!:j
jj .
No. 22BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on Special Metal
in S»atlll-lined Case, containing Brush and Comb 23/6
No. BX48 —Hair
Brush, Electro-
plated on Special
Metal, Ribbon
design, 11/6 ea.
No. 238 X Set, Electro-plated <
]V*> + al, in Satin-lined Case, contaii
Mirror and Comb
i Special
ng Bn:sh,
... 42/-
No. 24BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on Special
Metal, in Satin-lined Oase, containing Brush,
Mirror and Comb 42/-
J. ’■
NS
iiji ilMmiihlliluil it
II ||!!
i imi miimii
ill
Gj,', . ifdhst'B . -;,!;ju.„„ 1 'i‘ "(MU* 1, ■«"
!!!!!". !:ll!?!”!!??!!!!!!!12!!!-!l?!!H!!i!!!!i!!MlIllIfii!i
No. 25BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on special metal, in
Satin-lined Case, containing Brush and Comb.. 23/6
h -
8X46.
No. 8X47. —Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Ribbon design, 13/6 each.
No. 8X44. —Hair Brush, Eectro-plated on
Special Metal, Engraved design, 11/6 each.
No. BX43.—Hand Mirror,
Electro-plated on Special
Metal, Engraved design, 13/6 ea.
No. LiX49. Hand
Mirror, Electro-
plated on Snecial
Metal, Oxidised design,
13/6 each.
No. BX36.—C 1 o t h e s
Whisk. Electro-olated
on Special Metal, Oxidised
design. Length, 10in., 9/6 ea.
8X39.
No. BX46.—Hair Brush, Electro-plated °n
Special Metal, Wreath design, 11/6 each.
No. BX39. —Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal Engraved Wreath design, 13/6 each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


w
Rifles and Cartridges
&
c'
“SURE I USE ’EM!
I’ve been usin’ ’em
for a number of
years and expect
to continue to, as
they always do
the business.”
Ask any dyed-in-the-
wool sportsman about
Winchester rifles and
cartridges and that’s
about what he’ll tell you.
They are made in various
sizes for all kinds of
shooting and you’ll get
them if you ask for
!THE BRAND!
,
*.K
“My machine has now
run 3 0,0 00 miles
without any renewals
to engine, except rings
and valve springs.”
A. McCAW, Monkseaton.
That is the kind of service the
Ariel gives; always long and
satis factory .
Art List mailed free.
Ariel Works Ltd.
36 BOURNBROOK, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Agents : TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street,
ADELAIDE: 152 Runale Street.
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street.
Special Offers in Guns & Rifles
TRADE MARK LOOK, SPORTS|vIEN ,
YOUR OOTLAY T oTcaMJ ES A . Ttff “S?? 0 d GUN - CONSIDER
sport for 5/- 100, whereas cartridges will cost vo^ I T^/ ad 1 e no yOU get the same
D.B.M.L. GUN. best ba„e,„. sS. “Lu Pto. “i.
S.B.M.L. GUN. Usual Price. 25/- § ALE PRICE, 40/-
D.8.8.L. DUCK GUN, top action' ’choke" w*" V’' 'j ' ‘ SALE PRICE, 20/-
barrels 6 b ° re> lon f' -distance shooting, 32in.
SPORTING RABBKT RIFLE V.V.V.’.V PRICE" £3/17/6
~ V 10 °-
229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELROI tpmet
SMALL ARMS CO.,
FLAVOUR
a t:
O*
5$
0
6
cs
m
9
H
Quenches Thirst
This is the famous sweetmeat that
the forces in Europe are clamoring for.
It gives long - lasting refreshment.
Millions of bars supplied to the
soldiers and sailors. Vigour, vim
and staying power in every bar.
Two Fine Flavours
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
3d. per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and other stores, or send
three penny stamps for a trial
packet to J. C. Gambles &
Coy, Commerce House,
Melbourne.
mk
&
Sealed Tight
Kept Right
44 After
every meal"
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
HONTSERRjtf
SAUCE
rtSE
§
made from the
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers,
I F a at s S y ;- har S e s you more than 6d. for
fl 6s 6d i oi?^° f send
d(1 - to 214 George Street, Sydney and
it will be posted to you for one year ’ d
n ARE YOU R
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL .
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
hsh, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay)-
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCIvE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
I>i lleiin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice W liitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment: Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
a^r r l° z - of bay rum and a small box
ot Urlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff. — Advt. [2
64
M
CINNAK
u ua'fT.vn at **«--?»•
M
innak
Vou take it
like that—
Cinnak is a pink powder,
which liquefies as soon as it
is placed on the tongue, and
throws off a gas which at
once penetrates the breathing
passages, sterilises the cold
germs, gives immediate relief,
and very quickly cures colds,
sore throats and nasal catarrh.
SEND IT TO THE. BOYS
AT THE FRONT.
It prevents as veil as cures. An occa-
sional dose is an excellent protection against
meningitis, colds, laryngitis, etc.
ALL CHEMISTS SELL CINNAK,
per tube
per tube.
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort.... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not only de-
stroys the craving, the desire, the appetite
for tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids Nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison of Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR. <SL CO>,
Dept, G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4
eut 'W&: (9
wmM.
...
(U-SA-)
Al
wAtawyn
mm j
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POy«TPE(H.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
THE
SOLDIERS’
PEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Nothing contributes more
to secure happy temper in
a child than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby is as happy as
the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with the
youngest babe, is light, easily digested, safe.
Besides, “Mellin’s” is a no-worry food hot
water and fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
As important as
baby’s Food is
baby’s Feeder.
Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle stands
unique; hygienic,
efficient, easily
cleaned.
Mellin’s
Food
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook for Mothers,
“The Care of Infants in Australia,” sent Fret?. Write to-day:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LD., SYDNEY.
Consult the Specialist
TYRE equipment for motor lorries is a science re-
quiring special experience in suiting the tyre to
the work. There is a Firestone Tyre for every
need, made to exact specifications. And the Firestone
Company makes tyres for every road, load and con-
dition of service. Consult us. We will recommend
only the tyre which will keep your lorries in com-
mission and make them do most work in shortest
time at least cost* Call, telephone or write.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing' Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at ati Garages
Writ* for illustrated Literature
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vigil.
Late fires of dusk are swiftly dying down,
The stars are coming soon ;
There rides above the housetops and the
town
A sickle-shred of moon.
Our sister Moon, a sly seductive witch,
Gloats on the world agape—
Morals and moods of mortals, poor and rich,
Changeable as her shape.
Few pungent stories that she doesn’t know,
This cynic dame so slim:
The world she watches is a raree-show
To please her sidling whim.
Yon widow, garbed regardless of expense,
Stalks her economies ;
While down that lane, against a backyard
fence,
Two lovers stand and kiss.
One Raliab (trade and training plainly seen)
Bewails a time of dearth.
Soon will she be (for competition’s keen)
Competed off the earth.
A pallid curate sniffs and slips away.
How sad that such as she
Should smirch a world all swept and gar-
nished—nay,
All sweet with cakes and tea!
The moon, our peering sister, sees it all,
And snickers as she sees.
She sees us sin. She sees us duck and crawl
To dodge the penalties.
She knows what is, and what is yet to be,
And what of old has been;
She cares no whit for midget you and me,
For all our toil and teen.
Hanging above old Babylon she saw
The lemans and the guests
Of that Great King who held the world in
awe,
Who slept between the breasts
Of ladies lovelier than those that gleam
A-down the woodland ways
Of Dream, bedecked (as fitting ’tis in dream)
With pearls and chrysoprase.
The soldier-boy who yearned against the
fence
And kissed the girl has now
Been, by some other quest or vow, called
hence.
What matter, anyhow?
The widow, halted by the gutter’s edge,
Discloses some meek plan
To one to whom, maybe, her heart’s in
pledge—
I think an alderman.
Two souls well-soaked are fain to cross the
street,
But wave and vacillate
In the coy breeze of evening cool and sweet.
One croons of Bess; one, Kate.
Your souls in wine are ever souls in love,
A-hungered for a boon.
No toper he who snared that dame above,
The simpering, wanton Moon.
She found him in a glade. He was asleep.
She waked and kissed him too ;
But still some reputation seems to keep,
As other humbugs do.
Tbe fires of dusk have died completely down.
The virtues are a-5w00n....
See! winking o’er the scandals of the town,
That naughty jade, the Moon!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Adventure.
The world is charted out from Pole to Pole,
Measured and docketed and filed away;
And old Adventure, portly grown and grey,
Sits in his office. But his fiery soul
Yearns for the magic seas that used to roll,
The dragon-terrors that were once to slay,
The perilous journeys past the rim of day
In joyous quest of some forbidden goal.
Yet there remains to him one land untrod,
One venture beckoning still, one keen sur-
mise
To fan the wanderlust and fire his eyes,
To spur his pulses and to rouse his breath,
One vision still to stir his rover-blood :
The panorama from the peaks of Death.
MAORILAND.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
Helen.
Upon a bank of violets and thyme
Stirred by the Summer moon’s slim finger-
tips,
Helen and Paris couched, lips close on lips,
In ecstasy that pealed a silver chime
Throughout the night, while young buds burst
to flow’r,
And water-lilies shimmered golden flame
Upon a lake where scarce a ripple came,
And blue moths fluttered through the love-lit
hour....
What time the dawning flashed with rosy joy
His first shaft through the east, and rent
the dreams
That nightly drew her heart with lilac cord
Back to the sunshine and low hills of Troy,
Helen shook loose her hair and through
its gleams
Smiled over Menelaus, her stre-- i™*
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


PERDRIAU RUBBER HObE
m
RUBBER BELTING.
The largest endless rubber conveyor belt
ever manufactured in the world was made
by us, and is now in use at the N.S.W.
Government’s coal-loading plant at Port
Kembla.
We can supply belts for high-power driv-
ing, and during manufacture the cotton,
duck is subjected to an even strain
throughout its entire length, which re-
duces stretch when in use to a minimum.
FOR ALL PURPOSES
If you require Hose for Steam, Suction, Gas.
Water, Divers, Air Drills, Fire, Dredge Sleeves,
Pneumatic Tools, Vacuum Cleaning, Chemicals,
or for any other use whatever, we can fulfil your
requirements.
Our Factory is thoroughly equipped with all the
latest and most up-to-date machinery and is capable
of turning out any special lines at short notice.
As actual manufacturers we invite enquiries from
Engineers, Industrial Manufacturers and Produc-
ing Corporations for any Special Hose or other
Rubber Goods, and will be pleased to furnish
samples and estimates on request.
ENGINE PACKING AND JOINTINGS.
We manufacture a number of very high-
grade packings and jointings suitable for
all types of engines.
We can supply you with packings to
withstand the action of oils and grease,
and the various chemicals usually so
detrimental to anything that oontains
rubber. For high pressures you can rely
upon Perdriau Packings to see you
through.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, NEWCASTLE, PERTH.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENVER
PRICES
Single Elastic Truss, 20/-
Double Elastic Truss, 27/6
.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
“PLUME” is
justly famed
for its power—
for the speed it
produces —for
its on-the-dot
“pick-up.”
You cannot fill
your tank with
a more “live”
spirit.
“PLUME” gives
you more miles
to the gallon
and insures a
clean cylinder.
In future don’t
ask for “juice,”
say “PLUME.”
ft
■ i
%
1
Sc
*
Vh/t,
t
PLUM
HO t I
1
I'pmm ||
E nj-uu
“PLUME” insures
easy startin
sweet runnin
more miles.
bC fcO
“DLUME” is not
a mixture of
various grades
and gravities of
gasolene. Every
ga 11 o n—e very
D R O P —is the
same throughout,
and the Spirit
reaches your Car-
buretor in the
same pure, homo-
geneous form it
leaves our Re-
finery.
It’s the CLEAN
Spirit.
All Garages Sell
It.
PR 4
Vacuum Oif Co. Ply Lfd.
pq/?'-
'Ok
A Nimble Tyre
and Strong.
GOODRICH
FULL-SIZED
Never sold “by the pound.'’
Never sold by the layer— or on' “Thickness” (which
means stiffness).
Always sold on its true Pneumatic Tyre performance.
Sold on the Quality of its materials —not on their mere
quantity.
Alight-footed, Springy, Quick-adting Tyre which yields
to sharp obstacles on the road that would cut into stiffer,
thicker, shorter-lived tyres.
Made with a flexible Backbone—that Mileage-adding
Safety Tread which promptly checks side skid and
forwaid skid, without the use of such unabridged pro-
jections as would separate Fabric layers through uneven
pressure and vibration.
AND-made FULL-SIZE to the branded size thereon,
which comparison with other makes will show.
DUVAL (a CO.
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE,
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY,
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., ADELAIDE; A. C. MacCALLUM, PERTH ;
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.— N0. PJ34.
THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1917.
Price 6d.
THE GERMAN PLEA OF BROTHERHOOD.
HUN SOCIAL DEMOCRAT: “The hand of friendship, Brother!”
DEMOCRACY: “Never! Your hand is just as dirty as your Master’s!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the AA'hite Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mostnan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
i mu urn.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor u ill carefully read, and, where practic-
able. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AA'hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Loudon,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.—A 7 . Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
, Ceylon. —IT. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
olombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2 Yd.:
Woz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
ffuTjßiiZZeZztfi.
THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1917.
“SINN FEIN.”
The Sinn Fein movement in Ireland, which
last year made martyrs and now makes mem-
bers of Parliament, has a force and signifi-
cance which, far from being confined to one
northern island, is world-wide in its sweep.
Though the words are Irish their meaning
has gained a firm grip on all the peoples.
“Ourselves alone” is practically the watch-
word of every nation of men worthy of the
name; and the “rights of small nations” for
which the tremendous Allied forces bleed and
battle is the practical acknowledgment of
the principle behind that watchword on the
part of the peoples that have been touched
by natural democratic evolution. Sinn Fein
is the hope and desire of Belgium, of Servia,
of Montenegro, of Bohemia, of Poland, and
probably of the renovated and reawakened
Greece that now shouts gladly for \rENiZE-
eos where it lately yelled under compulsion
for Constantine. The expected breaking
of China will be the response of Orientalism
to the Sinn Fein feeling moving through the
vast mass of smiling, long-suffering Asiatic
humanity. In fact, every big movement of
the time that seems to possess anything in
the way of decent purpose is at heart a Sinn
Fein movement. For Sinn Fein the war is
being fought; for Sinn Fein peace will be
made; and if it is a good Sinn Fein that will
stick and remember its own purpose, the
world is going to get a great lift forward
because of it. The evolution of such an idea
was inevitable. The first associations of
men were for mutual protection. Any sort
of union or amalgamation of tribes and races
with diverse feelings and interests was to be
tolerated as long as it meant safety. The
dominant interest of keeping alive out-
weighed everything else; and the worst
ordinary despotism was a mere circumstance
compared with a split throat and a burnt
homestead. But as promiscuous throat-cut-
ting decayed, the artificial amalgamations of
men were no longer necessary, though, as
they kept kings and statesmen in jobs, new
excuses had to be found for them on com-
mercial and economic grounds. Empires of
trade were advocated instead of empires of
force; but no heed was given to the different
make and shape of the racial soul. The idea
that all men were vats escaping from a trap
of some sort lay behind the notions govern-
ing international politics, varied occasionally
by the idea of all men as rats trying to get
through the largest hole into the world’s
wheat store. Never did it seem to occur to
anybody in power that a German could not
think as a Slav thinks or an Englishman get
the viewpoint of a Celt; and that, conse-
quently, a German could not govern a Slav
to the real advantage of both, or an English-
man guide the destinies of a Celtic people by
the rules that were good in Sussex or East
Anglia. Now the universal uproar of a
great war has blown away a thousand
obscuring non-essentials of human govern-
ment, and as the dust begins to settle it
becomes clearer that nationality is about the
one thing that really does count. The unity
of mankind which religions have taught and
poets dreamed of is to be reached by no
artificial methods or shortcuts of statecraft,
but by the recognition of the claims of the
racial units in the human family, and by
giving them free play to develop their in-
herent decency. The State can only advance
by the development of its individual citi-
zens; the world can only advance by the
development of its individual race families.
All the artificial things that hinder this are
inimical to progress. A traction-engine, a
bullock, an Arab horse and an Eskimo dog
would make a poor team to draw a coach,
however well constructed the traces and
harness might be. But each can do some
strenuous pulling of its own ; and the road is
broad enough for them all to run abreast,
each with a separate vehicle in tow.
On all evidences, the next stage in world-
development will involve a splitting up and
dividing in order that the larger unity of
mankind may rest on a sure foundation. The
rights of small peoples necessarily make this
imperative. Belgium, Servia and Monte-
negro have already tasted the freedom which
is to be restored to them by force of arms ;
but the rights of Servia are no more im-
portant than the rights of Ireland, nor can
those of Belgium take precedence of Bohe-
mian claims. Hitherto the small Xtate has
been regarded as an international danger
because its existence was a perpetual temp-
tation to the big milita y power next door :
but with the destruction of militarism this
danger ceases, and small Xtate and big come
together under one universal internnti mil
police control. The small man was probably
once a menace to the tribe owing to the
temptation to the big man to kill him and
collar his possessions, and thus disturb the
balance of power: but mankind advanced
beyond the idea of stealing things by force
merely because they were easy to steal. Trade
rivalries there must still be, and the greater
productivity of one tract of country may
cause it to flourish while another tract re-
mains comparatively poor; but it has yet to
be shown that any inhabited portion of the
globe under the settled and responsible gov-
ernment of its own people, who best under-
stand it, is too poor to create wealth beyond
anything that has yet been produced in the
earth’s favored regions. This is the real
economic aspect of world settlement; and
wdiile it remains and intensive culture and
close-linked industry are possible, the idea of
huge artificial combines for economic reasons
may well be put out of court. The machine
must always be a dead thing until it is ani-
mated by a real spirit of popular enthusi-
asm, and the cry for Xinn Fein is really a
cry for dynamic force to get the beM
national results out of the great busings- • f
living. It is a cry for decentralisation in it<
best form —a pleading of neglected and over-
governed peoples to be allowed to get to
work.
Australia has not yet felt the impulse of
the Xinn Fein movement, and in a sense
cannot feel it racially except in as far as her
people are intolerant of interference fro n
overseas; but a force sufficiently like it to
easily wear the same name is bound to
gather head if we are ever to get out of our
present confusion and step into a larger
place. Our Xtates—mere artificial divisions
of the continent —are coming to be regarded
as the absurdities they are; but our central
Federal Government is almost equally
scorned. The fact is that in emphasising
the solidarity of the whole Commonwealth
we have strangely forgotten the district
units that make up that Commonwealth.
Those units are not the States, but natural
divisions with natural community of in-
terests, some of immense area, some very
small, but all in some sense self-contained.
As a people in the course of years develop
with their environment, there will in the
ages to come be racial distinctions also
between the dwellers in one part of the con-
tinent and those in another —distinctions
that are both natural and on the whole
advantageous to Australia. Just as Ireland
turned the Norman Raymonds and De
Burghs into thoroughly Irish Redmonds
and Burkes, so Northern Queensland will
take any kind of white man’s family and
make it clearly and unmistakably her own.
Tasmania will do the same; so will the
broad lands west of the Darling and the
Northern Rivers of N. S. Wales. There will
be many varieties of the Australian race,
though all may continue to preserve some-
thing in common. Not anticipating this,
however, but merely with a view to the con-
tinent’s best development, a large measure
of Sinn Fein is needed. Let us have the
central Federal Government by all means—a
broadly representative Parliament and Execu-
tive with wide functions and very little power
of local interference; but let the division of
the country be on the sane plan of com-
munity of interests without respect to terri-
torial area. In a word, let us have com-
plete decentralisation—the only decentralisa-
tion that can mean any thing*—by establish-
ing many self-governing provinces, each with
a sufficient measure of Sinn Fein to enable
it to get at the job that needs doing without
waste of time, or energy. The idea that
the centralisation of the continent might be
a good thing has been wholly exploded by
the conduct of Federal affairs since the Com-
monwealth came into being; while the notion
that the artificial State boundaries make for
uiy sort of efficiency of government has
been thoroughly dead for some time. The
talk of elaborating the machinery of
an ! d more while that machine
centralisation loses most of its motive
power, is equally futile. Enthusiasts point
to Switzerland as an example of the triumph
of the machine of popular government; but
in doing so they leave out the chief factor
in the Swiss success. The democratic co -
trivances in that country are good enoug ,
but the national success is rooted an
grounded on the cantonal system, by whicn
each natural division of the .country enjoys the
largest possible measure of local legislative
freedom. Thus, in Uri—the father State of
free Switzerland, where William Tell fired
off the arrow- —the people coihe out and make
their own laws exactly as they did hundreds
of years ago. And Uri w r ould be lost sight
of territorially in an Australian sheep-run.
It is Swiss Sinn Fein rather than the
shape of the central ballot-box that accounts
for the triumph of democracy there; or. to
put it another way, it is the local freedom
of legislation that makes the fine general
democratic spirit possible. Uri does as Uri
wants to do; and. therefore,. Uri gives the
staunchest and most intelligent vote to help
along the" United Switzerland That permits
it to do so.-. But centralise Switzerland as
Australia is centralised in a big town or two.
and all the referenda and preferential voting
that could be devised would not save
the democracy there from a mess like our
own. In the w 7 orld-movement towards Sinn
Fein Australia cannot stand out. By "our-
selves alone” can we be saved : and. getting
down to bedrock fact, “ourselves alone” can
only operate effectively in the comparatively
small sphere where there is complete com-
munity of interest. The ideal of an undi-
vided continent will only be realised w 7 hen
each part of the continent is working its own
share of the thing to the full advantage
which only a fair measure of Sinn Fein can
give.
THE WAY OF THE FISHERMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The grey seas were ruffled into rippling
columns, which eddied and broke, swelled
and broke again. Under the sombre mono-
chrome of sky—rr"y like the sea—a million
gleaming forms threshed through the troubled
waters, a million fins ploughed a passage
across the shallows of the Barrier. The deep,
sonorous blast as the fish, coming to the sur-
face, gulped in the necessary air, proclaimed
the sea-tailer. Groping through the torrid
seas they were seeking an outlet of the
Barrier to harry lesser fins. The sea-tailer
is a scavenger and fighter combined. Hang-
ing on to the flanks of a bluenose shark he
awaits the kill and the subsequent banquet.
But when the Arctic flow entices the killer
further north, the gaunt tarpon collect in
schools, and, raiding the smaller fry, eke out
a scanty subsistence until the return of their
benefactors.
The trail of foam eddying in the wake of
the school startled the wheeling gulls. It
also attracted the attention of the look-out
on the fishing smack Rosetta.
In the crow’s-nest, Scotty, glass focussed
on a patch of w 7 ater glinting a league away,
roused himself and called to the deck-hands
below. 1 hey tumbled up, growLng and curs-
ing at being disturbed from their midday
sleep, but eager withal. For days they hail
been waiting, close-hauled in the shoals of
sandspit and islet, for a tin to show; and
now, when the look-out reported that a shoal
of fish were approaching, the bunks were
precipitately abandoned and all hands
burned aft —a motley ship’s complement
gathered from the seven seas. A swarthy
Greek from lonian ports rubbed shoulders
with a fair-inured Saxon- —he was out of the
Bristol fisheries. Deep-sea toilers these, for
a fisherman who flouts storm and tempest to
gain a catch may well be associated with the
bummer-jacks.
A squat form reeled from the shelter of the
cuddy, crossed tween decks and brought up
panting at the railings. There was a note
of authority in the newcomer's voice as he
hailed the look-out.
‘What do y’ make of them, you aloft?
Ferguson, you’ve a good pair of eyes—-
mount the ratlines and have a peep.”
But Ferguson’s assistance was not
needed. Scotty, after a long scrutiny
through the glass, told his own tale.
school of sea-tailer, Cap’n,” he called.
“They’re coming this way, and should pass
light across our bows. It’s a big mob
collecting for a raid, I think.”
A cheer was raised, for sea-tailer is a
marketable fish and easily captured. Assum-
ing command the skipper took the wheel,
whistled for a wind that failed to come, and
concentrated his attention on the impending
struggle. &
The approaching horde were visible from
bulwarks now, a seething wall of water
lifting up in their wake. Under the propul-
sion of the heavy oars the fishing-smack
steered out to intercept the prey. Usually
m deep-sea fishing the nets are lowered in the
form of a circle to enclose the spoil. The
skipper, judging the distance between him-
self and the oncoming fish, waited calmlv for
the moment to strike.
No one spoke; tense silence had succeeded
the busy hum of speculation. Only Fer-
guson the mate, at a sign from the skipper,
issued a brief command.
“ Cl . ear tbe stern-falls!” he ordered.
Stroke oars stand by.”
Two of the rowers shipped blades, and,
raising the buoy attached to the nets, pre-
pared to cast it at a further command.
«mnHifa^ ong . Pr ° CeSsion of gaming silver,
scintillating to green and gold beneath the
sun ‘ a th^/ Cho °} thre shed in. Eddies suc-
ceeded eddies; leaping, playful forms leaped
anew; the whole expanse of ocean was
broken into ripples.
Signalling to the crew\ the skipper threw
up the wheel and as the smack fell awav the
nets were lowered in the heavy rollers to
tail out a bobbing line astern. The arduous
struggle had begun. With muscles outstand-
ing and a fierce, exulting heart in each
breast, the spoilers bent to the oar, for now 7
the fish were dividing, and it would be a
question of speed if they were to be all
en f lathTI ath T after fathom of line ran
s ? ft ’ . su rgmg of greased rollers
to link up the barrier astern
The wooden trestles rattled and hissed
hung for a moment, and a tangle of rope
drifted out. The hitch, though slight, neces-
sitated a stoppage for the runner-out to clear
the falls. Ferguson fumed at the delay.
Already the netted fish were endeavoring to
escape; long, gleaming forms disappeared in
a smother of spray ahead and around the
craft. Mis language as he bullied and threat-
ened was interlarded with nautical oaths
and curses. But the falls had been cleared,
and the delinquent runner-out, standing by.
paid out with an assiduity which betokened
his respect for Ferguson. Only a cable’s
length to run and the shoot so zealously
planned vcould be ended.
On the half-deck the skipper, eyes intent
on the nets droning musically over the stern-
sheets, watched and waited while the voice
of the runner-out checking the length
of the diminishing nets came to his ears.
This is a necessary precaution, for a
steersman may “overshoot,” i.e., his length
of net may run out before the circle is
established. And that would mean the loss
of the haul.
“Rink one —link two.” ~ ~
There were 10 lengths or links in the net,
and the skipper knew that two lengths had
gone through the falls. As yet there was no
imminent danger of an overshoot.
“Two —three —four.”
The heavy oars, deftly feathered, were
dragging a little now. In the maelstrom of
waters created by the fleeing school, the fish-
ing smack pitched heavily, tossed, rolled. A
cascade of waters, lifted up by the dipping
forefoot, washed along the decks, threaten-
ing to extinguish the galley fires.
Excitement was hot during the final move.
As the Rosetta swung round in answer to
the helm the last links of the net crossed the
riding-buoy, effectually enclosing the haul.
The shoot was ended.
Only in time. too. Ferguson, going aft
on the completion of his task, saw the line
of mesh lift with the impact of the impris-
oned fish vainly endeavoring to escape.
Panic-stricken they rushed hither and
thither to discover an opening into the sea.
But the net was always there. One or two
leaped high, like shooting pencils of silver,
and. evading the snare, floated out into the
freedom of charging seas and breakers. One
or two —that was all. With the bobbing line
of net slowly hemming them in. the confu-
sion of the victims increased ; the water was
flecked with flying sheets of spume, and the
constant splash and flapping as the mesh
enclosed another victim mingled with the
growl of the shoreward rollers.
Evening found the crew of the Rosetta
busy on the lines. Across the black water
torches flickered and flared, and the eerie
shadows of night crept up. Hands groped
in the feeble torchlight, groped for the nets
and the spoil therein. Fathom after
fathom of mesh trailed in over the rollers,
spilling its splashing freight into the holds.
Arms blistered with the rough friction of
the ropes, but. seemingly unconscious of the
pain, the fishers toiled.
Skipper and mate, both clad in oilies and
heavily booted, worked with the crew 7 , for on
a fishing-smack rank is disregarded when a
shoot is in progress. To the mournful
accompaniment of the creaking rollers and
the swish-swish of the rising tides the net
and its heavy burden w T as dravm in.
It was the runner-out who first observed
the riding-buoy at the end of the surging
lines. His joyful shout drew sighs of relief
from all hands. The buoy was passed in.
the end lines—glad spectacle to a fisherman
—following. The most interested in the
catch crowded round the hold to inspect the
gasping silver horde within.
An experienced man can tell at a glance
the extent of a catch. “Five ton if there’s a
pound,” was a bearded toiler’s comment, and
a subsequent tally showed that he was
right.
Skipper and mate, exuberant, retired to
the cuddy to discuss a tot of rum and the
market quotations for sea-tailer. As for the
crew, the nets housed and mended, they clus-
tered in the shelter of the poop to sleep till
dawn.
* * * *
Out of the yellow loom of fog the sun
crept, up and found them wearily patrolling
the deep-sea grounds in quest of further
spoil.
E. W. DEBENHAM.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Invitation to Damn the Cost, Anyway.
Fusion, talking through the mouth of Mil-
len, has produced its scheme of Repatria-
tion ; and as The Bulletin expected, the
thing commences long after the start and
closes up suddenly before it reaches the end.
a. he scheme contemplates the creation of
comprehensive. _ administrative machinery
(with the politician well in evidence), the
appointment of consultative central Boards
and local committees, the establishment of
workshops, sanatoria and hostels, co-oper-
ation with . manufacturers and others to
secure the industrial training of men and
the completion of interrupted apprentice-
ship. It is further in contemplation to settle
soldiers on land, provide them with ad-
vances, guarantee them minimum prices for
their produce and market it, arrange estab-
lishments for slaughtering hogs and inaugu-
rate systems of reserve employment. All
this, of course, looks well: but there is a
practical side to it, and Tiie Bulletin is
compelled to say that until this is produced
fi scl ’£ me can be regarded as nothing better
than the cumbersome invention of carrot-
wa.ying politicians who are afraid to face
their difficulties. The crux of the business is
the rash. How is the scheme going to be
financed . Millen, when questioned on the
subject, cheerfully announced: ‘‘l am not
concerned with finance at this juncture.” As
his estnnate of the sum required for land
settlement is a mere £60.000.000, and as
there are. clearly huge additional amounts
lnvohod in other directions, this is cer-
tainly a novel proclamation to make. If
also.seems fairly cheeky; and it makes dis-
cussion of Millen’s scheme futile. This.
owever, can be said with confidence —
u the Commonwealth and States embarlf


upon an undertaking involving tens of mil-
lions of pounds without knowing where the
money is, or, at best, trusting to luck to
stagger along from month to month, the sub-
sequent proceedings will be very interesting,
'
While Some Men Die.
E\ery nation in the war now raging is being
economically bled. In every one of them
there are men to whom the war has brought
riches. W ith these they lay the foundation
of more wealth by lending to their country
in its agony,. so that the common herd may
have the privilege of paying them tribute and
unborn generations live to curse the servility
and cupidity of their fathers. What is the
place of these spiders in the social
scheme? They are a curse, a menace. The
•people carry them on their backs and fight
the enemy at the same moment, and continue
the dreary job until death relieves them.
M herefore men raise a wild, unpractical
howl for the “conscription of wealth,” only
understanding, in a dull sort of way, what
they want and being hopelessly bewildered
about how to get it. They are really in
rebellion against their exploitation, not
against “wealth.” It is because they want
wealth and cannot get it—because the spiders
and parasites take possession of the national
earnings—that they are in revolt. And they
are right to be so. Parliaments fail abjectly
in their duty where they allow this horrible
evasion of citizenship to continue. A tit
man who will not tight for his country is
dodging a sacred duty. But, by comparison,
one who has not only kept his body in a safe
place, but has also stuffed his pockets, is
contemptible—almost as contemptible as the
public authority which allows him to go on
doing it. War is bringing a heavy burden
of personal woe and national embarrassment.
The mass of the people are already greatly
poorer; for although for the moment a per-
centage of the population may be earning
more than before, the majority find the pur-
chasing power of their incomes rapidly
shrinking. They are paying for the war—
making profits for the**: who. by getting
richer, are making the poor poorer and the
nation weaker. No gabble about supply and
demand can alter either the fact or the
abomination of it. Not all the blither on
earth about “equality of sacrifice” can make
equality where none exists, or make the sur-
render of affluence acquired while other men
are dying a sacrificial act. A man who is
no poorer because of the war is a chartered
shirker, and it matters nothing whether he is
hanging on to “war profits” or any other
profits.
The National Pantry and Prices.
Once more there is a yell for cheap wheat
and cheap meat, with an incidental demand
upon the Government to “step in and fix
prices.” The answer to it is that the
Government has stepped in and fixed
prices, and that the people of Aus-
tralia are getting both wheat and meat
cheaper than the people in any other part of
the world, and the producers of that wheat
and meat are getting substantially less also.
Under the Wheat Pool, prices of wheat are
fixed. Under the schemes by which various
Governments have made huge purchases of
meat, prices are nominally fixed for the
locally-consumed chop also. What seems to
be demanded by the people who are asking
for cheaper bread and steak and food for
the suburban rooster is that the prices shall
be pared down —that the fixing shall be done
with charitable feelings towards the purse
and appetite of the local citizen. The speci-
ous argument, after a prelude about “famine
prices,” is put this way :
Here in Australia are large quantities of wheat
and plentiful supplies of meat. The mice are
devouring the wheat, yet if a citizen wants any
he has to pay a high price for it. Why should not
the citizen be able to buy cheaply the wheat that
is rotting and the mouse is multiplying on ? There
are no ships to take the meat away. Why cannot
the Government order that the meat which is not
being exported shall be sold at cheap rates? The
country is bursting with food, yet the public finds
difficulty in getting enough.
As criticism of a mad social system this is
all very well. As a statement of the case for
cheapness it is hopelessly infertile. The
consequence of disposing of wheat in Aus-
tralia at, say, 2s. 6d. a bushel would be a
reduction in the earnings of the man who
grew it; and Heaven knows these are small
enough already. The mice would not eat an
ounce less. The meat problem is on much
the same plane. If bullocks and sheep are
taken from a grower and distributed at bar-
gain prices to the local population, that indi-
vidual is going to suffer in the pocket. There
are some cockies and some pastoralists
whom this would not injure very much, but
there are others who would merely be
assisted into bankruptcy. It is quite con-
ceivable that the country might organise a
system under which every individual growing
wheat or meat would pass over a percentage
of his produce every year to a National Grub
Department charged with the job of dis-
tributing it to the public at rates which
would stabilise the calculations made by
Iynibbs. This would, of course, demand
an organisation and readjustment of
taxation and other things which can-
not be arranged in five minutes. What
is not conceivable is that any authority
which does not control production can
fix prices without making a ipess some-
where, or that the prices of wheat and meat
can be “cheapened” in Australia to-day by
the order of politicians without inflicting a
gross injustice upon the grower. The yell
for cheapness is one for low wages for the
people who provide the public with refresh-
ments ; and for yells of that sort, or for
cheapness in any of its forms, this paper has
no time. Anyway, it knows of no reason why
a farmer should have his wages reduced in
order that a carpenter’s wages may be worth
more. It is well within the region of possi-
bility that the German submarine may create
conditions making wheat and meat in Aus-
tralia worth 2d. a barrowload. That would
be a tragedy, however, not only for the pro-
ducer but for the nation, and tuppences
aiight then be as hard for the consumer to
bud as shillings are now. Whereupon there
would probably be a cry for free wheat and
free beef, and great amazement to find that
after the first meal the pantry was empty.
This paper has a profound mistrust of the
price-fixer and all his works. If Govern-
ments are going to provide foodstuffs the
material should either be produced at
national farms or directly acquired on a
plain, business-like system. To start howl-
ing that there are heaps of sustenance about
and rushing it with open hands is piracy and
lunacy. The indisputable facts of the
moment are that Australians have a cheaper
meal than most other people ; that less than
any other people on earth should they yearn
for a fall in the price of their produce; and
that if the torpedo intervenes decisively
they will have food as cheap as dirt and a
disaster of incalculable magnitude to flavor
it with.
Should the Attorney-General be Chained
Up?
N.S.W. Attorney-General D. It. Hall
in his defence :-
The Bulletin rather savagely suggests that I
should be chained up because I have dared to doubt
the propriety of the Prime Minister re-opening the
Conscription contest. May I re-state the position?
On March 27, 1917, Mr. Hughes said, in his policy
speech at Bendigo, that he would not attempt to in-
troduce Conscription by either regulation or statute
during the life of the forthcoming Parliament. But,
if the national safety demanded it, he would again
submit the matter to the people.
In his speech at the Sydney Town Hall on April
4, 1917, he said:—•
We pledge ourselves in this forthcoming Parlia-
ment not to attempt to introduce Conscription either
by regulation or statute. We shall not attempt to
sneak in Conscription behind the backs of the people.
Only if the circumstances of the nation—of the
Empire—demand it shall we again put the question
to the people. If a great reverse should send the
Empire reeling are we to do nothing? If the very
foundations of our national being are endangered are
we to sit supine? Mr. Tudor says he will not accept
our pledge. Well, let me now ask him what he pro-
poses to do in the case of such a contingency as that
to which I have referred. If the great fleet which
now protects these favored shores be defeated : if a
great land victory gained by the Germans shall send
the allied forces reeling; if the dagger of the Hun
shall pierce the armor of the Empire, will Mr.
Tudor do nothing?
On these unequivocal statements he and his party
went to the election and were returned to power.
Does The Bulletin suggest that it is open to the
Prime Minister, who has definitely stated that only
on certain conditions would he re-open the con-
troversy, to take that course when not one of those
conditions exists? If so, I —and I think the majority
of the people^—beg to differ. A public man is as
much bound by his solemn promise as any other man
of honor.
Apart from the Prime Minister’s promise, surely
it is clearly unwise to take another referendum. On
the last occasion Australia turned down the Con-
scription proposal by 72,478 votes. Nothing has
happened to make the great bulk of the decent and
loyal citizens, who comprise portion of the
majority, change their minds, and certainly if this
loyal section would vote “No,” those whose "No”
was inspired by disloyalty or by personal fear have
meantime become possessed neither of loyal senti-
ments nor of courageous hearts.
It is, of course, impossible to foretell accurately
the future: one can only hazard an opinion. If the
question of Conscription should be really submitted
again I should, of course, vote and speak in favor ;
but I think the people of Australia would turn it
down on this occasion as they did on the last. We
should have a consequent waste of the tens of thou-
sands of pounds which it would cost to take the
vote. The very best that could be hoped for would
be a win by a narrow majority. In the past the
minority has been taught to submit to the majority.
When it comes to a matter of life and death —which
Conscription involves —it is difficult to accurately
forecast the troubles which would arise in forcing
such a system upon a large minority.
The military authorities tell us that we want
7600 recruits per month. This is generally thought
to be an outside estimate. We are raising 4500 per
month. Under Conscription we would send the full
number required. Under voluntaryism we fall short
at the rate of 30,000 a year. I don’t believe that it
is worth while risking the uncertainty of a contest
and branding the Prime Minister as a man upon
whose word not the slightest reliance can be placed
for the very shadowy possibility of our being able to
throw another 30,000 men into Europe by this time
next year. Our 30.000 men are not likely to prove
the determining factor in a contest where millions of
men are involved, and, this being the case, it would,
in my judgment, be unwise to risk another referen-
dum.
All of which is quite beside the matter on
which this paper had a few remarks to make
to its learned friend recently. What it com-
plained of was that he was making speeches
prejudicial to recruiting. In supplying
Hughes with reasons why he should not
take another vote on Conscription, this
alleged Conscriptionist supplied the shirker
with excuses for not enlisting. And he did
it merely to gain a few miserable votes. This
paper, on reconsidering the matter, and in
view of the increasingly urgent demand for
recruits, is amazed at its mildness in merely
suggesting that Mr. Hall should be chained
up till Holman’s return. It thinks now
that Holman's return should make no dif-
ference.
*
The Armies that Stayed Away.
The fact that repatriation means more than
the delivery of a few windy speeches by
win-the-war patriots is forced home rather
fiercely by the large historical fact that
many of the world’s big armies on foreign
service never came home at all. The Gauls,
who invaded Greece and smashed things as
the Persian with an empire behind him
never succeeded in doing, passed on into Asia
Minor and stuck fast. Beyond the Danube
there were people in office talking about
repatriation for years, or even for centuries,
and no doubt a few of the sick and wounded
got home in the earlier days of the cam-
paign; but the great mass of the army
stayed close to the ancient family domains
of the Angora goat, in the region where the
present Oonstantinople-Bagdad railway
stops short to look at a mountain range
which fortunately it hadn’t punctured be-
fore the war began. Another army that
failed for want of shipping facilities or
organising capacity to get back home was
the one raised in Britain in the latter days
of Roman rule to press the claims of an
outsider to the imperial purple. The yarn
goes that on its backward march it followed
the land as far as it could, but being unable
to swim the narrow seas sat down perma-
nently in Armorica and gave the name of
Brittany to that ragged corner of France.
In very modern times an Irish legion took
to brigandage in the Italian hills because
there was no other way in which it could
get a living; and on present appearances an
Australian army corps might easily get lost
in France and forgotten until its sweetheart
was old and grey. At any rate, on all the
evidence, a very great deal more than talk
is required to place the big bulk of our Aus-
tralian soldiers once more on Australian
soil. Our troops are not enlisted for per-
petual service, and their right to terminate
their engagement might easily occur before
one-tenth of them have been placed on board
ship. Yet when the thousand home-coming
anchors rattle down in Australian ports, if
they ever do so, the greater trouble'will be-
gin. That it can be. overcome is no doubt
true. Two things properly done would
place every returned soldier in a useful job
either in industrial life or in the wider open
spaces. One is the right handling of the
Northern Territory: the other a real tariff
which would give Protection to Australian
industries. The first would add a new State
to the Commonwealth with all scope for the
high adventure which accompanies the con-
quest of a new realm ; the second would cre-
ate a demand for as much labor as could be
obtained from any source. At present, how-
ever, the parochial ideas of those who are
earnest about the problem seem confined to
the erection of a four-roomed cottage on a
vacant suburban plot, while the imperial
notions of the others soar into words and
more words and a speech on the top of that.
So there remain two large probabilities. One
is of a place called Australia somewnere in
Europe or on the road home across Asia,
which would represent in future history
the best effort of the soldier to repatriate
himself; the other is a huge commotion in
Australia itself with Billjim looking for
bread-and-butter in his own fashion and
tossing politicians out of the road in his
angry haste. Either way the prospect is less
pleasant than the application of a little
ordinary horsesense to a plain problem.
—— *
The prolonged negotiations between
Hughes and Labor about shipbuilding had
one interesting feature. The negotiations
were declared to be necessary in order that
an arrangement might be made to ensure
continuity of work. “Unless co-operation of
labor is secured we shall not go on with this
great national work,” said Hughes. “It
would be futile to do 50.... Without con-
tinuity of work we would be building on
quicksands.” Shipbuilding is only one of a
thousand industries Australia should have;
yet it is said by the Government that if the
building of ships were entered upon without
a change from those conditions which exist-
ing industries have to meet and which later
ones may have to endure, the result would
be chaos. If this means anything at all it is
that under prevailing conditions no indus-
trial progress can be looked for. There are
quite a lot of people who have been thinking
this for a long while. What a stinging com-
mentary on the government of the country
it all amounts to!
*
Let P.M.G. Webster have his say:—
I repeat what my statement set out —that the
charge is untrue so far as the Postal Department is
concerned. Last week The Bulletin dropped from
£10,167,125 to £1,854,271. Even the latter is
not correct, as such is included in the larger amount
against which the Department has built up realisable
assets valued at £11,000,000.
Your last paragraph, inferring that, by securing
for my electorate as a private member as efficient
services as possible, I did so to bribe them for their
votes, is unworthy, and condemns me for doing as
a private member what I am endeavoring to do as
a Minister under exceptionally abnormal difficulties,
viz., give the public the best service possible at a
reasonable cost.
With regard to your complaint about imperfect
serviee, in the paragraph on increased postal rates,
I desire to say that I do not expect to ever reach
that ideal perfection you represent; nevertheless, I
have no hesitation in saying that the service is as
good as, if not better than, hitherto, in suite of the
manifold difficulties arising- from the war.
In reply:—
The Bulletin did not drop from £10,167,125 to
£1,854,271. What it said was that “from the begin-
ning of Federation until now £10,167,215 has been
handed out of the national cashbox to the Post
Office” —that there had been shameful mismanage-
ment when the Commonwealth’s greatest monopoly
had to loaf on the Treasury for its development to
the extent of over £10,000,000 in 16 years. And
it is evidence of shameful mismanagement in very
recent times that there was a loss of £1,854,271 in
four years’ trading within this present decade. Turn
up the Commonwealth Government’s own “Year
Book”:—•
General Profit and Loss Account (P.M.G.’s
Department) 1912-15.
1913. 1914. 1915.
Total Earnings . . £4,243.292 £4,523,368 £4,620,061
Total Working Exes. 4,263,373 4,576,915 4,749,110
Deficit.. .. 20,081 53,547 129,049
Interest .. . . 376,409 435,223 488,069
Pensions, etc. . . 10,612 12,686 12,604
TOTAL DEFICIT £407,102 £501,456 £629,722
In the face of those figures why will Mr. Webster
persist that the £1,854,271 is represented by “realis-
able assets” ?
The Bulletin did not condemn \v ebster for
“giving the public the best service possible at a
reasonable cost.” But it did say that part of these
postal and other millions had been spent to corrupt
the constituencies —to buy votes; and it did say and
repeats that Webster himself, at the last general
election, issued a printed appeal for support
(Webster’s photograph thrown in) on the ground
that he had been conspicuously successful in getting
postal money spent in his distriat.
—— ♦
From a wireless cabin: —
Re the Cumberland. From 6 p.m. Saturday till
9 a.m. Monday a wireless “barren patch” exists
along the coast, during the daylight hours, for about
80 or 100 miles on either side of Gabo. The station
at Flinders Island was designed to fill this gap, but
as the station is closed from 6 p.m. till 9 a.m., and
all day Sunday, it might as well be in Alaska during
those stretches. Had the Cumberland affair hap-
pened on a Sunday her S.O.S. would have sparked in
vain. Scores of times when in the vicinity of Gabo
on Sundays or at night I have pushed telegrams out
on spec, and on inquiring subsequently if my
chance shot, had found any targets, on all occasions
except one I have been informed that the stations
a: Sydney and Melbourne had not received anything.
A great number of our coasters swing around Gabo
on Sundays; but, the wireless operators’ union hav-
ing secured a precise eight-hours day for its mem-
bers, these vessels are in a position to receive wire-
less signals for only a third of their time. During
the other 16 hours, ships, in case of emergency,
would have to depend on ability to “reach” one
of the land stations. With the comparatively short
range obtainable in daylight (a mystery never satis-
factorily cleared up) this is a difficult matter; in
places it is an impossibility. To unnecessarily add
to .the difficulty by opening so-called daylight sta-
tions. of which Flinders Island is one, when the sun
is hours high, and closing them long before sundown,
is something more than foolish. To close Flinders
on Sundays is specially so, as on that day the
portion of the ocean it was designed to protect is
at its busiest.
Two or three thousand men who belonged to
the little permanent army of Australia before,
the war have gone to the Front. Some of
them have been returned; more will no
doubt be returned later on. Some have come
back sick or wounded ; others have been sent
home because, so it is alleged, their services
are necessary in Australia; others again,
perhaps, because they were failures. If
there are these last, what are we going to
do with them? The permanent men are
those to whom the training of the Australian
army of defence is entrusted. Should the
Fates be so unkind as to compel us to fight
for the defence of our own land, it is to
the officers in the permanent ranks that we
should have to look for leading, in the earli-
est stages of the war, at any rate. Surely,
then, we should know whether any men who
either have been returned or will be returned
in the future have been relieved of service
at the Front because they were no good for
the job. To retain their services, after those
services have failed in the practical test, will
be a menace to Australia. This country
cannot afford to pay anyone good money
for doing nothing: but it would be far better
to do that than keep failures where they
would be merely a national danger.
“M.G.”: We are always trying to replace
with the same thing—paper by paper, iron
by iron, and so on. In our we are
reduced to one meal a day, owing to the
cost of saucepans. No iron, no steel, no
aluminium to make more! Now I want to
know, if we can make concrete barges (as
we have done) and concrete ships (as we
propose to do), why can’t we have concrete
pots and pans? We have earthen pie dishes,
China plates and glass rolling-pins. What’s
the matter with concrete —with a cement
lining if it is otherwise too rough inside for
cooking purposes? What could be worse, at
any rate, than a porous, brittle, cast-iron pot or
saucepan, with a lead lining or a bad enamel?
It is time this country left off turning over
old invoices and groaning at “shortages” and
“increased prices,” and took to looking for
“substitutes” and “things just as good.”
Why, we have blue-metal enough in this
country to cook the world’s dinners if we
liked to re-consider its uses in the light of
chemistry, just as we have enough gelatine in
prickly-pear to keep us in a substitute for
linoleums, mouldings and wall-papers if we
seriously enough considered its use in such
directions. Bad as it might be at the start,
it could be no worse than some of the things
we are doing with at present. In relation
to the whole thing, why look skyward praying
for meteorites when we have a world of vege-
tation, rock and chemicals round us?
“Te Babarantiko” on Fijian land-owner-
ship :
If the first Governor had decided that all lands
within this continent of Australia were the property
of Binohi, to be held or disposed of by lease but
not by sale, one can imagine the state of mind of
the present white inhabitants. That about illus-
trates the position of land ownership in Fiji.
Fiji native land ownership is somewhat on rho
communal system, with control vested in groups of
Maori Soldiers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who went out with the war canoes
When Death was in the seas?
These went out with the war canoes,
And these, and these, and these!
Side by side with the pakeha.
They fought that Right might win.
Lo ! in city and lonely pa
Our pride has made us kin.
Who came in from the Maori lands
To take the soldiers’ way?
They came in from the Maori lands,
And they, and they, and they !
Big-eyed lads with the swordsmen’s wrists
And calm-eyed Maori braves —
Warm are the soft Aegean mists
That drift across their graves.
Who marched out to the battle-line
While royal trumpets blew?
You marched forth to the battle-line,
And you, and you, and you !
Smiling lips, that are grave again,
And heart that understands.
What of the homes that wait for men
Who tarry in far lands?
Who gave all for the English king.
For truth and liberty?
He gave all for the English king.
And he, and he. and he!
Chieftain’s blood in their veins ran strong
For so their grandsires died.
The winds their spirits bear along
Beyond the farthest tide.
Who went out with the w’ar-canoes
That dared the distant seas?
These went out with the war-canoeS,
And these, and these, and these!
Side by side with the pakeha
They died that Right might win.
Lo! in city and lonely pa
Grey grief has made us kin.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


The Farmers’ and
Settlers’ Co-operative
Insurance Company
of Australia Ltd.
Head Office :
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches in VICTORIA and SOOTH AOSTRALIA.
Have You Covered Your Liability
under
the
Workmen’s Compensation Act?
The Act came into operation on July 1. Ail employers of
labor are liable to provide compensation to any employee
injured in their service. Write at once for particulars.
The Farmers* & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Ltd.
is THE Farmers’ Insurance Company.
Are You a Shareholder?
If not, write us and we will explain the
___ benefits you can secure by co-operation.
from 15 to 20 persons. Income from land leases
is divided according to rank.
After two-score years of native land control only
a small portion is in use by the natives —a state
natural enough when rent obtained from portions
leased to agriculturists is amply sufficient for the
natives’ needs. Yet the native has become more reluc-
tant to even lease any of the surplus land since
the birth of the new cry of “Fiji for the native
Fijians.”
It is now argued by land-hungry whites in Fiji
that the Government, having the right to sell as
well as to lease native lands, should allot to the
natives land sufficient for their use, and sell or
lease the balance as it may think proper. But so far
the Government has not budged from its old policy.
How the natives would take a change of policy can
hardly be open to doubt.
Not that the Fijian white is landless. Quite a
number hold large areas of best Fiji soil, under free-
hold tenure or lease. Some use all, or portions, of
their holdings. There are geniuses, too, who have
hit upon the plan of leasing small areas to Solomon
and other Islanders, and to free Indians, rent free,
on a contract whereunder the tenant must sell his,
say, bananas, at a fixed price of one shilling per
bunch to the benevolent landowner. Others do
little with the land, while looking for green new-
chums with a little capital to put in along with
Chummy's own labor in developing the land for the
holder’s benefit. Could land but be made easier of
acquisition, speculators would have a fine time.
Considering everything, it would, then, be well
for Australia not to assist in any attempt to dis-
possess the native Fijians of their lands. The case
might be different if there was more than enough
labor available to cultivate the land already sold or
leased. But there isn't, and the labor supply is
decreasing rather than increasing. Incidentally, the
more it decreases the better the chances of agri-
culture in our own North.
• ♦
The Centre of it all —the Trench.
The happenings at the Front are what count
in this business. As long as the German
armies are undefeated in the West the Allies
are not winning the war whether the Hun is
starving or not. And if the Russian armies
are not standing up to the enemy on their
side, then Ivan is not marching to victory
even though the Czar has been deposed. Mere
words about what must happen to the Ger-
man if Russia becomes consolidated are not
worth listening to. So far as we are con-
cerned, what is occurring in the trenches is
the surest evidence of what is taking place
behind them. A couple of weeks ago the
Russian fell on the Austrian and mauled
him badly. It looked like a tremendous revi-
val. But last week the German fell on the
Russian, and, up to the time of writing,
what he had been doing to the fleeing Bear
was painful to hear about. This is reported
to have “intensified the crisis.” Manifestoes
urging the army to fight have been issued.
Appeals are being made to the voiceless
millions of Russia to arise and save the situ-'
ation. Further proofs of German conspira-
cies at Petrograd have been unearthed. The
German appears to be preparing to put the
boot in over beyond Poland. It all makes a
picture of the wildest chaos. Russia may
yet do all sorts of things, but none of them
are being done now, and as the position
stands' at the moment the German has some-
thing more than a chance of not being
greatly bothered by his most numerous
neighbor. Meantime the European summer
is moving on. If there are any signs of the
German being beaten or his line pierced or
anything serious happening in the very near
future they are being kept a close secret.
Foolish talk about victory after a Big Push
or before Christmas has gone quite out of
fashion. The time was more than ripe ; for
the job we are up against is more than seri-
ous. Hifalutin’ about the birth of a new
democracy in Russia and the weariness of
the German is as futile as expecting to see
the war won by making speeches. The
struggle is boiling down to one of endur-
ance, and in such a test none can escape
being tried to nearly the last gasp. More
than one of the combatants is very near that
stage now. It is good to see a new r one
coming in with unimpaired strength on our
side. We want him.
The political situation in South Aus. has
all the grace and dignity of a midnight meet-
ing of cats, ivhere all parties scratch and
swear up to the very moment of marriage.
Last week Peake with his new Liberal team
met the Assembly and had a terrible row
with Vaughan, ex-Premier. His suggestion
that the support of the Advertiser had been
secured by recommending Bonython for a
“step” in knighthood was violently denied;
after which it came out that only the motive
was open to denial, the recommendation hav-
ing been minuted. As Peake must have
found this among his predecessors’ papers,
J. H. Vaughan, Attorney-General in his
brother’s late Government, called it “a delib-
erate and unpardonable outrage,” and
hinted that the Goi*ernor should deal with
Peake for having violated his Ministerial
oath of secrecy. Yet next day Peake was
offering to drop three of his own new team
and take in Crawford Vaughan and two
others. The offer remains open, and is to
be considered this week. Peake had to do
something, a big section of the Liberal party
being clamorous for Coalition. O’Connor,
the Parliamentary whip, had resigned his
post on that admitted ground, and well-
known citizens outside who signed their
names to strong arguments on that side
were Angas Parsons, K.C.; Holden, of
Norwood; and Hackett, ivho long ago was
law partner of that great little man, John
Bray. It remains to be seen whether another
section will not kick against any alliance
with Vaughan and his Labor policy. As
they are finding out in Federal politics,
though oil and vinegar have it in common
that they are liquids, while gunpowder is
quite different, being a solid, they still remain
oil and vinegar even though you store them
in the same cellar.
According to the annual report of Dr.
Willis. P.M.O. of the Education Department,
the N. S. Wales youngster is not getting
anything like a fair chance to mature into a
sound citizen. The State-school medical
service w r as reorganised in 1913, and about
the middle of 1916 the results of the first
round of inspection became visible. Of
247,385 children examined, 147,078 were suf-
fering from physical defects needing treat-
ment. Only 57,310 obtained treatment.
In round numbers 60 out of every 100 exam-
ined were suffering from physical defects,
and of every 100 needing treatment only 39
obtained it.
While 3987 children were found to require treat-
ment for eye defects, 3406, or over 60 per cent.,
failed to obtain treatment; of 2181 needing treatment
for ear defects, 1566, or 71 per cent., failed to obtain
it; of 6060 needing treatment for nose and throat
defects, 4306, or 71 per cent., failed to obtain it;
and of 36,331 needing treatment for dental defects,
16,343, or 45 per cent., failed to obtain it.
Obviously, medical examination —useful as
it is—does not nearly fill the health bill.
It merely discovers where treatment is
necessary,
Richard Binnie, just dead at 63. spent a
lifetime in commerce in Sydney and was a
director of the Bank of N. S. Wales and
many other affluent cos. The original Dick
Binnie was a saddler and saddlers’ iron-
monger—he started nearly 80 years ago—-on
Brickfield Hill. “Binnie’s Buildings” are on
the site of the old shop.
Perth is hanging to its reputation of being
the wettest capital on our map. On July 9
there was a bumper public meeting in the
Town Hall, convened by anti-shouters. to
pass a resolution in their owh favor. Mayor
Frank Rea and Attorney-General “Cocky”
Robinson decorated the platform, while
Anglican Archbishop Riley and Colonial
Sec. Colebatch talked lukewarm horse-sense
about moderation and national economy.
But the crowd wasn’t having any. It was
captious all through, and when his Gaiters
filially put the resolution it was jubilantly
howded down.
“The Old Soldier” : Indian Judge Richards,
who is now in Sydney, has just handed this
to a press interviewer: —
More than once since I started on my holidays I
have heard India described as a seething mass of
disaffection. Well, in my opinion there is more
human happiness among the 300,000,000 of people
in British India than in any other part of the
world.
Perhaps the Judge is right. Most Anglo-
Indians, like myself, however, would hardly
care to put it so strongly. It may be said
that the average intelligent native who can
read and write, and who has a fair know-
ledge of the history of his country during the
last two centuries, is very well satisfied with
things as they are. Less than 110 years
ago the villagers about Agra and Delhi were
constantly harried by plundering parties of
Sikh horsemen from the Punjab, and the
whole story is faithfully preserved by tradi-
tion all through the United Provinces, where
Richards is Chief Justice. But you can’t
measure all India by that.
Died in or thereabouts, Harry
Sylvester Darley, son of the late Chief Jus-
tice of N. S. Wales. Nature played a nasty
trick on Harry Darley. It gave him the .
tastes of a millionaire without giving him 5
the million ; and the idea of him making it
himself was out of the question. He was
tried in one or two jobs—as associate to his
father and as an ornament at Government
House. But he found it all a horrible bore.
One brief experience in Westralia suggested
that, had his kinsman Sylvester Browne
taken him in hand early, he might have done
well. But lie never struck the right A r ein.
Or, perhaps, the right mates.
8.M.” : It was my week for the “casual-
ties.” There was the usual assortment of
human repair jobs scattered about the out-
patients’ room—some with broken wings,
some with dislocated features and two with
damaged heads. I started bandaging one of
them when all hands were electrified by
a shriek of joy from an aged soapsuds-
duchess who had been sitting in a corner.
“ ’Ere they are!” she crowed. “ ’Ere they
are! And I thought I’d swallowed ’em!”
She held up, triumphant and relieved, a very
battered set of upper-storey teeth, which she
bad discovered in the depths of her handbag.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Canary Cottage
Criterion “Mary Goes First^
Palace “book Who s Here
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Play*
Hoyt's Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Conservatorium Hall The Cherniavskys
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Arcadians’
Royal “Daddy Long Legs”
King's • • “Out There”
Princess's “The Story of the Rosary
Tivoli “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” & Vaudeville
Auditorium Scotney-White Concerts
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Mary is a nark. Having a sharp tongue
and a capacity for saying witty, cattish
things to (and about) her bosom friends, she
naturally leads Society in an English pro-
“A LITTLE BIT OF
FLUFF,” at Sydney
Opera House. Trippett
(Frank Harcourt).
vincial town. But
the husband of one
of her bosom
friends is made a
knight, and Mary,
whose husband is
a plain Mr., has
thereafter to suffer
the indignity of
playing second-
string in all Society
functions. This
annoys her so much
that she uses her
sharp wit on the
vulgar newly-
created Lady Bods-
worth. But when
she terms her rival
an “impropriety,”
the Lady threatens
to sue her for
slander. The efforts
of Mary to avoid
apologising form
the basis of Henry Arthur Jones’s
comedy, “Mary Goes First.” produced
at Sydney Criterion on Saturday. Her
triumph comes with the purchase for her
husband of a baronetcy. Considered in
another aspect, this English comedy is an
elaborate exposure of the practice of purchas-
ing English honors by large donations to
party funds. But in Australia Iv.C.M.G.’s
fall impartially on the deserving though rich,
and M's.L.C. are always citizens of culture,
genius and impeccability; so the theme of
the play is foreign to our audiences.
The comedy is clumsily constructed, setting
us wondering what has happened to Jones,
though the second act is brilliant. He
makes Felix Galpin explain the plot, with
tedious details, at the opening of the first
and the fourth acts. In the hands of a less-
wearied playwright all this would have come
to light naturally in the dialogue. The
fourth act, or epilogue, is quite unnecessary
and undramatic, since all that happens in it
is just what the audience has been led to
expect. The blame for the sympathy that is
aroused for the vulgar but simple target of
Mary’s pointed remarks lies, however, with
the actors and not with the dramatist. Marie
Tempest is the principal offender; for in the
epilogue she lacks that impulsive sweetness,
sympathy and large-heartedness that would
have honeyed poor Lady Bodworth’s defeat.
The part of Mary must have been built for
Marie Tempest’s dazzling virtuosity; it is
too much to expect that she should have in
“TRAVIATA."
Belloni as Germont.
equal quality the
softness of sympa-
thetic warmth. In-
cidentally, her
genius for elucida-
tive gesture is dis-
played here at its
highest. She speaks
dictionaries with
her fingertips.
* *
The cast is ex-
cellent. Ethel
Morrison, judging
by her restrained
work in “Penelope”
and her exuberance
as Mary’s stupid
rival in this play,
is a finished actress
of character parts.
She gains the sym-
pathy of the audi-
ence in this play,
not only because
she is the under-dog but because of a charm
beneath the make-up. Gwen Burroughs and
Mrs. George Lauri are admirably placed,
rhere is no criticism possible of Graham
Browne’s portrait of the good-natured hus-
band of the tempestuous nark. It triumph-
antly concludes a series of brilliant charac-
terisations. Frank Harvey is his natural
self—even to a slight tendency towards
squirming. Thomas Sidney, who in incon-
spicuous parts has proved hi ..self a reliable
actor whose work is founded on the best
traditions, is allowed to revel in the impor-
tant part of the K.C.M.G. with excellent re-
sults. Tal Odell's former old-man study is
worth 107 of his present unwhiskered part.
Leslie Victor and Sidney Sterling pleasantly
fill important niches. The elaborate setting
in which the four acts take place gives a
powerful illusion of roominess.
** * *
The Gonsalez Opera Co. has caught
a fresh young Australian soprano, Emma
Franceschi, who achieved an immediate
success as an actress. Making her
debut as Santuzza in “Cavalleria,” she
had to gulp down stage fright. In the
gulping the voice, especially in the lower
register, lost much of its power, and was
buried by an importunate orchestra. But the
higher notes rang out sweet and true as the
woes of Santuzza increased, and a whole
three volumes of tragedy pierced the rafters
of- the Sydney Opera House. Of Italian
parentage, the Lismore girl has the fire of
Southern Europe mixed with the joyous
buoyancy of Australian sunshine, and her
success in opera seems sure. On Saturday
the co. shifted its baggage to Wirths’ Hippo-
drome, and will play there for a week or two.
The reappearance of Carrie Moore in “A
Little Bit of Fluff” coaxed a lot of Sydney
theatre-goers as far as the Opera House on
Saturday. The explorers found Carrie look-
ing like an elder sister of herself down from
the country. On her first entrance the
plump, over-dressed “Bit of Fluff” hummed
a bar or two of “Florodora” music to give
old friends a lead; but the slim young
Dolores of years ago couldn’t have been
detected without a theatrical finger-print
department. However, there were many bou-
quets and a lucky black kitten in a box for
old times’ sake at the end of a familiar farce
that has a fair number of laughs in it.
* * * *
Percy Marmot DTohn Ayres) is bright and
self-satisfied as the racketty young light-
weight husband who comes home from a
“A LITTLE BIT OF FLUFF." AT SYD-
NEY OPERA HOUSE.
Bertram Tully (Thos. Braidon) bein'] led
into temptation by Mamie Scott (Carrie
Moore) .
night-out with the Bit of Fluff's borrowed
£5OO pearl necklace in his overcoat pocket.
Daisy Atherton is the quiet and dainty wife
who finds the gaud and later receives it sus-
piciously as a little peace-gift from her lying
husband. Thos. A. Braidon makes most of
the fun as the sly and reluctant chapel-going
friend from the next flat who is dragged into
the domestic whirlpool and bullied into lying
for all hands when the Rajah who lent Fluff
the necklace is clamoring for its return, and
Fluff is worrying Ayres, and Ayres is trying
to get £5OO from a ’bus company on a fraud-
ulent accident claim so that he may buy
another necklace. While waiting for the
co.’s doctor to call and examine him he stays
in so little that the chapel-goer has to put
on his pyjamas and groan in his place when
the medico arrives unexpectedly. The posi-
tion then is that the claims-inspector has ex-
amined one liar and the doctor the other;
but the outlook isn’t pitch-black until both
officials arrive together. Then the farce
flies to pieces and the curtain is dropped to
prepare for a third act that shouldn’t hap-
pen only it contains a perfect type of a rude
religious servant. Before it does happen
Eardley Turner gives a true sketch of the
old-style practitioner, and the action of the
piece is interrupted twice to allow the spirited
Carrie to sing two songs.
❖* * $ *
Canary Cottage” isn’t to let yet at Syd-
ney Majesty’s. It’s wonderfully commodious,
comfortably housing about 50 singing ladies
and gentlemen. In fact, when the second


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
Ad abiolutely ideal tonic. Awarded manv gold medals for purity.
A SPIRIT OF QUALITY.
GILBEY’S DRY GIN.
PURE and WHOLESOME.
SEE THAT YOU GET GILBEY’S.
This celebrated Gin is
specially recommended
for those suffering
from
KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
and
RHEUMATISM.
TUCKER <SX CO., Sydney, sole Agents.
A Collar Always Clean!
sata.
Sinplc. with peaks, as shown,, tin. deep.
Double, Is, 2 and 2} inches deep.
Peapes’ “Quikclean” collar is not celluloid.
Tt is made of White Irish Shirting specially
proofed. Can ho cleaned quickly with soap
and water. No ironing. One collar thus
serves instead of many—a great convenience
for travellers and those distant from laun-
dries. In appearance it closely resembles
a linen collar, and is not inflammable like
celluloid.
We Pay Postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES (Q. CO., LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters,
309 (EL 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
act turns it inside out, it is found to contain
itself and the surrounding landscape.
<. T r the current week Ada Reeve put on
“Halt-an-Hour,” a Barrie playlet, at Sydney
-Livoli, and thereby stirred up the curious. As
the blue-blooded lady who runs away and
then runs back again, Ada is interesting and
amusing; but the support is shaky. The
playlet is an addition to the usual songan-
uance turn and the Anzac Buffet appeal, so
it’s heavy going
for the clever little
lady. Talleur
Andrews, all the
better for a winter
rest, is singing in
good form. and
Nikola’s shadow-
making hands still
open and close on
a lot of applause.
The banjo twang-
ing of Frank
Mark 1 e y ceases
not, and the sub-
lime . self-confidence
of singing conduc-
tor Harry Jacobs
compels a bashful
world’s respect
Sydney James
and Jack Waller
have got the ”JAx>k
Who’s Here” pot
boiling briskly at
Sydney Palace. It
will be some time
yet before the well-
Melbourne Tivoli.
Nellie Stewart as Nell
Gwynne.
mounted show gets down to a steady simmer.
Sydney films this week:—
Crystal Palace : “The Girl, Glory”—in which
Enid Bennett becomes a militant temperance re-
former and skittles the bar stock in so charming a
way that no reasonable Bung could object.
Hoyt’s : “The Fallen Star,” another film triumph
by Albert Chevalier, of “My Old Dutch” fame.
Lyceum ; “The Barrier,” a fine film version of Rex
Beach’s novel of strenuous days in Alaska.
“Peg o’ My Heart” is pegging out at Mel-
bourne King’s this week. On Saturday the
Taits are trying a new show by Peg’s
author, entitled “Out There.” It is said
to breathe the spirit of the times and to be
full of grips and thrills. But thrill it never
so deeply it can’t run longer than three
weeks.
* * * 5?
The days of “Grumpy” at Melbourne
Royal are numbered, and to-night Cyril
Maude will speak his last speech before the
curtain and bestow his heartfelt blessing on
the city that has given him such a mighty
good time. Audiences last week didn’t get
the best of “Grumpy” as a play, but they
mostly didn’t know what they were missing,
so it made no difference. Betty Murray, the
colleen who plays Susan in the ordinary way,
met with an accident to her dear little nose.
In her absence Miss Pater migrated from
the part of the Doctor’s wife to play Susan,
whilst another girl appeared as the matron
whom Grumpy detests. The management
that takes the money can’t be cordially told
to keep the change. On Saturday comes
“Daddy Long Legs.” introducing Ivathlene
Macdonell. and bringing Charles Waldron
back to Melbourne.
* * *
Frocky Evelyn Scotney and her husband,
Howard White, came back to Melbourne
Auditorium last Saturday, and a great crowd
of old admirers rolled up to welcome them.
The pair are not a great vocal combination.
Madame produces a fairly high-class high
soprano with an art that is less than con-
summate, and White is a good, honest singer,
with a distinct enunciation and a voice of
middling quality. But they sing pleasing
selections of songs and operatic numbers, and
their linked personalities are interesting. The
pretty little wife in a short, stiff muslin skirt
looks rather like a Columbine with a gauzy
tail. The husband is the very antithesis of
a harlequin, though he might be an impecca-
ble chemist who had taken to the Church.
The pair stand for harmonious discord in
style. She is diffidently gay; he makes little
speeches with grave assurance. His “Chris-,
tian war” oration, apropos a Star-spangled
Banner handed across the footlights, was the
crowning point of the successful concert on
Saturday. Among the more musical items
the Scotney rendering of “Lo! Here the
Gentle Lark,” with Amadio for flautist, was
the gem of the evening. Nor could any song
have been more appropriate to the song-
stress, for she seems something of a gentle
lark herself. The supporting solos of Amadio
and pianist Elvins shared in the supply of
customary encores. Further concerts are
announced for to-night (Thursday) and
Saturday, after which General Desire may
he expected to order another campaign.
* 5l: *
The mostly-pleasing reviva l of “Mikado”
at Melbourne Majesty’s will last till Friday,
and then the three Arcadians will descend
upon Askwood racecourse in a flash of dark-
ness and deliver their propaganda to the
heathen. The sweet old story of Sister
Somnia and Simplicitas is only for six nights
and a matin6e.
* * * *
The Tivoli’s Melbourne bill this week in-
cludes the last two acts of “Sw T eet Nell” and
new vaudeville turns. Nell Stewart plays
with all her old vim and decorative art in
Act 3, and Blakiston with the rest of the co.
makes a very good job of the final scene in
the big room at Whitehall, where the sound
of town talk never reaches. Jeffreys of
course is ultra-violent. But his explosive gur-
gling is strictly according to Australian tra-
dition. The first person to wear the long
wug in this country was an Anglicised Dutch-
man who gurgled and spluttered with some
difficulty in the English language; conse-
quently all his successors have talked as
though they had a foreign rage in their
throats. Among the new people are Clyde
Cook, who repeats the lamp-lighter business
previously seen in musical comedy, which first
stamped him as a droll performer who got his
first ideas from the late Johnny Coleman and
lost none of the humor of them. Mabel Morgan,
even handsomer than of old, displays a fine,
tall figure in a variety of gorgeous apparel,
and a voice full of head-note, Thurber and
Thurber are the funniest of mock strongmen,
working with invisible wires. Also Nelusco
and Hurley repeat their songs and conversa-
tions, in which the lady is always overcome
with merriment when she looks at the gentle-
man. She can’t start to address him with-
out bursting into laughtep, and that’s where
she seems to miss the joke. She ought rather
to burst into tears.
“Her Greatest Performance,” filmed at
Hoyt’s Melbourne house on Saturday, is a
heavy bouquet flung at a, decayed reputation.
The foremost spook is Ellen Terry, who is
sentenced to wander around a bloodstain in
the middle of the story. Dennis Neilson
Terry and other relatives accompany the old
lady, so the blot aforesaid becomes the locale
of a family reunion. Hoyt’s materialists,
however, get better value for their cash in
the new Metro offering, “The Dawn of
Love.” This amorous steeplechase shows
Mabel Taliaferro taking the fences at a
gallop.
* * * *
Anita Stewart, disguised as “The Girl
Philippa,” is facing the all-day multitude at
Melbourne Britannia this week. Gladys
Brockwell is the current light in the dark-
ness at the Melba Theatre. She has to por-
tray two lots of emotions as a convent girl
and an Alaskan dance-queen in a series of
nerve-shocks called “Sins of Her Parent.”
** * *
Adelaide shows are various but not start-
ling. Willoughby, debonair as ever, revives
at the King’s the old “.Tones” farce with a
few r songs thrown in. June Added, as a
mature and knowing heroine, sings well. But
this kind of thing needs a chorus. In the
absence of one, why not use the old “China-
town” plan, half a
dozen of the other
principals gathering
round and supplying
the want? The Ander-
son Co. at the Tivoli
still revels in melo-
drama. Just now it
deserts the haughty
English villain for
Bush color in Ambrose
Pratt’s romance built
round Thunderbolt and
his ’ranging. Tne Maj-
estic has a mostly
song -or - dance pro-
gramme with “Stiffy
and Mo” at the head
of it and some good
juggling by “ITal.” The
Royal shows “strong”
Fox films, chiefly of
the kind in which
people tell each other
“You gotta come across
with the stuff!” West’s
has Clara Kimball
Young in a “Society”
romance, and Wonder-
graph a charming and
unusual Island setting
of Stevenson’s “Bottle
Imp” fairy-tale; also
the local floods are a
“THE MIKADO ,”
at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Villiers Arnold as
the Mikado.
sure draw on the screen. Edgar Walenn, the
Conservatorium’s new violinist, has given
his first recital; just on the doorstep are
“Grumpy” Maude at the Royal and the Fisk
Jubilee Singers at the Queen’s. What a life !
Malcolm New r man, one of Australia’s
best-known mining engineers, having com-
pleted a job that he had undertaken in the
Malay Peninsula, enlisted on his return to
Sydney and >s now a full corporal in the
Engineers’ officers’ training-school at Rose-
ville.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.": Alany G. and S. characters may
be treated in a variety of ways, not pedanti-
cally Gilbertian yet not quite illegitimate.
But the demoniacal Mikado and the luridly-
haglike Katisha in the Firm’s latest revival
are over the odds. The spirit of “The Mikado”
is satirically humorous, whereas Yilliers
Arnold and Celia Ghiloni are earnestly and
appallingly ugly. Gilbert never intended them
to stand out so conspicuously from the rest of
the cast: their gruesome forcibleness is ille-
gitimately obtained. One laughs at it and
applauds the melodramatic singing, but there
have been other Mikados and Katishas who
were equally effective in a lighter way. The
best Mik. that I remember was Allan Morris
years ago (or it may have been the late
Rosevear), who made a specialty of his
seeming annoyance and disgust when Katisha
chipped into his song and commanded the
chorus to bow to daughter-in-law-elect. He
appeared as a potentate who couldn’t shake
himself free from the awful woman. Villiers
Arnold and Miss Celia act like a pair of con-
spirators in cruelty, going around together
seeking whom they may doom to a long and
lingering death.
Anatole France’s “The Man Who Married
a Dumb Wife” is not quite ready, so Gregan
McMahon has decided to give a Melbourne
Rep. performance next month of St. John
Hankin’s “The Charity That Began at
Home.” The Anatole France curiosity will
be ready in September.
The late Beerbohm Tree was first,
not long ago, in an actors’ popularity vote
in London Truth. The rest of the placed
half-dozen were Alexander, Wyndham, Bour-
chier, H. B. Irving and Martin Harvey.
Then came Hare (who built up a Maude-
iike reputation for studies of old men),
Forbes Robertson, Maude himself and Wal-
ler. Asehe was among the also-ran. He,
by the way, had a poor opinion of Tree.
“Only a character-actor,” he said. “Popular
in London, but not elsewhere. But he has
the preSs solid for him.”
“Stargazer” : The more Ko-Kos I see the
more pleased I am with the first I ever saw.
We are informed that the Ko Ko of C. W.
Workman won grateful expressions from
Gilbert. I hope it is not true. Howard Ver-
non’s grave, slow Ko Ko, dignified, earnest,
solemnly convinced of the seriousness of his
position, never admitting for a moment the
smallest consciousness of the fact that he
was a comic object, was, it seems to me,
absolutely true to the spirit of the part, and
a perfect embodiment of Gilbert’s humor.
Workman, with a better voice than Vernon’s,
presents a Lord High Executioner who is
always conscious that he is a fool, and is
always eager to impress his folly upon the
audience.
“Dry Shave”: Anyone who saw the late
Beerbohm Tree as Austin Limmason in the
dramatisation of Rudyard Kipling’s “The
Man Who Was” will agree with “Cockaigne”
(B. 19/7/T7) that the dead actor excelled
in the grotesque. Tree’s portrayal of the
human derelict was a masterpiece both in
acting and in make-up, and I’ll remember
him in that one-acter long after I have for-
gotten that he ever put the ’fluence on Trilby
or demanded his pound of meat.
The .T. C. Williamson importation. “Dam-
aged Goods.” is booked for a tour of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. Newcastle. August
4; then Bananaland. Harry Plimmer, lead-
ing man ; Michael Joseph, pilot.
“Kirribilli”: “Midchannel” (B. 19/7/Y7)
wails, like a number of other thoughtless
folk, at the .T.C.W. firm for “not encouraging
local talent.” Who introduced and encou-
raged Gladys Monerieff. Dorothy Brunton,
Enid Bennett. Maggie Dickinson. Ivy Shill-
ing. W. S. Percy. Fred Leslie and other suc-
cessful Australian mummers?
Alfred Barry, who died at Parramatta
(N.S.W.) last week, aged 48, was a typical
6ft. Cornstalk who whetted his musical appe-
tite at eisteddfods, and in many Australian
States and Maoriland crowds have cheered
him for his excellent adjudications.
“L.11.P.”: Bert Bailey’s new repertoire
makes interesting reading. “Much Ado About
Nothing’’ has not been seen on the Aus-
tralian stage since the Brough-Boucicault
production in 1892. The fine cast in-
cluded Titheradge (Benedick), Percy Lyn-
dal in Melbourne and Edward Sass in Syd-
ney (Don Pedro), Edward Sass in Melb.
and Frank Cates in Sydney (Don John),
Cecil Ward (Claudio), James Cathcart
(Antonio), Geo. W. Anson in Melbourne and
H. R. Harwood in Sydney (Dogberry),
Arthur Greenaway (Borrachio), A. R. Law-
rence (The Friar), Mrs. Brough (Beatrice),
Emma Temple (Hero) and Emma Gwynne
(Margaret), Verges (Boucicault) and Leon-
ato (Brough). Spong’s scenery was some-
thing to remember; one could wish for
nothing finer than the exterior and interior
views of Leonato’s palace, and the lovely
garden set. Jimmy Cathcart, who played
Antonio, had been the Claudio of Charles
Kean’s great revival at the London Prin-
cess in 1858. Titheradge once stated that
the show cost £4OOO before the curtain rose,
and little or no money w T as made out of
either Melbourne or Sydney run. Sheri-
dan’s “Critic,” another coming Bailey pro-
duction, has not been seen for years in Aus-
tralia. “The Corsican Brothers” was last
done by Julius Knight at Sydney Royal in
the Christmas season of 1909-10, during a
very oppressive summer. George Rignold
was the last to make “The Tempest” rage on
an Australian stage—in Melbourne only. He
was a very fine Caliban. Before he came to
Australia in 1885 Robert Brough was an
excellent Caliban in a big production at the
Dublin Royal in 1878 under Gunn, whose
nephew in later years partnered Clyde Mey-
nell in Australia. Sydney had a memorable
“Tempest” production at the old Prince of
Wales Opera House (whei-e the Royal now
stands) in 1869. when Wm. Hoskins, Nat
Douglas, Clias. Young, Jas. Rainford, Charles
Hall (Caliban), Wm. Andrews, and Florence
Colville figured in the cast. Hoskins, who
played Prospero, was the producer. Alfred
Clint did some wonderful scenery for this
production, and George Leopold saw to the
dances.
Tyrone Power, from California: —
The Rep. is a fizzle over here. I have seen a
few performances at these theatres, but they are
of no consequence, and the plays generally deal with
the family lavatory or are some vague undramatic
thrust into putridity. The police were asked to
close up one of these theatres, it being regarded as
a pest-house by the unenlightened citizens.
As far as the stage is concerned things are bad ;
indeed, I regret that America reflects the English
stage. Our plays are at a pretty low level; we
glorify the thief and the prostitute. Having run
through all the moral cesspools uneffectively, we
dramatise lingerie. To be a really successful
dramatist it is almost necessary to cleverly introduce
nakedness. The great drama is dead. The public is
no longer capable of judging the art of the actor (I
apologise for employing that overworked “art”) and
no longer is interested. The moving pictures have
saved the actor from ruin. From the profit of this
labor it will be possible for him to free himself
from the chains which commercialism, ignorance and
cupidity have for too long bound and tortured his
soul.
I often think of my days in Australia, and their
vicissitudes. No actor could ever have been better
received than I was—the finest and most discriminat-
ing public, and, above all, splendidly encouraging.
I shall always look back upon my Australian per-
formances as the happiest of a stirring career, and
I still have a hope that I shall have the privilege of
repeating them.
“T. 0.1.”: The Sun in an article on Larry
Foley and his digging experiences at Gul-
gong says that in the ’7o’s Laurence met
G. V. Brooke while the latter was perform-
ing at the Bark Theatre on the goldfield.
When Brooke left Australia Larry was just
10 years old and when Brooke went down
in the London in January, 1866. he had added
five years to his age. The boxer may, how-
ever, have met Jimmy Byers at Gulgong:
I think he was the only one left of the old
or very old school Who had played there.
Byers one night put on “Richelieu.” He
stopped at the principal hotel, of course.
The landlady had a special private parlor,
sacred to the “best folk.” On ushering in
some special customer she found to her dis-
may that all her beloved antimacassars had
disappeared. She informed the police, but
was inconsolable until Jim Byers returned
from the theatre with a bundle. He had
borrowed the lot to dress the cardinal. I
met Jim and his wdfe years afterwards,
in a spring cart, doing the townships
betw'een Rlayney and Y’oung, with a song,
dance and recitation show. The little woman,
who had been a leading actress, pathetically
told me she hoped some day to settle down
in a home of some sort.
(Continued on page 3Jj.)
HAMLET IN A CEMETERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He held within one hand a script,
He shook thq other high.
A passion he to tatters ript.
He gave a piercing cry,
Addressing irresponsive stone
With Hamlet’s poignant dread,
Then cast him down, and writhing prone
He maundered to the dead.
I asked: “Then is there no escape,
And even in the pit
Must man endure this frantic ape,
And wreak no vengeance fit?
\\ hy do not all these ghosts arise
With criticisms grim
From granite roots the columns prize,
And cast their stones at him?”
The actor ramped among the dust,
And none turned in his grave.
Here was no animated bust;
Here none to heed the knave]
“Their rest,” said I, as forth I went,
“No actor may annul.
The man may be irreverent,
But he, is merciful!”
VICTORIA.
S. S.


JOHN SIBINGC WiMfRS
tMHismo
DENTAL CREAM
cJSW
I ARIFS* EVERY PEARL HASITS CHARM -
■ a Beautiful Woman is a Paradise to the Eyes.
THE PEARLS OF PRICELESS VALUE are to be found in
John S traivge w
inter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS—for THE GODDESS OF BEAUTY - .
They have won SIX GOLD MEDALS and are
USED BY ROYALTY.
Dental Cream, a delightful antiseptic, for pearl-white teeth, with a
delicate piquancy of tone and flavor, Lakshmi Cream and Lotion
New Face Cream (3 colors), Powder (3 tints), Soap, Carmine Per-
spiration Powder, Hair Foods (Oily and Non-Oily), etc.
All obtainable at the Civil Service, Horderns', Washington H. Soul's
Farmer & Co.’s, Lassetter’s, David Jones', McCathie * C’o’w W t’
Waters', McDowells I.td., etc
Send 2d. stamp for sample of Hoap, or Dental Cream, or Powder
(name the tint), to John Strange Winter (London Paris
Home), 32 Depot, 28-80 Jamieson Street. Sydney,
»i up 1 oultry. Complete breeding pens
—Orpingtons, I jan gshans, Leghorns, YVyan-
dottes (6 selected first-year hens ‘and
cockerel) f 4 per pen-~coop provided and
idil freight paid for 100 miles. All prize-
ni ?f I strai “ s - . Bi f- vigorous mountain-
bied buds. Cockerels ready for matins
(including Rhode Islands). 15 s . each. Str!dS
MedloT bS-Advt.~ WESTMEADE FaßM >
Akk AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitish Austral-
AHiA-rs. bd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tialm and news of Australians in Europe
and at home Australians are cordially T
uted to visit the British Austbalasian
Beading Room at the Offices, 115 High H O l-
- London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers meet their friends, use thl
*” d <**'« withoS
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
l slier, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
PLUCKY TO DO IT.
I say, old girl — er —do you think a chap is
a coward because he doesn't enlist?”
“Well, hardly—if he has the courage to face
his friends!"
“Murkah’s” sparks :—-
As '‘Devilfish’’ (B. 5/7/’l7) remarks, wireless
“dead patches’’ result from the action of mountains
in deflecting and absorbing the waves—“screening”
is the- wireless term, and the effect is the same as
that exerted upon sea waves by an island. But as
the sea wave soon picks up again after passing the
obstruction, so does the wireless wave, for instan <,
Port Moresby and Rabaul, though practically in each
other’s back yard, have considerable trouble in com-
municating, owing to screening by the intervening
lofty New Guinea country. Yet the signals which
Moresby finds so difficult to get are easily read at
Melbourne, 2000 miles further south. Travelling
between Westralia and South Africa ships get Perth
stajion’s signals at strength 7 when 1800 miles out.
But 800 miles nearer Perth their strength is only 5,
anrj with only 500 miles to go they are inaudible.
Yet at 300 miles the operator can sit out on deck
and read them by the sound they make as they
swish through the stay's. The cause is obscure; but
the phenomenon is generally attributed to magnetic
screening. I entirely disagree with “Devilfish’s
remarks re Hobart station, which is in my opinion
one of the very best in the Commonwealth. Sigs.
from it are read daily at Bluff (M.Tj.), 1000 miles
away, in broad daylight. One night in Noumea
Harbor I heard him very strongly with only a ship’s
aerial to gather the energy. Seeing that Hobart
commonly uses less than 3 h.p. these are good per-
formances.
“Stapleton”: The following figures, relat-
ing to the white population of the Northern
Territory, are from the Commonwealth
Bureau: —
Births.
Population. , K >,
Females. Male. Female.
1912 .. 621 23 10
1913 .. 677 27 26
1914 .. 721 31 27
1915 .. 876 33 28
1916 .. 928 44 30
This shows, at the least, that the women
are holding their own, and that the “deadly”
North is not all it is alleged to be by dis-
eolored-labor barrackers. Last year one
woman out of every 12 gave birth to a_ child,
while only one woman out of every 66 died.
The death-rate for males of all ages is about
one in 35 ; but it must be remembered that
gin, black and white, round and square, is
largely responsible for the majority of these
funerals. In five years there have been 28S
births in the N.T., while in the same period
only 51 women have died, an average,
roughly speaking, of 10 deaths per year. Set
agginst 57 births jper year it shows that
women in the Territory are doing their
share in helping to guard the open door.
* * * *
“J.J.S.” : These times life for the man who
stays at home is a long procession of button
days, raffles and dances. In the tram the
other morning I was reading the newspaper,
and the sight of a heading “Combating the
Social Evil” set my neighbor going. “An’
about time they did do something, too !” he
observed. “Why, up pur way they ’as about
a million socials and euchre parties a
month, an’ they expects a bloke to weigh in
every time!”
“Mud Hook” discourses on feet: —
This war has produced numerous complaints of its
own. The four I have in mind at present are
trench-feet, trench-fever, shell shock and the Censor.
The last-mentioned is a sort of malignant growth
that acts as an impediment to almost everything,
principally recruiting. Of the others trench-feet is
causing the most trouble, and so far the doctors
have not thought of a cure. The most popular treat-
ments are (1) amputation, (2) another hospital.
Often No. 1 is jibbed at; but the time comes when
the last of the series of hospitals is reached. Then
the first-mentioned treatment is resorted to in a bad
case. Of course there are mild attacks which more
or less treat themselves; but when the feet have
become badly affected, mortification sets in and
there is little hope of saving the limb. Usually, in
a bad ease, the doctors prefer to leave the foot or
toe alone, and in a month or so it cures itself by
dropping off.
In the Epsom War Hospital I took an interest in
three Australian trench-feet cases—not that they
were the only ones, for in a single convoy of 86 Aus-
tralians 59 had this trouble. That was about the
middle of winter. One of my specially interesting
cases was an abo. He had double pneumonia at the
same time, and as there wasn’t much chance of his
fighting both complaints at once, and as his feet
were easier to amputate than his lungs, he was
relieved of them. To the surprise of most of us the
rest of him recovered. Another was a Queensland
boy of about 18. His toes were all affected. When
I first saw him seven of them had dropped off,
leaving perfectly clean, healthy scars. He was
waiting for the other three to depart and then he
was going back home. No. 3 had it badly; both
feet had mortified to half-way between the ankle
and knee and had turned coal-black. They tried
electric treatment on him, and in a fortnight had
succeeded in gaining a quarter of an inch on the
blackness. But there was no hope. They both fell
off in time.
A lot of trouble is taken to prevent the complaint,
but the half-frozen mud soon tells. Plenty of clean
socks and time to change them and keep the feet
clean will go a long way towards preventing it.
Whale oil was tried, but was a failure. It isn’t
merely cold that causes it, or there would be an
epidemic in Sydney at present. There’s something
waiting for the man who can find a good preventive
and a cure, and that something includes the grati-
tude of a couple of hundred thousand Australians
and a few million English Tommies.
SUCH A TACTFUL GIRL.
“I asked her if I could see her home."
“And what did she say?”
“Said she would send me a picture of it.”
“Good Australian”: Midday luncheon
clubs are a feature of American city life.
Merchants, newspaper men, manufacturers,
advertising men, automobile managers and rate-
payers, as well as political parties, get to-
gether in clubs, which meet at midday lun-
cheon, to hear a “talk” by a prominent visi-
tor or somebody who brings information
about the common object of the members of
the club. The luncheon usually costs 35., and
consists of four courses, two jugs of iced
wetter and a small cup of black coffee. Some-
tipies the speeches are interesting, sometimes
humorous, but always boostful. It is the
proper thing for the chairman to praise him-
self and the speakers to praise themselves,
freely, frankly and immodestly. The chair-
man demands a “roll-call” of the members.
Each man in turn puts down his fork (all
things in America are eaten with a fork),
stands up and says, for example: “I am
Gumshoe Gabriel, shoe-purveyor ; not a Russ
or a Russian, but a rusher when I’m out to
get yarr orders.” (Loud applause.) Next
man roars in a bellicose voice : “I am Victor
Levy, garter manufacturer. I have found
out a garter at 75 cents, which will hold up
any sock on earth. It is doo to appear in 10
days, and will be a world-beater. If it
succeeds I will employ 1000 Californians in
my factory within live years. My guest is
my sister-in-law, and my wife knows we’re
SO LONELY DOWN
SOUTH.
SHE: " Chic? Um — perhaps. But she ought,
to give her shoes a party."
HE: "Give her shoes a party?"
SHE: "Yes, and invite her skirts down."
here.” (Prolonged cheering, in which Levy
joins without restraint.) Another fellow
jumps up and says: “Hiram Ulysses
i odunk, maker of writing fluids, mucilages
gums and pastes, capital 50,000d015., and
I m a sticker.” And then the speaker of the
day ‘puts up a talk” for 20 minutes on the
subject of “Why American business men are
the best on earth.” It is all most amusing,
and must be good for trade, as my neighbor,
who drank all my iced watter as well as his
own, said he had got more orders out of the
members of that particular Home Industry
Club than by any other means. Why can't
we imitate this idea at home?
**/ ■ * *
If you sat out a drama with a plot like
this you'd say it was overloaded beyond the
Plims@ll of probability: Villain, a German
of 94, at present in Germany, although origi-
nally exiled therefrom (in 1869) for having
fought a duel with Bismarck’s nephew;
heroine, a woman of 66 years, 46 of them
wedded, who fell in love with the villain on
the steamer by which he w r as travelling to
Australia, and, on arrival, married him
against the advice of her friends; interlocu-
tor. a friend of the husband, who told the
wife that her spouse had a wife and children
in Germany. Yet these were the people of the
play in a divorce case before Madden, C.J.,
in Melbourne, when Emily von Stranz ob-
tained a decree nisi from Otto von Stranz on
the ground of desertion. She said that when
she cross-examined him about his previous
marriage lie first said that he was married
to the best woman in the world —herself.
Then, being a Ilun, lie spoilt the compliment
by telling her to go to the Devil. She went,
however, to Williamstown, and subsequently,
after a lapse of years, to law, with the result
above set forth.
* > * *
“R.S.A.”: Can any easy-chair military
expert supply me with the origin of the
expression “swinging the lead'’?
The term is used to indicate the
higher and more dignified forms of
malingering. The gentleman who
goes into hospital with homesick-
ness or headache and spins out his
holiday therein to three or four
months (and such occurrences are
by no means rare) is said to be
“swinging the lead.” The profes-
sion is brought to a fine art
towards the end of winter, w r hen
there are signs of a Spring offen-
sive. Likewise do I desire the
beginning of “getting the wind up”
or “putting the wind up,” which,
being translated from Billjimsh
into English, means putting the
fear of the Lord into anyone.
“M.R.8.” : The Postal Department has
established another speed record. Posted at
Launceston on January 15. 1904. a letter did
not reach Sassafras till April 30, 1917, thus
taking 13 years to travel 70-odd miles. Mean-
while the addressee —a schoolmaster —had
moved to East Devonport, 14 miles further
on. The Rip Van Winkle letter was re-
addressed, and took only two months more
to whirl to his outstretched hand.
THE TIDY WIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis Martha Bailey, trim and clean,
And hard and stern of features,
The most industrious, I ween.
Of God’s demented creatures.
She cleanses all within the place
With soap and bathbrick daily.
Then listen and you’ll hear her case
Against the other Bailey:
Don’t you tramp now on thet floor
Here — win’s thumb-print’s on this door?
Off thet heart’rug! Mind them ’obs!
Ain’t 1 got enough o’ jobs?
Lor’ iv ’eaven, hole et that:
’Ere yiv gorn ’n’ ’ung yer ’at
On the peg I shone up smart —
’Snovgh to break a woman’s ’eart l
Dame Bailey’s home is all her pride.
At daybreak she commences;
When she has cleaned the whole inside,
She washes down the fences.
She rakes the yard of leaves and roots,
The tiles she hoses straightway—
Poor Ben should always leave his boots
Outside the precious gateway.
Off them tiles there when you pass!
Mote yer walkin’ on the grass !
Why ’m 1 a slave all day ?
Put yer blessed tools away!
In the tool-house? Don’t you dare!
Ain’t I jest bin cleanin’ there?
Now yiv pushed me pots apart—
’Snough to break a woman’s ’eart!
Good Martha spreads a yellow mat
To keep the carpet’s splendor.
A rug is set for saving that;
A cover fends the fender.
They’ve seven rooms, and live in two,
So polished all their trash is;
So spotless clean, and trim, and true,
Ben longs for dust and ashes.
Wot’s that? Would you smoke in ’ere?
Light a fire? No blessed fear!
Fillin’ cliimbleys up with sut;
Wot you’re fit fer is a hut!
Gart! that cushion cover’s clean.
Look ’ere where yer feet have been....
So new doin’s ever start —
’Snough to break a husband’s ’eart!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


A Central Australian Letter to the Great Medicine, CLEMENTS TONIC
One of the most remarkable testimonials of many remarkable ones given to Clements
Tonic Ltd., sent from Alice Springs, Central Australia, a distance of over 1000 miles
from Adelaide, and far from any centre of medical aid, showing the value of this
medicine to those living in remote country parts. .Mr. Hallett’s letter is here
published in full. Kead it.
Stuart Arms Hotel, Alice Springs,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. Central Australia. 2/4/16.
“4 few words in praise of the wonderful good your Tonic has done for me
during an illness of nearly five months, in which my legs from my feet upwards and
above my stomach were swollen to more than twice their ordinary size.
“I was almost helpless, could not stoop or do anything for myself. In trying
to lie down I had a feeling of strangulation, and was in a terribly bad way, and over
1000 miles from Adelaide. A lady friend who herself nursed me through that trying
time strongly recommended Clements Tonic. She had some in the house, and wired
to Adelaide for a supply. After the first two bottles I felt a slight improvement;
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.9.W,
the feeling of strangulation became less, my appetite increased, and I hare kept on
ini proring.
“I have taken three small and 12 large bottles, and am note so far recovered
that I am leaving Alice Springs to take up my duties as Foreman of the Over-
land Telegraph repairing party, which / have held for nearly thirty years, and
am well known from Darwin to Adelaide.
“/ may say lam still taking the tonic. All my acquaintances had no hope of
my recovery; even a trained nurse pronounced it a hopeless case; but Clements
Tonic built me up, enriched my blood, gave me natural sleep and strength, ami I
am thankful to say l feel almost as well as ever 1 did in my life, and the swelling
has all disappeared.
“(Signed) GEORGE HALLETT.”
Witness: Mrs. M. E. Jones, Alice Springs.
The original letter may be seen at the offices of Clements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
Clements Tonic should always be a part of every home equipment.
Get it and get well to-day. All Chemists and Stores sell it.
The statement of Billjim’s mother: —
I am a widow, and my small daughter and I
were depending on my two sons, who went away
with the first boats to leave for the Front. One
was killed in Lone Pine on the 6th August, 1915.
He was reported missing for nearly six months prior
to being reported killed. He left me 4s. a day, and
after his death the Military allowed me 4s. 6d. per
week pension, afterwards calling in my hook for
alteration and increasing it to £l. Now they say
they find they have paid me his allotment for longer
than they should, so they are asking for over £3O
back. They have taken the £l5 due on his deferred
pay, and are now demanding back over £l5 more on
account of this son.
The other boy left me 3s. per day, and when
some rule was passed that every man’s pay had to
be raised to Bs. per day and the extra paid to his
dependents, they increased my allowance to 4s. per
day. I understood that last October they made
another rule that he was to receive 10s. ; anyhow,
they raised my allotment to 4s. 9jd. Now, two
weeks ago, they have come to the conclusion that
I am not entitled to that extra money, and are
demanding it all back, over £35, on this boy’s
account alone. This makes £65 on account of the
two boys.
The Military now say they will only allow me
£1 2s. per fortnight until they get this money back.
Had Billjim’s mother known that she was
getting too much money the Department
would be completely justified in making the
deduction now. But, so far as The
Bulletin can ascertain, there is not the
faintest suggestion that she did not believe
that she was entitled to all that the Depart-
ment was paying her. Of course, the money
has been spent; so that, in insisting upon a
deduction from future payments, the Depart-
ment pinches this unfortunate woman in
order to recover losses made through its own
blundering.
An Australian artist in London, who had
a commission to paint the portrait of a lady
whose husband has become eminent in
trade, talks of the manner in which the food
shortage affects the upper classes :
I saw a whole string of poor women waiting for
the privilege of buying potatoes as I motored out.
Then, two hours later, the sitting was interrupted
while my lady fed her cat, a gorgeous Persian,
barbered and manicured to perfection, its claws
dyed a deep pink, a little gold chain collar about
its neck, with a small platinum bell attached. The
cat’s dinner was brought in a small porcelain bowl
on a tray, and my lady cooed to the sweet thing as
she fed it with—what do you think ? —fresh oysters
at five shillings the dozen!
And for us the worst of it is that some mad-
dened proletarian, knowing that such things
happen in England, will bring his bitterness
to Australia and start to raise his wild yells
of revolution here.
HER METEORIC CAREER.
JESS: “I never see that dame without feeling
that I have led a very fast life.”
KIT: “You a fast life? Absurd!”
JESS: “Well, I used to be five years younger
than she, and now I am three years
older.”
The. other day a Melbourne drapery firm,
advertising a bargain sale, got more than it
looked for. A particularly showy hat with a
lancer-plume, which for some days before
the sale had been featured in one of the shop-
windows at a fancy price, was “marked
down” to what was by comparison a mere
trifle, and the fact was put in bold type in
the newspaper-advts. A horde of women had
NOT MUCH OF A VILLAIN.
"My wife believes everything I say."
"You ought to be ashamed of yourself!”
"Oh, I wouldn't go that far. You see, I don't get a, chance to say very much."
seen and hungered for that hat, and the new
price fixed ’em. They were down Bourke-
street bright and early on sale morning, long
before the doors opened, swarming around
the shop-front until a young man with a
sad eye cautiously threw back the barrier.
With one accord the bunch tore for the first
floor, where the Spring poems in women’s
headgear bloomed, and demanded the Hat
in a long, feverish shriek. It was a really
passionate Thrift-movement; but it was
thwarted by its own momentum, for in the
struggle the hat was battered to pieces and
became nobody’s darling. It sounds like an
iEsop’s Fable.
* * * *
“J.C.M.”: “A.R.” (B. 12/7/T7) is in
error when he says that the signals showed
the crossing safe on the day the Candidate
capsized on the Port Macquarie (N.S.W.)
bar. On the contrary, the stand-off signals
were hoisted for the benefit of
three vessels outside —the Ada
and Eva, Empress of India and
Candidate. As there was an
easterly gale blowing at the time
they disregarded the signals and
attempted to cross in. The two
first-named vessels made the bar
safely, although the Empress of
India came very near sharing the
fate of the Candidate. Caught on
a huge sea she broached, but the
plucky men on her wheel got her
straightened up before the next
sea caught her. The Candidate
was caught in a race of seas. She
broached on the first, was caught
by the second before she could be
straightened up, and capsized
three times before she finally took
ground. When she righted the
second time the skipper was still
clinging to the deck. The only
attempt at life-saving was made
by the big Newfoundland dog
belonging to the ship. He was
seen swimming shorewards w T ith
somebody clinging to him. A
large sea. however, parted them,
and the dog was the only one of
the whole complement to reach
the shore alive. After regaining
his wind he made another plucky
attempt to save some of his ship-
mates, but was thrown back on
the beach exhausted.
“Billzac”: The “spit-and-polish” mania
gets some generals down. A few days after
we desert Anzacs had done a big job and
been patted on the back for it an order was
issued that the G.O.C. would inspect us.
The G.O.C. duly inspected, condemned and
blasted the -whole brigade. He “considered
it a damned disgrace that he should have
been allowed to inspect such filth ; he con-
sidered there was not one clean piece of iron-
work in the brigade.” In fact, he was bit-
terly annoyed and humiliated that he should
be the commander of such a mob. Our
attention was called to the fact that only a
few yards away was the perfectly polished
gear of the Yeomanry. Apparently the only
things that the G.O.C. could not condemn
were the rifles and other fighting equipment
-—including us. The men who explode in
this fashion are nearly always either officers
who have been in the habit of training
Britain’s standing army or others who think
that because the “regulars” and Australian
“permanents” do that sort of thing it is the
right thing to do. Lots of us don’t like be-
ing sworn at; lots more of us don’t like to
hear our own officers roared at for things
that don’t matter after they (or we) have
just done something that does matter. And
we are looking forward to the time, under a
system of citizen training, when the loud-
mouthed ruffian even though he wears
crossed swords will be dealt with just as
freely for this sort of blackguardly conduct
as a private is now for insolence to bis
officer.
* * * *
It is not often that a newspaper editor has
a personal letter in a local rival paper;' but
there was one by Langdon Bonython, of
Adelaide Advertiser, in the Register and
Herald the other morning. ’Tiser and
Register are both on the Liberal side ; but,
all through the negotiations between
Vaughan’s “National” party and Peake’s
plain Liberals, Bonython has urged a local
Fusion, while the Register steadily opposed
it. Peake took the Register view, and
went out of his way to suggest in the Assem-
bly that Bonython was after a further
“honor.” (He was made a Iv.B. long ago,
in Kingston’s time, and local gossip has
always credited him with wanting it im-
proved to a K.C.M.G.) Vaughan at once gave
an assurance that none of his Ministry had
ever been “approached” on such a subject, and
Bonython repudiated the suggestion "with in-
dignation and profound astonishment. .. .
Never in my life have I asked a Minister for
anything for myself. I have too much re-
spect for journalism. In this connection I
call Mr. Peake himself, Richard Butler. Mr.
Verran and Mr. Vaughan as witnesses. They
have all been Premiers.” Naturally Peake
“caught it” in the Advertiser, which
described him as “a political adventurer”
who had “traded shamelessly, caring nothing
for the public interest,” and owning no
regard worth mentioning “for the decencies
of public life.”
It is just 50 years ago since a “break-
fast” was held by the Wesleyans of S. Aus.
to “promote the building of a college on the
site secured facing the east park lands.” The
same week the coming visit of the Duke of
Edinburgh was announced and tenders were
opened for the new Adelaide G.P.O. The
royal skinflint, who afterwards preferred to
be a German, arrived in time to lay the
foundation-stone of both buildings, and the
college took his then name, Prince Alfred. It
has thus had a career of nearly 50 years,
with Frederic Chappie—-lately retired —as
headmaster for 40 of them.
“Rob” : A reference to the Kaiser’s hunger
for the great, land-locked harbor of Vavau
(B. 12/7/T7) reminds me of the look I had
at the place in June, 1914 —a month before
the lid flew off. Our steamer, carrying a
Maoriland official party, anchored at the
bead of the long sound on the birthday of
Tonga's Majesty, and the town’s supply of
bunting fluttered loyally among the palm-
tops. Three out of every four of those flags
was the tricolor of the Hun. A Maoriland
Minister aboard humorously challenged our
skipper’s navigation, saying we must have
got into Friedrichshafen by mistake. The
Governor of Vavau, a highly-educated
Tongan aristocrat, invited us to a toast-
drinking function. AVe imbibed only German
liquors, nearly all the whites present were
linen-clad, close-cropped squareheads, and
most of the conversation was in Hunnish.
In spite of Tongan courtesy we were made
to feel like aliens. We left Vavau quite
satisfied about that island’s place in the
Hun’s scheme of future things. There was a
fete day, also, at Nukualofa, while we were
there, and large quantities of German bunt-
ing and lager were contributed to the revels;
but, unlike Vavau, Nukualofa’s British
seemed to be holding their own.
HE SAID IT WAS IN THE NORTH SEA.
SHE: “ And — er — didn't you feel chilly when
you — er —stripped for action?"
chief Justice Murray (S.A.) has abso-
luteiy declined to order the couft to be
cleared in a criminal-assault case. The evi-
d horribie; but last year there was
a £ rea t newspaper howl atter a conviction
in a rape case heard by the same Judge, so
his Honor “thought it better the public
should be allowed to know all the details”—
instead of knowing only a few of them, and
then quarrelling with the verdict of 12 men
who had sat out the lot.
THE SWEETHEART OF THE TRENCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dearest, no girl was ever loved as you.
No woman, finger-fondled in the doze
Of summer, under boughs cool-kissed with dew,
Felt such caresses as your slim waist knows.
Bride of delight, your little white breast leans
Warm to my mouth, and all the red night clears.
I woo you gently, and my memory gleans
From your dear thrall the rose thoughts of old
years.
Your slender body is a poet's dream.
Your fragrant breath, incense of ecstasv.
What though the blazing rifles redly gleam,
Fearless, undaunted, you will charge with me.
Close-bosomed friend of long, unholy nights!
Lancelot may take false Guinevere to mate;
But, little sweetheart of the hell-hot heights,
Y'ou will be true to me, whate’er my fate.
Dearest, when wounded Time gives up the fight.
Be sure your darling help none will forget.
You soul of sanity, soft, soothing light
Of love and home, my little cigarette!
N.S.W.
CARLEMON.


Ex-Czar Nicholas’s
previous experience
in the steam-roilei
business might-
be useful to the
£ity Council.
Tino’s mission In life is
quite obvious.
THINGS SETTLE DOWN IT WILL BE
UP TO WHAT’S LEFT OF THE AUTHORITIES
TO FIX UP SOME SCHEME
TO SETTLE ROYALTIES IN
NEW JOBS INSTEAD OF
LETTING THEM HANG
AROUND BLOCKING THE
FOOTPATH.
The old Sultan could while
away the tedium of the
Turkish bath with the tale
of how he backed the
wrong-’un.
No doubt Hugh D.
Overcoat would lose
no time in engaging
Charles of Austria for
a star turn.
caw
Who but a bigoted vege-
tarian would say that the
peculiar but undoubted
ability' of Kaiser Bill should
go to waste at St. Helena?
Think how valuable to the Vic-
torian police force would be the
bloodhound conk of Ferdinand
of Bulgaria, scenting out the
elusive safebreaker.
There’s still an-
other one; but
it shouldn’t be
hard to find
a job for him.
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH OUR KINGS?


That shell.
“ ow did I get here?”
Convalescent. Ordered home.
Hooray I
How we took Pozieres
Such a lot of old pals to meet.
And as for girls !
“Thank God I’m out of it.”
Home a month.
Home two months.
“ Here, I'm fed up with this quiet life/'
BILLJIM BLUEGUM COMES HOME.


::
/
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
\»Caring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrow*.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
LEWIS&
WhITTY
MAKERS
SH
Q
Tsltaisi
Si*. . " -■'>
CASTOR OIL, SALTS * DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels o’f
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
boi the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping." Please
d° n t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It. is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages ami
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Dot the genuine, made by California l’ig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
ot rigs is sold by all chemists in. bottles ot
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. 13
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRINO
CIGARETTES
JENS AUGUST JENSEN, Federal
Minister of Customs.
“Base Records” in 1914 was not what it
is now, and there will be trouble in deciding
who was the first Billjim to enlist. But as
far as Victoria is concerned there seems to
be little doubt that it was Bugler William
Henry Groves, of Myers-street, Geelong,
lie was a painter, aged 21, and was sworn
in by Captain F. J. Jenkins on August 12,
1914. He is still in the thick of it.
Mentioned by cable the other day that
General Bethune is likely to wear a cocked
hat at Sydney Government House. Bethune
(he pronounces it Beaton) is at present
Director-General of Territorials in Fogland.
His wife’s father was another Scotch gen-
eral—Lockhart—and there is one daughter.
Bethune lost his right hand while a major
in India, but not in action. He was cast
for the part of John Wellington Wells in a
garrison production of Gilbert and Sulli-
van’s “Sorcerer”; and at the dress rehear-
sal the chemicals of the love philtre which
Wells mixes in the teapot exploded, taking
off the sorcerer’s hand.
A pair of twins celebrated their 80th
birthday in Melbourne last week. One was
Mrs. Watson, sister of the late Archdeacon,
and the other Miss Nichols. Mrs. Watson
was born in Tassy, and (come to think of
it) so was her sister.
Harry Keating is one of the remaining
four original and
continuous Senators
and the sole survivor
of the dozen lawyers
who entered the first
Chamber. Although
he graduated under
S’Elliot Lewis —the
Speck’s boss Conser-
vative —Keating has
“advanced” ideas,
and so pleased the
Labor caucus in this
respect that a couple
of elections back it
ran only two candi-
dates for the three
vacancies and handed
Keating the third
vofb. He has also
the largest personal
following of any
Tasmanian legisla-
tor, and, although he
turned some of the
Nationalist voters
against him by forc-
ing the late election,
he was a good second
on the poll.
SENATOR
KEATING.
Groperland’s new Agent-General,-J. D.
Connolly, goes- to England via Canada and
the U.S.A. Mrs. Connolly and five daugh-
ters accompany him as far as Quebec, where
they will stay and put in time learning to
par'ley-voo until the submarine scare slackens.
Connolly, who made his pile contracting, is
a mild-eyed, elongated Australian bloke, and
looks more like an autumn poet than a suc-
cessful politician. He was member. for
Perth, and Hon. Minister in the late Wilson
Administration.
Edward Stone, Lient.-Governor and re-
tired Chief Justice of Groperland, and his
wife {nee Shenton) had their “golden wed-
ding” on July 13. The “six families”
turned out in force to tea and music, and
reminisced, between bites, anent the pre-
goldfields days when Perth was a select
sandpatch. There is a large Stone family;
one daughter is married to Tasmanian Judge
N. Iv. Ewing.
“Waihoi’s” send-off: —
Reefed his last sail, old Charlie Gore, well known
in Darwin and most parts of the Territory for close-
up 50 years. In the early ’7o’s he was storekeeping
with Dad, but before the present generation came
to- light Charles took to the water and was cutting
off corners or the northern coast in all sorts of
crafts, from dug-outs to antediluvian steamers. No
one could couTe within coo-ee of the old boy in
knowledge of mudbank and stray rock between Thurs-
day Island and Derby, rivers included. The old
Warrego, now a hulk in Darwin Harbor, had been
Gore’s home for the past year or so, and he made
it a floating library, for he was a tremendous reader.
Finish-up was heart failure when in a dinghy making
for Darwin’s one and only jetty—the jetty • where
the wily crocs, wait for the drunks from the Govern-
ment pubs to fall overboard.
Colin Travers, a young Gallipoli veteran
with a distinctively Australian sense of
humor, died last week- in Fiji as the result
'of a fall from a horse. Going to the war
from Sydney, he lost his stripes in Egypt
through inventing one of the best jokes of
the war. Marching his squad along the
road one day, he noticed an A.S.C. waggon
loaded with beer approaching. He promptly
halted his men, formed them up. and as the
beer swept past it got a Royal salute. A
wooden English staff-officer noticed the little
turn-out and wasn’t sport enough to grin
and forget it. The joker was reduced to
the ranks. Now the whole joke is over and
Roseville (Sydney) Rifle Club mourns for a
good shot.
Jock Garland, N.S.W. Solicitor-General,
orating in Sydney on France s Day, an-
nounced :—■
It is the intention of the Government to hand over
in perpetuity to the French Government the land at
La Perouse which contains the bones of the r rencn
navigator of that name.
There isn’t any such land. The monument
on the shores of Botany Bay, as its inscrip-
tion testifies, was erected _by the crews of
two French men-of-war, lying ih Port Jack-
son in 1824 or thereabouts, to mark the spot
from which the last news of La Perouse s
expedition was received. From relics found
40 years later, it seems probable that La
Perouse and his companions were ship--
wrecked at Vanikoro, in the New Hebrides;
but their actual fate is a mystery.
Edward Russell, Customs statistician,
who has died in Melbourne at 59, was a
kindly, dapper citizen with one interest in
life outside his business. That was daughter
-Una, who had leanings towards the stage.
In her chicken days Una studied toe-waving
and Voice-calisthenics, and father helped all
lie knew to theatrical success. He had many
pals able and glad to do something in the
way of press-publicity, so the clipping-book
grew fat. The biggest ad.., however, came
when yoUng Chia laid his prospects and
Wardrobe at the budding stage-star’s feet and
then upset things at the Chinese Consulate.
After the disaster, Mrs. Chia went off to
England, and it was her late dad’s intention
to join her there next year, oh his retiremeiit
from the service.
Benjamin Lee, the old Sydney “stipe” who
died a few days back, aged 91, came to Aus-
tralia in 1829. The father was soldier
who fought in the Peninsula Var and
in America, and returned to Europe just iff
time to miss Waterloo. The old chdp, who
lived in Parramatta for 50 years, and died
there, had a very large family, 14 of whom
arrived at the age of 21 years. Benjamin,
junior, started commercial life on the Hunter
and in 1864 was M.L.A. for West Maitland.
He sat until 1874, when he resigned to
become police-magistrate at Bathurst. Later
he was at the Water Police Court, Sydney,
till Dick O’Connor, then Minister for Jus-
tice, gave him a pension to get rid of his
increasing eccentricities. In Parliament he
never did anything to remember—except to
be one of the parties to an exciting scrap on
the floor of the House.
That eccentric citizen, Lord Clifford of
Chudleigh, Count of the Holy Roman Em-
pire, whom the Tasmanian elector firmly
and consistently turned down during his resi-
dence on the Speck, and who came in for
his title last year, recently unloaded a
sample of his eloquence before the House of
Lords. Judgment was delivered by Curzon,
leader of the shop: “I have seldom noticed
a wider gap between the subject on the
paper and the speech dealing with it.”
“Catkin”: Remem-
ber me writing about
a Richmond River
(N. S. W.) a b o.
liamed Roundtree
who landed here in
the Epsom (Eng.)
hospital with trench-
fe p t and double-
pneumonia? The
thought of it would
have been enough to
settle the average
abo. In fact, it would
have settled many a
white. But instead
of throwing in the
towel Roundtree
stuck it out, and
though he lost both
his feet, beat the
pneumonia. When I
last saw him he was
being wheeled round
the hospital grounds
looking as cheerful
as the rest of them.
He’ll be back in Syd-
ney before long, and
anyone after war
curios would do well
to collect him.
CAPTAIN
GLOSSOP ,
late of H.M.A.S.
Sydney.
Thackeray’s Phil-Fogarty, of the Fighting
Onety-Oneth, has relatives in Australia.
Tom, otherwise Thomas B. Fogarty, a Mel-
bourne solicitor, has just enlisted, being the
fifth of the family to join the colors. Lieut.
A. C. was killed in Gallipoli; Joseph P., a
regimental medical officer, won the M.C. in
France and the undying gratitude of two
brigades for the manner in which, regardless
of self, he dressed their wounds; Lieut. Paul
is with the British Army ; and Jim is one of
our own boys in Frarfce.
Missing since the raid on the British lines
in the Belgian sand dunes on July 10, Cap.
tain H. K. Ward, R.A.M.C., son of the
finest set of whiskers in Australian journal-
ism. Six years ago Capt. Ward went to
Oxford as N. S. Wales Rhodes scholar, and
at the last moment displaced Keith Heritage
—afterwards killed in action in Franco after
SENATOR “PADDY” LYNCH (W.A.), one
of Australia's most earnest Conseriptionists.
he had won his three stars and Military
Cross—in the Olympic sculling contest at
Stockholm. Ward gained his commission at
Aldershot, and in 1916 acquired an M.C.
and a smashed collar-bone in France. His
grand old father, by the way, fought in the
Maori War before he put on a clerical collar.
T, J. Roseby has been appointed secretary
to the Sydney Water and Sewerage Board,
Dtce Major-Geheral Holmes, killed in France,
The original Roseby, Thomas, a monumental
mason, settled in Sydney in 1840 and hgd
two sons born there. One is the well-known
scientist, Rev. Dr. ThOmaS, who has done
much astronomical wOtk; the Other, John,
now dead, followed bis father’s business in
GeOrge-stteet, and incidentally represented
Slioalhaven in the Leg. Assembly in 1877-
1882. The new Water Board secretary is
his son.
A hard-doer walked into Melbourne Town
Ilall recruiting depot the other day and
asked the M.O. to -give him the eyesight test
before submitting him to the physical one.
He got through on his right eye, and then
had a go with his left. “Bottom line?” asked
the M. 0., pointing to the chart. “Yes, sir—
APHLZ.” H’m. Now the second line—
backwards.” Then came disaster and the
discovery that the left eye was a glass one.
The lad was a returned Anzac anxious to
rejoin his pals. He had spent two days
learning the card by heart, like Admell
Drake, the hero of a similar tragedy in “The
Picaroons.” “Never mind,” he said, when
he was turned down. “I’ll give it a go some*
where else.”
Just died at Few (Vic.), old Matthew
Macalister, after whose father, Captain
Macalister the explorer, was named the rivet
on which stand the two Gippsland toWns of
Mafifra and Sale. Matthew, who was a life-
long friend of Allan McLean, once
of Australia, was a leading figure in the
stock and station trade. He and his wife
were called to England as witnesses in the
Tichborne case.
“1009” : Mention of Murray and Black
(B. 12/7/T7) reminds me of another man in
the same brigade who has been doing fast
time towards his field-marshal’s baton. He
is Corrigan, from the bush behind Zeehaii
(Tas.). Turned away from the first lot
owing to lack of previous military eXpei'l
ence, he got away with the original 15th
Battalion, and left Australia with them as
Corporal Corrigan, age 21. Some months
later, all that was left of the th Brigade
passed me on their way to the beach, Lem-
nos, and rest. With them, in charge of his
battalion, was Captain Corrigan. A few
months ago it was Major Corrigan who was
wounded in France.
Since the war began the N.S.W. Leg.
Council has lost by death no less than nine
members—lT. C. Dangar, Henry Gullett,
ITolborow, Kethel, Maclaurin, C. E. Pil-
cher, F. B. Suttor, W. J. Trickett and F.
E. Winchcombe. By the death of Mr. Dan-
gar, Dr. Creed and Henry Moses become
“Fathers” of the Council. They were
appointed on August 31, 1885. Dr. Mackel-
lar was appointed on the same day, but he
resigned in October, 1903, and stayed out-
side for a month.
THE YOUNG LIEUTENANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The young lieutenant’s face was grey.
As came the day
The watchers saw it lifting white
And ghostlike from the pool of night.
His eyes were wide and strangely lit.
Each thought in that unhallowed pit:
“I, too, may seem like one who dies
With wide, set eyes.”
He stood so still we thought it death,
For through the breath
Of reeking shell we came, and fire,
To hell, unlit, of blood and mire.
Tranced in a chill delirium
We wondered, though our lips were dumb,
What precious thing his fingers pressed
Against his breast.
His left hand clutched so lovingly
What none might see.
All bloodless were his lips; beneath,
The straight, white, rigid clip of teeth.
His eyes turned to the distance dim ;
Our sleepless eyes were all on him.
He stirred; we aped a phantom cheer.
The hour was here!
The young lieutenant blew his call.
“God keep us all!”
He whispered softly. Out hq led;
And o’er the vale of twisted dead,
Close holding that dear thing, he went.
On through the storm we followed, bent
• To pelt of iron .and the rain
Of flame and pain.
His wan face like a lodestar glowed
Down that black road,
And deep among the torn and slam
We drove, and twenty times again
He squared us to the charging hordes.
His word was like a hundred swords.
And still a hand the treasure pressed
Against his breast.
Our gain we held. Up flamed the sun.
“The ridge is won,”
He calmly said, and, with a sigh,
“Thank God, a man is free to die!”
He laughed at this, and so he passed.
His secret prize we knew at last,
For through his hand the jewel’s red,
Fierce lustre bled.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


TOBACCO
Australia's
National
Smoke
in Peace
and War
Cut (in Tins)
Flake or
Mixture
Also in Plug
Form
THE LAST WORD IN
CLMR)
pipes
Every
pipe Guaranty


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE. ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL. SPELTER, ZI>C
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILIGIOUS- ORES,- — containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
"-hy i,. ■,!,!
chosen the roofing for vour homestead d-iii vi, 0^ 01 an^on ® t° sa i I told you so” after you have
tried and its success recognised—a roofinr lint out . h ° u ®es- Choose a roofino- that has been
rust, sweat, crumble nor pinhole that will not' ff r ® sl^ t . elements—that will neither rot,
waterproof—that is cheaper than ealvaniJd ! {r« * t dnn ' <ni = water, yet at the same time bo
ADAMAX ASPHALTUMMnSr 0 h 'ii' Chea P to f,ei §' ht and easily handled.
‘■’Governttients of the' o^t™i t h*srJ?rJSSr The various
roofing, for they have used it in large ouantWes l i eh ADA^ fAX ROOFING is ,the ‘‘ldeal”
now or in the future, should write for Free ^ lccess ' c AH interested in roofings
WILLIAM ADAMS &CO i Tn „ V Booklet. The Adamax Senes” and samples.
* CO - «- t Dm Brisbane, Perth & Adelaide-
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERJURON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of St^T^Teillets, Blooms,
rue ura teel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
I nunnu -- BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland State Fire Insurance
Office, which began regular business early
in January, l!>05 (the deficit up to then
represents preliminary expenses) :
Ex- Added to
Dec., Revenue. Claims. peases. Reserves. Deficit.
1904.. —•— • £1,026 £1,026
Reserves.
x 905. . £13,136 £2,418 6,738 £3,980 2,954
1906.. 20,991 10,312 7,215 3,464 6,418
1907.. 23,302 12,701 8,355 2,246 8,664
1908.. 26,909 18,904 10,146 6,523
1909.. 34,038 18,535 10,155 5,348 11,871
1910.. 41,788 18,914 11,478 11,396 23,267
1911.. 48,930 27,537 13,125 8,268 31,535
1912.. 56,315 25,111 14,526 16,678 48,213
1913.. 61,281 27,975 1*5,847 17,459 65,672
1914.. 67,693 28,110 17,832 21,751 87,423
1915.. 76,299 27,476 19,562 29,261 116,684
1916.. 82,694 21,897 21,523 39,274 155,958
The loss ratio “is just over 10 p.c. lower
than the lowest previously experienced and
not much (if any) above half the average
normal loss ratio for the whole fire-insur-
ance business of the Dominion.” “It would
appear,” the general manager observes on
this, “that the war has had a marked influ-
ence on the destruction of property by firer*
I trust that this influence may lie perma-
nent.” The Bulletin doesn't quito know
whether to Say “Amen” to this pious remark
or not. On the whole the thing is a pretty
severe reflection on Maoriland. Two reflec-
tions, in fact. In the first place, Maoriland
is gorging on war money. Poor old J. Bull
is paying the Dominion millions for wool
and meat on the basis of war prices. Then,
though Maoriland is thus made fat, it has
the hardihood to tap J. Bull for the loan of
millions, for war purposes. Instead of bor-
rowing, in the circumstances Maoriland
ought to be lending. That is the first
reflection on Ward’s Dominion. The second
is that in the same Dominion things are, on
the average, only half as inflammable when
times are very good as when they are very
bad. That the general manager of the State
Fire Insurance Department should put this
on record surely calls for inquiry into the
crime-detection methods and machinery of
the islands.
i Of the past year’s revenue £77,609 was
the net premium income. The funds are
therefore an almost exact 200 p.c. of the
year’s premiums; and that is a position of
much greater strength than the average
front-rank British office discloses. But that
is, of course, only part of the strength of
this office; for behind every policy stands
the whole taxable wealth of the country and
the whole credit of the country as well.
Which ought to be good enough backing for
any policy-holder. The actual funds include
£65,254 in cash balances, £68,196 in Gov-
ernment securities, £25,991 in freeholds and
about £7OOO in mortgages and sundries.
Every penny of this has been accumulated
out of the profits of the business. Assuming
that £31,000 is required to re-insure current
risks, there is still left £125.060 to represent
the profits made out of 12 years’ trading on a
capital of £2OOO. For £2OOO was all that the
office ever asked for of the authorised
£100,0*10; and the trifle was paid back long
ago. Yet, though it is able to show this
amazing profit, the office insisted a year ago
that, as the result of its appearance on the
scene, rates had been so reduced that the
country had saved “considerably over
£2.000,000” in premiums in 11 years. But.
granting that the State office has done much,
whether it is wholly responsible for all this
is quite another question. As a matter of
fact, Maoriland had some very bad years
prior to 1904 and it has been having, on
the whole, a very prosperous time since;
and, as the general manager of the State
office points out, the calls on fire-insurance
offices in Maoriland (and other places too)
are governed largely by the circumstances
of the country —whether it is prosperous or
otherwise. It may be. quite true that had
fire offices charged M.L. the same, rates as
they had done previously, they would have
collected £2.000.000 more in 11 years. But it
is equally true that on what they did charge
previously, many offices showed a loss on
their M.L. business for,some years prior to
1905. From which the conclusion is that,
with a turn of the tide of prosperity in the
I >ominion, this office might feasily find that
its balance had slipped over to the wrong
side.
The Queensland National Bank :
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
Profits. Off. Depositors. Reserves.
June, 1909.. £44,158 £19,158 £20,000 £79,000
Dec.. 1909.. 44,432 19,432 20,000 84,000
June, 1910.. 45,626 20,626 20,000 89,000
Dec, 1910.. 46,174 21,174 20,000 94,000
June, 1911.. 46,275 10,275 30,000 100,000
Dec., 1911.. 47,542 11,542 30,000 106,000
June, 1912.. 48,159 36,159 118,000
Dec., 1912.. 48,179 36,179 130,000
June, 1913.. 48,214 36,214 142,000
Dec., 1913.. 49,915 37,915 154,000
Tune, 1914.. 50,090 38,090 166,000
Dec;, T 914. . ~ -38,104- 178.000-
June, 1915.. 51,746 39,746 190,000
Dec., 1915.. 50,536 40,536 200,000
June. 1916.. 51,398 39,398 212,000
Dec., 1916.. 51,458 41,458 222,000
June, 1917.. 51,896 51,896 222,000
Note a difference there. For some years past
general-manager Ralston has been transfer-
ring £lO,OOO or more pgr half-year to his
formal reserve fund; which meant that there
was at least £10,00(1 le§S available for
repaying the old private 'depositors. This re-
payment is theHkey. to th& position so far as
dividends are concerned. The private (as
distinguished from the Government) deposits
were divided into two parcels when the boom
burst and there was obviously not enough to
pay everybody everything. One lot of 15s.
in the £ \yas represented by interminable in-
scribed stocks: there was supposed to be
enough assets tb represent, that much. The
other os. was supposed to be lost; it had
been advanced on boom values that had dis-
appeared. This ss. was therefore to be pay-
able only out of future profits, and no divi-
dend was to be paid to shareholders until it
was all wiped out.
The g.m., however, had ideas beyond the
payment of this five,bob. He settled dowh_
to build up the bank; wherefore he has been
hanging, on tqyprofits in order 1 to give him-
- Self amt an int'erual 'reserve,
Now, apparently, he reckons that enough has
-been dotre that-way-; at any rate, that it is
no longer necessary to appropriate any of
the disclosed profit. So from this onward,
it seems, unless something unforeseen hap-
pens, all the disclosed profit will be avaifi
able for clearing the way to dividends.
What has been done and what remains to do
is shown in the next table: —
Current Repaid Balance
12 years Profits to in
to Appropriated. Depositors. Hand.
Dec., 1909. .£228,000 3/9 in £ = £194.475 £33,525
.June, 1910.. 20,000 53,525
Dec., 1910.. 20,000 9d. in £ = 38,642 34,883
June, 1911.. 30,000 64,883
Dec., 1911.. 30,000 Is. in £ = 51,527 43,356
•lime, 1912.. 36,159 6d. in £ --- 25,763 53,752
Dec., 1912.. 36,179 6d. in C = 25,762 64.169
June, 1913.. 36,214 9d. in £ = 38,643 61,740
Nov., 1913.. Special Is. in £= 50,900
Dec.. 1913.. 37.915 9d. in £ = 38.162 61.493
June, 1914.. 38,090 9d. in £ = 38,652 60,931
Dec., 1914.. 38,104 9d. in £ = 38,642 60,393
.Tune, 1915.. 39,746 9d.in £ = 38,500 61,639
Dec., 1915.. 40,536 9d. in £ = 38,786 63,389
June, 1916.. 39,398 9d. in £ = 38.642 64,145
Nov., 1916.. Special Is. in £1 = 50.900
Dec., 1916.. 41,458 9d. in £ = 43,269 62,334
June, 1917.. 51,896 Is. in £ = 51,527 62,703
£763,695 15/6 in £ = £802,792 £62,703
That is practically 17s. in the £ paid or pro-
vided for; and by the end ot next year the
shareholders may expect that the last hair of
the tail of the dead horse will have been
swept off the premises. And then-— —-
The capital is £480,000 in 160.000 shares
of £5, of which £2 is uncalled. The author-
ised capital is £2,000,000. In other words,
340,000 new shares may be issued. The
average profits in recent years have exceeded
£lOO,OOO p.a.; and the management is quite
satisfied that this does not over-state the
case. You get a straight tip to that effect
in the fact that, almost without a break,
each half-year’s disclosed profit is just a
little bit better than that of the one before.
Now, £lOO,OOO on a capital of £480,000 = just
over 20 p.c.; and no Australian bank with a
good knowledge of the way the cat jumps
will pay more than 10 p.c. nowadays. That
would absorb less than half the profits. The
question then arises whether the directors
should issue more capital, which would
strengthen the bank while incidentally ab-
sorbing more of the profits, or do the
strengthening by putting the whole of the
surplus profits to reserve, while leaving the
capital where it is. The capital should, in
this paper’s judgment, be increased. Apart
from the interminable inscribed stock
liability (£3,091,669), the Q.N. owes
£7,362,826: and capital and visible reserves
combined are only £702,000. English banks
certainly do have the use of £l2 or more of
the public’s money for every £1 of their
own ; but in Australia, where banking risks
are greater (because banking business is
different), 8 to 1 is reckoned a fair thing;
and an issue of £240.000 is fairly called for.
The 10 p.c. would then require £72.000 a
year; and on present appearances, as the
£240,000 of new capital would be earning
some of its own keep, the Q.N. could easily
do this. .... '* -
So far as eurfent business is concerned
the bank is well holding its own. Apai
from its large Government deposits it has
£5.644,389 of new private deposits, or nearly
half a million more than when the war
started. Advances are, however,
smaller (£0.310,393 as against £6.488.0nb
as at June, 1914). The money got m on
both sides has all gone to the Government
through one channel or another.
*
Edwards, Dxjni.op and Co.. Ltd. j.fc'jd"
ney), paper merchants and wholesale
stationers•
Dividends. „
To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. 5 p.c. prefs. Ordinaries, serves, serves
1915 # —.—
1916." .£37,561 £4325 10 p.c.=£25,423 £7,813 89,737
1917.. 40,861 4325 10 ~ „ 25,423 11,113 100,850
The accounts show a rather greater increase
of profit than that; but whereas in the pre-
vious term £2500 was appropriated on bonus
account, in the past year £4500 is carved out.
Apparently this bonus fund is for the benefit
of the staff —is. in short, in lieu of salaries
or wages ; wherefore the amounts that have
been set aside for the purpose have in the
table been deducted from profits. Even then
there is a profit much in excess of the divi-
"dend. The wide margin is partly due to the
fact that £86,509 of the capital calls for only
5 p.c. This, of course, is cumulative pref.
capital. Probably one or more of the old
interests in the business supplied this money.
That the return was fixed at 5 p.c. indicates
how solid a concern it was in the opinion of
those who knew most about the inside of it.
They evidently hold the same opinion still,
because, in spite of the change in the value
of money, recent quotations have been above
par,
It is only about a couple of years ago that
the co.’s stock was quoted on ’Change; and
at that time a balance-sheet was prepared to
exhibit the position as at April 30, 1915. The
reserves, as the table shows, were then a
very solid £81,924; and that was exclusive
of the bonus and provident fund before men-
tioned. But in a business of this kind visi-
ble reserves are not everything. Stock in
hand and in transit is valued in the accounts
at £229,402; and it is obvious that a tre-
mendous difference of opinion may exist as
to the fair value to put on paper and
stationery stock at a time like this. Stuff
that three years ago was worth £l2 per ton
is to-day worth, say, £3O. What ought that
stuff to be valued at? The usual formula is
“cost or under.” But how much under?
The very conservative manager puts it this
way. Stuff that cost us £l2 we have sold
for £3O. But we have in stock now stuff
that we bought at £3O, and may have to sell
for £l2. Therefore,, be will say, the probable
loss is likely to wipe out the apparent profit:
at any rate, he has to prepare for something
of the kind. Another manager may argue, with
a lot of forefe, that £3O is a fair value, and
that no provision need be made for losses on
realisation, because prices may be still
dearer, and that, anyway, they will not fall
suddenly. Where there are merchandise
stocks, and especially stocks whose price has
been largely affected by the war, it is, then,
obvious that the declared profit isn’t much to
go on in these times. The investor needs to
either get behind the counter and see actual
figures or find out the general reputation of
the management. What he will find out in
this case is that the last thing it is likely to
do is to forget to provide for contingencies.
There probably never has been a time in the
history of this trade in Australia when pro-
fits have been so large; and that E.D. and
Co. hasn’t shown more is unquestionably only
because it has been making internal provision
to protect itself against a possible but im-
probable sudden fall in the value of stock in
hand. If those contingencies don’t arise,
then of course the now undisclosed profit will
have to be shaken out some day. And the
day will probably come when, in consequence
of heavy taxation, a little bit up the sleeve
may be very handy indeed. Not so much
for this co. as for others which haven’t so
wide a margin between profit and dividend.
The co. has a capital of £254,231 in ordin-
aries and £86,509 in 5 p.c. cumulative prefs.
The reserves now exceed the pref. capital,
which means that the whole of the capital is
now available to earn dividends for the
ordinaries. The liabilities (trade creditors)
amount to £69,492. On the other side in
f ?. f , lc ij, t i°, r l. to . sto< ' k f: 229.402 and sundry debtors
£189,540. the co. has £80.598 in freehold and
£38,7 05 in cash and sundries.
* * * *
Wentworth Hotel. Ltd. (Sydney), was
ormed in April, 1912, to purchase the free-
hold of a well-known city hotel, extend the
premises and carry on the business. For
goodwill (including license) £8750 was paid
to the vendor, and £lOBl went in preliminary
exes. Ihe co. thus started with £9831 of
unrepresented by tangible assets.
Subsequent proceedings
In Reduction
April, Profits. Dividends, of Deficit. Deficit
1912.. -7. £9831
1913.. £3164 Nil £3464 gggy
1914.. 1682 Nil 1682 4635
Loss.
1*915.. 634 Nil 5319
Profit.
1916.. 310 Nil 310 5009
Loss.
1917.. 733 Nil 5749
The bigger part of the trouble is that the
first-class hotel in Australia gives too much
for the money—or, rather, doesn’t get enough
money for what it gives. Actually the wages
and other exes, of running a hotel here are
greater than in London and almost as much
as in the average American city; but the
Australian tariff is only from one-lndf to
two-thirds the English or American for equal
accommodation and service. This co. had
either rotten luck or rotten judgment. Mr*.
Maclurcan had been making a very fair
thing out of the Wentworth for years—the
figures were in the prospectus. On the
strength of those figures the co. came in just
at the moment when exes, started to climb
up. hand over fist. On top of that fell the
war. which stopped the oversea traffic out
of which the Wentworth got nice pickings.
“Until after the war,” the directors say, “no
hope of reasonable profits can be held out.”
In this paper’s judgment it will take some-
thing more even than the stopping of the
war to produce reasonable profits.
One handicap is that the co. is, for its
size, pretty heavily loaded with liabilities:—
1914. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities . . . . £26,394 £23,585 £23,217
Freeholds . . . . 35,791 35,791 35,791
Leaseholds . . . . 2,527 2,696 2,696
Furniture, etc.\,„ ~, 15,829 13,087 11,665
Stocks, cash, etc, . . 2,563 2,001 2,321
In’ effect the co. has about £21,500 of pref.
capital, on which it has to provide a divi-
dend. It has done this, and in three years
has, besides, reduced the liabilities by £8177.
Meantime, however, furniture, etc., have
been depreciated by £4164. Which means
that, taking the reduced value of furniture
into account, the co. lias fallen about £lOOO
short of making enough to pay interest on
its debts since the war started.
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria
from the time capital was reduced to £58,308
by the return of 12s. per share: —
Profit Profit on
on Property Total Dividend. Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. (20 p.c.) serves.
Dec., 1911.. £1165 £2056 £3221 £14,577 £37,964
(6 p.c.)
June, 1912.. 859 2126 2985 1,749 39,200
Dec., 1912.. 1868 30 1898 1,749 39,349
Loss. (8 p.c.)
June. 1913.. 2347 10 2337 2,332 39,354
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1913.. 2704 187 2891 2,679 39,566
June, 1914.. 2560 137 2697 2,679 39,584
Loss. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1914.. 2668 85 2583 2,679 39,488
June, 1915.. 2473 164 2309 2,679 39,118
(6 p.c.)
Dec., 1910. . 2007 10 2497 2,296 39,319
June, 1916... 2282 2282 2,296 39,305
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1916. . 2907 195 3102 2678 39,729
June, 1917.. 2714 83 2797 2678 39,848
The Freehold Assets Co. bought most of the
shares in this disastrous land-boom concern,
and is slowly winding it upl The following
small table shows what progress is being
made
June,’l4'. June,’l6. June,’l7.
Mortgages .. .. £27.443 £31,974 £30,211
Balancesowing.. .. 45,054 26,103 21,856
Cash, debentures, etc. .. 46,541 60,412 67,384
Total assets . . £119,038 £118,489 £119,451
Liabilities . . .. 30 30 30
Net assets . . £119,008 £118,459 £119,421
As the old written-down properties are
realised the proceeds are put into un-
specified securities —mostly things vaguely
described as “debts” and “shares in other
cos. (at cost).” The accounts are equally
vague about the source of the income—
whether any of it is from sales or whether
all of it is from investments. If some of it
comes from sales of written-down proper-
ties, there will presumably be a shrinkage
when there is no more written-down property
to sell. \\ hatever it comes from it is prac-
tically all gone by the time the dividends are
paid.
The South Aus. Land Mortgage and
Agency Co. :
t „ . Towards
' rofits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
190s' ' n’n-o - Nil £15,804 £14,167
innn" 2 2’2 53 5 p.c. =£6,955 13,098 27,26?
7 J >' » 10,433 7,300 34,56$
19 J.°** 18,99 a 74 „ „ 10.433 8,562 43,127
Debenture issue expenses written off, £ 6971. . 36.156
1911.. 12,906 74 p.c.= 10.433 2.473 38,629
lola" 2’2 82 5 ” ” 6 ’ 955 38,256
1913.. 8,729 5 „ „ 6,955 1,774 40,030
Dec.,
J 913.. 3,003 10 „ „ 6,955 36,078
1914.. 6,431 5 „ „ 6,955 35.554
oic" 5 ,«> ” fi ,955 649 36,203
1916.. 8,049 6i„ „ 8,693 36.059
lhis co. is nearly all English-owned; its
head-office is in London and its land invest-
ments are divided between Queensland and
S. Australia. There was a time when it
was a big gun in the pastoral-finance busi-
ness. Its own capital was £600.000 or


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
W estirvghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbine*
and Turbo-Sets up to 10,000 Kilowatts.
fftfopf)OU*f
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia :
| Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne. 11l
I'hePacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
» Britain .. 8/. ~9
New Zealand.. 4}d.
Canada ..8,4 1,2 j&fSSJST,
U.S. A 2/4 to 2/8 l/2to 2/4 { J woS)
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Btreet, Bydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen's House, Queen Bt., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, l
Have you installed , a G.E. Voltage Regulator on
your system? If not,’ by doing so you can reduce
your operating expenses, because a single regulator
will control satisfactorily all the generators and
exciters in the station when operating in parallel,
thus not only decreasing,your staff and reducing your
wage bill, but also increasing your output whilst
lessening your expenditure. Write us for particulars.
Australian General Electric Company, Sydney and
Melbourne.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
< ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather fov drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why - not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. fhev have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
Pioneer Wood Pipe has made a name for itself.
It has proved to be the finest pressure pipe, as well
as the most efficient conduit for all kinds of fluids,
hot or cold. Pioneer Wood Pipe is the cheapest
satisfactory piping to buy. Send for illustrated cata-
logue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited,
(H. 0.) 57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to all
State Governments. Factories: Lane Cove River,
N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
—Advt.
For alterations or additions to buildings Asbesto-
lite stands alone—most durable, most handy and
most economical of all building materials. Write
for booklet to-day. Spriggs’ Asbestolite Co., 338
Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt. [2
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Denby Motor Lorries selected as the best by
America’s postal officials. An inscription on the
New York Post Office reads: “Neither snow nor rain
nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers
from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.’’
And the “Denby” does it! Several models
from Australian stocks. Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
head office: The Quay, Sydney. Australian Machinery
Co. Ltd., 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* #■ * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £260,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,236
Paid-up Capital .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. R. CAVR, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
OR IMMEDIATE SALE.
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHER,
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
THE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Dally Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney ;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobal
Samionit*
Qalattna Dynamite
Gelignite
Sleeting Gelatine
Dynemlte
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
thereabouts, and it owed the public
£1.500,000, mostly money raised on deben-
tures. But the smash came when the in-
considerate people wanted their cash back;
and with wool about one-third its present
price there seemed no hope of recovery, so
two-tliirds of the share capital was written
oft as gone for ever. And it was gone for ever ;
there have' been no recoveries to speak of,
and as the co. has difficulty in paying any-
thing more than 6 p.c., it doesn’t look as
though the assets are under-valued much
now. Present share capital is £139.102; and
liabilities of all kinds total £84,143. On the
other side the station properties (including
stock) are valued at £152,819. and public
securities £93,569; the balance of £34,000,
less current dividend, is represented by mort-
gages, balances outstanding, wool in transit
and sundries. The co. isn’t left with the
pick of Australia, by any means ; yet, handi-
capped as it is, it ought to show something
more than 6 p.c. for the next year or two.
Among its handicaps is the fact that it is
paying double income tax. "British and
colonial income tax and land and absentee
faxes” took £5916 last year, say 42 p.c. of its
income. This year, on an equal gross revenue,
it will probably be 50 p.c.
* * * *
G. D. Meudell writes from San Francisco:
. Moving amongst oil men one hears daily predic-
tions about the coming shortage of oil—of crude
petroleum and all its products, from petrol to lubri-
cating oils and tar. California is producing 40,000
barrels a day less than it uses, so the shortage is
1,200,000 barrels of 42 gallons each per month. In
10 months from now there will be no oil reserves
in California to draw upon to supply an increasing
demand. The oil-well people say they cannot in-
crease present supply because they have not the
proved oil lands to drill. The shortage of oil is so
acute that two of the great railroads which use oil
on their locos, are turning back to coal, perhaps
finely pulverised coal, the new fuel here. No
new drilling of wells is anywhere in progress except
on a limited area of proved land. The Federal autho-
rities withdrew large tracts from use on the plea
that the oil contained would be needed for the
American Navy. The Government has also been
suing for the return of certain oil areas, and litiga-
tion has frightened drillers. Petrol is certainly
only lOd. a gallon, and kerosene in bulk only
4sd. a gallon. But these prices may easily double, and,
if they do, so will the prices of petrol and kero-
sene sold retail in Australia. Therefore this ques-
tion of boring Australia thoroughly for oil becomes
one of grave national importance. Leading oil
operators, oil chemists and oil engineers, as well
as oil geologists, affirm emphatically that petroleum
ought to be found in Australia. There is nothing
against its existence geologically. Surely, then, the
opinions of three or four State geologists who have
never seen an oil field or a modern oil drill ought
not to be allowed to block the search.
And meantime what about the shale-oil
deposits in the N. S. Wales Blue Moun-
tains? They have not to be “proved.” They
are known to be not only the largest but the
richest in the world. It is a national dis-
grace that, practically, nothing is being done
with them.
* * * *
Mount David (N.S.W.) is just about out
of wind and has consequently secured a three
months’ spell to discover whether it will re-
cover or snuff out. Its last div.—s p.c.—
was handed round in 1903. Only -Jd. per
share remains to be called up; but if the
show succeeds in raising a little more cash it
will resume activity in the lower levels.
Meanwhile there is nothing doing in shares
at 2d.
* » # #
Bourke’s Hill Tin (N.S.W.) announces
a sixpenny after a three-years’ drought. The
last clean-up was 10 tons 16cwt. oxide for
five weeks, following 6 tons 19cwt. for four
weeks. There are 45,000 shares, so the six-
penny will cost £1125. The troubles have
been increasing costs, the slump in the metal
market at the end of 1914, and scarce labor.
At the very moment when the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment was spending public money in build-
ing monkey-cages to keep men employed,
this co. had one of its plants shut down for
want of workers. But of course you can’t
get to a picture-show every evening at
Bourke’s Hill.
Mahon, lately Prime Minister Hughes’s
colleague, but always Hughes’s mistruster,
lias, so it is said, been put into a comfort-
ably-lined job—that of administrative officer
of a new Mine Producers’ Assoc. What its
job is to be isn’t clear. It can’t be to fight
the Ministry to get things on behalf of the
big mine producers; for the big mine pro-
ducers are also the smelters, and even smelt-
ers, whose appetites are famous the world
over, couldn’t reasonably ask for more than
has been thrown at them. Who is the Mine
Producers’ Assoc.—or whatever its name
may be?
From Westonia :—•
Edna May’s financial position is not so good as
might appear from the accounts made up to April 30
last. The profit on working account is given as
£47,582; but as £2500 was spent on the main
shaft during the half-year and included in the bal-
ance-sheet as an asset, the actual profit on working
account is clearly £ 2500 less. Incidentally, assets
oieated out of profits, such as the recent additions to
this main shaft, are liable for income-tax. But if the
expenditure is charged direct to working account it
is not taxable; and the compiler of Edna May
accounts might bear this in mind in future. After
abowing for bank debit and credit balances, sundry
debtors and creditors, and manager’s cash account
and gold in transit, the co. had on May 1 approxi-
mately £4830 (less say £3750 for Federal and
State taxation) with which to meet the May dividend.
A noteworthy feature is the value of stores on hand
£5711.
The lode in Deeps has been struck in the crosscut
at 566 ft. (No. 2) level, and so far as. disclosejLJ.t is
pi ofitless. The first lOdwt. will be necessary to"i4icct
expenditure, and so far the lode is not worth R&vvt.
kveiy other Yilgarn gold deposit had come a cropper
at 500 ft.; but it did look at one time as if the run
of bad luck was to be broken at last.
Economical management wig not alone make a
mine. And unless the Central strikes better values
than shareholders have beep favored with during
tlie past 12 months, the co. ;will be included in the
obsequies that are approaching in connection with
several Westonia ventures.
A little good ore is being Exposed in Consolidated,
and as a battery is being erected on the mine the
stock is likely to have a flutter.
Central manager Giblin recently reported on the
Leonora Gold Blocks and apparently approached,that
delusion sympathetically. He suggested a’ t&licy
that means reconstruction. • ... ‘*2
* * *
mnnlw Doe P s dresses its window with
19,000 tons of ore at 480 ft. worth “about”
Pl r and “probably another 5000 tons
worth 20s. per ton.” Costs on the field don’t
get down to 255., so what is the use of
reckoning in the £1 stuff? Cut that out,
estimate costs at 255. per ton—Mick Wil-
liams’s bedrock— and £7500 remains. This
as a set-off against the £lO,OOO of debentures
leaves a debit of £2500 with which to start
the new level. Respecting that working,
Stuckey advises that he has run into 2oz.
stone. He needed it badly. His last bulle-
tin on the blackboard in Melbourne on
Saturday morning advised: “No more re-
ports this week.” Remarked Bill Dawson:
“Sunday for prayers.”
* * * *
Langi Logan South has a report from
George Bryant that the move to stop calls and
shut down on development won’t work. So
Bryant has to recommend rushing into
development and calls, or else (though he
doesn’t say this) shutting-up shop. On what
is ahead he writes: —
Since entering wash the number of fathoms
obtained from the different wash drives and extrac-
tion works total 2636, which yielded 26460 z. of gold,
average loz. per fathom. I have therefore no hesita-
tion in saying that with a continuation of present
values you have a profitable mine, which when
thoroughly opened up, drained and worked on system-
atic lines, with a full staff, will return fully 20 p.c.
profit.
Nicely put! First prove you have ounce
ground, next drain it, thirdly work it on
systematic lines, and, lastly, get a full staff.
Then 20 p.c. profit. But 20 p.c. on what?
On the loz. per fathom got when everything
is 0.K., or 20 p.c. profit on the expenditure to
that date. Whatever it is it all depends on
the “continuation of loz. ground.” That has
to be proved ; and 2600 fathoms tested from
a gutter 600 or 700 feet wide is a mere speck
on a mountain.
* * * #
Mining for magnesite has begun in Vic.
in a small way. The mine or quarry is at
North Redesdale, north-east of Kyneton; and
the possibilities of the business have made
Minister of Lands Lawson sit up, Redesdale
being in his electorate. He has arranged
for a departmental mining-expert to inspect.
Last year (1916) Cloncurry produced
10,908 tons copper valued at £1,149,328.
This great mineral region is developing
splendidly. Most important changes have
lately taken place in the Hampden and Mt.
Elliott’s Hampden Consols, where extensive
basic ore has been proved in the two adjoin-
ing leases at 500 ft. and 480 ft. In the Con-
sols the ore has been developed northwards
towards the boundary of the Hampden, and
a crosscut in one place to the hanging wall
discloses a splendid make. The stope over
this crosscut shows 50ft. of good stuff in one
place.
The chief point of interest at Mt. Morgan
(Q.) at present is the sintering of the con-
centrates. Recent experiments with the
Dwight-Lloyd mechanical sinterer are favor-
able, in spite of gloomy prophecies.
The establishment of electrolytic smelting
works in Hobart by De Bavays. which is
already producing metallic zinc from Broken
Hill concentrates, and the fact that the Read-
Rosebery co. will shortly erect a plant at
Zeehan for the treatment of local ores, has
stimulated interest in zinc properties on the
west coast of the Speck. There are many
large sulphide and zinc-blende lodes that
were useless under old conditions; but now
that cheap power has encouraged the intro-
duction of electrolytic methods, many of these
lodes might be profitably worked. The Gil-
lies process, claimed by its always-optimistic
backers to be far better than the Anaconda,
which will be used by the Rosebery-Read and
L>e Bavays, should shortly be started at
North-West Bay, near Hobart. This co. has
lately taken over the old Jupiter mine, near
Rosebery, one of the richest sulphide bodies
on the Read-Rosebery line. The mine has
already been fairly well opened up and
formerly supplied large orders to the Tas-
manian Smelting Co. at Zeehan, when that
German institution was running. De Bavays
have also taken options over zinc proper-
ties at Zeehan, although they originally pur-
posed dealing with Broken Hill concentrates
only, and met with some opposition in con-
sequence. But it won’t be a good thing if
this crowd gets control of many mines.
There is plenty of ore in Tasmania to keep a
custom smelter going, and it will be far bet-
ter for the producer to have a choice of
buyefs.
* » * *
Mount Lyell, which is fathering the co. to
work the Hercules-Primrose group, expects
to get power from the King River. Surveys'
have shown that at least 20,000h.p. can be
harnessed up in the gorges of the King, and
the Government will this session ask
authority to carry out the work.
* * * *
The boom in iron is making the Speck
scratch its head and wonder why it didn’t get
busy in time ; A good start was made with
smelters at York Town, on the lower Tamar,
back in the 70’s. These turned out about
20,000 tons of iron which sold very well in
Victoria and elsewhere. Then they began to
find that there was too much chrome in the
ore and the industry died. There are mil-
lions of tons of ore thereabouts still. More
recently about 40,000 tons running 66 or 68
per cent, of metallic iron was shipped from
Penguin, on the NAV. Coast; but that busi-
ness dropped off, too, and Tassy’s iron is still
waiting for someone to come and take hold of
it.
* * * •
As a sort of send-off to its managing direc-
tor, Malcolm Newman, who, having returned
from Malaya, has gone into the Engineers’
camp in Sydney, Larut Tin Dredging. Ltd.,
publishes a report covering his last 12
months’ work. To the end of May 478.000
cub. yds. had given 228 tons oxide = 1.0711 b.
per yard. A first div. of Is. 6d. was paid on
April 30. Newman, in a very informative
report, remarks that he is “no great believer
in the fetich of costs per yard, believing that
low costs do not necessarily mean maximum
profits.’ He is known to be dissatisfied with
Malayan recoveries in general, and has
aimed at improving them. On an average
of 85,000 yds. per month he estimates the
Larut outlay in Malaya at 2£d. to 3d. But
some costs are beyond their control. “The
Malayan Government lately considerably in-
creased the royalty on tin, the increase being
for patriotic purposes for the duration of
the war. We are paying £BOO to £9OO per
month in taxation as‘royalty to the Govern-
ment.” The smelting cos. have also put up
rates: “We pay more than half as much
again for the smelting and realisation of
our concentrates.” Labor (Chinese) troubles
are likewise becoming more frequent, “and
demands for increased wages., are by no
means uncommon.” Also “conflicts between
the rubber-planting and dredging interests
seem to be unavoidable” ; but, being a mining
man, Newman naturally hopes that “the fact
that even a one-dredge mine like Larut con-
tributes so largely to the tax collections will
not be forgotten.”
**• * •
Another effort is to be made to work the
terraces and flats on thie Yodda goldfield
(Papua). The latest scheme is to instal
elevators and sluice the gjround, which to a
man who has been over jthe field seems a
sensible plan. The old Effort. was to tote
several hundred tons olf * in-
cluding a boiler that scaled Jive tons, over
the track that leads for its first five miles
through the swamps behind Buna Bay, and
even if they had shifted the bulky machinery
through the 50-odd miles of flat country
there would have been the Jump Up to nego-
tiate—a range of mountain over 1600 ft.
high. Water-power is assured by several
permanent creeks, a large area is available
for treatment, and the gold is known to be
there.
Westraha employed 10,903 in its mining
industry last year, or about 1600 less than
in the year before. Gold mining absorbed
9824, of which East Coolgardie (Kalgoorlie)
found work for nearly one-half. Murchison
headed the other fields with 1125, and Gas-
coyne was whipper-in with 6. The remain-
ing 1079 men were engaged in winning min-
erals other than gold, and of these tin
employed 235, copper 113, lead ore 244, coal
458 and miscellaneous 29.
Last year the Westralian mining industry
“accidentally killed” 22 men and injured 874
more. About half of the fatalities occurred
at Kalgoorlie and Boulder. Falls of eartn
and miscellaneous tumbles accounted for
most of tne victims. No estimate is given
of hbw many were stricken with miners'
complaint or how many funerals it brought
about. No estimate ever is given.
* * * *


HEERIHG®
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
ais
aid tfc Gsrtdcir
Expression '/"
GgdcL
PAULINE et CIE
Denison House Chambers,
George Street, SYDNEY,
Announce their
Half-yearly Half-guinea Sale.
SORELLE
announce the opening of their
Spring Show
at their Rooms, T. & G. Buildings,
Park Street, Sydney.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
“Better
than Either’
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia—
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, July 23, 1917.
My Dead Alum, —
Chief Justice Henry George Richards, of
the High Court of the North-western Pro-
vinces of India, who has been getting some
winter sun in Sydney, is the third genera-
tion of his family to sit on the bench. His
father was Judge of the County Court,
Mayo, Ireland, and his father, John
Richards, grandfather of the Indian Judge,
was one of the Judges of the Supi'eme Court
of Madras. He took that wig off in 1835 to
become Solicitor-General for Ireland. Later
he was Attorney-General, succeeding Sir
Michael O’Loghlen, father of the late Sir
Bryan, of "Melbourne. In fact, by a remark-
able coincidence, John Richards was the
immediate successor of Michael O’Loghlen
as Solicitor-General, Attorney-General and
Bai’on of the Exchequer. When Baron
Richards reached the bench his colleague
was Baron John Leslie Fostei’, who was
grandfather of oxir own late Justice “Water-
jug” Foster.
Lady Newdigate Newdegate, two young-
daughters, a mountain of baggage and soine
maids are expected here this week. They’ll
go overland to Melbourne —unless there’s a
revoke —and catch the first boat to Tassy.
Slim, boyish-looking Clive Miller, son of
Denison, of the Commonwealth Bank, has
beeix killed in France. Enlisting as a driver
he got away in Octobei’, 1914, when Aus-
tralia was so new to war that it hardly
knew how to order its campaign boots.
Having been through all that was best and
worst of the Peninsula, his eggshell-china
appearance when he got back to Sydney
marked him out as a fxxture non-combatant.
The A.I.F. declined him for further sendee;
but he presently went to England, got a com-
mission. married Miss Chubb (of the safes),
and put in about seven months with the
guns befoi'e his bullet found him.
Richard Binnie, who died the other day,
was a wealthy city man with big interests in
N. S. Wales station property. His home,
Linlithgow, on the brow of Point Pipei’, was
one of the most picturesque of Sydney’s man-
sions, with a view that seemed to pierce the
sunrise on the Pacific blue. The handsome
widow was a Tasmanian girl, Miss Toby,
and a nurse by profession.
Dr. Gilruth, reappointed Administrator of
the Northern Territory, was in Sydney last
week saying good-bye; by this time he is
sailing past the coral reefs. He isn’t “His
Excellency” any more; but it wasn’t a
wrench for the long horse-doctor to shed that
superfluity. Mrs. Gilruth has been living
at Darwin while successive Governments
have kept her big Scotch husband hanging
about on departmental doormats down south.
Stella Power, the Melbourne girl who has
been under Melba’s wing at the Conserva-
torium in the southern city, trills like a
thrush. She sang at the Madrigal Society’s
concert (Arundel Orchard in charge) and
furnished amazing surges of music. The
voice is pure, and light with the lightness of
thistledown. It seems to blow like a puff of
melody xxp and down the vocal complications
of “Bel Raggio.” After the war Stella is
likely to do something ti’emendous. I don’t
know what, but certainly tremendous.
One of the season’s prettiest brides, Enid
Lloyd, stepped up St. Philip’s on her
father's ai’m the other evening. She is a
fair-haired ci’eam-and-roses sort of girl, and
looked like a lily in her foamy white drapery.
No wonder it was a vei’y proud young man,
Lieut. Rollo Williams, who produced the
ring! Rollo is the stepson of Dr. Creed.
M.L.C., and, as I told you, was so damaged
on Gallipoli that a home-defence job seemed
to be his future lot. But he is a sound man
again, and off to the Front shortly. Brides-
maids Dorothy Lloyd and Phyllis Blaxland,
in apricot finery with black-velvet millinery,
were supported by two youthful soldiers.
Lieuts. Springhalt and Little. A strip of
purple silk on the ’groomsman’s khaki repre-
sented the Military Cross. Yet he looked
like a boyish cadet playing at soldiers in the
winter holidays. After church the party
walked across to Petty’s. Colonel and Mrs.
Bob Owen came from Bowral for the event;
and they and Commander Dunne, R.N., and
his nice-looking lady, the “Sapper” Lees and
other old fi’iends crowded l’ound to wish the
hei’oine good luck.
Mrs. Hope Osborne, the handsome widow
of this State, is well on her way to Monte
Video to marry the gallant captain who has
a job in the embassy there.
Captain Glossop, who whacked the Em-
den, had to reply at a civic lunch to the
toast of his health —which appears to be ot
the best —as proposed by Acting-Premier
Fuller the other noon. A slender, fresh-
complexioned sailor, he nervously cleared
his throat, shifted his feet, and anchored
himself to the tablecloth before he got into
action. Then he covered the Australian
navy with glory, and (incidentally) heaped
coals of fii’e on the anti-Australian jingo
who once spoke with scorn of a “tinpot”
fleet.
This mid-week Gwen Hanbury Davies
marries Firleigh Greig, whose headquarters
are Bombay. The busy father —a great Red
Cross worker —will make time to give his
girl away at St. Mark’s.
Brenda Walkeden, who is now a Canai’y
Cottager under the name of Brenda Hope, is
the pretty daughter of a strikingly handsome
mother, who used to be Clara Cunningham.
Three of the Cunningham brothers are the
beauteous Roland of “Merry Widow” fame,
the tenor Robert, and the literary Di\ Ed-
ward, who prescribes for Melbourne Aegtjs.
Brenda owns a fine dramatic soprano voice.
Scene, a stationary hospital in Boulogne
(France). Time, about 8.45 p.m., just a
quarter of an hour before the youthful and
flirtatious V.A.D. was going off duty. She
was hanging l’ound the telephone evidently
expecting a ring. At 8.45 the bell tinkled.
But the matron happened to be passing at
the time and answered the ’phone in spite of
the V.A.D.’s offers. “Hullo, is that you,
dai’ling?” said a very military voice at the
other end. The matron looked round at the
uncomfortable V.A.D. “Probably not,” she
snapped, and put down the receiver.
Emma Franeeschi, the Lismore doctor’s
singing daughter, made her first slither in
grand opera last week. Santuzza, in “Caval-
leria,” is a slippery part for a debutante,
and the Italian temperament makes no
allowance for beginners. Thus it hap-
pened that Degradi, hurling her to the
ground, did it so heartily that the
novice—much lighter in weight than the
lady who usually takes the part —slid
along the stage towards the footlights. This
was her worst expei’ience. Except nervous-
ness. That horror she seemed to clutch with
a trembling hand gripping her bodice. As
an emotional actress Emma probably put up
a record for a first appearance. And she
sang sweetly enough, too, but for the imp
that caught her throat. , A crowded house
shouted its approval; and the stage was
abloom with flowers when the curtain rolled
up after the climax. Two white doves flut-
tered out of one posy, and with great com-
posure retired under a canopy of wattle.
This dark-eyed lady
is Mrs. C. J. Dennis,
who recently ac-
quired the Senti-
mental Bloke. She is
an attractive missus,
and the bard calls
her —no, not Doreen ;
Madge! After the
’mooning up North
the Dennis pair will
return to a Victorian
bush-home.
Rupert Furber, son
of that T. F. Furber
who carried out most
of the trigonomet-
rical survey of N. S.
Wales, has received
the D.S.O. He and
a younger brother
are both majors in the A.A.M.C.
“Willy” Dunlop, one of the managing
principals of the Edwards-Dunlop firm,
leaves for England and khaki this week: he
intends to have the new suit on within a
fortnight of landing. One day last Week
half the “heads” of Sydney’s wholesale
houses had a long, long lunch with the ever-
smiling William P.; and that was only one
of half a dozen send-offs. For years and
years and years he was president of the
Tennis Assoc., and that body had to say he
was a jolly good fellow, too. And a fellow
with an amazing memory, by the way. If he
hadn’t been born to sell paper by the ton, he
might have developed his photographic brain
and been now doing a turn at the ’alls. He
goes via U.S.A., and Mrs. Willy goes with
him as far as Honolulu.
The War Trophies exhibition, with North
Sydney’s V.A.D.’s to pour out tea, stayed
open longer than it was first scheduled for.
One of the minor thrills was a German
moustache binder. Now we know how the
Kaiser gets his spiky insignia of Hate. He
puts it to bed o’ nights in a little curved cave
that is stuck on his snai’ling upper lip. The
ti*ophy, snatched from the war zone, was
actually used by a Hun officer the nig it
before a battle.
Mrs. R. R. Dight and daughter Roberta
ai’e in Chelsea- —home of many palettes.
Nearly every male member of the artist claxi
capable of active service is on one or other
of the Fronts. Mrs. John Walker, wite o
the Scotchbyterian parson now in Ballarat,
was a handsome Miss Dight in the long ago.
Bhe had five sons in khaki, but the number
is cut down to three, I fancy. The other
two have answered the last roll-call.
Here is a May
Moore impression of
the Sentimental
Bloke, now travel-
ling with his own
Doreen towards the
top of Australia. It’s
a lean, earnest coun-
tenance, with a pair
of honest grey eyes,
that C. J. Dennis
turns to a world
which throws him
encores every time.
He confesses that he
hoped to sell 500
copies of the Bloke,
and wanted to pub-
lish it by subscrip-
tion —the first resort
of the man who
under-estimates his stuff. But it didn’t
happen that way. Fifty thousand copies
have been passed round in two years, and
the prospects are that it will spread like
thistledowm when the world is less busy with
munitions.
One day last week the Palladium buzzed,
afternoon and evening, for the Returned
Blind Soldiers’ Fund. The carnival was
organised by Phyllis Hopwood-Foldi, who
sat near the throne (on w 7 hich Prof. Andy
Stuart held the sceptre) in tricorne mil-
linery and raven drapery. Mr. Rich having
introduced the king of the Medical School,
the latter took most people’s breath away by
giving 11 as the number of blinded soldiers
in Australia. This proportion of our men
who have lost their eyesight in the greatest
fight of all the ages is so small as to be
almost unbelievable. Yet Professor Andy
doesn’t make many errors in arithmetic.
The show itself was an amazing success, and
the public, with France’s Day just behind it,
surged round the raiders. Nellie Stewart
dressed a doll for the affair, Melba signed
her name to a picture, and Tempest
gave an exquisite little Louis XIV. fan.
The lady in chai’ge of this treasure hinted
darkly that, though a reserve of a mere £5O
was on the little ivory sticks, they hoped to
auction it for £lOO. George Marlow lent
his aid as treasurer and hon. overseer, and
R. Thomas was hon. sec.
Mrs. R. Windeyer and a couple of daugh-
ters send a cooee from the other side. They
are watching two fine young sprats—Cadet
C. R. Windeyer (now at Cambridge) and
his brother, who is at the Royal Naval Col-
lege, Dartmouth, in training to catch mac-
kerels.
R. W. Sandford, son of the old ironmaster
of Lithgow, has ascended to the height of
flight-commander. Seaplanes are his love.
The Anzac Buffet has received so many
testimonials that it is up to the Mamma
State to give Ada Reeve the £5OOO she’s
after. Victoria handed out that amount
quick and lively. N. S. Wales has been too
eager for France’s Day to do very much yet
for the “little bit of Australia” where our
men on leave in London get a good meal
for nothing, unless they choose to put some-
thing in the till as a gift. But part up now!
Ada will show you how to do it at her
Anzac matinee, Tivoli, on Friday, Aug. 3.
At the Consei-vatorium the stage was
abloom with flowers after pianist Winifred
Bui’ston’s recital. Beethoven, Brahms and
Cesar Franck were served up with such
relish that even the Highbrows were moved
to demand a second helping. Dymphna
Kirkaldie, an elegant yoxxng person who floats
into song (she had some lessons awhile ago
from Melba), was the Voice.
In the suburbs France’s Day is waning
towards twilight. Paddington had its fling
in a juvenile matinee ball on Saturday.
Consxxl Chayet handed over the prizes, and
mamma Brunton looked on while daughter
Dorothy axxd Mrs. H. D. Mclntosh, adjudi-
cators, l-etired exhausted from their labors.
It is no _picnic to hand the cake to the best
oxxt of 500 or 600 restless kiddies. But
there was one feature that left no
doubts. This was a fascinating little
maid, Baby Clonan, as a caged canai’y,
with little Ken Hogarth as the cat
in attendance —one of the best fancy-
dress efforts of the season. A special prize
went to the bird. Miss Rose Lyons, the hon.
organiser, will have a handsome cheque to
hand the French-Australian League.
A Mosman lad, Lieut. Dimond, of the
Field Artillery, is amongst the latest to win
the Military Cross. He spent a few days'
leave in London recently with his pre-war
“skipper,” Charles Lloyd Jones. The twain
were once shipwrecked together in Sydney
Harbor on the yacht Thelma.
The Engineers and Signallers’ committee
dames have a special attraction at the
Sports Ground on Saturday afternoon. Ada
Reeve kicks off at a football match, Engi-
neers v. Returned Soldiers.
Eadith Sullivan, the N.S.W. girl who
won the Woolley Scholarship (1917-20),
has settled down to work at the Royai
Academy. She’s attacking the British piano.
“Hop’s” impressionist portrait of George
Reid, done on the back of a wooden spoon,
was bought out of Stott and Hoare’s win-
dow this morning for one guinea. France’s
Day Fund benefits. Mr. D. K. Inglis held
the winning ticket (No. 2) for the Reming-
ton typewriter raffled in the same interest.
The Cheer-oh Girls, in magpie rig out. did
their best’the other night for the Ist and
10th Field Artillery Christmas boxes. It is
a dreadful rush, for the word has gone forth
that the little luxuries must be ready for
transport early in August. Hence a
blizzard of “gift afternoons.” The Reper-
tory held a snug audience, and damsels in
check pinnies did a roaring business in
sweets. Dorrie Ward, the backbone of the
little company, is well supported by breezy
amateurs.
The Cherniavsky trio give four concerts
in the Conservatorium before packing for
the States. Business has been so good that
manager Scully—he is the man who toured
England as “Babs” with Brandon Thomas,
the parent of Charlie's Aunt —is steering
the extra appearances. ’Cellist Mischel
marries Mary Rogers, daughter of a Van-
couver sugar king, when he reaches Snow
Land.
St. Peter’s, in Woolloomooloo, an Angli-
can tabernacle obscured from public view by
much bricks and mortar, is celebrating its
jubilee. The foundation-stone was laid on
May 1, 1860, by Sir John Young, who was
afterwards Lord Lisgar. The space around
was then open, but by ill luck the frontages
to William and Bourke streets did not come
to the congregation, as was hoped. The
church was consecrated by Bishop Barker in
the presence of 24 clergymen, of whom Arch-
deacon Giinther, the ancient shepherd of
Parramatta, is the sole survivor.
Mrs. Vernon, lion. sec. of the Ist Light
Horse, is rounding up stragglers for a big
event at Aston, Bellevue Hill, July 28. The
4th D.A.C. are helping.
The North Sydney Comedy Club wants
your ear—just for a moment. Having
rushed into the fray for the Kangaroo it will
play “One Summer’s Day” at the Repertory
every evening from July 28 to August 4.
After looking into the pockets of some of
the new models I wonder who is going to
wear the skirts that are mere accessories.
Surely someone stout of heart and lean of
thigh. They are bags with a gaping mouth
that might be the entrance to a tunnel. Worn
on each hip, they are submerged towards the
base by flat box-pleats. No doubt there’ll
be something extra for the stuff they gobble
up.
Simple souls, blessedly innocent of snob-
bishness, are the Italian opera people. The
principals mostly hang out in the Darling-
lnirst penny-tram section. They go home
like a family party, he who is not a strap-
hanger with a great brown-paper bag under
one arm. Balboni travels o’ days with a big
parcel that you might suspect was the
week’s washing if you didn’t know 7 that it
was a whole eighteen-penn’orth of apples
and bananas.
Mrs. J. H. P. Murray and her daughter
are stuck fast in England. Hungry?
TTm-m well, sometimes.
Wonder if the plethora of fur coats will
be offered on the altar of some war-fund this
spring? They’d make a mountain of pelt if
the owners would give them up when the
warm weather comes. Think of the tons of
moth-balls all these beastie skins will take
to keep them intact! D’you remember the
leopard-spotted craze a few years ago? Then
the yellow horror fell into the dyer’s vat, and
turned out an unspotted bear or Russian fox.
Probably War Chest Day will collect both
leopard and stone marten. Joffre will catch
the dachshund later.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
LTD
JEWELLERS.
the leading house in the commonwealth for
3 Piece Muffineer set in the
highest-quality Silvevplate, in
ease,
£1 15 0
Si
Set of 6 Pairs Pearl-handled Dessert
Knives and Forks, in velvet-lined oak
case,
£3 6 0
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT
ALLOWED ON ALL CASH
PURCHASES.
WEDDING PRESENTS
OF HIGH QUALITY.
A COPV OF THE COMPANY’S ILLUS-
T RATED CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE
ON REQUEST.
Set of 6 Afternoon Teaspoons and
Tongs, in the highest-quality
Silvevplate, in case,
£lO 0
Set of 6 “Old English” Soup Spoons,
in the highest-quality Silverplate, in
case,
£1 15 0
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
The FOLDING FILMA
is a Dependable Gamera.
It’s BRITISH-MADE.
The compact Folding Filma is a grand camera for the
amateur—it is a nice handy shape to carry, is strongly made,
handsomely finished, and can always be depended upon to give
the best possible results from each exposure.
The body is of Mahogany, covered Leatherette, the Rising and
Falling Lens Front is of solid metal, Reversible View Finder,
Single Achromatic Lens, and Standard Shutter giving Time,
Bulb and Instantaneous Exposures.
05
For Roll Films —Daylight Loading.
Takes Fplate films (3i x 4J in.).
Price £2/12/6.
Films to fit above, 1/6 per spool of six
exposures.
Call and let us show you this fine camera. If
you live out of town send for our illustrated
catalogue and handbook of photography
free to any address.
PICTURE-THEATRE MEN-
Send for our Cinematographic Catalogue
and Operator’s Guide -post free anywhere.
Send Your Residues and Assays
—= to HARRINGTON’S. =====
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal Workers can depend
on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 57-59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals'and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
UP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
38S George St. # 127 Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney,
■
m
m
■...
■•fr.
4
‘V
m.
*>■*-
'
Si
FROM THE MOMENT the PIANOLA
PIANO IS DELIVERED to Your Home
A new and absorbing interest enters
into your life, and the longest winter
evenings seem to fly.
FOR your wife the Pianola Piano provides, a welcome break in
the daily domestic round —for you it means complete forget-
fulness of business cares —for the children it means the
development of an early taste for the best in music and a constant
incentive to musical study.
Obedient to your slightest command, the Rianola Piano enables
you to translate into sweet and living music the greatest musical
works of all ages. It provides you with a guide to expression as
sure as the hand of the composer himself. In variety and extent
of your repertoire no living pianist can excel you.
Come in and inspect our large shipment of new models of the
Pianola Piano just arrived ex s.s. Dorset. Variety of prices and
designs ensures satisfactory selection. We will be pleased,to
demonstrate these instruments to all, irrespective of a desire to
purchase.
IMPORTANT.
The Genuine Pianola Piano can be obtained in four models —
the Steinway Pianola, the Steck Pianola, the Stroud Pianola,
the Aeolian, and the famous Weber, and can be purchased
only at the
PIANOLA COMPANY.
The PIANOLA PIANO will be delivered on a deposit of £lO, and
the balance in moderate monthly payments.
We will allow you the utmost value for your piano in part-payment
of a Pianola Piano.
To the PIANOLA COMPANY,—
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can make on my present piano,
ichich is a
Bought about
Name
Address
The PIANOLA COMPANY
Pty.t Ltd.,
384 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.


SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
High=Grade Tailoring
FARMER & COMPANY, LIMITED, have pleasure in
announcing the engagement of the, services, as Cutter in
the MEN’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT, of
MR. J. E. SHANNON.
FORMERLY OF 20 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Mr. Shannon’s reputation for HIGH-CLASS TAILORING
extends beyond the borders of this State. His many old and
appreciative customers, in entrusting future orders to Farmer
and Company, are assured a continuance of his close personal
attention to Cutting, Fitting and Workmanship.
Tailoring Department, First Floor, Market Street.
Carriage Paid on all Country Orders.
FARHER’S
PITT, MARKET and
GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Get this Wonderful Beauty Book FREE!
Home Beauty Course, including Liberal Samples of Cretonic Toilet
_ Preparations, offered FREE to our Readers.
This offer of a complete “course” of home
beauty treatment, coupled with a magnificent
Free Gift, will enable every lady reader to
gain without cost practically the'same bene-
fits as would be secured by a personal visit
to an expensive Beauty Specialist. When it
is stated that the Free Gift includes a supply
of the wonderful “Cre-
tonie” Vanishing
Cream, that has
aroused so much excite-
ment in the world of.
feminine activity, every
lady reader will natu-
rally be eager to accept
it and thus commence,
without loss of time,
exercises which will ef-
fect an astonishing im-
provement in even the
worst of complexions
and the roughest hands
and arms.
Delightfully simple
to use on every occa-
sion, it is never-failing in its results nnfi
equally suitable for everyone, no matter’ what
tlie present state of the complexion. What
Impresses one as really marvellous is the ex-
quisite bloom of youth and beauty that is
brought into evidence with almost the first
application of Cretonic Vanishing Cream.
When the complexion is looking its worst,
when the skin appears dull, faded and almost
“lifeless,” one touch brings back all the
natural clearness and brilliancy.
Cretonic Hair and Toilet Preparations in-
clude the following: Hair Massage 3/6, Face
Cream 3/-, Tooth Paste 1/-, Shampoo Powders
3d. each or 2/6 per doz., Face Powder 3/->
Medicinal and Toilet Soap 1/-, and can he
obtained through all Chemists and Stores, or
Post Free direct from the proprietors.
If you prefer to test one or all of these ex-
cellent preparations before purchasing a sup-
ply, samples, together with book, will be sent
on request by
THE CRETONIC CHEMICAL CO.,
Country Press Chambers,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Enclose 3d. for single samples, or 6d. for the
six, to cover cost of postage and packing, etc.
If book only required, enclose Id.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, July 23, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Presbyterian-parson P. J. Murdoch, of
Camberwell, who has two sons in the firing-
line and one serving as war-correspondent, is
wearing a bright smile because his youngest,
Lieut. Alan, has won the M.C. The other
soldier-son, nuggety Ivon, is also a lieu-
tenant. Keith, the war-correspondent, rep-
resents the Melbourne Herald in England
and France.
Chemist Norton Grimwade is on his way
home from a visit to Switzerland, where a
flying son has been interned for many
months. The youngster had a bad time while
a prisoner in Germany because he gave the
Hun officers no satisfaction when they tried
to get the address of the British Fleet. “Go
out and find it.” replied young Grimwade.
And the Hun didn't like the nasty way he
said it.
The late General Bridges’ elder boy, Major
Noel, has just got a second “mention,” and
a signal from the Fog says that tall Lieut.
Moncton Bowes Kelly has also figured in
Hair’s budget “for devotion to duty and
gallantry.”
When the Ross Soden widow’s son Harry
got ashore from the torpedoed Ballarat
almost the first man he met was his medical
brother Jack. The overjoyed pair casually
turned into the village inn for a yarn and a
feed, and found themselves greeted with ring-
ing cheers of welcome by a party of khakied
diners. Whilst the brothers waited and
wondered, a Baillieu boy w’ho had spotted
them at the door and started the tumult
rose and beckoned them in.
In a letter home, Matron Ann Kidd Hart,
of the Royal Australian Nursing Service,
tells of her decoration by George V. with the
Royal Red Cross. She left with the first
nursing unit, and was in Egypt until last
January. Then she went to London, and
became matron at Cobham Hall, in Kent—
Lord Darnley’s convalescent home for Aus-
tralian officers. What most struck her at
Buck’n’ham was, not King or Queen, but
the wonderful collection of china.
It was socks last month. Now it is
“Tommy cookers.” The Sydney War Chest
having collected 126,000 pairs of soldiers’
socks, as a result of its appeal for 100,000,
Melbourne is hurriedly putting in the last
rows to make up its quota; and meantime
the L.M.P. League (on the same job as the
War Chest) has shaken out £lOOO towards
the £5OOO cooker-appeal made by the Com-
forts Funds reps, in Europe.
Justice Duffy’s family has sorrowfully gone
over to Sydney for a time. They are all
much cut up by the death of the brilliant
youngest son, a promising medico, who had
been rejected for active service. This bereave-
ment follows the death of the eldest son in
France. The only surviving boy is in the
firing-line.
There is no end of things the right kind
of woman can be queen of—in wartime. Up
at Porepunkah, on the roof of Victoria, a
Miss Bartlett has just been crowned “Queen
of the Dredges”—gold-dredges, of course. The
incidental competition found £6O for the
usual purpose.
Matron Turnbull, of the Hobart General
Hospital, has resigned, after 33 years’ con-
nection with the institution, to which she
came as nurse in ’B4. She was appointed
matron in ’96, and has held the position ever
since. The little lady, who belongs to a mili-
tary family, is something of a martinet, but
has done excellent work during her long
term of office. “Matron Turnbull’s nurses”
are famed throughout the States. She hands
the reins (still somewhat tangled by the
recent doctors’ strike) to Adelaide Gluyas,
who for the last two years has been matron
of the Broken Hill Hospital.
A smart team of visiting riflewomen from
Bananaland shot into Melbourne last week.
They are recognised as soldiers by the
Bananaland Government, and have their
official badges. Mostly they are earnest-
faced eitizenesses in business-like khaki
tunics, very short skirts and high leather
boots. Their hats are khaki and banded with
white puggarees. Mrs. Moore is captain.
She is a sonsy little lady, and one of the
leading recruiting agents in Brisbane. The
members of the team are crack shots, and
the Malvern Women’s Rifle Club is very
proud of having beaten them in a test match
by five points.
The Hoad dame gave a morning tea-party
at the Alexandra Club last week to the
Bananaland riflewomen. The guests after-
wards went on to afternoon-tea with Mrs.
Rogers Thompson at the Wattle, where
tables were set in the shape of a T for
sociability. The Forrest lady was there;
also Mrs. Polack, captainess of a local rifle
club. Mrs. Bowes Kelly had a northern
woman-soldier on either side, and Miss Holtz
talked scores over the buns. Miss Elliot,
secretary of the visiting team, was away at a
dentist’s. She is one of the crack shots of
the team, but nursed a toothache all the way
from home, and could not shoot. Dame
Forrest explained that she is commandante
of the women soldiers in Westralia, and that
her lot were the first to work the empty-
saddle idea, riding through Perth leading
spare mounts for recruits.
The Emmertons lately turned their place
upside-doWn for a big supper party to tenor
Lois. The abstemious young Italian warbled
time and time again, but when it came to a
matter of conversation passed his friends
along to little Mrs. Lois. “/S he spik !” said
the singer proudly to one and all. Mrs.
Emmerton showed off a Parisian gown of all-
black, and was eloquent about son-in-law
Norman Brookes, who was recently on a tor-
pedoed ship.
The sad little widow of Prout Webb is
home after a long sojourn in the Apple
Island with her daughter. They are work-
ing for the Red Cross.
Sunday night before last the Ross Soden
widow invited half a hundred guests, headed
by actor Cyril Maude, to.supper at Grong
Grong, followed by dancing. Lady Doris
had regretfully declined. Rumor says the
G.-G. and Lady Helen don’t approve of war-
time dancing in general and Sunday-night
two-stepping in particular.
On Thursday evening the William Dal-
rymples had an evening party, with Cyril
Maude and other theatrical stars to light the
conversational way. Mrs. Dalrymple wears
an anxious look now even at parties. _ Son
Sydney is flying for his country, and airmen
are having a hot time this European summer.
The W. J. T. Clarke girls gave a petti-
coated luncheon on Wednesday to welcome
home Noel, youngest of the Ken Brodribb
family. Three years ago Noel went off to
Shanghai for the usual orange-blossom cere-
mony with a young Scotsman named Stew-
art. This is the first trip home since the
wedding, and there is a baby Stewart to in-
troduce to everybody.
The autographed flag brought out from
England and France by mining-man Tewkes-
bury at the beginning of the war is to be
raffled at 2s. a member. The signatures of
Kitchener, Haig, Joffre and several of the
British Cabinet are on the banner, and you
can get the tickets on personal application to
Tewkesbury.
The doctor is the most frequent caller at
the Langlands Thomsons at present. Mrs.
Langlands T. was in a hansom that became
the target of a bolting lorry in the city last
week. She is on the retired list with a slight
concussion. And her husband, John Thom-
son, M.H.R., was lately made a casualty in
General Winter’s offensive.
The thumping of feet was heard again in
Toorak the other Wednesday night, when
Essa D’Ebro hostessed a two-step revel
which lasted until morning. Dancing men
being scarce —or shy—elderly married hacks
threw aside their matrimonial winkers and
waltzed the girls around.
Miss Adelaide’s collection :
The Victorian estate of the late John Robertson,
of Struan, in the South-east, has been sworn at close
on £94,000. A will made about a fortnight before
he died bequeathed £2OOO to various Narracoorte
institutions and legacies or annuities to a good many
of his employees. Which reminds me that over
£6OOO of the estate of the late William Parker, of
Mena Murtee station, who died of wounds in France
in February last, was in this State. He came to
Adelaide from Broken Hill to enlist, bringing several
of his men with him, and was wearing sergeant’s
stripes when he went west. The bulk of his property
was in N. S. Wales.
After all, Tommy Ryan is not going to bother
about seeing the session out before moving to Mel-
bourne. His vacant seat in the Assembly (Sturt)
will probably be contested by Lieut. H. S. Hudd,
who represented the district for a time in the Liberal
interest when it was part of Torrens. Anyhow, he
left his nomination behind him when he set off for
the Front.
Mrs. J. H. Smith, wife of a former Railway Com-
missioner of S.A., died in Melbourne this week. She
was in Fitzroy Gardens, unaccompanied, when she
collapsed owing to heart failure.
It has pelted for three days, with the result that
the Torrens is running a banker, almost up to the
roof of its bridges. Orchards and market gardens
along the course have been practically washed away,
the low-lying suburbs have been submerged, and for
a time the trains and trams to Henley Beach and
the Grange were stopped. Residents of those locali-
ties could either suffer temporary divorce from their
families or get the train to Glenelg or the Semaphore
and walk home along the beach. It is the record
flood for years, and so much debris was piled against
one of the bridges in Thebarton that it was closed
to traffic. The Western Suburbs kept an anxious eye
on the weir, but it stood the strain, though the over-
flow at its northern end scoured a good deal of the
earthwork away from the abutment. Nursery gardens
in the low-lying ground between the city and Henley
Beach fared badly, and one heart-broken man puts
his loss down at anything from £lOOO to £l5OO.
The only comfort we had came from the Meteoro-
logical Bureau. It informed us that we had had “by
no means exceptional rains” !
The inter-collegiate football match at the Oval on
Saturday resulted in a win for Prince Alfred’s, who
scored 14 goals 16 behinds to St. Peter’s 4 goals 6
behinds. The Governor enjoyed the game and handed
the cup to H. G. Prest, captain of the winning team.
Director Bailey is getting to work promptly at
the Botanic Gardens, where shrubs are to be thinned
out, dead and badly-placed trees removed, and the
area of asphalt paths reduced. Best of all a com-
prehensive Australian section is to be formed in the
eastern part of the grounds.
Some of our fellows can’t wait to get to the 1 rout
for decorations. Sergt. Whitlock Jones is one of
them. A few days before he left in Oct., 1914, he
dived from the Glenelg jetty, in full kit, and fished
out a man and a boy from the hungry gulf. The
Royal Humane Society’s certificate is now waiting
for him. Another customer of the society is W illiam
Wennerborn, a railway porter, who snatched a man
from the very hoofs of a galloping train. Bronze
medal for him.
The Nursery-Rhyme and Fairy-Tale dance
for children (proceeds to the Red and Purple
Crosses) was a confused success. Miss
Montgomery and her sister took the roomy
St. Ivilda Town Hall, and even then had to
stop the sale of invitation tickets a week
before the event. The Very Naicest children
attended, and all were dressed magnificently.
Mrs. Clive Baillieu came in a powdered wig
and a blue gown, with Jean and Jeannot.
Mrs. Eddy Manifold had her two boys up
from Geelong Grammar. Mrs. Henry Holden
brought daughter Molly, dressed as Oranges
and Lemons, with the Bells of St. Clement’s
round her neck, the famous Four Farthings
in her hand and the Chip-Chopper dangling
from her waist. Dr. Ewing’s four-year-old
was a Red Indian. Mrs. Geoff Syme was
eclipsed for once by her eldest daughter in
a ballet dress and curls. Mrs. Eric Con-
nolly’s three-year-old stayed long enough out
of bed to win a prize. She was chief in
the parade in a fluff of white tulle and a
wreath of roses. Sister Iris copied a D.
Brunton dress of silver and turquoise. Con-
sul Eles’s bright little flapper came as her-
self.
Grown-ups were supplied with tickets to
come and amuse the children. But a lot of
them came to amuse themselves, and, as soon
as they could, they hustled the little people
aside and took the floor. The poor young-
sters dodged under their elbows .and some-
how escaped being trampled on; but their
dainty clothes were torn about and their
pretty banners broken. It made me think of
elephants breaking up a fairy revel. Miss
Montgomery, in a powdered wig and a tur-
quoise velvet frock, bravely tried to clear
the corridors; but it was a job for a prize-
fighter, with a megaphone and several burly
assistants.
Lesley Madden came, also Mrs. Woolcott
and mining-man Tewkesbury and his
daughter. The indefatigable Timmins was
there, and Olive Godwin arrived with a big
bunch of grown-ups. Cyril Maude looked in
after theatre hours and recited some nursery
rhymes to the children —all that were left
of them.
The Lois concert happens on Wednesday,
August 15, in the Auditorium. The Dalrym-
ples, Emmertons, Pohlmans and Hidgecocks
are making the tickets fly, and Lee, of the
Allan Wilkie co., is managing.
A Melbourne University concert, with
Laver at the wheel, is going to beat the
unlucky number on its saddle-cloth by issu-
ing its “invitations” two months ahead, and
so catching the early bird. It is the thir-
teenth of its series, and is booked for Melba
Hall on September 12.
Singer Evelyn Scotney arrived with the
usual mass of clothes for her Australian in-
vasion ; but the poor lady was so wretchedly
seasick when she landed that any parade
was postponed until her first appearance on
Saturday. Also welcoming tea-parties and
talk were off until she could rest and forget
the wintry sea.
Betty Paterson makes her well-prepared
d6but as a singer on Thursday, and I’ll tell
you all about it next week. Vice-regals,
mayors, knights’ dames, brave men-at-arms,
the V.A.S. and the Caledonian Society are
all interested, so it should go with a rush.
Betty is relying on her voice, though the
gifted young person could fiddle her way to
fame if she liked.
The free Saturday-morning snacks offered
by the Uni. Conservatorium are never
rushed, though the fai*e is good and sound.
One reason may be that hardly anybody
knows about the arrangement; another, that
Melbourne is mostly busy on Saturday morn-
ings earning a dollar or two to burst up on
a “musical” comedy in the evening. Still,
for those who want it, the spread is there
every week, with capable, mostly-Australian
musicians to hand around the tack.
Coombe Cottage, where Melba spends her
leisure in the midst of the country where she
also spent her youth, was not the lady’s
first choice. When she decided to settle in
Australia, her agents made an attempt to
secure Killara, the Herbert Syme estate far-
ther up the Yarra valley. This was at one
time owned by the late David Mitchell, and
over its rich acres Melba rode and shot
rabbits as a girl. But a cash offer of £60,000
failed to get the property, whereupon Melba
fell back on the lovely acres she now owns—
though not so lovely when their new pro-
prietor first took charge.
The Saturday Pops are minting money at
the Assembly Hall. Gertrude Johnstone
was Saturday’s star. She is a local girl with
a fine voice, and she arrived on the platform
in an old-fashioned muslin gown all frilled
and furbelowed—cut square at the neck and
frilled at the elbow sleeves.
Evelyn Scotney got a good house on Satur-
day at the Auditorium. She has so many
clothes for the distraction of the fluffy-
minded that she has pledged herself not to
wear the same frock twice. Saturday’s gown
was made of oceans of lily-white tulle. It
frilled to her knees and then cascaded
afresh for a few inches. It ended there in
front, but astern there were two tulle trains
—one to starboard and the other to port
It took some careful navigation to avoid
treading on them, and the wearer wasn't
successful every time. That dream will g 0
into dock before it is worn again. Evelyn
topped the gown with her ash-blonde hair
arranged in a peak, and she carried a huge
scarlet feather fan. Then she stood on a
scarlet carpet in white satin shoes, and so
had the colorists and dress critics exclaim-
ing before she loosed the first note.
Private George Cowley, a Melbourne bari-
tone w 7 ho chucked music for war two years
ago, has been singing in England and France
at hospital concerts. He gave a programme
at the ugly Brighton Pavilion, and the press
spouted ink in praise Of him and Mabel
Downs, the Australian composer of some of
the songs. Captain Cahill (Bananaland) is
another Anzac who has been singing himself
into musical despatches.
Florrie Young lately provided a mild,
afternoon-tea spree for her faithful gallery
girls. About 40 of the Permanent First-
nighters’ Club sat down to afternoon chatter
and told Flo how they loved her. They have
a regular campaigning kit of camp seats and
compact tea-hampers to sustain them during
the long waits. The poor devotees are gener-
ally so overjoyed when the performance
actually shows signs of beginning that the
earliest orchestral player is welcomed with a
cheer. They are extremely valuable to
people who live on applause.
Young billiardist Grey has arrived back
from New York with his bride —Miss
Sheehan of not so long ago. The buxom,
dressy young lady landed a pyramid of
trunks full of clothes to last her till next
trip.
The peaceful Arts and Crafts are still
battling against the war waves. They pro-
pose to hold a big exhibition of objects of
household use made of the baser metals.
Some will be antique examples. The show
will open on Friday, September 14, and con-
tinue until September 28. Entries must be
in by August 25, and the society decrees that
no exhibit will be accepted that has been
shown at a previous A. and C. general exhibi-
tion. Or in a shop.
Dorothy Meeson Coates, our clever minia-
ture artist, is working at the Anzac Buffet
in London, while George helps at hospital
work with Streeton. The delicacy of their
painter-hands and their artists’ knowledge
of anatomy make them invaluable in wound-
dressing. George Coates painted a picture
for the last Academy that created a sensa-
tion. It showed an Anzac in war-worn
clothes and a battle glory in his wide Aus-
tralian eyes.
The Austin Hospital for Incurables —the
sad place at Heidelberg which holds more
cheerful patients than almost any other place
I know —is to have an additional pavilion for
wards. The donor is Henry Meeks, hard-
ware merchant, brother of Alfred, of Sydney,
and the foundation-stone is to be laid at 3.30
on Saturday, July 28.
At Flinders-street station last week a
well-known Toorakian bachelor tried to help
a young mother and her baby into an Essen-
don train just as it was leaving the platform.
He got the infant all right; but the railway
porter sternly commanded the mother to
“Stand back there,” with the result that the
bachelor went on with the baby to Spencer-
street. where he got out and blushed miser-
ably till the next train brought mother along.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
Any Billjim know anything about the
death of Pte. U. A. Milligan. 19th Batt..
reported killed Nov. 12 last? Write to his
mother, Mrs. G. A. Milligan, Barraganyatti,
via Ivempsey (N.S.W.).
“Rio” ; Why are we so squeamish on the
question of reprisals for air-raids? For half
a century at least the murders of traders
and missionaries in the Islands have been
“avenged” by British warships shelling and
burning villages. As a result women and
children in no wise responsible for the mur-
ders suffered. Yet we are told that
the same principle applied to Germany will
be “un-British and un-Christian.” There
may he good reasons against reprisals, but
don’t let us be hypocrites about it.


The commonpl ace in life or whiske never pleased man yet —it is the something different which always appeals.
The flawless flavour of Dewar's instantly tells of a worth born alone of peerless purity and discriminating
distillabon , Nature's gifts of man's wit could never devise a whisky of more decided distinction.


Do You Suffer from Headaches, Backache,
Dizziness, Lassitude, Poorness of Blood?
SF SO, ATTEND TO YOUR NERVES.
Overstudv at school, overwork after leaving school, the stress of i- , •
worry and defective digestion sooner or later lead to a depletion of the nerve fn.-e ’ lll ° ? ondltlons >
hes, backache, dizziness, lassitude, sleeplessness, nervousdvsnensia. ’ J ther ? by . cau . B * n «
headaches, backache, dizziness, lassitude, sleeplessness, nervouTdyspepsia of b C lood the^ b V a “f
and one other of the ailments to which human flesh is heir Mam neon aDd a hundl 'ed
very best of intentions) actually aggravate these conditions' by flying Wit !\ the
selves up, or to narcotics to ease down the pain. If you had a horse InJ 1 brace thenv
not try to keep him working bv doping him with stimulants and ln condition, you would
not. You would give him "strengthening food Then whf not treat W ° Uld u? 0f course
nourishing instead of doping them. Give them something that will' 1 nerve ? by
nerve tissue. If you follow this course, you will find vitality or ac i, la ii v , 101s . t elements of
su..ly disappearing. You can get no finer nerve food than that which'is provided On concentrated
Heart's Tonic Nerve Nuts.
Hundreds of users all over Australia are testifying to the wonderful
se little nerve nourishers and strength builders. If you cannot tret them , rr f° ratlVe Properties 0
stnreiponnr a< >nd ,iirnnf t,, tiio manufacturer, GWH V A V ri,„„ ■L 'T 0C!) 1 chcmir
* 3s. per bottle," Ca f* ler ™s
these little nerve nourisners ana s
or storekeeper send direct to the »v. nfi.lA. Chemist ITS fWi
* ----- Their price is 3 s. per bottle, or six botGes for 17s ?rt ",T
For the good they have done me I would not begrudge a* a be
Street, Sydney
enthusiastic user writes :■
for them.”
▼
absoluteiy'it
King
SeorgelV
whisky
The"XOP-NOlCH"Scotch
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“The Amateur Birdologist”: The “falcon
shrike,’’ alluded to in Bulletin 21/6/’l<, is a P"
parently the same as the crested shrike-tit, one of
the most remarkable of Australian birds. Though
no bigger in the body than a sparrow, it has a bill
as heavy and strong as that of a butcher-bird -a
fact that old John Gould abruptly discovered 50
years ago when a wounded bird, fastened affection-
ately to his hand. In the big-timber country the
presence of this hefty parishioner may be detected
by its strenuous belting at bark in pursuit of stay-
at-home insects; accordingly, most youngsters know
it as the bark-tit. The nest is one of the most
beautifully constructed of the world’s bird-homes.
Closely matted of fine yellowish bark ripped from
green trees, it is soft, silky and wonderfully
modelled for a bird with such a heavy beak. The
fact that the cosy dwelling is invariably placed at
the top of a tall gum accounts for Gould’s failure
to find a sample. There are only three members in
the tribe, the second being the white-fronted shrike-
tit of Westralia, and the third the yellow shrike-tit,
a recent discovery in the far Nor’west of the con-
tinent. They differ only in color.
‘E.S.S.” : Many country people make pets
of snakes,, mainly harmless pythons such as the
carpet and diamond, either of which can beat any
cat in keeping a place clear of mice and rats. They
don’t get in anybody’s way intentionally, but they
have an unpleasant habit of exploring the premises
at night, and for that reason they are usually kept
in the shed after hours. A station-master and his wife
had just gone to bed when a blood curdling yell from
underneath frightened the lady into a faint. The
next moment out scrambled a total stranger, who
fought, jumped, kicked and performed various frantic
contortions before bolting into the outer darkness,
leaving a big snake behind him wondering what all
the excitement was about. The burglar had hidden
under the bed to wait until the inmates of the
house should be asleep, and all that the tame reptile
wanted to do was to climb up the leg of his
and tickle his fifth rib.
ACKNOWLEDGING HIS SUPERIOR.
SERGEANT (nettled at lack of respect) : “ Well, anyhow, you’ll never yet promoted Ye
don t get stripes for getting drunk, ye know."
PRIVATE: “No, sarjin, (hic) . If yer did you'd be a Moonin' seebra, wouldn't
A GOOD SEASON.
"Hole's the grass up at Kyoglc?"
“Grass is it? Why, if the cattle'd stand aisy, ye could make up a double-bed on the
back of any of them."
“Wart”: “Nick Bottom” nominates the
magpie to outsing “E.S.S.’s” butcher-bird. Let
me nominate the grey-tailed thickhead (lately pro-
vided with the more appropriate name of Australian
whistler) to outdo the best efforts of either. The
other morning four grey-tails were challenging each
other from the tops of neighboring trees, while a
shrike-thrush filled in occasional pauses. Call
answered call, trill answered trill, and gurgle
answered gurgle, while every now and again the
shrike-thrush remarked that he was “pretty, pretty
Dick,” or did a cadenza on his own account which
rivalled the grey-tails’ efforts. The concert lasted
for two hours, with hardly a pause. In my opinion
there is no bird with notes to equal the flute-like
melody of either grey-tail or shrike-thrush, especi-
ally at this time of the year. I admit that the
magpie more often gives choral performances, but
just at this season it is quite usual to find anything
up to half a dozen grey-tails challenging each other
to charm an unobtrusive lady who acts as judge of
the competition.
* * * *
“Tropicus”: The islanders of Torres
Strait are great on churches, and to build a tin
bethel larger than the other speck’s is the ambition
of every Binghi. Before that ambition stirs in
them the young bucks pass their days in glorious
idleness, swimming in the warm waters off the
snow-white beaches, lazily sailing about the smooth
blue-satin plain of the sea, and canoodling with
velvet-skinned brown maidens in brilliant moonlight
beneath silvery rustling palms. But when the call
comes the young men leave all these things behind
and go to work for 1.2 months in the shelling boats
of Thursday Island for from £1 to £2 a month,
including food and clothing. All through the year
Biown Brother sweats in the burning sun combing
the reefs. And when his time is up he takes his
pay and goes back to his island to put most of it
in the collection-plate to buy a new church or
additions to the old one. There is an occasional
gleam of humor in the business, when the congrega-
tion falls out with the missionary and lets the church
to some mercenary trader as a store for his copra,
as happened on one occasion, to the unholy joy of
the wicked white men. On one island a great tur-
moil arose when a prowling brown deacon caught a
canoodling couple on the porch of the church. The
whole island was in an uproar, and there was talk of
capital punishment for the unluckv couple But the
elders and deacons held a council and made the pun-
ishment worthy of the offence. The boy was caught
and half of his head shaved to the scalp, and the
same torture was inflicted upon the girl The
penitential shaving was done with bits of glass from
the trader's dead-marine heap. For weeks after the
unhappy twain were the butt for all the abuse the
village could pour out upon them, and they had a
miserable existence until their hair grew again.
“Jacaranda”: Like to try a Hunnish dish
from the ex-German Pacific Islands! A variety of
pigeon which is plentiful there has a very fleshy t
breast. Ordinary people slice this meat, fry it with
onions, and in a land where fresh meat is scarce it
makes a good substitute for steak and onions. But
the local Huns have a different way. By them the
breast meat is put through the sausage-machine raw
and piled on a dinner-plate in a circle ; a couple of
raw eggs are broken into the middle of the circle, a
fringe of sliced raw onions outside it, and it is ready
for table. The diners shovel the raw mess down
their throats and then ask fondly for pig’s-blood
sausages.
* * * *
“Coffin”: I was distributing softgoods,
hardware, tobacco, etc., to people scattered in the
Gippsland wilds wh n I took the wrong turning the
other evening, and found myself hopelessly en-
tangled in the wilds. I had determined to camp
for the night, when a faint glow off to the left
attracted me. I stuck my lamp on the roof of the
waggon as a harbor light, and struck out for the
luminous spot in the great waste. As I drew
nearer I caught the strains of music, and presently
came upon a cleared space where a camp fire was
burning briskly, rug and bluey were spread for
bed, and a small, be-whiskered busnman in
a shirt and underpants was dancing vigorously
to the tune provided by a wheezing phonograph on
a stump. The bushman danced a reel on the grass.
Then he reset his phonograph and danced a jig.
He was involved in a waltz when I screwed up
courage and broke in on the revelry. His Whis-
kers merely explained: “A bloke on his own has to
do somethin’ t’ pass the evenin’s.” Before we
parted he asked me politely: “Howja like t’ jine me
in a polker?” We polkaed sedately for five min-
utes, and parted on excellent terms.
“Hay”: B. E. Minns draws Bingki’s feet
exactly as they look, with a wide spread between the
fiist and second toes. This is caused by our heathen
brother s habit of picking up all sorts of articles
from the ground without stooping to do it. He
can lift anything in this way from a small grub to
a ten-foot spear and pass it to his hand without
varying his stride or bending his head. Mrs. Binghi,
when coming into camp, picks up the firewood with
her toes, deftly catching the sticks with her hand,
and lays them crossways in the net slung on her
back, until she acquires an immense load of timber.
I remember an old Central Aus. buck in the
McDonnell Ranges who owned a pair of feet that no
.°° ever ma de would fit. The soles of the extremi-
ics were quarter of an inch deep, and the proprietor
could have walked over broken bottles with perfect
safety. *
(Continued on page 24.)
BEAU BREECHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ben Brewster lived out Redgum way,
Where all the chicken-farmers dwell.
He had few hens, yet strange to say
Had always many eggs to sell.
But Mr. Brewster
Had a rooster
Whose lay produced a wondrous lot.
Not black leghorn nor wyandotte
Considered as an egg-producer
Could come up to that gay seducer.
Ben Brewster never breathed a word
Of Breeches’ special arts and graces;
Of that superb and guileful bird
He tried to cover up the traces.
Yet Mr. Brewster
Groomed his rooster,
And prinked and polished up the Beau
Until he made a wondrous show —
A bird of breeding, and a whopper,
All black and gold and polished copper.
Beau Breeches would with subtle craft
The laying hens inveigle nigh,
For every little hen went daft
If Breeches merely winked an eye.
All day the rooster,
Worked for Brewster,
Cajoling hens to come and lay
Around his barn and in his hay.
If Breeches was at all attentive
That was a good enough incentive.
At Matty Foley’s fence he’d speak
A loving word, and shake his comb ;
The hens with an ecstatic squeak
Would up and follow Breeches home;
And then when Brewster
Heard his rooster
Emit a crow he’d stir his pegs
And gather in a dozen eggs.
He levied, too, on Green and Nation,
So great was Breeches’ fascination.
But once Mat Foley called to say,
With hate and irony intense:
“How much are Foley’s eggs to-day ?”
Said Brewster lightly: “Eighteen pence.”
Mat battered Brewster,
Slew his rooster.
Now Benny wants the old age pension,
And Redgum hens, with strange intention,
In mourning for the gallant Breeches,
Lay only eggs as black as pitch is!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
“Rami D.’’: It was on one of the tracks
leading into Morven (Q.). We pulled up at a
wayside shanty for a drink and found the local Bung-
in bed with rheumatics. His offsider assured us, as
she searched for the rum bottle, that she didn’t
know much about the business, and had all she
could do to keep the house free of goats. However,
she found the bottle on a topshelf, and poured out
the two stiff nips ** *. For two days we lay in the
scrub, as weak as so many yards of pump-water,
neither of us having strength to build a fire. When
we did manage to struggle back to the shanty it
was with the firm intention of lighting one under
the bar. But Bung had recovered by then, and met
our frontal attack with unruffled whiskers. “Got the
bottle from the top shelf, did she?” he queried
with mild interest. “Ah! Her mistake. That’s
some stuff I keep for a big buck nigger who’s
bo’nd’ry-ridin’ over on the Lower Warrego. He
comes in for a jag every couple of months and
makes a nuisance of himself unless he’s kep’ quiet.”


The Man Who’s Satisfied
with nothing less than the best in up-to-date Suitings
will find full satisfaction in
MURDOCH'S
New Season's Suitings
701-
4
A
Suit to
Measure.
Assortments of Browns and Greys,
the dominating colors of the season,
in so many shades, designs, mixtures
and mingles, that choice is easy for
the most critical. Murdoch’s Tailor-
ing fills the bill for smart dressers.
There are no Suits more up-to-the-
minute than Murdoch’s To-measure
Suits—and for value they can’t be
surpassed.
We guarantee satisfaction, or refund
your money.
LET US HAVE YOUR ORDER NOW.
Call and inspect the range of Suit-
ings—if you can’t call write for
patterns —fill in the coupon.
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park St. Ltd..
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of New
Season's Suitings at 70/- the Suit-to-
measure, with tape and self-measure-
ment form.
NAME
ADDRESS
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney,
“COMPLETE OUTFITTERS FOR MEN AND BOYS.”
2 Necessaries
for Every
Household :
Cornwell’s Extract of Malt
Cornwell’s Pure Malt Vinegar
1. The best Tonic and Body-
builder for Children.
. The most savory and purest
Malt Vinegar for Adults.
Obtainable All Grocers,
Stores.
The Good Name of Cooper Products is Exemplified in
Sheep-shearing Machinery.
The soundness of Cooper Methods and Cooper Practice is proved every day in every part of Australia in the service of these Machines.
Vn„ c an bank on EFFICIENCY, LOW COST OF UPKEEP and LONG YEARS OF SERVICE in Cooper Shearing Machines. They are
the product of an organisation that has spent more than a quarter of a century constantly working towards those aims.
WE MAKE AN OUTFIT for EVERY SIZE FLOCK
and from the smallest to the largest they are unconditionally guaranteed to give satisfaction.
No. 9 BALX-BEARING
HAND-OPERATED
Machine for Crutching or
Shearing Small Flocks.
Price, complete,
£5/17/6.
THE COOPER “EITTEE WONDER.”
A Complete 2-stand Portable Power Shearing Plant.
With all extras ready for work,
Portable, as shown, £65; or Stationary, £55.
It has no equal. Over 1000 have been installed
in Australia, and all are going strong.
THE COOPER IMPROVED BEET-DRIVEN SHEARING MACHINES,
for erecting: in the shed.
The most simple, most reliable and most satisfactory machine ever built.
The above 2-stand Plant complete with Double-ended Grinder, High-grade
3-b.h.p. Oil Engine,
And all extras complete ready for work, £96.
Larger Outfits at the same fair prices.
jf you have sheep to sheaf* this is the year to instal machines.
WRITE US TO-DAY FOR FULL PARTICULARS OF AN OUTFIT TO SUIT YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
COOPER ENGINEERING COMPANY LTD.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CLARK (St. FAUSET,
Brisbane.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS <& CO.,
RocKhampton.
N.Z. LOAN (EL M. A. CO. LTD..
Townsville & Hughenden.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Max-tin’s Pills ai-e sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies i-ecommend them. Re sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. ’
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effedive and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/0 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
t39k
m
m
m
n.
m*
sa
ACID STOMACHS ARE DANGEROUS.
COMMON-SENSE ADVICE BY A DIS-
TINGUISH El) S FECI AH ST.
. stomachs are dangerous because
acid irritates and inflames the delicate lining
. stomach, thus hindering and prevent-
ing tne proper action of the stomach, and
ending to nine-tenths of the eases of stomach
trouble from which people suffer. Medicines
' meuicinal treatments are useless in such
(< ses, for they leave the source of the trouble,
tn V\ ( ‘ stomach, as dangerous as
(v ‘ . lp must be neutralised and its
Prevented, and the best thing for
lu .P° se is half a teaspoonful of bisarated
magnesia, a simple antacid, taken in a little
on]v U ncnf C °T d wa J; er af t er eating, which not
thV t le but also prevents
oned f TCn n a atlo ?- f l om T hieh acidity is devel-
distv’occ <x s ' v bu'h ordinarily cause greatest
meal f?!n n e , ea ten with impunity if the
nesf, lS Wed Wlth a littlp bisurated mag-
and shmil i' 1 i° an be , obtained of any chemist
b always be kept handy.—Advt.
*
Oneof thebest
Do you send your soldier
or sailor friend a regular
| supply of Cigarettes? If not,
may he not think you have
forgotten him. Buy some
“Da Reszkes” to-day—
he's worthy of the very best.
Post the parcel with your
own hands. Then you know
they are bound to reach
him safely.
Sold Everywhere
“Steve Hart”: I’ve got a good word for
the starling. Recently I was travelling with some
lambing ewes on the Lachlan that were badly struck
by the blow-fly. Flocks of several hundreds of these
birds came along with us and practically wiped the
fly out.
“Captain” : In the early days of the New
Guinea occupation a company of Australians were
stationed at Herbertshbhe. One afternoon a couple
of hard-doers broke camp, and at midnight word was
brought in by two natives that “two fella soldier
making plenty noise” in a cemetery two
miles away. The O.C. despatched a sergeant
and two privates to bring them in. The pair
were found well “lathered up” and challenging all
hands and the Devil to arise and fight. The ser-
geant announced their arrest, and, on one of them
asking for trouble, the N.C.O. delivered the goods
to the point, knocking the recipient clean out. As
he hit the ground an unearthly cry rent the night.
“Blime,” said one of the escort, “you’ve broke his
neck, sergeant.” The sergeant rolled the victim
over. The haversack, viewed by the light of a hurri-
cane lamp, was bulky, and the investigator put his
hand in to ascertain its contents. Then there was
a howl and a curse —and out crawled a parrot, much
dishevelled and short of breath. The bird was
promptly made a regimental mascot, but the escort
always averred that not in its wildest screeches did
the fowl ever again make such an unearthly yell as
it did when its owner took the count in the
cemetery.
* * * *
“Jobber”: “Ses” (B. 15/2/’l7) talks of
hatters. I met an ex-Australian in London re-
cently who told me of a 'cove he had struck out in
nor’-west Queensland. When my friend rode up to
the hut the old man darted inside and wouldn’t
budge. My pal poked in and asked him why in
thunder he’d bolted. “Oh, I’m goin’ Outback,” said
he. “This country's getting over-run. You're the
third man I’ve seen this year.”
“Dead Finish” : Here’s a useful tip. Re-
cently I came across a draught mare dead. 1 left
her to get ripe, and then opened her and smeared
arsenic inside. Result, millions of dead flies in a
very short time. Incidentally, if every defunct beast
was burned it would help to reduce the fly-curse
greatlv by doing- away with breeding-places. This
would be next to impossible on big runs, but the
cocky could do a great deal at no very alarming cost
or inconvenience.
“Munjong”: An animal which I have
neither seen nor heard of previously has taken
possession of an old sparrow’s-nest under the iron
roof of my hut in company with his better-half.
His fighting weight would be about the same as that
of a medium-sized rat. The fur is long and a reddish-
brown, turning to a rich golden color on the belly
and feet. In g-eneral appearance he is a
cross between a fox and a mouse, but I can hardly
believe this to be correct. These little creatures are
inclined to be friendly, though extremely timid.
They are grass-eaters, and ignored several biscuits
that I offered them. As high-jumpers I have not
seen their equal. On several occasions whilst play-
ing they have jumped from the ground to the top
rail of the fence with apparent ease, and they are
marvellously quick-climbers. I have been in most
parts of Australia, and have lived in the bush all
my life, but as far as my previous knowledge goes
these are the Adam and Eve of the species,
A NEW MINERAL.
VISITING EXPERT: “I notice a tremendous
lot of optimism in your mine, Captain.”
COUSIN CAP'N : “There edden no seek thing.
There's bornite, covelite and yellow ore,
and tha's all. So thee’st better go back
to ’aberdushery, young man, for 'tez
plain thee dunnaw nothin’ about minin’.
And judgin’ be the look av ’ee, thee
always will.”
A READY-TO-WEAR CUSTOMER.
FACETIOUS INEBBIATE: “Cotter clean shirt in yer shop?”
COHEN: "Vu , of course I are, my friend —dothens of 'em.”
THE INEBRIATE: “Then why the (hie) blazes don’t yer put one on?"
“Billy T.”: Billy Tregaskis, shift-boss,
told me this yarn. Peter Spence, aged 30, a smart,
square-set, good-looking, Australian-bred devil, was
a face-man at the Aurora mine, Eagle Head. He
had a vagrant fancy in women, and among others
upon whom he cast a roving grey eye was Amelia
Hill, daughter of the new shoemaker. That Amelia
should have received any attention from him at all
was proof of Peter’s liberal fancy, Miss Hill being
a tall, big-boned, flat-chested, shambling girl of 22
who, in all probability, had never before provoked
the smallest interest in a presentable male. Peter
went beyond mere compliments and, frivolous flirta-
tion ; and amazement at her good fortune possessed
Amelia all day long. Her elation was visible to the
neighbors, her infatuation a subject of common talk.
Then came the “cave” in No. 3 level at the Aurora.
It happened at 10 o’clock one night. Two men
were entombed, and the work of rescue was begun
at once. It was carried on at a terrific pace for
hours. There was no stowage, so the reef had to
be trucked to the plat, and whirled up to the sur-
face as fast as trucks could be filled and run, while
the hauling engine worked at top speed and the
cages danced up and down. Small attention , was
paid to individual workers in the sw’elter of the
dimly-lit drive; but one among them toiled in a
kind of frenzy—a lumbering youth in the customary
clay-caked pants and blue shirt of a trucker.
Nothing stopped him. Drenched with perspiration,
gasping in the bad air, he tore at the shattered reef,
hurled fragments into the trucks, then, running
three loaded trucks, was always on the heels of
those before, expostulating, mad with the fever of
haste. And the Aurora rails were none too true,
and there were many bad pinches between the fall
and the plat. Others fell out, done up, but this
trucker went on at a scarcely diminished speed, with
hands blistered and broken and a face so white it
might have been pipe-claved, the shift boss said.
The last of the broken logs was torn aside, and
Jones and Howell were pulled through the gap,
sound and well, and hauled along the drive by the
cheering miners. The white-faced trucker remained,
leaning on the wet side of the drive. He clutched
at Tregaskis. “But there’s Peter Spence!” he whis-
pered. He pointed to the gaping blackness beyond
the tumbled reef. “Peter’s in there,” he said. Tre-
gaskis laughed. “Not much !” he said. “Peter Spence
changed shifts with Howell to go to the show-dance
at Cockatoo to-night.” The white trucker clung to
Tregaskis’s sleeve. “Who did he go with?” he
asked. He seemed to be pleading, and for a
moment the shift boss blinked in surprise. “1
dunno,” said Tregaskis, “but I got an idea it’s Con-
ley’s girl from the post office.” Tregaskis followed
after the cheering crowd, and all went up. Nobody
noticed th(> absence of the trucker. Several hours
passed before men went into the broken drive again,
and then they found the tall trucker, whiter than
ever. Apparently he had fainted, and, as luck
would have it, the water had risen in the incline.
The poor wretch was drowned. The trousers and
shirt he wore were Sid Bennett’s. Sid had left them
in the changing-room when he knocked off after the
day shift. Under them were a petticoat and sii- >-
bodice. Tregaskis seemed to find much satisfaction
in the fact that Peter Spence subsequently married
a girl who, as his wife, gave him pnticular
Gehenna.
* * » *
“L.” : My parents employed a gin who hud
two daughters. The elder one married a blaekiellow
and had a baby boy within a year. She died when
the piccaninny was three weeks old. The old gin
put the infant to her breast,' and it drew milk and
for 18 months was suckled by its grandmother,
although she had not had a child for 15 or 16 years.
* * * *
D.t. : Strabo, the Latin geographer,
said that in his time, a couple of thousand years
ago, many parts of Spain were nearly eaten out of
house and home by rabbits, and that the people of
the Balearic Islands had sent a petition to Rome
alleging that the bunnies were driving them off their
farms. But the pest vanished, and no one hears
anything about a rabbit curse in Spain these days.
So if the afflicted Australian squatters and cockies
only hold on for a few hundred years they mav be
all right. In Strabo’s time ferrets were reckoned
the best exterminator.
*. „ * * *
"Devilfish” : A cow belonging to a dairy-
man at Hobart started the other dav to swim the
Derwent where it is about two miles wide Half
way across she found it a bit too rough, swain back-
arid tried to climb on to (lie big Ocean Pj P r she
was welcomed ashore and didn’t seem the worse for
the effort. e 101
“Yambaooona” : “Montalex” (B. 17/5/T7)
and “Rodent” (B. 28,/6/’l7) want to know’ if the
blue-black rat has made good in Sydney. The blue-
black is, at the "present time, about equal in num-
bers in Sydney to the grey Norway or sewer rat;
but “Rodent” is wrong when he says the former is
wiping out the Norway. The fact is that the Nor-
way, by reason of his water-front and sewer pro-
clivities, has a bigger campaign waged against him
than his black or blue-black brother, who skulks in
warehouses. As to plague, the last and biggest local
outbreak was directly traced to a few short-tailed
Indian sewer-rats, and not to the blue-black, as
stated. These short-tailed rodents are very seldom
seen on ships arriving here, and inhabit principally
Ceylon and India. They are a compact, fluffy mass,
more like a young kitten than a rat, and wear ex-
tremely short tails, whereas the ordinary ship’s rat
has a particularly long appendix. I saw two of the
Indians caught on one of the Billy Hughes ships a
month or so ago. Talking of rats: (1) What is the
biggest one-night catch on record in a confined area,
and (2) the largest number of young discovered with
an ordinary ship or sewer rat? In the first instance,
let me enter 520-odd caught a couple of months
ago after fumigation in one of the larg’est boats
trading to Australia, and in the second case I’ll
back 21 young-—-found twice on vessels in Port Jack-
son. From 18 to 20 is a fairly common number, but
22 and 24 take beating.
STRYCHNINE FOR ONE.
BLASE: “W onder who's the lady, Peck? See
the way she glared?”
PECK : Ssh! That's my better half!”
BLASE (sotto voice): “If it teas mine, I'd
poison the other half!”
IN PIKER’S BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“They were long, long tramps, those tramps o’
mine,” the lonely swagman said,
“And old Disgrace walked just behind, and black
Despair ahead.
The past, the bitter, jeering past, was pictured in
the skies,
And etched across the desert’s rim, where’er I turned
my eyes,
Alone, yet not alone, I tramped”—his tears were
hard to hide —
“Through all my lonesome journeys she was walking
by my side.
“For days and days, month after month, when all
was sad and weird,
I had my strange, my silent thoughts—the thoughts
that seldom cheered.
Through blinding heats and desert-glares, past half-
way tanks gone dry,
I trudged and trudged; no man, I swear, seemed
lonelier than I.
And yet 1 did not tramp alone; with patience wake-
ful-eyed,
She cheered me as we trudged along, together, side
by side.”
’The poet-chap, in Piker’s bar, he took the swag-
man’s hand.
“flow beautiful the sentiment!” he said. “How truly
grand !
And, deem me not impertinent—was she a sweetheart
dead,
Or wife, or child —a bonny child ?”—the poet
dropped his head. 1
“Oh, no; you’re on a branch-off track,” the lonely
man, replied;
“Through those long tramps my cattle slut was walk-
ing by my side” !
X.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


box of State Express Cig'arettes
exemplifies tbe pride of the expert
in evolving a Cig'arette worthy of the
highest in the land.
Each new smoker, as the delig'hts of
this superb cigarette are revealed to
him. becomes an immediate convert to
its pleasures.
CIGARETTES
are “something' dilferent.”
“That’s the reason.”
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
lO for 6d.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
R
1
fr
u<?
$
*E
&
'O
S'
<s
«
s£
5*
SF


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure arc
Bigger now than ever.
Delightfully
Soothing
m
u
OF?*
>^
3
UP
l\
3s
m
>////
«■»*
16
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches al Sydney, N.S.W. fit Wellington. N.Z.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Loani’-; At Waga Waga Experimental
Station in Milne Bay the Papuan Govern-
ment has some three acres devoted to vanilla,
and experts declare the beans to be equal to
if not better than those from Tahiti. The
orchid (for vanilla is the fruit of an orchid)
seems to have acclimatised itself, and there
is no doubt that, given proper culture and
right preparation for market, the beans can
be produced in great quantity and of uni-
form quality. The profits from only a few
acres should provide a handsome income to
the grower. A five-acre patch should produce
about £250 a year profit. Such manual labor
as is required can be done by a couple of
“boys” at £6 a year each, excluding food and
raiment, or a total of £l2 per boy. Land is
obtainable in blocks of one hundred acres
absolutely free of rent and survey fees for
the first 10 years; and about £2OO would be
enough to improve 10 acres in excellent style,
and provide the holder with a decent home.
Of course this estimate does not provide for
the living expenses of the grower until his
first crop is marketable, about a year from
planting.
“Condenser” ; The peculiarities of wireless
pointed out by “Devilfish” are well under-
stood by practical men. The fact that Hono-
lulu’s signals grow weaker when approaching
that station is no doubt due to some hill or
mountain lying in a direct line; the more
metal the natural obstruction contains the
greater will it attract the oscillations. From
certain points Hobart is hard to hear even
at a handy distance; but the same can be
said of every land wireless station in exist-
ence. Melbourne, for instance, grows very
weak to a ship under the lee of Wilson’s
Promontory, which is practically Melbourne’s
front fence. Yet I have read the same fine
station whilst lying at Fremantle.
* * * *
Recent theatrical ad.: —
Special Notice. —The Theatre will be perfumed with
the original 1648 Eau de Cologne, made in Australia.
Eau de Cologne! Whaffor? Why not
Colonial?
“Ashton”: Sly-grogging is an art. I
lately examined a “still” in the side of a
creek where the smoke escaped through the
hollow trunk of a gum-tree. Also, one where
the opening to the cellar containing the still
was through the fireplace. The fire had to
be removed before entrance or exit could be
made. The smoke drifted up through cun-
ningly-contrived apertures and the old wife
saw to it that the fire above was kept well
stoked while the still worked. In both in-
stances the informer was the tinker who
mended the worm. I knew a woman whose
flower-bed borders were ornamented with
apparently dead marines. When a trifle of
“Border Blend” was wanted a full bottle
was pulled up and an empty one substituted.
A jealous admirer put her pot on.
“Copabella” : An ex-employee of the New-
port (Vic.) shops received a weird communi-
cation last week. The note came from the
Railways Department on a printed memo,
form, was typed, numbered, “copied,” in-
dexed for reply, and signed by the sender -it
had probably gone through four or five hands
—posted with a penny stamp and enclosed in
a printed envelope. It ran: “Please note
that when leaving Newport you were over-
paid the sum of 2d. Kindly forward at your
earliest.” What sort of system is it that
allows this sort of idiot to waste stamps,
paper and several persons’ time in this way?
One of the plainest arguments in favor of
interference with the present system of fruit-
distribution is to be found in the recent
admission of the Vic. apple-grower that he
would be satisfied with a penny a pound for
a normal crop. Even in the brightest times
he declares he doesn’t average this, though
there is no period of the year when really
decent eating-apples can be bought in Mel-
bourne shops for less than Bd. per jxound.
To the apple-consumer a middleman’s com-
mission of 200 per cent., added to a prime
cost of a penny a pound or less, looks more
like robbery,' etc., than business. When is
the Department of Agriculture going to do
its duty in organising these people co-oper-
atively ?
* * * *
The North Coast Co-operative (N.S.W.),
Australia’s biggest butter-maker, had last
half-year “a record in output and turnover.”
It made 4648 tons butter, or 1617 tons more
than in the corresponding half of the pre-
vious year, and got an average price of
16.1 d. Also, it handled 19,855 pigs (5225
more) and paid “an average price of 7id.
per lb. for A 1 pork.” For statistical pur-
poses the company cuts up its terri-
tory—speaking broadly, the country north of
the Clarence —into three districts, and this
comparison shows how each has grown : —-
April, 1916. April, 1917.
Byron Bay .. 1,606,9021 b. 2,348,9531 b.
Lismore .. 2,058,236 „ 3,692,298 ~
Murwillumbah.. 3,125,218,, 4,370,155 ~
The progress of the Murwillumbah or north-
ernmost (Tweed River) section is the most
astonishing. Seven years ago the figures
were: Byron Bay, 3.080,7671 b.; Lismore,
3,084,8621 b.; Murwillumbah, 2,221,8251 b..
and that was an exceptional season- _p?e
total amount paid by the co. to supphe
the butter department during the last bail
year was £636,386; to suppliers m the bacon
department, £58,676. This co. does
one-half of the butter business of the xNoitu
Coast, so apparently the butter cheque that
went to that wonderfully fertile distnc
the six months was a little over a million
and a quarter. Add the bacon cheque ; and
now, especially on the Tweed, the ban
cheque is becoming of even more importance.
It looks as though the three industries will
dovetail in splendidly; for the pig ’"ill go
three-quarters of the way on the refuse fiom
the banana plantation and the other quarter
on the refuse from the cow-mill.
“T. 0.1.”: Just demolished in Pitt-street.
Sidney, to make way for the new building
of the London Bank, the old premises ot
Richardson and Wrench. In the first yea rs
of last century the site was occupied by
Mathew Kearns, who had been a soldier in
the Rum Corps, and was granted one of the
20 pub licenses authorised to be issued for
Sydney town. In the first ’6o’s Richardson
and Wrench came on the scene, with the
Metropolitan Hotel on the south. The
house was the home of John Hosking, first
Mayor of Sydney. The first licensee was
John Hampton, who had been a balloonist
in England; he subsequently kept the Met-
ropolitan, where now stands the Daily
Telegraph office, and the Oxford Hotel,
where he died.
* * * *
“F.W.W.”: Some of the gents who “put
through” wheat scrip for the eockies are
sharks. The procedure is to insert an allur-
ing ad. in the country rags. When Cocky
writes in for a quote he gets an ambiguous
reply. If the market hardens, along comes
a contract with a peremptory demand for
the scrip ; but a declining market brings a
dead silence. If Cocky personally interviews
the sharks he gets a verbal quote; but any
mention of a written contract is treated
with scorn as unworthy of a transaction
“between friends.” It’s up to the Govern-
ment to put this traffic on a decent footing
or end it.
•*■***
“H.V.E.” on a possible “little” industry;
Post-bellum industries will assuredly include the
culture of many medicinal plants and herbs, which
were formerly supplied to British drug-manufacturers
for the main part by Germany and Austria. The list
of plants of commercial value which may be grown
in Britain, according to the prospectus of an estab-
lishment known as an “herb garden,” situated in
Buckinghamshire (Eng.), includes over 500 species,
and these plants should certainly flourish in the
cooler parts of Australia. Amongst them are acacia
Senegal (gum arabic), monkshood (aconite), chamo-
mile, snake-root, belladonna, buchu, foxglove
(digitalis), mustard (for the seed), senna, meadow
saffron (colchicum), gentian, liquorice, aniseed,
jalap, blue flag and iris (orris root and iridin),
juniper (oil of juniper), linseed, peppermint, mace,
opium poppy, ipecacuanha, Turkey rhubarb, castor-
oil plant (ricinus), nux vomica (including the alka-
loid strychnine), squill and valerian. A specimen
of the nux vomica plant grows, or grew
some few years ago, in Sydney Botanical Gardens.
For strychnine there is always a large demand,
while the supply is diminishing. A large proportion
of it came from Germany. Other plants of commer-
cial value include American ginseng, angelica, worm-
wood, English lavender (for perfumery), sage, mar-
joram, thyme, savory, tarragon, capsicum, brooklime,
hyssop, etc. Brooklime, by the way, common
enough in many parts of Australia and lauded as a
bush “simple,” is not quite the innocuous remedy
that it is supposed to be. A country medico records
a case in which the patient, acting as his own
physician, had reduced himself to mere skin and
bone by over-indulgence in brooklime tea. As regards
the culture of culinary herbs, such as thyme, sage,
etc., ante-bellum importations of these in a dry
state into Australia cost about £lO,OOO annually,
while the few local growers now operating estimate
the returns from such plants at from £4O upwards
per acre. With respect, however, to the culture, of
medicinal plants, local demand alone is unlikely to
be large enough to make the industry worth an Aus-
tralian grower’s while. He must look farther afield
for his chief market. But against this stands the
fact that several of the great English and American
drug manufacturers have branch houses or agencies
in most Australasian capitals, and to these locally-
grown drug material, if of good quality, might be
disposed of. Such an industry, if established in
Australia, might give remunerative employment to
persons physically unfitted for hard labor. Aus-
tralians interested may obtain information as to
prices of seed or roots of various medicinal plants
and other useful information by addressing the
Principal, AVhin’s Herb Garden, Chalfont St. Peter
Bucks., England.
* * *
‘D.F. : Matthew Flinders reckoned the
number of mutton-birds in one mob he saw
m Bass Straits in 1799 at 220,000,000. You
don t see so many nowadays; nevertheless a
single family working on the islands is said
to have killed and salted down 30,000 birds
for export last season.
* * * *
“Musketoon”: Some extracts from an
agreement with a Chinese firm, at Forbes
, ] , st : the owners supplys mee with groceries
and foodstuffs not exceeding the value of 11s. per
week m free of charges during in their emplovs.
21 idly-—I hereby undertake to looking after your
property premises, garden trees horses Stables as
per your instructions.
IREES and vegetables to be watering at least
once a day in fine days in summer at 6 o’clock, or
at 5 o clock in Winter.
HORSES to be property looking after and must
be watenng twice a day in winter and Three times
in summer.
vo^I AB i L ? S to cleaned' daily manures must be
requirement 0 ™ Stab <?S lnt ° garden corners *eady to
PREMISES Must keep it clean, No gambling
ranking or Associated with others allowed, and
must not smoking during-bed time. Matches and
lights must be carefully in using.
Yards must be cleans up once a week and not
yards Stranger or other anima,s to enter into the
CHAFF must be properly looking after, no wast-
ing allowed, and must be locking* up inimediatelv
dllT ho . l ? es we . re f eeded, and shall not sell or
deal with others of same. No chaff bags will be
allow to get about the yards or at stable allow
to chewing or stamping with it
at t^3o )l in G fh HoßSE ®''~ E 1 V o e o y h ° rSe mUSt be feeded
at 6.30 in the morning 12.30 noon and 5.30 dailv
and watering i tin full for breakfast, $ tins for
dinner if necessary 1 full tin at night (the tin we
means kerosene tin). K
If I refuse to neglect carrying out your instruc-
tions mentioned above I shall lhible fo'r an instant
dismissal, and shall not have any claim for com-
Densation or for any accounts whatever.
CONCRETE! ships.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Well, shiver me timbers!” the old tar said,
As lie thoughtfully scratched his hairless head.
“When I was at sea, a ship was a ship
And a church was a church! I gets the pip
When I hears how they builds the ships of stone
And sends ’em to sea with a sailor’s groan,
To waller an’ heave on the ragin’ biller.
It’s like goin’ to sea in a Queen Anne viller!”
“When / was at sea,” he said with a lurch,
“A ship was a ship and a church was a church” —
Then he gave his trousers a sailor’s hitch —
“Now I’m bunkered if I know which is which!”
N.S.W.
BILL BEACON.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Most men back their fancies, but, judging
bv the prevailing' fashion m evening gowns, most
women fancy their backs.
Out of compassion for Israel the owner
with a mania for Greek names decided to give them
a rest. So he christened the next prad Ironsides and
<<3 to 1 Iron-ce-des” bellowed Jkey at the first
chance.
“Viator”: I’ve been trying to classify the
sounds made by motors. Here is the list to date:
Hog’s grunt, bullock bell, bull’s bellow, billygoat’s
bleat calf’s agony, cow’s moan, baby hippopotamus’s
gurgle, foa-horn, frog’s clank, elephant’s shriek,
peacock’s laugh, locomotive whistle with cold in
throat horse’s cough, steamboat sj' ren, hyaena s bark,
tiger’s snarl. Who will deny that the motor hasn’t
made life more beautiful!
* * * *
“De Oriel”: At Eskdale (Vic.) my oppo-
nent at billiards was a one-armed man. He used his
old felt hat as a cue rest and played well. In Gun-
bower (Vic.) the marker had one leg only. I played
a one-eyed man in S. Aus. This artist used to sight
down the cue like a rifle and he was hard to defeat,
But 1 give the oil to a dwarf in Melbourne. His
head just reached the .edge of the table, and he was
compelled to use the jigger tor eveiy shot. On
account of his natural advantage of observation he
made some good breaks.
* * * *
Owing to the rumor having got round that
the Sportsmen’s Thousand, now recruiting in Mel-
bourne, is in need of a mascot, its city depot is a
rendezvous for people with wallabies, native bears
and opossums in sufficient numbers to stock a men-
a"-erie. Bitter complaints have been raised by the
tenants of the building, whose outcry, mingled with
the noises of the live stock, has prompted a member
of the recruiting committee to yell that the only
animals it needs are Men.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: In North Bananaland the black
swan, the duck and other wild fowl mate and begin
to breed immediately upon the coming of the mon-
soonal rains. In a good season the old birds will
mate again in four months, keeping the young ones
company in their first courtship. The increase in
feathers is enormous, especially in the remote parts
of the Gulf. As gunshot is practically unknown, the
game is easy to approach, and an evening's bag is a
sportsman's dream. The “whistler” is the most
numerous of the tribes. Usually it is classed as a
duck, but it is really a goose.
• * * *
“Corio”: “Toby C.,” who says that Sca-
mander (Tas.) is the best fishing spot on the map,
forgot Laurieton (North Coast N. S. Wales).
Winter and summer, in the shoals of sand-spit and
islet of the river-mouth, you can yank out great,
thumping flathead, whiting, snapper and bream. Dur-
ing the warm harrier tides the sea-tailer cake-walks
on to a hand-line, the lobster insists on being your
friend for life, and huge crabs of the edible variety
seem to delight in imprisoning themselves in the pots
prepared for their capture. And in the retail shops
kept by the cousins of Constantine you can easily
catch a whole mullet with ss.
* * * *
“Sinker” : The most exciting catch I ever
saw was made on the North Coast (N.S.W.). The
engineer of a bar-bound coaster, having cast his line,
went to look at his engines. A seaman pulled the
line up, tied on the lid of a kerosene tin and dropped
it overboard. When McAndrew came back someone
tugged the line. “Got him,” bawled Mac and began
to haul in hand over hand. How- that tin-lid did
perform! It darted about like a thing of life.
Passengers and crew rushed to the side and cheered
the gleaming white object fighting on the line.
“Snapper, snapper!’’ rose from the length of the ship,
and Mac pulled like one possessed. At last he saw
his catch! And then the real excitement started.
* * * *
“Liles”: “Montalex’s” recent revelations
about trick shooting are interesting, but there is one
statement I want to contradict. Shooting within 15
inches of a lighted candle will not put it out, unless
you use a shotgun. I can assure “Montalex” that
the “wind” of a bullet cannot be depended on to put
a candle out even if it passes within fiin. of the
flame. Mention of spectacular shooting reminds me
of “Curly” Bell, or “Professor” Walsh, as he calls
himself sometimes. Most people in Victoria know
him. He usually travels with a portable gallery, and
it is child's play for him to shoot the ash off a
cigarette. No fake either; I’ve been smoking the
fag myself frequently. He will shoot a hole in a
cigarette card, turn the card on edge, and “cut the
hole out”—that is, shoot the card in two so that no
trace of the first hole is left. He has done that at
night-time with the aid of two flares.
“Bill R.” : The liveliest fish that anglers
take are the giants of the mackerel family—the tar-
pon, tuna and tunny. The first (called also the
silverfish) grows to six feet long. He frequents the
Gulf of Mexico and seas of the West Indies, where
his huge, silvery scales, used in fancy work, are a
staple article of trade. He is the speediest thing that
swims, and fishermen that hook him either
hold their rods under water till he takes a pull or
have an automatic spray playing irpon their reels
to prevent: the line burning off as it whizzes through
the rings. To kill one inside two hours is considered
a feat to write home about. The tuna attains to
half the size of the tarpon. He adds to his speed
the trick of bouncing 20 or 30 feet from the wave
crests in his wild efforts to break from the line. He
is the dandy of the species—blue, with red-brown
lateral stripes, and is plentiful on the American
coasts, handy to the millionaire tuna-fishing clubs.
The tunny belongs to the rock-bound coasts of the
Mediterranean, but in recent years the fish lias
appeared in Australian seas. Less agile than the
other fellows, he makes up for that deficiency by
weight—-up to 10001 b. Any sport going to hunt for
one should try the deep water near rockv cliffs, be-
cause the tunny. is a rock-fish feeder. The only reli-
able bait is a live rock-fish with a small hook, clove
hitched to the big line, anchored to his tail, and the
tunny hook swung to his gills with a thread.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: One hundred years ago
General Josfi San Martin and his citizen army left
Mendoza for the Pacific Coast to undertake the cam-
paign that freed South America from the Spanish
yoke for ever, and this pueblo (Mendoza) has been
busy for the last week (February) celebrating the
centenary of that famous expedition. And while the
bands blared and the politicians blithered and the
proletariat, full of the bad red wine of the province,
howled “Vive la Patria” and can-canned and tangoed,
Lieutenant Zami, of the National Flying Corps,
climbed on to his monoplane and lit out in the
hope of crossing the Andes. But at Las Vacas he
was caught in a strong air current and whirled like
a scrap of thistledown back down the canon he had
previously traversed. The machine Was, smashed to
pieces, but the pilot escaped unhurt except for a few
bumps and scratches. Zami (known as El Gato—
The Cat) does not seem much discouraged by his
failure, and threatens to make another attempt
shortly. What I wrote (B. 30/’4/T4) when the ill-
fated George Newberry proposed to make the first
attempt at crossing the Andes on a flying machine,
holds good to-day—the man who does it in an aero-
plane will have to climb up to about 16,000 ft. and hold
to that altitude for 250 kilometers, otherwise he is
sure to be turned over by the strong cross-currents
which blow over the crest of the Cordillera and down
the frequent, canons on either side of his line of
flight. Zami’s 140 kilometers is the best Andean
record so. far, but there remain 100 kilometers and a
further rise or possibly 9000 feet before the
(Continued on page 32.)


5*
SMIT - fc.
Jut_iUS
CZ Xitt/lL Z&t/uZ toZd
Yfe all know tbat little Bird! He’s always
telling Heard a story tlie other
day attributed to Him. Here it is.
1
okc
her
he
only been, maimed four y<Z2vrs &nd
Y/&.S not home much
should be.
s
\nt
>0
Strictly between ourselves (Pont kt it fwiW)
he Spent most of his evenings ct his Brilli&ntly
lit Club. It h<sd SEMHMDIRECT FITTINGS
fcnd §& EDISON LAMPS-
R 5
UNDER i 4
EhBALhEP
WREATHS 30/-
SALE PRICE 10/-
E T -S
THIS CHARMINC
COFFIN -IN OAK OR
DEAL-BOTH SPLErtOID
VALUE - OAK LASTS
LONGEST OF COURSE
'j £
he of divorce , Suicide , murder.
&nd other cheerful things
finally h<zr troubled mind Sougjdt
refuse in clcarvoy^t-
'I see d&rk house, lit’shidthe
Clairvoyant:; a we2uy with.
too touch house-work. She is lonely
doubtful of the Future. I <dSo .See & cheerful
Club Room Elechaodly lit. The wom&n ought
to make her house bright atfxi &nd
cut down housework much &s possible
Good &ff<zrooon «5J- Please"
Well -youknow, ih&t got her thinking.
Sh<z. simply installed S EDISON LAMPS throughout he house
and put a §•§• ELECTRIC RADIATOR near her husbands chair
It all gave and more cheerful aspect to everything.
He never teft her again. -
She attributed her success in keeping him at home, to the &
RADIATOR, others said it was the §•& LAMPS - She Cut down house
work by installing %■& COOKING APPLIANCES a'g g. IRON andag.g,-
YACUUM CLEANER.
Thank Heaven ": she said: * for the
AUSTRALIAN. GENERAL ELECTRIC OC
General Electric-0
Wentworth Ay Sydney, O? of Queen c Little Collins St Melbourne.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical A Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland. Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock A Co.. Ltd.. Launceston; Messrs. Oliver
and Oliver. MacQuarie Street. Hobart.
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE <Q.): The Engineering; Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.I,
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins * Co. <W.A.>. Ltd.. Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.); Unbehaun & Johnstone. 100 Currie Street.


A. Saunders’ Fruit Dish, pure silver-plated frame,
fancy floral china dish, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ “Thistle” design Honey
Jar, silver-plated frame, clear glass
jar, with server, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Fruit, Salad or Preserve Dish. Silver-
plated nickel silver frame, fancy floral china dish,
15/(5. Others, 8/0, 9/6, 10/6.
HANDSOME
<£T
SiLVERPLATE
Saunders’ Mustard Pot,
pure silver-plated, with
glass lining, 8/6.
Solid silver, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Combination Table Centre,
pure silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £4/10/-
A
A. Saunders' Salt Cellars,
pure silver-plated, with
glass lining, 10/6 pair.
A. Saunders' Afternoon Tea Set, comprising; Teapot, Sugar and Cream, pure silver-plated, beautifully
burnished. Plain design. Complete with covers. Special value, £2/10/-
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
GIFT BOOK.
IT'S FREE
FOR THE
ASKING.
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure silver-plated on
nickel silver, A 1 quality, richly embossed and
burnished, detachable handle, special value,
10in., £2/15/-. Hin., £3.
ALL ORDERS
PROMPTLY
ATTENDED
TO AND
FORWARDED
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, SYDNEY ( ° p s^onr ay
A. Saunders’ four-cup Egg; Frame and Spoon-
pure silver-plated, highly burnished, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Bar-
rel, dainty floral china,
silver-plated mounts,
10/6.
A. Saunders’ squirrel design Salad Bowl and Servers,
handsome glass bowl, pure silver-plated mounts,
25/-
u
LU
Germs cause Sore and Husky Throats.
EVANS’ Pastilles .
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
EVANS , SONS. LESCHER & WEBB. Limited. LONDON.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
I of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE security assured, trust accounts always open to inspection.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dit.
Lamartine's Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly's Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moi.l Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Caro
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola's, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Niggf.r Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet. 1 5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions Avitii Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow's Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry.
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British.
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6
French Polishing and Staining. 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught. 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins.
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
&
HOME CKLOPEDIR
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 na°-es
II IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Oenturv edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
eloth-envered edition of this great work. It will be r>o=ted.
to ANY address for TEN STTTr.T.INGS.
W-tiOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
•• • • • . ■ '
“•8
Prop. Fowier's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FOUTUNF, TILLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY 7 , etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated.
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. 1/3. Modern-
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/- How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man
From Snowy River. 4/-. Poultry Keeping. I'-
posted. Parlor Magic, II- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator. 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 pdsted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toast«. Public Speak-
ing Made East, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits x/- •
Post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (ne\v) 4/c’
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 0/3 Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses 1/3
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan nan's Engine
Driver s Guide, 5/6 posted. \ iuile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
Heptameron, and manv others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted
Womens Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, If- posted. The Waybacks. 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want l*ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SWT'Established 25 Years^
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
ISE GOT FROM THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY,
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
1/ “posted M \pw Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
up a,rs~’««'ifas
torV Court op Pvrr C Ji ONE , E fi NG> 2/6 ‘ Secret His
Writer 1/ a"i N t GL » ND '’ post - Covers' Letter
ukitlr, I/ - . All About Incubators i/« \f nß
cans reemasonry Exposed, Key to’ all Degrees
Sd^oosted^To^r VEST Pocket D,c,S
Id P °f d ' nl! ™!/ '/6 post. Jngersoll's Works
posted ' rlmoll R , EAD lleads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
Breld and E B scu t AD ßa C ker T s° Avn'T 3/6 , posted
Assistant 1/« rrid, ,i? AK ® RS AND SUGAR-BoiLERS
y^2£a 3rS’.'B ESS
Kr ” 'BSST"’ «S 2
Curf D 9 ’u- 13 ' Nervousness and Iti
Dictionary P ?7nn' Webster's Large Unabridged
mv Dr?c 15/ nl&A 600 illuS " lather bound
Bootmakinc Awn* nt ld (why pav 3 and 4 -uineas ?)
rsoor.WAKING AND REPAIRING, I/O Dynamos ANI
Ant ECT 'nd ?ol.°p R iAtp /2 m MOORE ' s Universal Assist
bound!' 10/6 p™ xi? SE R R C p'T« lol6 r pa = eS ’ d ° tf
1/. n t Ofio n,„T E Seorkys op Clairvoyance
comnlete). i°/« ported ME | G? l r ' S Af , ( "' ords R and rau f
Paine, nested Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney
(ONLY)


V
TO
N
*
$
3v
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain —known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump ”
—you get irritable —you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
3
The Wine of Lite
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
‘Wincarnis’ for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
s~l Wear* j
(jossard
VCORNETS
JheyLace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 12th July, 1917.
Tenders for Supply of 60-b.h.p. Semi-
Diesel Oil Engine for Quarantine
Service for Port Darwin.
will be received, subject to the
_l_ conditions of tendering, until 12 noon on
Wednesday, Bth August, 1917. for the supply
of a 60 b.h.p. Semi-Diesel Oil Engine, deliv-
ered at Naval Depot, Williamstown.
Further particulars may be obtained from
Commonwealth of Australia Gazette
No. 110 of 12th July, 1917, obtainable at
any Post Office, or at the Office of the Direc-
tor of Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Mel-
bourne.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 19th July, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply from Stock of
Machine Tools for Henderson Naval
Base, Fremantle, W.A.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 22nd August, 1917, for
the supply and delivery of Machine Tools for
Henderson Naval Base, Fremantle, W.A.
Delivery to be made f.o.r. at Henderson
Naval Base.
Further particulars may be obtained from
Commonwealth of Australia Gazette
of 19th July, obtainable at any Post Office,
or at the Office of the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, Navy Office, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS 8; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
An Epoch in Vaudeville.
COLOSSAL SUCCESS OF MISS
ADA REEVE,
World’s most famous Comedienne and a brilliant
Vaudeville Co.
1"IVOI.I THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
MISS NELLIE STEWART
as
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRUItY,
IN SERIAL FORM.
VAUDEVILLE IN ADDITION.
Prices: 4/-, 3/- 2/- and 1/-. _
C RITE It lON THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MARIE TEMPEST,
England’s Greatest Comedy Actress, in Henry Arthur
Jones’s last Comedy,
MARY GOES FIRST.
GRAHAM BROWNE in association.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MOST WONDERFUL DRESS DISPLAY EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
CAN AI! Y COTTA GE.
The last word in loveliness and liveliness.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES and JACK WALLER present
LOOK WHO’S H ERE.
A KALEIDOSCOPIC INNOVATION.
Glowing with gladness of the season when the
heart is young.
Plans at Nicholson s.
Q ONSERVATORIU.W HALL, SYDNEY.
FAREWELL RECITALS.
SAT., JULY 28 ; WED., AUGUST 1 (matinPe) ;
THURS., AUGUST 2; SAT., AUGUST 4.
LEO, JAN & MISCHEL
CHIiIINIAVSKY.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEy.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; ‘Hon.- R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., Iv.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. Consulting Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. IV. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed; . ~£"21,566^,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. , -
Write for prospectus and full information without delay. , -N:vV .' *•»
Amusements.
TRIANGLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
\t ISIT O R "s T O SYDNEY.
” An addressed, stamped envelope will bring to
you by return mail a list of current attractions at
principal Sydney Theatres, etc.
WHAT’S ON? ADVERTISING CO.,
85 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MEEHOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 28.
J, C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive
THE ARCADIANS.
The Musical Play of Perennial Popularity.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
II E A T R E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 28.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
IvATHLENE MACDONELL
In JEAN WEBSTER’S Full o’ Smiles Play,
DADDY LONG LEGS.
ING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
J. & N. TAIT will present their Specially
Augmented English Comedy Drama Co. in
OUT THERE.
J. Hartley Manners’ New Grippingly Human Play of
Thrills and Laughter.
SARA ALLGOOD AS ’AIJNTED ANNIE.
Box Plans at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE,
in
THE STORY OF THE ROSARY.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/> 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
HE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JULY 26.
Also July 28, 31, and August 2.
RETURN OF THOSE FAVORITE SINGERS,
EVELYN HOWARD
SCOTNEY, WHITE,
Australia’s Brilliant Songbird. The Popular Basso.
Plan at Allan’s.
Majestic theatre, Melbourne.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
WILLIAM S. HART
in a new Western thriller,
WOLF LOWRY.
And
ANITA STEWART
in
TIIE MORE EXCELLENT WAY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Night at 8.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
WRINKLES
How the Japanese Banish them for ever.
Accept this great offer made to intro-
duce in this country a totally new
method, guaranteed to perma-
nently remove even the
deepest creases within
one week.
Nothing even remotely resembling this
new Japanese method has ever been heard of
in this country before. That is the only
reason why so many women now have
wrinkles and still consider them incurable.
I want one thousand
ladies in this country
to remove their wrin-
kles by this method
and agree 'to recom-
mend it to their
friends AFTER it has
done all I claim. This
is frankly an advertis-
ing offer, but the names
and addresses will be
treated as strictly con-
fidential and not used
in any way. I prefer
applicants to be from
forty to seventy years
of age, and the more wrinkled their faces are
the more pleased I shall be to make them
look ten to thirty years younger.
Remember I am not asking some ridicu-
lously exorbitant price to try this method,
nor do I charge you for any “instruc-
tions.” I bind no one to secrecy, and
do not claim ability to remove wrinkles
by means of any sort of “flesh food,”
face powder, plasters, lotions or pastes,
prescriptions, medicines, steaming, ban-
dages, masks, electricity, exercises, mas-
sage, apparatus or any mechanical appli-
ances whatsoever. In fact, I have no toilet
articles of any kind to sell you for removing
wrinkles, and I do not recommend any com-
plicated “treatment” or “system,” either
duplex, triplex or any other sort of “plex.”
I guarantee to hold this offer open to all
applicants for three months from the time
this announcement appears. SEND NO
MONEY, but, if convenient, three penny
stamps may be enclosed for my posting ex-
penses. There is no obligation of any kind.
Merely address Mme. Y. Miyako (Suite
23A), 4S Dover Street, London, W.L,
England, and your letter will receive prompt
attention, under plain, sealed cover. I agree
to return even your postage in full, if you
are not surprised, astonished and delighted
by what I send you.
i
<?
>
BEFORE.
FOR
QUICK RESULTS'
USE
AFTER
<§PILLfIRINE
No otlier moustache preparation
produces such excellent results as
CAPILLARINE. Its efficacy is
being daily experienced by hun-
dreds of users. Try a jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 .TAR, POST FREE.
CRAIG g AirKEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
Established over 80 Years.
ROBERTS MOTORS XOR BOATS
H.P., Bore 3J inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
8 H.P.,
Bore 34 inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
4 11. P.,
Bore 3J inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
The Roberts 2=Cycle Motors
have demonstrated to their world users that economically
patented features, coupled with carefulness in construction, I
produce as good satisfaction in this motor at a low price as can |
be obtained by other high-priced motors. We are open for
dealers for this country. Specifications and terms furnished on
application. Roberts Standard Maine Type, 4-16 h.p.
Heavy duty, slow speed, 8 h.p.
EOBEHTS MOTORS
1600 «•>—*•> c i „vrrn?s s r i me soMo^' a ““ k ''' ow - *’•••*•
Marine Engines
For All Boats
CalUe 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Lights
Callle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It7tolo
Miles an Hour
Cattle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Ravtrsirg Gear on Sami Baso at Engina
A most complete
line of marine
motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails gladly mailed
on request. When
writing, please
state which type of
engine interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.


HOYT’S PICTHRES
Two features every night, 3 hours —12.000 feet of 'film —8 to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
IDEAL FILM PLAYS.—The all-British-made Films, showing one week
before any other Theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City G2IS and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: Gd. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
y
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
Throat«»
UrtstoV &*•"!“
Diges
&•**
v ;~.
free
trial<
bottle
Keep Free
from Colds
Prevention is Better than Cure.
. r ® s ' s t colds, influenza, bronchitis, there is no-
thing better than a course of Angier’s Emulsion.
ts soothing, healing effects and its tonic invigorat-
ing influence upon all the bodily functions make it
unequalled for the prevention of colds and catarrhal
a ections. If the cold or cough has already com-
menced, Angier’s is the best means of throwing it
oti and repairing the damage it has caused. Phy-
sicians and hospitals have used Angier’s for over
twenty-five years.
f*?s! name and address,
ANGIEK CHEMICAL CO.,
f^P° s 'ase. and mention this paper.
LID., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Optimism : A poisonous tree cultivated by
censors for the shelter of slackers.
Looking at the difference between Aus-
tralian political promise and performance,
it’s not so much a matter of Winning the
War as of Hughesing the War.
It’s a forked tongue that clamors for com-
pulsion to raise all Australia’s, commercial
forces to exterminate the Hun in the trade
war, and yelps against the principle when
Australia’s blood is the stake.
N. S. Wales is still the shocking example
in the matter of big estates. Of all. the
unimproved land value held by Ma State
people 4G per cent, is in lots of over £5000;
Vic. comes next with 38 per cent.; Wes-
tralia is third with 33 per cent; S. Aus. and
the Speck tie at 32 per cent.
Cocky has been so often bumped between
two stools that at last he seems almost
awake. For a start, his N. S. Wales con-
ference has just passed a resolution in favor
of substituting Elective Ministries for the
Party Government foolishness, with prefer-
ential voting, proportional representation
and the initiative and referendum.
The S. M. Herald expresses disgust:—
It is an unfortunate thing that in most, if not
all, British communities we have not learned to
grasp the abstract conception of the State; to us it
represents a group of politicians, changing every
few years, squabbling continuously among themselves,
and absolutely incapable of inspiring in us either
confidence or the spirit of service.
Well, if Party Government is as bad as that
—and it is —why doesn’t the Herald help to
change it for something more decent?
What should Germany- want with naval
battles in which both sides are likely to get
hurt? The destruction of the British Fleet
by internal explosions is only a matter of
time, apparently, and the blowing up of one
anchored Dreadnought and DX) seamen is a
fair-sized victory in itself. Why should the
Hun command attempt to do openly and
riskily the very thing which the forces of
treachery are almost offered facilities to do
unobserved ?
There is a yell at the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to let the public have the wheat it
has bought instead of making a dead loss by
letting mice eat it. But, as a matter of fact,
the Government isn’t losing anything. It is
the farmers who have to stand all the loss.
They get paid not for the wheat that goes
info the pool, but for what comes out of it.
If’there is any kick due to the Government
it is for taking the wheat out of Cocky’s
control, as it did, and making him responsi-
ble for what happens to it afterwards.
“Copabella”: When a proposition was
made to add a stinkery or two to the Yarra
at Richmond-Hawthorn the press printed
many columns about “the march of pro-
gress” and the “pollution of our noble river.”
Melbourne City Council now proposes to
make the equally noble and even nearer
Maribyrnong River at West Melbourne the
noxious-trades area of Melbourne. But only
the common herd lives out that side —and let
’em be stunk out: who cares? Anyway, I
have heard no yell from the press this time.
There is probably some s'gnifieance in the
singular unanimity which distinguished the
two candidates concerned in Vic.’s latest
Assembly by-election—a struggle for the
safe Liberal, Western District seat of Pol-
wartli, vacated by Johnstone, of Colac.
James McDonald, who grows apples at In-
verleigh, fought it out with Charles Mere-
d:th, a Colac farmer. Both advocated what-
ever it is that the Economy Party advo
cates. Both had “sound” views regard ng
labor. Both couldn’t get in ; and it merely
happened to be McDonald who was in the
lead at the end.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : Oh, these poli-*
ticians! On France’s Day two of them,
Ministers of the Crown in N. S. Wales,
captured some public applause by announc-
ing that the Government intended to convey
to the Government of France for ever an
acre of land at La Perouse, where there
stands a monument to the unlucky French
navigator. Now, nearly 100 years ago this
very land was set apart by Governor Bris-
bane—in 1824, to be exact —ns a gift for
ever to France, and surely this must have
been known to the two Ministers who made
the announcement.
The Council of the Australian Protection-
ist Association (Vic.) has been censuring
the Federal Government for its failure to
prevent the dumping of luxuries. Up to the
end of May. laments the A.P.A.. 11 months
importations of apparel exceeded those for a
similar period ending May, 1914, by more
than £4,000,000. Prior to the May elections
the Ass. made a few solemn protests to tne
Government, and quoted yards of alarming
figures; but when it came to an actual show-
down the Ass. and its supporting press quite
failed .to pull or push anybody or anything
in the desired direction. The incurable pot-
tdrers of the concern tamely ended up by
relying on the piecrust promises of the place-
hungry Prime Minister, and the usual thing
happened
Wilhelm’s submarines have given Aus-
tralia a further instalment of Protection.
Before August, 1914, we used to get most of
our lamp-glasses from Bavaria ; the rest came
from Amurrika —especially the glass for the
hurricane-lamp that Billjim’s old man
carries when he pokes round the stable at
night. For two years the prices in Mel-
bourne steadily rose till the ordinary lamp-
glass —the thing with a 3in. bottom and a
crinkled top—got from 6d. to Is. retail. To-
day it is 9d., wholesale 6s. 6d. The explana-
tion is a sizeable factory out Essendon way
—a factory whose owners are still waiting
to hear that Parliament has supplied them
with post-war Protection. If they don’t get
that, they know what will happen. We shall
be employing the foreigner to make lamp-
glasses while supplying our own unemployed
with relief works paid for with lOU’s.
HIS CASE DIAGNOSED.
“Mr. Chamberlain suffered from a lack of information throughout, and he learned the truth only when
the situation was desperate/’ —Note on a British Inquiry.
MEDICO : “I think this chap's got a touch of the same complaint .”
A recent Tasmanian experience shows up
the idiocy of the Parliamentary party sys-
tem —the system under which Smith must go
on voting with Jones because he agrees with
h.m on one point, though cord.ally d.sagree-
ing with him on 50. When six-o’clock
closing was put to the direct, non-party vote
in Tasmania the other day it was carried
overwhelmingly. Yet when, encouraged by.
that vote, Coid Tea butted into recent by-
elections. it ran nowhere. Which means
that, though the referendum showed a huge
Cold Tea majority, CVd Tea would have no
hope in Par Lament. because there the mem-
bers’ votes are determ.ned by other consider-
at ons altogether. And that is why every
reformer should hold fast to the referendum,
with initiative.
A recent request by Victorian bakers to be
allowed to increase the “fixed” price of
bread was met with a suggestion that these
gentlemen should improve their organisation.
Twelve uproarious youths on as many carts
career down the street delivering each" a pint
of milk to 1G or 18 customers, and an hour
or two later another dozen equally noisy lads
hasten along handing a small loaf or two to
each of 18 or 20 housewives. This process
is repeated in dozens of streets all day long.
The grievous waste didn’t matter quite so
much in days past, when horse-feed was
cheap and milk-ohs could be hired for a half-
sov. a week ; but now that the distributors
have to be paid wages approximating those
of a skilled mechanic it ought to dawn on
the baker —and a lot of other tradesmen —
that only a congenital idiot would indulge
in such a caper.
“Edo”: Pearce, Minister for Defence, has
once more distinguished himself. Early in
the year, when the cry for recruits was
louder than usual, he countenanced the en-
listment of men up to 50 years, trustfully
accepting the recruits’ word ’for their ages.
The result was a crop of toothless, rheumy
old fellows at various centres, particularly
at Blackboy (W.A.). For quite three months
these oldsters were kept in camps, ted,
clothed, paid ss. a day and supplied with
false teeth. Then the brilliant Pearce dis-
covered that men over 45 were useless at
the Front, and the old fellows, mostly enthu-
siasts, were sent back to their homes at
Government expense, with their mouths full
of Government teeth.
A dark shadow is hanging over all men
interested in industrial metal-mining in Aus-
tralia —the possibility of a practical stop-
page of shipping. With so large a percent-
age of the world’s mercantile marine engaged
in war work, and the submarine sending its
quota to the bottom, the position is precari-
ous, and for the first time Australia is begin-
ning to realise that a continent which
obtains most of its manufactured articles
from abroad, and pays for them, together
with interest on its huge loans, by exporting
enormous quantities of raw material, is in a
parlous condition when the supply of ocean-
carriers peters out. Metals are a high price,
and the demand for them across the waters is
urgent; but if they cannot be exported,
cabled quotations are only tantalising. Our
problem is essentially quite different from
Britain's. Britain has turned from manu-
facture to food-production—that way lies
the solution of her problem. Our problem is
how to absorb in manufacture some at least
of the industry which has hitherto been
devoted to the production of food and raw
materials. And that means, first and fore-
most, a guarantee of Protection for new in-
dustries after the war; otherwise capital
will certainly not be available to establish
them during the war.
The N. S. Wales Treasury has just discov-
ered that, though £34.000 was voted for the
new Zoo, the amount actually spent has been
£70,000. This is merely another instance of
the sublime contempt of departmental officers
for. Parliament; and, of course, that is
mainly the Parliament’s own fault, because,
as a rule, the passing of estimates has been
a mere matter of form—frequently the money
has been actually spent long before. Nobody
will, however, ever know what the Zoo has
cost altogether, both directly and indirectly.
But this thing is quite certain: from
the very outset it was a political scandal.
The work, which never ought to have been
touched in wartime, was undertaken for one
reason, and one reason only; to provide
emplovment for various men who were of
present or prospective value to certain poli-
ticians. Further, a thorough inquiry ought
to be made not only into past but into cur-
rent expenditure.
Ma’s Labor Minister Beeby had a brain-
wave about finance the other day and poured
the details out at Dubbo. His idea is that
the public debt should be cut up and appor-
tioned to various revenue-earning undertak-
ings, the transactions of these concerns and
future borrowings being kept in water-tight
compartments. Thus the railways would
be debited with so many millions, and if more
money was being looked for it could be ob-
tained by the issue of railway stock giving
the lender direct collateral security for his
cash. There are possibilities about this
notion which might profitably be investi-
gated. mainly for the purpose, not of sim-
plifying the issue of new loans, as Beeby
seems to think, but of getting public under-
takings on more respectable legs than they
have been supplied with hitherto.
From over the Tasman Sea: —
The howl for closing Bung at six o’clock is loud
and long all over Maoriland. As this is about the
only thing a howl can be raised about without frac-
turing the War Regulations, and as the community is
bursting with anxiety to hit something, the noise has
probably got a punch behind it. Anyhow, it is a
noise that makes Bung wake up with a start in the
middle of the night and wipe the sweat off his neck.
To some of him it sounds horribly like the banshee
calling. Meanwhile there has been more fun in watch-
ing Bill Massey trying to dodge McStiggins. Wil-
liam can handle the affairs of Empire and Mowhango-
painuiki with the easy poise of a statesman, but
when it comes to handling Booze and the water-
waggoners, he holds himself firmly in reserve. It
looks as if the front doors are going to bang, all
the same; and what may bang after that Heaven
alone can tell. McStiggins seems to be getting his
blood up.
Once more Trethowan, M.L.C., President
of the Federated Cockies, has been publicly
holding his nose and calling for chloride of
lime while he mentioned recent State land
resumptions in N. S. Wales for “repatriation
purposes.” Simultaneously Lands Minister
Ashford has been denying that he could smell
anything, and calling upon Trethowan to
make “specific charges.” This paper does not
know what the Boss Cocky has up his sleeve.
But it knows what the resumption of estates
means as a general thing. It means the
conversion of inflated values into public debt
—the burdening of working farmers and the
taxpaying public with a ruinous load. If
we are to escape social disorder the taxation
of land values must come, and come quickly.
That alone is a reason why these always hole-
and corner schemes of resumption should be
given the boot —-and why almost every com-
mission agent and monopolist on the con-
tinent is an enthusiastic x'esumptionist.
In the Bill just introduced, earnings from
pastoral pursuits are exempted from the pro-
posed Commonwealth war-time profits tax.
Why? These pastoral people are much less
entitled to any excess profits than, say, the
manufacturer or even the shopkeeper, because
abnormal receipts from cattle and sheep have
been in no way due to extra energy or the
risking of more capital. Squatters have
made their huge extra profits wholly and
solely through higher prices; and those
higher prices have been wholly and solely
due to the war. Nobody in all this country
is less entitled to escape; nobody, perhaps,
is more surprised than they are themselves
that it should be proposed to let them escape.
Altogether the list of exemptions is absurdly
long. It is, in fact, very doubtful whether
there should be any exemptions at all—that
is, any exemption of profits di" to the war.
An exception may have *to be made in favor
of new industries; but even those would
hardly be entitled to it if they were assured
of adequate Protection after the war.
“E. Due” : There are about SOOO students
in the secondary schools of N. S. Wales,
7000 of them being in the State High
Schools ; and there is a great fear amongst
this army that it will not be possible to get
the necessary text-hooks from England for
next year. As far as language works are
concerned, it is criminal of the authorities
to think of taking up valuable room on the
boats with such things. The text of the
books required is. nine times out of ten (say,
for example, in French), too stale for copy-
right to hold good. These surely could be
printed here. As they are required for only
one year, cheaper editions than are usually
supplied would do. The authorities could
then make sure that the type was suitable
and unlikely to cause eye-strain. The
teachers could be supplied, if necessary, with
annotated copies from abroad, if it was not
thought desirable to go to the expense of
printing the notes as well. If all the other
States would see that, as far as practicable,
the same hooks were set for study, money
would be saved and a few Australian printers
kept busy. As for the subjects other than
languages, if all the States would agree on
the books required, there is no reason why
they' should not be written as well as printed
in Australia. Present conditions do not give
a show to anyone who puts a text-book on
the market, i can vouch for that; so can
my publishers.


THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
Tlie banisher of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument, which
everyone can play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Player indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
THE SUPERB CHAPPELL,
PIANO,
The Finest Piano made in England.
Established in 1812. Superb in Tone,
Construction and Finish.
Also Estey Organs.
PALING’S PIANOS
AND
Player Pianos.
These illustrations are but a few examples of the beautiful
Player Pianos and Pianos sold by us. In their various
grades they fulfil the utmost expectation.
Each instrument has been specially selected bv our experts
and embodies over half-a-century’s experience. Tone-
quality and durability are special features.
Any model can be purchased on our time-payment system
if desired, this makes it wonderfully easy to at once purchase
a high-grade fully-guaranteed piano or player piano.
If you cannot make it convenient to call at our Show Rooms
to inspect these delightful instruments, please write to-night
for our fully-illustrated Catalogue and particulars of our
easy terms. We will gladly post them to you.
W. H. PALING 8 CO. LTD.
338 Georg'e Street.
SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore 8 Toowoomba.
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
Makes Home-life Happier. America's
most artistic Player. Exquisite tone
quality anil touch.
THE ESTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for hot climates,
Stands in tune for very long periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
Everything Musical.
za
Welding 18in. diameter Steel Gas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds.
oxy -AC
W/ll
i
me
Anv work of Iron or Steel welding or cutting can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It ‘dl new
the Engineering trade. Broken parts that once were useless can now be successfully welded and made new
again This too in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
of pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxv-Acetylene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process w ill make new again:
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes,
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Keywajs in Shafts.
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
' Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, y Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published by Charles Griffin & Co., London, states.
“Within the last few vears welding by -oxy-hydrogen and oxy-acetylene blow-
nines has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.,
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS.
COG WHEELS, etc.
n>v OLI TWIT EXPERT To-dav is the day of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
- A is thorough efficient' and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
he conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
THTT PINfiTNEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxv-Acetylene process is not abreast of the times; lie is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence.
Throughout the world to-day the Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest scientific addition to every engineering
workshop "which fitted with process, has an advantage over the opposition impossible to estimate. It is simple,
wSnderfuny effectiveT its price P is trifling, and the plant is portable. Whether the broken parts require to be cut
or welded at the bench or by the roadside is Of no consequence.
■ ■ ,■!
mm
■
. MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street,
Agents krjsisANE: Evans, Heakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., AVyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Etd., Murray Street.
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Acetylene Works, Flinders Street,
Adelaide.


If the war is not over by the year’s end it
will be because its purpose, the democratisa-
tion of Germany, is not quite achieved, sug-
gested that wise spirit King George IY. top-
notch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO„ PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Shaving with an old-fashioned
razor is nothing but a habit.
Once try a Gillette and you
would not go back to the old
style for ten times its cost. The
NO STROPPING NO HONING
makes shaving easier, more
comfortable and cheaper.
Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
try it in your
BATH
BV
appointment
&
TO
h.m. the king.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
The runners-up in the two Nationals had
air outing at Caulfield last Saturday, and each of
them was a hot pot for his race. Caibye, starting at
2 to 1, landed the Steeple easily enough. A surprise
in this event was' the forward running of Union
Arms, a gelding, imported by the Tyes, that was
getting 461 b. ilbm the winner. The fall of Waimai
was a greater surprise. Seeing that the Maoriland
champion had jumped the National course when he
had only just arrived at Flemington, it seemed safe
to back him to stand up at Caulfield a week later.
But half-way in the journey the expert fencer made
a mistake, which goes to suggest that the change of
climate is not suiting him too well at present. Bun-
dong, a 7 to t favorite for the Hurdle, finished second
for the third time in succession. Colonel Light,
carrying nearly as much weight as the vaunted favor-
ite, led from start to finish. Bundong nearly caught
him at the last hurdle, but the outsider was first to
land and he seemed to have most steam for the run
home. Anyhow, he won by a length, so the alleged
brilliancy of the disappointing Bundong is at last
under grave suspicion. Three times lie has been
advertised as a certainty, and each time he has failed
at the finish over hurdles. He jumps with unfailing-
correctness, and is apparently quite equal to steeple-
chase fences. If Bundong can’t win the big Hurdle
Race at Caulfield on August 4, he has a chance.of
doing better in the long and slower event a week
later.
It is remarked of Old Mungindi that he shows
more intelligence in racing than the average nag,
and where there are many obstacles in the way a
bit of, brains is a big 'consideration. It keeps the
possessor out of mischief where many another fellow
might come to grief. Carbine had more brains than
most of his kind. Poseidon was conspicuously intel-
ligent in a race. He could be seen threading his
way through the mob. The jockey used to take hints
from the gee. And Old Mungindi has probably in-
herited his father’s mental powers. He “knows how
to take care of his blanky self.”
* * * *
Everything that ran prominently in either
of the Nationals is given a flattering show for the
Australian Hurdle and Steeple, which will be worth
£l2op and £l3OO respectively to the winners.
With a lot of latest and trustworthy form to go
upon, the Caulfield handieapper can hardly be caught
napping when he serves out weights for the big
August events; and now that it is the rule to
refrain from crushing the top weights, or penalising-
the National winners vindictively, punters get plenty
of scope for reasonable argument. At present there
are at least a dozen in each race with an obvious
chance to do as well as they did at Flemington, or
better. 'Bundong, Merunqua, Pistolier, Nick-a-Jaek,
Lord Grey, Van Homreigh, Royal Precedent, Obi,
Mac-naughty, Coronatus, King Mostyn and others are
available for the Hurdle, and the handieapper has
been unkind to none of them. For instance, the
ancient Obi has 71b. less than he carried into second
place last 3 r 6ar, whilst Aan Homreigh, being much
less apeient, has gone up 81b. for beating him. The
sturdy Van is a first-class fencer in private, so he
may be given a chance against Caibye, Old Mungindi,
Waimai and the rest of them in the Steeplechase
where veteran Booligal is let off with 61b. less than
he ran second with two years ago. Caibve is allowed
81b. for his defeat by Mungindi the other Saturday.
The writer reckons that the winner is the more likely
to improve between times and is therefore the more
attractive investment of the stylish pair. On the
other hand, it is probable that Waimai, not long off
boat and train when he ran third to them at Fleming-
ton, will be- the most improved of the trio next
month. He gets a further concession of 41b. from
Caibye, and receives five from Mungindi instead of
giving seven. But in appearance the Maoriland horse
is quite a commoner compared with the other two,
and he was only a poor third to them in the Grand
Nat.
* * *
Most of the winners at Rosehill (Sydney)
on Saturday are listed in bigger races to come
shortly. Among them is Two Blues, weighted at
7st. 71b. in the Epsom and 7st. 61b. in the Metro-
politan. This nag won on same course a year
ago, but has done very little since. He started with
Bst. 61b. in the Flying at Canterbury Park on June
30 at any old price, and ran accordingly. On Satur-
day he was solidly backed in the Carlingford Mile
with 9st. 61b., and made no mistake about it. This
horse may be heard from again. Another winner was
Aorbury, appropriator of last Newcastle Cup, who
in a moderate field with Bst. 81b. was backed down
to evens for the principal race. He ran according
to specifications. Norbury is allotted Bst. in the
Metrop. and 31b. Jess in each of the two big Clips.
The Antonio-Gay Girl filly Amber Rose,
who won over six furlongs at Rosehill last month,
was on Saturday again in the same place at the end
of the same distance on the same course. This time
she carried 9st. and had a sharp tussle with a new-
comer named Tom Splendor. Tom is a youngster
that has not been knocked about and looks like devel-
oping into something useful. Amber Rose is one
of the few of the rising generation who may be
suspected of being able with increasing age to staj r .
She is a very nice filly.
Isn’t it about time one or other of the prin-
cipal racing clubs tried to find out what the handi-
cappers are up to, what they are paid for, and to
what extent their work conforms with the club’s
ideas? In theory the business of the handicapper is
to bring the nominated horses together—to give all
hands a chance. What actually happens is that after
a horse has won a race or two the weight-fixer says
to himself “No more for you,” falls on the wretched
animal, and reduces it to the- monotonous contract
of starting in multitudinous races without a chance,
in order to qualify for an opportunity of winning
again later on. There is something horribly wrong
about all this. One result is to produce a lot of
inferior nags as winners and to keep better-class
horses toiling painfully in the rear. Up to a certain
point w T eight matters very little. Condition and dis-
tance matter most. But when the public sees a horse,
after winning over say six furlongs a couple of
times, handicapped in a mile-and-a-half event as if
the races had been over that distance, and when it
knows that the animal could not see the journey out
with only the saddle aboard, the episode creates an
impression that someone has been shooting in the
dark. The object of a racing club should be to
unearth the best horses of their kind. Handicapping
does nothing to help this. A far more rational plan
would be to divide programmes into events for differ-
ent classes of horses, into which entrance would be
gained by performance, and run them all on weight
for age. The result of that would be to clear out a
lot of mongrels early in the proceedings, put a
hurry-up argument behind the waiter, and make the
racecourse test a true one. To see a couple of third-
raters winning what half a dozen good, honest horses
are prevented from acquiring is one of the pathetic
features of every race meeting, and the disastrous
consequences are sprinkled over hundreds of pedi-
grees, giving to them a significance entirely false.
-* * * *
“Mujik” : The interested individuals who
were asked to formulate a scheme of sport-curtail-
ment in N. S. Wales for the Federal Government’s
information have brilliantly solved the problem by
practically denying that there should be any curtail-
ment at all. They contemplate a cut at the Wednes-
day pony meetings, but horse racing is to progress as
merrily as before, with ample provision for trots.
If the Government has an idea that the prevalence
of race meetings and other forms of “sport” hinders
it in winning the war, then its duty is obvious—
to do what it believes to be the right thing and take
the responsibility. But responsibility does not rest
TOMMY LYONS,
chairman of the
Tas. Racing Clud.
only with the Federal
Government. That there
is far too ranch racing
in the country is
denied by no one
whose opinion is worth
listening to. The case
for an overhaul of
racing rests on consid-
erations of public
decency, on concern
for the turf and for
the maintenance of the
really sporting in-
stinct among racing
men. Dragging the
war in means missing
the bull’s-eye. There
are a multitude of
racing clubs which
should be compul-
sorily extefminated
and others which
should be forced to
change their charac-
ter. That would not
give us an army, but
it would give us
cleaner premises to
live in.
“Spreader”: There’s an old bald-faced,
brown horse to be seen any day of the week in a
yard on Clarendon-road, Sydney, with the bone, girth
and quarters of .a city lorry hauler, that no average
sport would believe was Positano, sire of several
Melbourne Cup winners. He won a Spring Stakes
20 years ago himself, and might have won the Mel-
bourne Cup with a bit of luck. His most sensational
eolt was Poseidon, sire of Old Utangfndi—the former
was beaten by Solution in the Metropolitan as a
three-year-old, but his form in Melbourne later in
the year proved him a champion of the first flight.
His first crop of yearlings created a boom. Jacinth’s
foal, Orchid, brought 3000 guineas, but his plucky
buyer never got as many shillings in return; in
fact, the speculator didn’t get one decent stake-
winner till Old Mungindi took a turn, j
* * * *
Ihe crop of defaulting bank-cashiers who
been feeding Israel gives the knock to a vara
which most punters are fond of listening to. Among
the more fatuous of the tribe there is a firm belief in
the theory that “if you stick at it long enough a
win is certain.” This is interpreted to mean that
if the reserve is only big enough the tide must begin
to run back. But it is just plain foolishness, for the
uninstructed, badly-informed bettor must mostly
lose, whether he deals with Ike or the tote. And
nine out of 10 punters are ignorant of the game
they are play mg. .With brains and method and a
gieat lestramt against butting in on the blind, some
men have won and continue to win. But their num-
uf r +hf n V ? r T hmlte *‘ Y . et . compare the cocksureness
,? v ? ra ?? punter with the caution of men who
spend their lives among horses! In the hands of a
citizen who habitually rushes forward to pick the
programme the whole of the war loan would evapo-
rate as surely as a week’s wages. ‘
O. Blin” : The new Vic. bettin°‘ tnv faiia
to hit I. MacShortodds fairly in the cash-ba°-. For
some obscure reason he is not charged a fixed per-
Centage on his takings like other traffickers in amuse-
ment, but has a small com wrenched from him for
fj e . r 7 , t i cket . he issues ; The result of this system
is that Isaac is as sparing as possible in the distribu-
tion of pasteboard, and, in some cases, will be found
inviting three or four modest punters with* the same
fancy to lodge their bets in one transaction. In-
stances of this were noticeable at the G. N. meeting
at Flemington, women, as a rule, falling in readily
with the suggestion. Sometimes, however, females
are not so friendly. One of them on Saturday inno-
cently placed ss. on a non-starter, and the Hebrew
was casually pencilling the bet when ho noticed his
error and almost forgot lie was in a public place.
Angrily tearing up the ticket, he wailed: “I yish
you vould vatch the scratchin’ poards, madam. 1 our
mithtake hath cotht me thrippenth.”
Melbourne has lost its polo-ground. The
Kooyong Club, which didn't have its 20-acre block at
Kooyong, but away at Caulfield, lias lately found the
value of its land greatly increased by the arrival of
an electric-tram line. As most of the active club
members are playing the bigger game the time
seemed ripe for selling out to a subdividing syndi-
cate which had been clamoring for permission to buy
at a good, round figure ; so the club has taken what
the Fates sent and closed the deal —with some thank-
fulness. Government House will now have to practise
in its own back yard, of course; but the change will
mean a considerable saving for a good many people
who only stuck to the concern because the other
fellow did.
Lieut. Arthur Donnan, of the Maoriland
Forces, killed in France, was the first Herald and
Mail scholar at the Hawkesbury College (N.S.W.).
Afterwards he was appointed Agricultural Inspector
and lecturer to the Technical Collegp at Auckland
(M.L.). Two brothers are in the battle line ; They
belong to the Donnan family well known in Aus-
tralian cricket.
The Red God has claimed another good
Tasmanian sport in France —Charlie Stewart, a few
years back among the best oarsmen on the Denvent.
He and his brothers ran the ferry at Risdon, and in
their spare time made themselves into one of the
best four-oared crews that ever feathered blades on
Tassy’s waters.
Starting from France Lance-sergt. Stuart
Chambers, formerly of Elbow Valley and latterly of
South Brisbane, has followed his brother Arthur, a
major, who was killed in Palestine. Stuart Chambers
was a 20-year-old machine-gunner, and was well
known in Bananaland as a Rugby Union footballer.
The family has two more sturdy sons on the job—
Alec a corporal and Howard a sergeant.
Major Jim Cassidy, who died last week,
aged 87, was a native of Bathurst (N.S.W.), and
the oldest auctioneer in the Ma State. He was the
last of the Western 22 which played against
Stephenson’s All England Eleven in 1862 at Bathurst.
“Grammar’; How about this as au exhibit
to beat the story of “Benno” (B. 19/7/’l7), con-
cerning the experiences of five members of a Sydney
cricket club? In 1915 the “Shore” (Sydney Church
of England Grammar School) second crew in the
Great Public Schools Regatta consisted of J. Black-
wood (bow), J. Small (2), N. S. Griffin (3), R. C.
Milton (stroke), P. C. A. Fornachon (coach). For-
nachon enlisted in ’l5 and has been missing since
soon after he landed at Gallipoli. Jack Small, Jimmy
Blackwood and “Beach” Milton have all been killed
over there somewhere, and the lad who rowed 3,
after being rejected half a dozen times, was at last
accepted and now wears three stripes and the snake’s
skin round his hat with the Light Horse at Menangle.
This page has struck the champion fool-eon-
tributor. He put the word “Obit” before a par con-
cerning Jack Whittle, V.C., the Speck’s heavyweight.
Now he explains that “Obit” is merely his pen-name,
and that Whittle isn’t at all dead. The Bulletin
accordingly resurrects Whittle and kills the con-
tributor.
* *• * *
Wave Geike blew into Sydney Stadium
from Bananaland on Saturday determined to keep
close up against Sid Godfrey and punch his ribs. But
Sidney objected with straight lefts, which kept Mr.
Geike at bay, and then smacked him on the jaw
as an inducement to go on remaining there. The
northerner showed plenty of courage and endurance
and great lack of originality. By the sixteenth he
was very weary, whereupon Godfrey rapidly poked
a couple of lefts into his countenance and sent a
swinging right into the vicinity of the ear. This,
being topped off with another swing which the stricken
Waverley intercepted on the lower mandible, neatly
terminated the proceedings.
Tlie confusion between Owen Cairns and
Sol Jones for the Bananaland Middleweight title,
held at Brisbane on Saturday, was mostly wrestle
and rope-walking. As Cairns had a heavy cargo of
tallow aboard he set about convincing Sol with the
least possible exertion. It didn’t need much. Solomon
is not as young as he was, and a few meaty argu-
ments in the bingy quickly appeased his appetite.
By the ninth clash he was sitting down from sheer
lack of support, and in the next round suddenly
remembered an appointment. The referee, however,
wouldn’t excuse him until he had taken a couple
more helpings.
* * * *
Mick King, one-time middleweight cham-
pion, returned to Sydney last week from an unautho-
rised trip to America and was asked to explain the
matter to a magistrate. It transpired that Mick had
not noticed the proclamation calling on men of
military age to register, and had forgotten to get a
passport, and disappeared on a steamer without get-
ting a band to play. Whereupon the Court ordered
Mick to find £lO and told him it might have been
a century.
* * * *
“Friar Tuck”: Believers and disbelievers
in premonitions of death can shape up and have
another go with the ghost of Larry Foley as the
referee. About 10 days before he died, and when
apparently in the best of health, Larrv sent for his
old-time opponent, Sandy Ross, saying he would
like t° have a final chat with him, as he felt he
would not live much longer. Sandy (who at 76 is
chucker-out at a suburban racecourse) accepted the
invitation, and the final chat duly took place.
M aterloo Cup decided last
week at Wernbee Park (Vic.) was again won by the
Southern-owned dog Brown Hawk (Comedy Ivfng—
New A ear) which last year beat the N.SAV. bitch
Beauty Spot in the final course. This time the pair
were drawn in the semi-final. The lady was ?erv
nm d Tn the fi™i T*" had , the best of a slashing
e he was slipped with Batlow a
little brother of the beauty, and the rest was ea.sv
After having two dogs in the last four and making
?“T Benn ett, the owner of Beautv Spot and Bat
low knew more about hard luck than he did at the
start. Brown Hawk is a big fawn dog, close on 701 b?
in weight. Although not exceptionally fast he is
wonderfully clean and determined worker. a
Brisbane is to see a revival of footracing
in a week or two. The business will be run by th
men who have been behind the proceedings at Tlenf
ington (Vic.), and as they have kept things in order
there with an axe the weapon will probably be used
up north. Anyway, unless it is the revival win
quickly qualify for the crematorium, for the pro
moter of running who does not stand behind the
proceedings with a handful of sharp ironmongery
lost. A match between old man Postle and Gerald
Taylor is on the opening programme.
James O. Anderson, whose play in the
N.S.AV. Lawn Tennis Championship Tourney gives
him a claim to he considered the State’s singles
champion, goes into khaki this month. Anderson is
another of the younger generation of crack athletes
whose hopes of getting, to the top are blotted out by
the war. In halcyon times he might well have been
speculating on his chances for the Davis Cup team.
J. R. Hooper (holder) permitted 6. B
Shailer (challenger) to have only a brief look-in for
the N.S.W amateur billiard championship (3000 up)
at Sidney last week. Hooper wound up the first dav
with' 602 against 377, and the gap went on widening
until the champion ran out 866 ahead. It was one
of the biggest majorities in the history of the event
Hooper seems to be the smartest amateur the State
lias known since J. B. Belfield made his great splash
in the early ’CD's. ,
* * * *
R. Leech, the Sydney professional cyclist, .
is having a great season. At each of the last three
week-ends he has won the double—mile handicap
and scratch- event —sandwiched between the football
halves; and he performed the trick once previously
Leech is easily the best pedaller in Sydney profes-
sional cycling these lean days.
* * * *
At Bathurst (N.S.W.) recently a number
of shooters took on the job of slaughtering pigeons
in aid of France, and £lOO was paid for admission
to the ground. The shoot produced a lady. Miss K.
Carr, who won the Novice Handicap, killing seven
out of nine pigeons with the first barrel. It i s
claimed that Miss Carr (who also handles a rifle
well) is the only lady pigeon-shot in Australia. This
pag» hopes so.
“C.J.W.”: It is not often anyone hears of
a fox killing a dog, but it happened a few weeks
ago, on McDonald's place at Little Plain, up Armidale
way (N.S.W.). While McDonald was riding through
a paddock he sighted a fox and despatched two grey-
hounds, which were accompanying him, to do their
worst. By biting one on the nose the stranger forced
it to stop for repairs. The other dog (evidently of
sterner stuff than his mate) followed the fox, but
omitted to return. Next day he was found dead, with
a chewed nose and severe bites on the skull.
The pairs championship in N.S.W. bowls
has been won by Williams and Young from Woonona,
down Tllawarra way. They outed some strong metro-
politan couples, and in the final won easily from
Harrison and Maclaren, of Ashfield.
* * * *
“Konini” : They come from the ends of the
earth to angle in Maoriland’s streams and lakes, and
some of the affluent tramps, particularly the English,'
make it a whole-hog outing. Recently a Johnnie
landed 1060 fish (mostly trout) in two months ! The
average was 41b. and the heaviest 111 b.
N.S.W. sporting bodies begin to substitute
War Loan Stamps and Certificates for hard cash as
prize-money. The A.J.C. makes a start by notifying
that during the coming season half of the added
money will take the form of certificates; and as the
club’s added money totalled £65,000 last year
Bigjohn Forrest is likely to say “Hear, hear!”
Among Sydney rifle-clubs the innovation goes still
further, and the whole of the prize-money will be
paid in war certificates.
WHEN KIND WAYS BROKE HIS NECK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
He’d a gentle eye and manner, and he never raised
a heel;
He’d respond “like a pianuer” when his rider’s touch
he’d feel;
But no stable he’s adorning and our dreams all came
to wreck
On that cold and foggy morning when old Kind?’
Ways broke his neck.
At his best the poor old neddy seemed a trifle out
of date;
Kveryone who saw him said he couldn't pull a load
of hate,;.
There was nothing of the charger in his make-up, you
could see,
And his eye was mild and larger than a horse’s eye
should be.
Now some hundredweight of kindness from a world
of rage and care
Has departed in its blindness with its four hoofs in
the air; "it* ...
Sleeping sou fidly at the ;knackcf’s, to all .joy it was a
check;
Shadows fell on Peace’s backers when old Kind Ways
broke iiis neck.
N.S.W.
THE PUNTER.


V
w
%
ft
Prepare for Victory
Health and Strength arc the essentials to enable
you to overcome obstacles and enemies.
I have written a book, fully illustrated, telling how
you can obtain these attributes.
I want you to read it —the information contained
in its pages will point you the way to perfect
health and strength.
1 describe how my system banishes indigestion, con-
stipation. tones up the system, reduces surplus
weight, builds up muscular frame, etc.
If you are sincere in your desire to have perfect
health send three penny stamps to-day for a copy
which will be mailed by return post. Your name
and address across this advertisement will suffice.
REG.L.csn«y (BAKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
' or Australia,”
634 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
I C
ill
Wherever
You Need
Current
COLUMBIA
Batteries
are used to
run engines and
tractors, motor
cars and motor
boats. They
ring bells; oper-
ate telephones
and signals; light
lanterns and portable lights.
Columbia
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries. They
operate as well for heavy as for light
work. They are portable, compact,
non-corrosive—easily connected in the
circuit. Dependable, uniform, strong.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
so constructed as to give satisfactory
results under every
climatic condition.
They are protected by
moisture-proof cartons
and carefully packed.
Dealers: I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from 11s :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
"Carbon Cleveland ”
|;;vN o.Qxi
"Ignitob"
SAMSON HORNS.
Every Motorist Wants a Good Horn, and they
get it in the “SAMSON,” which can be used
in five different positions.
No. 35“Sam$on-Tiger”(ll"overall), 25/- each
No. 36 “Samson-Tiger” ( Motor-cycle), 24/6 each
No. 45 “ Samson-Lion” over all), 21, - each
No.46“Samson-Lion” (Motor-cycle', 21/- each
The above Hand Horns Post Free anywhere in
Australasia. Vibrator and Motor Horns from
16/-. Ask for Catalogue No. 3008.
RAMSAY SHARP & CO. LTD.,
217 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Write for Appointment as District Aoent.
SHEL
Jn Any,
Condition
m
BENZINE
IS RELIABLE
F^EUAI
THE SPIRIT”
OF THE WAR
THE ENEMY OF
BRITISHERS
ENEMIES.
*5«
In the Out-back—these are
the ways of bygone days.
The Modern Way is on
THE WORLD’S GREATEST MOTORCYCLE
Catalogue “D ” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd..
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd., 156 Castlereagh St.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd ,
Adelaide and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Pirie St.
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd., Charles St.
PERTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Hay St,
x
JV
W '
Write for Particulars and Quotations
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bail Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
NATIONAL
BENZINE
/CV
-’2/' JS73
gives to the motor-cyclist a service oj perfection —a clean,
unhampered “run” and a certain economy of EXTRA MILES
per gallon.
Clean and prime, with those responsive qualities that make for power and
unvarying '‘drive,” quick to “pick up,” and of CONSISTENT high quality in
EVERY gallon, “National” is every day—everywhere—proving its great
superiority with motor-cycles, cars, commercial vehicles, motor-boats, and all
benzine-driven plants in factory or on farm. Try “National ’ with J OUR
Engine.
N
All Garages and Storekeepers
can supply National Benzine.
NATIONAL OIL CO.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
Smile
IffllililfflWlifi
ii»:KKKKß»a»;a»;i:«ii
trrrrnZ'
■!iKI!l!l9»IKI!»l!l!
IBiir.l
You know this smile—but do you knon-
EVERMORE
STROPPER
Price 15/-
The only automatic Strapper
which the true Slycle-Stroke
so essential in sharpening any
rn?pr.
Special adapters are provided
with each Strapper for the,
sharpening of any make of
sa/ety-raTpr blade both single
and double ec^ed.
!*(|:kkwii:b:r
LA: "*’d
Arrows :>ho*
Diagonal
Arrowy i’ovy
Diagonal
L-Oorse of
Sw
.
: : •• • i
■
Ask Your Dealer
to Demonstrate k {
OOfflG DOWN
£W» when
GOING VP
wwnKp KdrikJ
IF UNPROCURABLE WRITE BOX*
OR BOX W 0 PO. AUCKLAND .
1003 <S
NEW
PO. SYDNEY
ZEALAND ‘


' S
°Ai
23
y
N
" My name is Simplicity
“ I am carried everywhere— ,l
“ even up to the clouds by the airmen. For I
am Onoto—the pen that makes writing easy
everywhere."
The Onoto fills itself instantly from any
ink supply and cleans itself in filling. Get
one to-day and save time, trouble and mess.
Onoto Pen
the self filling pen.
14/6 and Upwards of all Stationers, Jewellers
and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to PHOS. DE LA RUE e~' CO., Ltd.,
176, Bunhill Row, London, E.C.; or the A ustralasian
representatives, Norman Baker Sr> Longhurst, 50
Yark Street, Sydney. t
A*k lor ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Why LooK Old?
You need not use hair dye to conceal grey hair
Grey hair adds years to anyone’s appear-
ance. The objections to dyeing the hair are
too numerous and too obvious to mention.
Few people are aware that a simple, old-
fashioned recipe, that can be made up at
home, will quickly turn grey hair back to a
natural color without injuring the hair in
any way. One has only to get two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite from the chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
With a small sponge apply the lotion to the
hair for a few nights and the desired change
will have been neatly accomplished. This
simple formula has given great satisfac-
tion for generations to those in possession of
it. — Advt. [3
Ball Bearings
Radial Types.
lED
13,300 Series
Light Type
1200 Series
Light Type
CMS
2200 Series
Wide Type
1300 Series
Medium Type
2300 Series
Wide Type
■ I
U
ml
400 Series
Heavy Type
1400 Series
Large, Extra Heavy Type
GARDNER, W£RN
& CO.-- I
Melbourne 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane 309 Queen Street.
EXZERMA
CLTR.ES
eczema.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He,
returned to the mission-field quite cured v . - \l]
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Rahdwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
utauknnon
Get the Real
Ru-ber-oid
No other roofing has been imitated as much as ftU‘tßß-010.
You may be told that “all prepared roofings are alike" and
that other roofings are “just the same as HU-ber-OIQ” or “just
as good and much cheaper.” Remember there is only one
Pronounced “RIT as in Rl)BY_
Hy-BER-oD
COSTS MORE-WEARS LONGER
—and that Rtf -BER-OID is always
spelled with one “B.” The genuine
—the kind we sell—has the “Ru-
ber-oid Man” (shown above) on
every roll. If you don’t see the
Ru-ber-oid Man, the roofing is not
Etu-BER-OIQ.
The U. S. Court of Appeals has
enjoined imitators from using the
word “Rubberoid or any similar;,
name as the trade name or brand ”
of their roofing.
RU’BER-OIQ is imitated because
it lasts longer than cheaper roof-
ings. pu -ber-OIQ roofs are still
watertight and look Well after more
than 20 years of service without
repairs. No imitation has this record.
pU-BER-OIQ is made on a base of
the highest grade felt, waterproofed
with a compound that cannot crack,
run, or rot. It contains no coal tar,
asphalt, wood fibre, paper or sand.
Come in and get our prices,
Agents: KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO. LTD., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
3jy§j|gH|
■■
V
Mi
rmrm
: ;
mm
: Y 'v r- " v
rti
o
m
ftV-5
■> n ;
I
a
4 o'C.
$
✓
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFF.RINE is approved bjt
practically every Court Physician in Europe,
‘Phosferine
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABL.ES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
fit Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.'
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D.. C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton I & Parsons LtcL, of London, Would appreciate your courtesy, if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in
refunded to you.
jits place, and the jeost of postage
<?>
17°)
THE most cooling, soothing, quality stockings
you ever wore—“ Jason " White Elite-
all Drapers are selling them.
Buy a pair now, and you will realise how cool
and comfortable Jason are m hot weather
—because of their soft, silky “ finish ” that no other
makes possess. See the “Jason’’ Tab on every pair
—which guarantees that they are British made from
Australasian wool, in perfect taste, scientifically con-
structed and absolutely unshrinkable.
■maarißiaagi
Quality Stockings & Socks for Ladies, Children & Men.
shows the “Jason” Elite Stocking,
a „T , 1 pla,n ,mercerised lisle leg. ankle &
strengthen^' ,n> double top. Specially
trengthened wool foot ; in champagne, black & white.
rapers and Outfitters everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
JASON HOSIERY CO., LEICESTER, ENG.
“Norbell”: I agree with “Middle Bine”
(B. 12/7/T7) that Lizette Parkes is a very
conscientious artist and a reliable “study.”
I have played with her and know. But to
absorb a fresh part every week when playing
weekly changes is nothing out of the way.
I trouped with a dramatic co. in Rockhamp-
ton (Q.) a few years ago, and we put up
two dramas a week, and kept it going for
over four months. We changed the bill on
Wednesdays and Saturdays and perpetrated
anything from “Camille” to “Robbery
Under Arms.” We never missed a night, and
we never —well, hardly ever —needed the
prompter. This is probably an Australian
record for quick studies, but I’d rather go to
work in a cow-cocky’s studio than tackle it
again.
“Melb ”; I’ve been musing on some inci-
dents of Melba’s “discovery”—Marchesi’s
exclamation to her husband, “I’ve found the
star!” This wms after Sullivan and Carl
Rosa had been contemptuous. Strakoscli
heard Melba the pupil sing in an adjoining
room. He started up and exclaimed, “Pretty
or ugly, tall or short, she’s the One!” After
our Nellie’s success in “Rigoletto,” at Brus-
sels, the French opera “Lakrne” was put in
rehearsal. The directors argued that Melba’s
French was not good enough. “Never mind,”
exclaimed Delibes. “I don't care if she sings
in Chinese or even Australianese! Nobody
but Melba!” And she knocked ’em again.
But miserably dull London —well, it doesn’t
matter now.
“C. Ockney”: Ibsen is in the ascendant in
London. The success of “Damaged Goods”
and the licensing for public performance of
“Ghosts” has created something like a boom
in the Norwegian dramatist’s works. Now
“Rosmersholm” has been staged, and is
drawing big business. Soon there will be a
rush to play “The Doll’s House,” “Hedda
Gabler” and “The Wild Duck.” After years
and years of revue Londoners had almost for-
gotten what real plays were like. Now they
.. have got them, and, to their credit, are
showing proper appreciation of the goods.
“Circle”; The pet idea of the Yankee film-
plotter is to have a sweet young thing with her
hair down deserted by the rich man’s son and
left with a child. After a bleak spell of “room-
ing,” or factory toil, she gets into the movies
and (in about 10 minutes) becomes a proud
star in a fur coat. She writes her own
“story,” acts it and then there is a private
screening in a society drawing-room. The
contrite husband, in evening dress, jumps up
and down in his chair and makes American
faces. While the function is on, a discon-
tented “clurk” is burning down his chewing-
gum factory. In the last scene the trium-
phant movie-wife hurries in covered with
furs, ospreys and diamonds, and stamps and
puts her proud chin in the air. Husband
and his aged father grovel at her feet. She
forgives them like a queen. Cheap rubbish
made for the gum-chewing American flapper,
and we pay good Australian money to see it!
“Jacko” (from the place where they
grow) : Beaumont Smith’s film, “The Hay-
seeds,” is having as successful a run in the
country as any other all-Australian produc-
tion, though the exaggeration is silently re-
sented. The general setting is right, but the
family fights and clumsy capers of the prin-
cipals are all wrong. As a typical Hayseed
Duggan wouldn’t earn tuppence, while old
Dad would figure better as a retired Ameri-
can multi-millionaire.
“Unda Studi” : Allen Doone has not been
conscripted in America yet. He opens at the
39th Theatre, New York, in six weeks’ time.
Edna Keeley will still be his “sweetest girl
in all Ireland.” Doone expects liis indispen-
sable Maurice Lynch to join him. as well as
Frank Kenny, his seven years’ treasurer.
But passports—passports!
“Mello D.” : One thing I learned in a brief
expedition into picture playing was that you
mustn’t feel or express feeling. The emo-
tional actress who begins to emote remains
to be a comedienne. If you try to feel your
part the muscles of your face or arm will
stand out like cords, your veins will swell
and your sinews and everything else about
your body which is necessary to the expres-
sion of emotional feeling will bulge abomin-
ably.
“Private Boxer”: Finero turns his hand
to any stage job these days. He reeentlv
completed a wordless play, otherwise a mod-
ern pantomime, in one act. It is “Monica’s
Blue Boy.” and the plot, though not exactlv
concerned with the war. has an echo of the
biggest drama of all in it. The music has
been supplied by the accomplished Frederic
Cowen.
. “Visiting Mummer”: The S. Australian
income-tax people are hot! I played recently
a nme-mghts season in the Holy City T
won't disclose my salafy, but may say it
was large enough for me to be favored with
a long oblong envelope from the Tax Com-
missioners. enclosing enough paper to write
a one-act play on. and requesting me—nav
calling upon me on peril of fines and addi-
tions—to pay the sum of od.
THE SECRET OF SUCCESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I knew the usher well. He seemed
A nice, mild-mannered man;
But one night in the chill d.c.
He spoke in bitter terms to me
Anent the aeting clan.
“My, oath,” he said, “you take my tip,
They fairly give a cove the pip!
“Look at that marionette; he thinks
He’s made this blanky play ;
But, Lord! he cannot act for nuts.
He swanks about and smirks and struts
And kids he earns his pay;
But if the blighter only knew,
This show’s success to me is due 1
“You critics, too, are bluffed. You said
The op’ning act was slow,
But Stormer, in the leading part,
Once more revealed his matchless art,
And made the play a go.
It wasn’t ’im that was the cause,
But me, who started the applause!”
Victoria.
HARRISON O.


ABOVE ALL!
0,
o
1
r
7.
r
r
r
l
f
?SS
(C^A
5 '
IV
ss
X:
a
%
Na
d
o
/4
y
: l
%Ph4Ui:\ ijjil i
#:!#!! (Hi!
57V
>y *, i
ru-
. i
iS3£T-
.. I : ; !
Hi;
ft
Uor*j
tPrHI
tv ;.
7
I '•’ t
hP!
i4=T-t
UOT
UMfl
-V^
r-7 .
I lf! '*'"‘
;•:; M*ii'■ • 1 '■ \• • • *.; *■ ss’--!ii}::ir«*'*
• r 11 “ ''•/'hil'iilp.j! Pii;
111
!!ii!!!!! l , , 1 !i!i;: l ;![i5il;;;
rp!liiS!?IPl^^:!!:i
J -*IVf * ?! i:::! '•
::Lv
' •!' ' \if
11 j I'lVi 11
vv>!
fc'i/
uy.
y
At
5 riu
A Mil. l
r
<y; i )• *
iin‘!
1 1 it i i
H «
2
v,
*M If
: ;p' !l 'll liHiil
: ;ij illi-1.,
! !;!| jl'i: ijjjji jjHijil-'j' 1
;-;i|:;;:i;:!i;;;'i:ij i ;il!
ijl i! | i | j! iii!; ill I j|!! jj j !
i;ii;:jjji!»i!|ijj|!|!ijil, •
\ * !?i!2li* i :j i {! fy : i, •> • li'
\ 1 “ :fi iiiiii u i!'
fftlw
fliS-silii'ii |
.• jU •’'.•! iLtu i ' j.\ j"u* •*
r-'iir ?*v
* II 1-11 I|i i- ;. { lif ~ f
’ }i
■•I ?•“
. .'() >l| 1 «\I 1 |l#l | j>
;•, I:: l> , ■ l! ' 1 1 ■‘• I 1
I 1 1 . . . 11l I , 1
THE SUCCESS OF MEGGITT’S.
Til. rmmons lor 11= unparalleled demand for Meggitt'. Oil mn.t be atlribneed lo the following three
It is the best procurable.
It is made in Australia by Australians.
It costs less.
Keep Your Money in Australia by insisting on Meggitt’s Linseed Oil
1 „ . m Affprits • Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
Fr ° m M.lS’eTwm.Cms & Co., Perth; F.‘W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed « Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD.. Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 K n$ Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.


&
rwncnju
FISHERS
BEAUTY PILLS
are a Natural
Health Giving
aid to either
Man or Woman
These Pills have become very
popular because they are so
good in cases of Unhealthy
colour of the Complexion.
Pimples, Blotches, Biliousness,
Sick-headache, Furred tongue,
Bad breath and Constipation.
Fishers
Beauty Pills
FOR THE LIVER
clear the system of accumulated w; ste
matter, induce the bile to flow fre ;ly
and naturally, and, if the cause is not
repeated permanent relief is obtained.
Remember they do not cause pain or
griping, but act gently and thoroughly
on the bowels and stimulate the Liver.
Just ask for Fishers Liver Pills.
All Chemists and Stores. 1/- per Bottle.
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
[a37 GEORGE 3TREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W F.63.8P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
, , , and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or ivrite for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone 00. Ino. ,45 West 34th St. New York
A Perfect
Custard.
(The NAVY BRAND.)
%
*
K
<5
powder
Lvanilla
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO.,
Pore Food Specialists, SYDNEY.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.,
BRISBANE,
Sole Queensland Agrents.
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
Thi= is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIC\N
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
THEKE is something most satisfactory about
having on the right shoes for the occa-
sion in hand. One feels comfortable,
smart, confident. And for any and every
occasion nothing could be more suitable or more
charming than patent leather, which always
looks well and goes so beautifully- with every
colour and every, fabric. Indeed, this little
shoe here illustrated will add no small share
of smartness arid tone to one’s spring suit or
summer gown. And it is only one style of
many equally desirable, equally charming. For
Bostock shoes, besides being the last word in
smartness, all have a certain individuality which
sets them apart amongst ready-made shoes,
gives them the personal quality and the dis-
tinctive tone of shoes made specially to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6 377
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Sold at all leading stores,
the name “Bostock” on
Look for
the soles.
uncemia
'J'HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia—girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these.symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
. When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome—the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
.. bv blood can be made rich and good
by means o/Iron Jedo.ds, the most effective and desirable treatment "
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Fo rf'lSrh-M Me “ IRON JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
ror Growing Children iron ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
i* , Obtsinsblc st si 1 Chemists, price 1/6 Lsrce size
Manufactured only by The Je L lo,d' Co" 205. City London. England.
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value 4^3,500
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 3. 1917
Ist Prize,value.£ 65 O; 2nd Prize, value .£3OO
3rd Prize, value
CHANCE FOR 1917 TRY IT *-• Valuable Prizes ‘
C. Lougton, Shipley; NS w ,Z f , 3916 WaS w °" by Mrs -
,y ’ iacKn eath, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of
Trades Hall, Sydney.
tickets from
local agent
One Shilling.
ARTHUR W. YAGER,
Secretary.
Aquaperia
(HARROCATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from •• Lancet,” March 20, 1915 :
“The water is drawn from a sprint at
Harrogate. The constituents are “well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” c , -merapeutic
. Sold b y all Chemists.
Distributing Agents:— R. E. JONES &CO
r ,, A ' T ;T J I;LEGR iPH Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Homed b y CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(N on-aperient)
Have 1 permanently cured thousands of cases
or internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
t *'°.v, X.S.W., Sole Propr.
1 Hit E 3/- per Box, or a Course of
3 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
I nrler Plain Cover.
at Leading Druggists, Chemists
ana Storekeepers throughout the. States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. EUab. 1891.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Business Man : We certainly would like a
sworn statement that you have been unable to get
your first payment of 2s. 6d. per bushel... .H.N.:
“Camp” is, in various N. S. Wales and South
Queensland abo. dialects, gonyi, koiyong, kirami and
nurra. “House” is much the same, with the addi-
tions of tura and kokere. But for something extra
for “house,” there’s the Vic. burburnonook or
porpornduk.... 1147 : You don’t make out a case.
You don’t even allege that he is an alien enemy or
attempt to show that his sympathies are anti-Allies.
Can’t attack a Danish-born naturalised Australian
because you don’t like him.-,. .F.W.J. (Eng.): No
interest to Australia.... Miss L. C.: Can’t read it.
Seems to be something about a poor girl who had
a florin stolen by an undertaker. That right ?... .
Boomerang: It can’t be published ; but the Defence
Department should know it. The matter has accord-
ingly been referred.... Corio: “Remorse” has us
beaten. .. .L.R.F.: What on earth do they mean?.
F.A.M.: Poor verse without skill or thought....
M.E.8.: Hardly enough in it. .. .H.A.W. r N 0....
C.F.P.: Must be the “Call” of Sydney suburban
roads to bump and bog in that fashion. .. .11. D.:
Nearly... .M. A.: “Dalliance” is a feeble flutter....
E.M.H.: If it’s a “song of rhyme,” why must it
chatter on like a church hymn, with as few rhymes
as possible ?.... M.P.: A snail went to church, and
you state the fact in three pages of undistinguished
prose.... Tommy: You’re not much at writing; but
you’re a first-rate guesser V.H.8.: An ordinary
four-line verse wants four rhymes. It’s got to be
something extra-special to pass with only tw0....
L.C.T.: Which sands are in the glass ? Did the
surf-board suddenly turn into an egg-boiler ?... .
Zam: No use.... A.J.S.: If the things put in the
pond had been crocodiles, there might have been
joy in it. A gallant knight pulling crocodiles off
his lady’s toes would have appealed to any editor....
R.G.: The “Butcher” moves very heavily... .8.W.:
“Marching Song” wobbles about and gets nowhere.
. ...A.G.J.: Not up... .A.M.S.: Jacob’s wrestling
goes tamely... ,G.H.: Doesn’t make a yarn....Nel
Dereel: Mostly words, and well-worn ones at that....
A.M.S. : No use. ...E.P.: “Clergyman” not our style.
. ...F.J.8.: Not enough in it. ...E.8.: “St. Booze”
is feeble stuff... .S.C.: “Tin Can” doesn’t make
much of a yarn. A good paragraph or two would .
have said all that. .. .F.G.8.: Not quite bad enough
to be quoted for its badness... .A.H.: Beaten
thin... .P.M.P.: No skill... .P.F.M.: Violent verse
about the Kaiser makes a loud noise; but you
want to charge with something besides powder.
We don’t reprint... .W.R.: Sorry stuff....
L.G.: Not quite... .E.C.: Don’t care for the water-
fall... .Nemo: Rather primitive for our anti-shouting
readers.... F.M.: “Five Songs” must go back....
G.T.: “80-peep” has an idea. Work it out better.
E.M.O.S.: Force in them. Try to place them
elsewhere... .A.R.G.: Bright enough, but doesn’t
amount to anything.—K.S.: Limps a little....
P. 0.: No g00d... .Fed-up-a: Can’t find the comedy in
it.... Mothball: Not quite.... Lana: Held for in-
quest .... W.H.: Can’t judge your case from one
statement alone; and can’t imagine what that sort of
verse does to help it... .R.J.M.: Fair verse, with no
particular lift.... Cestus: Pray for a sense of humor.
Pajaud: Nearly... .E.C.: “Archbishop” well written,
but the high note of shock on which it should finish
is turned to a dull f10p.... M.W.: First attempt very
young. Send us your 129th... .G.R.H.: N 0...
1.H.H.: They just miss.. S, A.W.U.: You can take it
in a general way that, with Belfast excluded, Ulster
is no richer than the other provinces. And the aver-
age per head of wealth is less in Belfast than in
some other Irish cities. Ulster could lose no trade
advantage by Home Rule or partial Home Rule
unless beaten in fair competition L.J.V.: Pleas-
ing, but misses. .. .A.B.C. : “Love’s Bridge” won’t
carry... .J.R.K.: The yarn has a better and truer
setting than that Poeticus: A tender fancy. Here’s
some of it: —
I go my country to defend
From savage foes without end,
To Servia brave and Belgium true
We must restore their liberties,
And Kaiser Bill we must defeat
And turn him into sausage-meat.
. ...L.M.: It has some of the elements of poetry,
but is shockingly bad verse... .J.E.J.: No joy in it.
. ...Leostan: The usual dull detective-story common-
places H.T.: Too slight and obvious M.: That
skeleton doesn’t quite work. The surprise doesn’t
surprise... .M.S.: Nobody’s disputing it here. Horse-
sense is the thing most lacking.
A mention in dispatches:—
Please don’t overlook the claims of Miss Hilda
Schaper, of Lubeek (Vie.), when compiling a list of
the Anzac Sisterhood. She has three brothers. Two
are at the 1 ront, and the other would be there too
if he had the arm he lost some years ago. Mother
is a widow and can’t get any help; so the Aus-
tralian girl slogs along behind the plough and rides
on the seat of’ the drill. I don’t know exactly how
many acres she has drilled, but when she has finished
there won’t be any shortage in the acreage. She
feeds, harnesses and beds the horses, looks after
the sheep, milks the cows, gathers the eggs, and,
when all the outside jobs are done, goes inside and
does a bit of housework, sometimes topping off the
day’s performance by writing cheerful letters to the
boj's in France.
O.K. : Talking of Royal Families and
the Quaint rules that keep them holy, one of
the most humorous customs applies to the
dukedoms that are created for the monarch’s
younger sons. The first and second holders
of 'the precious title are Royal Highnesses,
aru l the> rank in the House of Lords as
“Illustrious” dukes. But after the second
t,( netatjon^. the illustriousness evaporates
Iving s great grandson becomes only
his Grace.’ like a mere ordinary duke
whose family pride started in a contractor,.
All of which British-born mummery is as
nothing compared Avith the varieties of rov-
alt.v and serenity in Germany, where the
frightfulness comes from. The odd *hk«A
is that it should have survived in Britain’
the open ridicule which, has ..ao.t yet hern
attempted in the remaining foreign
dominions of crowned Majesty.,.. Why, when
rvnbad s pantomime mother gets wrecked
on the island of Rumtifoo. >hc usually
addresses the reigning sovereign as “Dis-
gustrious Prince, ’ or “Inane Highness,” or
Most Assaulted Disgrace” or whatnot. And
the gallery sees the joke. But perhaps it
thinks that even ; ;a' burlesque.- title is not
more ridiculous than of- the—knight --
hoods in the latest list of Birthday Honors.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
U'-'x.
. i-v--
t * \
:-v sm'% % t; \ \
X \%\ A , .H v.
Vv| | fi \ \i-y-- . '■ \
•7 ft \\ '■■■ \■:■ \ l \
Ra
’ ? i
Rr,
§1
‘**6
•V*
V,
*>Sv ■'
\
It**,
I
%5
P /
\,
-Ryjß
»4
=2
\
lIP
■ i 3 jSa
m
W.U.
m*
vjn
JT'.
i
IVv V U i
a i \fe <
•/ v*s ■
i \ myl
R
ay
Vi
rfJ;
/
svo<?.
v
X 3ft.
tl
-R
i
ffiii
• v-
'ho
m
ivi
r*.
•■' ,' V.V- :-> .
V f/> -V-
-
'.- R-?
#1
ps:
fit
r
V
!»?
a
'■v\-...,
'■ >»
y 0 \a-y/
-fMm
i a
<■' ?
,V
\
■V'
: ; /:a>
V
,4’i-‘
a
few
•-r.r^
>/>
if.m
/ j
W£
m
M
//>
tig
- .
SB®
\
l k
? ,Sp
»
aa
,-:• - S'”
:--aa _
If
Xr'Fv
(tii
■m
7
av.v>*
‘«A'
#-vv
feggr
'
Mi
a-a
a'a
m
wmss
■Six
M
ss
v;^
€i?
RR>A.-.V>
. r.'/•!* 'tvifo
•a
’. '•
X&
/ 0m
// Jsp
:R «i
ysm
m
vmM
it
&s», •2%a.»» a .•^VSiirfWsa
as:
- v3r<*
aft
/
.T\ .-7 tft ,
mmmSAiim
»!''■
a ,a
V
f//.
if
-‘■'a. ■ a ft •7T > .cv' ■
P
ft -
fJrTxHvi
sv;
a&v
m£
aSX
M
WMc
• jj tv J? •*
/y/.rf i-Vr !
;.a -u
lS4*m&k
m
m
m
■ :■■
v u '‘2i
y'M
IM I* / A.V
;*U (,
3E
v r.'
41
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Bombs the skull
Germans too.
D own the shattered
French he runs
Looking 1 for the
Frightened Huns.
o
“Kamerad!” they
Shnllv cry,
J w
Ere the “Cobras
Can let fly.
“Cobra” cl eans them
Oft the slate
With their Friohtfulness
And Hate.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. CaMnes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltrf.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2, 4. 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Heaves Sydney, July 28.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, August 1.
Leaves Sydney, August 4.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, August 8.
Leaves Sydney, August 11.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping fo>
S. A. and W. A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, August 4.
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, Sic.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, lit. (Deputy Chairman) :
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 2.13 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USQAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankets to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1821.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
.Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; Janies Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
llEAI) OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial flanking (Jo.
of Sydney, Limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900.000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900.000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. ~ Chairman
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T F Knox Esa
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A.' Dibbs
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Quo
land. Agencies throughout the World.
ens-
Bank of fleui Zealand.
SYDNEY RRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares.. ..
Ordinary Shares (£1,600,000)
Paid-up ~ ~
Uncalled Capital ..
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529.958
750.000
1,000,000
oOO.OOd
2,246,595
Britain and Ireland
on Australia. New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
at Interest
... . _ fixed periods
transact* all other uiual Banking hminesa.
for
and
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
Shipping <£c
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Ho’'day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers-
SEYEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particular s to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ~ 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,894.980
£2.800 000
£3.894,980
£10.589.960
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MueKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faith full, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund VV. Kosbery, AI.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydnsy. London Office —29 Threadneedle St ,E c
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
L nrsqCLL FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
JBank ot Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
fSrk n u General Banking 1 Business p^nc^i
Citie* and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world,
and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
s' a Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 A eencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Saving's Bank Facilities.
~ J * MKa KKU ° fPUtr ° OrfrPor DENISON MILLER. Gorer.or
FARMERS S SETTLERS’ LOANS
Ihe Commissioners are prepared to receive applications up to £750 on the
following tenures: —
Freeholds; C.P's.; Homestead Grants:
meut Leases; Settlement Purchases;
Leases; Special C.P. Leases; Crown L
Irrigation Farm Leases.
: Homestead Selections; Settle-
C.P. I .eases; Additional C.P.
eases ; Homestead Farm Leases ;
Rate of Interest, per cent.—Loans Repayable In-
Half-Yearly Instalments in 31 Years.
Application forms obtainable at the Head Office
at the offices of Crown Laud Agents.
or any Branch of the Bank and
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CD
(LIMITED). UU '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to
a "d from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to al]
other Queensland
Ports.
PARINGA, Saturday, J u ] y 2g
MORIALTA, Saturday, Aug 4
RUPARA, Saturday, Aug. n
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable aft
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Cornua •
on all services subject to conditions, which eanT
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. Vl'lLt & CO., LTD., *’
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STUEET. SYDNEY
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—c ana d a
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply : — OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282^
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —-12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES * CO. LTD.. Hobart.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
I WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY. COKES
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Comumatiou Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BUIS DANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbali,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY”, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
teamer. £6 Bs. fid. : second-class rail ami steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £95,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK X.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAX, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
tIEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector jot
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howkll.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
is now ob-
tainable at
no cost of
energy ami
very small
one 0 1
money. b. v
using a
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following
" rite or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; R. R. Russaek. Edse-
cliffe. Sydney; Philip Frankel 4
Edward St., Brisbane; Eyes and Crowle
Ltd.. Pirie St.. Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter.
Rnx SOO G.P.0.. Perth. W.A.
JOIN up, young man. and you will help
to bring about a- permanent peace-
out, and the chances are that you will ha ve
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.


w
CHOOSE
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
carefully—it either makes or mars
your appearance.
ABBEY SHOES
are correct in style, perfect in fit
and give the utmost in long service.
We illustrate a Tan Willow Calf
Oxford Shoe, with Perforated
Vamp. A smart, “made-to-order”
style.
Price - 32/6
In half- and full-sizes, and three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
WRITE FOR OCR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (j.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Don't forget to use
it.
SI
to-night—and again
in the morning.
You w ill find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester , England.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOSIT OF
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 O
6 will purchase a Certificate for
6
O
O
O
O
Payable 3 years from date of purchase
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Bunks, State Savings Bank*
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy CeVificates and benefit your country
Commonwealth Bank op Australia thtk March, 1917
m
//111 1119
No. E 6244
"MILLER”
Lighting Fixtures
Manufactured by the famous house
of "Miller” are known and appreci-
ated the World over, they are to
be found in almost every country
throughout the Universe.
A large variety of styles
ELECTRIC,GASandOIL
for all requirements are at
your disposal.
Ascessories of every description. Look
over the "Miller” line it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers-
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
Meriden, Conn. U.S.A.
Keep the
home fires
burning.
4P*
J
, /
*y
>, mm,
i m
i^t#i
?/'■"
w
m
H N m/I Mfm **% 11 f’ u
%Jri imkw MUM %# I MWxi
rfsss/yffifcs/
m
m
0
Gives a lasting
lather and a
smooth shave
Guaranteed
not to dru
on the Pace
From all Chemists & Stores.
Agents :
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
j-jORUCIQ
MALTED
> MILK
MALTED BARLEY—WHEAT & MILK '
Are the constituents of Horlick’s Malted Milk. These nutritive elements help nature
to build up the human frame and bring back health, strength and energy. * er
a cup of Horlick’s, an increase of mental and physical power is at once no icea e.
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Drink.
GET HORLICK'S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.
©
**»r 3
at mu
©I Uai vflfe
UtTt*
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
A DIVERSITY
OF CREATURES
STORIES BY
RUDYARD KIPLING.
Uniform Edition, 6s.
Pocket Edition : Cloth. 4s. 6<l. net.
Leather, ss. net.
Dominions Edition, ss. (id.
THE NEW SYSTEM OF GYNAE-
COLOGY. Edited bv THOMAS
WATTS EDEN. M.D., F.R.C.S.E..
F.K.'C.P.; and CTJTIF B E R T
LOCKYER. M.D., R.S.. F.R.C.S.,
F.R.O.P. In Three Volumes. With
numerous Illustrations in Color and
Black-and-White. £6 6s net.
THE STATESMAN’S YEAR BOOK.
Statistical and Historical Annual of
the States of the World for the Year
1917. Edited bv J. SCOTT Iv EL-
TIE. LL.D. Assisted bv M. EP-
STEIN. M.A., Ph.D. With Maps.
12s. 6d. net.
The Daily Telegraph: “This invaluable
reference h00k.... Public men and everybody
indeed who takes an intelligent interest in
world affairs (and with the war their number
increases from month to month) can less than
ever afford to be without this volume.”
VOL. VIII. JUST PUBLISHED.
A HISTORY OF THE BRITISH
ARMY. By the Hon. J. W. FOR-
TESCUE. Vol. VIII. 11811-IXI2I.
With a separate volume of Maps.
50/- net.
The Scotsman : “The Hon. J. W. Fortesque’s
monumental work... .throughout he continues
to display that scholarly grasp of his subject
which long ago assured for his work the rank
of a military classic.”
The New Pacific: British
Policy and German Aims
By C. BRUNSDON FLETCHER.
With Preface by Viscount Bryce,
0.M., and a Foreword by the Right
Hon. W. M. Hughes, Prime Minister
of Australia. With Portraits and
Map. 7s. fid.
The National News: “This is a work of
substantial merit, falling into a class apart
from the ephemeral literature of the day....
Into its making have gone the and
conclusions of a life’s experience;”
THE LI F E O F ALGE R N O N
CHARLES SWINBURNE. By
EDMUND GOSSE. C.B. With por-
traits and other illustrations. 105.»6d.
net.
The Field: “This wo k ranks among 'the
few speaking biographies of the century, and
is all the rarer just now because of the dearth
of good literary work unconnected with the
war.”
NATIONAL ECONOMY: An Outline
of Public Administration. Bv
HENRY HIGGS, C.B. ss. Gd. net.
THE WAR AGAINST WAR AND
THE E NFOR CEM E N T OF
PEACE. By Professor*CHßlSTEN
COLLIN. Christiania University.
With an Introduction by WILLIAM
ARCHER. 2s. net.
COMPETITION: A Study of Human
Motive. Written for The Col-
I.EGIUM. By JOHN HARVEY. .T.
ST. G. HEATH. MALCOLM SPEN-
CER. Rev. WILLIAM TEMPLE,
and H. G. WOOD. ss. fid. net.
PROVIDENCE AND FAITH. Ex-
tracts from a Diary. Bv WILLIAM
SCOTT PALMER. With an Intro-
ductory Essay bv Rev. CHARLES
H. S. MATTHEWS. Editor of “Faith
or Fear?” 2s. 6d. net.
STELLA BENSON’S NEW STORY.
THIS IS THE END. Bv STELLA
BENSON, Author of “I Pose.” 3s.
Od. net.
(Being No. 658 in Macmillan’s
Empire Library.)
The Daily Telegraph : “It is fresh, spon-
taneous, glittering with jewels of inspired
imagery. The reader is continually arrested
by the apt allusiveness in description, the
touches of descriptive realism, the penetrating
flashes of humor.. ..A remarkable work.”
Complete Catalogues of Maomillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN SCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON VJUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale. .
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 17th July, 1917.
Appointment of Superintending Civil
Engineer—Henderson Naval Base.
A FULLY-QUALIFIED CIVIL ENGI-
-."i- NEER is required for the position of
Superintending Civil Engineer of the exten-
sive works in progress and projected in con-
nection with the Henderson Naval Base.
Cockburn Sound, Western Australia.
The projected works comprise heavy
breakwaters, deep-water quay walls, exten-
sive excavations and reclamations, extensive
dredging and Floating Docks.
Applications are invited from Civil Engi-
neers who have had experience in heavy
Engineering Works and the management and
control of men. Only those who have had
this experience and have held responsible
positions will be considered. Preference will
be given, all other things being equal, to
members of the Institute of Civil Engineers.
The salary will be £750 per annum and a
residence, the salary rising by annual incre-
ments on approved service to £9OO per
annum.
Applications, stating age and giving full
particulars of training and experience and
qualifications, and enclosing copies of testi-
monials, of which not less than two must be
recent, should be addressed to the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne, and
delivered not later than 14tli August, 1917-
Applications to be endorsed, “Applica-
tions for Superintending Civil Engineer.”
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Clutter bucK’s
What it Does.
Reduces Petrol Consumption 10 to 20 per cent.
Adds Power and Speed to the Motor.
Eliminates Carbon Deposits by insuring Complete Combustion.
Makes Motor run cleaner and smoother.
Lengthens the Life of the Motor.
Chitterbuck Bros. Ltd.,
26-38 City Road,
SYDNEY.
a
Manifold
Intake
Connection.
Petrol Saver.
Important Notice.
We invite Gar Owners who have
adjusted their Carburetter to give a
maximum mileage to the gallon while still
retaining the power to come to us* and
by putting on our Petrel Saver we can
still save them a further 10 to 20 per cent.
Sole Agents for Australia
Dash
Board
Control.
IN BANANA LAND
“A.L.” : When Ryan’s Government decided
to open several butcher’s-shops in Brisbane
meat was about as high as when the cow
jumped over the moon. But prices came
down with a run, and meat is now as cheap
in Brisbane as in any capital city in Aus-
tralia, and a lot cheaper than it is in some
of them. Tory politicians and Tory papers
deprecate this “unwarranted interference
with Private Enterprise”—and then send the
missus round to the interference to buy the
family’s fodder.
The Gas Act of 1916 has already borne
fruit. Under it no gas co. may charge more
than, it dll on November 1, 1915, unless
granted permission by the Executive Coun-
cil. The South Brisbane Co. sent a man to
fix up a. shilling-in-the-slot machine, and he
put in new cogwheels which had the effect of
supplying less, gas for the bob. By a bit of
bad luck the chief gas-examiner just then
came along, and as a result the co. was sued
and fined £5 and costs.
A deputation which the other day talked
to Minister for Mines Jones about the South
Ulam marble quarries had weird ideas regard-
ing Australia’s consumption of tombstones.
This country, it was alleged, paid about
£2,000,000 a year to Italy alone for marble.
It hasn’t paid £2,000,000 for marble in all
its life. In fact, since this country became
a Commonwealth it hasn’t paid Italy
£2,000.000 if it put all the bills together—
the bills for olive oil and macaroni, for hats
and matches, for tartaric acid and motor-
cars. The Italian marble trade with Aus-
tralia is worth about £30,000 or £40,000 a
year. Still, figures don’t matter. Australia
ought to use vastly more marble than it
does; and some day it will, and with the
object of finding out what chance Ulam. in
the Rockhampton district, has of supplying
the demand, the Minister has promised to
send up .an expert to make a report.
Queensland Mines Minister Jones has been
inquiring into The Bulletin’s allegation
that Australian manufacturers are seriously
threatened by the shortage of pig-iron; and
it is highly probable that, if the money diffi-
culty can be got over, he will build a fur-
nace. He fin4s that something to produce pig
wouldn’t run into many thousands; and it
would be an excellent foundation for a steel
industry later on. One thing he is in no
doubt about-—the quality of the available
ore.
“Barcoo” : The universally-detested carrion
crow is at last being placed on his rightful
pedestal on Bananaland sheep-runs. On
many stations thb order of the sack is now
handed out to any person killing the bird.
Dead sheep are the depository of millions
of blowfly eggs, and in a very short time the
paunches are a living mass of prospective
sheep-destroyers. But frequently before they
have time to get a move on the raucous
gentleman arrives with some mates for
breakfast, and there is a clean plate when
they take their departure.
“Con Drew” : Randolph Bedford’s remarks
(B. 19/7/’l7) on fishing off Caloundra Head
swing the clock back 30 years or more to the
days when we angled off that same promon-
tory. There was an inexhaustible Supply of
fish there then, but mostly inside the head,
in the bay fronting Landsborough’s land-
grant. Old William Landsborough, the ex-
plorer, has long since gone. His eldest son
Sidney shouldered a gun in the S’African
squabble, and passed out at Bloemfontein.
Dead, at 78, Charles A. Thomas, of Pitts-
worth, one of the earliest settlers on the
Darling Downs. Incidentally, he ran the
first mail coach from Leyburn to Goondi-
windi, from Warwick to Western Creek, and
from Leyburn to Ashford (N.S.W.). That
was well over half a century ago, when the
only track was a string of marked trees,
obligingly blazed by Binghi.
A recent official statement indicates that
the cattle-tick came to Australia from Java
in 1872 and that the Queensland damage
from the pest is estimated at £7,000.000.
This takes no account of tick-fever
mortality. Damage to hides alone in
the Northern State is supposed to run to
about a hundred thousand per annum. Can
nothing be done? The United States claim
to have cleared about 250,000 square miles
of the pest in the last 10 years.
“P.C.deC.”: Recently Cloncurry smelters
were threatened with paralysis through lack
of coke. When Mines Minister Jones tried
to straighten matters out, he found N. S.
Wales colliery-owners had combined to ex-
tort extravagant prices from his State, be-
lieving, some of them, that Bananaland coal
was unsuitable for coke-making. At the
same time, tnese mine-owners were exporting
THE REWARD OF IMPATIENCE.
DE BORE: “I have been horribly insulted. One of the members offered me fifty pounds
to resign my membership of the club! What would you advise me to do?”
DE BEERE : “ Wait a bit. You’ll get a better offer.”
coke to America under special permit from
Prime Minister Hughes, who apparently had
been persuaded that Australian fuel could
be better used in the United States than in
keeping alive an important Commonwealth
interest. Then tests showed Ipswich coke
to be at least equal to the Ma State product;
and arrangements were forthwith made for
the supoly of 50,000 tons per annum for
Cloncurry. But the Shipping Combine re-
fused to carry the stuff, and simultaneously
sprang an extra 2s. 6d. per ton freight on
the coal it had been carrying north for
railway purposes. Jones promptly chartered
the s.s. Allinga, and she is now making two
trips per month. The Railway Department
is being savrnd in coal freight alone at the
rate of £12,750 per annum, employment has
been preserved for some thousands of people
in an inaccessible corner of the continent,
the output of more than a thousand tons
of copper monthly is being maintained for
war purposes, the people of North Queens-
land are being better supplied than formerly
in transport facilities, and particularly in
regard to cargo coming south, and the char-
tering of the ship is likely to return a small
d’rect profit to the State.
Dusk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beside the trees the darkening waters sweep,
But linger lovingly awhile to sing;
The eddies purl an evening litany
To the tall irises, whose blossoms bring
Among the reeds a color melody,
And to the dimming gold of cornfields creep.
Beneath the dreamy sky the iris seems
A mourner, clad in hue of royal woe—
A symbol calm of our deep agony
That yet is purple proud. For those who go
Blaz n the right by their brave destiny.
And nearer bring the harvest of our dreams.
QUEENSLAND.
KATHLEEN ROSE FRANCIS.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 21, 1017.
My Dear Thargomindah.—
Our substitutes for Royalty did a few odd
jobs last week, including time and a halt at
two annual meetings —the Red Cross
Society's and the Lady Bowen Hospital. On
Thursday night his Ex. hoisted Ins swag tor
Rockhampton, Blackall, Alice Downs and
Barcaldine. He expects to do good biz at
the Show at the last-named pitch.
J. D. Connolly, the new Agent-General for
Westralia, is an old Allora boy. He received
a stirring welcome when he looked in a few
days ago on his way to the great target foi
the Hun aircraft. Mother's house is shelter-
ing him at present.
Yesterday was Flag Day. The collection
f or the Red Cross —amounted to over ±o4U
when I last saw the tally.
The juvenile fancy dress ball in aid oi
the War Nurses’ Fund, held last night m
the Centennial Hall, will give a decent lift
to another good cause. Mrs. J. Stodart was
the organiser. •
Father Byrne, who recently was raised to
the dignity' of Monsignor, has been given
charge of the hi? parish of Ipswich: His
friends farewelled him in the Centennial
Hall on Wednesday night, and amongst other
gifts handed him a motor-car—not to speed
him away, but to encourage him to make
Hying trips back.
Mrs. A. A. Doyle, one of our prettiest
matrons, was hostess at a tea at the Cooee
Caf6 on Friday. She proudly received con-
gratulations that her young son, Lieut. Doyle,
with the R.F.A., has been decorated with
the Military Cross. Another of our boys,
Lieut. Ken McSwaine, has gained a like dis-
tinction.
Miss Florence Fuller was “at home” to
art lovers at Montpelier last Monday, and
her display of dainty miniature painting on
ivory was a source of envy and admiration.
I told you about a cat fight at a gathering
of Conscription v. Anti-Conscription females
last week. Well, the other night in the
Assembly the Home Secretary was asked if
he would give instructions that police be
detailed to attend these stadiums with orders
to arrest any real lady guilty of bullocky or
insulting language. The Minister gravely
replied that the matter would have his con-
sideration. So if you get an urgent ware
from me, my dear, you’ll know that I need
bail.
John N. McCallum has got together
new comedy eo. and on August 4 will inn/
duce “The Courtiers” at Cremorne Garden*
The “Turn to the Right” Co. farewelled with
“The New Henrietta.” The opinions on the
latter piece ranged from neutral to lu-ia
hut you’ll see for yourself before long. ‘ ’
The three Cherniavsky boys have been the
attractions of the week. To-night the season
ends at the Exhibition Ilall. The opening
night of the Follies is happening at the
Tivoli, and Wirths’ Circus is brightening
Musgrave Park.
Last Monday afternoon Leon Berliner
tea-ed the Cherniavsky trio at Lennon's
Hotel. The guests enjoyed, as well as any-
thing else, the singing of “The Garden of
Years” by Miss Lena Hammond, words and
music by Berliner. The Russian musicians
said such nice things to the composer that he
flushed a lobster-pink.
Young Eric White, a sunny-hearted lad
of Toowong, killed in France on April 2
was a grandson of the Becketts, of old St
James’s. Melbourne. Grandpa Beckett was
on the staff of the Age ; but he took almost
as much interest as his wife did in St
James’s Girls’ School, of which she was
headmistress. He died in 1872; she, four
years later.
Brig.-General C. J. (“Cam”) Robertson
C. of Toowoomba, has been awarded the
D. ; two sons of Major A. Clowes, 0 f
Warwick —Capts. Cyril and Norman—have
simultaneously scored the M.C. and promo-
tion to major; and Corporal E. V. Welch
late of Paddington (Brisbane), who has seen
service in Rabaul, Gallipoli, Sinai and
France, has been mentioned by Marshal Haig
*r>r distinguished and gallant performances.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Maranoa”: Roma is sometimes satirical
and other times blasphemous when it men-
tions the subdivision of the Government-
purchased cattle-station, Mount Hutton. The
holding consists of some 400 sq. miles of, for
the most part, second-rate cattle country.
On this Minister for Lands Hunter has con-
ceived the idea of settling some 300 families
(presumably returned soldiers), on blocks of
from (540 to 1280 acres, some of the former
being as much as 25 miles from the proposed
railway. Local landholders consider not
less than 1280 acres of the better class of
country necessary as a living area, even if
handy to the proposed line, and from 3000 to
20,000 acres further back, according to the
quality of the country. A returned soldier
in Roma informed me the other day that he
had been allotted 1200 acres of grazing coun-
try (leasehold, of course) some miles out
from town. He expects to borrow “a few
quid” from the Agricultural Bank or the Re-
patriation Fund or something to fence it.
water it. build a house on it and stock itl
About 400 sheep is the carrying capacity of
this particular area in fair seasons, and a
man couldn’t get a meal a day off that num-
ber. It is another hint of the millions we
are going to lose, “a few quid” here and
another “few quid” there, while putting Bill-
jim to tackle a job where a right amount of
success is impossible.


*,£111011033. V s V
. .../I
• : | . . U
i
4* 1U
00(5
i ,
i '?
tw
9
SC
A
MOTOR-CAR is a time saver, a
health giver, a business builder.
By saving time, bv adding health, a motor-
car will increase your vigor, your energy, your
business efficiency.
A motor-car is an economv —anything that
makes better health, greater happiness, bigger
achievements is a real economy.
But you must choose the right car for your
own particular needs.
Studebaker cars are “Owner’s” cars.
They are very accessible, every part is easy to
get at whether it be valves, gears, clutch,
differential or electric system. The complete
instruction-books that go with Studebaker
Cars make them easy to understand and take
care of.
Studebaker Cars are dependable —their
splendid quality insures continuous service.
In ratio to weight and carrying capacitv,
Studebaker Cars are probably the most
powerful cars on the market.
IN ratio to power Studebaker Cars are very
economical in their consumption of gaso-
line, and their light weight and perfect
balance make them unusually economical on
tyres —Studebaker owners frequently get from
8000 to 10,000 miles on a single set of tyres
Mech am cal perfection and studied accessi-
bility reduce adjustment and repair costs to a
minimum.
Studebaker Cars are very easy riding and
comfortable.
The front seats are form fitting and adjust-
able forward and back to all lee lengths.
The cushion work is of the best long curled
hair —mounted on resilient, spiral springs.
Studebaker Cars embody those essentials of
quality that go to make motoring satisfaction.
Studebaker Cars offer this quality at prices
from /, 100 to jQ 2OO less than the prices of
cars in the same class.
!
That is why you owe it to yourself to investi-
gate Studebaker before you buv a car.
i J . j.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
: I ■v.rV.Tv-.r T ’
i ,"rrfw,*"/'
-'ir.'-'-'-r'Vi


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they're full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed :
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Dost,
Small Prlea.
CARTEL
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
and PILLS are the
great English remedy,
within the reach of all,
in all cases of Bad
Legs, Poisoned
Wounds and Hands,
Ulcers, Carbuncles,
Muscular Pains, Bun-
ions, Snake and Insect
Bites, and will save
lancing or cutting.
BAD
LEG
English Prices, 1/5, if- A 5/- per box
Sold by all Stores and Chemists and ■wh.Usatt by
ELLIOTT BROS., AUTHONY HORDERNS’,
W. H. SOUL, MTTINBON & CO.,
AUSTRALIAN DRUC CO.
ALBERT t Co.. 7S, FkmarJra St.Loodoa, E.C. 4
KJ-
r.
WlfrMi i st
£
' V
wr
WAWN’S
Wonder-Wool
STOPS PAIN.
Wawn’s Wonder Wool is a scientifi-
cally-processed form of Cotton Wool,
the fibres of which after being
specially treated are thoroughly im-
pregnated! with unique medicinal
essences whose pain-relieving virtues
and soothing effects are immediately-
felt when applied to all pains caused
by congestion of the blood, such as
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout,
Lumbago, Chilblains, etc.
All nervous ailments like Neuritis,
Neuralgia, Toothache, Headache and
all diseases of the Throat, Chest and
Lungs, including
PNEUMONIA, BRONCHITIS
and COMMON COLDS
are immediately dispelled and ulti-
mately cured by the delightful
warmth and stimulating properties
with which Wawn’s Wonder Wool is
charged.
Place it where the pain is and the
pain stops.
As a means of producing a sensation
of restful comfort Wawn’s Wonder
Wool has no equal.
The secret of Wawn’s Wonder Woo!
is its stimulating action on the blood,
the congestion of which in any one
part causes pain.
Bv quickening the circulation of the
blood (instantly recognised bv the
pleasant tingling sensation it sets up)
Wawn’s Wonder Wool enables the
blood to resume its normal flow—the
congestion disappears and with it
all inflammation and pain.
For Bronchitis, Asthma,
Catarrh, Quinsy, Coughs and
Colds, it is an invaluable
remedy.
Wawn’s Wonder Wool, sold
by all chemists and stores,
2/-; or posted direct from
the proprietor, 2/S.
tIROSAL completely dissolves
Uric Acid, 2/6; or direct from the
proprietor, post free, 2/9,
V. A. WAWN,
Manufacturing Chemist
(Crigor’s Pharmacy),
18t George Street North,
SYDNEY.
z.
FOR CONSTIP
Emoi
srr jgfr ;
'"SS/iSSIS if
m*™ vi ;
srjitrs
“f=
f
Perfectly Beautiful!
But Her Complexion
IF your good looks are suffering
because of a sallow, pallid, blotchy
skin, remember that such a condition
is usually a sympton of a far more seri-
ous internal condition, due to the poisons
of constipation.
Physicians will tell you that a great
many of our common ills, such as
rheumatism, Rigg’s Disease( Pyorrhea)
skin infections, hardening of the arter-
ies, can be traced to the lowering of
the vitality due to constipation.
You should keep yourself and your
family free from constipation by using
Nujol. Nujol is endorsed by leading
physicians the world over as the
rational treatment for constipation.
Unlike physics it is absolutely harm-
less. It acts as an internal lubricant,
is not absorbed by the body, acts
gently without pain or griping.
A bottle of Nujol will save sickness
and doctors’ bills later on.
Ask your chemist for booklet. Sold only in
16 ounce bottles bearing Nujol trademark.
Never in bulk. Avoid substitutes.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(New Jeney)
U. S. A.
Nujol
TOADE MARK
FOR CONSTIPATION
THE. THREE
LINES
are The
FINEST CATCHES
all Ihe year round.
look for Hie name
on
SHIRTS
COLLARSfrPyjAMAS
Made im Australia.
Pelaco Service,
Nothing but the highest-grade fabrics are permitted in the
J"^ E fa . c * ur . e ° f Pelaco B°°ds. Every piece of material
passes the test of a Specialist before it goes to the Pelaco
workroom. The highest-quality standard is thus maintained.
rpHE thing that the people should have
snowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going ft
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL <a CO..
Manufacturing; Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacture^*,Use.
—anu Lorry Farts.
e Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
“Wart”: For some years Launceston was
without even one pawnbroker; and now that
it has two it can’t run a synagogue. There
is a building, certainly, but it is 30 years
since a service was held there, and the trus-
tees are applying to the Court for permission
to sell the property. Ten years ago I tried
to hire it for a boxing carnival, but every
body was shocked at the idea, although I was
willing to open the service each evening by
reading a chapter from the Book of Jeremiah.
“F.N.T.”: The “malicious or criminally
careless” person who scares kids, by an
alleged spider in the cupboard, say, or a
promise of a monster that will creep out of
the dark (B. 5/7/T7), comes in all garbs.
The worst sleep-killing 1 had as a child was
caused by a South Sea Island missionary
who, at a children’s service, told us lots of
painfully interesting, purple-grey things
about Island customs and religious rites,
and gave us an exhibition of idols. While
he was showing us the biggest of these, the
venerable old man (yes, it was the late
Baton) mentioned how sometimes Island
brother was buried alive by his fellow-
countrymen. Gr-r-rrr! It was the first
time I had ever heard of anyone being
treated in this inconsiderate way; and that
night and for many nights afterwards I
absolutely refused to go to sleep in my own
little room for fear of being dragged and
treated to the same indelicate attention.
“Widgee”: Talking about why men enlist.
Bill S , a pal of mine, was a house-
painter. His wife says he went to the war
“to get away from the lead for a while.”
From lan Hamilton’s report on Defence
in Australia:—
The centralisation in the Defence Department at
Melbourne exceeds anything 1 have experienced dur-
ing more than 40 years' service in India, in the
United Kingdom, and in every part of the world
where troops, administered by the British War Office,
are stationed. Petty questions, which in a well-
ordered business would be dealt with locally, are
referred from districts to headquarters.
That is how Hamilton found it; and instead
of improving, the wretched thing has got
worse.
It was “Buck to the Army Again, Ser-
geant,’’ for Charles D. Rolfe at Melbourne
the other day. Born in South Yarra 37
years ago, he butted into the S’African war
under Colonel Tom Price, and with another
Australian, E. E. Hurst, subsequently took
up 25.000 acres in Rhodesia. There they
stayed till Wilhelm fired his mine, where-
upon Hurst went to England, joined the
Horse Guards, and in France gained his
commission and the D.S.O. Rolfe, though
married, offered his services to the S’ African
Expeditionary Force, but was rejected. So
he brought his well-knit frame and his know-
ledge of five languages to Australia, where
the army to which he belongs by birthright
welcomed him.
Back from two years’ service in Mesopo-
tamia, where hearts and bodies have been
broken, Chaplain-Captain O. W. Birch is
having a month’s spell in Melbourne.
Though it was “an awful nightmare” in
1915, organisation and skill have, he says, at
last triumphed. And nobody has triumphed
more than the Australian airmen and wire-
less experts. The latter would halt, unload
their equipment (collapsible mast and all)
from packhorses, and in 15 minutes, their
plant installed, start a “pitch” with a station
100 miles away. Once, getting under shell-
fire, they packed up and were on trek in
three minutes! Birch, who is a Bendigo boy
educated at Caulfield Grammar, was four
years a padre with the Indian army
before the Kaiser began defiling the world’s
altars. He was in the Boer War, wears the
Queen’s Medal with five bars, and, as one of
the 150 Australian soldiers at Edward Til’s
coronation, had the commemorative medal
pinned on his chest by the late royal good
fellow.
For a couple of generations Dr. William
Fortune has been President of All Hal-
lows Foreign Missionary College, near
Dublin, and sending to Australia three-
fourtbs of the priests who have come in
here as “seculars”—that is, not belonging
to any religious order. Ask any young or
middle-aged R.C. priest if he knew Dr.
Fortune of All Hallows. “To be sure. I
did,” he will smile. “Didn’t I ‘read’ under
him at Drmncondra?” Dr. Fortune had a
personal connection with Australia. lie was
appointed Bishop of Sandhurst (Bendigo);
but he' never saw the golden city. The
All Hallows people didn’t want to lose
William, so they petitioned the Pope to
leave him alone—and he was left alone
and died peaceably at Drumcondra. Only
one of the original directors of All Hallows
remains on earth —Dr. Del any, R.C. Arch-
bishop of Hobart.
Philip S. Seager, who has put in 54 years
in the Speck’s public service, and has been
Registrar of the Supreme Court for half a
life-time, retired the other day. He was a
leading light in the body that used to run
the tourist business in Hobart before the
Government took the job on.
Adelaide sees before it an engineering
problem. Its River Torrens has no mouth.
When it gets near the sea, six miles away,
it is blocked by high sandhills, spreads into
reed-beds, and works away gradually to the
Port River northward and the Patawa-
longa southward. The town of Henley
Beach has established itself on those sand-
hills, and is fast spreading over them. With
wet winters like this and the last, the new
houses are getting flooded ; and the crowded
trams are carried over ground by a viaduct
which was nearly covered last week. To
make a definite mouth for the river must
always have been difficult, and is now prac-
tically impossible, so all that can be done is
to drain the reed-beds scientifically into the
two above-named outlets.
“Dimitri Pushoff”: The doings of the
Spanish Censor (B. 5/7/T7) recall the
efforts of his Russian brother just before the
revolution. One day in the Duma the racket
was like that at a meat auction in Berlin.
On the following day the Vecheknie Vremya
reported the disturbance in nearly four
columns headed “Echoes of the Duma.” Only
one deafening statement had dodged the cen-
sor, and it stood in lonely magnificence in
the fourth column: “One of the speakers
declaimed some verses of Pushkin about
running streams.”


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt cf price by
SUNSET DRUG CO..
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
<■2 >
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
AVON
/V TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money
Edison
Phonographs
A beautiful instrument.
s
The Edison “Tri-
umph'’ Phonograph
illustrated is a
splendid inetru-
men t—o n e that
you would value in
vour home to en-
tertain you, your
family and your
friends in the quiet
evening hours.
The “Triumph’’—
like all Edison in-
struments - plays
most charming
music—both vocal
and instrumental.
It is excellent
value. With hand-
some Music Master
Wood Horn, price
£lB/10/-; or
with Metal Cygnet Horn, price £l5.
Have the nearest Edison dealer demonstrate
this instrument, or catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
IF anybody charges you more lhan 6d. for
a single copy of. The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year,'
/
n
IS
ffi
r fs
1
'■M
wg
rw
-te
3$
f
?
i L
&
r
N
/^nv
x
g?
£>2
ri2
S 3
g
ritt
<2
C-
(C
vS
/
9
N 9 ;
£7
CMAnaCP^LAIK
Eddie had an awful hacking cough and each attack of
coughing would almost tear him to pieces. It made his head ache and his throat sore and
inflamed until he could not sleep at night. In fact he was so ill that they sent him home from
boarding school. But once again Granny Chamberlain and
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
came to my rescue. I gave him a dose
regularly every few hours and it soon sooth-
ed and healed the inflamed air passages,
stopped the tickling in the throat and by its
tonic effect threw off the disease.
After this experience I believe more firmly
than ever that Chamberlain s Cough Remedy
is the best and most reliable preparation ever
produced for coughs, colds and influenza.
To keep the cough loose and expectoration
easy is half the battle with a hacking cough,
and there is nothing to equal Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy for this.
** Noth be sure
you get
Chamberlain' s”
(Picl fkctfCefc
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets are a new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Liver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
TRIED AND TRUSTED.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE "PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
15he
“Fx & R”
WATCHES
Are the most extraordinary Watches of the age.
They are f-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balance.
They are speciallv made to stand ROUGH RIDING
and KNOCKING ABOUT.
They go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
free of charge (breakages excepted) for two
. years.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd..
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
Gent.’s Full-sized, Open-faced Oxidised Steel
Fx & R Lexer Watch, with 15 Jewels,
35/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
This Task Need Not
Be Disagreeable
Shake a little Sani-Flush in-
to the bowl every few days.
It will keep it spotless, white
and free from odor. No dip-
ping —no scrubbing. Not a
general cleanser made for
cleaning toilet bowls only.
Sani-Flush
Ask Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush
or can get it quickly; or write
us a card giving your dealer’s
name and
we will
have you
supplied.
Sani-Flush
should be
used wher-
ever there are
toilet bowls in
residences
and all other
buildings.
Does notin-
jureplurtibirig
connections
Th* trap
Soni-F)usft
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt St,
Sydney, N. S. W.
■ Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Amort's Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE, CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
J 2909. —Garnet,
Peridot and
Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold Pendant,
Price 21 /-
LATEST
CATA LOGI E
POST EItEE.
C6i!9o. —Fine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl
Set 15et. Gold Brooch.
Charming Gifts
in Gem Jewellery
At Stewart Dawson’s.
The name of Stewart Dawson is a guarantee of
reliability in all that pertains to Gem Jewellery,
and our prices show a SUBSTANTIAL SAVING
by comparison.
*
s
C 5390- -HIGH-GRADE K EYLESS LEVER
WATCH, Fully Jewelled, with Patent Expanding'
Bracelet. Price, 9ct. Gold, £7/7/-
15ct. Gold, £lO/10/-
STEWART
DAWSONS,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
P 2087.—Tur-
quoise and Pearl
or Pink Tourma-
line and Pearl
Set 9ct. Gold
Pendant. Price
357-
LA TEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
rrr>i /fir
067 4 9.—Fine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl Set
15it. Gold Brooch.
Price, £5/5/-
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science lias taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,'Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Complete lists, instru-
ment catalogue and
name of nearest accred-
ited dealer on request.
EISDELL, the tenor,
in his best records!
“IJis Master's Voice” Records, of course
—-but the big Eisdell triumphs are now
DOUBLE-SIDED records (10-inch, 3/6).
and are thus 100% bigger value than
ever.
These soulful song-successes are culled
from the new August list of “His Master’s
Voice” records, now ready at all dealers.
10-inch Double-sided, 3 6
i? 734
| Blue Eyes I Love Clarke
Dream o’ Nights—“ The Mill
l of Dreams’’ Eric Coates
8743
rTliank God for a Garden
Teresa del Regio
| The Hoad to Rove
l Kitty Parker
12-inch Double-sided Record, 5 6
C 740
Land of Delight W. Sanderson
Love’s Garden of Roses
Haydn Wood
C 742
f Parted Tosti
Speak (with violin and piano)
l Tosti
GRAMOPHONE”
RECORDS
for AUGUST
NOW ON SALE.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
H
i n
\ht%Y
,f/'C
sHie Modern,
\ .22 Cal.
Rifle
A modern .22 caliber
repeating rifle mint
combine accuracy
with convenience and
safety. The Remington
UMC Repeater has a solid
breech, is hammerless, easily
taken apart and shoots with unfailing
accuracy. Examine one at your dealer's or
send for descriptive catalogue free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO.
D. D. BRYANT, Mano<er
Box 686, Melbourne
Renting
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
Highest, grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. J- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
m
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter,
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter arid Electric Lights, 4-Cyele,
4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
s\
1
As
Dainty
as it is
Effective.
Many dentifrices are over-medi-
cated ; others leave a stinging
feeling in the month, and yet others are
oleasant—but useless.
<
THE OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER,
appeals because of its delightfully refreshing
effect. Immediately Calox is moistened by
contact with the teeth, oxygen is released.
This powerful force goes on “Active Service,”
penetrates into every crevice, and destroys all
germs and bacteria. The oxygen removes the
primary cause of decay. It sweetens and
purifies the recesses and cleans and whitens
the teeth. Calox is also an ideal mouth
wash.
Try CALOX Free
ai raouiu
. J
Let the big, free sample we
offer you support our claims
for Calox. Attach your name
and address to this advt.,
mail to Calox Dept., Geo.
Wills and Co., 480 Collins-
Street, Melbourne, enclosing
two penny stamps for postage.
Calox is procurable from
ALL CHEMISTS AND
k LEADING STORES.
X, F. 26/7/’l7.
fag!]
*2
1
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDEP
*KE33ONIROBBI»
Vaseline
Trad* Mark Registered
Borated
Petroleum Jelly
Reduces irritations of throat and
nose membranes and greatly
hastens recovery from colds.
Put up in handy tin tubes. For
•ale at all chemists and general
•tores. Refuse substitutes.
rO
Chesebrough Manufacturing
1? S*ate Street I NVtw* 1 York > V. S. A.
Montreal
UO
London
Moscow


Keep Your Skin
Soft and Clear
Cuticura Soap to
cleanse and purify,
and Cuticura Oint-
ment to soothe and
heal, clear the skin of
pimples, blackheads,
itchings and ir-
ritations and
the scalp of
[dandruff
(Sample Each
Free by Post
Address post-card:
“R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold throughout
the world.
•fisr'
M
Iflißot Bafbs
Mcina Soap
CHRISTIES
special/^
TWO
L/NES
KIRT s
s
0
WPiTE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
ZC 3 T NEWCASTLE
5;
i
B •
> I
9M
• i
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
iELEY,
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
m
p
2%
'ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
1| oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
ELEY
E.B. 'Nitro'
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L l 3 LONDON
Hints
m
5--
THE SECRET OF A
GOOD COMPLEXION.
By MME. ST. CLAIRE.
Any woman nowadays may quickly reju-
venate her complexion'at home by a safe and
painless process of gentle absorption. The
days of expensive and dangerous “operations”
are past, and each woman can be her own
beauty doctor. It has been discovered that
ordinary mercolised wax, applied like cold
cream, at night, will cause- the thin veil of
lifeless, sallow or blotchy cuticle to gradually
and gently flake off in invisible, flour-like
particles, revealing the fresh, vigorous and
beautiful young skin underneath. Mercolised
wax absorbs only the unhealthy and un-
sightly outer fi’m, and does not affect the
healthy tissue at all.
The process defies detection, and unveils
a lasting and beautiful complexion, which is,
of course, a perfectly natural one. For this
purpose thousands of women are now using
mercolised. wax, which may be obtained at
any chemist’s. Naturally the process also
removes all such surface blemishes as
freckles, blotches, pimples, tan, liver spots,
etc. It makes the face look years younger
and prettier, and renders the use of face
creams unnecessary.
* * * *
Another valuable piece of information,
which many women will appreciate, concerns
the success of the new treatment for super-
fluous hair. A remedy for permanently erad-
icating this ugly form of'facial disfigurement
now T seems to have been found. It is simpli-
city itself. About one ounce of ordinary pure
powdered pheminol, which can be obtained
at any chemist’s, is all that is needed to put
one in the way of completely ridding oneself
of superfluous hair. When applied to the
obnoxious growth this causes it to immedi-
ately disappear, and the continuance of the
recommended treatment is said to finally
destroy the hair roots, so that there will be
no renewal of the growth. [5
*
urn
SCIENCE & EXPERIENCE
must precede progress to attain per-
manent success. The scientific and
experimental work undertaken by the
SUNBEAM
Company has been continuous and is reflected
in the present productions, and also in the
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
which has earned for it the title
Supreme on land and in the air.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London. England
WORKS .... . Wolverhampton, England
,-C'ON
IHE
AL
-■o
K
a
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £650,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Sir JOHN GRICE, Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales,
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
The Inky Way.
“Chin-chin” : So “Den” is marriecj. Well,
the Sentimental Bloke prophesied it when he
observed “The commin end of most of us is
‘tart’!” A dark, clever, handsome girl is his
Doreen. Meanwhile the book output is not
neglected. “The Glugs of Gosh” have passed
the 24,000 mark, and of the Christmas book.
“Doreen,” over 20,000 copies have been
ordered. The illustrations are by Hal Gye,
who has done them well. “Den” pointed out
to him as a model a sweet little girl in a
Swanston-street shop, and Hal memorised
her—for it was not possible, since she and
they were “not intrajuiced,” to employ her
on the usual basis. So, unknown to her, Hal
stole the beauty of her look, and some day
she may find herself famous.
* * * *
Leon Gellert, of S. Aus., whose short
realistic pieces, written on Gallipoli and in
hospital, are the first effort to win the
Bundey prize at Adelaide University, is
having an enlarged edition of his “Songs of
a Campaign” brought out by Angus and
Robertson.
Queensland police have just started a
Journal, said to be the only trades-union
paper for policemen on earth. Its motto is
“Unity is Strength,” and it illustrates the
remark by showing a bundle of batons.
# » # •#
The very resourceful W. K. Harris, who
once upon a time went touring the back-
blocks of this country in The Bulletin’s
interest, and wrote a book about a trip he
had from Newcastle to Adelaide, has won a
bar to his Military Cross. As a change from
overlanding, he is in the navy these days.
Adelaide Herald has had to stand an
unusual libel-action. It printed a spirited
account of fin election meeting, with details
of the excited behavior of a lady whose name
was given. As a matter of fact, she was
named from the platform by the elected
member, who was returning thanks. She
claimed £lOO damages for having disorderly
conduct attributed to her, but after a long
hearing Judge Buchanan found that the
Herald’s report, though it “might appear a
little colored,” was “fair and accurate.”
Judgment for the paper with costs.
Leonard Matters, of an Adelaide family
which produced a well-known suffragette,
has had a send-off and presentation at
Buenos Ayres, where he was editor of the
Herald. 111-health sends him and his wife
—who is literary too —back to Australia.
Blackburn, M.L.A., a long time ago gave
the Argus a chance to be humorously
didactical at his expense. It was on a
question of pure English. Blackburn had
declared his belief that “even a German
conquest of Australia would leave it hardly
—if at all—-worsened.” Often Grandmamma
has giggled at this word “worsened,” and at
last its author could bear it no longer. “You
deride my ‘peculiar English,’ ” he wrote
passionately to Grandmamma. “The word
‘worsen’ has, it seems, no place in the
vocabulary of the journalist. It is none
the worse for that. Approved by Milton,
Johnson, de Quincey, Southey, Carlyle and
Stevenson, this vigorous and simple English
word need not fear the journalist’s frown.”
As far as The Bulletin is concerned
Blackburn may say worsen so long as he
doesn’t do it in advocating principles which
may compel this country to also say Hoch !
* • * •
The genius at the other end of the morn-
ing papers’ cable service has taken to send-
ing messages anent new war poems. The
main “points” are set forth as though it
were a Royal Commission’s report.
F’rinstance, the Argus the other day:—
The Morning Post publishes a poem in which Mr.
Rudyard Kipling bitingly denounces the Mesopotamia
horrors. He says that the dead heroes cannot return,
and asks whether the slothful politicians and admini-
strators will be allowed to slide softly back into
power by the favor and connivance of their kind.
If it had only occurred to the cable people
to send a message when “Poems and Bal-
lads” was published we might have got some-
thing like this: —
Mr. A. Swinburne has published a poem warmly
eulogising Dolores (?). He asks that she should
touch his roses and make them redder. He also
states that while the priests gave seven sorrows to
their virgin, the sins of Dolores total 490.
The Argus would probably have added a
footnote saying that, as a search of “Who’s
Who” and the “Statesman’s Year Book” had
failed to reveal any mention of Dolores, it
was not unlikely that the name had been
mutilated in transmission.
WHY DO YE SING?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why do ye sing of raven locks
And lips of rosy red
When every clay the fields are strewn
With piles of noble dead,
And ev’ry night is dropping tears
Upon their hero bed?
There is a dawn for dalliance set,
There is an hour for joy;
But now we call for noble souls
That seek a high employ.
This is a day for bitten lips
That will not kiss and toy.
It irks me in these deathful days
To hear the laughing lyre,
When Honor cries for bloody bays
And breasts of noble ire
And souls that fling on dauntless wing
Across the gulfs of fire.
It may be Phyllis sings as sweet
As in the days of old;
It may be that her tresses meet
In many a twine of gold ;
I only know that bugles blow
And gallant hearts are cold.
Why do ye sing of raven locks
And lips of rosy red,
When ev’ry day the fields are strewn
With piles of noble dead,
And ev’ry night is dropping tears
Upon their hero bed?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Keep Your
Furniture
Looking
“ Just Like
New ”
Has the Changing Weather Given a Bluish, Cloudy Appear-
ance to Your Gramophone and Mahogany Furniture?
If so, you will be surprised how easily, quickly
and permanently it can be removed with
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
JOHNSON’S PREPARED WAX imparts
a soft, artistic, lustrous polish of great
beauty and durability.
It gives a perfectly hard, dry, glasslike polish
which never becomes soft nor sticky in the
hottest weather or from the heat of the body.
Consequently it does not gather dust or show
finger prints.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for keeping
dining room tables bright and tempting. Hot dishes
have no effect whatever on it.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared
Wax. Keep a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos. Piano Woodwork
Floors Furniture Motor Car
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is sold by all good dealers. It
may also be had by posting us the coupon below.
Use this Coupon for Trial Tin ■■
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of i -i
Johnson’s Prepared Wax— *■- ■ *
sufficient for a good test. Also send book
on Home Beautifying, free and postpaid.
Name .
Addre55 .........
/ usually buy from
Fill Oat this Coupon ur Post to
S. C. JOHNSON SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
mr
1
35
j,
THE BEST
SMOKE
is
YELLOW
ASTER
H” _ TOBACCO
mHE thing that the people should have
1 been allowed to realise from the outset
ia that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. 4 re you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
o
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing.
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LBXeJ
British Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8X.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof, ~
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7£lb 1* reight paid,
Send for our new edition
(B 1) Firearms and Sport-
ing Catalogue. Post Free.
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel barrels,
Greener cross-bolt, both choke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
half-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from 711 b. to 741 b. Freight paid,
WE REPAIR. GUNS and RIFLES.
“SWEET CROP”
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 5/-, post
free.
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.Jj. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal- X?CI
nut stock; weight about 71b Freight paid, )
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels.... Freight paid, £9/5/-
Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
-•
820. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
7Jlb.; of 16-gauge, about 6slb Freight paid,
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30in. barrels, 7/6
£6
extra.
“SURE CATCH’’ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
836. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right, modified, left, full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for mtro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7i to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7} to 74 lb
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/7/6
SPORTING REPAIR 3
A SPECIALTY.
36
m
—'’V
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun
extension rib, rebounding locks left
walnut stock; weight, about 71b
12- or 16-gauge, top lever,
choke, snap fore-end, pistol
Postage on one Gun—2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2' Inter-State.
30in.
grip,
steel barrels,
45/-
Harrington ana
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action,
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. ' Gu Ca be taken apart, same as
bi-Non-Ejector, 25/-;
8 2-Auto-Ejector, 27|6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.;
4/S Inter-State.
IC.
tinmans M
I
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS •
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
11D King St also at
flencastle l Brisbane


&
A
■V. VfL>BiKftr >
/w«
tts
H)
k
Mrs. J. M. Gregg’s Twins, who were
cured of Bronchitis by
Dr. Sheldon’s Hew Discovery
“My twins, a boy and a girl, were very bad with severe colds and bronchitis for
months,” writes Mrs. J. M. Gregg, 12 Bradshaw Street, Caversham, Soiuth Dunedin,
N.Z. “Their coughing was terrible to hear, and caused them to go blacTs in the face,
and, after one of these bouts they would be quite exhausted for some time. Their
little chests and throats were very sore. They were under medical treatment, but
with no beneficial results, and we tried every known remedy without any real benefits.
I was worried very much over them, but one day I took up a paper and saw Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery advertised, and am very pleased, for it has proved a great
blessing. I procured a bottle, and after using very little I saw a great change in
them, and by the time the second bottle was finished they were in good health and
completely cured, thanks to that wonderful medicine, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
I would strongly recommend all mothers and those having the care of children to
always keep a bottle in the house, as I intend to do myself, and I wish Dr. Sheldon's
New Discovery every success.”
What Do You Give Baby for His Cold ?
Foolish mothers dose their babies with home-made concoctions, and perhaps upset the little
stomach and make the baby cross and uncomfortable by this mistaken economy. Wise
mothers do not experiment with untried nostrums, but depend on a remedy which has been
compiled from the scientific prescription of a famous physician, and is designed to cure the
cold without upsetting the digestive organs. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is this Remedy, and
mothers may give it to their babies, secure in the knowledge that coughs and colds will no
longer rack the little bodies. For croup, it has the most wonderful results. Whooping Cough
is cut short by the use of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. For all the family ills resulting from
throat, chest or lung complaint the mother’s resource is Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Dr. Sheldon’s New’ Discovery is the quickest, safest and best-known
Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Pleurisy, Bronchitis and all Throat and Chest
Troubles, and can alw’ays be relied upon. Obtainable at all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 1/6 and 3/- a bottle.
D? Sheldons
NewDiscoveih
mss
AND
OLDS
m
“We’ll Have a
Little Party/'
wrote May to her friend Midge. “With Cis and good old
Dummy, we’ll play a hand at Bridge.”
They met and played a rubber, as May had planned they
should. Then o’er the cups they gossiped, that sporty
sisterhood.
Now May knew how to cater, as everyone agrees—Cakes,
Scones and Bread and Butter, the last with
REX BRAND CHEESE
And if you’d prove a winner with your Informal Teas, you’ll
surely score the “Honors” by serving this good cheese.
Its long suit is its flavor, for months it has matured; you buy
it from your dealer. These facts are all assured.
"REX” CAMP PIE
is another treat. Serve it with
Salad or slice thin for Sandwiches.
Fogg'itt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex** Hams and Bacon;
PacKers of “Rex** Pure Food Prodtidts-
South of Gaza.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FARED we afield in the gathering dusk
from the lines in the rail-head camp,
And we dimly heard through the dust
we stirred a battalion out on tramp.
The big guns cooled in the Turkish lines
’mid the green hills hidden away,
While the steadfast course of the Anzac
Horse was east till the dawn of day !
The limbers swung through the smoke that
hung on the worn, shell-crippled track,
And a smothering pall of darkness fell that
gripped the earth in a sombre spell,
Till the sleepy west bade night farewell as
the coals of day burned black.
Over the unfenced barleyfields we rode
through the hoof-woke night.
The mist rose high till the star-gemmed sky
was veiled in a film of white.
The mist fell low till it blurred the grass
and scumbled about our course,
And the squadrons streamed till the riders
seemed mute ghosts of a phantom force.
We rode till the grey of a dawning day
awakened the drowsy earth ;
Till the snarling, hot-lipped guns behind
made haste in the waxing light to find
The range of enemy humankind with thun-
dering gusts of mirth.
Up from a deep-worn watercourse we climbed
to a rolling lea,
While the mounts remained in the dip, close-
reined each one to its “number three.’’
We swept through the waist-high barley-
grass that waved in the breeze of morn,
While the larks on high carolled down the
sky and the quail whirred up from the
corn.
The rustle of feet in the bearded wheat
spread out w T here the rifles trailed.
A squadron of taubes was on the wing: ere
the Turkish lead began to sing
The big guns smothered the voice of spring
and the screaming shells assailed.
Down we crouched in the shivering grass
while the quaking hills ahead
Were battered ablaze till a blood-red haze
crept up like a pall of dread.
Our guns waxed loud and fierce behind to
hammer us out a track,
To double the chance of a swift advance for
the ghastly trench attack.
Over the dim far ridge’s rim the sun swung
aloft through smoke
That dimmed the vision of anxious eyes, till
... of the grass were seen to rise
Brown men in a trice of dumb surprise when
the Turkish batt’ries spoke.
Never before those ancient hills were rent in
a storm so loud,
So splattered with lead by cordite sped nor
wrapped in a battle-shroud.
To left and right as far as the eye could see
on the hazy flanks,
The shrapnel broke in a swirl of smoke on
the forward surging ranks.
We forged ahead where the poppies red
resembled the wasting blood
Of men who staggered and pitched and lay
to rise no more and view the array
Of mates who passed through the' dust away
in a panting human flood.
Down on the lead-whipped ground again we
fell for the want of breath ;
While the far-flung ranks whistled in their
flanks we witnessed a feast of death.
A thing crawled over the hill and climbed
through a tangled mass of wire—
A “tank” with a stream of smoke abeam and
its chattering front afire.
It lumbered along through a startled throng
and sickled them down like wheat,
And the Turkish shells rained back to break
the lines that came in its deadly wake,
Till the torn earth seemed to cringe and
quake beneath their tottering feet.
Out on the flank a tide of life lept up from
the earth once more.
'Twas a grim sight then, and Royston’s men
swept wide like a wave on shore.
The white steel flashed when the blades came
out, and the troops streamed over the
rise,
Till the rearmost man w T as lost to sight of
the watching bloodshot eyes.
Out of the vale in a shrapnel gale the led
mounts moved in the rear.
The whole line surged and straggled and
flowed downhill to the old Beersheeba
road
Where each fell under his final load who
failed to emerge all clear.
We clung to the hard-won hills that day till
the drooping sun waxed pale.
We’d pressed the attack tilll the Turks hung
back sore rent from the blown-out gale.
Only the snipers’ farewell shots were echo-
ing sharply then,
And the west was bright with relief in sight
for the watching, worn-out men.
We marched away at the close of day to
mount in the dying light:
We rode aflank through the tense, grey
gloom with plenty of sad, spare saddle-
room—-
The swift hoofs sounded a roll of doom to
the Turkish arms that night!
PALESTINE.
GERARDY.
The Automatic Barmaid.
[FOR TEH BULLETIN.]
RILEY, of the Harp of Erin, shoved the
last of his lingering customers out
as the Post Office clock was striking
six, and closed and bolted his moral bar door.
•‘To the divil with their Early Closing!”
muttered the old publican. “There won’t
be a living for a man in this trade if they
keep on the way they’re doin’!”
“Are they all out, Michael?”
Riley turned and nodded sadly at his grey
old wife. “They are! A year ago they’d
just be cornin’ in: but these are war times
an’ taxation’s heavy, and a man has to
turn trade away from his door. There’s
nothin’ in it any more, Kate.”
Mrs. Riley sighed and wiped her hands
on her apron. “I’m sure I don’t know what
they’ll be wantin’ next! Min used not to be
afraid of drink.”
“Ah, it’s not th’ min that’s afraid. It’s
th’ dirty wowsers that never takes a drink
that’s afraid.”
“Well, whichever way it is, they’ve shut
us up and we’ve got to make th’ best of it.
I’ve had a hard day, Michael—that back
bar’s a man’s job.”
“Well, please God, you won’t have to do
it again. Is that felly goin’ t’ work soon,
d’ye know?”
“He’s at it now, puttin’ down th’ rails for
it to run on. Ye’d better go down now and
see his min aren’t takin’ anything. There’s a
lot of things they might help themselves to
and you not be any the wiser. Go along
now and see they’re not helpin’ themselves
to your cigars.”
Mrs. Riley turned and toiled wearily up-
stairs while fat Riley bustled out to the
closed back bar. Behind the counter a dusty
young man, with his coat off and a folded
footrule protruding from his hip-pocket, was
directing the laying of what looked like* a
miniature railway track. Two younger assist-
ants were doing the work.
“How are ye gettin’ on?” queried the boss,
looking over the counter.
“All right, Mr. Riley. We’ll have her
mounted on the rails presently, and, as soon
as we have her wired we’ll be able to give
you a trial. Looks all right, doesn’t she?
The two men stepped down to the end of
the bar, where a sort of super-waxwork lady,
very stylishly dressed and full in the bust,
stared and waited to be set to work.
“She’s a fine-lookin’ lump of a girl,” mur-
mured Riley; “but I don't see why I should
buy her rale jool’ry—she’s not human and
full of vanity like flesh an’ blood.”
“Now, that’s where you make a mistake,
sir. You want her to look like a real
woman, an’ jewellery is part of her make-
up. You never saw a barmaid without jew-
ellery, did you?”
“Never.”
“Just so. Well, if you want her to look
like the real thing, put a tenner’s worth of
stuff on her. She won’t run away with it,
you know.”
“True for you, and I suppose she’ll have
to have it. That’ll make £7O for her com-
plete, an’ I only hope she doesn’t strike.”
“She won’t strike. You come down in an
hour’s time and I’ll have her all ready for a
trial.” / ,
“I’ll go and get my tea, then,” said the
publican, and left them to their work.
“Have they got that machine fixed yet?”
asked Mrs. Riley fretfully when he got up-
stairs. Being an old-timer, modern restric-
tions and innovations of the trade worried
her.
“In an hour’s time. An’ ye must get out
of the way of callin’ her ‘the machine.’ Sure.
I told ye before we must keep up th’ fiction
that Gwennie is a rale live girl. Min don’t
like to be waited on by machinery.”
Mrs. Riley laughed scornfully. “If th’
min can’t tell that thing isn’t a rale woman
they’ve altered since my day.”
“Never mind about that. What I say is
we’ve got to do our best and not be tellin’
every Tom, Dick an’ Harry that comes near
th’ place.”
“Well. I’ll tell y’ this, Riley: I’ll not call
her by any name -when there’s nobody by to
hear me. After all th’ years we’ve been in
this house an’ th’ fine-lookin' girls we’ve had,
to come down to a dirty sham like that, with
her inside full of springs an’ cog-wheels, an’
for all that wearin’ a low-necked blouse as
any girl would be proud to own—seems like
idolatry, so it does.”
“I don’t like it meself, Kate. But what
with wages goin’ up an’ profits cornin’ down.
I’ve got to take the cheapest way out, an’
that’s it. Maybe we’ll get used to it as we
did to th’ cash register.”
The Rileys had their evening meal in sad
silence, and were deep in dreams of gayer
days when there was a tap at the door.
“We’re ready for you now, Mr. Riley,” said
the inventor.
“Right you are! Come along, Kate, an’
let’s see this girl work.”
The party proceeded downstairs to the
back bar and found the new barmaid stand-
ing ready behind the counter. The inventor
expounded proudly: “Now you see her wait-
ing for a customer. As he steps on the door-
plate here, she glides forward a little as if
eager to take his order. As he pronounces it
the sound-waves strike a sensitive receiver
concealed in her ear—the left one here, near-
est the door. This is passed on. by our
patent device and she moves her right arm
towards the bottle required and her left to-
wards the clean glasses. Of course, as I
have already explained, the bottles and
glasses have to be arranged always in the
same way. We guarantee”
“Let's see her work !” interrupted Riley.
“Very good, sir. Now please watch me
closely.” The installer passed out through
the swing doors and immediately returned,
being very careful to press heavily on the
broad door-plate. The barmaid moved for-
ward smoothly like a lift and the installer
leant on the counter. “Sni-per’s whi-sky and
wa-ter !” he enunciated very distinctly. The
barmaid glided back, made the proper passes
with her arms and delivered the goods.
“Love-ly da-ay!” she sighed as she put the
whisky down, and Mrs. Riley gave a slight
jump of surprise. The money was taken up
with a sweeping action, registered, and the
change delivered while the installer was
drinking his whisky and pretending not to
notice the excitement of the Rileys. As he
set his empty glass down and moved away
towards the door, Gwennie glided forward
to retrieve the glass and clean it. “Good-
bye !” she sighed in farewell. Then she
picked up the glass, rinsed and wiped it and
glided back to her starting-point.
“Well, I’m damned !” said Riley. “A live
woman couldn’t have done it better.”
“Thank you, sir,” said the glowing in-
ventor. “Now would you like to have a
trial yourself. Or perhaps Mrs. Riley?”
No, Mrs. Riley wouldn’t. Mrs. Riley, as
a good religious woman, didn’t like it—’twas
too uncanny altogether. But her husband
gladly went through the ritual of entering
and asking for all sorts and combinations of
drinks, all of which were delivered correctly.
“I wish I’d had her twenty years ago!” he
cried in gTeat delight after an exhaustive
test.
(Continued on next page.)


TO SOOTHE & HEAL YOUB
I
D
D
i!
%
Ns
£ i
Ns.
ZAM-BUK IS INVALUABLE
CHAPPED HANDS, sore lips, chilblains and cold sores
generally are not only dangerous but annoying,
and girls with sensitive skins often suffer untold misery.
In the worst cases the skin burns and smarts so fiercely that
every movement causes pain. There are cracks at the knuckles,
bleeding begins, and if the wound remains open, cold, dirt
and disease germs get into it, and festering is set up.
Hands which suffer under winter conditions can be restored
to a sound and healthy condition by the judicious application
of Zam-Buk. This pure balm exerts a delightfully cooling
and soothing influence, and quickly renders the skin soft and
strong. Zam-Buk is the ideal skin-protector, because its
unique skin-healing powers are helped by the absolute purity
and the great antiseptic value of its ingredients.
Zam-Buk contains none of the rancid animal fats such as
are found in ordinary ointments and salves. A nightly
dressing with Zam-Buk is the ideal way to keep the skin soft,
healthy and strong in winter.
CHAPS AND PAINFUL CRACKS HEALED.
“Last winter my hands got in a terrible state from the cold,” says
Mrs. Emsley, of Oljfton and Phillis Streets, Maylands, Adelaide. “They
chapped and cracked fearfully, and I dared not put them in water for
fear the cracks would bleed. My nails broke away in fissures, right
down to the quicks. Having Zam-Buk handy I dressed my hands with
the Balm on retiring at night, and put an old pair of gloves on, and
soon the cracks and painful fissures healed up nicely, and the skin was
made soft, sound and pliable.”
Every Home Needs Zam-Buk
Chilblains Banished.
Mrs. A. M. Paterson, of
9 Union Street, Port Mel-
bourne, says:—"Each
winter my husband and
little girl endured much
suffering from chilblains
which would swell up to
an awful size and burst.
“Hearing ofZam-Buk
we obtained a supply, and
dressed the chilblains
with it. Both the suf.
ferers were soon eased of
the irritation, and after
continuing with Zam-Buk
for a short time the chit-
bla i n s were banished
altogether.”
Sore Throat 6 Chest.
In cases of sore throat,
Zam-Buk is particularly
effective when rubbed on
the sides of the throat
Rubbing Zam-Buk well
into the chest, throat and
back is pleasant and
most beneficial treat-
ment for a cold and
“tightness” of the
chest.
Mothers who use Zam-
Buk as soon as the chil-
dren complain of sore
throat will be amply re-
paid for their foresight.
Zam- Buk Is In-
valuable for
chaps, chilblains,
cold-sores, cuts,
bruises, rheuma-
tism, eczema and
all winter affec-
tions; 1/6 and 3/6
per pot, all chem-
ists and stores.
SOOTHING AND HEALING?'
**7,
a
Safety Razor
A safety razor at a popular price
which will fulfil the requirements
of the most fastidious user.
This is the only safety razor selling at less than 225. 6d.
that can be stropped without removing the blade. In sim-
plicity and ingenuity of construction it surpasses even the
most expensive safety razors. With a single touch it sprirgs
open lor sti opping or cleaning —and with another touch
it snaps together into accurately adjusted shaving position
as shown in the two illustrations below.
BRITISH MAKE.
Heavily silver-plated razor, complete
in laidsome case, with strop in hinged
partition, and 6 finest
lancet steel blades (as
illustrated)
12/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Managing Agent* RALPH ABERCROMBY,
Denison House,
380-2 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Well, I’m sorry you’ve got to have her
now!” snapped his wife and flounced out
of the bar.
Riley winked at the inventor. “Jealous!
D’ye see what ye’ve done now? Ye’ve broke
up me home, so ye have!”
Gwennie started work next morning with
a watchful Riley hovering in attendance in
case of accidents. But the automaton worked
beautifully, and Riley almost regretted that
lie had darkened the bar in accordance with
expert advice. At last he felt enough'confi-
dence in his new employee to go up town to
the bank. He got back just in time. A
half-drunk stranger was leaning on the coun-
ter waving an empty whisky-bottle at the
coldly-indifferent Gwennie and shouting:
“’Ere! wot’s this ye’ve give me?”
And every time he spoke Gwennie would
say, iu an infuriating way, “Love-ly da-ay!”
“What’s this—what’s this?” cried Riley,
bustling in, all nervousness and bluff.
“ ’Ere! Do you keep this pub?”
“Yes, me man, I do.”
“Well, you oughter sack that tart! She
give me this empty bottle, an’ ”
“All right, sir ! All right! We’ll give you
a full one. She’s a new girl, an’ doesn’t
know th’ run of th’ place yet.” (By this
time he was behind the bar tripping over
Gwennie’s tram-line and muttering warnings
to himself about seeing that all bottles were
left filled in future before going out.)
“Is she deaf, too. Mister?”
“No, she isn’t. Your w'hisky, sir.”
“Why didn’t she give me a proper answer
then? I asked ’er a civil question, an’ she
says: ‘Love-ly da-ay!’ What is she —a
blanky duchess? Look at ’er now —turnin’
up ’er nose at a bloke.”
“Ah-h, get along like a good felly an’ don’t
worry th’ girl!”
“I’m not worryin’ ’er! I’m on’y askin’ ’er
to be friendly !”
The rejected customer struck the counter
with his clenched fist. “Oh, all right—l can
get along without yer!” Then, in a burst of
scorn: “I can find a paddickful of better
tarts any day!”
Riley wiped the beads of perspiration
from his brow, and, the bar being clear,
tested Gwennie again. She worked per-
fectly ; but Riley shook his head doubtfully.
“I’m afraid there’s too many complications
in the business for you, me girl. He should
have fitted yeh with more conversation.” And
at that precise moment the swing-doors
opened and in strode the journalist who had
shocked ail the barmaids in Australia —even
the Grand Past Barmaids who have for-
gotten how to blush.
Beautiful mechanical Gwennie swam to
meet the customer, who at once swept off
his hat and called her sweetheart.
Gwennie merely stood waiting, wearing
her baffling Mona Lisa smile. The journalist
frowned slightly, leant on the counter and
stroked her rounded arm. “Darling!” he
said. “Do not misjudge me, dearest! I
have not come here to drink ! I have come
here to see and talk with you! Lean down
to the whisky, Melisande, and I will tell you
what the tallow merchant said to the typiste
on the last Thursday.” And then, stijl hold-
ing her arm firmly lest she should try to
escape, the great journalist poured into her
telephonic ear the very worst story he knew.
At least he poured part of it. He was
just working up to the climax when Gwennie
went mad with a whiz and a whir and shot
up to the end of the bar with the dazed
storyteller hanging on to her patent rubber-
and-steel arm. Reaching the terminus with
a crash, Gwennie immediately started back,
raced the’ full length of the bar, and was
half-way home before Riley could yell to the
journalist to let go. Gwennie’s other arm
was raking down the bottles from the shelves
as she went, and the steady roar of the little
wheels on which she travelled was punctu-
ated with glassy crashes and explosions. The
more trips she made the faster she went, and
presently Riley was too afraid to attempt to
catch her as she racketted to and fro, with
the limp journalist still clinging to her arm
like a monkey in a hurricane. When pre-
sently his grip slackened through exhaustion
he flew through the air like a storm-driven
leaf and landed under a settee with a crash.
Gwennie, relieved of his weight, flew back-
wards and forwards so fast that she only
seemed to be flickering; and presently she hit
the far end of the counter with a sickening
crash, fractured her metallic spine and fell
out of sight under the counter.
Riley has got a live barmaid in charge
now. But she isn’t tormented by the jour-
nalist. No barmaid ever is nowadays. The
journalist’s nerve is so shaken that he treats
all barmaids with deep respect, and has
never summoned up the courage necessary to
telpthe tallow-merchant story. Even Riley
can’t get it out of him.
KODAK.
Annunciation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BRENT pressed the red loam down
tightly with his boot, so that the
explosive should meet with proper
resistance, and then backed away from the
seat of action. It was the last big stump in
the orchard, and signified the end of his
work. There was other work ahead of him,
new and dangerous work, and now that he
had fully made up his mind to go he could
think of nothing else.
Below him stretched the clearing he had
hacked out of the scrub, a few acres planted
in young orange-trees, and to the left a big
paspalum paddock, where his small dairy-
herd found fat pasture. It had all been done
in four years, and he felt proud of his handi-
work. In the soft sunlight of early June the
light green of the young trees looked good to
him. and here and there a precocious seedling
showed golden fruit. When he came back—
and he meant to come back—they would all
be in full bearing.
A dull explosion shook the ground, and the
stump seemed to leap in the air and quiver,
the red loam breaking round its long, tena-
cious roots. Even the tap-root had been dis-
lodged.
“Good!” muttered Brent, examining his
work. “I thought three sticks of the stuff
would shift it. I’ll be able to finish it with
the jack.” „ ,
He sat down on a patch of dry grass and
felt for his pipe, though he did not want to
smoke. Up the track that led across a
corner of the paspalum paddock and through
the orange-trees his wife was coming with the
mid-day meal, salt-beef and sweet potatoes in
one billy and tea in the other. It was her
custom to bring it to him in the open when
he was very busy, and of late she had missed
no opportunity of getting out into the warm,
bright sunlight. .
Brent watched the slim figure in the floppy
sun-hat with the quiet intentness of a man
who is seeing something familiar from a new
angle. Although he had quite made up his
mind htf had not told her yet. He knew that
separation would mean more to her than to
him, for he would be coming in contact with
new experiences, while she would be merely
sitting still and waiting. Yet from some-
thing in her attitude he guessed that she had
divined what had been going on iii his mind
for the past few months.
“Better tell her now,” he thought. “It’s
about time.”
He did not anticipate that she would play
the baby. She had always taken everything
stoically in the two years since they were
married, for in spite of her apparent softness
there was a core of grit in her. And there
were no complications. They had no children,
and she could go to live with Molly, his
sister. As for the place, Connor was ready
to take it over on the half-share system.
“I got a scare,” she said, coming up and
putting the billies on the grass. “I forgot
you were using dynamite.”
“It’s the last big stump,” he said.
They sat down and began their meal.
Brent looked at her sideways. More than
ever he suspected that she guessed his news,
and he wished he had told her before. There
was something different about her that day,
a faint color in her cheeks, a light in her
eyes. She seemed almost shy and emotional.
There was silence for a few minutes as he
chewed his food and looked down over the
orange-trees to where a triangle of tin roof
shone in the sun.
“Well.” he said abruptly, “I’ve made up
my mind to go.”
She looked up.
“To go? Where, Harry?”
“Where all the other chaps have gone,” he
said, a little sharply.
It was a big decision after all; but he did
not want to be flamboyant about it. His
instinct was to take it as quietly as possible,
in order that she might do so too. She
seemed suddenly to grow very still, but there
was no particular surprise in her eyes.
“I only really made up my mind this morn-
ing, when I was settling that last stump,” he
said. “But there’s nothing that can’t be fixed
up easily. It isn’t as if we had any kids.”
“No,” she responded, flushing a little.
He looked at her secretly.
“I suppose it’s a bit of a knock-out for
you, Delia?” he said.
She was silent for awhile.
“It oughtn’t to be. I’ve half expected you
to make up your mind any time these lasl
few months.”
“You have?”
“Of course.”
He was glad she took it so sensibly, but
nevertheless the slight strain of vanity in
him was hurt. His mind was full of the
break it would make in their lives, for he
had never been away from her two days since
they were married. Yet she did not seem to
be greatly affected by the prospect. She was
merely still and preoccupied. Dor the first
time he felt that his mind was a mystery to
him. He could not guess what thoughts lay
behind her dark eyes.
“I’ve planned it all out,” he said, keeping
as closely as possible to practical arrange-
ments. “Connor would give his eyes for the
chance of taking over the place on the half-
share system, especially now that we’ve got
a dozen milkers going. And the fruit-trees
will be growing all the time. Lord knows
how long it will be before it’s all over, but
we’ll have something good to come back to,
anyway! And you’ll be more comfortable
at Molly’s than anywhere else. You two
always got along well together,”
They talked their plans over in detail, but
the woman’s mind seemed to have lost sharp-
ness and grip. Though she showed no sign
of emotion her eyes had an inward, absorbed
look. She glanced covertly at her husband,
and was not deceived by the evenness of his
voice. He was just thirty-two, bronzed and
hard-muscled, and he was going away to a
new, varied life that held danger and adven-
ture. The affectation of indifference was a
pretence on his part as much as on hers.
When he had finished his smoke she col-
lected the debris of the meal and stood up, a
crooked smile on her face.
“Well,” she said, “when have you fixed to
go, Harry?”
“In about a fortnight,” he replied. “I’ll
have everything square by then.”
“Make it three weeks,” she said. “We’ll
want one clear week to ourselves. We’ve
never had a holiday together, you know.”
“That’s true,” he assented.
It was all very matter-of-fact. Both
seemed afraid of the emotional possibilities
ot the situation, for they were not skilled in
words.
The woman went off down the hill, with
her mind numbed and every muscle taut. It
had all been very different from what she
had imagined as she had gone out through
the orange-trees, something singing in her
heart and her feet keeping time. This was
the day she had chosen to break the news to
ow '\ news - And he had anticipated
her by about ten seconds.
I i Wa l a f cr , et she ha( J ke Pt hidden for
weeks, though she had not felt sure of its
reality until that day. And she had looked
forward to the time when she would be able
to tell him. She felt that he would be stirred
re-awakened, and that for awhile the days of
their courting would come back. It was one
of the traditional privileges of womanhood
tion. et J °' V ° Ut ° f that moment of annuncia-
bHui, '“wait Si
not going to hold him back.” S 1
She stopped suddenly then amnnw +i»„
orange-trees, for, for the first time h
lif» aoenwd to „tir beSath herErt n ™
RAND DALY.


;i , " -
IbM
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland A&’enfc hi 1 MCC 9. runnru n„; n i ■■ 1
Queensland Agrente-KCLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z, Offioe—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Office— 99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
HEAItH
ptJ'Coltis BrotfD^
CWorody/>e
The Original ami Only Genuine.
THU BEST MEDICINE lOK
Coughs, Co/dsi Asthma,
and in the Cough of BKONCHITIS and
CONS V AI I'XIOX.
Checks f’EVEItiSH-
N'CSS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
I'S/ASMS and
COLIC.
V»
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery ,
0/ alt Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
After The Bath
baby should be well dried. To leave him partly dry
exposes him to colds. Ihe towel is not enough, as
excessive rubbing chafes his tender skin.
fWpP#
Berated Talcum Powder
Absorbs moisture and dries him thoroughly.
It fills the crevices and folds of his skin with a soft lubri-
cant that prevents chafing and irritation—it keeps his
skin smooth and promotes restful sleep.
MENNEN’S TALCUM POWDER
is the product of our own mines in Italy. It is today recoe-
razed by Doctors, Nurses, and Mothers to be the finest in
texture, and freest from im'purities than any. Properly
borated and faintly scented by “Mennen's” secret process.
Insist on the Original—on the only Genuine MENNEN’S Borated Talcum
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N.
i)
Trade Marfa
Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
ahJ O/j
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON U
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
First Aid to Beauty
Beecham’s Pills are Nature’s first aid to beauty. They
strengthen the digestion, create appetite, free the blood
of all impurities, clear the complexion and tone the en-
tire system. Used in every land for over sixty years,
Beecham’s Pills are a blessing to womankind for those
recurring ills which frequently sap the strength and un-
dermine the general health. Taken at the first signs of
derangement, Beecham’s Pills soothe and regulate the
functions and create health, beauty and happiness by
their prompt and beneficent action.
Beauty Is largely a matter of health. Bright eyes,
clear skin, rosy cheeks, red lips are charms that make
the plainest features attractive. These are the secret
of womanly beauty and Beecham’s Pills do more for the
maid or matron than any other medicine. A healthy
stomach, active liver, regular bowels, sound sleep and
clear complexion are the reward pf every woman who
lives reasonably, eats moderately and takes Beecham’s
Pills when there are symtoms that indicate any
disturbance of the stomach, liver or ho
Clear
Sold everywhere
4sj 56*®Sf&. *"■ •■
!*#, -
£ 1 .
•v
*»'*.•.
a&* %*>■
p?*s £ i
S.B.
fails - Barron Gorac
the wonderful hinterland
ounshme, Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers. A qloriQu*
season of soft sunshine
ana scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
is yours for the asking
/v// in ?hu coupon
dfeffie
Arfcfresi
7“ A4r Director- of
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane, CUJEBIVsLaJV
m
-}?> -
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed
Seven
Medals.
Wor-kat BlrnUngham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER Carburetor
is made in probably
The Largest Carburetor Factory in the World.
The Plant at Indianapolis, U.S.A., employs 1500
workmen, and has a capacity of 4000 complete
instruments per day.
The Schebler is noted for Economy, Dependability. Power
and there are hundreds of Satisfied Local Users.
There is a Schebler designed for every type of
engine, whether Land, Marine or Aero.
MOTOR-CAR TYPES (N.S.W. Prices).
"FORD” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit ; ps/k/
"20-h.p. HUPP” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit * *****
"BUICK LITTLE 6” Combination, with Manifold ready to At. !!!*!!!"!"!” * £s's/-
( (Ensures easy starting and quick acceleration) / ~
tor S t XOn t” “ stan dard,” “Stellite,” “G.W.K.” and other light cars
( _ Carburetor «nI.V). For Mod. 51 8-cyl. "Cadillac,” £4/15/-; “M 6 Chalmers”
Maxwell/' 1914, £4/5/-; “Oakland,” £4/5/-; "Overland ef/s/ *'
15. 4-evl £2/12/« T,- „.i on A .. r : ana t *l/5/*
£4/5/-, £4/10/- each.
yripps-Booth^clO 15 , 4-cyl., £2/12/6 each. For other’ 20-h.p. Cars, *4,
MOTOR-CYCLE TYPES (N.S.W. Prices).
Fnr ‘‘s? dia ?” .Combination, with Manifold ready to fit £v , ~
For 7-h.p. Douglas” or “Enfield" Twins. . €2 /mV *7 3/6 each
For 7-h.p. "Excelsior,” "Harley Davidson,” "HenderVon,” 'etc., Twlm ! .
CORRESPONDENCE CORDIALLY INVITED.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD,, 304 Pitt St., Sydney
Sole Agents in Australia for Messrs. Wheeler & SohehL...


MANCROVTTE-
-3 LEATHER jK
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all otlier so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured only bv
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
*
Supplied
in OCTAGON and
CRUCIFORM SOLID SECTIONS,
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard. \
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Mas maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD IE & CO
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle. [1
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE"
F
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT."
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd
•3 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Auckland, N.£
PERMASITE
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
EPSOM SALTS.
ASPI RI N Manufactured under Special License
* * from Commonwealth Govt.
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
[4
IS*
<
C
t a»of
O
o
y
$
y;
£oiTf£
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing: with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys east-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z., 1/G.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
Cast-iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Vidoria.
in OIL ENGINES
All Sizes. to 12J h.p.
"Bit Chief.”
AMERICA’S BEST
Field Type <W).
A HIGH=GRADE ENGINE.
2 to 5 h.p.
Fairbanks.
5 to 8 h.p.
Obtain full particulars before or<
elsewhere.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R.LSCRUTTON & CO.LTD.
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
.VTW V~ V:
M
&
. C*':
» I*
V
■
mm
f MiW
' C|J,-ife'|
'
--.. is
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
DELCO-LIGHT-
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTQN, FRANKI LTD,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
pp '^BANE.
THE WORLD’S LATEST
FARM ENGINE
FEATURES—
WORKS ON KEROSENE .... which means Fael Economy.
STARTS ON PETROL which means Quick Start—No Waiting.
THROTTLE GOVERNED . . . : which means Uniform Speed—No “Cut Out.”
GEAR-DRIVEN MAGNETO . . which means Hot Spark—Nothing Better.
MECHANICAL SPARK PLUG which means Fewer Spark Plug Troubles.
SPEED REGULATOR which means the Speed You Want.
OUR PRICES which mean Best Engine Value ever offered.
ASK FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
Type “Z
1917
Model.
Sole Agents:
DANGAR, GEDYE $ CO. LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
You Cannot Afford Waste and Loss in Your Power Plant.
EFFECT IMMEDIATE ECONOMY BY INSTALLING
THE EVERLASTING VALVE
(PATENTED)
Adopted by 157 Railway Companies. TOTAL SALES TO DATE ABOUT 250,000.
The Valve, as its name implies, is practically everlasting.
o
bVfflt'
Section of valve
LET US MAIL YOU BOOK DESCRIBING IT. VALVES SENT ON APPROVAL,
v Sole Licensees and Manufacturers for Australasia
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
City Office : Equitable Building:, 350 Georg:e Street. Sydney.
Works t CAMPERDOWN.
