

PkiWAB’S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
LISTEN!
Our Brave Australian Boys are Calling for YOUR HELP!
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
Will you fail them in this.hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written.
*
WATKINS CD, C 3., Iron and Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney.
SaMP I
On all Classes of Securer
r>iscouisnrßt>
terms Interest
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY
74.
Next to “Dally Telegraph’’ New Building.
18fl Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.9.W
215-217 Swanston Street,- M
't elephone: City 9825.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTACE BENNETT, CsiMral Managwr.
40
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO.DAV
SO-PAGE BOOK.
.TING
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR ft MONEYS
WALL Ml
■■BEDS
'GOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
Por In- and Out-door ,
American Wall Bed 'Co..
380 George Street, near Q.P.0., Sydney
si
Ps.
" “Si-Great Record!”
HUTTON’S
*—■ PINEAPPLE ” BRAND
-CfOR 45 YEARS THE BEST
Hams & Bacon
RAWS ON MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE
built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages over wooden
post fences, as k saves 80 per ccr.t. in erection
labor and weighs onlv 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costa
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particulars write to The Rawron Moody Mfg\ Co., 343 Kent St.,
Sydney, or send for cn Illustrated Catalogue B.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
For INDIGESTION
ant! DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 Pirst-Class Prize Medals.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
:
u*
$
Royal
Butch
COCOA
superior;
EVERY WAY.
■
ZJ3
“SCRUTTON’S” for OIL ENGINES.
Positively THE “Right Firm” to supply you with the WORLD’S BEST (Engtfsh or American).
Only a few left. Order Early to avoid disappointment.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L SGRUTTON & CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, &YDNEY,
“Where the Best Engines tire Sold.*’
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
Extra
Special
WHITE LABEL s.v.o.
GILBERT LODGE 8 CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney. 115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & C 6. LTD.
NORTH BRITISH LOCOITOTIVE CO. LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAY LEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
CHANCE BROS. LTD.
WEBSTER & BENNETT
» PAI nm
“3X5
HXOOX
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the MoutiT
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
,lla Crgch
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 38.—N0. 1953. J
[Thursday, July 19, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a


“BRITISH!”
THAT'S
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
USED ALL OVER THE WORLD BY CONNOISSEURS.
TUCKER (Si CO., SYDNEY.
Tho Oldost Wine and Spirit Merchants in Australia .
PAINTED CLAY,
By CAPEL BOAKE.
4/-* or post 4/2, All Australian.
Every newspaper praises it.
AUSTRALASIAN AUTHORS’ AGENCY,
237 Collins Street, Melbourne.
s EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
1 6 per Tin.
SUITABLE FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
no 3l he .?iv I)ICAL Pre ss and Circular
ih<? se Jujubes should be of
special service to Lecturers, Public
feingers and Speakers, and, indeed, to
irnLe 0 are called upon to use their
voices frequently for prolonged periods ”
n! Co J u Shs. Colds, Sore Throats,
lonchitis, Influenza and the
cr-,n!!!5 ntion of Consumption.
SIITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
The Red Page
A New Austratain Author?
This, too. is.the dinkum oil. T&e author
<*st t frtu!' : (foo-ci> Contingent (Cassell, 3. if
.'3Sngtflffit)i - mrM*yn anonymous, though ><■ > '
abundantly evident' that he. is of the
brt-vid< : '.-Tlus buod.lfL«£ stories oi p ■ im * •
wrirbtSy a IjfdJance and a k owleoge
,bnxb r3Kfiiiijim. >so log;, and of bis doings
,&bi*63Tj; that j&eSfcs this pag< various and
" eager to peaet-GHte- QreanonymU - ft this Aus-
transti-Trr { trtT For the book will rank us a
proud contribution to our wfir literature
ami if the author is a beginner- which o
the evidence of feift style is absurd —he ha
a hie future before, him. He stands in th
rauk of war writers next to Boyd Cable
though The Coo-cc Contingent is too autlien
tically Australian to be properly appreciated
overseas.
The subtle humor of “Father,” emphasis
ing the moral that “War is war when on
is in a Pioneer Battalion,” will be fully
appreciated only by the soldier who has beer
there. Billjim as lover forms the theme o.
many of these stories. The author insist
chat. Billjim is a sentimental bloke. There
is the story of Queensland Jack and the lady
of the harem; “She looked up and I made
the salute, swanky like. ‘Come in. poo
soldier,’ she said in a little softish voice, 3
came in, and she gave me a whisky and soda
and—oh, well, it’s easy when you know how
I got my training when 1 was a kid way
up on Charters Towers. They're all the
same. It’s love the#' want, and mostly they're
married to the blokes that were saved from
the Ark.”
liis descriptions are always apt. “A man
seldom remembers a charge. I’ve sat in the
Hotel Cecil and beard 20 different accounts
of that day from 20 different liars who were
never within miles of it, but the chaps who
were there just held their glasses up, lookec
at them reflectively, and then gulped down
their whisky neat. Perhaps they drank to
the dead —who kn0w5”....“1 don’t suppose
yon English can understand how it feels to
a colonial to be Again in the old town am
see the places the grand-dad talked about
It’s like church parade on a battlefield, with
the dead lying round, and every band for
miles poming in on ‘God Save’”... .“When
the Australian first went to war he wasn’t
unduly impressed with the importance anc
dignity of Generals. He took a few home-
grown ones with him from Australia, but one
cannot enthuse over Old Man Smith, who
used to dash for the 9.30 train from Subur-
bia same time as Billjim was making for the
city for the day, even when he becomes
General Browne-Smith, Q.M.G., especially
when that trick of lifting the left nasal organ
instead of using a hanky is still pari
of Browne-Smith’s connotation.” Belovec
Birdy was of course an exception: he was
too much of a man to be always thought hi
as a gentleman ; and in one delightful story
we learn how Kitchener made good with Bill-
jim at Anzac. And there is this apt apology
for. what Australians suppose to be their
national vice, though, incidentally, no British
correspondent has suspected its existence
among us. “I don’t suppose you know what
a relief it is to brag. You think it’s ‘bad
form.’ or something very like it, and you
sternly repress it in yourselves and your
children. But when you take boys from the
workshop aud the plough, the banker’s desk
aM the merchant’s office, and plant them
along a battle-front the like of which has
never been imagined before, they must work
off the experiences that crowd on them some-
how.”
J*
The pathetic surviving belief that some
day there will be a use for cavalry on the
Western front is made the subject of a
dramatic story of the Somme. The author
pictures the great gathering of thousands
and thousands of “the finest horses and
men in the world, the British Cavalry” be-
hind the lines impatiently waiting their
glorious chance., put once again the line
bent, did not break, The- hero in the
trenches is ordered by his angry infantrv
colonel; “Go to the rear, and tell that
blasted cavalry regiment behind us to get
off our heels; we don’t want them charging
over us.” He bplted back to the vanguard
of that army of horses. An officer rode for-
ward. “Through? We’re wanted?” he
panted excitedly. “By God, we’re ready!”
“No. My instructions are to ask you to
stop pressing of our rear." The last touch
of pathos is in the sound of the cavalry
cheering The Day—the day when the cav-
alry breaks- through.
, Characteristically the finest story in this
brilliant collection deals with tlie horse,
lhe author says that the old idea that
cavalry was in this scrap to give tone to it
died hard, and be thinks its death-song must
have been sung in Egypt. During the
months when every staff-officer in Europe
knew that cavalry wasn’t- any use in this
war, we were admiring the Australian Light
Horse and predicting a tremendous success
for them.’ Those left behind in Egvpt
while their mates m the infantry embarked
tor lhe Latin ins cursed the British army
for its stiff-necked ways, they cursed the
Australian Government for its utter blind-
ness in pot being more up to date about
war; and, above all, they cursed the horse
tor not growing chain-armor over his hide
nor being able to throw hand-grenades with
his front It>gs. And the scene when half
the Light Horse were allowed to go. while
th“ l ’ther half had to .slay behind to mind
their mates’ mokes?, is described with all its
pathos. But the riderless horses felt toe
narcing even more. One night—this may
be fiction, but it is fiction fine enough to be
true—-file restless horses got beyond control.
•‘The sergeant came in, white-faced, ‘btr,
h r ~ stammered, ’those —horses —-well, it s the
horse# of the chaps that are in Gallipoli,
they’re going mad !”
It was a bight of storm. After a terrific
burst of lightning the men had to let the
horses go.
"Next morning we collected what was left
of them 20 miles away. All day stragglers
came back into camp.
“And within 24 hours the tragic charge
of the Sth Light Horse on Lone Bine was
known to us, and the dead horses were equal
in number to the dead men.”
This is one of the few great stories of the
war. "The Gallipoli Riders” is a better bit
of fiction than "The Angels of Mons.”
Wells, Spurs, Tanks and God
H. G. Wells is still britling. lie has visited
three fronts of the war, and tells us the
usual things about them, and adds the inter-
esting information that Kipling is the next
war-tourist on the list. Yet in War and the
Future (Cassell, 3s. (id. in England) Wells
cannot help seeing different things and see-
ing the same old differently. Thus his one
word for tie war is queer. “It is not like
anything in a really waking world, but
like something in a dream....the world
is not really awake. My memory of
this tour is full of puzzled-looking men
... .in a gigantic, dusty, muddy, weedy,
blood-stained silliness. It is the plain
duty of every man to give his life
and all that he has, if by so doing he may
help to end it.’’ This war is nothing but a
gigantic and heroic effort in sanitary engin-
eering, Germany being the Smell. And
there are no Napoleons either commanding
the garbage-carts or in the dustbins. “The
great man of this war is the common man;
the acts of the small men dwarf all the pre-
tensions of the Great Man.” Somehow the
predicted superman has failed to arrive:
probably a machine-gun got him. The Kaiser
is the last of the Great Personages of his-
tory. “In the light of the new time we see
the emperor-god for the guy he is.”
“It seems to be part of the stern resolve
of Fate that this, the greatest of wars, shall
be the least glorious; it is manifestly being
decided not by victories but by blunders. It
is indeed a history of colossal stupidities.”
But Wells is nowadays interested chiefly in
new instruments and methods of warfare—
and God. The cavalry charge and the cav-
alry pursuit are now as obsolete as the cross-
bow. “Everyone is a beginner at this new
game of war, everyone is experimenting and
learning.. All the Allied infantry men tend
to become specialised, as bombers, as machine-
gun men, etc. The unspecialised common
soldier is obsolete. The rifle and bayonet
very probably are becoming obsolete, too.
Knives and clubs and revolvers serve bettor
in the trenches.” Wells notes that our men’s
weakness is their inability to excavate
trenches rapidly. Well, as Wells is always
inventing new machines, this page makes a
modest suggestion. This takes the form of
a tiny motor excavator on caterpillar trac-
tion that will accompany the men on their
charge, and on arrival at the captured trench
get swiftly and expeditiously to work to
deepen it or connect up shell craters. A sort
of Kewpie Tank.
One of the most valuable deductions made
by Wells is that war has now bpen so elabo-
rated that it is absolutely impossible for any
barbaric people or any people without the
highest industrial organisation to wage war
at all. In fact, there are only four nations who
in the future will be able to fight: Britain.
Franco, Germany and the U.S.A.. while less
certainly equal to the effort are Italy. Japan,
Tvussia and Austria. With a flSodern out-
fit the TJ.S.A. should be able to clean up
Mexico in three weeks—and the U.S.A. is
acquiring that outfit.
The most pathetic thing in this war is the
hope that some day some use will be found
for cavalry. For the horse is obsolete. “To
what possible use can cavnlrv be put? Gan it
be used in attack? Not against trenches ; that
is better done by infantry following up gun-
fire. Can it be used against broken infantry
in the open t Not if the enemy has or
two machine-guns covering their retreat,
bor pursuit the use of wire and the machine-
gun have abolished the possibility of a pour-
ing cavalry charge. The swooping aeroplane
does everything that cavalry can do in the
way of disorganising the enemy, and far
moie than it can do in the way of silencing
machine-guns so far from cavalrv being
able ., to negotiate country where machines
would stick and fail, mechanism can now
ride over places where any horse would
nounder. Ihe only future part for the
horse to play in war that Wells sees is the
rather ignominious one of becoming a happy
parent of a transport mule.
And still the British army officer wears
spurs.
Those spurs prick Wells on the raw. They
w P n a 81 • y surv 'val of the war that was.
Wells points out that the military “expert”
is a man who learnt his business before
1914; lie is trained to think ft war as
essentially an affair of cavalry, infantry ir
formation and field-guns; whereas cavalry is
entirely obsolete, infantry no longer fights
in formation, and the methods of gunnery
have been entirely changed. The military
man still runs about the world m spurs, he
travels in trains in spurs, he walks in sfiurs,
he thinks in terms of spurs.
The French think we economise brains
and waste life. For thousands of years the
conception of the common soldier has been
a mechanically obedient, almost dehumanised
man ; of the officer, a highly-trained autocrat.
In two years all this lias been absolutely
reversed. Individual quality, inventive
organisation arid industrialism will win this
war. “And no class is so innocent of these
things as the military caste....the aero-
planes and great guns have bolted with them ;
the tanks, begotten of naval and civilian
wits, shove them to victory in spite of them-
selves.” And British officers walk the
trenches in spurs. “What the gross cost
of the spurs and horses and trappings of
the British army amount to, and how many
men are grooming and tending horses who
might just as well be ploughing and milking
at home, I cannot guess; it must be a total
so enormous as seriously to affect the balance
of the war.” lie insists that the British
are still wearing spurs in Ireland.
Wells suggests that the war is so unpre-
cedented that the world has no idea how to
get out of it. His sketch of the essentials
of a genuine world • settlement is sensible
and acceptable to the ordinary citizen ; though
doubtless Wells would have revised his con-
clusions had he guessed that America was
going to butt in. The prophet of the tanks
failed to gauge the mind of America.
And so we come-to God, after, of course, a
strenuous attack upon the churches. There
is “the Anglican Church using the tragic
stresses of the war mainly for pew-rent
touting, and the Catholic Church paralysed
by its Austrian and South German political
connections from any clear utterance upon
the. moral issues of the war.” And though
Wells gives evidence for his belief that there
is a great wave of religious revival in the
world to-day, he doubts whether it bodes
weli for the professional religious. The only
possible formula for mankind that Wells
can see is “the Kingdom of God over a
world-wide system of republican States.”
His forthcoming hook, God, the Invisible
King, will fully explain his religious belief.
•
It is a commonplace, too long regarded
with a universal complacence, that copies of
The Bulletin regularly posted to individu-
als at the Front punctually and pertina-
ciously fail to arrive. Nowadays hardly any-
one considers it worth while to report the
non-arrival of mail matter which the post
office undertakes to transmit. That the
failure is not wholly due to the post office,
and therefore cannot be classed as casualties
at the Front, i$ proved by frequent cases of
Bulletins posted to addresses in Aus-
tralia which vanished en route. It is also
a commonplace and also an indictment
against the Postmaster-General that in order
to ensure the safe arrival of Bulletins
wise Australians take the precaution of
ostentatiously enclosing them in the covers
of The Australian Hen or Home Snips
for Spinsters, or some other equally non-
sectarian and godly publications. The
P.M.G. is politely asked to remove this slur
from the department that he controls; and
post-office officials should be equally con-
cerned in taking steps to clear their charac-
ters. Those vanished Bulletins must have
arrived somewhere. It should be an easy
matter for the officials themselves to locate
the receivers of stolen goods; and it should
not be above the dignity of the P.M.G. to
help them. In peace time this unpleasant post-
office habit was tolerated as a joke: but in
wartime the sneak thief who prevents Bill-
jun receiving even Tiie Dungog Booster is
as mean as the cow that applauds the
recruiting speakers in Martin Place while
wearing a pair of what ought to have been
Billjim s socks.
Challis V. Jervis enlightens us: Leon M.
Gellert is his real name (tied Page, 7/6/17)!
A South Australian by birth, the young poet
(not yet 26) received his early education at
the East Adelaide State School, whence he
Training It, W Al,strf,,i " n Teachers*
i r !’ning College, and was teacliiug for the
in 1014 UC rl'iik l . 6^ r » mPU !) when he enlist(J d
7- (ia J ll P°fi followed. Discharged as
ZtT'l? "“"'A.'?, 16 ' prof fss l”,' S aJ„?n
calletl lum, and Gellert is now teaching at
of e hD°for 00 i StatP Sch ° o1 ’ SA - A classmate
ot his for sis years, the writer well remem-
he s Leon as a wiry and highly-strung boy
who cared nothing for games, but wfs an
aval reader of Ballantyne, Stevenson and
Mark fwain. Incidentally is not “The best
collection of poetry that has come out of the
g
s! ,ce od j,our
B “ k '
War
The aviator is the sole picturesque sur-
vival in this muddy, bloody war of to-day;
be has something of the quality, the pride
and the aloofness of the mediaeval knight.
He does his stunts alone, on a cleared stage.
The air-fleets are officered by boys; and in
the aeroplane literature of this war there is
always the joy and the jollity of youth. Here
is another aerial veteran, “Theta,” a pilo
just 10 years old, who in War Flying
(Murray, Is.) prints his cheerful and irre
sponsible letters home. He describes his
training and lus war experiences, and the
former' were as vigorous as the latter
“Theta” reckons that he ought to have los
his life during his training 15 i times, and
the extracts from his, diary prove it.
Over in France he notes that a good land
ing is a bounce of about 20 feet into the air
and a diminuendo of bounce, like a grass-
hopper—until you pull up. A fairly bad
landing is a bounce of 50 feet and diminu-
endo. “Theta” was employed observing for
the guns and photographing trenches, anc
every day he had an adventure. The things
that interest him most are ping-pong, the
making of tennis-coitrts, “Archie,” and the
behavior of his engine, though perhaps not
precisely in that order. There is a sample
of professional jealousy. “Dunno why the
other squadron was mentioned in dispatches.
They have about seven of our chaps there
—perhaps that’s why—or perhaps the Gen-
eral lost some money at bridge to the C.O.
or perhaps they drew lots for it.” The
boredom of “observing” for the guns is
characteristically expressed: “Each time 1
crossed the lines I did so at a different alti-
tude. The first five times I climbed highei
each time to throw the range out, and the
next five times I came down a bit each
time. The last five times I was so fed ’up
with their dud shooting that I went across
at whatever altitude I happened to be at,
and that probably upset ’em more than
ever!” They fired 600 shells at him that
morning, with the net result of a small hole
through the top plane. Of, course “Theta”
was dodging and diving all the time. Up
aloft a pilot frequently gets a “shell bump,”
caused by the British shells passing near
him in the air even up to 5000 feet. “Theta”
even saw two shells passing him!
While doing some practice work behind
the front “Theta” tried his first loop:
“Oheer-o!” he writes, “Now I’ll write home
and tell them. No, I must do another. If
I did only one they would think I funked it
after the first shot.” Thereupon over the
aerodrome he did a couple more—•“beauties”!
Remember he is only 19 —and it is only 19
that is conquering the German army. On
another occasion he and a fellow-kid had a
sham aerial battle close to the lines “for
the amusement of the Tommies in the
trenches.” But of course he bad his
“crash”: the polite expression for a smashed
machine is this phrase: “I am having several
new walking sticks made” —evidently these
are mementoes made from the wreckage.
Finally, here is his summing up of 24 hours’
work: “Three forced landings, four hours*
flying, one night flight, and a crash —not
bad, eh?” One hopes that “Theta” will see
his twentieth birthday.
' .
The Scene of War , by V. C. Scott-O’Con-
nor (Blackwood, 55.), is one of those charm-
ingly-written descriptive works so abun-
dantly produced by this trouble which on their
first appearance in serial form, hot from the
battlefield, are so eagerly read. YVhen pub-
lished in book form they are duds. The
author has seen the scrimmage in Greece,
Italy, France, Egypt and Mesopotamia; and
his descriptions betray an observant ami
philosophic mind. Incidentally he hands
Billjim of the Light Horse the usual British
butter on a lordly dish. “There is,” he con-
cludes, “I should think no cavalry in the
world the natural equal of these splendid
horsemen.” And, though Billjim and his
moke liave invaluable work to do on the
sandy outskirts of the trouble, Wells assures
us that in modern warfare mokes are off.
Weil, the Billjim of the future will ride
through air with all the skill that he displays
riding through the bush or through the baggy
Turk.
J*
trouble about The Land of Deepening
Shadow by D. Thomas Curtin (Hodder and
Stoughton) is that it has been too successful
m the press. The gist of these interesting
articles. by an American journalist who suc-
ceeded in thoroughly investigating Germany
during war time has been published by
London Times and extensively cabled
throughout the world. Thus we already
Know his extraordinary revelations, and the
book merely amplifies the details. Had there
been no prior publication of these disclosures
this volume would have proved of enormous
value. The facts are still there for those
7°.. h , ave merely glanced at the cabled results
or this young journalist’s dangerous and
audacious investigations.


V
CHALLENGE OIL ENGINES
The CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE has been DESIGNED to MEET the
REQUIREMENTS of the MAN on the LAND, who DEMANDS an EFFI-
CIENT, RELIABLE, EVEN-RUNNING Engine. The CHALLENGE
has MAGNETO IGNITION, is QUICKLY started, EASILY operated, and
REMARKABLY economical in FUEL CONSUMPTION.
era
CHALLENGE
WE STOCK THE CHALLENGE
OIL ENGINE in SIX SIZES,
As follows: —
The Challenge Oil Engine
is neat and compact, and
even the lower-powered
types are capable of per-
forming heavy work. We
quote the following: as
having been done by a
2-h.p. model: —Drove a
l2in. Centrifugal Pump,
giving 5000 gals, per hour
on 20ft. head; 3in. Centri-
fugal Pump, giving 11.000
gals, per hour on 12ft.
head; Dynamo, 20 lights;
Bone Mill, 100 to 200 lb.
per hour; Hay’s Corn
Sheller, 25 to 50 bushels
per hour; Cream Separ-
ator, any usual size;
Chaffcutter, up to 9in.
mouth, 2 blades; Meat
Chopping Machines* 351 b.
in 5 minutes; Churns,
Wheat Grader, Milking
Machines.
CHALLENGE WINDMILLS
THE MAN ON THE LAND has OFTEN to
LEAVE the FARM WORK he is doing to
REPLENISH the HOUSEHOLD WATER supply.
The ACTUAL operation of PUMPING daily from
a WELL to the HOUSE TANK does not take up a
GREAT DEAL of time, but in the AGGREGATE it
represents HUNDREDS of WASTED HOURS
YEARLY. He should instal a CHALLENGE
WINDMILL to do the pumping for him. The
TIME SAVED would be REFLECTED in the
MONETARY RETURN from his farm. The UP-
TO-DATE MAN uses a CHALLENGE WINDMILL
and CONTINUALLY SOUNDS its PRAISES.
The CHALLENGE CONSTRUCTION is the
EMBODIMENT of SUPERIOR MECHANICAL
ELEMENTS, BROUGHT TOGETHER for the first
time in ONE UNEQUALLED COMBINATION;
and PRODUCING A WINDMILL of EXCEP-
TIONAL MERIT.
Briefly stated, these elements consist of an
INTERNAL GEAR, CENTRE ONE-riECE
CRANK, ROCKER ARM, SPLIT BOXES, with
detachable, reversible BABBITT BEARINGS,
interchangeable with graphite, SIDE VANE and
MULTIPLYING SPRING GOVERNOR.
The internal type of gear is recognised by
mechanical engineers as superior to an external gear
in at least two respects. First, twice as many cogs
in mesh. Second, noiseless. These features secure
strength, long life and satisfaction—all that is obtain-
able in gear transmission.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ STOCK THE CHALLENGE WINDMILLS IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES:
TOWERS FOR CHALLENGE WINDMILLS.
4-nost, in 10ft. sections —
20ft.
£9/5/-
Weight—
Gross 3981 b.
Nett 3151 b.
30ft.
£lO/18/6
4851 b.
3601 b.
40ft.
£l2/15/6
7851 b.
6651 b.
Special 30ft. for 12ft. Mill.
£l2/15/6
7751 b.
6751 b.
ILLUSTRATED LEAFLET SENT ANYWHERE ON REQUEST.
CUTTE
The OHIO No. 11 CUTTER and BLOWER, as shown, will DEAL with ALL
KINDS of DRY FEED, as well as ENSILAGE, at the RATE of from 3 to 5
TONS per HOUR. The model shown, the plain-table type, although a POWER-
FUL machine, requires but 5 or 6 h.p. to drive it, while the self-feeding model
needs no more than 6or 7 h.p. The OHIO No. 11 is STRONG and DURABLY
built, and is fitted with two knives of high carbon steel which retain their cutting
qualities. OHIO BLOWERS ELEVATE MORE ensilage per horse-power than
any other blower. The reason is plain. The same shaft that receives the power
from the engine carries the cutting knives and the blower fan.
No. 11 Cutter and Blower, with two 11-inch knives, cuts 1, 1 and 1 inch. . £25
Fitted with Self-feeding Table
Prices are for machines complete,
with Blower and Hood.
7in. Galvanised Pipe, in 6ft.
lengths, 1/7 per ft.
The OHIO No. 13 STANDARD FEED and ENSILAGE CUTTER is also
a NECESSITY on an UP-TO-DATE FARM. The good points which a farmer
looks for in such a machine are these —STRENGTH, DURABILITY and SATIS-
FACTORY OPERATION. The OHIO No. 13 contains all the latest IMPROVE-
MENTS, and is in EVERY WAY RELIABLE. From 4to 6 tons of ensilage or
from 2500 to 3500 pounds of dry feed can be cut per hour. By substituting
shredder blades for the cutting knives, perfect shredding may be accomplished.
With two knives it cuts 1,1, 11 and 2 inch, and £, 1, f, and 1 inch with four
knives. The speed is from 450 to 600 revolutions per minute. The train of
feed-gear pinions, clearly shown in picture, vibrate as the feed roller raises and
lowers, yet their movable bearings maintain the respective distances to each other
and keep the gears properly in mesh without friction, which gives a uniform motion
to the roller. The backwardly-inclined motion of the upper roller, as it raises,
assists in taking hold of the feed, and this, combined with other good points, makes
these machines strong feeders. Price dB 17/10^
A
ANTHONY HORDERN &. SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiimiiiiimimimiimmmiiimimii
& mr
m
:
liiitliiiiiiiitfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimfiiiiimiKimiiimiiiiiiiiaiii
Shotgun Shells
“Leader” and “Repeater”
For the high flyers, or the low flyers,
“Leader” and “Repeater" shells have
the reach, spread and penetration.
Their great sale is due to these qual-
ities, which insure a full bag. Use them
in your gun. To be sure to get them
.AS-ET FOR THE W BRAND
'
%
vs,
V/
7/a
%
y/M
m
rm
%
m
vy,
7/,
m
m
K
m
mm.
m
waterman’s
FountamPen
The
.ever Pocket
Self-Filling
Ideal)
—the pen you will
eventually buy .
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, ChclJer.Corner, ISgland.
Australia: Hakold D. Dixox, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
ise lever, immerse nib,
lower lever and the-
pen is filled.
THIS is the simplest, safest,
quickest and best self-filling
device in fountain pens. And
it is to be had only in Water-
man’s Ideal, the World’s
Best Fountain Pen.
Get this pen and no
other if you want
a self-filler.
Other types:
“ Regular ”
and
“ Safety.”
—
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Hint-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every posf brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Store;
throughout A ustralasia.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
gp* ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
Ain CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The Dad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravislier of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
7ht marA ofsuperior
me tor carservice
rx
i
♦v
'
rVv>
TTiemarA ofsuperior,
im o forjear’sert/t'c#
What a Hupmobile Demonstration Will Do
w
CAN demonstrate to you that a car of the greatest comfort—a
really luxurious car—need not necessarily be costly to buy nor
to maintain.
It wouid be difficult for you to imagine a car that rides more easily than
the passengers.' ° W provides more completely for the comfort of
curled 1 hair inc^ es , thick ’. made of genuine leather over
curiea nair and the most resilient cushion springs we can buy.
oversize § tvre the semi-elliptic springs—long and almost flat—the
oversize tyres confer a riding smoothness that is not excelled.
moderate h* 1611 you + know th ey are to be had at a
ably low P quahty considered—and at a maintenance cost remark-
Hupmobile Models- 5-seater 7 seater 2 * , “MOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
mmsmrnmmmmmmrnmmmm
* sneio ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation
Detroit, MicHigan, U.S.A *
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
Geelong.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
' ,OTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
■o™i™:r^« ; zztr on '


Actress Tells Secret
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a wfell-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment : “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum and a small box of Orlex Com-
pound. These ingredients can be bought at
any chemist’s at very little cost. Apply to
the hair twice a week until becomes" the
required shade. This will make a grey-
haired person look 20 years younger. It is
also fine to promote the growth of hair, and
relieves itching and dandruff.” —Advt. [1
SaTaHM
TRADE
MARK
Ideal Hunting Knife-
rand Safety Axe
Two articles indispensable to the
comfort and ofttimes the safety of outers.
Examples of the practical worth of
MARBLES Sixty Sporting: Specialties.”
Marble’s Safety Axe
—the handiest tool a sportsman
ever carried. The nickle plated,
spring - hinged guard, lined
with soft lead, protects the blade
andfolds down into the handle. Blade
of best tempered steel. Slips easily
into your side pocket where it is out
of the way but always at hand.
Marble’s Ideal Hunting Knife
is just the all-round knife you need. Es-
ng uses,
sel.
; yo
pecially designed for all hunting
Made from the finest cutlery steel, care-
fully ground and tempered. Every knife
guaranteed. See these goods at your dealer.
, We will gladly COT7^j ete
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Av.,Gladstone, Mich. ,U.S. A.
, Cable Address “Marble" Gladstone
Australian and New Zealand
Representative
HARRY MOLDEN. Box 1349.
SYDNEY
I
. '■
Guarded
Pleasant and
Easy to Take.
Cinnak
Quick & Certain
in its Action.
NO WATER TUMBLER
OR SPOON 18 NEEDED.
CINNAK
Cinnak is a delightfully refresh-
ing powder with strong anti-
septic properties, which at once
relieve colds, huskiness and nasal
catarrh. Cinnak cures and pro-
tects. It can be taken anywhere
at any time.
PER TUBE 1/6
ALL CHEMISTS.
53
'ferja Jell Ikte
I£c store ijclur
•*(cur u>;*|§
i
or B. A w
WALNUT
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
BOr**UNGTONS
miSH Mosi
Sold Here
& 1860
"Ihave sold it for over soyearst
BONNINGT
IRISH
Sold Her*
191/
m
says the retailer ” and there is
nothing in my stock that 1 can
more conscientiously recommend
for coughs and colds than Benning-
ton’s Irish Moss. For. over half a
century it has been the standard,
never-failing remedy, and the public
have set their seal of approval upon
BOMIfIGTOfIS
IRISH*MOSS
It acls like a charm in cases of Whooping Cough, Croup, Coughs and Colds which
are the children s worst enemies,
bt sure it s Bonnington’a.
Always keep it handy Summer and Winter, but
Large and Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
TOBACCO KILLS!
m
\&<p
A
(f
■JZ
7
Face to Face with Deal *■ f
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp, and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together with
our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. H. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “1 was a hard smoker for thirty
years, but since taking your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
• Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
This Name is the Word of
Honour in Tyre Making
ON every Firestone Tyre there is stamped
the name of its maker, H. S. Firestone,
President of the Firestone Tire and Rubber
Company of America.
This name is your pledge of personal re-
sponsibility for good service. It is your
assurance that Firestone Tyres have that
toughness with resiliency which gives you
long and easy riding on any kind of road.
We endorse their quality and recommend
them, under all conditions, for best and
longest wear.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney,
New South Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria;
and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Ltd., Brisbane,
Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wei
lington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for
Illustrated Literature
\
\
■},
f'
i
\
X
&
*35)
Nc*
s
a
/*$
$
£
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heimweh.
We shall not miss her merchandise
Nor for her Art make moan,
Her Kultur, based on lust and lies,
Shall be as never known ;
Yet loth we part with one sweet word
That like a lone star gleams,
That every wandering heart has heard —
The Heimweh of our dreams.
And when her harsh and hateful speech
Dies with her guttural guns,
When free lands gather each from each
Their weary, war-stained sons.
Two syllables of Teuton mould
Shall blossom and not die,
Because within their breadth they hold
All manhood's homing cry.
SCOTLAND.
WILL OGILVIE.
The Dream.
I had a dream, a dream
That filled my heart with darkling fears
And froze my blood’s slow stream
And shook my soul to tears.
I, ’mid the multitudinous spheres,
Was left in space alone, alone
With not a thing to call my own —
Left where no sweetness might intrude
To cheer my utter solitude.
No longer could I hope or smile,
Or pray for yet a little while.
Or catch a gleam
(So sad my dream)
Of aught in which I dared believe.
Oh, dreadful dream ! I can conceive
No other ill like this, whatever evils taunt
me. ...
I dream you didn’t want me !
And then I woke, and laughed
To find you sleeping by my side
To bless these eyes. I quaffed
The joy of you. “Denied,”
I said, “all state and pomp of pride,
Still mine this gentle treasure is.
And mine these delicate ecstasies.
While she is mine I care no whit
For Fame and all the farce of it.”
And as I spoke, you. sleeping, stirred,
While in the honeyed dusk I heard
Your heart’s soft beat.
And so, my sweet,
You, murmuring, woke and gazed at me;
You sighed, and I, enrapt, could see
Your bosom’s fluttering grace. Ah, fortune
has not missed me....
For, wordless still, you kissed me !
N.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.
Transports.
Slaves, purple, peacocks, apes and ivory !
How long till Retribution’s tide-race roars
Above man’s greed, and Ocean’s caverned
floors,
Like hollowed hands, hold Love’s poor
tragedy ?
How long? How long?. .. .0 bitter years to
be,
Since on grey Carthage Scipio’s flashing oars
Launched javelined storm, upon the world’s
wan shores
Sat never grief like this beside the sea!
Without the Heads the lean hulls take the
roll
Of the Pacific, and the smoke-trails swart
Like hooded pythons crawl across the bay.
Ah, God! Each trail, each hull-down ship of
grey,
A red drop welling from Australia’s heart,
A slow flame falling from her splendid soul!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
A Letter from the West.
Indeed. I am not formed for this called
love —•
The fluttering lids, swift glance, eyes drooped
again,
Lips cooing through long kisses as a dove,
Soft roseleaf palms ever of male palms fain.
Unversed am I in softly winning ways,
Untrained in song and dance. Unbent my
head
O’er broidery silks while soft the lamplight
plays
About my hair thridding its brown with red.
For I, like all the women of my race,
Am clean of limb, straight-backed and fear-
less eyed—
That blueness laughing from the lean brown
face
Jested with suffering even as they died.
My grandmother—she looking straightly
down
From that old portrait on my mother’s wall,
The toast of all the wits of London town,
The belle of every rout and country ball —-
Fled over seas to him, her own heart’s lord.
He who had lunged a death-thrust at the
laws
Of tyranny, to find a broken sword,
A broken soul in Ireland’s holy cause.
Unskilled in labor, from the soil they wrung
In bitter sweat and toil their daily bread ;
At what poor tasks her high, proud songs
were sung,
Though nightfall found her faint with hands
that bled !
Such will I be to you, not toy, but mate!
Fll work with you, and should at any time
You stumble in the blackest pit of fate,
My hand will be in yours to cling and climb.
But I whose brown wrist never knew a
glove,
Wim shoot and ride as straight as any boy,
I think I am not made for this called love!
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


i
m i
v
“Keep the Home Tyres Turning
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD ALL STATES.
Are You Indifferent
to the merits of the “Perdriau”
Tyre?
Is Your "Indifference”
due to your not having a proper
conception of all the good points
that are embodied in these Aus-
tralian-made Tyres?
Only the very best PARA RIBBER is
used in the tread, which contains more
rubber than any fancy-tread tyre.
The COTTON DUCK is the strongest
procurable, and the plies have such per-
fect adhesion that they will not come
apart even though the tyre should meet
with an accident and be run with a
liner.
The BROAD, HEAVY 3 RIBS of the
PERDRIAU are far superior to studs or
projections of the usual non-skid tyre.
They grip the road with a flat surface,
and, meeting it evenly, the PERDRIAU
rolls over rather than rubs against it.
Less rubbing means less wear, less wear
means more miles, more miles means
greater tyre economy.
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
“^3
*
zf
This last reminder must be sung of tasty
“REX” CAMP PIE.
’Tls made of meat—the choicest bits.
Just buy a tin and try.
Fog'g'itt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex" Hams and Bacon;
PacKers of “Rex” Pore Food Produces.
PRUNING SHEARS.
Gaffy’ S Patent Keen Blade
The merit of these Shears consists in both blades having:
cutting: edges, hence a perfectly clean cut of even stout
twigs can be made; the bark is not crushed nor buds
injured.
ALSO IDEAL FOR SHEEP’S FEET.
Price
7/6
EACH.
Postage 6d.
If a tool is found defective, it will be exchanged.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney
if
Q
You can rely on
Martell's, which for 200 years has proved its sterling;
quality both as a beverage and medicinal spirit.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY
The whisky
that delights
men who know —
THORNES


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1953.
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1917.
Price 6a
“GUESS WHO IT IS, BILL.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the 'White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for r i he
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER*.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Ihe
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
oil Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manage f.
Special Xotiee.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the .
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
:part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the ‘‘Correspondence” column atl
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Klack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction. or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., .}.} 1 /fastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and l) Streets, San Diego, Cal. : Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 768 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — ]i’. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — H hitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
JOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Ul. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Boz., Id,; Sioz. to JOoz., 2id.:
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each
additional toz.
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1917.
THE HORRIBLE INCONVENIENCE
OF WAR.
The inescapable fact that has to be handled
is that war is in full blast. In the face of
this stupendous reality, spinning words
about the Voice of the People, and the mon-
strous cruelty of war, and the iniquity of
Capitalism and Kaiserism and Militarism,
and the Realities of a world undisturbed by
ev r en the existence of armies and navies, and
about all the rest of those finer ideals to
which the human heart and mind respond
with unerring faith in their ethical truth,
gets perilously close to banality. Labor papers
and many alleged leaders of the Labor
movement in Australia appear to con-
sider that by denouncing Capitalism and
protit-mongers and war in all its aspects
they can in some vague way help to bring
the fearful tragedy to an end and push the
cause of universal peace forward. The Bul-
i.etxn takes the liberty of thinking that the
most humble man in khaki is doing more
every day of his life for the protection of
Light and Truth and Justice than all these
others will do in years.
Suppose it be granted for a moment that
the war is due to the machinations of Capi-
talism. And suppose, further, that the mass
of men and women loathe war and want
none of it. Well, what then? Shall the
man in London, or Paris, or Sydnev or
' ,‘ucago say that, having arrived at conclu-
sions about the root cause of the war and
the unpopularity of slaughter, he has
reached the end of the section and there is
nothing r in ore to be done except make
speeches.' The idea is preposterous. Trans-
lated from a rule of personal conduct into
one of national policy, it would have meant
llie early triumph of those very principles
or influences which the peaceable citizen
wants nothing to do with. When the Ger-
man armies marched a million strong into
Belgium and France three years ago sink-
ing songs of victory, how did the poilu assist
Capitalism and prevent the spread of Social-
ism by seizing his bayonet and rushin" to-
wards the frontier? If he had not inter-
cepted the visitation he would certainlv have
retained his health and strength. Germanv
would have attended to all the rest, including
his capital. Though the Belgian and the
Frenchman may have detested war and earn-
estly desired to live in peace, how could they
have avoided war when a neighbor arrived
thirsting for gore? If they had refused to tight
for their own country they would have had to
light for Germany against the first, person
who had spirit enough to hit back. If they
refused to fight then, a bullet would have
ended the controversy. So the grave was
waiting whatever happened, and the voice of
the people who wanted no war would have
been drowned in the loud, triumphant shouts
of the people who rejoiced in it and wanted
more. The man who thinks that universal
peace would be brought nearer to reality
through the domination of Europe and there-
fore of the world by Prussia is blind in both
eyes. There was and is no choice before the
peoples attacked by Prussia except to either
fight or become the conquered helots of a
brutal despotism. Neither Capitalism nor
Socialism, neither distaste for war nor lust
for war, had anything to do with the matter
at that stage. They all vanished from the
picture, and the issue before men and women
on one side was whether they would bow
down to tyranny ; on the other whether they
could by force put their tyranny in the
ascendant.
The fact is that this war is trying the
temper of men and of nations as they never
were tried before, testing forms of govern-
ment, putting the acid on racial characteris-
tics. showing to mankind the distinction
between the shibboleth and the principle.
And Australia, in common with other coun-
tries, is finding out in the agony of the time
how much easier it is to dream of to-morrow,
which somehow is always permanently there,
than to do the real work of the day which is
always here. When Germany sprang out to
rob and slay, not only to throttle armies, but
also to extinguish nations and ideals and cus-
toms. the world looked on with horror and
dread. Such of it as could and would sprang
to arms as it had done many times before in
the long human story of resistance to oppres-
sion. No voices were raised then in Germany
on behalf of people who did not wish to quarrel.
Their job was to lie down. No one in Aus-
tralia started to yell that it would be all
right if France abolished Capitalism before
the enemy reached the Marne, or that if the
Commonwealth leaped into a whole-ln >g
Socialism the enemy warships in the Pacific
would be matters of indifference. But the
fight has been hard and long, and it is easier
to talk about the irrelevant and the obvious
and wallop the horses that were dead as
mutton a generation ago than to keep on
toiling at the contract really in hand. All
the talk conceivable about ’ Capitalism and
Socialism and Militarism cannot alter the
crux of what Australia is faced with. Either
the Allies must continue to try to defeat the
German armies or not. Either the w*<v is
for the protection of the countries attacked
or it is.not. Either international peace can
be obtained by overpowering a military caste
intent on conquest or not. But in no case
can the thing be done except by fighting or
evaded by confessions of faith in social
theories. . While the German Socialist is
fighting like seventeen devils for Capitalism
or whatever it is. the theory that Australians
can expect to live in peace and quietness if
they unanimously declare for Socialism and
have a plank in the platform objecting to war
is ridiculously out of focus. In all these
theories about securing peace by resolutions
and expletives the conduct of the other fellow
is invariably forgotten. Australia’s conduct,
as that of France and America, is determined
not by words or by theories but by the Ger-
man, and there. is no way of getting over that
except by fighting him, nor any sure way of
making it a permanency except by beating
him thoroughly. s
THE MONTH OF FASTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
inis July moon, which looks down on a
warring Christendom, shines also on a nrav-
insr and fasting Islam. Fifty million pairs
of eyes in Africa and two hundred millions in
Asia are watching its slow growth and wane
and will feverishly await its resurrection
nke a curved and gleaming sword, at the end
f-dth a^»a an ‘ u ot SIDCe the Crus; " l «'s has a
i.uth had such a symbol. As the nro-
cession ot fasting days goes by, marked by
the slow changes of the moon, the people
-low dry-eyed and excited. There is -i
tenseness in the atmosphere. The whole
night through the villages resound wtb
chorus': ' on ° roUS voices cha "t the Koran in
'‘ These . are fhe signs of the Book , and of
the perspicuous Koran. The time mag come
alien the unbelievers shall wish that then
had been Moslems Buffer them to eat and
enjoy themselves tn this world; and let. hone
srzv'fe-.. »*' "“■» M
peculiar holiness marks them for a sterner
penance, lie prostrate till the morning The
messigit is alive with prayer. g ‘ lhe
fiere« T f HONG S r? ce is with a sort of
st itHe n He 1S heroi cally holding his
spittle, tor nothing may enter his
neither food nor drink, ‘nor the juices of' the
lignttdli. Aow are the nights of the hi-
moon. Down by the sea is soft laughter in
the pauses of the wind, and brown naked
figures in the white surf, and the moon lies
Prophet Tt t6 ?hii ik h f he White j uba of the
th l s P „i s h,i t Jll , i “ s h l 0 “X Sf i“ n an
of evil spirits. The ghostly goat-herd
of Sukawideh. who shows merely as a vast
blotting-out of light, and who shepherds his
Hock with his severed head, will not Am®
the streets for many a blessed night The
women enter the sea naked and ?ome oat
the sick whole and the whole with ! ■
taint.v of continued health a cei-
to the waist, and besides the seruban orth*
behi " d ™'n»t "mo„MS s W^
Rante-peak. 11 is eyes are fixed and glov\ ing
and bis lips move in constant prayer. Lne
train thunders past at his heels without dis-
turbing the concentration of his gaze, lne
light dies out of the sky; ghostly white mists
creep down from the foothills; the frogs,
crickets and lizards begin their hissing, bark-
ing and humming chorus; the devotee re-
mains on his couch of stones. Late at night
he is still there.
Flowers are floated off the end of the
Boom as offerings to the pagan God of the
Tideways. Some weak son of Islam creeps
out at night and places offerings of sumboja
blooms on the shattered shrine of Buddha,
half-swamped in jungle by the post-road. The
last day of the fast sees old, primitive cus-
toms revived, clothed in the orthodox gar-
ments of Mohammedanism. A vast crowd
gathers on the great square in front of the
messigit. The vividness of the scene is not
paintable in words—the green carpet of
grass, like the praying-mat of all Islam
spread out under the sun ; the crown of
waringin trees; white- walls of the mosque
and the Regent’s palace; a background of
mountains so high and immense as to make
the broad plain appear like a picture held in
the hand ; the little people moving about like
a bed of many-tinted flowers stirred by the
wind. A stately procession of miniatures
comes into sight and winds slowly round the
borders of the plain. Each figure bears a
ceremonial umbrella, each more gorgeous
and flower-like as the rank of the holder in-
creases. The end of the bitter fast and the
rising of the “better moon” are at hand. A
priestly astronomer stands at the top of the
messigit-tower, gazing towards Bali-peaks.
We watch from between the pillars of a tiny
guardhouse. A very old and venerable haji,
in golden turban and long, gold-emhro'dered
robe, stands watching with us. His hands
are trembling and his eyes shine with the
light of an inward enthusiasm. The pro-
cession halts and the crowd pauses in
anticipation. The palace cannon roar four
times with vast belching of white smoke, and
the great drum of the messigit booms slowly.
Rain begins to sprinkle. The old haji
borrows a cigarette and smokes with fam-
ished eagerness. The bitter month is over.
Now follows the month of marriages and
the new year. The deep note of the gandrong
quivers on the air ; rapt crowds follow the
fortunes of Hindu Rama in the wayang-
wayang; there is perfume of kenanga and
chempaka, flowers of faith and hope, about
the streets; atmosphere of music and sweet
odors in which the fierce words of the Pro-
phet of God jar like a discord :
“The striking! What, is the striking!
And what shall make thee to understand
how \ terrible the striking will be? On that
day men shall be like moths scattered abroad,
and the mountains shall become like carded
wool of various colors driven by the wind."
When the Sheikh-ul-Islam a few months
ago proclaimed from Constantinople the
Holy War, a great hope rose in the German.
He saw in fancy a fine cutting of Christian
throats, the disruption of the vast Indian
dominion, the massacring of a thousand
little English communities of men and
women in Britain’s scattered colonies. But
nothing happened. The loud cry from S.
Sophia fell on deaf ears or on ears that
would not hear.
Here in Java the people would not carry
the sword of Islam as far as Bali. The
Shias of Persia are the bitter enemies of the
Sunnis of Turkey. The Mohammedans of
India are split into a hundred sects. When
Sultan Selim stole the Khalifate from Cairo
and took it to Constantinople he hoped to see
Stamboul the spiritual capital of Islam, as
Rome had been of Christendom. It was
never so except in name. The holy places lie
in Mecca and Medina, and it is thither the
vast yearly pilgrimages of a hundred races
bound together by the one faith proceed. For
centuries Turkey faced with her lone sword
the entire Christian world. She fought the
fGht of Islam then. Yet she failed to rally
the Moslem peoples to her banner. Even
less is she likely to do so, in this present
quarrel, of the “old German god” and his
llohenzollern prophet, against the civil-
ised world.
Pan-lslamism is still the dream of the
visionaries of 250 millions. The .Tchad, the
Holy War. is preached in a thousand
bazaars. The lymphatic Malay discusses it
languidly in his football clubs: it ra ! ses
faint echoes in the mosques of China. Yet.
the fierce, proselytising religion of
Mohammed is the only dynamic faith on
earth. Ihe Arab missionaries who spread
it live, not like Christian missionaries,
in stone palaces, but in the huts of the
natives. It has swept like a bushfire through
Afuca. In India it is increasing faster than
Hinduism. China, whose faiths are all dead
could be swept by any living flame. Some
Hay a new prophet may arise. His symbol
will be ready in the sky. Ilis time will be
the fastmg month ; and this same July moon
ma.i be the portent of another world im-
m^ Va i ‘ T H ' P v r b ' d for universal conquest
leadership. 3^0 ’ bUt Turkey not havl its
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The National and Individual Aspects
of 2d.
It was announced last week th-Ti
of “small savings” had been invested in war
loan Under the conditions prevailing
e C °nomic -Since
are wasting millions and SngThe'hTur?
there is something wildly ; • e
th/dtiSJ
the flood of rising nrioes tw BB i 8 Wl , th
saves what he is ZitJv
Mill tumble into the ditch And \.
"ational cash-bo* is pKjerii
tutcd authority, ouly the most frivolous of
the population can suppose that thp n
nionweaith must look t»economics in
suburban eottaye for the preset™, io„
national solvency. The word “thrift” was
never ho grossly, abused as it is in Australia
to-day. when Governments and coteries of
men who have fattened on the proceeds of
public extravagance appeal to the mob to be
"more careful” —this to men and women
who, in order to live in decency, have to per-
form miracles of economy every day in the
week. It is not through any such foolery
as this that the Australian people are going
to collectively weather the storm that is
coming. Our national well-being turns
wholly upon production, on cutting out the
cause of the frightful wastage reflected ih
our imports, and in the protection of the
public revenues and estate from political
bushrangers. An Australia producing an
extra million is incomparably better off than
an Austral : a accumulating a million by
“small savings” and handing the proceeds
over to reckless vote-hunters. Ao casuistry
about the relationshin of individual thrift
to national economy, nor platitudinising about
the improvidence of Bill Smith and his
missus, can get away from that. Still, there
is something about it all for every individual
to consider, and that Bill Smith will be a
wise man who begins to consider himself
now. In the case of a shipwreck it is best
to be on dry land and read the story in the
newspapers. In the event of being part of
the catastrophe a lifebelt is handy. If
Smith and his family contract the saving
habit they will have a lifebelt. And they are
going to need it. Heaven only knows w'hat is
ahead of Australia in detail. But there is
nothing more certain than that the golden
days have gone and something like a bliz-
zard is not far away. It is only the feather-
heads and the blind who expect anything
else. The economic position of the country
is bad. and is not made any better by telling
lies. The thing called “our prosperity” is
resting upon sand. Now. where is Bill
Smith sroing to find himself w’hen the bliz-
zard strikes him and Australia faces the
stern job of keeping ruin at bay by work?
The Bulletin suspects that he and his
neighbors are in for a bad time and that
every dollar he saves in the interim will
be handy. So, though individual niggardli-
ness will help Australia not at all. the
more frequently a citizen retains the casual
sixpence for future use the less acutely is
he going to miss it when coins may not be
so easily captured.
The Sanitation of the Bark Yard.
T. M. Glynn, Minister for Home Affairs, js
a.vused of being on the verge of making a
policy statement regarding the Northern
Territory. It. is time Australia heard about
the matter, for if there is anyone who under-
stands what the national policy is in rela-
-1011 ° * lO * )a< ‘k this paper has been
view discover him. Therefore, with a
this ~iHn . i nf suc h assistance as it may in
t lour - The Bulletin suggests
, K th '" he ™.v succinctly—
attemnH™ C ” n,ll,Qnweillth is supposed to be
attempting , n the Territory.
" bat has been done.
| has . not been done— and why.
trvij.n. , U ls ’ exactl y. that the Commonwealth is
cr.'Jtig to tlo now.
what 'meL 1 - 4 ,P roposes to . S p t the work done and by
whether i/ic 6 C ° nimunit T "ill be able to find out
money g S anything or nothing for the
definite T 1 ° Uly . l)laoe himself up to be
traii-i initrbf e ® e P° mt « the citizens of Aus-
0/ things B Ad t fb bo ” in to B et the hang
17 vears' 11 the - v know now is that, after
treiiie ,-iifK 1 * 9 mmonw ealth would find ex-
dual , remirlY 1“ Pacing a single indivi-
is not one dispute that the record
every forecast* gross as to justify
Dciv'irtmonf - 1 !? ue< ? from the Stinking Fish
is a ,L 1? t IM.I?nS l M. I ? n S a S°- ‘The Territory
ffardhu? it Q ® ,,oas *h l lity. The obligations re-
has been shW^a* 101 * 6, Kvei T one of them
raided tn l ant * *be Public cashbox
Zsf n!°,i! U, !r the e . vasion - And. what is
sterilised' ’ IL U e hl , lc Pagination has been
a ‘Vo, Mouthfuls of whirling words
integrity of the
substitute " hlte Australia” are no
policy of / ■* 1e prosec ution of a practical
policj—of doing something to give these
To England.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O England, at this solemn hour,
When like a wave thy gathered might.
Dilating where the war-clouds lower.
Towers poised on its imperial height:
When watching nations wondering ask:
“What fabled warriors hath she bred
For greater grows as grows her task
The English spirit we thought dead?
The legends of our ancient sires
Breathe round her their heroic tires,"
I see thee roused from wofdly aims
By cries for succor, sounds of dread.
Bush forth as with a roar of flames.
Thy swift protecting wings outspread;
I see thee sore assailed by foes.
Thy countenance set cold and pale.
Yet brighter shine as shower the blows
Thine eyes that never once did quail.
Du toemen saw with dull despair
Iby stature strengthening everywhere.
I see thee pause, then, heaving slow
Like thunder-cloud throughout its length.
« trike, volleying on thy furious foe
The righteous vengeance of thy strength :
1 see war’s billow rolling vast
To thundering break, and far on high
lake eagle on a driving blast
Thy banner sweep to -victory,
scattering like wind-blown spray
Thy toes huge masses melt away.
1 rru thee mo °d s of sadness feel
i iat humanise thy countenance
And springing from their blood-stained steel
A radiant Belgium. God-fired France:
I see thee sheathe thy ponderous brand
"•i\ r S , red banner’s firmly furled,
A ’ w \ t l . welling pity stand
The Mighty Mother of the World,
scarce conscious of thy laurelled crest—
-1 h/; dear, dear Eng’and Siiakspeare
blessed.
N.B.W.
ARTHUR BAYLDON.


phrases meaning. They may easily become
shibboleths, or, indeed, degenerate into
obstacles to the realisation of the ideas
which gave them birth. The Bulletin
long ago began to suspect that this was
happening—that too many people imagined
that White Australia was merely a matter
of plentiful talk or a phrase behind which
they could play some furtive game of their
own. Later events have confirmed this sus-
picion. White Australia may thus be stran-
gled by the crowd which has made the term
a political yelp. What do we hear of the
Territory nowadays? Practically nothing
except that some small union or the other
has held up this or that job; practically
nothing except the dreary details of small
sordid struggles about dirt-money and the
like. Who ever felt stirred to go into the
great North by anything lie has heard or
read about the Territory during the last few
years? Yet it is only by appealing to the
imagination that Australia will ever make
good up there; there will be no hope for it
until the Territory can make its call to the
pioneer and take its place in the public
mind as a country where there is work and
adventure for full-sized men.
♦
The War and a Vote for Fritz.
It fills in time to talk about the war lasting
until Germany pays indemnities, or flings
the Kaiser off the premises, or sets up a
democratic form of government. But it is
best to keep in mind what our troops are
actually fighting for, and what the soldiers
of France and Russia and other countries
are out for. Their job is to defeat the Ger-
man armies. They are not in the trenches
to fight for indemnities or to get a vote for
Fritz. To prolong the war a day for these
purposes would certainly be futile and prob-
ably impossible. Democracy may get a push
forward in Germany through the war. and
that will be a fine thing: but not many
European Governments would be prepared
to continue the slaughter in order to democ-
ratise the Reichstag. Billjim dies the
death of a hero when he falls trying to give
the German a prod with a bayonet in
France. lie would die something else if he
ever fell struggling to get him on the electoral
roll at Stuttgart. If the enemy can be
induced to move back to where he came from
it is possible that he might offer some mea-
sure of restitution. To do so would be
cheaper than maintaining his armies and
being industrially hamstrung. Also it might
be cheaper for the people who were asking
for restitution to provide it for themselves
than to continue spending about £50.000.000
a week in trying to get it from someone
else. The prolongation of the war. its fear-
ful cost and the terrible toll of blood are
tragic realities which cannot be obscured by
hot air. Australians have therefore two
delusions to guard against. One is that the
war is over; the other that, besides fight-
ing to resist an attack on the world’s free-
dom. their soldiers are political missionaries.
Fntil the day comes when tin l German, being
satisfied that annexations are impossible,
quits his conquests, neither Australia nor
any Allied country will have won the war or
anything else: and thinking about Fritz's
vote and other things that were not in the
picture at the start is not going to bring that
day any nearer. Democracy in Germany
has no more to do with the present disturb-
ance than with the wheat pool. The Hun sit-
ting in arms over thousands of miles of con-
quered territory is the crux of the business
in hand. While he sits there it matters
nothing whether he intends to be a democrat
or not.
Ireland.
More than a year ago a mad but astonish-
ing fight was put up in the city of Dublin.
The chief cause of that outbreak was the
folly of the British Government, which had
continued an anti-Irish policy in opposition
to the advice of every man who knew the
situation, and in defiance of its own legisla-
tion. which should then have been in opera-
tion. The Dublin fight appeared for a
moment to have taught the English leaders
a lesson ; but as the months dragged by it
was seen that things were being conducted
very much in the old way. After a long
delay an Irish Convention was proposed
which seemed to have possibilities; but
apparently the delay had been fatal, and the
thing which might have settled the difficulty
in 1914 was received with scorn in 1917.
The Sinn Feiner says, naturally enough,
that England has never instituted Irish re-
forms except under the pressure of sheer
scare. Grattan had 100.000 volunteers
behind him. and got his short-lived free Par-
liament; and Parnell had brought the busi-
ness of the English Legislature almost to a.
standstill by methods of determined opposi-
tion before' Gladstone and his followers
were converted to the Home Rule they
couldn’t carry. The lesson has been too
striking to be missed : if Ireland wants some-
thing she must frighten England into grant-
ing it. It is the thing which English mis-
rulers have been so careful to teach. So
the ugly prospect of Ireland in arms grows.
The Irish leaders who have pleaded for
national patience are losing grip. William
Redmond, brother of the Nationalist chief,
died a hero’s death in France fighting for
England. If there was any seat that might
have been expected to be held by the Nation-
alists it was his ; but the Sinn Feiner had
an overwhelming majority of the votes polled
at the by-election. From the point of view
of an English Carsonised Government, it is
an alarming result. Last year 2000 Sinn
Feiners —most authorities say the number
was even less —put up such a fight in Dub-
lin as has hardly been equalled in the whole
war. and did it while lacking ammunition
and arms. What might be the state of
affairs if 200.000 Sinn Feiners fought with
the same resolution and skill? Would the
shameful bolstering up of Carson and bis
I’lster noise at the expense of decency and
the pledged word of the House of Commons
then apoear worth while? Ireland —Sinn
Fein ami all —can still be England’s best
and most loyal friend. ft is an amazing
madness that forces a kindly-disposed oeople
into the position of an unwilling but very
dangerous enemy.
Rural Labor and a Bomb.
Having recovered breath, squatters aud
cookies are making an infuriated protest
against Justice Higgins’s award for station
hands in the recent claim by the A.W.U.
The development is not unnatural, for the
ruling 255. a week lias been bumped tip to
4Ns. There have been other solid advances,
but it is the case of the station-hands that
has caused vitriolic criticism of Higgins in
every club where rural Fat or Lean pre-
dominates. The amazing thing about the
business is that when the ease was in the
Arbitration Court the squatters’ counsel ad-
mitted that they "could not contend that
the industry could not pay the increased
rates proposed.” Wool, beef and mutton
having brought record prices for the last
couple of years, the pastoralist has coined
money. Furthermore, the award is not set
for a term, but can be revised when abnormal
conditions cease. These things probably ex-
plain why the loud-voiced objections now pro-
minent were uot put up in the court. Ex parte
statements made outside are in any ease not
sufficient to prove the injustice of an award
based on sworn evidence with both sides
represented. That much being admitted, the
business is nevertheless disquieting. The
award technically applies to some 200
respondent pastoralists who can probably
well afford to pay the rates for the time
being. But in effect it is going to hit up
thousands of men who are on a very differ-
ent_ wicket. Very many wheatgrowers run
a few sheep. What chance have they of
dodging the new award? Won't their
hands reckon they should be paid the
station-hand rates? What is a station or a
station-hand. anyhow? Further, wheat
cockies, whether outside the award or not.
will have to pay more to get labor, and that
will be a tough pronosition just now. If
the station-hand is worth 4Ss., what will
the competent farm-hand expect to get? If
the award and the accompanying increase in
rural pay could stand, it would be a big
thing for the primary industries and create
a class of rural labor ahead of anything so
far available: but it looks a shaky proposi-
tion at present with produce being stacked
up in Australia for lack of ships. It cer-
tainly makes it all the more imperative that
flie farmer should co-operate and cut out
the parasites that now feed on him and
mostly get far fatter than he is himself.
Russia, Its Revolution, and the War.
A shipping-manager, formerly well known
in Australia, but now settled in Petrograd,
writes about Russia and the Revolution
No doubt you have often wondered why the
Russians have not “got a move on.” Well, the
events of the past four weeks will have given you the
answer. The old regime was weighing heavily on
the country’s efforts, and did not give the people a
chance to carry on the war as vigorously as they
wished. Now that it has been removed there will be
an improvement, though it is very much to be feared
that the Revolution has come too late to make good
the disastrous shortcomings of the former regime.
It is a thousand pities that the clever, energetic,
and, above all, honest men who form the Provisional
Government were not appointed Ministers three years
ago. The war would then certainly have taken quite
a. different course for Russia, and there would have
been no need for such violent changes as are taking
place in the political and social structure of the
country, thereby upsetting military organisation,
discipline, etc. The new Government is coping with
the extraordinary difficulties of the situation in a
manner which deserves nothing but high praise.
Fortunately it is supported by ail classes of the
population, and may be expected to carry the coun-
try safely through till the “Constituante" Assembly
decides about the future form of government.
During the Revolution there were two or three
rather exciting days, with much shooting of rifles and
machine-guns in the streets, between the soldiers and
armed citizens on one side and hidden policemen on
the other ; but, speaking generally, the whole thing
was finished before people had time to find out what
had happened. I was three times under fire myself
—that is, I happened to be walking along the street
with crowds of other people, when all of a sudden
one or more shots were fired ; then there was a panic
and everyone sought cover, while the soldiers and
armed citizens fired away, more or less at random,
in the direction of some window or other whence
it was supposed that the first shots had come; after
which a search party was sent to every house in the
street, and the crowd reappeared as if nothing had
happened. Sometimes armored motor-cars and
machine-guns were brought into action, and during
three days hundreds of military and requisitioned
private cars, filled with soldiers and laborers, etc.,
hunted for the police. As a matter of fact, the police
were the only enemy, because they were the only
force behind the old Government, and this explains
why the Revolution went off so quickly and quietly.
Everybody seemed happy and satisfied about the
downfall of autocracy, so there was no difference of
opinion and no need for any quarrel or fight or
bloodshed.
Of course the Revolution is by no means over Vet;
the great political and social struggle between
parties and classes is still to come. For the present
the war and the waiting for the “Constituante” are
having a quietening effect. Anyhow, it is a most
interesting time to live, and, espei ially after my
Australian experience, I am very anxious to see how
“democratic Russia” will compare with its antipode.
«,
Maoriland and the Married Man.
Having enlisted all the married men who
cared to volunteer and called up practically
all the single men eligible for service, the
Maoriland Government sees two things. One
is that the ravenous beast War is still
devouring armies, and that if the professed
intentions of Parliament as expressed in the
Defence Act are carried out, the drafting of
married men will soon have to commence.
Neither circumstance is making Government
or Parliament feel happy. Two courses are
open: to go ahead to the bitter end ; to sit
down and Examine themselves in the light of
cold fact and the wider comprehension of
what the country is tangled up in—the wider
comprehension that has been gained since
the Defence Act was passed. The scheme
adopted by Maoriland rested upon concep-
tions of the war’s duration which experi-
ence has shown to have been hopelessly
wrong. To continue it, without, at any rate,
being satisfied of the capacity of the country
to do it and escape ruin, would be a singular
revelation of nublic mulishness. Compul-
sory service does not require a nation to do
more tliau it is able to do. It is a rational,
expeditions method ol' raising ait itovv
big that army should be, and how long it ean
continue to be reinforced at a fixed rate,
must obviously be determined by the
national strength, the national productive-
ness, and the circumstances of the hour. On
all present appearances, the European dis-
turbance is going to persist for a long time
yet. It may be within the ability of Maori-
land to keep going as she started. It is
possible that it is not necessary, from the
military point of view, that she should. In
any case, the Parliament of the country
ought to be put in possession of informat on
enabling it to decide the matter intelligently.
Aviation v. Militarism.
“0.K.” : As an early advocate of aerial cam-
paigning. who predicted long ago that this
war must practically be won from the air
if it is to be won at ail, I want to support
lawyer Joe Woolf in his contention that
retaliation would he Britain’s best policy as
regards German bombings of London. As
for The Bulletin objection that “the with-
drawal of men and machines from the Front
to kill German children would not help to
win the war, but might certainly help to
lose it,” why withdraw men and machines
from the Front? My plea is for the aeriali-
sation of warfare. Granted that the Allies
could not afford to withdraw men and
machines from the Front for the bombing of
Berlin, they could still build thousands of
other machines to do it, and the men would be
available all right. London is experiencing the
horrors of war. whilst Berlin is only feeling
discomfort. Why? Because the British are
not prepared to retaliate in kind. To the
Huns in general we appear as a race of
frivolous sports incapable of turning our
passion for athletics to practical warlike
account. Berlin naturally assumes that the
English are taking their punishment lying
down for lack of strength to hit back. Each
fresh story of a successful raid is to the
German public an assurance that triumphant
Militarism can use squadrons of aviating
bomb-droppers as a picturesque aid to its
sublime national purpose, whereas a few
devastating bombardments of Berlin would
persuade the stricken inhabitants that the
fate of Militarism is sealed —that millions of
drilled troops and forests of big guns in the
future would be futile protection against
invasion from the air. Thus far in the world’s
modern history war has been waged by
nations whose political heads mostly stood
no personal risk of slaughter. The Kaiser,
for instance, calls himself a soldier, but is
the last man iu the business likely to die of
soldiering. Hindenburg is one of the next-
least likely. But under an aerial system of
warfare carried to the extreme limit, no
slacker would be safe, no politician free
from dread as he stood and spouted at the
patriotic-banquet table. Why is it that the
contestants all-round have refrained from
utilising this new and long arm of the service
for all it could, will and must accomplish?
Because it was not in the game when the
war-makers learned it. Because it strikes
in a way that puts old-fashioned Militarism
to confusion. America, having no military
party to bluff her intelligence, no sooner spoke
of going to war than she started to talk of
winning it from the air. IIow? Not by
attacking an army that is dug into foreign
soil, or by killing rival aviators, but by per-
sistent methodical bombing of munition fac-
tories where non-combatants of both sexes
are at work ; of railway stations and bridges :
of towns where tens of thousands of workers
are turning out cannon, and cities where the
cocksure linns are patiently waiting for a
happy ending to all their afflictions. The
non-squeamish Yanks will not talk of repri-
sals. though they may draw comparisons
between the bombing of warlike Essen, or
blatant Berlin, and the torpedoing of the
Lusitania. They will follow German aerial
warfare to a logical conclusion. They will
play the enemy’s game, and Gon grant they
will hurry up about it!
♦-
Labor in Fiji.
“A. F. Thompson” puts another view:—
Air. Osborne, writing on labor in Fiji (B.
7 /6/’ 17), speaks about the Indian women and the
way they are treated. Tt is true they nearly all
go. to work in dirty clothes; but see them on a
festival day—dressed in silks and sateens of all
colors, with their heads, necks, arms, ankles, fingers
and even toes covered with jewellery!
On board ship the men and women occupy differ-
ent parts of the vessel, and are not herded together.
Landed here, they are first taken to a depot, where
they are allocated to the different estates by officers
of the department. On arrival at their estate they
are rationed for six months, such ration costing the
planter 3s. 6d. per unit. The coolie is charged
with 2s. 4d. and the planter pays the balance. The
usual schedule of pay for the plantation eoolic is as
follows: —■
Sardars (mostly free men), from £1 to £1 10s.
per week ; 2nd sardars, from 12s. to 15s. per week ;
field hands, Is. per diem for task or day work; pony
ploughmen (ind.), Is. 3d. per diem; buggy ditto
(ind.), Is. 6d. per diem; cook-bovs (ind.), up to
10s. per week. Free men, field hands. Is. 6d. to 2s.
per day; ditto, cooks, up to 15s. per week; ditto,
buggy ploughmen, 13s. 6d. per week; ditto, cutting
cane, 15s. per week. Indentured men, cutting cane,
13s. per week.
The women do only light labor, such as weeding,
planting, applying sulphate of ammonia and harvest-
ing Mauritius bean. The bean (the vine) is always
ploughed iu and never cut and packed. The laborers
leave the lines at 5.30, start work at 6 a.m., break-
fast at 8 a.m. for 20 minutes, and have one hour
for lunch at noon. The best labor finish their task
daily at one or two o’clock and sometimes earlier.
Mr. Osborne inferentiallv condemns “the task.”
Now a task is what a coolie working fairly well
would take six hours to complete. This definition is
set out in the Indian Ordinance. The coolie, it must
be remembered, hates day work. The task is his
own plan. By it he sees that he can climb to the
position of farmer.
The Indian woman is not badly treated. When
she becomes pregnant she is given leave in the lines
for one month before and five months after the
birth of the child- No working woman in Australia
can say the same. The lines are under the control
of the Immigration Department.
When the new coolie arrives he is cringing and
servile, and mostly smells almost as foul as the
Norton Griffiths contract. See the same man or
woman a few months afterwards and what a differ-
ence! It is most interesting to watch them change
as they find out that they are in a country where
castes go for nothing; where they are not, as iri
their own country, exploited by an unscrupulous
jcniidar or used as a spittoon by the higher-caste
Indian. When the C'.S.R. Co. decided to lease its
estates to the best of the overseers, it made a wise
move and changed everything for the better. As far
as the coolie is concerned, he knows he is working
for a man who understands him and his language.
A few years ago no excuse could he found for the
manner in which the coolie was treated by some
overseers, who evidently thought the indenture sys-
tem was founded on stonsh. Of moral laxity and
ignorant of the language, they did more to bring
the system into disrepute than anything else has done.
But conditions have so changed that, when Indian
labor is forbidden, it will be a black day for this
colony and for the happy and contented Indians
who come here under the system.
“Koreki” : The wooden-headed Lies* of the
Defence Department is really pathetic. Here
in this Bananaland district (and elsewhere
for all I know) drafts of Garrison Artillery
are being made np to relieve the men
stationed at Thursday Island; and though
the Commonwealth is admittedly short of
skilled engineers, the Department cheerfully
takes apprentices in the last few years of
their apprenticeship away from their trades
and sends them on duty that could easily
be performed by unskilled lads. The Amal-
gamated Society of Engineers has_ protested
against the stupid practice, but without any
effect. On the other hand, in one of the
biggest wireless stations on the coast the
authorities have some thousands of pounds’
worth of ultra-valuable machinery. Yet
they send a man to take charge who is not
a mechanic, and never saw an internal
combustion-engine adrift in his life, and
expect him to be able to repair and keep in
running order this valuable plant, the break-
down of which would probably cause dis-
aster unthinkable at a critical moment! The
pay for this mechanic works out at under
£2OO per year, and is a lot under the Wages
Board rates for the district. A skilled
mechanic applied for the job and was
offered £156 per year with allowances, which
works out at about 10s. per day, Sundays
included, with no overtime allowance. The
ruling rate for this district (Wages Board
rate) is 16s. 6d. for eight hours and double
time for Sunday. Protests have been lodged
in this ease, too. and likewise with no
results.
Tije Vic. P.L.C. Conference, having in its
Repatriation scheme decided that all soldiers
omnloyed by the Government must join their
respective unions, next carried a motion
that compulsory military training should be
abolished forthwith. In other words, it
should be compulsory for a man to fight for
his union but not for his country. But why
didn’t the delegates go the whole hog and
decree the abolition of all rates, taxes and
charges? If a citizen has a right to enjoy
the liberties his country offers without hav-
ing to defend them when they are attacked,
lie has an equal light to ride in a railway
train without paying a fare. Why not carry
these things to a logical conclusion?
When the N. S. Wales Government bought
itself out of the Norton Griffiths iniquity
for quarter of a million, Griffiths told the
London papers that the syndicate hoped to
resume its relations with the State at the
end of the war. Heaven preserve us! There
was a small clearing job to be done ahead
of the North Coast line, and it was being
done quite well by a junior engineer at about
£350 a year. But two other engineers were
on hand —they had been sent to Australia
to do other work which the Government
wasn’t ready to go on with —and those two
men were unloaded on to the same job at
about £l4OO a year. So the work that was
being done for £350 a year cost N. S. Wales
£1750 or thereabouts; and the syndicate col-
lected about £B7 per annum commission in-
stead of the old £l7 10s. It wasn’t the syn-
dicate’s fault: it was all in the bond. So,
as the Crown Solicitor found out. was the
provision under which the syndicate col-
lected commission on the value of free rail-
way-tickets supplied to its officers and of
free postage-stamps supplied for its office
use. Now Norton Griffiths hopes to
make another contract with the Government.
And why shouldn’t he succeed? No politician
has been punished for making the first one.
Parliament hasn’t put on even a policeman
to inquire into it. Both parties just winked
and went on.
It is not merely for the sake of the terri-
tories themselves that Germany is so anxious
to recover the lost colonies of the Pacific.
Professor Preuss, a director of the German
New Guinea Co., contributed lately an
article to the Hamburg Naciirictiten in
which the cat’s whiskers showed out of the
bag. Germany must have those possessions
for two reasons: (1) to better enable her to
make mischief between Britain and Aus-
tralia. the U.S.A. and Japan;* (2) to main-
tain naval bases so that the commercial door
of the Pacific (including Australia) mnA
never be slammed in Germany’s face. “It
would be an unforgivable and irreparable
mistake if we were to abandon our South
Sea colonies.’’ said the Professor, “because
at some later date we shall have to be pre-
pared to come into conflict with these
Powers.” This frank confession will have
to be hammered into the British mind, appa-
rently. At any rate, Lloyd George, with a
surprisingly weak grasp of the subject, lately
indicated that the wishes of the residents
must decide the future control of the
colonies of which Germany has been tempo-
rarily dispossessed. If in times of peace a
German had got the custody of the keys of
Woolwich Arsenal (and stranger things
happened), would Lloyd George say that at
the end of the war it must rest with the
German himself to decide whether he shall
be given the keys again—that if he wants
them he must have them?
At the annual conference of the Vic. P.L.C.
the president ventured to prophesy that
“after the war there would he a determined
effort on the part of the democracy in every
country to ensure a lasting international
peace.” The worst of it is the effort will
have to succeed in every .country. Ger-
many’s hope of “vorld conquest.” for ex-
ample. rested on the growing demooratisa-
tion of the rest of Europe, and the hope is


INCREASED STRENGTH FROM
PHOSPHATE.
SPECIALIST TELLS HOW TO DOUBLE
STRENGTH AND ENDURANCE.
A great authority on the subject of health,
strength and endurance, in explaining the
marked increase in strength and endurance
obtained from the use of the product known
among chemists as bitro-phosphate, claims it
is due to its recognised nerve-building pro-
perties. He says, and it must be admitted
that his logic is unanswerable, that, inas-
much as the muscles simply transmit power
derived from the nervous system, strong
nerves and a big reserve of nervous energy
are infinitely more important than big mus-
cles. Bitro- phosphate, not being a drug or a
stimulant, but a nerve-builder which supplies
direct to the brain and nerves the required
phosphoric elements, was first prescribed by
physicians with marked success in the treat-
ment of neurasthenia, insomnia, nervousness,
debility and mental depression. It was soon
noticed, however, that, in addition to perma-
nently relieving nervous disorders, it also
greatly increased strength and endurance.
The amount usually prescribed is one 5-grain
tablet with each meal, and, in view of its
comparative inexpensiveness, those who wish
to increase tlieiT strength and endurance, as
well as those who suffer from nervous dis-
orders. are strongly advised to give it an
immediate trial,—Advt.
Stud Poultry— Complete breeding pens
—Orpingtons, Langshans, Leghorns, Wyan-
dottes (6 selected first-year hens and
cockerel), £4 per pen—coop provided and
rail freight paid for 300 miles. All prize-
winning strains. Big, vigorous mountain-
bred birds. Cockerels ready for mating
(including Rhode Islands). 15s. each. Strain
and age guaranteed.— Westmeade Farm
Medlow Bath.-r-ADVT.
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
I ,f Y , ear8 ’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A. Sewing MadineCo
9
gSgS^gi
©
‘ v*x :
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
Insure with AUSTRALIAN
SOCIETY LIMITED.
MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
?^?. d Office: Corner Pitt
** King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: SOQuee..Streep Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
?Xd? SURANCES EFFECTED.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. * ENTS< EQUITABLE DEALING.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager,
not blighted yet. Given a completed chain
of democratic workers’ associations for the
purpose of ensuring peace on earth, the chain
would be no stronger than its weakest link.
Swelled-headed Germany is the weakest
link ; and in a multitude of non-conscripted,
democratic nations an unregenerate Germany
would have a soft snap. No international
combination of workers could ever stop one
well-equipped army of invaders by striking
for peace and singing hallelujah. Common-
sense knows that Germany is the crocodile
on the bank of the beautiful river that flows
by the throne of Democracy. The P.L.C.
doesn’t.
Never Mind about the Side-show.
To interpret the “fall” of Bethmann-Holl-
weg as an indication that Kaiserdom is in
the last ditch is merely to make a bad guess.
Actually the militarists and ruthlessism are
more firmly in charge than ever, and the depo-
sition of the Chancellor represents the tri-
umph of those who for a year or more have
agitated against him on the ground that he
was not sufficiently frightful. But really it
is all immaterial to the main argument.
That is simply whether the German armies
are going to remain where they are or not.
If the Kaiser wants peace he can get it by
tnoving his troops or by announcing a readi-
ness to agree to terms acceptable to his
enemies. Until he does one or the other the
war is the only thing worth thinking about;
and it can be taken as quite certain that the
Prussian is thinking about nothing else.
Most of his earlier dreams have been aban-
doned, but not all. He still hopes that the
war will give great advantages to Germany.
And it is childish to say that, as the thing
stands to-day, those hopes are without justi-
fication. Between defeat and victory there
is a vast difference. It cuts both ways.
That Germany is not yet defeated is for us
the great outstailding fact of the hour. There
are reasons to hope that the job may be
finished; but we would be blinding ourselves
to plain, hard facts if we refused to see that
the German has plenty of excuse for enter-
taining other ideas. Yarns about the hard-
ships suffered by the German people, about
Hollweg’s precarious position and distrust
of the Crown Prince and all the rest of it
were current a couple of years ago. Yet the
German armies are still in the field, and are
not only offensively active but were the
winners in the majority of recent engagements.
The German at home still says, “Hang on
to what we have got.” While this is so, what
else matters except the problem of the
trenches and the submarine, and maintain-
ing the same resolute front as the other
fellow ?
South Aus. has been finding out that, bad
as a two-party political system is, a three-
party is worse. Premier Vaughan and his
19 Assembly members failed to come to any
agreement with Peake and his 23 in Opposi-
tion—-though apparently nothing blocked a
coalition except the determination of each
side to have the Premiership and a majority
of Cabinet seats. Hume Cook! went over
on a “holiday” (at which pretence the Adel-
aide papers openly jeered) and tried to
bring the two parties together, but only
made things worse. All this time the old
original Labor party sat back. Re-combine
with Vaughan it wouldn’t; combine for
the moment with Peake to shift Vaughan
it didn’t have to. When Parliament met,
Peake summarily moved the adjournment of
the House. Of the four U.L.P. (official
Labor) members Denny is in France; the
others—the veteran Kirkpatrick, young
Price (son of the former Premier) and
Edwards, a newly-arrived member—walked
out. Coneybeer. of the 19, is in the
Speaker’s chair, and the Vaughan Govern-
ment was outed by 23 to 18, after being in
office for two years. No time was wasted.
The “sudden-death” system, introduced by
Holder, Kingston and Playford in ’93,
though regarded as rather shocking at the
time, is the usual thing in S. Aus. now when
there is no doubt about the numbers.
A cry from the farthest mulga :
We are 200 miles from a railway and the same
distance from a telegraph-station on the busiest
stock route in S. Aus., viz., from Hergott Springs
to Birdsville, the main route out of Western
Bananaland. There’s a fortnightly mail service—when
it runs. This route has been opened up for over 35
years, but S. Aus. has never been able to raise
enough to put a telegraph or telephone service
through. Somehow they can always raise enough to
rush a tramway out to a new suburb. You see the
suburban pioneer can chew the ear of an M.P. or
two; the man who is pioneering the North can’t. Tf
these most elementary conveniences are not supplied,
how in Heaven’s name does Australia think the
North is going to be peopled? Yet one postal
official declared that he did not see what we
wanted any mail at all for. I can hear him squeal-
ing if he was cut off for half a dnv. They sent a
mob of commissioners out here some 12 months ago
to pick a route for a proposed railway. I think -it
was to lead into some politician’s back yard. That
trip must have cost them a few bob, but they did
not speak of running' a cheap telephone line through
to go on with. And as the politician has left, they
don’t talk about the railway any more. Honest, who
is this country run for? Is the business managed
and the money borrowed in the interests of the
politicians or for the benefit of Australia ? We
wouldn’t “rouse” only the latest “muiga’ is that
they are going to cut us down to a monthly mail
service after Christmas. We’re away out on the
Edge now. For the Lord’s sake, don’t let them push
us over!
Archibald Peake comes back into the Pre-
miership of South Aus. with a small but
workable majority which may probably
carry him through till the general elections
next March. He was allied with the mild
Labor Premier, Tom Price, in 1905, in turn-
ing out the Butler Government. Since
Price’s death, however, he, has been on the
other side; and Butler becomes Treasurer in
his team. “Dismal Dick” will combine Rail-
ways with the Treasury, leaving Bice —
another experienced man—to add Marine
and Mines to his Public Works. George
Ritchie, authority on River Murray ques-
tions, is Crown Lands, with Agriculture.
Barwell, the only lawyer available (and
a coming man, anyway), becomes Attorney-
General. The Education billet falls to
David Gordon, the old newspaper man who
left the Register staff to go into the Fed-
eral Senate, and he combines with it a new
sort of portfolio for Repatriation. Peter
Allen, the humorist of Green’s Plains, is
Government Whip, and Laffer is named for
the Speakership if Coneybeer should resign
it, though it is said that no pressure will be
brought to bear upon him to do so.
The Vic. P.L.C. Conference, just concluded
at Melbourne, in drawing up its private Re-
patriation Scheme (the 123rd, or maybe the
237th), decided that “the State must pro-
hibit work in excess of 44 hours a week, for
the purpose of providing all with employ-
ment.” But why insist on 44 hours? Why
not 40 or four? There being always a fixed
and limited quantity of “work” in any coun-
try, it is obvious that if the workers’ hours
are limited to four per day there will be
abundance of employment for all, and a bit
over. It is equally obvious that the less the
workers produce the more money there will
be in the country to pay high wages.
Apparently the N. S. Wales Government
has heard from Holman; wherefore it is an-
nounced that the loan expenditure for the
year may have to be reduced still further —
to £3,000.000. What Willie bumped in Lon-
don probably made that young man feel very
uncomfortable. Just before he arrived The
Times referred to his three million 5§ p.c.
loan at 98. “The Treasury policy of allow-
ing such issues is very difficult to under-
stand,” it said, and proceeded to charge the
N. S. Wales Government with the pro-Ger-
man policy of “spoiling the chances of our
own Government securities.” After that it
couldn’t have been so easy for Willie to pose
gracefully as the head of a Win-the-War
Government.
Of course an Australian was there—at
Fritz’s biggest air raid on London. He was
Flight-Lieut. Wilfred Salmon, one of the
four fighting sons of the late kindly old Dr.
Salmon, of Ballarat. Young Salmon had
got his wings at the Oxford Aviation School,
and had hardly spread them when Death
folded them for ever.
“Edo”: In Westralia the commission in-
quiring into the question, “Does wheat-
growing pay?” usually received a negative
reply, and it came mostly from farmers of
long experience.. Notwithstanding this, nearly
all the Westralian schemes to help returned
men are vague ones for “putting soldiers
on the land.” Whose land? It has been
cynically suggested that local repatriation
committees are largely composed of men
anxious to sell. How about a small inex-
pensive inquiry into that matter?
Another record will certainly be claimed
now for S. Aus., which will have, in
Vaughan and Denny (who is already in
France), two ex-Attorney-Generals in the
firing-line.
“Balance”: Since the conviction of a
teller for tapping £14.000 from the till of the
N. S. Wales State Savings Bank (spent, so
he said, at the races) two other Sydney bank
clerks have been arrested for undue enter-
prise. One in the same bank tripped over
£4OO looking lonely, so he also invited it to
the races, where, unfortunately, it came to
an untimely end. The other clerk, in a
suburban branch of a different bank, was
given £2400 one Saturday morning to escort
to head office, but by mistake he brought
up at the same old address at Randwick. It
is common talk that the 14,000-pounder was
a subject of free discussion among profes-
sional punters and bookies long before the
bank woke up to the fact that the sum it
had left lying about the back yard or some-
where was permanently missing.
Groperland’s new “National” Govern-
ment is going to follow the rest and appoint
two women police for the protection of
youth, beauty and innocence in the Perth-
Fremantle area.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ‘‘Canary Cottage”
Criterion ‘‘ Ma , ry Jl oe , S £ irst „
Palace “Look Who s Here
Tivoli McIntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt's Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Mikado
Royal "Grumpy
King's “Peg o My Heart
Princess's “The Story of the Rosary
Tivoli “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” & Vaudeville
Auditorium Scotney- White Concerts
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
■
A few touches of novelty in the revival of
“Mikado,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, makes
the old opera as bright an entertainment as
ever it was. The libellous Jap opera offers
less scope to indi-
vidual voices (bar
Katisha’s) than
any other of the
Gil.-Sul. series,
and for a co. that
is not rich in solo-
ists it is the best.
One of the things
that seemed to
matter in the long
ago was the make-
up of the girls, who
were expected to
look rather like
figures on a Japan-
ese fan. Nowadays
their Oriental dis-
guise doesn’t count
for much below
the head-dress. In
this production
the air of white
racial distinction
is pretty well pre-
served among the
ladies of the
Chorus and the
Three Little Maids
from School; on
the other hand, the men are about as alien
as they can make themselves.
“The Mikado," at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
C. R. Bantock as
Pooh-Bah.
If Villiers Arnold errs in the name part
it is on the side of frightfulness.
Here is a Mikado who features his
savagery. He laughs fiendishly at his
humorous policy of making the punishment
fit the crime, and his mention of boiling oil
or molten lead as a penalty for compassing
the death of the Heir Apparent is full of
ferocity. Perhaps memories of his recent
impersonation of Demon in the “Bunyip”
panto, are flitting about the brain of the
gruesome potentate; anyhow, he is different
from his stoical predecessors, and the change
is good fun. Celia Ghiloni accentuates the
forcibleness of her previous interpretation of
the Princess with a long, lone tooth, and she
sings admirably. Gladys Moncriefif is a
passable Yum-Yum in so far that her voice
rings true in the concerted singing numbers,
and Minnie Love infuses her Pitti-Sing with
the spirit of glad mischief. Her verse of
tuneful testimony to the alleged execution of
Nanki-Poo is neatly done. Roberts is neither
melodious nor otherwise engaging as young-
man Nanki, but his face defies identification
and his legs are effective arguments to stand
upon. The three plump nobles of Tittipu
are Ralston. Bantock and Workman, the
first-named being the comparatively unim-
portant aristocrat whose full baritone makes
an earnest apology for a thick enunciation.
Bantock, as Pooh-Bah. is welcome as he
always is in a part where natural stoliditv
waits on cultivated articulation of witty
words; and Workman gives a genial turn to
Ko-Ivo, who was a tall, cadaverous, rather
cynical scarecrow when Howard Vernon took
out his Australian patent for the part.
Workman rarely tries to be too funnv, and
in two or three places he is the best of
HKos. He suggests the temperament of a
well-fed humorist who had been sentenced to
death for flirting before his sentence was
commuted to an appointment as Lord High
Executioner. He makes some unfamiliar
points, and his “Tit-Willow” scene with
Katisha is excellent. Victor Champion is
conductor and Minnie Everett producer of
a revival which deserves to run longer than
the few nights allotted to it.
One more week of “Grumpy” will be the
last of Cyril Maude at Melbourne Royal.
After Thursday next he will lay no more
complaints against the temperature of the
coffee, nor heap _ imprecations on the baked
apple that has pips in its interior. Nor will
he return to Melbourne with the same co.
a different: play. The advt. declares,
with its hand on its heart, that the pros-
perous Old Man of the Stage will depart
from Australia when his “Grumpy” tour is
completed. Therefore late-comers are ex-
horted to hurry up if they want to hear him
go to sleep.
The nights of “Peg,” at Melbourne King’s,
are numbered to Friday of next week, and
this Saturday will be the last of the
matinees. Peg is still being vainly exhorted
to mould herself on the massive lines of
Ethel; also the supposititious dog-figlit con-
tinues to happen behind the scenes. If the
Taits had only graduated in circus manage-
ment they might have contrived to make
the pups do battle on the stage.
As for “The Story of the Rosary,” at
Melbourne Princess’s, the advt. holds out no
hope of impending dissolution. It lasted 10
weeks in Sydney and is not yet into its fifth
week in the city where Prime Minister
Hughes directs operations against the
Enemy. One of these nights or matinees
W. M. Hughes aforesaid ought to step across
from Parliament House and see how easily
Allan Wilkie and his brother officers win the
war on the opposite side of the street.
The Melba-Cyril Maude matinee at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, in aid of the wounded sol-
diers, comes due on Tuesday next. And
another series of Scotney-White Concerts
begins at the Auditorium this coming Satur-
day.
:>< :Jc %
At Melbourne Tivoli this week Nell
Stewart is taking shelter from the limelight
under the famous verandah hat. She is also
giving her celebrated impersonation of Lord
Jeffreys, omitting naught of the tyrant’s
fancy for violence and snuff. Tom Cannam
makes a change in the third chapter of the
story, having discarded the rags and rhodo-
montade of Percival the actor for the tremu-
lous job of Chief Justice’s menial. Else-
where on the bill the American language is
rife. It issues with most exuberance from
the plump young songstress who inserts her-
self into Ray Trainor’s piano recitals; but
Alf Grant and Alvin and Williams are also
afflicted with accents that are only fit to
drink cocktails with.
$ $
Hoyt’s (Melbourne) are showing a new
film version of “The Vicar of Wakefield,” in
which the handplay of Sir John Hare and
the graceful deportment of Miss Laura
Cowrie are conspicuous features. In the
second half Olga Petrova haunts the screen
for an hour in a silent lecture on the high
cost of loving. The moan comes from the
Metro studio and is entitled “The Waiting
Soul.”
** * *
“The Girl Philippa,” which trailed through
the magazines by kind permission of Robert
W. Chambers, is an eight-course tragedy at
Melbourne Majestic this week. Anita
Stewart is the pretty amateur in espionage
who turns upon the wicke'd Wildresse and
fills a void in the life of the Star-Spangled
hero.
***:(:
Clare Rummer’s delightful absurdity,
“Good Gracious, Annabelle,” makes its exit
to-morrow at Sydney Criterion. A further
consideration of the cast leads to the re-
mark that M. Luke, as a hotel clerk, is so
exactly like a hotel clerk that he could get a
job to-morrow. On Saturday evening Marie
Tempest will be seen in “Mary Goes First,”
by Henry Arthur Jones. Still, Marie would
do that even if the play were by William
John Smith.
After six war-worn weeks. “Canary Cot-
tage” remains a
bright-yellow im-
possibility that
happens nightly at
Sydney Majesty’s.
“Look Who’s
Here” continues to
earn more than
beer and cheese for
Sydney .Tames and
•Tack Waller at
Sydney Palace.
* *
At the Sydney
Opera House the
Gonsalez Co.’s
business has been
good enough to call
for an extension.
Time is up at
Puller’s big theatre
on Friday night, so
on Saturday the
songbirds fly over
to the new Hippo-
drome, a building
hitherto devoted to
buckjumpers and
performing seals. Last week’s bills in-
cluded the finest performance of the
present winter-cough season. This was
Kigoletto,” with the majestic Balboni as
the dashing hero. The co. was down to zero
in a scratch performance of “Tosca” —
hurriedly thrown together owing to Cap-
“The Mikado," at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
C. H. Workman as
Ko-Ko.


6*
pOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
'I
DT
Swift
Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 36/30 Clarence St.. Sydney
A NEW AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
FOR
INSULATING COLD-AIR CHAMBERS AND REFRIGERATORS.
COVERING BOILERS. HOT WATER AND STEAM PIPES.
PICKING UNDER HEAVY MACHINERY, Ac.
HAIR FELT
MADE IN SHEETS, 34in. x 20in. x lin. BALES EACH 50 SHEETS.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, SHIP CHANDLERS.
FULL PARTICULARS AND NAME OF NEAREST WHOLESALE HOUSE
Obtainable from MICHAELIS, HALLEN STEIN & CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD.,
v Manufacturers,
384 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE-
We Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The dyeing is a very im-
portant part of hat-making.
A defective dye will give
quicker in a fur than in
woven fabrics. Knowing the
position re dyes we ordered
hat stocks early, and now can
quote reliable hats at a time
when they are rare indeed.
Fur Felt No. 5.H.5 (illus-
trated) has turned edge, 2}-
inch brim, contrasting bands.
Colors: Medium Grey, Mole,
Slate
14 6
pelli’s indisposition. This Thursday even-
ing a young Australian soprano, Emma
Francesehi, makes her debut as Santuzza in
“Cavalleria.” She studied in Italy before
the war, and owns a fresh young voice.
"I *
Talleur Andrews
is now lending
some musical vari-
ety to the bill at
Sydney Tivo 1 i.
where Ada Iteeve
is still chieftainess.
Her nightly speech
that bri’.gs the
.iineding. fluttering
shower of money
is the neatest little
thing of the sort
that Sydneyites
have heard, and is
well worth the £l2
or £l5 it brings for
the Anzac Buffet in
London. Nikola’s
extraordinary hands
still charm with
their shadow-por-
traits that get so
close to the origi-
nals. are still
awhile before the
lantern, and then
break up into elo-
quent fingers and
thumbs that signal,
“See how easy it
is!” The English
Comedy Co. is now
working on a busi-
ness comedy that
doesn’t annoy, and
the specialist who
plays the meek
office-worm scores
well. Little Lucie
Linda continues to dance like a nymph who
has just got a new award from the Arbitra-
tion Court.
:J: * *
The taming of husbands and millionaires on
Sydney screens this week: —
Crystal Palace : “The Chattel,” wherein E. 11.
Sothern, the harsh, cold husband who runs his home
as he manages his business, discovers that love is a
necessary domestic commodity.
Hoyt’s : “Sowers and Reapers,” in which a fact’ry
’and, married and deserted by a son of wealth,
wreaks revenge by becoming a film star and expos-
ing the deserter on the screen ; “The Broken Melody,”
more domestic discord, with Martin Harvey respon-
sible for most of it.
Lyceum: “The Millionaire Vagrant,” in which a
silver-tail takes a spell in the slums and discovers a
new use for cash and spare time.
Dead in Maoriland, Duncan Rutherford,
big pastoralist, big man and big sportsman.
He was owner of Leslie Hills, an immense
sheep run in the Amuri, weighed somewhere
about 20st., ran 6t't. up, expanded Bft. side-
days, and owned at various times some of
the finest of southern jumpers. Three top-
notchers were Alma and Norton (’chasers)
and the great hurdler Kulnine. all winners
of Grand Nationals. Rutherford had a mania
for supplying his horses with political names;
and when in the long ago W. P. Reeves
called all big landowners social pests, Duncan
took the tip. and Social Pest won the Grand
National Hurdles at Riccarton in ’1)8.
“Seeseed”; “Devilfish” is quite wrong
when he says (B. 5/7/’l7) that the Hobart
wireless station is not a success. There is,
in fact, no better working station in the
Commonwealth. Its only defect is what
operators call a “screen” to the westward —-
that is, a patch through which it is difficult
to get a message. But how many stations
can “Devilfish” call up that haven't a screen
in some direction? If he says that Mount
Wellington is responsible for the Hobart
station’s defect, how does he explain the
southward screen of a station like Perth,
which is far away from any mountain?
Probably these screens are caused by atmo-
spheric "pockets of ionized ether, but nobody
knows for certain.
“Wondai”: In 1903 I was in camp at
Wellington (M.L.) with D Battery. Field
Artillery, when our trumpeter quoted Kip-
ling’s “Snarleyow” :
And when the smoke had cleared away,
Beneath the limber wheels
There lay the driver’s brother
With his’ head between his heels.
“Don’t,” said my mate. “That might hap-
pen to one of us some day.” And, though we
all laughed then, actually the man who
recited the lines has died in almost the posi-
tion described. He was Bert Griffiths, well
known in the windy city for his remarkable
likeness to the late N. Bonaparte.
Charles Atkins, the 57-year-old Melbourne
councillor who went to England to do his
bit in some sort of war work which he
couldn’t get in Australia —-is nowadays on
transport duty at one of the ports, and the
old seaman ought to suit the job to the last
button.
Ashton Jarry in the
sketch, “A Matter of
Business ,” at Sydney
Tivoli.
THU SYMROLID DRAMA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m often at the theatres
To see the players act.
I’ve thither gone for many year—-
For thirty-five, in fact.
And of the villain’s doings much
I’ve learned by dreary rote.
He’s bent on theft, and rape, and such,
If he turn up with hasty touch
The collar of his coat!
’Tis then you may look out for storms
For foul and bloody deeds,
For stolen documents, and forms,
And other cherished screeds;
For wickedness in darkness done
With knife or poison cup
Is ne’er by any chance begun
Until the scowling evil one
Has turned his collar up.
In every drama, too, I find,
Where picture-actors pose,
The heavy villain, if entwined
In ordinary clo’es,
When deeds he meditates of woe
Must give an extra thrill
By- turning up his collar so.
Then all the pulsing people know
That he is dressed to kill.
A fine symbolic play I’ll fix
In which we shall present
With all the known dramatic tricks
Each phase and incident.
What Sikes, Macbeth, and every cuss
Of fell theatric note
May stand for we’ll make obvious
By turning up with little fuss
The collar of a coat!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The triumvirate of the Bert Bailey
dramatic organisation has now become a
council of two, Edmund Duggan having sold
his interest to his partners, Bailey and
Julius Grant.
Dorothy Gard’ner, the Dunedin lassie with
the twinkling legs and the wrinkly smile,
who was one of the brightest things on the
Dandies’ programme, has been running a
concert co. of her own in Victoria for the
past five months. She is now on her way
to S’Africa, where she and Mr. Rose—her
Dandy fellow-conspirator—are going to pro-
duce for the Steele-Paynes.
“ Jwosp”: Died at Christchurch (M.L.)
recently, Alfredo Borzoni. Alfredo was born
in Genoa in 1848, and by the time he was
16 had danced into solo rank in the
biggest theatre in his town. Later he was a
teacher at Carguillo’s college, but left the
job to help liberate Italy in a Garibaldi
shirt. He came to Australia with Lazarre’s
and Lister’s opera companies, having married
Venosta, the prima donna of the troupes.
Borzoni as a baritone had small parts, but
he got in some notable dancing when the
chance offered. With his wife he settled in
Maoriland, and they together taught and
performed for 35 years before the partner-
ship was broken by death.
“Harrison O.”: The more I look at Cyril
Maude’s Grumpy the more it seems to re-
semble a series of clever imitations. We get
an imitation of an old gent eating and mak-
ing a noise with his mouth, another of him
sleeping and making a noise with his nose,
yet another of him drinking his first brandy
and making faces as it goes down. All this
is very eleven' but, as art, is it very much
less obvious or very much more difficult
than, say, Bellora’s imitations of bird-calls
and bush noises? A while back Wish
Wynne was doing clever work like Maude’s
in vaudeville and without elaborate outside
aid, but Melbourne Age did not yell that
here was a chance for benighted Australians
to learn something about Art. Cyril Maude
may be a great actor, but I want to see him
in another part before I hail him as any-
thing more than a superlatively fine mimic.
“Cockaigne” : Allan Wilkie’s judgment, on
Beerbohm Tree nearly coincides with mine.
Wilkie, who was much associated with Tree,
says he was either very good or very bad :
excelled in the bizarre and grotesque, but
was entirely out of place in the heroic. He
was a master of make-up—unequalled, per-
haps unprecedented. Like Irving, he was re-
markably generous and careless. Ellen Terry
complained that Irving was too much
absorbed in theatricals. He did not sympa-
thise with the outside world, as she did.
Tree, on the other hand, was the most eclec-
tic of actors. It will not surprise me to
find that he was nearly insolvent. With
characteristic grandeur he gave the proceeds
of several weeks’ revival of the “Drake”
drama to the patriotic fund. In a similar
vein he paid £BO for the velvet hung in
“Ulysses” for the “shades.” Such were his
luxurious ways.
Anzac Day was celebrated at Weymouth,
now a big A.I.F. depot in England, by
(among other things) a first-class Austra-
lian concert. Fred Curtis, Gwennie
Harcourt, Millie Dagmar and dogs (late of
Fitzgerald’s Circus) and the Ascots
travelled down from London to help. But
there was a lot of professional talent already
in camp. Bandsman Quigley gave a song,
“Come Back to Australia,” written and
composed by himself; Lieut. Revenall, late
of a Williamson co., recited; Payne, late of
the Australian Quartette, sang; and in a
farcical sketch of a Cairo restaurant, written
and staged by Lieut. Maas, the waiter was
Klimo, who not long ago was on the
Mclntosh circuit.
Charles Wenman, just taken into the
.T.C.W. firm in place of the late Howard
Ashton, is a son of the Wenman who did
good work for many years with the stock
company at the London Haymarket. There
were no blanks in that old Haymarket co.
Every member was a clever, adaptable
mummer, and Wenman, though never a star,
was one of the best.
“0.K.” : Mario Majeroni was in Melbourne
the other day—on a film, wearing a beard
and looking the image of bis late father.
Both of the Majeroni boys have been in
America for years; but whereas the younger
brother, George, took to film-acting long ago,
it was only recently that Mario drifted into
the dumb-show business. When Greenaway
saw him in Noo Yark two years back he was
only thinking of it.
“Midchannel” : Nothing is more nauseating
than the attempt of the Lord Meagher to soft-
soap Hugh ,T. Ward, of the J.C.W. firm, for
his alleged “services” and his “golden heart.”
What Mr. Ward has done has been primarily
for the canonisation of himself and for the
advertisement of the theatrical firm he repre-
sents. That firm doesn’t possess the snirit
of enterprise even in embryo. It is prepared
to regard Australia as nothing but a dump-
ing ground for imported goods, and won’t go
one inch to encourage local talent, whatever
its merits.
“E.T.” : W. S. Gilbert’s old comedy, “Pyg-
malion and Galatea.” was lately reproduced
at a London vaudeville house —a condensed
version, playing an hour—and took the audi-
ence by storm. The Galatea was once again
the still-beautiful Mary Anderson (Madame
Navarro), who has returned to the stage
principally to devote her salary to war
charities. The Pygmalion was Gill,
who was known to Australian playgoers 16
years or so ago, when he was one of Wilson
Barrett’s “young men.”
“Very Good Eddy”: When Barry Lupino
was at the Victoria, Newcastle, one night
recently a dress-circle patron burst into a
laugh and by a shocking bit of luck her false
teeth dropped out and fell into the stalls. A
vain search was made at half-time without
success. Then a stallite, returning from a
comeandaveasquash, handed over the missing
tusks. He had found them in his pocket
while reaching for his pipe!
“Snell”: “Pegleg” (B. 5/7/T7), comment-
ing on my criti-
cism of Billy Burke
as a picture
actress, says I look
at the screen from
a pro.’s point of
view, and forget
that picture-players
don't care a cuss
for the opinions
of their stage
brethren. I looked
at Billy Burke
with the eyes of a
spectator who ex-
pected the picture
actress to get
effects and convey
emotions, and I
found that she
had won fame and
fortune on the
screen simply by
virtue of a capa-
city to make pretty
pictures. Quoting
Chaplin and Mary
Pickford, “Pegleg”
parades two artists
who have in a
marked degree the
essentials lacking
in Billy Burke.
Both have extra-
ordinary pantomimic abilities. So “Pegleg”
leaves me precisely where I was.
“Melb ” : The appearance of Cyril Maude
and Lady Fitzclarence in “School for Scan-
dal” adds to the history of the comedy in
Melbourne. It was first played in the city
in 1845, upon the second appearance of Cop-
pin at the Queen’s Theatre. Cast: Sir P.
Teazle, Coppin; Sir O. Surface, Rogers;
Charles Surface, C. Young; Joseph Surface,
Thomson; Lady Teazle, Mrs. Coppin; Mrs.
Candour, Mrs. Thomson. The next observ-
able performance was at the opening of the
Theatre Royal, 1555: Teazle, Rogers;
Charles, 11. N. Warner; Joseph, Burford;
Lady Teazle, Mrs. Poole. Again, “School
for ’Scandal” served to inaugurate Barry
Comedian Kennedy
Allen tells some stories
at Sydney Tivoli.
Sullivan's management of the Theatre Royal
in 1863: Sir P. Teazle, Lambert: Surface,
Harwood; Charles, Sullivan; Lady Teazle,
Mrs. Heir. Only once did Melbourne enjoy
the great treat of seeing Rogers as Peter,
with* Lambert as Oliver. Rogers was better
than Lambert as Teazle, but Lambert was
much his superior as Sir Anthony Absolute
in “The Rivals.” Good performances of Teazle
have been given by Cathcart, Rankin and
Wilkie, and of Charles Surface by Charles
Warner, Titheradge, Kingston and Bellew.
“Ibsenshaw”: Reappearing as Hamlet at
the Savoy (London), H. B. Irving is giving
a reconsidered reading of the part in yet
another new arrangement of Shakebacon’s
text. “II.B.” remarks in a programme “in-
troduction” : “It is perhaps hardly realised at
the present time what a large number of
people have never seen ‘Hamlet’ at all.” Bard
idolators, resenting Irving’s cuts and bowd-
lerisms, aver that they’ll never see it in the
present revival.
“Norbell”: The late Wilson Forbes “held
the book” for Mrs. Brown Potter and Ivyrle
Bellew when they toured North Queensland.
In the Towers they were doing “La Tosca,”
and Forbes was duly at his post in the
prompt entrance, punctiliously following the
script. He was as usual sitting down, with his
legs crossed comfortably. Now, whenever the
beauteous Potter was declaiming, Forbes
wagged his right foot in admiration, or sym-
pathy, or words to that effect, so the
delighted miners saw a No. 10 blucher
solemnly bobbing up and down just in front
of the proscenium wing. They watched for
it. Every time the boot appeared they
cheered. After the show the star scornfully
remarked: “The audience was certainly
enthusiastic, but seemed to think ‘La Tosca’
was a farcical comedy !”
Bert Leywood, a comedian who graduated
(with his young wife) at a Melbourne sea-
side show, writes that he is returning to Aus-
tralia at the end of this month with the
Chung Ling Soo Co., which will play under
Fuller management. While in London he
placed six songs with the Herman Darewski
Music Publishing Co., and “if they come any-
where near Darewski’s expectations I hope
to add a nice little sum to my income.”
Darewski is remembered in Australia as the
furiously alert managerial husband of Madge
Temple, who boomed that charming lady as
the best-tailored artist on the vaudeville
stage.
“Barnstormer”: Died lately in England
Kate Bateman, a daughter of Colonel Bate-
man (U.S.A.), who helped Henry Irving to
his long career at the Lyceum. Miss Bate-
man first appeared in the St. James’ Theatre
in ’51 —66 years ago—in a selection of
Shakspearean scenes. She played in ’75 with
Henry Irving, not very successfully, as Lady
Macbeth.
“Invictus” : Being a woman I notice there
is an appalling scarcity of hairpins in Film-
land. Even when the sweet young heroine
leaves school and gets married she cannot
procure enough to do up her curly locks.
Jane Caprice in “The Mischief-maker,”
Mary Pickford in “The Eternal Grind,” and
Jean Sothern in “The Cloud” are only three
instances of picture kids who go before the
clergyman with ringlets over their shoul-
ders. Jean Sothern even starts housekeeping
with her hair down. If a Yank star can’t
be a vampire she has to be a tousled child.
“Nib”: These picture-makers have got a
hide. Running in Australia is a screening
of “Oliver Twist,” and I went to see it the
other night. The film agreed with the book
in very few respects. A glaring error was
the robbery at the Maylies’ house. On the
film Sikes shoots Oliver for calling for help,
whereas, according to Dickens, Sikes jeopar-
dises his own safety to save Oliver, who has
been shot by the butler. What about the cen-
sorship seeing that a movie based upon any
work of a standard author is true to the
text, even if the acting is rotten?
“Norbell”: Mention of Cyril Keightley’s
American popularity (“Exile,” B. 12/7/Y7)
sets me wondering whether that volatile
mummer has yet been cured of his fondness
for practical joking. Rignold put up
“Faust” as an Easter attraction at the old
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, in ’95, and “Keight”
was cast for Siebel. In the prologue he had
to pay a visit to Dr. Faust (Stirling Whyte)
in his garret, and sit on a three-legged stool
beside the fireplace. The next visitor was
Mephisto (Rignold), and Keightley was care-
fully instructed to leave the stool on a cer-
tain mark on the le/t-hand side of the
hearth. The idea was that Mephisto, never
taking his basilisk eyes off Faust, might sit
down on the stool without looking for it.
On that first Easter Saturday night the irre-
pressible Keightley deliberately— he said
accidentally—placed the stool on the right-
hand side of the fire. Mephisto came in, sat
down —heavily (Rignold was a very substan-
tial Devil)—and a holiday-house roared. So
did Rignold later. For the rest of the even-
ing, when he was not actually on stage,
Siebel was in the cellar.
(Continued on page 34.)


-T-i..*
,
THROW OFF THE MASK!
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLACKHEADS, are Ugly
Features. Refined Folks avoid your Acquaintance.
1 will tell Every Reader of this Paper FREE how
Every Blemish can be Removed in Ten Days.
Stubborn cases
have been cured
that bathed physi-
cians and beauty
i-pecialists for
years. You have
never in all vour
life used or heard
of anything like it.
Makes muddy
complexions, red
pimples,
blackheads, freckles, eruptions, vanish almost like
magic. No cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster
bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus, nothing
to swallow. It i.oesn t matter whether or not your
complexion is a "fright," whether vour face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pim-
ples and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and
porey, and you’ve tried almost everything under the
sun to get rid of the blemishes. This wonderful treat-
ment, insist 10 da y s, positively removes every blem-
hh and beautifies your Sk n in a marvellous way You
look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and
tint of purity of a freshly blown rose. In 10 days you
to w,ld admiration by all your friends
A H ivf r «. ha j y i!, ur age or condition of health.
Ti^ 11 etl ?® dB Now Known are Cast Aside.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally
?° < ur f ace, even arms, hands, shoulders, are beautified
beyond your fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely
prove to you before your own eyis in your mirror in lo
dys - This treatment is absolutely harmless to the
most delicate skin, and very pleasant to use No
minutlsdaliydoe^ 1 ° f UvinK necessar >- A few
nfe^sho\^you S
LTe-rte, fis-sawa
CRACE DUNCAN (Suite 52 ), 178 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
Ihis Modern and most Elegantly.
1 urmshed and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
i sner, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
. mertca or the Continent. Bath
buxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
OH, HENRY!
“Why aren't you at the war—are you an
only son?"
"Oh, dear no! There are fourteen of us."
"Huh! Your mother MUST have been fond
of children to have reared you."
Chevron”: Though a French decoration
has been awarded to an Australian Bed Cross
worker, no Military Cross or other war
award had been granted to a Y.M.C.A. man
until it was won in France on April !) b.v
a foi mer Ballarat boy, .Tames Stewart Sum-
mers. Summers, though he held a captain’s
commission in the Canuck Military Forces,
went to the 1' ront from Toronto as a non-
combatant with the Y.M.C.A. lie assumed
more and more the front-area work, and
when the boys went over the top he helped
the wounded as they worked back to the
jnS 116 f rom fh e front line. But there was
difficulty in cleaning up a Fritz machine-
gun redoubt, and Summers, looking over the
parapet, saw so many men lying wounded
in the shell-holes that —well, he just hopped
over with dressings, and dragged back man
after man under fire till the last was shot
dead in his arms and a bullet grazed his faee.
After the redoubt was cleared. Summers
directed stretcher work for a day and a
night, and for two subsequent days led out
relief parties. A Ballarat pal of his, who
also went to Canada, is now in France.
Both men married Ballarat girls before leav-
ing home, and the eldest youngster of each
has been made “class baby” of tin 1 Univers.ty
the fathers attended in Canada.
“Pte. Enterprise”: “Barcaldine” (B.
2S/(j/T7). on the necessity for combing out
the eligibles at 11.0. in Horseferry-road.
London, reminds me that these behind-the-
linesmen almost ate the invaluable Anzac
Buffet out of existence. Of the 8000 or
more per week who visit the Buffet, it may
safely be said that three-fourths are Horse-
ferrymen. Thev should not need assistance
to their meals, for they receive extra duty
pay (45.) and ration money (2s. lOd.), earn-
ing altogether at the least 12s. a day < in-
cluding Sundays) while attached to H.Q,
In spite of that the majority of them j.o
down to Victoria-street in droves, day after
day, for cheap feeds. The Buffet was origin-
ally intended for lonesome Billjims in the
Big Smoke, not for stay-at-homes. Hence
it behoves the now regenerated Buffet to
ask for the production of Bill’s furlough
pass to prove his title to guestship ; so that
a dinkum godsend to the Australian soldier
may be kept going for the men who really
need it.
The military paymaster is still scratching
his head over this: —
Since the departure of my husband, Private
(May It, 1917), I have given birth to my 9th
child (May 22, 1917), and I want to know if I can
claim the allowance.
* * * *
Melbourne’s recent spell of bitterly cold
weather has drawn further attention to the
moss that grows on the Vic.- Education
Department. Even in attempting to carry
out up-to-date ideas the Department gets ail
tangled up in its own red tape and has the
brand-new mixed up with the mouldy. Take
the “pavilion class-room” idea, imported
from the US. A. as a device suitable for a
country o, . unny skies and balmy weather.
Under the U.S. scheme, as a rule, no
pavilion is erected unless provision already
exists for equal vet-weather accommodation
for the scholars. In Victoria repeated com-
plaints have lately been made by parents
whose children have had to shiver through
long, fold foggy days
in flimsy outhouses
walled with perished
canvas and furnished
with draught-holes not
in the original design.
The Department has
so far given these
grumblers the frozen
ear and gone on sit-
ting stolidly beside its
liberal brown-coal fire.
One reason for this in-
attention may bo that
political bosses and
officers at headquarters
mostly draw a screw
sufficient to pay for
the schooling of their
own kids, instead of
having them taught by
the State. The regu-
lations at Victorian
grammar schools and
colleges have been
drawn up with an eye
to keeping parents
fully satisfied with the
arrangements made for
young Percy’s physical
well-being. It is scan-
dalous that, under a
system of compulsory
education, paid lor by
ta f 'on. eoe-Uv fav-
orable conditions
should not prevail at the State schools.
"Roozac”: The dingy Arab with his shirt
tun ot oranges is about the briskest pedes-
trian on earth when there is a chance of
profit flickering over the horizon. Every
Billjim who trained in Egypt knows what
a nuisance the Arab fruit and lemonade
hawkers were if an ambush was being pre-
pared. They followed the troops and alwavs
stood on the sandhills around, thus living
the enemy the straight tip. It generally
took about half a regiment armed with
stones to put the black robbers out of si-lit
One morning the usual tribe assembled out-
side the camp, wondering in which direction
we were going. At 0 o’clock our brigade
moved ofi at the trot. At 10 we had covered
‘M.sht miles, and had just dismounted for a
tew minutes spell when the patrols came
galloping in to say that the enemy’s advance
guard was in sight. Tt took us only a few
minutes to get into position behind some
WARM WELCOMES.
BINGS THE ENIHUSIAST : "Mg wife's a sport. No matter how late I'm home these
nights, there's always something hot wailing for me."
JINKS THE DOLEFUL: "Same here —summer and winter all the same."
large sandhills, and everyone was waiting
to score them off when we saw them turn and
scuttle for cover. “Who gave us away?”
growled the long lines angrily as our pro-
posed victims vanished in the dust. The
answer came from behind in a pleading
chorus of “Orr-ing-ees! Ver’ nice, ver’ sweet!
Two for half-piastre !” “Lemonarto —half-
piastre bottle!” There they were again, the
faithful brutes! They had streamed across
the desert after us, each man carrying from
four to six dozen large oranges in his dirty
blouse or an equal weight of awful lemon-
ade. Eight miles an hour on foot across
sand with shirts bulging with bottles and
fruit, and the whole disgraceful circus
on the skyline in time to ruin our ambush
—only devils could have done it!
The Army at any rate has given up the
old plan of burying its head in the sand!
Nowadays when Billjim goes on furlough
lie is handed a small card. On one side is a
strong admonition to follow Kitchener’s ad-
vice re wine and women; but in case this
fails to impress the young man, the other
side goes into details. It sets out that an
“Early Treatment Depot’’ has been estab-
lished in the courtyard at Horseferry—room
1()0 for n.c.o’s and men, room 101 for
officers. “No names, regimental numbers or
questions regarding identity will be asked.
Treatment is free and confidential. No
records will be kept.’’ There is other infor-
mation and advice, but not a word of re-
proach; just a frank recognition that Bill-
jim is a young, healthy human animal off
the chain for a few days, roaming in a city
where things are likely to happen, and that
his health is much too valuable just now to
risk merely to preserve the nation's old
friendship for Mrs. Grundy.
* * * *
B. : Allow me to introduce the officer
who was in charge of our transport.. In the
Bay of Biscay this pigeon Ihe was of mili-
tary age and apparently physically fit) was
much concerned about the submarines, and
was looking so sick that some of us thought
lie must have had instructions to go into the
firing-line. A\e tried to cheer him by making
light of the danger, but he wouldn’t buck
UP-, “It’s all right for you fellows,” he
Availed. “You only have to go to France.
I’ve got to come back through this.”
“Bushido” : Honorably deign to record in
your illustrious paper the deed of Akaro
Yokeziro, pearl-diver, of Broome (W.A )
which won him the Olarke Silver Medal! the
blue riband of the Royal Humane Societv
The pearling fleet was at work off Cape
Joubert when the life-line and air-pipe of
Hamiguchi, diver, fouled in 102 feet of
water. Another diver having failed to find
him. Akaro Yokeziro went over the side
Searching for five minutes, he found Ilami-
gucln. I hat most unfortunate man's lines
were tangled in a coral cup; wherefore
Yokeziro tied his own life-line round him
and gave the signal to hoist. It was too
risky to allow himself to be hauled up by
his air-pipe: so, unprotected against the
tearing tide-drift, he inflated his diving-dress
in order that he might be borne to the sur-
face. Both men were saved. Yokeziro rising
30 yards from the lugger. If it be permis-
sible in your so distinguished columns, let
the unworthy scribe here write “Banzai !”
* * * *
A yarn from Bill Denny, M.L.A., of
South Aus.. now a lieutenant of gunners on
the Opposition cross-benches in France. An
Australian N.C.O. in control of road traffic
had orders not to permit troops to use a cer-
tain stretch during specified hours. Along
came an English colonel at the head of his
battalion, and was promptly checked. “Do
yo n know who we are?” he snorted. “We're
the Oiiards!” Sergeant Billjim should have
shrivelled to a cinder. But he never even
n linked. ‘I don t give a damn if vou’re the
engine-drivers—you can't use this’road,” he
SHE'D DO IT.
AUNT : "Yes if I were married I'd make my
husband go to the war."
NEPHEW: “Gad. aunt, I believe you would."
FLANDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have loved the song of the summer-time
(For the streams flowed free in Flanders),
In the laughing lilt of the poets’ rhyme,
Of the flower-decked fields of Flanders ;
But every home that has sent its sons
To shoulder rifles and mount the guns,
To face the steel of the war-mad Huns,
Has blanched at the name of Flanders.
There’s a shaded streamlet, willow-lined,
That gently flows through Flanders,
Where flowers of every hue entwined
Nod dainty heads in Flanders;
And the tears of morning laughter shone,
As their incense rose and floated on,
Like a delicate haze ere the shades are gone,
In that wonder-dell of Flanders.
There’s a flash of flame and a thund’rous roar
O’er that peaceful stream of Flanders,
And the sylvan woods reek with savage war
That rends the heart of Flanders.
The slopes where the delicate poppies shone,
Fierce hate-filled war-hosts foug-ht upon,
And Heath laughed loud as the rout roared on,
The red blood dyeing Flanders.
But the brutal heel will one day rise
From the bruised neck of Flanders,
And the Hun who gloats o'er his victim’s cries
Be headlong hurled from Flanders.
For the hour has struck and The Day is done,
Retribution comes to the fear-filled Hun;
The scales have weighed : his race is run,
And the blow will come from Flanders.
FRANCE.
R. C. BARLOW.


••
II
r
A Two-piece Tweed Sports Suit
for 52/6 =5
This Ready-to-Wear Suit is quite appropriate for city
or country wear. It is smartly cut according to the
prevailing style from hard-wearing Tweed in medium or
dark grey mixture effects.
The Coat features four patch pockets (as illustrated),
and the back is neatly gathered into pleats finished with
a half belt.
The Trousers have hip straps and belt loops and four
pockets; gauntlet cuffs impart a finishing touch to the
legs.
Have a Suit Sent to You on Approval.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba.
WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
you good the moment you take it—at any
hour —and cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to ■ assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away ;
you will be yourself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig"—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig"—California Syrup
of Figs—in bottles of two sizes, 1/li and
1/9. ’ [ 2
“Pons”: My entry for the Coincidence
Stakes. The other day an A.A.M.C. man
had his attention diverted by a well-grown
German shell which dived snout-first into
the ground 6ft. ahead and forgot to explode.
The man let the visitor cool off. and later
held a post-mortem. He found that the
shell’s number corresponded exactly with that
on hisr-own identification disc.
EMERGENCIES.
“Heavens! If anything should happen—l’ve
forgotten my spanner."
“ Don’t worry, love —I can lend you a hair-
pin.”
The wretched break-of-gauge on the inter-
state railways, and even inside South Aus.,
is making hard work of the arrangements
for opening the East-and-West line, which
will finally link up all the Australian capi-
tals from Perth to Brisbane. The new line
is 4ft. but from Port Augusta south-
ward to Terowie the old line is only
3ft. Gin. ; thence it is sft. 3in. to
Adelaide and on through Melbourne to
the N.S.W. border, where it turns to
4ft. B|in. Some day the broad-gauge from
Adelaide to Port Augusta (by a different
route) will be completed ; and then that run
could be done in under six hours, and car-
riages could go right on to Mell ourne. At
present it takes more like 12 hours, and, to
save passengers from the West being turned
out of bed at Port Augusta at 4 a.m.. it is
likely that the time for leaving Adelaide for
Melbourne (for 30 years it has been 4.30)
will be about 6.30. Watt foresees that, unless
HIS NOBLE SILENCE.
THE BLOKE WITH THE GUN : “What would yer say if I blew yer ’ead off ?"
CAUTIOUS HOUSEHOLDER: “N — n—not a w — w — word, I as—assure you!"
S.A. and Vic. can “fall into line in the
matter of the 4ft. gauge, which ulti-
mately, of course, will be universal through-
out Australia, there is every likelihood of
their being cut out by a 4ft. Biin. connection
between Sydney and Port Augusta”; and
this “calamity” he hopes to see avoided.
Heaven only knows, though, why it should
be a calamity—except that if the East-and-
West line went on east instead of turning
south at Pt. Augusta, it would miss Mel-
bourne, where Watt’s constituents happen to
be.
“A 1 Vesuvio”: A fire-brigade that would
have delighted the soul of Stephen Crane
(you remember Tuscarora Horse Company
Number Six in his book. “The Monster”)
has its home in the Soustralian township of
Kilkenny, over against the Holy City. The
story of the charge of this new
Light Brigade was toM in the
Adelaide Criminal Court when
two lads pleaded guilty to firing
a haystack. For the defence it
was asserted that before the local
brigade was formed there had
been two fires in 30 years; after-
wards 30 fires in tVvo years. The
story ran that the lads in court
and their cobbers had been in-
cited by members of the brigade
to start fires —they had even sup-
plied inflammable material and
driven the kids to the scene of
outbreaks. Mostly the job was
pretty well done; but it once happened that
the “hooter” was set- going ere the fire was
lit—Nero fiddling, as it were before Rome
had begun to burn.
* * * *
“Kopai”: The pastoralists are yelping
about the latest award ; £2 Bs. a week and
found is going to ruin the industry. I’ve no
doubt it will —if they don’t revise their
methods of conducting it. ‘“Eight-shillings
a day just to dodge about a station,” they
moan—“no station will stand it!” Of course
it won’t; and Australia doesn’t want to en-
courage a breed of men content with £1 a
week for “dodging” about a station. When
I was following up station work it was the
custom to give each man his day’s job—one
job only. The men went to the office in the
morning to get it. The boss then went away
himself, perhaps for the day, looking round
a far paddock or visiting an out-station, and
didn’t return until sundown. A man’s job
might be to muster a paddock. If the sheep
were away in the far corner he got a full
day’s work given him. But often he found
his mob “just across the erik, near the gate,”
and was back in a couple of hours. He spent
the rest of his day squatting on his heels at
the stable or smithy, hindering the black-
smith and making the wood-and-water-joey
feel that he was overworked. He got 3s. 4d
for his day, and earned 2s. So on through
perhaps half a dozen men. At shearing we
grafted; so we did at lamb-marking and
dipping. But for the rest—just “dodging
about’’ out of reach of the boss’s eye. Often,
I believe, to the boss’s relief, because there
was nothing for the men to do in the off-
seasons. The award, at any rate, may knock
out that inefficient, initiative-sapping, black-
fellow kind of existence if it does nothing
else, and Australia will be the better for it.
It will do the pastoralist good, too; he will
have to trust more in himself and less in the
Lord and the seasons.
* * * *
“Brass Plate” : I live in the north of Vic.,
and this appealing war-time ad. is from
our local paper (the soldiers’ death and in-
memoriam notices are in the next column) :
Helping the Hospital. —Arrangements have been
made by a number of young men in the town to
hold a dance in Hall on Thursday evening,
•July 12th, in aid of the hospital. The price of
tickets is Is. 6d. Patrons are assured of an enjoy-
able evening.
Here are the facts, (a) The institution for
which the slackers are to dance has a sur-
plus of several hundred pounds, (ft) Ten
fine young townsmen at least are dead in
Gallipoli or Prance, and five more, who are
crippled for life and past all dancing, are
in town at present, (c) The young men
who are actually getting up the unnecessary
dance include several who are eligible for
active service. A peculiar beauty of the
voluntary system is that it takes —well, you
know the sort that have gone, and leaves
the nation the one-and-sixpenny dancer
* * * *
u !: F ; Born ’: Apropos the duel between Dr.
“Nil” and Harrison Owen over the causes
that drive women to prostitution, the matter
is nowhere more broadly and freely discussed
than in “The Truth About Woman.” by C.
Gasquoine Hartley (Mrs. Walter M. Gal-
lrchan) a work that should be read by
every thinking man and woman. The writer
says:—•
I must in fairness state that I have been compelled
to give up the view held by me in common with
most women, that men and their uncontrolled pas-
sions are chiefly responsible for this hideous traffic.
It is so comfortable to place the sins of society on
men’s passions. But as an unbiassed inquirer I
have learnt that seduction as a cause of prostitution
requires very careful examination. We women have
got to remember that if many of our fallen sisters
have been seduced by men, at least an equal number
of men have received their sexual initiation at the
hands of our. sex. This seduction of men by women
is often the starting-point of a young man’s associa-
tion with courtesans. It is time to assert that, if
women suffer through men’s passion, men suffer no
less through woman’s greed. I am inclined to accept
the estimate of Lippert (“Prostitution in Hamburg”)
that the principal motives to prostitution are “idle-
ness, frivolity, and, above all, the love of finery.”
This last is, as I believe, a far more frequent and
stronger factor in determining towards prostitution
than actual want, and one, moreover, that is very
deeply rooted in the feminine character. I do not
wish to be cynical, but facts have forced on me
the belief that the majority of prostitutes are simply
doing for money whut they originally did of their
own will for excitement and the gain of some small
personal gift.... A chief cause of prostitution which
has not been sufficiently recognised is sexual frigidity.
This is the clearest explanation of the moral insensi-
bility of the prostitute. I am certain that many of
the courtesans I have known have never experienced
passion. I believe that the traffic of love’s supreme
rite means less to them than it would do to me to
shake hands with a man I disliked.
* * * *
A dame left her reticule in a Bourke-street
whop and the next customer who happened
in, also a woman, instead of concealing it or
handing it to the shopkeeper, took it outside
and gave it to a constable. He naturally
opened it and found, besides a handkerchief,
a recipe for lemon syrup, a cutting from the
Argus and other trifles, an address and a
parcel containing 17 counterfeit florins. The
address wasn’t much good, but, being care-
fully followed up, it led to the discovery and
subsequent internment of the bag’s owner
and a coining plant. Now, if women would
only wear pockets—you can’t leave your
trouser-pocket on a shop counter.
* * * *
A curious tram accident happened in front
of Cole’s in Bourke-street, Melbourne, a week
or two ago. A man, crossing, was struck by
a dummy, and driven with such violence into
the stomach of another man, who was also
crossing, that the latter was knocked out
and left gasping on his back. The man who
was hit by the dummy was not nearly as
badly affected as the man who was hit by
the man who was hit by the dummy. Ivneei-
ing by the real victim, the first man, after
some little time given to the recovery of his
faculties, grasped the prostrate sufferer and
ejaculated : “Great Scott! I’ve been lookin’
for this fellow for six years. He stole a
horse and trap from me at Euroa.” The
long arm of coincidence is sometimes a dirty
left.
* * * *
“Jacko”: Preparations are now under
way to resume training under the Defence,
Act. Let us have training, certainly; but
since the war the only persons who have
benefited have been the “heads” and the
tradespeople. It means the waste of hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds. This is how
it works out. The units, necessarily dis-
organised by war withdrawals, are bundled
into camp for 16 days in any old place, a
magnificent array of headquarters talent is
got together, alid each unit takes with it its
own crowd of officers and non-coms. Between
90 and 100 per cent, of the instruction is
given by the non-coms., the hardest job of
some of the officers being the signing for pay.
CORRECTED.
SHE: “ When we were first married you used
to call me a packet of sweets.'"
HE: “ Acid-drops , m'dear; acid-drops!"
The training is worthless. The infantry are
without rifles, the special corps without their
equipment, and the operations are mostly
ceremonial bunkum. If Pearce wants to
save money here’s •< chance.
AN APPEAL TO THE PASSING TEETOTALLER.
[For The Bulletin.]
“Barmaid Takes Poison.” —Daily paper headline.
Make no g’lad r.oise on
Drily observing it ;
One's taken poison
Instead of serving it.
n.sav. THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
A MATTER OF REPRISALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The battle between the Archbishop of Canterbury
and the Duke of Argyle over the matter of reprisals
goes well. The betting is on the Duke, who speaks
of the ‘archaic signatures’ of the bishops, but the
Archbish. has still a strong following.”
The soft archbishop waved his hand ;
It pained him much war’s sights to sre—
The cannon tearing up the land,
The bullets letting souls go free:
“My brethren, turn the other cheek—
Well, not exactly turn, but scan
\ our foemen with a patience meek
And lie as Christian as you can.”
And raging like a seven-fold Hell
Sinner and saint together jell.
Coughing his Sunday pulpit cough,
The mild archbishop marked the strife.
He heard the flying ruin scoff
At him and God and hope and life.
He coughed, he sighed, his fingers curled
As, half in wrath and half in prayer,
The while the disembowelled world
With curses smote the poisoned air.
And moaning like a calf-less cow,
lie stopped his ears against the row.
t T prose the duke with angry frown,
And dipped his pen in noble ink:
“I’ll take the pulpit-fondler down,
I’ll make the holy beggar think.
This is the man of action's day—
Out on the cant that scorns the deed !
Take the archaic thing away—
A duke, a duke is what they need !”
And still the guns through dust and mud
Pasted the world with death and blood.
Out on the muddle-headed saints—
Soft pastors filled with cakes and tea—■
Their prostests and their mild restraints
Make weak our hands by land and sea 1
Large talk we wart, not shepherd crooks,
The force to answer brag with skite!
Out on the churchmen 1 We, the dukes.
Full armed with ink, can make the fight.
And still the long, red battle swayed.
II hile dukes blasph -nod and churchmen
prayed.
The soft archbishop fiercely sighed,
The loud duke cursed hiffi'well and long.
Must Christian weakness, gentle-eved,
Pray still for croquet and ping-pong?
Such warlike acts the Church deems good ;
But this archbishop waved his crook ;
Reprisals here he understood—
He went for that bomb-raiding duke.
And like a hell of eggs and ham
They rage—but no one cares a damn.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


REPRISALS.
“Reprisals in kind are urged in return for repeated German raids on England.”
“Reprisals? Don’t worry! Germany has supplied civilisation with an eternal one."


A STUDY IN PROPORTION.
The available elephant and the inadequate cart.


ZANETIO Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.R. Zanetic Works, Leicester
England. Tt s All-British, and economical in use. [2
A Letter of Interest to all Pastoralists and Farmers throughout Australia.
Mr. T. I. Campbell, Gen. Sec. Farmers 4 Settlers’ Association, N.S.W., gives this testimony to Clements Tonic
CLEMEN - IS 10NJC LI I). Farmers & Settlers' Association of \SIV
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and experience Tdo f dney ’ 27 ' 7/ ’ 16 ' ’
opinion of it, simply putting into words what I have so often spoken." ’ f hesitate to ? lve you my
"1 believe it to he a very fine nerve and blood tonic. \ know that it lias benefited me arcath- W
periods my duties are exceptionally heavy, involving a rea t mental and ? Sreatlv. At various
your medicine of the greatest value to me. bavin? simmlarlv i &n< 1 have ahva ) TS found
your medicine of the greatest value to me, having singularly invigorating and recuperaTive nron" t*
T make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to manv of mv friends r'f i J ‘ ltie&
othc,- s to benefit by my personal experience. 'il yours W "* 01
“T. I. CAMPBELL.
“General Secretary.
of enabling
It is questionable whether there is auy
niau better or more widely known than the
secretary of this far-reaching Associa-
tion. whose members scattered far and
wide amongst the farming and pastoral
community number thousands. Mr.
Campbell’s testimony will be read with
interest, because of its sincerity and its
lucid explanation of the value of Clements
Tonic and its beneficial effect upon his
health. There is no better medicine for
the man on the land. It is a mistake for
you to be without it. Keep it at home.
GET CLEMENTS TONIC TO-DAY AND GET WELL
Clements Tonie Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
AUU ijtiEMISTS AND
STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melachrino
Cigarettes
AT ALL TOBACCONISTS
.T. H. Vaughan, ex-Premier Crawford’s
brother, and Attorney-General of S. A us.
since April. 1915, has enlisted. The late
Government’s critics said bitter things about
a Ministry of young men contributing no
member to the Expeditionary Forces; and
this is the reply. It is quite up to 40 or
50 other Australian M’s.P. to follow. The
performance of Australian members is
deplorable by comparison with that of the
Ilouse of Commons.
Grafton (N.S.W.)
has a returned Billjim
whose patriotism is
18-carat. H e was
shipped home unfit for
further service, and
slightly han-
dicapped for
the battle of
life, so a
grateful Aus-
tralia gave
him a pen-
sion of 30s. a week.
With the little he was
able to earn lie lived
fairly well. Then he
went to Grafton, where
his new employer gave
him more than a liv-
ing wage. Recently he
approached the boss
and asked if he suited
all right. The reply
being in the affirma-
tive, he asked if the
job was permanent.
“Yes, Bill,” said the
boss heartily. Next
day he renounced his
pension.
DR. GILRUTH. the
horse-doctor who has
again been sent North,
to attend to Aus-
tralia's big, sick white
elephant.
Despite his years, retiring Justice
a’Beckett (Vie.) is by no means obsolete.
In the courts ’honor’s frequent air of bore-
dom, not to say somnolence, often deceived
the unwary. Once a Gent. One. who had
been talking for a long time while a'Beckett
apparently slumbered, whispered to a friend
at the barristers’ table: “The old hasn’t
heard a word of what I’ve been saying.”
“Go on. Mr. ,” came in a tired voice
from the Bench. “I can hear yon perfectly.”
One yarn over which a’Beckett still chuckles
relates to Percy Ridgeway, whom he
once fined for keeping the Court waiting. A
few days later they met in a tobacco shop
near the Law Courts. Ridgeway, who was
about to make a purchase, stepped aside to
give precedence to the Judge. "Not at all •
after vou, Mr. Ridgeway.” remarked
a’Beckett affably. ”1 would rather not.
said the other; “last time 1 kept your Honor
waiting it cost me a pound !’’
Died recently in France, John, only son of
the Netherby-Grahams, of Wahroonga
(N.S.W.). Enlisting early in the war he
was sent from Egypt about 18 months ago.
and at the time of his death was a sergeant
in the A.I.F. Deceased was a descendant of
Netherby-Graeme. whose bride was snatched
from him by young Lochinvar, on the famous
occasion when he “came out of the West.”
“Fax’ - : What I live for is to see llindeu-
burg blown out. He is such un unmeritori-
ous hero. He made his reputation by gory
victories over great masses of ill-armed, ill-
led Russians who
had not enough
artillery to get
them out of the
mess. He revelled
in soft, snaps until
he took command
on the Western
Front: since
then he has been
gassing of victory
whilst retreating
from one pre-
arranged “1 in c”
to another. Hin-
denburg is the
outward visible
sign of Germany’s
inward braggart
soul, and when
he blows out the
national soul will
shrivel.
GEORGE
BROWN.I.S.O.,
Private Secretary
to various Tas.
Governors, and a
w hole G.M.G.
himself now.
With Major Leslie Coulter, D. 5.0.. gone,
there is only one of four well-known Ballarat
brothers left—Lieut. Colonel Graham
Coulter, D.S.O. The father, Irvine Coulter,
still survives. Before he joined tip in 1015,
Leslie proved his mettle in the big Mount
Lyell (Tas.) lire some years ago. and was
given many souvenirs. Mis training in the
Citizen L’orees secured him a commission in
the Engineers, and he organised a miners’
corps at Mount Lyell for service. In France
he quickly rose to a captaincy, was wounded
in July. 1916, and was a major when he
was killed at 28. Ilis eldest brother was
Captain Sydney Coulter, killed 17 years ago
at Riets Vlei, in the Boer War. Graham
and Jason came through that campaign
scatheless, as privates—-Jason to die of
wounds received at Courtney’s Post. Gal-
lipoli. and Graham to be included in the last
New Year list for services in Gallipoli from
landing to evacuation, and afterwards in
France. ITe is 38, but retains the fire of 25.
Died in S. Aus. last week, at 77. Egerton-
Warburton, squatter, who helped his father,
the major, in some noted exploration work
of the early ’7o’s.
Captain Pelham Toler-Rowley, one of the
last of the Indian Mutiny veterans who
settled in Australia, has just died in Adel-
aide. As an ensign, 60 years ago, he helped
the old East India Co. in many thrilling
jobs, but for over half a century he had been
a quiet citizen of Adelaide, where both of his
sons are lawyers.
After fighting his battery to the last. Ray
Pybus, major of artillery, passed West
in France, with every Tassy hat raised to
him. He went, off as lieut. in a Tasmanian
battery, but after Egypt and the Dar-
danelles was transferred to a Westralian
battery. When the war-gong first crashed
I’ybus was a clerk in the Engineer’s
Branch of the Railways at Launceston.
And.only 20 at the end.
A group of Adelaide’s remarkable patri-
archs has been got together for a photo in
the local Chronicle. The dozen total 1009
years; that is, though a kid of 74 was care-
lessly included, they average 84. All are
prominent citizens, and most of them are
still hard at work. Dr. Jefferis was Syd-
ney’s best-known Congregational parson 30
or 40 years ago; O'Halloran is still a magis-
trate ; Miller Anderson is at the head of a
big drapery business; Charles Goode (901
and Edwin Smith are still A.M.P. directors,
and the latter also is on the Savings Bank
and many other boards. Notable absentees
were Canon Andrews (too busv to be pre-
sent), squatter Peter Waite, and Thomas
Burgoyne, who is 90. and has been out of
Parliament only two years.
Lieut.-Colonel Holborow. just dead, was
born in Phil lip-street. Sydney, m JWI. lns
father being then a draper’s assistant, ver-
ting into business on Ins own a •count in tin
later 'forties (the shop was in (,( J* ■{
opposite Jamieson-street) he math <> •
fortune and retired early. Hu*
his son, made money as a storekei per. t> •
but took business less seriously. ! < '■
M.L.A. for Argyle from 1880 to iso4 and
had it sent in the Council from I*d.> on
wards.
About a big man who toiled in Australia
for a few years.
One of the most notable people of the war is Her-
bert Clark Hoover, already well known to the upper
400 of Australian mining men because of his connec-
tion with W.A.’s one and only gold boom. Hoover
was born in lowa (U.S.A.) in 1874, so is now 43
years old. At 16 he went to Stanford University,
then just opened. During his four years’ course this
man. who was destined to accumulate a fortune
before 24, become a millionaire at 27, and at 43
( ontrols the food supply of 114,000,000 people, paid
all his living and college expenses- out of his own
earnings. He acted as agent for a laundry and did
odd jobs, such as grinding slides for microscopes, and
during his holidays earned money as a helper to field
geologists.
Graduating in 1895 as a mining engineer, he
worked for "a while in New Mexico. Then another
famous man, Louis Janin, a Californian engineer,
made him his office-assistant at CIO a mouth, with
the right of private practice in a small way. Directly
he got fixed in a job Hoover sent east for his
younger brother Theodore, now a distinguished engi-
neer, and for his sister and a girl cousin who was in
poor circumstances. The family lived in a small
cottage in Oakland, across the bay . from San Fran-
cisco. It was characteristic of Hoover. He is a man
of big sympathies.
In 1897 Louis Janin was asked by Bewick, Moreing
and Co. of London to select a young engineer to act
as their field-geologist in Westralia. Janin offered the
billet at a salary of £lOOO a year to Hoover, who,
although just 24, looked more like 16. It took every
dollar he could scrape up to get to London, where
Bewick, Moreing’s people evidently thought him too
young for the W.A. job of field-engineer, and on his
arrival in Perth their representative sent him to
manage a small mine until he was a bit older. But
though Hoover would still draw £lOOO a year with
much less responsibility, he objected to the changed
status and promptly resigned. There was some
delay; but by cable 8., M. and Co. at last consented
to let him both manage the mine and act under his
contract as their chief field-geologist. Then Hoover
and Luck met. The Sons of Gwalia was worked by
people who did not know how good it was. Hoover
examined and took a short option over it and cabled
8., M. and Co. in London. After reading Hoover’s
report the firm bought the mine and re-sold it at a
profit of £lOO,OOO, of which Hoover got £6600. He
also got an increase of salary to £3OOO a year and
a percentage of future profits. Having made good,
no further reference was ever made to his youth.
In 1899, run down in health through overwork,
Hoover went to California and got married. Two
THE WINTER GAME.
THE GIRL: “Fancy, Mr. Stayathome, my
brother's been made captain on the
field.”
THE SPORT: "You don't say! Why, I didn't
even know he played football.”
fine boys, Herbert and Allan, are the result. Later
that year he took his bride to China, where he was
appointed chief engineer of the Imperial Bureau of
Mines. He explored the province of Yunnan and
established the Chinese Engineering and Mining Co.,
of which he is now managing-director. By 1901 h
hud made his first million •dollars (£200,000), and
next vear Bewick, Moreing and Co. offered him a
partnership. Short ly after, through the Howe frauds,
whereby an employee of the firm issued a great deal
of forged scrip, the firm lost £250,000. Hoover was
a new partner, and liable for only £10,000; but he
insisted on bearing his full share of the deficit, and.
paid out £lOO,OOO of his own good money. Subse-
quentlv he sold out of 11.. M. and Co. and established
offices in London, New York and San Francisco,
whence he controls scores of mines in many countries
which employ in all 125,000 men.
To-day as food-controller of U.S.A. he is tackling
almost the biggest job of all time.
The recent Hoods have brought to light
an arboreal settler
along the Goulburn
(Vie.). A Melbourne
pressman who was
“doing’’ the deluged
districts was intro-
duced to the party.
He had selected a
blue gum, and away
aloft, where four
limbs branched, had
built a small, substan-
tial slab hut, with an
iron chimney. The
way into his parlor
is up a winding stair
which coils round the
trunk. He did not
seem to think his
choice of a roost called
for any explanation.
“The floods in 1902
chased me up here,”
he said, “and here I’ve
stuck.” 1
LEONARD
HUBBARD.
an old identity of the
Hobart press and Tas-
mania's crack rifleshot.
Passed out at Penrith (N.S.W.), at 91.
Anne Amelia Neale, grand-daughter of the
Rev. Henry Fulton, who was transported to
this country from Ireland for his connection
with the Irish Rebellion of ’9B. He was
sent by Governor King as chaplain to Nor-
folk Island, and on his return was appointed
to Castlereagh and Penrith, where he re-
mained till his death in 1840. Old Mrs.
Neale’s mother. Elizabeth Fulton, was the
daughter of Robert Cartwright, another old-
time chaplain, the first minister in charge
of the Ilawkesbury.
South Aus. has now 14 women J’s.P.
Sydney Grant Boydell. the sacking of
whom by Speaker Willis threatened a
change of Government some six years ago.
is now clerk-assistant in the N. S. Wales
Leg. Assembly. Latterly he has been wad-
ing through Hansard records of the past
20 years, and has published a pocket edition
of Parliamentary practice so far as it relates
to the House in Committee. Charles
Broughton Boydell, recently-retired clerk of
the Federal Senate, is a brother. Bishop
Broughton, first Anglican Bishop of Aus-
tralia (3830), was their grandfather.
Westralia has just scored a couple of
scientific D.S.O.’s. During the last session
of the Institute of Civil Engineers. London,
two papers were read —one. “Coolgardie
Water Supply.” by T. V. O’Rrien and John
Parr; the other. “Interior Water Supnly of
W estralia.” by O’Brien. The Institute has
awarded to both writers the George Stephen-
son Gold Medal, and to O’Brien the Telford
Premium as well. P. V. O'Brien. Chief
Engineer of Goldfields Water Supply, has
had control of Westralia's backblock water
supplies for many years; Parr is acting-
engineer for the Perth metropolitan area.
Dead at 72. C. 11. F. Shearn. who pro-
bably fathered more wild cats than anyone
else in Tasmania. Born in Hobart, the son
of an early shipbuilder, lie had boundless
faith in the Speck. On the discovery of
gold at Lefroy he was in early and became
a director of the Native Youth. Having
thus got a taste lie sold up his business and
devoted the rest of his life to the wild-cat
tribe. In his time he must have tried to
tame half a hundred. Incidentally, as a
r feemason. lie was a member of the Lodge
of Hope. Nothing could have been more
appropriate.
While those who ought to tackle the job
ot getting returned soldiers to productive
work are merely vaporing, men like Sergeant
Sinclair are doing things. Sinclair has in
six months taught a dozen soldiers, at a
small “school" in Carlton, how to produce
hand-woven tweeds, and the goods are being
eagerly bought.
GOIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ain’t I got no hope, Nurse? Gain, tell a feller
straight!
I’d jest as soon be goin’ now I ’aren’t got me mate.
The doctor bloke, I bet ’e knows,
'N'd if ’e says 1 goes, 1 goes....
The others went at Anzac, ’nd I kinder guess 1 m
late.
But, tell us honest, Miss, ain’t f never some time
been
’Bound Sydney, down Australia way—what! ain t y
never seen
The buildings, harbor, steamers, all
The places where the ferries call —•
Manly ! Mosman ! Middle ’Arbor ! Them's the ones
I mean.
Manly! Gawd, it fairly makes me funny in the
throat—
The kiddies! ’Nd bananas! ’Nd the music on the
boat!
The ferries flitting all about —
They cock-a-doodledooed us 0ut....
Fort Denison ! It seemed to smile that day we went
afloat.
Old Sydney never was so good as on that sunny day-—-
Aw.... I’m gettin’ sentimental.... an’ the light is
goin’ grey....
That’s the surf at Manly drummin’....
Hold on, cobber, I am cornin’....
Well, so long, nurse.... I must be a-gettin’. . . .on
... .my way.
x.s.w.
KENNETH SLESSOR.


mr&i ys • < mi fc i
SI?-
«
\S>
*r:. ■<&*
I
v> 1
f\ .£~
l~ k
w-**
; i
"V;
i^v.
=x s
-. if
KEJ*.
=ffE'v |
[ ■•: r-
'-:i\
U y :,
U ! ..
-Ci
m
' l v
X
7
. >
s i’-Sl
IT v .
- >;
■ «v-
-avn:
<r—
\iv
THE FACTS ARE:
To-day the character and service of “Austral” Tailoring stands relatively higher in the estimation
of this city’s well-dressed men than ever before.
And the reason is clearly evidenced in the fact that “Austral” Tailoring Standards of Quality have been Bedfast ly main-
tained, despite the effects of the rising price of wool and woollen piece goods, which has iong continued and stil goes on.
Wherefore an “Austral” Sac Suit to Order not only looks as good as it is, but proves as good as it looks, through every
stage of wear.
‘Austral” Sac Suits to Measure 75/-, 85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-, 157/6.
Those men who live within a distance which enables them to
make a visit to the store may learn what more and all they
want to know by a personal inspection of the New Season’s
Suitings, and a chat about the styles with one or other of our
staff of Expert Cutters, who are all day at their service.
Country Customers and those who live at a distance or find
it inconvenient to call will be interested and pleased also by
an inspection of the new goods at their leisure and in their
own homes. To any address we send, post free, complete
ranges of patterns, with measurement forms and tape, which
makes it simple and quite safe to send a postal order.
CARRIAGE 18 PAID OX iLL COUNTRY ORDERS.
484 to 490 GEORGE ST.,
3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods.
New Branch Shop at
304 GEORGE ST. (neai
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand).
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE. ANTIMOMAL LEAD.
LINO METAL. SPELTER. ZINC
DUST. REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS
Lead,
ORES.
Silver or
containing
Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW
The Stonttar* Ouahty throughout the
•wonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dyn«
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Structural*ste< Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, P.g Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E C ADELAIDF um-
SYDNEY—2S O ConLu Street " g W "" am S * reet
head OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland Government Accident
Insurance Department :
Carried to
Reserves for To
Gross Gross Unexpired General Total
Income. Profit. Risks. Reserves. Reserves.
1904.. £24,188 £5,418 £978 £4,440 £15,203
1905.. 24,876 6,572 80 6,492 21,775
1906.. 21,929 1,604 1,604 23,379
1907.. 22,835 4,901 4,901 28,280
1908.. 22,688 4,094 - 4,094 32,374
1909.. 28,515 8.528 2264 6,264 40,902
1910.. 23,907 4,704 4,764 45,666
1911.. 23,612 6,222 6,222 51,888
1912.. 26,733 7,448 7,448 59,336
Written-Off.
1913.. 26,865 7,874 377 7,497 66,833
1914.. 25,443 9,239 534 8,705 75,538
Added to
Reserves.
1915.. 27,673 11,230 528 '0,702 86,768
Written Off.
1916.. 27,016 8,874 412 8,874 95,642
This office set out to provide employers witn
-cist-price insurance under the Workmen’s
Compensation law; and, though from time
to time rates have been liberalised, it looks
as if something more was still waiting to be
done in that direction. Last /ear, for in-
stance, though a revised scale was intro-
duced during 1914, nearly 35 p.c. of the
premium incope was profit. This table
shows how the money has been cut up for a
few years past:—
Claims. Expenses. Reserves.
1905 ..£45 3 10 p.c. £2B 7 9 p.c. £26 8 5 p.c.
1906 . . 62 11 4 „ 30 2 3,, 7 6 5 „
1907 . . 49 8 8 ~ 29 2 1,, 21 9 3 „
1908 . . 52 11 4 „ 29 7 10 „ 18 0 10 „
1909 .. 44 18 0 ~ 25 3 7 „ 29 18 5 ~
1910 . . 52 7 7 „ 27 14 0 „ 19 18 5 „
1911 .. 44 9 1 ~ 29 3 11 ~ 26 7 0 „
1912 .. 44 19 2 „ 27 3 10 ~ 27 17 0 „
1913 . . 42 15 7 „ 27 18 3 ~ 29 6 2 „
1914 .. 37 17 3 „ 27 18 5 „ 34 4 4 „
1915 .. 32 17 1 „ 26 11 3 „ 40 11 8 ~
1916 .. 39 12 0 „ 26 0 6 „ 34 7 6 „
The expense rate has been gradually
reduced ; yet it ought to be still lower. When
employers are practically compelled to in-
sure, there ought to be a plan by which
something less than one-fourth of their pre-
miums would be absorbed by expenses. If
that means a State monopoly it can’t be
helped. In fact, there could be no two opinions
about the propriety of it if the State had
made a better fist at handling the monopolies
it already has.
The Accident Fund and the amount
deemed necessary to cover unexpired risks
total £30.046. There is also a third line of
defence in the form of a general reserve.
£62,597. as well as an investment fluctuation
fund. £3OOO. Apart altogether from the
backing of the State, the security for tin*
policy-holder is therefore indisputably excel-
lent. The funds are represented by mort-
gages. £77.741; M.L. debentures. £10,000:
and war loan, £7500. It isn’t very often
that The Bulletin finds reserves unneces-
sarily large: hut in this case, as before men-
tioned. there seems no good reason why they
should be piled up at the present rate, and
a system of bonus distributions might very
well be considered.
The Western Australian Bank :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves.- serves.
~ £ £ £ £
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.c.= 19,189 8,756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.e.= 20,000 7,206 538,398
Mar., 1911.. 29,066 20 „ ~20,000 9,066 547,464
Premiums on new shares .. 71,820 619 284
Sept., 1911.. 28,110 20 p.c.= 23,939 4,171 623,455
Premiums on new shares . . 18,180 641,685
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.c.= 25,000 10,319 651,984
Sept., 1912.. 36,488 20 ~ ~ 25,000 11,488 663 472
Mar., 1913.. 37,404 20 „ ~25,000 12,404 670’576
Sept., 1913.. 33,652 20 „ ~25,000 8,652 684.528
Mar., 1914.. 34,907 20 ~ ~25,000 9,907 694 435
Sept., 1914.. 29,955 20 „ ~25,000 4,955 699^390
Mar., 1915.. 27,488 20 „ ~25,000 2,488 701’878
Sept., 1915.. 27,209 20 „ ~25,000 2,209 704^087
Mar., 1916.. 28,753 20 „ ~25,000 3,753 707’840
SepL, 1916.. 27,140 20 „ ~25,000 2,140 709 980
Mar., 1917.. 28,390 20 „ ~25,000 3,390 713^370
Westralia is not fattening on war loans
and payments for products at war prices as
the Eastern States are. though, like them,
if will have to pay the hill presently. On
the contrary, its big gold industry is suffer-
ing seriously. For the price of gold is fixed :
and all that happens to the gold-producer is
that, while getting no more, he has to pay
more for his stores and his labor. Hence
this bank, which confines itself to Westralia,
shows a rather serious depreciation of profits’,
and there is too small a margin nowadays
between them and dividends. The 20 pc
dividend, by the way, is a good deal less
affluent than it looks, because most of the
capital has been issued at a heavy premium.
The last lot of shares were sold for £2B; and
that wasn’t the maximum. Probably the
shareholder’s average return on the money
he has actually pot into the business is under
S p.c.
Comparing the balance-sheet figures with
those of a year ago these results show up:
1,1 A HILITIES.
Mar.. 'l6. Mar..’l7.
Votes Mi 1.970 111,751
Bills, etc 191.054 116,252
Free deposit- •• 1,261.921 1.162,84,
Fixed deposits .. 1,144,827 1,191,503
• Assets.
Advances .. . . 2,520,340 2,516,943
Liquid assets .. 992,772 874,580
Premises .. - • 79,500 79,200
The bank thus owes £2.482,353 to its cus-
tomers, aud has £874 580 liquid, equal to a
very moderate 35 p.c. Considering the
amount of current-account money the hold-
ing is not excessive, and the bank is proba-
bly trading somewhere near the limit of its
present resources. But it has enough funds
of its own to justify much larger deposits :
and from that point of view the position of
depositors and other creditors is very strong.
Indeed, that the bank should be making its
present profits with so comparatively little
outside money shows that some of its
business is very profitable—assuming, of
course, that it is making sufficient in-
ternal provision for contingencies. But
it is doubtful whether the general level
of banking profits in Westralia will be
maintained—the champagne period has
passed—and the time will probably come
when, in order to maintain the dividend, the
bank will have to look for more deposits.
And that may mean an extension of business
eastward, where the oofbird has the bad
habit of settling when he has feathered lffs
nest.
Meggitt, Ltd. (Sydney), manufacturers
of linseed oil (the deficit to begin with was
represented by goodwill £2OOO and flotation
exes. £582) :
, Dividends. N
Pref.
Loss. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
N0v.,’11.. £2,582
Dec., ’12.. £5,163 Nil Nil 7,745
Dec., ’13.. 3,194 Nil Nil 10,939
£14,938 Capital written off and
assets written down . . .. 3,548
Profit.
N0v.,’14.. 2,328 Nil Nil 1,220
Reserves.
Nov., T 5.. 12,730 £1333 30p.c. = £4479 5,698
Deficit.
Written off capital (£14,935) restored
and bonus shares issued (£14,938).. 17,313
12 months to
May, ’17.. 22,412 3326 10 p.c. = 4481 2,708
That is a ragged table; also there is a leaf
out towards the bottom end. But it is the
best that can be done in the circumstances.
Like most Australian manufacturing con-
cerns the co. started with too little capital,
and it looks as though that little wasn’t
easily got. At any rate, though there were
50,000 £1 shares authorised, only 29,351
were subscribed, and 2000 of them were paid
for the goodwill of a business which had been
struggling along with out-of-date machinery.
Apparently the people who became interested
were men who knew a good deal about India
through their connection with the jute trade ;
and it is to India that Australia still looks
for its linseed, though there is no reason at
all why. now that an oil industry has been
established here, the seed should not he
grown in Australia, just as it is in Canada
and Argentina. Things went badly for a
while. In the first year the new capital put
up. and used largely in providing more
modern plant, was not productive for many
months. The next year the co. was busy
persuading Australia that linseed oil wasn’t
necessarily poor stuff because it hadn’t been
given a long sea voyage. That meant heavy
exes. _ and another loss. Then, with the
best intentions in the world, the directors
did a precipitate thing: they wrote off half
the capital. As a matter of fact it wasn’t
utterly lost: a whole lot of it was in what
the young insurance office calls “Business ex-
tension account.” Just about the same time
a fire occurred which wiped out plant and
stocks ; and. though for a while that looked
like the end of things, it turned out to be
one of the co. s strokes of luck. With stand-
ing charges as well as the tangible assets in-
sured the co. was able to set to work
promptlv ; and then the tide turned definitely
and the eo. got on to profits, which have
grown rapidly ever since.
A couple of years back, seeing that ship-
ping from Europe and America was going to
become scarce, the directors asked then-
rreasurer Iliggs what he thought of getting
capital sufficient to put in plant capable of
supplying all Australia’s requirements.
Higgs thought it was a first-rate idea, from
every point of view, and approved of a
£” P (n J/r 2 J sharps had been written
down to 10s. He permitted a new co. to
he foimed among the old shareholders and
on condition that £20.000 new 2nd pref capi-
tal was put up. allowed the old 10s to be
restored and an equal amount to he divided
in bonus shares, nominally against goodwill,
but practically to a large extent against
accumulated profits. So the pfesent caiwtai
is £44,814 in 59,628 10s. shares. £20.000 iU
Ist prefs. (issued after the old and hasty
writing down), and £20,000 (£D.6D pan
in 2nd prefs: total £54.421). The business
has expanded so splendidly that eveh this
isn’t sufficient for the purposes of the co*.
and there are liabilities of about £4_. . n
the other side are freeholds £24.S S, plain
£35,000. stocks £59,250, and £26.984 itt book
debts and sundries. Stocks are heavy; no
doubt the co. collared shipping space trom
India vvhile it was available. For a co. de-
pendent wholly on oversea imports for its
raw material it has had astonishing luck.
Vessels had to be orovided to bring wheat
sacks and wool bales to Australia, and lin-
seed was very good stiffening cargo. Ih
that respect the co. is likely to go on scoring
for a while longer, at any rate, while most
other importers look down their noses. The
profit for the past year is shown after provid-
ing for depreciation and income tax. The
plant is described as now r “of most up-to-date
character,” and with additions in progress
“the equipment generally should be able to
meet competition from all quarters and pro-
vide sufficient oil for all Australian require-
ments.” Incidentally the product has estab-
lished a reputation for quality; and the enter-
prise is in the hands of men who are not
likely to allow it to deteriorate.
Heiron and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney),
manufacturers of billiard-tables and general
furnishings and dealers in household decora-
tions :
to Deficit
r- —■ —-Dividends. ■, Reduce (Good-
Promts. Pref. Ordinarv. Deficit, will).
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
—' 60,0(H)
1915.-12,289 6 p.c.= 3220 8 p.c.= 4800 4269 55,731.
1916.. 8,858 6 „ ~3220 6 „ ~ 3600 2038 53,693
1917.. 9,793 6 „ ~ 3220 8 „ ~4800 1773 51,920
This co. is aif amalgamation : it was formed
to acquire the N. S. Wales and Queensland
businesses of Alcock’s and Heiron and
Smith, both makers of billiard-tables and
sundries ; then the business was extended to
take in Sherwood’s, Ltd., furnishers; and,
having ample resources, the co. has since
gone in for talking-machines, the Sunlight
gas-making process, and other helps to home
reereat'on. Its weak point, looked at from
one angle, is that of its share capital of
£113,664 no less than £60,000 is represented
by goodwill, patent rights, etc. —probably a
bit more than that, in fact, because £1565
represents the purchase of the Sunlight Gas
Co. Rut views regarding the capitalisation
of cos. are changing. Firms which put thou-
sands of pounds of revenue into advertising
of one sort and another and thus establish
a name which makes it comparatively easy
to sell their goods can’t afford to get no
return for that outlay ; and they find it diffi-
cult to get a return unless they include tiffs
outlay in their capital. Wipe the £60.000 off
the capital of this co., for instance, reducing
it to £54,000, and on that the profit looks
excessive enough to invite unwarranted
attack from some direction or other.
Seeing that the co. goes in pretty exten-
sively for time-payment business, its own
liabilities, amounting to about £27,000, are
very moderate. On the other .side, it has
hook debts (including time-pavment con-
tracts) totalling £50.175. stock £20,731. and
factory and plant £20,128. When the slack
time comes it will no doubt find its sales in
some directions affected. But it seems highly
probable that it will gain in others. Aus-
tralia—especially backblocks Australia —is
steadily acquiring a belief that it hasn’t pro-
vided itself with a reasonable amount of
home comforts and recreations; and back-
blocks Australia, at any rate, ought to be
encouraged to go on acquiring a lot more of
that belief. This is really part of a big
national question. We have‘seen lately that
when all is said and done, there isn’t much
inclination on the part of returned Billjim to
"go on the land,” And no wonder if Billiim
knows what a dull, comfortless life the man
on the land has mostly lived.
* * *
Farmers' Union Trading Co. (Auck-
Tlds , 18 the baby among
Maonland farmers co-op. concerns, and it
has had so much support in a country where
the farmer has learned the benefits of co-
operative buying and selling that in its first
year it has had a turnover of £164834
though how those figures are made up isn’t
wfi?°nn d ;i & they 80 alon S directors
will no doubt arrive at a more satisfactory
way of presenting their figures. At present
the form is quite unusual; and there has
been a whole lot of acrid criticism in conse-
quence. It would have been better had no
I rofit and Loss account been published - for
it is the figures there that have misled the
cntics. If, however, the balance-sheet is
light that is to say, if the eo. has set down
° n ?n° ne l ide all its liabilities (including
capital) and on the other all its assets wirn
debtr th e en UC th° nS - for de P recia tion' and bad
debts—then there is no reason whatever to
doubt that the stated profit of £4705 was
made on the capital bf £0585. _There is, id
addition, a reserve fund of £1451 ; but pro-
bably this was made by a farmers’ union;
which was in existence for a year before the
co. was formed. I.ike most other cO-op. con-
cerns this one is under-capitalised. Its funds
as at March 3l appear to have been £12,741;
and its liabilities were abotit £45,900. Prac-
tically all its Own fhnds are in store and
office premises, so that it has to depend oil
outside capital to support its stocks
(£22,329) and book debts (£23,448). The
liabilities include £21*316 Of deposits; and if;
as Seems to be the cdsd; this is curfenh
account money; it is a dangerous system of
finance* Three things are necessary if the
co. is to attain the same success as the fine
co-op. concerns of the South —(1) loyalty of
co-operators, Which means steady patronage
of the co. even when the outsider offers ah
alluring line; 12) a little self-sacrifice for 3
few years, so that the reserves may grow and
the co. become independent pf outside capi-
tal; and (3) payment of cash for purchases
wherever and whenever that is at all possi-
ble, otherwise the co-operators cannot get
supplies at rock-bottom prices*
* * * •*
Bwallow am) Akiell. Ltd. (Melbourne);
manufacturers of foodstuffs: —
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nome
Aprij, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
1905. * £10.658 Nil £10,658 £36,26$
1900.. 12.140 1} p*C. = £1,82-4 10,316 46,578
1907.. 12,209 24 ;* s , 3,648 8,561 55,139
1908.. 2,234 2, ;; 3,648 53,725
1909.* 9.696 2- :: 3,648 6,048 59,773
1910.. 12,167 S' .. „ 5,473 6.694 66,467
1911.. 17,169 54 ~ .. 8,209 8,960 75,427
1912.. 24 454 6 ~ ~ 10,034 14,420 89,847
1913.. 15,769 7 ~ .. 11.214 4,555 94,402
1914.. 27,727 9" ~ 14,749 12 978 107,380
1915.. 33,105 9 „ 16,523 16,532 123,962
1916.. 11,545 74 „ 14,594 120,913
1917.. 16,072 8" ~ ~15,832 240 121,153
The co. had a bad time just before the table
starts; hence the poor showing at the top of
the dividend column. On the current figures
the directors could very well have divided
something more; but they seem to have been
anxious to push business further without
going to shareholders for more capital. They
have not avoided the latter altogether. For
many years the capital was £145,953 in £1
ordinary shares. In 1913 a first lot of
20,400 6 p.c. cumulative prefs. were issued,
with the right to share rateably with the
ordinaries when the latter have also had 6
p.c. A year later £29,480 more capital was
issued on the same terms; and last year
there was a . third issue of £30,000, though
only £9105 had been paid up by the end of
the eo.’s year.
The next table shows the total increase itt
capital and other lines in 10 years:—
Liabilities.
1907. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Capital . . £145,953 £189,398 £195,833 £204,998
Overdraft . . 50,324 55,369 87,262 44,341
Mortgages. etc. 13,712 11,000 13,400 12,920
Other debts . . 20,550 50,704 66,882 66,152
Assets.
Original pur-
chase .. 148,500 148,500 148,500 148,500
Other proper-
ties, etc. .. 31,341 76,747 90,686 94,592
Book debts .. 31,175 53,750 65,139 63,848
Stock.. .. 76,328 161,073 187,117 153,488
Cash, etc. . . 158 536 994 803
Total liabilities in 1907. £84,586; total
assets apart from original purchase,
£139,002. Excess of “other” assets, £54.416.
Total liabilities in 1917, £123,413. Total
“other ’ assets. £312,731. Excess' of these
other assets, £189,318, and a growth of
in 10 years. Deduct from that the
£09,045 of new capital, and vou get £75.857
as the amount of net profit left in the busi-
ness since 1907—a trifle more than 50 p.c. of
the capital at that time.
W hether assets have been sufficiently de-
preciated is not clear from the accounts. The
co. has a curious method of showing “origi-
nal purchase at cost from the firm of Swal-
ow and Ariell of freehold lands, buildings,
machinery, etc., including goodwill,” and this
‘ te ™ J‘'! s constant for 29 years at
t 148,000. But nowadays the sheet shows
(1) the additions prior to the year under
Review; (-) the additions during the year,
at cost, less allowance for total deprecia-
ion. Assuming, then, that a proper amount
ot revenue has been written off against
wear and tear, then in the past 10
.'ears the div. has averaged 64 p.c.,
and the co. has put by an amount
equal to practically half of the capital as it
tood at 140,. W hich means that the lav-by
has been somewhere about 5 p.c. p.a. It'is a
tfir hner performance than seemed probable
- years ago. And that is worth noting for
uture reference; for it is quite probable that
in some year to come, on account of very
hear raw materials, the co. may do badly
again It rom the very nature of the co.
- 1 / 1 * ma y ]? e erratic; but there is a big and
still bigger future for the food that can be
put h} and kept. In fact, that is what civil-
isatmn consists of very largely—storing
1 uj s surplus to satisfy to-morrow’s needs.


£12,500,000.
The Trust Funds under the control of
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
exceed this figure, thus showing the
confidence in which it is held by the
public.
This Company offers dis-
tinct advantages over the
Private Trustee.
Write for Booklet setting
out particulars of its
Methods and Charges.
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager.
Fire, Marine
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
** 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194.235
Paid-up Capital 96,165 6 6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1010.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. 11. CAVK. General Manager.
263 George Street, Sydney
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 4375. Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street. Sydney.
The damage to electric mine equipment by light-
ning and the consequent repair expenses, delay of
operations, etc., make the question of lightning pro-
tection a matter of serious consideration. Since the
commencement of electric mine service, the General
Electric Company of New York have studied the
problem of protecting mine equipments, with the
result that actual experience proves that G.E. Light-
ning Arresters for direct current and alternating
current circuits do protect. Write us for full parti-
culars. quotations, etc. Australian General Electric
Co., Sydnej' and Melbourne.— Advt.
Adarnax is cheaper to buy, cheaper to lay and
cheaper to freight than iron rooting. You will
change your mind about roofyigs after you have used
Adarnax. Galvanised-iron roofings may look all right
at first, but they haven’t the good qualities of
Adarnax, and soon go to pieces. Adarnax roofing will
outlast iron, yet its cost is approximately one-third.
Adarnax is water-proof, more pliable and better in
every way than iron. It resists the ravages of acids,
chemicals or gases, which soon make galvanised-iron
rust or pinhole. It is made in one, two or three ply,
but only one quality—“the best.’’ Write for samples
and booklet, “The Adarnax Series.” William Adams
and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for fofging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work.— Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Pipe has made a name for itself.
It has proved to be the finest pressure pipe, as well
as the most efficient conduit for all kinds of fluids,
hot or cold. Pioneer Wood Pipe is the cheapest
satisfactory piping to buy. Send for illustrated cata-
logue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited.
(II.O.) 57 York Street, Sydney. Contr ctors to all
State Governments. Factories: Lane Cove River,
N.S.W. ; Footscra.v, Yic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
—Advt.
It is wonderful what an ordinary man can do
with an ordinary hammer, some nails and a fen
sheets of Asbestolite. It is the building material
par excellence, and is fire- and weather-proof.
Spriggs’ Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.-— Advt. [1
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Denby Motor Lorries selected as the best by
America’s postal officials. An inscription on the
New Y r ork Post Office reads: “Neither snow nor rain
nor heat nor gloom of night stay's these couriers
from the swift completion of their appointed rounds."
And the “Denby” ’does it! Several 2-J-ton models
from Australian stocks. Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
head office: The Quay, Sydney. Australian Machinery
Co. Ltd.. 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. FT. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd.. 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke. Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
uR IMMEDIATE S ALE
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHER,
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
T HE Walsßaw Patent Process for Puri*
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities. Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used tor
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and
Agency Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :—•
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1906.. £2094 124 p.c. =£1172 £922 £8,272
1907.. 1817 12 1 „ „ 1172 645 8,917
1908.. 2205 12* ~ „ 1172 1033 9,950
1909.. 2516 124 „ „ 1172 1344 11,294
1910.. 2413 12* .. „ 1172 1241 12,535
1911. . \ 218 « 35 ~ „ 1406 782 ) ?
( Written-off, £lOOO f 12 ’ 317
1912.. 2343 15 p.c. = 1406 937 13,254
1913.. 2032 15 „ „ 1406 626 13,880
1914.. 2331 15 „ 1406 925 14,805
1915.. 2259 15 „ .. 1406 853 15,658
1916.. 3013 15 „ ~ 1406 1607 17,265
1917 ( 2220 15 ~ ~ 1406 814 1 ,-n-a
Written off, £lOOO f
Hitherto income tax has been lumped with
license fees, and in the year to April, 1916.
the total charge w-as £312. In the past year
the income tax alone amounted to £770; and
to that add £lO3 for license fees. These
items account for an additional £6OO of ex-
penditure ; so, relatively, the past year’s pro-
fit was pretty good. Earnings, in fact, were
exceptionally good
1912. 1916. 1917.
Commissions .. £3730 £4843 £5208
Interest, etc. .. 1551 1801 'lB4O
The capital is in 25,000 shares paid to 7s. Od.
and liable for another £3 17s. Od. But the
liability for that £3 17s. 6d. probably doesn’t
give the shareholders sleepless nights. True,
this co. owes more than most trustee cos.
“Balances due by co.” are £35.344. How-
ever, cash and “balances due to co.”—no
doubt advances to trust estates—more than
exceed the amount of the co.’s liabilities,
leaving the shareholders’ own funds to be re-
presented by debentures (£14,500) and
“mortgages and leasehold and buildings”
(£12,539). They are vague, amorphous
entries ; but the earnings are good—enough
to pay the 15 p.c. dividend, leaving the
w?hole of the profit from the business to go to
further sw-ell the reserves. So, even though
it doesn’t show? much growth, it is a nice
sweet morsel, and not likely to lose any of
the sw-eetness.
J. Fielding and Go., Ltd., cardboard-box
makers, Sydney, propose to issue 8023 bonus
shares —one for every three present shares.
The high price of tin-plates and the restric-
tion on their use, coupled with the protec-
tion which William H. (that stands for
Hohenzollern —not Hughes) has given Aus-
tralian manufactures, is favoring people in
this business beyond their brightest hopes.
Hence this distribution. The fly in the
butter is the threatened shortage of card-
board ; for there are not nearly enough mills
in Australia to supply the full Australian
demand even in normal times. But this
won’t affect the cardboard-box maker as it
will the cardboard-box user. With assured
Protection after the war manufacturers
would go ahead and increase their equip-
ment ; without it the restriction on tin-plates
simply means that there is going to be ex-
cessive competition for the inadequate
boards and somebody w?ill be stung. Of
course, the consumer w?ill pay.
* ♦ * *
From a Broken Hill man in the business:
Shipping difficulties are getting worse and worse.
It will not surprise me at any time to find Broken
Hill under blockade—long-distance blockade, of
course; but none the less effective on that account.
Practically the local population is making no pre-
paration to meet that very probable catastrophe, and,
ir. spite of abnormal wages, the mines wouldn’t be
closed down or even partially closed down for a
week before there would be a cry for help. Where
that help is to come from nobody stop's to inquire.
It is certain that if Broken Hill can't get its product
away to market other people will be in the same
plight; so it will be a case of one man in distress
calling to another.
Development work on the new molybdenum
field on Donaldson Bros.’ property at Yet-
holme. near Bathurst (N.S.W.), shows the
mineral in w-ell-defined, true quartz veins of
unknown dimensions. The occurrence is
similar to that seen on parts of the older
New England fields. To date half a dozen of
these ore bodies have been discovered out-
cropping in the dense w-attle scrub and fern
undergrowth, but exploration work is being
confined to one reef. On this a shaft, down
a few feet, has disclosed a fine-looking vein
3ft. wide and carrying free patches of flaky
molybdenite, as distinct from the big pegma-
titic occurrence in the Mount Tennyson
field, a few miles to the south. Water has
temporarily beaten the prospectors —the three
Donaldson brothers themselves —and when a
bigger pump has been installed sinking w?ill
proceed. An open cut on the same line to
the north has proved the vein at a slightly
deeper level. The stuff is likely to easily go
2 p.c., with a high recovery. The Donald-
sons hold about 130 acres, nearly all carry-
ing owners’ mineral rights. The family in-
tends to test the show further before talk-
ing business to outsiders. The field is on the
main Sydney-Batliurst road, near the 140-
mile peg.
* * *
Another of Bob Turner s shows is back at
the “encouraging” stage. This is Melbourne-
owned Bodangora. Mitchell’s ( reek
(N.S.W.), which, slapped in the face with
£513 for income-tax, owns up to a loss of
£768 on the last six months’ campaign. Costs
of handling ore and development went within
an ace of £3 per ton. As ore reserves above
and below No. 6 level at the Bodangora tot
up to 3300 tons of less than a £3 average,
and as Mitchell’s Creek has 1250 tons of a
gross value of £2 12s. per ton, either an
economy party will have to get on the job or
prospects will have to improve if profits are
to be made. The co.’s troubles are narrow-
reefs and only medium values. The city-
management has been shunted from Teddy
Dyason’s office into George Dickenson’s
stables, where the co. runs in double-harness
with Riverina South.
**•*-*
Westralian Mines Department belatedly
announces that the mineral output for 1916
was w-orth £4,893,417, or £584,732 less than
for 1915. Gold accounted for £4,508,532, or
over 92 p.c. of the total; coal, £147.183;
copper, £64,833; tin, £49,101; lead ore.
£12,033; tantalite, £9375 ; silver, £22,258;
pig lead, £74,930. All the principal gold-
fields showed decreases. Gold-mining leases
decreased by 2816 acres during the year, but
for other minerals there was an increase of
823 acres. Prospecting areas covered 17.520
acres, including 9516 for coal and oil. The
number of men gold-mining w-as 1499 fewer.
Decreased production from nearly all the
fields in the State is attributed to dearth of
competent labor and high cost of material
and supplies. The Department admits that
no improvement can be looked for until the
war is over. The 32 State batteries showed
a loss on the year of £6189. Assistance ren-
dered to struggling lease-holders for develop-
ment, plant erection and boring absorbed
£3586, and an additional £lBOl was ex-
pended in subsidies for water supply, long
distance cartage of ore, etc.
Westralia produced gold to the value of
£2,083,376 during the first half of this year,
or £146,914 less than for the corresponding
portion of 1916. Every field wilted, except
Yilgarn. On June 30 the total gold yield of
the State had reached just on £132,000,900.
W. J. Loring now manages the Plymouth
Consolidated, California, in which the Sons of
Gu-alia and other Westralian gold-mining
concerns hold big interests. Last year’s
receipts totalled £141.724, of which £36.000
w-as distributed in dividends. It w-as on this
show? that Loring began mining.
New Boddington (W.A.), which claims to
have made £3OOO out of ore treatment in the
last four months, discloses its financial posi-
tion. Liabilities are £850: cash in hand.
£1000; and stock, stores, etc., £2OO. Devel-
opment of the tw?o main reefs, which owing
to lack of funds has been delayed, is to be
pushed ahead.
Admirers of Edna May Junction (W.A.)
have again fallen in. Recently a new? reef
was alleged to have been discovered on the
co.’s Westonia delusion. The co. is stated
to have lodged £250 in cash and 2000 shares
in the bank for the discoverers if the alleged
reef proved payable at a depth of 50ft. The
usual market flutter follow?ed and certain
people are said to have made money. Now
the management reports that there isn’t any
reef at the spot indicated, and no one seems
to want the shares.
Treasurer Bigjohn Forrest has agreed to
the registration of a Westralian venture pro-
moted by Dr. Laver and known as the Melba
Proprietary. The co. has a nominal capital
of £5500 in 55,000 2s. shares, and has been
formed to work six outback leases at Binti
Binti. Reports state that the reefs—there are
several—range from 2ft. to sft. and assay up
to 20z.. while in certain spots 3oz. ore is
obtainable. A complete 10-head mill has
been purchased on a neighboring field, and
w-ill shortly be removed to the co.’s holding.
If optimism goes for anything the show- will
bloom like a rose.
Commodore, Meekatliarra (W.A.), is out
with another 6d. call, and the Sydney and
Perth crowd that butted in on the yarn of
years and years of work at the newly-bought
Maequarrie lease w?ant somebody to produce
the 100,000 tons said to be in the claim. It
is there, no doubt; but on oast vieMs it
might as w?ell be in the road-metal dump.
There is a rumor that Trude is sick of
things, and that Perth broker Mellor is now
the “big pot” of the show?. If so he should
have the mine sampled before putting on
more plant. Meanwhile shares have got to
the auction stage for calls. This is often
the penultimate sign of dissolution.
King of Creation. Laverton (W.A.). is not
only to tonic up the T.vrconnel North, if it
can. but is also to put management fees into
Alec Peacock’s big crop. Tom Nichols’s
smile did more, probably, to carry the option
through and land the property on to the Tyr-
connel North than the King of Creation’s
average of 15dw?ts. for 801 tons. Nichols has
bustled a shaft dow?n away to the north of
w?here all the old gouging had been done, and
now- his tale is that he has got a big reef
hugging the jasper formation. He talks
2oz. stuff, but a cruel world just listens and
sells. To settle things NichPls should be
given a battery and a sampler the lattei
first.
* *
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : Some gaudy wires
are being sent East concerning Tryconnel
North’s King of Creation lease at Erlistoun,
beyond Laverton (W.A.). Values are re-
ported to range from ioz. to 2oz. over a
width of 6ft., and specimens from the reef
are said to contain coarse gold. But the
show? is in a locality where shoots suddenly
vanish and are not found again.
“Jago”: The you-wait-a-bit lines graven
during the past s'x months on the faces of
the Edna Deep punters are fretting out under
the anxiety caused by the absence of bite
in Bob Stuckey’s bottom-crosscut bulletins.
Tw?o-ounee stuff at least w-as wanted, and
the sdwt. start cave a certain fat party of
the Melbourne vestibule acute spasms. The
temporary lapse into 30dwt. dirt helped the
patient a bit; but Friday’s wire that 13ft.
of the reef was worth only 50s. brought
about another smart relapse. The fact is
Stuckey’s assays have never given the pun-
ters a chance. The reef looks to have been
got about 50ft. from the Edna Central fence,
and it is the hungry quartz and the absence
of mineral that hearten the bears. Such a
lot depends on the Deeps that it is a wonder
mining touts have deserted Westonia. Not
a good sign this, especially when Central
should be looked to make a splash upon hit-
ting the new reef —which should be pretty-
soon—in its crosscut. The truth is the
gentle public is off Westonia. and some hard-
hit souls are not dropping tears because
the early-biras are loaded up with Deep scrip
which no one covets.
Tiie Bulletin coukl never get enthusi-
astic about the Bronco leases at South Yil-
garu (W.A.), and it looks as if the Mararoa,
which at present has them under option,
isn't inclined to be, either. A report credited
to the general manager of the co. states that
values are “not so good as anticipated,” and
that "it is improbable” that any sale will be
effected.
Since the late Charlie Kaufmann floated
the Ivanhoe (W.A.) 17 years ago nearly? 8-if
millions sterling have been extracted from
its workings and £3,565,000 paid in divs.
Figures taken from last year’s balance-sheet
show that at December 31 last the co. had,
apart from mine, plant, equipment, etc.,
approximately half a million pounds in sight,
£42,590 in stores, £164,435 in miscellaneous
securities, £82,756 in cash and bullion, and
£13,595 out on short loan. Its liabilities on
that date were: sundry creditors, £9858;
unclaimed dividends, £9507.
Although the Tasmania Mine, Beaconsfield
(Tas.), has been closed down for four years,
the co. still grinds two or three thousand a
month out of the old tailings. An attempt
is being made to resurrect the North Tas-
mania, which has done a bit of work on a
reef containing galena and a few dwts. of
gold. But Lewis is not looking kindly on
grants in aid of mining ventures these days;
and the holders seem to be reiving on State
help.
Shareholders in Bound Hill (Tas.) were
beginning to look for their first dividend ; but
the smelting c-o. has torpedoed their hopes by
ordering them to reduce their output. The.
same ultimatum affects the Magnet and the
North Mount Farrell. The latter has already
paid off a number of men. Hughes was sup-
posed to have settled the metal trouble early
in the war, but at last there is a suspicion
among the small mines that all he has done
is sell them into the hands of the smelters.
At Mount Elliott smelting works (Q.)
they did nothing in the way of production
last month. Most of the men were new at
the work and things did not run smoothly.
Two forehearths, which were lined with
chrome, tamped in, could not stand the vol-
ume of slag and matte that was passing
through the forehearth, and were lost. So
the works were closed until the arrival of
chrome bricks from the South. The fore-
hearths are now? being lined with these
bricks. All the ore bins are full of ore. and
the reserve ore-ramp is chock-a-block. There
must be in the vicinity of 25,000 tons of
about 5 p.c. ore now at grass and in the bins.
* * * • *
Finality has not been reached with re-
gard to the construction of a tramline to the
Trekelano, the promising property owned by
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.). But negotiations
are still in progress. Hitherto the ore has
been removed by traction-engine. The mine
is only? partly developed and very little stop-
ing has been done* so it is impossible to say
what is the extent of the bulge of ore 44ft.
wide exposed in one of the crosscuts. The
opening of the lode at 400 ft. has been com-
menced. The deepest ley-el in the Hampden
Co.’s Duchess is 1000 ft (unpayable), in the
Hampden 500 ft. (payable), in the Trekelano
400 ft. (unproved), and in the MacGregor
230 ft. (payable).
Gympie has turned over in its sleep. No.
2 N. Columbia has crushed 120 tons for
19500 z. amalgam! Shareholders expect an
increased dividend, and shares are selling at
7s. to Bs.
“Misima”: The development of B. H.
Block 10’s show at St. Aignan (Misima,
Papua) goes on steadily, and splendid work
is being done by general-manager Ward. The
erection of the plant is being pushed on
with vim. Tramway lines are being built to
the harbor, there is talk of connecting the
island with Australia by wireless, and quite
a town is growing on the hills. Papua could
do with a few more enterprises handled this
way.
“Tropicus” discusses rubber v. copra:—
I pin my faith to rubber. This Crop comes into
partial bearing in four years. Taking plantation
rubber at 2s. 6d. per lb. and costs at Is., the
profit in the 4th year is £3 las. per acre; in the
sth year, £5 2s, 6<l. ;in the sixth, £9 7s. 6d. To
bring' Para rubber into full bearing costs about £lB
an acre. Consequently after the sixth year (the
third year of tapping) the planter has received his
capital back and should have some .£9 l Os. per acre
profit. And this sum goes on increasing, while the
costs of production remain about the same.
Vow look at the coeoanut. The capital cost per
acre to bring a plantation into bearing in the ninth
year after planting is, with good management,
approximately £24. A lot is said about cocoanuts
bearing at six years, but this is only in the case of
freak trees; odd trees all over a plantation will
produce a poor-quality nut at their fifth year, but
the general run of the trees do not produce a com-
mercial nut until after the eighth year. Allow 3000
nuts to the acre, equal to * ton of copra, which at
average price for the last two years is worth about
£ll in Sydney ( £22 per ton). The profit per acre
at this yield is £9 10s., after allowing £3 a ton
for production costs. Deduct £i for freight on
the product to Australia, freights from Papua being
£2 per ton, leaving £8 10s. profit per acre. This
is the maximum profit obtainable, because the yield
of copra does not increase each year like rubber
does.
The land for rubber is here in Papua, the labor
is available in Papua; all that is needed is the
Australian with money to invest in Australia’s island
territory.


Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE
<-MAMPAGHt
Qftrleslieidsie*
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
ALLAN’S
DANCE
ALBUM
N° 19.
CONTAINS:
THE SECRET’*—Waltz Hampton Wood
‘PAIR ITALY” Varsovianna G. Fetras
FLASH JACK” Polka J. Rolfe
LOVE’S MESSAGE Waltz G. Kingsley
PHANTOM BRIGADE” One Step Clark
’FORTY WINKS Schottische A. Tones
’BRAVE WARRIORS”March H. Kendall
WHISTLING JIM” Dance Characteristic
Harold Lindsay
‘ SONNY AUSTRALIA' 'Waltz T. Andrews
‘ GLORIOUS VICTORY” Two-Step
S. Wallace
, VERDI WALTZ ” Waltz A. Williams
SONGS OF ANZAC” Lancers A. Adam
Sold by all Music Sellers.
Price. 1/3; posted, 1/5
Violin Part, 1/3; Cornet Part 1/3
HOME-MADE COUGH DROPS.
A RECIPE EVERY MOTHER SHOULD
KEEP.
( ough drops suitable for both children and
adults can easily and quickly be prepared at
home by pouring ,*i few drops of bitrate of tar
on a lump uf sugar. Let this dissolve slowly
in tlie mouth, and as it dissolves so the heal-
ing and soothing virtues of the pine tar will
penetrate to every part of the throat, chest
and lungs.
Bitrate of Tar is useful in a hundred diff-
eient ailments, and it is no wonder chemists
are experiencing difficulty in meeting the de-
maud. Half a teaspoonful poured into a
bowl of boiling water produces a healing
. a P or which, when inhaled, gives quick relief
aifi? aSeS Lead, bronchitis,
astiima cte while it is we]l known that 2 0 z.
o bitrate ot tar, Boz. of sugar and half-pint
or not water produce, at a total cost of about
rour shillings, a pint of cough syrup far
•'uperior to the ready-made mixtures com-
posed of drugs, and at considerably less than
tiie price usually charged for the ready-made
frL+i *i . lke a Vrap by dissolving the sugar
", water, and then add the bitrate of
~“ r well, and when cold it is ready for
, ■ Ihe pleasant flavor and aroma of this
home-made cough syrup make it very
ccpptable to children, to whom it may be
safely given.—Advt.
PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (a CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, July 16, 1917.
My Dear Abini, —
After dreadful threats of rain there was
a glorious dawn for France. At noon the
din of bands ceased, to give the orators a
chance to “open - ’ the day. But the sun had
attended to that little matter six hours
earlier. Stall-holders were unpacking their
stuff while the milk clattered round the city,
and the early bird who tried to flutter un-
molested into his office found out who was
the worm. A display of Triangle Day
trophies was no help. “Pay up!” said the
damsel in the French cap.
The decorated cars —Rupert Minnett, of
the Auto Club, in charge—were tethered out-
side the Art Gallery till their names and
aspirations were taken down. “Canary Cot-
tage” 11. showed Alfred Firth in a wobbly
cage, looking happier than the luckless fowl,
painted in French colors, which scratched its
prison floor overhead. Field Fisher’s expan-
sive smile and Dot Brunton’s glittering teeth
beamed over this part of the proceedings.
A huge car, “The Golden Lilies of France,”
was the popular choice for first prize. But
it had to go home 'with an honorable men-
tion. The conqueror was a handsome chaise
(J. Jackson, owner), buried in the tricolor,
with British bunting in support. A shiver-
ing Cupid, the morning being sharp for a
Paradise toilet, kept on smiling as the pale
pink (and blue) sign on a second “Lilies of
France” car. The interpid youngster stood
at his post with the breeze making his goose-
flesh quiver. Behind him were winged damsels
who had taken the precaution to wear more
drapery. The prize for Best Original fell to
Cupid and his lady friends. The Anzac
Buffet, Miss Evans a-glitter as Britannia,
was another feature of the parade.
The Hayseeds—the missus beaming in a
bonnet and entirely surrounded by flaming
red curls and little Hayseeds—rumbled gaily
along in the decorated motor section. They
own up to the name of Johnston and their
flocks are white on Queensland hills.
The Imperial Arcade (Mrs. Plogsted the
ehieftainess) had a line of straw-thatched
stalls that began at Castlereagh-street and
finished near Pitt. Any pocket that passed
through without losing a silver coin had been
made by Chubb. The Village Fair, at Mac-
quarie-street, raged for cash from dewy morn
to electric-spangled night. The oyster of
the fair was at Maxim’s Caffi. Here, at
noon, hearty citizens struggled for seats to
eat-—for France !
The Red Cross V.A.D. girls surged round
Circular Quay. Towards evening, pros-
perous homing males began to moan to them.
“Haven't a bean left.” “We’ll take that
watchehain,” answered a brisk lass to one
limp citizen, who hurriedly found a shilling.
Shimizu, surrounded by pretty flappers
in kimonos, had a four-deep swarm—chiefly
in sac suits —to buzz around the honey.
-Mrs. Tower, over the road, with Mrs. King
and Mrs. Maclean, sold mandarins (no allu-
sion to China) by the half-penny. This
dodge meant that passers-bv tossed the cop-
pers and left the goods to be sold again.
Martin Place was the kitchen of the city.
Here patient women went on frying “chips”
while hollow schoolboys burnt their tongues
for the cause. Mrs. Guthrie and Mrs. Syd
were in charge of the waffles pan.
Hilda Caro passed the coffee out of a grunt-
ing kitchen on wheels.
The old Sirius anchor in Macquarie Place
had to bear the indignity of an art-muslin
singlet. The wattle shed its velvet tassels
a yard or two away, at the foot of Mort’s
statue, where Ella Richards and Double
Bay V.A.D. maidens sold flowers, tame and
wild.
Miss Neill’s stall was the richer for £.70
gn en bv the London Bank—possibly through
a gentle hint from Mrs. Millett. a hefty
worker at. this pirate’s lair. “£162 banked
at lunch-time,” said Mrs Bonthorne behind
a box of French buttons ; and there was £330
by night.
One exclusive boarding-house saw the
chance of a ripping advt. and gave its name
stall run by the “house-party ”
Boarders?” Heavens, no! Why, they put
hats and gloves to call on
the lady in the next bedroom at these really
tony mansions of the blest-with-cash
The war-trophies housed in the Education
Building were on view for a week, with
Beulah Bolton in charge. The honey that
accrued went to the Red Cross for trances
day. Railway-Commissioner Milne s son
sent some weird samples of Turkish inge-
nuity. probably made in Germany. Innocent
looking cricket-balls and jam-tins that would
blow vou to smithereens were in this lot.
Messrs. Cowles and Dunn and Dr. Herscheil
Harris, Mrs. Street, Mrs. Guthrie and Mrs.
F. S. Champion were in the long list of those
who forwarded Turkish Delights and German
gunpowder kisses.
A man in a straw hat and smoke-blue suit
sang something or other, while an accom-
panist jingled out the tune. A girl in Nor-
mandy garb, with feet shod in sabots (it was
Gladys Hay), presently took the arm of a
soldier, and the piano threw a waltz,,
challenge, at the company in Maxim’s, bo
the few eligible dancing men crooked their
elbows at adjacent damsels and whirled
round. It was supper-time, and the big tent,
which coined money under the quick eye of
Mrs. Maclurcan, throbbed with the Mds of
patriots who tossed £BO together for a I rench
Hag. Nellie Leach, Colin Crane and Leah
Myers raised their voices in turn, and the
drowsy odor of a fish cafe stole up to
Heaven through a tarpaulin roof.
The fcafe Chantant in the Australia win-
ter-garden exuded money from three in the
afternoon till midnight, The tickets to the
evening show cost 10s. (id. apiece. But
that was a mere humble beginning; for, once
inside, the affluent were bidden by haughty
maidens to pay fabulous prices for the same
old trifles that had been pushed under the
public nose all day. As the evening wore on
the Very Rich began to moan, “No more
money”—as if that would temper the gale
to the shorn pastoralist. Mrs. Harry Austin
—shortly off to .Java on a health trip-—did
the bullocking for this affair. Wealth
gleamed on society’s diamond-pendant bosom.
Ermine was there in its snowy luxury by the
countless tail. Tenor Philip Wilson warbled
of sky-blue water, and Mrs. Philip sang of
the melancholy Melisande. Mrs. Bertie Kelly
recited with merciful brevity ; Miss Puech in
amethyst drapery floated to the piano to ac-
company Goossens. and Stael fiddled behind an
ecclesiastical stand that everybody forgot to
auction. Mrs. George Vivers, in emerald-green,
wore the velvet band that lies like a mil-
liner’s benediction on the brows of our fair-
est. Mrs. Angel Money sat with Mrs.
Charles Waldron and Auntie Brunton. About
£4OO was got by the evening frolic.
The Town Hall held a good audience for
the July 14 entertainment. Liberty (Mrs.
Michael Dalton), with a mane of hair float-
ing down her back, led the procession of
nations —practically a repetition of the Red
Cross tableaux at the Glaciarium on June
21. Having slowly advanced to her throne
in front of the organ, Liberty struck the
picturesque pose of the famous statue. The
nations (Scotland was represented by the
Town Hall Sewing Guild, with the Highland
Society to assist) then ducked their heads
to the handsome lady with the spiked mil-
linery. and bustled into their seats on the
platform.
Verbrugghen and a couple of musicians
camped in back seats of the Eastern Gallery
till the pageant was over. Later the Con-
servatorium boss led his string orchestra
through delightful melody. Alfred Hill
steered the Apollos, - Jenny Cullen fiddled
her best. Pianist Yvonne Charvin supplied
rippling harmony; Goossens and Rosa Alba
were in the aviary. On the padded seats of
State were the French League executive.
Miss Soubeiran and her mate Miss Gurney,
Mrs. Playoust, Mrs. Jewett, the French
Consul, Neville Mayman and his tall lady
—in short, all the nobility and gentry.
Stanley Warwick opened the ball by politely
requesting the nobility not to stand on their
chairs when the procession passed because it
was so bad for the wicker.
The well- fitted
American stand in
Moore-street did a
roaring trade. Its
chief was Mrs. Brit-
tain, wife of the
U.S.A. Consul-Gen-
eral. Here’s her pic-
ture. A Virginian by
birth, she has the
soft Southern voice
which even hurried
Mrs. Harriet Beecher
Stowe paused to
listen to while she
was collecting copy
for “Uncle Tom.”
Educated in Ohio at
the Oberlin Univer-
sity. Mrs. Brittain
retains the velvet
manner which writers of Southern romance
usually throw in when they settle down to
describe the heroine. As she is president of
the American-Australian League of Help, the
recent entry of Uncle Sam into the war
brings the lady into line with the foremost of
our Allies’ war-workers.
War Chest stalls, under the headship o
Mrs. Aiitill, took (roughly speaking) ibW-
Of this sum £215 was made by the two little
benches in King-street under the supen, sio
of Mesdames Macleod, Floyd and Donald
Mackey. One worker alone sold £BO wort
of buttons. The doll (all-wool _ clad > cx
hibited in Stott and Hoare s wmdow Was
raffled last Saturday at YJ ar Chesty head
quarters, and was won by Miss INancy la
tridge, of Killara.
Mrs. Harwood and daughter Phyllis took
over the heavy job of keeping tag ot tne
buttons. But in the end they couldn t
satisfy the cry, “Give us more.
The Union Frangaise gave a midday snack
at Paris House on Saturday to July J-ji
workers. The Martin Place orators ran to
words, as usual, and Consul Chayet had to
dash off post-haste.
In the afternoon a big crowd gathered
round the slender column inscribed with
the name of La Perouse. Three tall pines
stand in the enclosure, and on the sward
wreaths were laid by the Veterans’ Associa-
tion and Australian admirers of the great
French navigator. A choir of school-kiddies
piped patriotic lays. The Cullens arrived at
3.30, and Commandant Lee hurried forward.
Mrs. Hugh Hixson and Mrs. Ruttei. who
pushed the Veterans' end of the party, were
in the forefront. After Deputy-Gov. ( ullen
had addressed the company. David Store}’,
under the brim of his best grey hat. said the
usual thing. Staff-surgeon Brennand,
R.A.N., lean and wiry, and not long back
from active service on 11.M.A.5. Chasem,
and J. A. Hogue (Historical Society) also
talked. Across a patch of water the
aborigines' camp showed curling clouds of
smoke above red roofs.
At present the unkempt sward around La
Perouse’s monument is no credit to anyone.
But in recognition of France’s supreme
efforts for civilisation an acre of the untidy
waste is to blossom with rose and lily, and
is to be then given in perpetuity to the
French.
The much-travelled daughter of Hanbury
Davies, just back from war-work in Cairo,
will make but a brief stay in Australia,
having bestowed her hand on a soldier-man
who hails from India. There will be a very
quiet wedding at'St. Mark’s, Darling Point,
next week (25th), and a very brief ’moon
before embarkation for Bombay.
Manager Freddie Shipman and his little
fair-haired Honey are back from a tour of
the Java-Shangliai-Manila circuit. In Shang-
hai the concert co. debated seriously as to
extending the season and going on to Tientsin
and Pekin. But Dufault decided that he
must get back to his farm in Canada for a
summer holiday. Which was lucky for every-
body ; for uneasy China broke out into its
present revolutionary rash soon after. In
Shanghai, which has only 14,000 Europeans,
tenor Paul gave nine concerts and so set up
a record. He is now collecting eggs
and maple sugar about 300 miles beyond
Montreal; and I would so like to get a pic-
ture of the costume he does it in. In Java
he was so punctilious that he insisted on
singing in black heavy evening garments, all
efforts to entice him into the more comfort-
able and universally-worn “ducks” failing.
How could they ask him to so insult the
ladies of his audience? he wanted to know’.
The Arts and Grafters have moved into
the heart of the city—Penfold’s Buildings in
Pitt-street. Take the lift. They’re doing
nicely, thank you, in their new nest. In
their latest work they show the cutest tea
trays of stained wood with raffia bulwarks
in _ deep blue and brown. Teacups are
painted to match these aesthetic affairs.
St. Philip’s Church was dressed in blooms
for the wedding of a good-looking Orange girl,
Dorothy Sylvia Glasson, and Michael Dry-
burgh, .of Batavia. The bridal plumage w 7 as
white tulle, a-glitter with silver wheat-ears,
billowing over a shimmer of satin. The
train was one of those complications of pink
ninon and frotfiy lace which waggle behind
the smart modern bride. Party at Petty’s.
For doing something special with his
machine-gun, Cedric Morrison, corporal, had
the Military Medal hooked on to his tunic
the other day. Corporal Cedric, only 22
now, joined in at half-time on Gallipoli, and
remained there till the evacuation. In quieter
times he inks a nib at the Births. Deaths
and Marriages office at the top of King-
street.
The widow of the late T. S. Clibborn died
at Turramurra on July 13. He was for
years secretary of the A.J.C. at Randwick ;
she was a Magan, of Brookfield, Co. West-
meath, a family of very ancient lineage.
Stanley Vere Toose. associate to Justice
Gordon, met Gladys Burcher, of Mosman. at
St. James s, last Wednesday, and promised
to_ look after her for ever and ever. The
bridal array was all satin hung with filmy
lace and pearls; the bridesmaidens w’ero in
mauve, with black hats, and Empire sticks
to lean on. The two-Toose are seeing the
honeymoon from Kosciusko, where the snow
carnival is in full swing.
Eileen daughter of Captain Milling, of
Strathfaeld, has given her promise to Can-
«V n X" tinkler, who also belongs to
Strathfield and a few months back acquired
the Military Cross for things done in France
He was of Gallipoli, too.
. Young Alan Binnie. who left Oxford to
join in the early rush for King Edward’s
Horse, afterwards went to Gallipoli with
British gunners. Upon recovering from
damages there he grew wings in the Royal
Fh-ing Corps. He is now reported wounded,
with a Military Cross to his credit and the
ank of flight-captain. .Father is George
Finnic, who sends the lug wool-clips from
Quirindi way.
Vn Vctive Service Officers’ Club is in the
incubator in Sydney. The prelnmnary secre-
tarial work is being done by Lieut. G. H.
Wilson i Cheltenhara-road, Furwood, finds
him when he isn’t at No. 4 Hospital deciding
what pension the remnants of Billjim de-
serve). and he will answer all questions re
brands of liquor to be kept, limit of cash
actions etc The club-rooms will be
somewhere in the city, and when they’ve got
them the returned officers will have a better
chance to comfortably swap lies round a
bottle of limcjuice.
When the Gerrnau
guns surrounded
Paris in the war of
IS7O-J, a little girl
of 10 suddenly be-
o a in e a woman.
Like other sensitive
French children, she
caught the gloom of
her parents. Tears
fell faster as the day
approached when
“Can we hold out
much longer?” was
answered by “We
cannot!” A few
years later Angele
came with her rela-
tives to Australia,
and married Mr.
Iliginbotham. “Yet,
after 40 years in this beautiful country
which I love,” sighs the Frenchwoman whose
photo, (by Falk) is enclosed, ‘‘l never forget
the horrors of those dreadful days in Paris,
when even children choked at the food set
before them. And the last days—just before
the end —when one saw.the bravest fainting
in the streets from starvation ! We had to
give in! In 1912 I revisited Paris. Per-
haps the old horror seized my imagination !
I trembled with fear. ‘There is going to
be another war —they are coming back.’ I
said. But men who were in positions of
responsibility laughed at my terrors. ‘You
recall the siege, Madame. But to-day V
There will be no more war. for such a war
would .be impossible—it would smash —de-
stroy —Europe!’ And now! Mon Dieu!”
One of the early members of the French
League executive in Sydney, this impas-
sioned patriot fills every spare moment with
work for the widows and orphans of France.
“And I shall —is it not certain? —live to see
our implacable invaders beaten!’'
Little Mac-kay Baldry, stretching his pink
toes on Wallandoon station, is the very new
son of Lieut. Baldry and first grandson of
Kenneth Mackay, M.L.C. This little Aus-
tralian is the fourth generation of Mackays
born on the old station.
Caps of every species were set at guileless
young men who wandered forth alone. About
the most fascinating lure was the goffered
frill, bound with tricolor ribbon, on the
heads of the French League cafe girls. There
was no crown to this bit of muslin witchery.
Puffs of carefully-dressed hair filled the
vacuum.
In the Cumberland were nearly 10,000
pairs of socks and 200 cases of comforts from
the Mar Chest Fund. Besides, there are
battalions in half-mourning for their cases of
stuff, now soaked in brine at Gabo Island.
But there is insurance to mitigate the loss.
lion, treasurer Bryant mentions £56,740
as the total given by the public to date to
the Australian Air Squadron Fund. Of this
£54,051 has already flown to the War Office
on the wings of 18 battleplanes.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


——• civt, /Sci&A&io-r
a * ** £* r fya/~- — 'ff&ic/u/A&t Hafipe+ui'!
H
'2LA
I)*”
=y
e w&s b. confirmed old Bachelor vritkold fashioned
habits. He had av/ell furnished Flat. plenty of money,
6nd eye for &. pretty girl.
m*'-
n
F«t -she sacked his old Housekeeper
32sid she’d rzdher do the Yfork herself vdlK
modem && Appli^ces.
At.
L>
■
i
forthwith she bought fc.
IROtt bnd
ironed oreiylluhf)
including bU hex Me frilfy
were bnumber
of them) bndbil his Shirb.
3he found it no effort-
A. ELECTRIC 1R0N.15 X>
delightfully iohbndlebhd
So rbpid.debn, and effective.
(fQiid. d&f he met Vivi£>r\ - or
r&lher-she met him - She'd Kid
her eye oh him for some time.
n
r
r>
i
a
Ii wssht long) before Vivian mamed him
&nd She soon look charge of ftxz. FI&L
approved of most of ike furniture.but she ciit out ike 5*6 and had BLECTRKITy inS-
She bought Some g - Semi-indirect Fittings, and she put &&.BDISOH LAMPS
in two rooms. and STH-./AAZDA LAMPS in ihe others. It was such a brilliant and beautifa!
light that the Oldberys,wrinKles disappeared. He got 9iiite enthusiastic when
She boated a ELECTRIC TOASTERr Had he been a Poet he would have written a
Sonnet on ihe delicious Crisp toast it made-or if Fete had ordained him to be ah
Artist he would have painted a full length portrait of the TOASTER.
Then she £>ot rid of
all his old brooms and
installed a %& VACUUM
CLEAKEU. The cleanli-
ness of that flat was the
envy cf all their friends
2nd She hardly liked to
tell them what little
time it took to do.
7
/
i,
/ / •
a
Julius.
Lastly. sKe objected to Ihe dirt and untidiness of he old coal
fire She had RADI/OTORS instiled throughout the.
fled".
l 'Hy Dear ” the Old Bqy'iti too sood of you to study my
comfort So much."
"Hot at all "replied Vivian. tt Ive been tbinhing of my own a. little you
Know. I doht See why amodem woman heed tie herself down to
domestic Slavery when there's Such an institution as the
Austfiauah General, Electric Company:"
Austrian- General Electric^
( Wentworth Ay Sydney, O? of Queen c. Little Collins St Melbourne.
OTHER AGENTS:
HEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical * Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co. ; Ltd., Launceston; Mesfers. OllTer
and Oliver, MacQuarle Street. Hobart.
OTH ER AGENTS:
BRISBANE <Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (ESC-A.).
Ltd.,, corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.)! Chas. Atkins * Co. (W.A.). Ltd.. Hay Street.
A DDL AIDE (3~A.): Cnbebaun & Johnstone. 100 Currie Street.


081
OBJ
obu
OB 6
08/2
OBJ
08/3
Farmer's
u NOTED
Victaria”tlouse Brians
WE PAY
CARRIACE
mrwißar,
weewtß*,
A
wmttrr
N.AW,
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
PIPES OF
CHARACTER
FARMER’S NOTED
“VICTORIA HOUSE”
Briar Pipes, with Ster-
ling Silver Bands and
Best Vulcanite Mouth-
pieces, as illustration.
Nos. 083 to OBIS—
—3/.
Nos. 081, and OB2—
'PRICE 3/3
TH E LYRIC AY D
GOODY 00 D speci illv
selected French Briar-
-00 ( > Pipes, with
Hand-cut Vulcanite
Uouthpieees, arid Ster-
ling Silver Rands.
Nos. 083 to OBI.'
PRICE 3/3
Nos. 081 to oB2—.
PRICE 6/3
SORELLE
announce the opening of their
Spring Show
To-day, Thursday, 19th July,
at their Rooms, T. & G. Buildings,
Park Street, Sydney.
The Price of
Economy in
Dress need not
be Mediocrity.
BUCKLEY’S
TAILORING
MEANS THE BEST AT
A MODERATE COST.
ft
i >
8571. —A Business Suit
in a Large and Choice
\ ariety of Suitings,
44/-
WRITE FOR OUR
WEN’S and BOYS’
CLOTHING CATALOG
JUST ISSUED.
POSTED FREE.
MELBOURNE’S
LOWEST PRICES ALWAYS.
BUCKLEY S NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, July 16, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Parliament took off its coat for a second
session the other Wednesday, so there had to
be another procession up Collins-street. Lady
Helen, in the motor, alongside her feathered
spouse, wore a waving ruche of peacock-
green ostrich feathers wound round a wide
black straw hat. The G.-G.’s scarlet-and-
white plumes looked almost quiet by con-
trast.
A crowd of fashionables climbed the
white marble steps to take tea after the
wooden old ceremony. Alelba was there
heavily cloaked and closely bonneted. Lady
Susan wore a black-straw belltopper above
her ’possum-skins. Peggy Center was under
an inverted bucket of rose-colored straw
which concealed everything but the dimple
in her chin. The Forrest dame, as usual,
headed a big party of flappers with niece
Aluriel. The Aladden dame was severe and
chilly in lavender and black. Airs. Keating,
over from the Apple Island, set a high stan-
dard of tailoring.
So ended Round I. in the Winning of the
War.
There is a cheery absence of swank about
Lady Doris. Convoyed by the D’Erlanger
lady and gent, help Ilaskett-Smith, she
hopped into the South Melbourne Town Hall
on Wednesday night to play leading lady at
the local Queen Carnival in aid of the
Christian Brothers’ School. She led the
procession in stage royal trappings. There
were six lesser queens and a posse of ladies-
in-waiting, Alaggie Alossop being in close
attendance on the star performer.
The French Red Cross had a field day on
Saturday. There were no buttons, but plenty
of concerts and speeches. Gaud Mayor
Hennessy and some others made appropriate
remarks before the statue of Joan of Arc at
the Gallery, and the Town Hall was
crammed all the afternoon. Alelba had pro-
mised to sing, and sing she did, though she
had to get out of a sick-bed to do it, motoring
straight home again when her turn was
over. She was suffering greatly with her
throat; but her listeners could not detect
any hoarseness, and made her sing thrice and
then give an encore. Friend Cyril Maude
stood by to speak a piece if she should feel
too ill at the last moment.
The Hennessy dame, in petunia red and
carrying red posies, sat with Airs. Flicbg,
the French Vice-ConsuI f s wife. Airs. Crivelli
and her pretty daughter were well to the fore
in programme and raffle affairs. Airs. AVeigall
was kept busy as one of the vice-presidents.
Mrs. Trenery, Airs. Artaud, Airs. Blackwood
and Airs. Woolf were all ticketed with the
tricolor committee badge. ATrs. Fred Fair-
bairn and Airs. D’Orgeval worked hard;
so did Airs. Davenport and Dr. Helen Sexton.
The L. K. S. Alackinnons, I.ascelles, Brod-
ribbs and Riddell Stanleys were others who
gave the Grand National and Flemington the
go-by in order to support the French func-
tion.
The French National Day appeal finished
up at the Playhouse with a not too French
comedy, “Le A’oyage de AI. Perrichon.”
Every time the French auditors shrieked
with laughter the Australians, who are
learning the language, were tickled to death
—and then secretly consulted one another
as to where the joke happened. You see,
the reserved seats were half a guinea each’
which demanded that Sassiety should know
all about it.
The G.-G. was present, but Lady Helen
was too worried and sad to come. Her
brother had just been reported missing. The
popular young man was here when the war
started, and at once bolted for his regiment
in England. Lady Blackwood followed very
soon, and started war work. The G.-G.
looked Scotchly at the French frivolity, but
managed several smiles at the Hennessy
dame’s apt translations. She is one of the
genuine French students, and sat wrapped
in enjoyment and an ermine cape. A box
was occupied by French naval officers and
French girl friends. All the boxes with gold
lattice-work screeps were full. Handsome
Rene Vanderkelen played the hero’s part.
Napoleon Boffard had a stage job in which
he had to wear leggings. They fretted
him greatly, for his understandings scarcely
came up to Collins-street expectations. The
dainty Henriette (Mrs. J. Dumont) made a
sensation with her flapper costumes. One
had an apron all daintily threaded and
embroided with cherry pink.
Ihe Grand National Steeplechase drew a
big crowd to Flemington on Saturday, and
the gate money poured into the Repatriation
1 und. The Rajah of Pudukota won the
Double, the Grand National falling- easily to
Old Alungindi, while King Alostyn loped
home at 10 to 1 in the Doutta Galla
Hurdle. Not that the betting price
mattered much to the Rajah—he rarely
bets. . The Ranee was snugly trim in
navy blue with a toy hat ‘ bound to
her head by one of the latest things in figured
veils. She was due for a new diamond tiara
after the triumphant day. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald wore a startling Napoleon hat
and a string of jet beads that outlined all
the front of her white-and-black duds. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme defied the weather from in-
side a marvellous cloak of green velvet
weighted down with a cape and rivulets of
silver fox. Mrs. Herbert followed with six
dozen pelts of sables. Mrs. Tye wore an
ultra-smart collar of seal, which almost ob-
scured the narrow neat coat, and pancaked
her hair under emu feathers laid flat. Mrs.
Westley wore white wings and a fur coat.
Lesley Madden sported a rakishly turned-up
green hat and furs. Melba —keen sport
though she is—turned the meeting down in
order to sing for the Red Cross in town.
Postillion hats had a great vogue. They
took all sorts of queer guises. The O'Hara
colleen had one of straw with a yellow dan-
delion perched on its apex. The little AYest-
ern District Grant gill supported one of
black straw with fluffy white plumes. The
wind was easterly, cold and nippy, and
altered the angles of any new hats it could
get a grip on.
Clifton Boanas, the young Australian com-
poser wjio is beginning to build up a reputa-
tion, gave t/ic dinner-party of the week at the
Occidental last Wednesday, with Mrs. Leslie
Davies, his sister, as hostess. The invitation
cards were taxed half a guinea to help St.
Vincent’s Hospital build a new women’s
ward. (No one frivols these times without
a Purpose.) The Forrest dame was pre-
sent in gorgeous clothes, with a big ruby
blazing on her chest. Lesley Madden was
magnificent in a startling dinner-dress of
puce satin. Mrs. Hidgecock aired a Parisian
black gown dripping off her shoulders with
jet. Airs. Weston Pett, a vision in pale blue,
brought her pretty flapper daughter. Prime
Minister Hughes sent profuse apologies at
the last moment. Airs. Tom White filled
women with envy of a frock of rose-patterned
ivory glacd bunched and hung- on to her
slender shoulders with bright-red coral.
Airs. Barry Thompson's brow blazed with
diamonds. Two sweet nurses raffled bottles
of champagne, and Dr. Lang (in khaki) had
farewell toasts drunk to him. Miss Sheehan
wore autumn-tinted brown chiffon and many
diamonds. Mrs. Pohlman (an ardent worker
for St. Vincent’s) -was in black with dia-
mond highlights. The hostess fluttered
about in cloth-of-gold veiled in black
chiffon, and showed glimpses of gold shoes
and _ stockings. After dinner there xvas a
musicale in the lounge. Di Gilio’s orchestra
played, and set the youngsters dancing wher-
ever they could find space, while the old-
sters lounged to the singing. Kirby sang
divinely, Amadio fluted like a bird among
lovely wattle decorations, and Cyril ALaude
looked in for a little supper before trundling
home to bed.
At the meeting held in the Town Hall on
the Glorious Fourth the most noticeable
thing was the lack of eloquence. Bigjohn
Forrest, whose Falstaffian build leads one to
expect a loud roar, mumbled iu his beard.
W. L. Baillieu, instead of giving a really
interesting display of how he pulls the
strings, as he might have done, read “some-
thing I committed to paper.” As far as his
listeners could learn, it was wastepaper.
Defence Alinister Pearce was a little
brighter; Tudor was a little less than bright.
Sydney’s Gaud Alayor Aleagher was the
oasis. His fine working-bullock voice filled
the. hall, and his audience sat up and took
notice. Then American Consul Magelssen
returned thanks in a strangulated voice, and
Gaud-Mayor Hennessy waved an American
flag convulsively.
The Stanley dame’s Alay appeal for the
British Red Cross, which stretched over
June, to the detriment of local needs, has
swelled to £126.226, with thousands of
pennies from Victorian school-children still
to come in. It does not look as if the
cause was in urgent need of our assistance,
however. Sir Arthur Hodgson has cabled
Governor Stanley saying Victoria will not
be asked for donations to the British Red
Cross. Satisfactory to hear from the State
Ex. that socks sent to Germany were not
interfered with by the Huns, who “re-
spected gifts to prisoners.”
The “House Full” signal flew at Alel-
bourne Town Hall on Tuesday night, when
the concert and demonstration for the
Ragged Boys’ Home happened. It ivas hard
to detect the ex-street boy in the rows of
specklessly clean white-duck suits and blue
ties. The thrilling event was a scramble for
pennies hurled on the stage from the front
during an interval. Three cheers and a tiger
for Alatron Alinton (who graduated from Dr
Barnado s Ragged Boys’ Home) for teaching
our street boys what home can be without a
mother.
Jennie Brenan’s brother Andy, who left
?n 1°915° f l^v A - A - M a C k' Captains Lemnos
in 1915, lately gained his crown, the promo-
tion coming after valuable work iu The
French field hospitals. Latterlv lie has been
doing research work with Prof. Martin, of
Alßf.!" ySter Tj InStltute ' Father was jolly old
Aldeiman Brenan, and mother is one of the
best-known members of the Women’s Hos
pital committee. 10b
Mdile. Adelaide’s confessions:—
The Uni. on Monday returned a dividend of 10
new doctors and one Bachelor of Engineering. Of
the M’s.B. three had been at the Front before retu
ing to finish their course-Dr. Cairns (who is both
a Rhodes and an Everard scholar), Dr. Davies and
Dr. Gault Three M.C.’s have been won by S.A.
medical men on service, and Dr. Burston, who at
least belongs to us by marriage and adoption the
married a Culross and was practising here when he
volunteered), has added to the honorable record by
winning a D.S.O. Monday’s degree-takers are all
ready to go out and win more distinction for the
State.
Saturday’s festivities included a Comforts Fund
Bazaar at the Victoria Hall and a Red Gross and
Comforts Fund carnival at Henley Beach. On the
same evening the Cherniavskys gave their first con-
cert at the Queen’s Hall, with a crowded house to
pfove that we (1) love music, (2) are not yet broke.
Writing of Comforts Funds reminds me that the
Christmas Gifts campaign has opened, and from Mon-
day onwards the Trench Depfit at the Exhibition
Building will be a seething mass of packers. Letters
of gratitude for last year’s Christmas-boxes are still
dribbling in from the men at arms.
Depledge Sykes, who used to be one of our two or
three pulpit orators, is here on his rather roundabout
way from Collins-street to the Congregational Church
at Homebush (N.S.AV.).
The latest batch of J’s.P. adds 14 more women to
the list, including Mrs. Holder, Dr. Gertrude Halley,
Mrs. Christophers (Sec. of the AVin-the-War League),
Mrs. Evelyn O'Leary (Hon. Sec. of the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals Society) and Mrs. Jeanne F.
\ r onng.
The Public Library has received as a gift a peti-
tion dated June 22, 1854, demanding a weekly half-
holiday for law clerks, signed by most of the law
clerks of the day—some of them have since climbed
high bn the legal ladder —and endorsed on the back
with the employers’ consent to the request. From
this is said to have originated the half-holiday
movement in the State. The petition was the pro-
perty of the late Justice Boucaut and has been given
to the library by his son.
Our first Children’s Playground is to be in the
west park lands, where the Corporation has handed
over an acre. Equipment will cost £5OO, and the
Government has promised a subsidy'on anything up
to £250. If the scheme is a success other play-
grounds will be made, and already a block of land
has been set aside for the purpose at Hindmarsh.
France’s Day—as far as a street collection goes—
has been fixed for November, but this Saturday sees
a preliminary in the shape of a collection of good
shcond-hand clothing for despatch to France. The
French Consul is godfather to the scheme.
Capt. Tolcr-Rowley, the Indian Mutiny veteran
who died at thfc beginning of the week, married a
daughter of the late John Stephens, founder and
editor of the Observer and afterwards editor and a
proprietor of the Register.
Mrs. Rumor was at fault when she whis-
pered of two engagements in the Grice
family. I have fined her five shillings—and
myself ten, for not knowing better than to
trust the discredited old lady at this time
of day.
Carmen, the musical daughter of the
Delprat family, is to be married at an early
date. The violinist’s new interest in life is
I*. E. Teppema, a tall, good-looking Dutch-
man who helps to uphold the neutrality of
his country in the Dutch Consulate in this
town. . Young Teppema has been only three
years in Australia, but he is already begin-
ning to call it his own,
J. Dennis was married to pretty
Mrs. Price there were only two guests—
David Low and Hal Gye. After jointly con-
sidering the national value of foodstuffs, the
two artists took the rice to the wedding in
the form of a pudding, and presented it.
pudding-basin and all, to the bride. I think
David was responsible for the suggestion.
Emily Dyason, who is to help the Uni.
Led Cross with a recital at Melba Hall on
Saturday evening, has taken the original
course of press-agenting her own perform-
ance by an article in the Argus. The
Dyason programme is to be entirely filled
with works by Vincent d’lndy, a French
composer, and the pianist has obligingly ex-
plained who d’lndy is and why he did it
Ihe management, by the way, has taken a
iecent Bulletin tip, and notifies that music-
w,-ur^ t 0 souls at d ’ lnd y music.
d, n C l ed 011 to freeze thelr bodies
mad Foley temperature.
Clarice Maly on. an Australian singer
born of French parents, has all the vivacity
and charm of two sunny nations. She is
having a special concert, on July 21. at
of'it' 1 ’ skoi3dd ma be a big success
Melba is off to America soon. She will
give one or more concerts before she leaves,
and the convalescent soldier-pianist St
merUs orkin g on the accompanb
ments. Lady Susan will depart with the
After a recent “Grumpy” matinge Cvril
Speech ° As te a d hi ® usual , before-the-curtain
speech As a matter of fact, he had to
eing held up behind the scenes by a garni-
ie?h"m dy ,/. r r P ;^ lan<i - The S
££*£ SSKSnITaE
to ar see th i£ M ,he d “ f “W I J- t . rc « th ere and then
ance. Ah, she murmured, “he had snob
a nice face and such a coaxing manner!”
~ Charley A\ enrnan, who makes a habit of
hnI 0< K U ° mg D antom imes and musical show^
has been made associate-director of •
J- C. AA llliamson firm, in pl ace 0 f dead
Harold Ashton. Wenmau came here as
manager and producer for Denton, Bode and
Mackenzie, the English theatrical firm which
ran in double harness with the Clarke and
Meynell combination, and he is firmly
anchored. A few years back he married
Flossie Dickinson, now the sedate young
mother of a little Wenman.
The Repertory Theatre girls, Allie Robson
and Isabel and Kathleen Handley, have
arrived in New York. They have been lost,
had their pockets picked and seen the Zeig-
field Follies, who leap at midnight in a roof
garden. O. P. Heggie. the ex-South Aus-
tralian actor who has made a name in Lon-
don and America, has helped the travellers
at the request of his old pal Gregan
McMahon. When the girls want to look for
work they have a letter of introduction to
Pierpont Morgan’s office.
Little Marie Hall, the Bendigo heiress,
married some little time back Lieut. W. J.
Russell Sheppherd, of the Royal Flying
Corps, only brother of actress .Mabel Russell.
Marie was wedded at Christ Church, Down-
street, from sister-in-law’s Mayfair house,
and held a festa afterwards at Hyde Park
Hotel, beloved of Australians. She wore a
gown of Chinese blue charmeuse with a flat
collar of chinchilla and a hat of colored tis-
sue. and carried a sheaf of white lilies. Best
man was Lieut. Hilton Phillipson, Scots
Guards, who scratches along on £15.000 a
year and has since married Mabel Russell.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
-still going strong
- x
' J
fjr.w
< to lJ-
»a-A
rx
—\
r )
>A
**
*
v
•^N
'T
x%
&
&
a
w
; /f
/A
\\
ys
v v
is
I
K
ICO
~ (he ey
«~N»
\
*
“ ‘Apparel oft proclaims the man.
‘‘True. That’s why ‘Johnnie Walker’ is known as the
whisky oi good taste.
TOHN WAT
,KER & SONS, Ltb.. Scotch Whisk* Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scoria


SP
The Company’s
Mail Steamers
leave Sydney
every fortnight.
f*' /
$ m
TRIPS TO THE
rates^ HOLIDAY RETURN TICKETS TO CEYLON
now issued at the following
From SYDNEY
From MELBOURNE
From ADELAIDE .
From FREMANTLE
Ist £l6, 2nd £32
Ist £42, 2nd £3O
Ist £3B, 2nd £2B
Ist £32, 2nd £26
AVAILABLE FOR
SIX MONTHS.
Darwin, Thu„4 KS “etc.’ & ,f SJ& «*» **&
MACDONALD, HAMILTON * CO., 4»*« Pitt St££ l?S?. Vctt^Sn
li
The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
'*'( yifcj /Hanf/ ’ll 1/
tl
?•/! Wt
LET- ME-ALIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The chaplain rode in the sun and the sand
With an open umbrella in one hot hand,
And the other was laid on his horse’s mane
In a careless loop of the lazy rein.
The Sphinx looked down with its age-old stare,
And wondered no doubt what brought him . there.
Now a chaplain’s an excellent fellow at need,
But 1 knew him as well as the next day’s feed,
And where he was going was nothing to me
For a man on the sand's like a ship on the sea :
But I knew, if the sun hadn’t beggared my sight,
That the horse he was riding was Let-Mo-Alight.
You couldn’t mistake him: the blaze on his face,
The swing of his head and his tippety pace,
As he ambled gwav with his confident ease,
Flicking the sand to his resolute knees ;
And my thoughts went back to a Warrego run
When I wrestled a bout with that son of a gun.
The last time I saw him I lay on the ground
While the rails of the stockyard ran dizzily round,
And over my head came the click of his heels
(A man must have been there to know how it feels).
And swift through the dust like a wraith in the night
With his head on his girth lathered Let-Me-Alight.
Well, war has its wonders. And padres no doubt
Have a Providence shielding them round and about;
And month after month, going hock-deep in sand,
May have tempered the bite of that Warrego brand.
But an open umbrella seems something unique
On the champion bucker of Irrara Creek.
SCOTLAND.
W. H. OGILVIE.
ABORIGIN ALITIES
“Bad Australian”: A few days ago I was'
riding along an Argentine pampa road when I met an
invasion of locusts. Myriads of them whirled on
every side and crawled over me and the nag, and
when I broke through into open daylight again I
was 17 miles from where I entered the cloud! I
asked a shanty-keeper if he had any news as to the
extent of the invasion. He said that according to
latest wires the laugosta was advancing on a front
of 24 leagues (72 miles). As to the rear—well,
there was no aviso, but he thought it was somewhere
in Bolivia. These people have no idea where the
periodical laugosta plague originates, but they
always put the blame on Bolivia as a matter of prin-
ciple. At the present moment thousands of square
miles of the Argentine Republic are being converted
into an acrid-smelling waste by the devastator locust.
Only the paraiso- tree and the mortgage are immune.
Also, the country is enjoying the most severe drought
experienced for many years. Wheat and maize crops
have failed utterly, animals are dying in thousands,
and, to crown all, the laugosta is ; >oie t* 1( V
diffused and energetic than usuaj.. Aigemn.a )s
up against it —hard —and, incidentally, it
holds out- the Allies are going to me] Hie ete< o
our toubie. a.-, they have been drawing immense
quantities of foodstuffs and large numbers of horses
from here since Satan cut loose.
“Snell”: Matty ('lurk was coming down
from Mildura, working his passage, and after a
long, hot day struck the licensed establishment of
one Corket, a humpy leaning wearily on props, its
broken windows curtained with chaff-bags. Matty
entered tiie bar, had a .drink of something un-
recognisable, but selling as beer, and then asked the
girl behind the counter if dinner was within the
bounds of possibility. Jinny Anne went to a door, and
cried into the back parts of the caravansary: “Dad,
■ ’ere’s a bloke wantin’ a feed —what’ll I give him?”
The voice of a man apparently smothering in bed
replied: “Give ’ini that cold fish lef’ from bre’k-
fist.” “Ar, can’t,” said Jinny Anne; “the eat ate
it.” “Well, let him have them fried chops.” “Can’t,”
said Jinny Anne; “cat’s ate ’em.” “There was a
tin o’ salmon opened yes’dee, w'asn’t there? Give
him what’s left.” “There ain’t any left,” said
Jinny Anne; “the . cat ate it.” The voice in the
darkness broke into a sudden roar. “Then let him
eat the cat!” it said.
“(?. Arden Hill”: With tlie exception of
the human, there is no more sagacious animal on
earth than the pit horse. There was one in Mount
Keira pit some years ago that could tally up the load
behind him by the number of jolts between the skips
when he started off along the flat. If there was a
jolt more than the usual number Nigger would stop
abruptly, and the volcanic language of all the
wheelers would not shift him until the extra skip
was unhooked. Usually when a skip gets away on a
down grade the horse bolts like fury until the crash
comes ; but some horses, as soon as they detect that
the wheeler has missed with the sprag, and that the
skip is; making speed, will back in promptly and
slew it off the road with their rumps. More remark-
able skill is the sagacity displayed by these horses
when they are turned out for a roll in the big pad-
doyk after coming out of the pit in the evening. Most
of the South Coast pits blow one long whistle for
work on the following day and three short whistles
for no work, and it is interesting to observe the nags
prick their ears and gaze intently at the white steam
jet at the tunnel mouth as soon as the whistle
■sounds. If it blows for work they commiserate with
each other in forlorn looks, and plod back in a re-
signed sort of way to the stables. If, however, it
blows for no work they career madly around the
paddock with tails and manes erect, snorting through
distended nostrils, and kicking their two heels high
in the air to denote their appreciation of a spell.
“Peg-Leg” : A farmer friend of mine down
in Riverina used to growl because a nest of a dozen
big rats inhabited his wheat-shed. Now he looks on
them as honored guests, for he is the only man in his
vicinity not eaten out by millions of mice. The rats
resented the intrusion of the minor rodents early in
the piece, and expelled them with great slaughter.
AN UNFORGIVABLE OFFENCE.
PEACEMAKER (t o Bill, who has just smitten his dearest friend) : "'Ere, wot yer hit 'im
BILL ( ferociously) : "'E turned up the Left Bower."
“McLirr”: “Doc” (B. 14/6/'l7) may have
livi’d in the bush all his life, and yet not know much
about the value of ant-bed. It is used for all that
“Melos" said, and much more —for ovens, barn
VULGAR BRUTE.
“Excuse me, you've got a bit of fluff on your arm."
“What the deuce d'you mean, sir? The lady's my wife!"
floors, and for making tennis courts, and good ones
at that. When mixed with megass it makes splen-
did logging for steam-pipes, is cheap and effective
and gives better results and lasts longer than more
expensive preparations. When mixed with lime
it cannot be excelled as mortar for bricks for set-
ting steam boilers in sugar mills. Any ' manager
who has ever used it for this purpose is quite en-
thusiastic as to its merits. “Doc” ought to under-
stand that the ant-bed must first be reduced to
powder (an easy job) before being used.
“C. J.W.”: Measurers of timber giants
should not overlook the rare specimen standing on
Hill Bros.’ property on the Comboyne (N.S.W.).
It is a cedar estimated to contain between 5000 ft.
and 6000 ft. of good timber. Also A. H. Bailey, of
Telegraph Point (Hastings River), recently cut an
ironbark girder 75ft. in length, 20 x 20. This stick
with other splinters is under order for delivery in
France for forming heavy gun emplacements.
* * *
“Quidam”: That outwardly respectable
and inwardly disreputable fraud, the domestic cat,
is having the limelight thrown upon it in U.S.A., and
is coming out of the ordeal in a badly-shaken condi-
tion. Investigation shows that where there are most
cats and consequently fewest birds, the crops are
worst., Also, where 64 cases of diphtheria occurred in
the boys’ department in an orphanage, it was proved
that four cats had the complaint; there were no
affected cats in the gills’ department, and there was
no diphtheria among the children. The cats were
destroyed and the epidemic stopped. Also, as a ratter
puss was pioved a fraud, miles behind a decent trap;
only 197 out of 559 cats interviewed would look at
a rat at all. The worst I know of cats at this end
of the earth is told at Terewhiti station (M.L.).
There the yowls of countless toms and tabbies made
night so hideous that rabbits became nervous, and
their burrowing was causing the surface of the pro-
perty to shift bodily into the sea. Only the sys-
tematic efforts of Paddy the Rabbiter and a large
gang of men and dogs wiped out the pest and saved
the station.
* * * *
“Tiaki” : Is any abo. wise about telegonic
happenings Knew a white woman who was married
to a Maori half-caste. Two children followed this
tinted union. One evening the man miscalculated
the strength of the Wairoa River, and Maoriland lost
a citizen. His body was found some weeks after in
an advanced stage,” and identification was estab-
lshed by his widow, who recognised a curiouslv-
tattooed band round the left wrist of the remains
Some time later the widow again became a wife'
Her second spouse sported a white skin, and was of
the extreme auburn variety usually known as “bluev”
or ginger.” Eventually a boy came to bless their
home, and the skin of the left wrist of the pledge
was coffee-brown with a dark-blue circle running
“Hussar”: Camels! Curse the treacherous
brutes! A friend of mine, a young cavalry officer,
had something to do with them in Egypt before the
war. He made friends, or thought he did, with
one particularly. A lover of animals, he used to
rub its nose and talk to it, and lay his face along
the beast’s cheek. One day he reproved his charge,
quietly, with a stick, for some bad conduct. Next
day he was fondling it again, when it turned on him
and bit his face completely off. From his eyes to
his chin there was nothing but a ghastly hole. He
didn’t die, poor chap. He was “saved” by a clever
doctor, went home to his little property in Ireland,
shut himself up and started to drink himself to death.
It took six months. He wore a mask from his
eyes downward, and could only speak by mumbles
and signs.
“B andi”: Male and female carpet-snakes
are exceedingly affectionate towards one another.
IVhen one of a pair has been killed the other will
return repeatedly, looking and calling for it with a
low whistling hiss. Came upon a couple one day
locked together near the bank of a creek, so that
they resembled a huge rope. They were lying
straight on a clear patch in the midst of tall
STINGY.
"Real mean, I call it. Fancy giving you only
one final leave."
blady grass. The man with me bashed them with
a waddy until both lay limp and motionless. We
then spent a couple of hours pigeon-hunting. Re-
uinmg the same way, the murderer was astonished
to find both snakes swimming about in the creek.
He was only convinced that they were the same
by examnnng. the spot where he had battered them,
and following their tracks. Evidently they had
T- ! ea *h, subsequently entering the water to
salve their injuries.
(Continued on page 24J


Orient” Sac Suits
From
“Orient” Sac Suits are essentially
practical and fashioned to meet
the needs of those who require a
suit reliable in both workmanship
and material, while being mod-
erate in price. The styles we
produce are made in our own
workrooms, by Australians for
Australians, and we claim are not
only the best Australian made but
represent the best value obtain-
able.
“ORIENT” SAC SUIT (as illus-
tration), made by David Jones in
tine-quality English, Scotch or
Irish Tweeds, can be supplied in
light brown, dark brown, medium
and dark grey mixtures, splendid
value. All sizes.
Price
Better qualities, 50/-, 5.5/-, 60/-,
65/- to 126/-
Write for patterns and self-measure-
ment form —free to any address on
request.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
I
■y
:::
David Jones Ltd.,
OPP. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
Leather Tweed Trousers, Judhpores, etc.,
Reduced for “SQUARE-DEAL SALE.
Leather Tweed Work-
ing Trousers. —i' 1 dark
GREY effects. Holeproof and
practically indestructible.
Made with Denim Pockets;
Riveted Buttons, and non-split
scat seam.
Sizes 3 to 7. Usual
price, 13/6.
“SQUARE-DEALED,”
12/6
Cross sizes and Stockman’s
Cut for Riding. Usual
price, 15/6. “SQUARE-
DEALED” 14/6
Australian Tweed
Trouser s.-— ■'Splendidly
tailored in hard-wearing Dark
and Medium Grey Tweeds.
Made with Side Pockets ; Cuff
bottoms.
Sizes 3 to 7. Usual
price, 13/6.
“SQUARtf-DEALED,”
11/6
C2l. —Judhpore Rid-
ing Trousers. Ready-to-
wear. Can be supplied exact
to illustration. Fob and Cross
Pockets ; Belt Loops and Side
Straps. Sizes 3 to 7.
In KHAKI DRILL (2 quali-
ties). “SQUARE-DEALED,”
12/6 and 15/6
In Garbicord, of Dark
Stone Shade. Usual price,
15/6; “SQUARE-DEALED,”
13/6.
m
C2I
C2O
k r
7y I Till ORl'I) TO ORDER. In Khaki Drill, 21/-; Khaki
~ Breeches —TAILORED iu self strapped, 5/- extra;
Cord or Canton Mole, 27/6; Whipcord, 45/-; Bedford Co , 40/ ,
A>„cKbkin strapped, 13/6 extra. „ / . canton Moleskin,
21.— Judhpores—TAILORED TO
7/6; Moleskin, 27/6; Mole or Klrala Dull Cord 27/6, _ Buckskin strappe d, 13/6
and White or Cream Bedford Cord, 45/-, So f . PI >
extra. . , . _ Khaki Drill Cord,
Riding Trousers— TAlLOßED OR DER. K 1 Be dford Co/d, 35/-; Self strapped,
Cord, 18/6; Canton Mole, 21/-, l" ist L " eeus ’ o-s/”*
5/- extra; Buckskin strapped, 13/6 extra.
Ask for FREE SAMPLES - TAPE & CHART\
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE .
The LEVIATHAN
MELBOURNE.
LOOK WHO’S HERE!
m
SYDNEY JAMES.
m
m
ii
Writing
Palace
Hean’s |
JACK WALLER.
• wVin’q TTere.” now showing at The
at widelv different dates, the principal per toimers in HEENZO (registered name for
Theatre, W, have recorded th«r hwh Co“Ss, CROUP, CATARRH.
Essence), the famous money-saving remedy foi COEOrIS, tu. ,
•••••
m
MADELINE
KOSSITER.
October 7, 1916.
August 12, 1915.
Mr. G. W. H BAN, seizet i with hoarseness in
Hear Sir,— Recently I w».- an>s Essence) was
the throat. \our **EE taking a few doses it
recommended to me, a have no hesitation in
.... immediate ,r„uW«.
recommending HEE* / bottle in my dressing-
sliall always be sure to* havj^a ™ SV I)NEi JAMES.
June 29, 1917.
Mr . c. W. HEAN, Chemist & of
Dear Sir, —Please supply hffNZO COUGH DlA-
ss° *r 1-h
SU-StlirS c'S »nd T,o»b.« A
Ymirs faithfully, JACK HAULER
rs* ssrvr. ”ssrft.s£s
;b?,;r« "ht.V"-" »- ~
highly MADELINE BOSSITEIL
There is no section of the community oZ ZZlrTpZ^
and S P-St
ft T- '^« ia of n ASTHMA bronchitis!
S£&«S “cSor?* catlrbh':' infllSa. am> soke ,
•;?SkD C o!l"«S' THRO ATS.
HEENZO
Get a bottle of HEENZO (registered tame for
Hean’s Essence) from your chemist °r {?r°ce ,
it to warm water, and sweeten accoidi n '■
directions printed on the label, and you w
diately have a pint of as fine a remedy for throat
and bronchial troubles as money can buy . J P
of ordinary remedies would cost at lea.t 12s.
HEENZO costs only 2s, Mora .
HEENZO and save 10s.
. , ;tv ui'KX/O and mav be conveniently allowed to dissolve in the
,„ ~ .-s-s aK-ss?|SaSs.iasiSs 81
mouth while peaking or «ng » „ DIAM ONDS are not stocked m your
If HEENZO and HEEA/.U


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
MEGGITT’S
ONSEED OILMEN
fro
AEG
PARy
m
V. l
%
"fe
A
rf
■
v '
4*
V,
)p
s*
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
Pigs, calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. li. McD. Livingstone
Hosehill Farm, Kingaroy, at the 191 G show won seven
first prizes with a pen of calves, and won the three
butter-fat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-oil
meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
meggitt ltd..
y
j
linseed Oil andOllMealManufacturers, 26 King Nsw
“Nym”: Water-rats are marrying and mul-
tiplying ominously along the irrigation channel-ways
in Northern Victoria. They are really the scavengers
of the rivers, and devour practically anything. They
will travel miles by night to suck the life’s-blood of
a clutch of ducklings. The murderers work in
winter, and delight to go a-prowling in couples on the
frostiest nights, after the manner of native cats,
now becoming extinct. A lot of the damage blamed
to Brer Fox is really done by these other little
abominations.
“Bill R.” : Shooting with mates along the
south coastal lakes at Sherringham beach (N.S.W.)
one summer we disturbed a tiger snake in a
tussock. I saw the angry whirl of its long body
swinging round the tuft and instantly fired. The shot
cut the coils cleanly into three parts. The head, with
about 18in. of body at once attacked and pursued
for some yards a collie that had butted in to inves-
tigate, and, though none of us saw actual contact
betwixt them, the clog shortly after hung behind,
slavering’ at the mouth, and died insidp half an hour.
No flowers by request.
“Whack” : Here, make yourself a cigar-box
out of the remains of an ironbark that we chipped
down on the Dorrigo (N.S.W.). After topping and trim-
ming, the splitters got 318 sleepers out of the shrub.
Ironbarks of that size, however, are scarce; but
there are still a few bulky gums standing in the dis-
trict. The mammoth takes size 66ft. in corsets.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: The rarest and most valuable
native fur-carrier is, in my opinion, the golden
water-rat, attired in rich black and tan and scarce
everywhere, and 1 know of only one record of the
sale of a rug fashioned of the skins. Piles of
empty shells of the fresh-water mussel lying on the
banks of secluded waterholes are evidences of the
presence of the beauty, and I have shot him occa-
sionally about the Monaro (N.S.W.) rivers and
creeks. The animal is usually seen swimming with
his head just above the surface, but at the least hint
of danger he dives and hides in a burrow in the bank.
“L.”: lit 1879, when I was in Windsor
(N.S.W.) visiting the house of John McQuade a
curious tiling befell. A young heifer with first calf
was bought and put into a paddock adjoining the
pig run, the calf being penned up at night. For
several days the heifer would not yield any milk on
being bailed up, and McQuade blamed a neighbor
for surreptitiously milking her. A watch was set,
and it was discovered that the thief was one of the
pigs, which was sucking the cow through the three-
railed fence.
“Te Wkare” : Call-notes often account for
the vernacular names of birds. Thus the leaden fly-
catcher makes a noise like the vocal remonstrances of
a frog in the grip of a snake, wherefore it is the
“frog-bird.” This rare and nomadic scrub-dweller is
leaden-grey in general coloring’, with reddish-brown
throat. A close relative, the scissors- or razor-grinder
(restless flycatcher), reproduces the sound produced
in sharpening scissors on a grindstone. The coach-
whip-bird efirns its name in the same manner.
A PERFECT HATCH.
JONES (flaunting the millinery ): “'Ere,
watcher think of the 'at I bought me
missus?”
SMITH: “Bit talkative, ain't it?”
JONES: “Well, yer see, there’s nothin' like
’ARMONY in things o’ this sort!”
“Gham”: Main Shaft” asks (B. 21/G/’l7)
if the wil-warbler is the only bird to build in dark
places. The spotted diamond-bird (pardalotte
family), between 3in. and 4in. in length, builds in a
tunnel up to sft. long, and the entrance is just large
enough to allow the occupier to enter. Consequently
practically all light is shut out. The tunnel is
horizontal, but is always sufficiently inclined to turn
off rain. At the extreme end is the bedchamber,
slightly higner than the entrance, containing the
beautiful dome-shaped nest, built of grass or very
fine bark and lined with similar materials, but finer.
The spotted diamond is occasionally a Sydney subur-
banite, but almost any old place in N. S. Wales is
good enough for him.
THE PRODIGY.
FATHER OF ONE (enthusiastically) : “And so strong! You wouldn't believe! He's always
tearing up his books.”
FATHER OF SEVEN (bored): “Nothing to my youngest. I let him out the front gate this
morning, and he tore up the street.”
“Eddyson”: When I first knew Plunket
he had taken up 300 acres of good onion coufttry in
touch with the thriving Tasmanian mining’ township
then euphemistically called The Dip. On our first
meeting he was cutting out the foundations for a six-
roomed house. “Coin’ t’ get married,” he said.
“Sis sez she’s willin’.” Sis was Miss Harkwaw.
daughter of a depressed land-owner living in deadly
isolation over towards the sea. “Plenty o’ time,
though,” continued Plunket cheerfully. “I got to
build the house first. A brick house it’s goin’ to
be. Ain’t nobody else got a brick house round here,
’n’ they think I’m off me dot. But I know what I’m
about. Coin’ to quarry me own bluestone for the
foundations: then I’m goin’ to make me own bricks
’n’ build me own house.” Three years later Plunket
had his fine, solid, bluestone foundations in and his
walls up about 2ft. 9in. He was industriously operat-
ing his brick plant down by the creek qn Sundays
and evenings. Remembering what the children of
Israel had done with a lot of bricks in a long time,
he was not discouraged by his poor progress, and I
was given to understand that Sis was still “willin’.”
The other day I met Plunket in Melbourne. He was
slicing up box blocks in a suburban woodyard.
After mutual exchanges, “But what of the brick
house at The Dip?” I asked. Plunket heaved a sigh.
It took me eight years to get the walls up,” he said,
“ ’n’ then Sis went ’n’ spoiled everythin’.” “How
spoiled everything?” I asked. Plunket sighed again.
“Went ’n’ died!” he said, with a touch of disgust.
“John Quill” : The fox has joined the allies
against tire devastating mouse. Recently A. Jones,
of Coolali (N.S.W.), killed one Reynard that con-
tained 30 more or less masticated wheat-spoilers.
“11.E.R”: “T.McL.” (B. 3/5/T7) asks
isn’t it time we took the winkers off and let the
horse see what is behind. In most cases it would
be a success, but some horses are like human beings,
they suffer from nerves, and nothing in the wide
world would convince them that the sight of a
vehicle attached to them was a good thing. A horse sur-
veyor once told me that a nag’s eye magnifies things
a hundred times, so that, when the winkers fall off,
the beast imagines that it is hitched to half the
empire, and at once gets enthuiastie about a divorce.
Likewise, a piece of paper appears to be a whole
paper-mill. But my moke says yes-no to this. When I
offer him a handful of feed he never mistakes it for a
bucketful.
“Van P.”: An Abo. dictionary is badly
needed to standardise the spelling of a host of bush
words. In a recent book by Arthur L. Brewer I
came across “coolabah,” “gidgee,” “peewee” and
“pannican,” for instance. I’d always written them
“coolibah,” “gid.vah,” “peewit” and “pannikin.”
“Gilgai” is another word there’s a dispute about.
Tom Collins, an old Abo. writer, spelt it “gilgie” ;
some other people, “gilgi.” Then “jack-shay.” I’ve
seen it spelt as if it derived from “Jack Shea.”
What bush etymologist will butt in with a heavy-
weight dictum?
“Norseman”; Some men have curious fads.
I once knew a schoolmaster who had a mania for
getting appointed a trustee of bush cemeteries. As
soon as he got to a new town he would look up the
register and find out if any trustees had got them-
selves buried or changed their addresses. There was
always a vacancy somewhere, and presently the
townspeople would be stirred by the reading of an
official letter from Sydney stating that Horatio Home-
lessons, 8.A., had been appointed a trustee for the
“Jews, Chinese and Infidels” section. In a burst of
confidence one night the habitual trustee showed me
a book containing 10 different gazettal notices for the
graveyard honor at various tinpot townships. Some
people must have excitement or perish.
“Werrimee”: Considering the awful water
he has frequently to drink in dry times, it is mar-
vellous how the traveller Outback remains free from
sickness. He swallows all sorts of stagnant liquid
of various colors, from lime-white to jet-black. In
hot weather, when pools are few and far between, he
comes to each with a ravenous thirst, and often
drops on all fours and drinks as his horse drinks.
Every water has its own taste. One may be so
impregnated with eucalyptus that it seems more
like a dose of medicine than a plain drink, while
another is simply gidgee tea. Then there are the
mineral waters, each one asserting its
own little peculiarity on a person who
is not used to it. Small waterholes,
during a dry spell, become so thick
with insects that it is impossible to
dip a pannikin of water without get-
ting several millions of them. Travel-
lers, drovers, stockmen and others who
have to drink it, and have no time to
boil it first, use a handful of soft
grass as a strainer. It is common
to see a man drop the grass on the
surface of the water, pat it level and
drink through it. An odd traveller carries a piece
of muslin or hessian for the same purpose. Muddy
water is cleared with copi, which is gathered up
on the hills, and is much used in iron tanks and
casks at homesteads.
* * * *
‘‘Hay” : I’ve seen white men pull fat
grubs out of tree-trunks and eat them raw as a
dainty. Binghi’s special favorite was a small white grub
found in the roots of the “boonti,” a kind of
broom-bush—and he will uproot heaps of the scrub
in search of a bellyful. Another titbit is a fairly
large-sized grub, the bunnera parooka, which is
obtained from a stunted eucalypt. The minga
parooka is gathered from a kind of prickly acacia.
Binghi throws the grubs on the coals, cooks them
very slightly, rakes them off with a stick, and the
rest is easy. Sometimes he makes a salad of wild
onions as an extra-special finish. He likes his
grub in the larva state, and will not touch a
parrapi parooka, or walk-about grub, unless very hard
pushed for food.
“E.” : I plump for tlie little tit-warbler, or
little tomtit (Acanthiza nana) and the barley-bird
or golden-headed fantail-warbler (Cisticola exilis ) as
the two smallest Australian birds. None of these
(owls are much more than 3in. in length. The tomtit
is, of course, common, but the rare barley-bird I
have met only once, on Monaro, where it bred in
tall Californian thistles. The elegantly fashioned
nest contained three sky-blue eggs, blotched with
dark brown. In coloring this diminutive hopper is
golden-brown, streaked and shaded in parts with
black.
HOT STUFF.
ROSE OF THE BOARD : “ The whistle's goner
ROUSER: “ Gripes , I knew they was pretty
hot about here, but I didn't think they'd
shake that!”
JERRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the land where Jerry’s going
There is neither cold nor heat,
And there’ll be no chill winds blowing,
Burning sun nor blinding sleet;
When he wakes up from the dead, he
Knows he’ll find a gunyah ready
In a land of running water
Where there’s plenty things to eat.
All the tales the old men taught him
Shape themselves before his eyes ;
Transcendental hopes support him
As among his dogs he lies;
There’s a lonely lubra sitting
By the gunyah, so ’tis fitting
That he should not keep her waiting
In that dinkum paradise.
There the risen dead can wallow
In celestial luxury ;
’Possums hide in every hollow,
Sugar-bags in every tree.
There are days of hunting splendid,
Nights of feasting never ended
Save when all the dead foregather
For a wild corroboree.
There fat grubs will wait for roasting
Under every sheet of bark,
And there’ll be no call for boasting
When the nullah hits its mark;
For, to aid the ghostly thrower,
Game will stop and ducks fly lower.
Even through the night he’ll hunt them,
For there won't be any dark.
Not a binghi, gaunt and battered,
Will he walk that hallowed shore,
Trailing round in garments tattered,
Cadging tucker at the store,
While among the mongrels skinny
Sprawls his latest piccaninny,
And his withered gin squats smoking
In the sun beside the door.
Not with boomerang and nullah
Will he to the station come,
Alien both in smell and color,
Wheedling for a tot of rum.
Heavenly stores will not be stingy,
There’ll be neither boss nor binghi,
Overseers will cease from troubling,
And the snarling dog be dumb.
In a shallow hole they’ll place him,
Knees to chin, and Lody bare,
And the rising sun will fat>s him
With its broad, unwinking stare;
But no doubt or introspection
Dims this hope of resurrection:
“Sun he come up, Jerry waken—
Jump up white man over there.
QUEENSLAND.
RANN DALY.


‘Break Away
from the old
faihioned iron
tyre and fit..-
DUNLOP SOLUT
RUBBER TYRES
to your Trap.
They eliminate Vibration,
ensure Comfortable Driving
and double the life of your
Vehicle. Last for years.
Frqm £3 lOh a pair and
Dunlop rubber co
Always
Specify
miNLOP
BRAND
nhcn ordering
Rubber Goods
It means Service and
Economy in Belts,
Packings, Insertions,
k Hoses, etc.
Jingineering r!ant».
alt | n d.n| M.n«.
Government^
W DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
DANGER
lurks at every Greasy Corner!
It’s bad enough on a highly cambered country track, with
the possible chance of ditching your car if the tyres
don’t grip —but it’s ten times worse in city traffic, where,
your car might “run amok” amongst pedestrians or other
vehicles. The most careful driver is absolutely powerless
at times to arrest a side-skid— if the tyres fail to
grip when the car is checked. Sometimes necessity calls
for use of brakes —the wheels lock, but the car skids
forward and anything may happen. Again, the
brakes are applied—and in a flash the car is side-ways
on and anything may happen. Many a
Motorist’s heart is in his mouth— when he’s
crossing a greasy patch. To the Motorist who is anxious
to minimise these troubles, we strongly recommend
DUNLOP RUBBER
NON-SKID TYRES
These scientifically constructed covers give a
really wonderful grip on greasy surfaces—either
laterally or driving. They hold when other
patterned covers are skidding, and further
they are the finest wearing tyres for
continuous hard driving on any road.
FOR SERVICE AND SAFETY THEY
STAND ALONE!
MADE IN 15 "POPULAR SIZES.
ORT AIN ABLE AT ALL THE LEADING GARAGES.
Trouble
you can
avoid
m
X
/
%
w
X
. v\;
There’s
Trouble
Ahead
if you buy Cycl®
Tyres of the cheap
and natty” order.
-FIT-
DUNLOP
tyres
They ere always re-
liable and easily give
the Best Service.
sit
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N.Z.
You will Find”
...THE...
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEEL
easily the Best Wearing
and Most Comfortable.
It stands alone for
Quality and Service.
DUNLOP KVBMEM CO*


Still Another Merited
Triumph for
Kidney & Bladder
Pills
When the agonising misery of
Backache is banished, isn’t that a
years of
triumph ?
Just simply bowed down with that awful backache, sometimes
a dull, dead ache, at other times a terrible sharp stab, just like
the thrust of a knife. Only those who sutler with agonising back-
ache can understand the meaning of these words.
I am just an ordinary gas-stoker by trade, and have been a
great sufferer from kidney trouble, which showed itself by severe
pains in the back. These never seemed to leave me day nor night
for something over three years. The misery of it was awful. I
tried all kinds of remedies without getting any or little relief;
took all kinds of medicines, and diu everything that a man could
do who was anxious to get rid of pain.
One day, when I had almost given up hope of ever being
cured, I got a box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and I
took them as directed. Within a very few hours it appeared that
I was getting relief, but it seemed too good to be true, I could
hardly believe it. However, I persevered with them, and after
taking four boxes the pain that had been upon me so long entirely
disappeared. W hile I was thankful to get temporary relief even
for a short time, at this time—August 27, 1912 —I was doubtful
as to whether I was really cured, but I felt sure that time only
could prove whether my cure was permanent or not.”
„ ' s T^ ie stor y how Mr. William Wright, of 11 Watlington
Streeff, Reading, suffered, and how he was cured,
nr w^ r - e i3 s c hmax: On July 29, 1914, nearly two years after
Mr. H right first thought he was cured, he said: “I am pleased
to tell you that the cure that was effected nearly two years ago
has proved to be absolutely permanent, and I have had no return
ot my old trouble. I am keeping quite well and shall alwavs
recommend De Witts Kidney and Bladder Pills, as I am sure
that they are a splendid remedy in all kinds of kidney troubles.
1 shall be very pleased to reply to anyone inquiring of me regarding
tv \xr?Z* Tvn tS l 1 ne . ver lose an opportunity of recommending
De Hitts Pills to people who I know would benefit by them.”
Most people look upon backache as something not worth
troubling about until the pain gets really severe. Backache is
always one thing—it is a sign-post of danger. Backache means
one thing and one thing only—kidney trouble. It mav be in its
early stages, or it may be advanced, but backache invariably means
that the kidneys are affected.
It is remarkable how this kidney trouble seems to be increasing
year by year. Ihousands and thousands of people in the towns
and villages of this country are in terrible danger of deadly kidney
disease, if they only knew and realised it. * y
This insidious disease creeps on, gradually getting a firmer
and firmer grip until when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
lie has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney trouble? Do you
know how to recognise whether you are suffering from this or not?
Mr. W. WRIGHT (from photo).
Years of Awful
Backache—
Hopeless—but De
Witt’s cured me.
. H ? re ar ? some of the symptoms of kidney disease: Ac-hes and
various parts of the body, nasty taste in the mouth first
Snefa fSrn^ 01 ?f mS ’ constipation. cloudy and bad-colored urine,
eves JT nl weakness aad .irritability, puffiness under the
eyes—these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
. . d then people who suffer from backache, rheumatism, gout
arp l sifffW 6 ’ tl’ one or . Pains in the bladder, muscles and joints’
fhLp 1 ! »u g tbese , pains through weak or diseased kidneys, for
these a 1 c the sure and certain symptoms of kidney trouble. '
Thev ' m ' an tbat t J I ? kidneys are weak and diseased.
J ' ne^ rT ? eec * strengthening and making healthy.
. e moment any symptoms of kidney trouble are detected a
very simple and sure remedy should be tried without delay
i SSuTtMih Ta S3?
Austialia and China in their millions swear bv it ’ ’
s&S£
mend it dailv and the sale -« nC I P encas millions use and recom-
and Bladder Pills? 86 “ ° f pe ° ple using De Witt ’s Kidney
eXPerieQCe that these wonderful
corner of’ iTe^usdn^henTwitt. UdeS n° f people 5n every
you not think it would be wislfor gl ' eat s . ucpess > do
Don’t waste a single W r V° glve them a trial?
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills wH aEd f et a box of De
kidney and bladder troubles They Jin ? are made ex Pi’essly for
symptoms no matter how Ton A - n wll L care every °ne of the above
. To cure kidney doubleofaiTkK? y y ° u have suffel>ed -
rid of the cause—the noisonnno iv k A ind , yo H must positively get
a real remedy must pass thromrwvp Tv? - Remember, to do this,
not through the bowels aVSSif kidneys and the bladder and
urine change to a muddy Sish PlUs T° - When you see the
guishes De Witt’s Pills from 1 Tf£ r ~ a feature which distin-
doubt that they have put their healirT f erS T~ y ° U know beyond all
kidneys and the bladder And L toUch 011 the right spot—the
because weak kidnevS very Jtt ° St 18 s ° s . mall - Do not put off,
end, and then it will' be too late R ™ ea . ns ? n ? bt s Disease in the
. But when you buy the n?ll« n?® WlSe m time *
white boxes printed in blueTnd TITT y + °, u get . De Witt’s, in large
top of the bottle. Refuse anv Wlth a blu . e wax sea l on the
seal Mr. Wright got De' name wit hout this special
size—most BOX^REE^nTplainly 3 a ? d 5/6 t per box -
with the blue seal on the cork —send your money to E. C. De Witt I nJ t^ a o m^i°oZ.^ ? tc
y—rTone7to P1 E m 6. B?Witt W& Pil^
PERAMBULATORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our suburb once was far from gay.
In rustic haunts located,
Xo traffic broke the peace of day.
The place was celebrated
For holy calm. ’Twas dull and slow—
No vale could be sedater.
And then a tram five years ago
Established an incessant flow
Of couples newly wed, and lo!
The prime perambulator!
The district now is brisk and bright,
And far its streets are carried.
Brick houses jump up in the night—
In each two, lately married.
And every night to one or two,
From some inspired creator,
There comes a grey, or black, or blue,
French polished, and upholstered through
Four-wheeled and nickelled dazzling new
Superb perambulator !
And now right past my window drives
Bright-eyed and proudly breasted,
The pageant gay of little wives,
Their chubby babies nested
In spotless robe and figured quilt.
Some sing the aviators—
My hearty melody is spilt
To mother-girls who smartly tilt
Along the path with clinking lilt
Of brisk perambulators.
Dear girls who bargained for a car
When undertaking marriage,
Now very well contented are,
Each driving her own carriage.
They cluster here in bird-like mirth,
The square-set, girlish maters.
At least our suburb knows no dearth
Of sunny dames of sterling worth,
Whose transports, plenishing the earth,
Are full perambulators !
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
Business, Bobbery, etc
Two war-time advts. from Melbourne
Argus :
Wanted, thoroughly experienced Manager, for
ladies’ underclothing department.
AA r e require a capable Salesman for our corset
department.
There’s national organisation for you—
every man doing a man’s job !
“Cam”: My versatile barber is George
Sutton, who —until all the real whiskers
went to the war—kept a shop at Mirboo
North (Vic.). In addition to being a Past
Grand Razorist, he was the local undertaker,
ran a tip-top photography business, did pic-
ture framing, signwriting and glazing, and
was secretary of the local branch of the Odd-
fellows. He had no assistants, and it was a
hit awkward, sometimes, to blow in for a
shave and be told by one of his nippers that
Dad was locked in the darkroom developing,
or out “getting sizes” of someone who had
just pegged out.
“Exile”: Owing to the scarcity of leather
the U.S.A. Bureau of Fisheries has been ex-
perimenting with shark skin, and has found
it makes a cheap and durable leather for
boots and shoes. The bigger the shark the
more \ T aluable the hide for tanning. Several
cos. have been organised in Los Angeles and
San Francisco to fish for sea-lawyers as a
regular business. Not only is the skin useful
but shark oil is the slowest-drying lubricant
ever discovered. Its greatest practical value
is for painting roofs—a roof coated with
shark oil will shed water much better than a
painted roof. There are 1500 fishermen in
Monterey Bay, and they never pass by a
shark as in former days. Who is game to
float a shark-fishing company in Sydney or
Melbourne, to catch the sea variety and not
him of the Stock Exchanges, the racecourses
or the real-estate offices?
“Kinso” : The poor old whale has a reason
to curse the Kaiser. The by-products of
mineral oil had been giving the lumbering
leviathan a well-deserved rest. But now
when man has discovered how to run war
largely on petrol, prices of petroleum pro-
ducts have risen so enormously that sperm
oil and spermaceti are again profitable, and
the almost-defunct whaling industry of New
Bedford (U.S.A.) is booming again. (P.S. —
The time may yet come when fat citizens will
be obliged to reside in dugouts.)
Two business-like ads. from Adelaide
dailies:—
To Let, Bed-sitting Rooms, use dining-room,
kitchen, self, gas stove. Miss X .
Few Superior Black Orpington Cockerels, Pearson’s
strain; also Muscovy Drakes. Home on holiday.
Enquire Ham Shop, .
“Joan”: The subtle drapers have a new
dodge. They bait their windows with a few
enticing goods marked at startling bargain
prices in large figures. This is done just
as the store is closing at midday on Satur-
day or at six in the evening. Brilliant elec-
tric lights above the bait do the rest. By
the time the doors are next opened for busi-
ness_ the bargains have been well advertised
by ’phone, and there are buyers waiting
to fight for them.
“Patagonian”: Everybody talks of “mak-
ing paper” ; no one talks of making a sub-
stitute. Consequently the field for experi-
ment and application is limited. Why not
widen it? Why not put some whiting or
other coloring in prickly-pear gelatine and
look for an addition in chemistry that would
render it flexible, etc. ? When you look for
substitutes the field, from linseed oil to
nickel, is unlimited.
“Private Room”: The grocer sent me a
dozen of matches the other day. On close
examination I found that a second label had
been stuck over the original one. Both labels
bore the mark “Made in Japan.” I have
since heard that these matches bearing the
original brand were condemned and then a
second label w*as stuck on, after which they
were passed. It sounds like a bad dream,
but these are mad times, and the matches
are dangerous enough to hang the story on—
they explode reluctantly, like cheap fireworks.
* * * *
“R.X.S.” and the struggle for a crust: —
“Humming” along the Great AVestern Road I collided
into a big wine-making establishment looking -for work.
The boss was friendly, but said the only work he could
give me was bottle-washing. “That,” he told me, “will
be constant.” I took it on. It was constant all
right—nine hours a day, 30 shillings a week and
find myself. The apparatus consisted of a bit of
hoop-iron, some sand and a pointed stick. I added a
bit of hessian. “Others used their ’an’s,” muttered
the foreman with a doubtful look. He himself was
“brushing,” working with his whole body. “You
ain’t ’arf doin' the ‘punts,’ ” he told me. The
punts are those depressions under the bottle that
diddle the customer out of part of his liquor. ‘ Put
yer thumb hard into ’em.” 1 said it hurt and
wrapped a hessian stall around the limb. He looked
and snorted. The boss came along, pointed out an
imaginary fjpeck, suggested more “elbow grease,’' and
asked me if I thought I could get a few done this
season.
“Crate-o!” Huge hardwood orates containing 10
dozen bottles each, to be shifted with the foreman.
He told me if I dropped my end going up the slope
I’d certainly break my legs. 1 managed to avoid the
accident. The next dissipation was the four o’clock
“tubbing.” “Tubbing” consists of climbing about
in a dark vault over rough stacks of bagged bottles
and yanking bags of seven dozen to the tubs. Some
humane genius had supplied the bags with “ears,
and I blessed him for it between curses. Broken
glass and cuts were only incidentals of this job. The
bottles bobbed about all over the tub. “Why don’t
yer drown ’em?” cried the foreman. “Look ’ere!”
He grabbed about two dozen necks, held them under
a quarter of a minute, and they all sank. I tried
three in each hand and held them under about three
minutes. They all bobbed up serenely.
Next morning “binning.” This operation, so the
foreman explained, “took years and years to learn.”
Everything was in “the foundation,” which he then
proceeded to lay—and bundled me out so that I
shouldn’t learn about it. In binning you pass the
bottles up to the binner by the necks or the
“punts” as the case may be. But whichever way
you do it the icy-cold water always runs down your
arm and side. “Punts there!” “Necks, necks I
told yer! ” So you pass them up unendingly by
candlelight to the splodgy hand. Always I shall see
that hand between me and the candle.
“Now ter-morrer,” said the foreman, “ter-morrer,
after we’ve done 90 dozen, we’ll have a good clear
tip. You get them cases o’ quarts an’ ” But
there was no to-morrer.
“Hustler”: Money in the steaka-de-oyst
business, I think. Other day a small subur-
ban saloonist married off his young daughter
to the son of another Dago, who runs a fish-
and-chips den in the same street. As is the
custom, the wedding took place on a Sunday,
and the bridal couple headed a procession of
42 taxis, all paid for by the bride’s father.
At least one master-mariner thinks Sydney
Harbor Trust has laid and baited a trap for
some poor sailor by putting a single fixed
green light on Kirribilli Point. He foresees
that some night a captain taking his craft
downstream will mistake the low beacon for
the starboard side-light of a ketch, or some-
thing standing out, hurriedly starboard his
helm to comply with the marine rule of the
road —and find the nose of liis ship on the
rocks. He asks for an occulting white light,
or two vertical greens if the Trust is so fond
of the color.
“Quidam”: Many places that w r ere shel-
tered and comfortable in the time of the
early settlers, by reason of the protection
afforded by native forests, are now bleak and
barren. More especially is this the case in
the highlands, where the unrestricted zephyrs
of winter resemble a blast from the Antarc-
tic regions. Had a far-seeing Government
decreed that substantial belts of forest should
he left at intervals, and seen that the decree
was observed, the breakwinds would have
sheltered the cleared spaces and kept the coun-
try good for man and beast. Instead, the
cocky’s innate tendency to regard every tree as
a natural enemy has led to ruthless ringbark-
ing of miles of country, with no scientific
effort to counteract the effects. In conse-
quence. the hot winds of summer and the
blasts of winter have worked such changes
that old hands sadly croak about the seasons
now being rigorous and uncertain, instead of
the comparatively equable affairs they used
to be. Strange to say, few of these old
hands appreciate the fact that the indiscrimi-
nate chopping down of wind-breaks must in-
evitably work harm in a continent where
there is so much opportunity for the wind to
get on the jamboree as Australia. Anyone
who has seen the shelter belts of pines and
blue-gums, planted and cared lor at great
expense around Ballarat and similarly situ-
ated places, and experienced the beneficial
effects of such walls of trees, can easily
imagine the advantages Australia in general
would have gained from a systematic con-
servation of shelter belts. But whether the
old pioneer who didn’t have much time to
develop his intelligence realises it doesn’t
really matter at all. The trouble is that
very few people nowadays appear to realise
it either, and those who do obviously have
little influence upon the great minds that
control our destinies. Their condition is all
right; so the difficulty of keeping condition
on stock that are broiled in summer and
half frozen in winter doesn’t matter.
* * * *
“L.0.W.” : The tendency of some people to
“reform” matters which they know nothing
about is exemplified by some Labor remarks
at Bendigo anent rabbit-poisoning. Aboli-
tion of poisoning was advocated on the
grounds that it was carried out by land
monopolists in order to keep trappers out of
a job. There are many places where, owing
to distance from railways and factories, it is
impossible to procure trappers, and the
poisoning of bunny in hundreds of thousands
only tends to hold the pest in check. Neither
trapping nor poisoning exterminates rabbits ;
nothing short of closer settlement will do
that. Where possible, trapping, which turns
the carcase as well as the skin to account, is
best; but where this is impracticable, anyone
who suggests the abolition of poisoning
(which, incidentally, allows a number of
men, mostly Labor supporters, to make a good
living from skins) should go and db a little
landowning in an infested district. I know
a case in point. The manager of a freezing
works approached the manager of a station
in the district and asked him to abstain
from poisoning, in order to allow trappers a
chance. lie agreed. Later on, however,
when the works were in full swing and rab-
bits had over-run his property, the freezing
works notified that they could not get enough
trappers for country near the works, and it
was simply impossible to get any to go far-
ther out. While the manager was conse-
quently chasing round for poisoners the in-
spector swooped down, the result being a fine
for failing to destroy rabbits. Such incidents
are apparently unknown to the Trades Hall,
but a solid grip of them would go a good way
to make the man on the land believe that the
Labor politician knew something pertaining
to spheres outside his narrow union.
“Good Australian” (from ’Frisco) :
This sounds like something good for Mildura and
Ronmark. At Fresno, Cal. (U.S.A.), raisin-growers
have just got on to a machine for drying raisins in 30
hours, instead of in 12 days, by sun rays. The
machine has a capacity of 60 tons a day. Not only
is much time saved, hut the danger of crop loss
from rain is obviated.


PRAISED BY THE FAIR and THE BRA
%
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
MORE POPULAR THAN EVER
m a
I
%
Miss •
MAUDE FAME'
(from a photo
bp Monte Luke).
Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery is the finest Cough
Remedy you can buy. It is just as necessary in the home
as in the trenches. New Discovery will banish all colds
from father’s bronchitis down to baby’s croupv cough, so
take two bottles home to-night, one for home use, the other
for your soldier boy. Don’t forget New Discovery. Price,
Is. 6d. and 3s.
Two Sydney Favorites Praise
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
“I feel it my duty to write
and tell you how good I have
found your Dr. Sheldon’s
‘New Discovery.’ To say the
least, I am enthusiastic
about it, for it has cured me
in the most marvellous
fashion of one of the most
troublesome colds I ever
had. Its lightning effects
on a cold are little short of
marvellous, for I felt better
after the first dose, and in
less than three days’ time
[MIBHfaabiKWL rag m was absolutely right again.
Since thejj T have used it every time I have felt the slightest indication of a
liuskiness in my throat or cold coming on, and I can truthfully say that it has
been effective immediately. I think ‘New Discovery’ by far the best thing I
have eA r er come across for a cold, and I most heartily recommend it.
“Yours sincerely, “(Sgd.) MAUDE PANE.”
r “I am writing to tell you
| what a strong advocate I am
of Dr. Sheldon’s ‘New Discov-
ery.’ It is the only thing
that does me any good when
I have a bad cold or cough,
or when my throat feels sore
or strained. During the past
two years I have used it
on numerous occasions, and
always with the best results.
It is an excellent remedy,
and I never feel safe to start
on a trip without having a
bottle of it in my bag.
“With very best wishes
for ‘New Discovery,’
“I am, sincerely yours,
“(Sgd.) LIZETTE PARKES.”
wr
' f
1
Miss
LIZETTE
PARKEB
(from a
photo).
FIRST at THE FRONT&FIRST at HOME
Our brave boys have enough suffering and danger to endure in the trenches without letting them run unnecessary risk of colds, perhaps
ending in serious throat and chest troubles. We all know what boys are, and how neglectful they are if mother is not there to keep them up to
the mark, so protect your boys by sending them a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, the prompt and effective cold-banisher. They will be
delighted at your thoughtfulness, and take it to please you at first, and, finding that it banishes the cold and eases the throat so quickly, later
they will fly to it for relief at the first sign of cold.
All our Soldier boys swear by Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. See what some of our boys write: —-
Private
JACK
MOLLOY
(from a
photo).
4
>*!
: j
1 i
■ ■
*. -
Two of our Heroes Praise
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
“When I left Australia
with the 19th Battalion, sth
Brigade, on June 25, 1915, I
packed in my kit a bottle of
‘New Discovery,’ because I
had been suffering while in
camp from catarrh of the
throat. I cured myself com-
pletely with this bottle. I
could not get ‘New Discovery’
in Egypt, but I had some
sent to me at Malta, where I
was lying wounded in Flori-
ana Hospital. I have always
regarded ‘New Discovery’ as
my only friend in the medi-
cine line. I always keep it
near at hand.
“Yours faithfully,
“J. MOULDY,”
“1097, C Co., 19th Batt.”
“I would like to say that
Dr. Sheldon's ‘New Discovery’
has been better to me even
than my luck. I escaped the
severe colds some of my
comrades had because of my
habit of taking a sip of ‘New
Discovery’ every day. It
seems to have made my
throat and lungs cold resist-
ant. lam glad to be able to
add my testimony to the
many pals who have found
‘New Discovery’ their mascot.
“PTE. HARLEY COHEN,
“No. 37, A Company,
“4th Batt., A.1.F.”
Private
HARLEY
COHEN
(from a
photo).
Men women and children all over the country use and know the worth of Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery. Are you one of them? If
not, don't delay, but buy a bottle at once and he ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearance. Don't forget, Dr. Sheldon's New
Discoyery is the ever-ready friend which should be in every household to protect you from all coughs and colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.
D» Sheldon si
New Discovery
Us* 3
OUGHS
AND
OU)S


rr
00
A, Saunders’ Gent.'s Wristlet Watch, jewelled move-
ment, gunmetal or nickel case, 20/«. Extra
jewelled, 25/-, 30/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/- Solid
Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9et. Gold
Signet Ring,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
double cut Dia-
mond Cross-over
King, 18ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Pearls and Red or Green
Stones or Turquoise Gold Brooch, 15/-
Solid-Silver
£2
A. Saunders’ Gent’s High-grade Lever
Watch, double case, full jewelled,
justed movement. Nickel Silver, 30/-.
Solid Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £4, £5,
Gold filled, £3, £4/4/-, £5/5/-, £6/6/-.
Solid Gold, £B/10/-, £lO, £l5, £2O.
All guaranteed.
Gold Filled
£3
A.. Saunders’ 9et.
Gold Wedding
Ring, 10/-
15et., 15/-
18ct, 20/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18c-t.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Boat-shape
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pearls and Amethyst or
i Garnets Scroll Brooch, 9ct. Gold,
25/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl and Garnet or Amethyst
Bar Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 17/6.
A. Saunders.
<;s
Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
acelet, strong safety
price, £3,
£2/10/-, £3/10/-
“Curb” Snap' Padlock,
chain attached. Special
Other sizes, 30/-, £2,
£4/10/-, £5.
a>
. Saunders' pure double cut Diamond Bar
rooch, £2, £2/10/-, £3, according to
size of diamond.
A. Saunders’ Diamonds and Red Stones Gold Bracelet,
Oct. Gold, 35/-
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE.
ALL ORDERS POSTED FREE.
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Aquamarine Circle
Gold Brooch, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Tiffany Wed-
ding Kings,
15et., 25/-
18ct„ 30/-
40/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double tut Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l 2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Cross-over
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Amethyst or Garnet Brooch,
9ct. Gold 20/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Bar Brooch, 9ct.
Gold, 25/-
EES*!""?®!
tsv'*
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£B/10/-. Similar designs, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Half-hoop
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Tablet Ring,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ Pearls and Diamond 2-Bar
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 22/6. 15ct., £2.
20/-
Post Free
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Nickel Open-
face Keyless Lever Watch. Patent ad-
justed balance, non-magnetic time spring,
dust- and water-proof cases, 20/-
Higher grades, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
, All guaranteed.
25/-
Post Free
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway
Station).
Then lose no time in buying a tin of
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Are made from a formula of the Liverpool Throat
Hospital. They are antiseptic and kill the germs.
EVANS, SONS, LBSCHBR & WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
X
O
X
X
O
o
X
c n
m
V)
X
o
x
x
O
[liriaittHSM mim u tel =fc¥ ‘M -A :UU tej 4ctf 1M :J rftN m JJ2
NMVAQ3ISIMI 113 M
dVN IUOHS
we RECOMMEND
HORROCKSES’
/"itasisie/eltet
rOR SAFETY WEAR
and COMFORT
SEE
“HORROCKSES”’
ON
SELVEDGE
fcO
LU
w
X.
U
O
or
DC
0
X
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Meriue
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL TILE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught. 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.’
H
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 na-ms
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows' up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter”
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
supenor guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged.
eloth-coveiTd edition of this srreat work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
W" BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.^
Pbof. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Solderin'®, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated.
1/3. That Rascal Gustave/ 1/-: post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. 1/3. Modern-
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator. 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date
K 3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made East. 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits 11- ■
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (ne\v) 4/fi’
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3 Liff
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses i/o
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver s Guide. 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lf.e's Priceless Recipes 1/6 po=ted
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in m el l
bourne, 1/- posted. The l/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. S*F“Established 25 Years
°NLY A SMALL IDEA t)F MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADYT.
+
Write for m>
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
1 /- H posted. M New T P »,/. llUStrated Guide t 0 the Stage,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush ToNef
tmtfo°ns" S 2/f D Amsto “b N 3 B / 0 6 0K ’ A f" r ? Ctica '
bp &
tory r™ , n p AUC,ioseeh,sg ’ 2/6. Secret His
Writer lT I GI 'f ND ’ 1^. 6 Post. Lovers' Letter
) V t wo I '' All Ai?out Incubators, 1/6. Mor
Ntw F(i it fnn MA i S ?9 R? f E * POSED ’ Ley to all Degrees
I nS Vf posted - X EST Pocket' Dictionary
Sd posted Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works
TO , Read Heau s (Jas. Coates), 1/6
R 0 „p pd - G “ e '^ sses Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted
Assistant i //? ISC t IT Makers and Sugar-Boilers
The , Wife s Handbook, 1/2 posted
fttiTs n f M pm, iDDEKS Works, all at 5/6 posted
tions ant, P iil HY ’ ls - P° st - 100 New Recita
Cure t/o Re A“, ,NGSj ,.- X/3 - Nervousness and Its
Dictionary P i*nn' Webster s Large Unabridged
nvlrt 10 l 1600 illus - leather bound,
Bootmaktn^'an p 3ld (Why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
KOOI MAKING AND REPAIRING, 1/2. DYNAMOS AND
~rn\f?> RS ' OORE '* S Universal Assist-
hoiL t a TE Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
1/” noct o/6 <>o P o OSt^ d ' ~ The Secre ts op Clairvoyance,
eoniDlptp'i “i°/p °hD Tivie Songs (words and music
Ji 6 , p °" tpd - The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR. Cheap Book Depot,
_ _ Market Street, Sydney


Electric Lights
Jyectric Starter
Ignition
Motor Cars
Overland Light Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Overland “Country Clul^
A New Achievement—and
Its Value to You
From motor cars that emphasize the
utmost economy without sacrifice of
quality, to the very highest type of car
in the luxurious class, virtually every
size and type of motor car is represented
in the Willys-Overland group of models.
This is a new achievement in the
motor car industry.
Its has necessarily
been gradual, involving as it did the
accumulation of vast resources, exten-
sive physical properties, an. enormous
amount of equipment and the training
of a huge organization.
This has been distinctly a Willys-
Overland aim and achievement.
V
From the beginning the policy has
been the quantity production of motor
cars of quality.
It has been a steadfast policy to
share the economies and advantages of
quantity production with buyers of
Willys-Overland motor cars.
Heretofore this policy has benefited
certain classes of buyers only. But now
there is a quality motor car in the
Willys-Overland group for every class of
buyer.
Straight through from top to bottom,
quality considered with price, will show
you values in every class, possible only
as the result of this consummation of
Overland plans.
One executive organization,
—one factory management,
one purchasing unit,
—one sales management,
—one dealer organization, produce
and sell all of these models.
Enormous economies thus effected
are thus distributed so that every motor
car shares proportionately.
Any buyers of Willys-Overland
cars regardless of class, save materially.
See the Willys-Overland cars first.
Let us show them to you today.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
"Country Club"
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Complete Catalogues anti /*Wces on Request from—
HEATHORN & CO., Tasmania.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane,
KELLOW FALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willy s-Overland Company Toledo, Ohio, XI. S. A.
Manuiactmexsof WHlys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
and Light. Lorries


HOYT’S PICTURES
Tw° features every night, 3 hours—l2.ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY. 11 to 6.
IDEAL FILM PLAYS.—The all-British-made Films, showing
before any other Theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices-
Saturdays and Holidays. 1/- and 1/6.
one week
6d. & 1/-;
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
at
With
jhbsßS
Throat aw
SSB?
OIKS3
fi#**
"oh**'*:
im
free
trjal
BOTTLE
Lung
Troubles.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Consumption.
!• or any weakness of throat or chest, or any tendency
for ,u troublesome c °ugb, bronchitis or
A lS?° pth e, Standard ’ approved treatment is a
i n „ ~n H s Emulsion. This remedy combines sooth-
stfen^h P nW mg Py° Pert T le u With exce Ptional tonic and
ngthenmg qualities. It heals and strengthens the lunes
Sono°^cedf et ' te ’- greatly imprOVes di gestion, and exert!a
health Nn n ,? nic ’ lnv jg. ora ti n S influence upon the general
nr S T IS SO s t ron giy r ecommended and
Fn^sion^can Cri K edby the me d ical profession, and no other
Emulsion can show so many testimonials to its efficacy.
ANGIER CHEM£CAL?co’ LTD P ° 9tag ri * nd ment *on this paper.
CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There is no silly pretence of morality
about the game nowadays, anyhow. Hume
Cook, secretary of the “National Federa-
tion.” was in Adelaide last week struggling
to fuse Peake and Vaughan. It didn’t come
off, whereupon he started out to “adjust”
the Peacock-Bowser rumpus in Vic. But
before bolting Cook had something to say.
Listen to the telegraphed crystallisation in
.Sydney Telegraph (11/7/T7) :
Mr. Cook hinted that if S. Aus. wanted to stand
well with the Federal Government, it would be wise
to have a National Government, as in the Federal
sphere. S. Aus. would want loans and coal, etc., and
it might make some difference in the wag she u-as
treated whether or not she framed her government on
the Federal model.
And this shameless rattling of the national
cash-box in the ears of the electors is per-
petrated to "establish purity of administra-
tion, rescue the country from the clutch of
a Junta and” (yes)—“to .Win the War!”
REAL FOREBODING.
FATHER ( lecturing ): "My son, suppose I
should be taken away suddenly, what
would become of you?"
IRREVERENT OFFSPRING: “Why, Ed stay
here. T he question is, what would be-
come of you!”
It is proposed to appoint Dan Lew chair-
man of committees in the N.S.VV. Assembly.
Cohen is already Speaker. The Nose have it.
There is to be the expected increase in the
r ederal income tax, and one definite result
will be to raise the Stock Exchange quota-
tions for war bonds, which are exempt from
t.iis taxation. These backstair concessions
are never good; and they are worse than
usual in this case because the concession is
greatest to the richest people. The alterna-
tive is the payment of a higher rate of in-
terest. And that plain alternative had better
be faced. It is an injustice to the community
that hundreds of millions of capital invested
in a mortgage on the industry and produc-
tiveness of Australia should be exempted
from taxation, and that the value of this
security should be swollen by every addi-
tional shilling demanded from other people.
This looks like the beginning of the end.
A statement made by the Prime Minister was
censored last week.
“Country Ped”: More of the advan-
tages of voluntary recruiting. A young
fellow from the country tried to enlist
in three Melbourne suburban depots.
He was rightly rejected each time be-
cause he had had a diseased bone
removed from one leg. He then tried
a central depot and again failed. As
he came out he met three of his mates
going in, and he explained to a ser-
geant that he wanted to go with them.
The sergeant, who was eager to boost
the recruiting figures, told him to
wait till Dr. So-and-So, who was not
so strict, came on duty, and to then
enlist under his adopted name (he
was an adopted son). Ilis eager pupil
passed, trained with the artillery
and is now in England. The authori-
ties there refuse to allow him to go to
the Front, as his diseased leg has
become troublesome again. If waste
and fraud can win the war let us
keep on as we are going.
The practice of Australian Parliaments is
to open proceedings by listening to a Cocked
Hat make a “Speech from the Throne,”
where there is no throne, and then spend
anything from a day to a month talking at
large about whether they should adopt a
resolution expressing thankfulness for the
few remarks which were not a speech. It
is all a sinful waste of time and money.
Ever since Australia has known Parliaments
this wretched debate on the Address-in-
Reply has been used by parties to spar for
wind, the excuse being that “they do it in
England.’’ But they didn’t do it this time
in the House of Reps. Labor, instead of
leaping up, sat back and said nothing.
Whereupon a great confusion fell upon the
Ministry. It was not readv to win the war
or do anything else except talk, and, noticing
this, the Speaker gathered up the mace and
fled while, amid a deep silence, Phewsion
rushed away to see if there was a fag-end
of policy on the premises to go on with—
and, incidentally, pass bitter remarks about
the leadership of Hughes. From that
moment the slump in the little man’s stock
was tremendous.
Ihe first of the flock of curses to be
hatched from the policy of borrow and drift
has just come to roost. Free soup has made
its appearance in Melbourne —dispensed by
well-disposed persons to the children at the
State schools of closely-packed Richmond.
A tale of “thrift.” A shire meat-inspector
was recently appointed also Customs in-
spector at an “honorarium” of £5 per
annum. His first month’s inspecting
ran to 520 carcases, for which the
Customs collected 6d. per carcase from
the meat firm! Profit No 1 (Federal),
£l2-0(1:1. The local authority employs
the inspector at £4 per week. It
charges the killing firm £250 per
annum for inspecting its output. That
is profit No. 2 (municipal). The firm
charges its suppliers 6d. per carcase
for export inspection. Of the 1500
beasts it handles per month it exports
about 500—difference £25. That is
profit No. 3 (commercial). Finally
the firm charges the butcher 6d. per
side, and the butcher passes it on to
the consumer at Id. per lb. —1001 b. at Id-
sav Bs. The profit-making stops there. The
consumer can’t pass it on.
1 ictoria has an association of instructors
employed at Slate technical schools; and in
delivering an address from the chair at a
recent meeting Dr. Pritchard touched the
spot when he demanded the improvement of
the status of these most important people.
Australia wants industrial experts in its
schools as well as in its workshops, plenty of
them and of the right kind ; and it isn’t too
soon to begin putting these nation-builders
in their right place—on the salary list and
elsewhere.
Austen Chamberlain, who has just resigned
his place in the British Cabinet as Secre-
tary for India owing to the Mesopotamian
disclosures, is an amusing example of the
impudence of the British politician. Defend-
ing Viceroy Hardinge (he had nothing to
say for himself) he said :
It would be an evil day if the most popular Viee-
roy India ever had should he hounded out of public
life without a hearing, in answer to the clamor of
an ill-informed mob.
And that’s what the people get for enduring
the censorship-—they are “an ill-informed
mob when some fool blunders so horribly
that the truth can’t all be suppressed.
From the land of the Ivowhai: —
While waiting to discover whether the Cold Hash
Government has enough decency and courage to knock
off depriving the people of a vote, the local inhabi-
FOR MERCIES RECEIVED.
FLO: “Oh, you poor old kid! But what a
blessing it wasn't your arms!"
tant is speculating whether Attorney-General Herd-
man will offer himself a Supreme Court judgeship
and how much longer it will be before Internal
Affairs Russell gets out of the Ministry, or
is pushed out. As a lawyer IJerdman has many
superiors. If he had not gone into politics he would
most likely have been an up-country attorney. And
yet, though it is suspected that lie could persuade
himself to take a Judge’s wig, no man in Maoriland
has railed with greater bitterness against political
“pull” being allowed to influence employment and
promotion in the civil service. As for Russell—he
of the recent allusion to the “convict stain on Aus-
tralia”- —-he is evidently coming to the conclusion
that Cold Hash has pushed him into the breakers and
that the longer he stays there the worse his chance
when an election arrives. Wherefore is he torn between
anxiety to hang on to his job and an impulse to lift
a loud, raucous voice in denunciation of Hash, and
publicly turn 27 indignant somersaults.
After multitudinous years of talk about
fostering industry, regulating conditions of
employment, and spending vast masses of
borrowed cash to develop our great natural
resources, it all boils down to this —can Aus-
tralia build a few ships? If it can’t, isn’t it
about time to seriously consider whether we
have been travelling in the right direction?
Unless a supply of seed can be acquired
from some hitherto unsuspected quarter, Vic-
toria’s beet-sugar industry threatens to stop
for a year or two. Neither France nor
Russia has any to spare, and the Agricul-
tural Department always imported what it
wanted for distribution. Of course, it ought
to have grown seed from the roots at the
factory ; but nobody seems to have thought
of that till there was a war. We begin to
wonder whether we oughtn’t to apologise to
the Kaiser.
After a 10 weeks’ strike the glass-bottle
makers of three States have decided to
accept arbitration and resume work pending
a decision. The turmoil was only a small
one, affecting 1500 men in all, but it means
the dead loss of about £50,000 in wages
alone. And the time is not far off when for
want of £50,000 in the stocking some of
those 1000 men are going' to feel very miser-
able.
• “l £°. bb ® r ” : What sort of an advertisement
is this tor the “best-clothed and best-paid
army in the world”? In the vicinity 7 of A.I.F.
Headquarters, in the pick of Westminster’s
slums, are dozens of shops, mostly owned by
l!ds, which do remarkably well out of sup-
piynig ‘complete outfits for Australian sol-
diers. Its just as well we are well paid,
otherwise we wouldn’t be able to appear
decently dressed. As to that pay, to have a
large credit balance in your book is one thing,
and getting the money is quite another—it’s
like di awing blood from a war-profiteer.
But, there, these details don't interest you
people. Tell me, what won the Hurdles?'
i <G ’lu” : J‘ Ra^ aplan ” (B - 5/7/T7) tells
how the Win by Jaw Ministry is piW
up the expenses of government while it
Thnft.. I know a civil servant,
attached to the Prime Minister’s own staff
who is drawing about £5OO a year, but has
not done a tap of work for months. He is
walking about the streets one of the most
miser-aide chaps in the city, for he happens
to be conscientious. 1
Illuminating cable from London:—
In an article in Reynolds’s Mr. Holman instances
as a fundamental principle of sound food control
State trawling in N. S. Wales, which included dis-
tribution and had resulted in the reduction of the
cost of fish by fourpence per lb. The scheme had
been temporarily suspended owing to stupid labor
troubles.
This is not mere inaccuracy. The last
report of the Auditor-General showed a loss
on the undertaking of £10,958 and condemned
"the almost hopeless state of chaos into
which the business drifted.” The undertak-
ing has been muddled and bungled from the
start, and Holman knows it. lie also knows
that if J. Bull tried to feed himself on the
lines held up for admiration, the army would
be starving in a week. But what does truth
matter to the party politician?
One rabbit-poisoner one inspector is the
motto of the Vermin Destruction Branch of
the Vic. Public Service. An inspector was
a while ago put to look after the work of
two men ; but the job proved too much for
him and a second inspector was sent to the
rescue. That is the way to make the work
go round: and. after all. isn't that the policy
of the local P.L.C.?
From the Gallery :
Billy Hughes was always humorously vain; but
the joke has grown enormously since May 5. The
deceased monarch who made his motto “I am the
State’' was an artist in self-effacement compared
with the Welsh bungler who insists on being the
head of every department. Yet even old gallery
hands rubbed their eyes the other day when they saw
Hughes directing his Ministers’ replies to a fusillade
of inquiries shot from all parts of the Chamber.
The curious part of the matter was that they obeyed
orders in so Prussian a manner that the absence of
salutes seemed like a gross breach of discipline. But
the gallery knows it can’t last long. Cook will put
up with much, but Forrest won't consent to be
publicly butchered to provide a pretence of Cabinet
solidarity. The immediate political future is there-
fore interesting. Considering that Cook and Forrest
are still struggling secretly for the Liberal leader-
ship and Watt and Irvine have powerful ambitions
unsatisfied, one might venture to say that the future
is absorbing.
One of the by-products of the last election
is the Victorian Labor College, which has
hung out its shingle in Melbourne. It will
provide a hard diet of literature, economics
and industrial history for its students, and
as a factory for turning out capable union
secretaries its prospects seem good. There
was already a Workers’ Educational Asso-
ciation, but it has so far proved a rather
damp squib, mainly because it can’t be relied
upon to tell Bill Bowyangs what he wants
to hear. The new Labor College, on the
other hand, sports the ticket, and is ulti-
mately to be controlled by the subscribing
unions.
THE FORTUNE OF WAR.
BILLJIM : “Just my luck! An' to think that
this is the only bloomin’ wall left stand-
ing in the whole town."
Many hard things have been said about
tlie conscientious” objector, and indignities
have come his way that have been hard to
a 'e. *>ut the limit was reached recently in
Hampshire (Eng.). Some German prisoners
of war refused to work with him !
THE SIN BEARER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Other motions bearing on the war were also
.■arried.” —Daily gaper.
We carried motions with persistent force ;
To each we talked with patriotic fire.
The war, tongue-steered, must keep its even course;
We could not let it wobble or expire.
All that we said bore on the main contention—
Each phrase we held a win-the-war invention.
Far off the guns were loud by night and day,
The purple blood lay on the summer grass ;
Such was the outer showing ( of the play.,
The shadow that must murder, roar and pass."'
But something larger, darker, more tremendous,
The fates that wait on politicians lend us.
The war, if you would see the thing aright,
Is one vast organ we must fill with breath ;
Our windy resolutions keep it tight,
And we must talk or lose the thing in death ;
And a dead war, on all the evidences,
Smells ruin in its thousand moods and tenses.
We carry motions with persistent force
All bearing on the thing from which we draw
The right to make our throats a little hoarse,
And keep a steady movement in the jaw.
O blessed guns, our dulled reputes repairing !
This large, kind war our sins and hopes is bearing.
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Popular SHILLING NOVELS
AC3IB IfCE,
A TALE OF
. TOMORROW
JoMnSaNWIS
in the
“Bookstall” Series
of
Australian Books.
A Series of
NINETY SPLENDID BOOKS
by Australia’s Best Authors.
DotIBLE
ON
i
SALES EXCEED 1,500,000 COPIES. Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers.
11- each All One Price —posted 1/1
HUMOR.
“THE MISSING LINK,”
By EDWARD DYSON
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY
“THE SPRING CLEANING,”
By THOS. E. SPENCER
SPORTING.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE,’’
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“WOLAROI’S CUP,’’
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
By F. AGAR.
Stee/e Rudd’s Famous Selection Stories .
HISTORICAL.
“OX HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,”
By LOUIS BECKE.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
By DON DELANEY.
BUSH NOVELS.
“THE CALLING VOICE,”
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
“CHANDLER OF CORRALINGA,”
By R. J. CASSIDY.
“MUM DAWSON, BOSS,”
By SUMNER LOCKE.
n
m £.iw
,A
Two New Novels
now in the Press:
“THE SILVER STAR,”
. By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A great Australian mining story.
“THE SELECTOR GIRL,”
By BRODA REYNOLDS.
A fascinating story of the bush.
EROS!
WIN
. by “
FAGAR
-.JZ
Write l for :i Complete Catalogue of the “Bookstall” Series.
NINETY NOVELS in this great Australian Fiction Library.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street,
—— SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(HX 2/6.)
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6. >
By WILL OAKLAND,
Famous wherever he sings as “Sweet-
voiced Will Oakland” and as the
possessor of a high vocal range of unique brilliance.
10-inch REGAL Records.
G 7366
< m Change the Thorns to Roses (Cheney and Fredericks)
I The Longest Way Round Is the Sweetest Way Home (Kerry Mills).
07367
j Peek-a-800 (W. J. Scanlon)
( Baby Mine (A. Johnson)
G 7368
( White Wings (Banks Winter)
) Only to See Her Face Again (J. E. Stewart)
G 7369
It’s a Long Way Back to Dear Old Mother’s Knee (Mohr)
•Just One Word of Consolation (T. Lemonier)
G 7370
Wait Till the Clouds Roll liy, Jennie (Fulmer)
We’ve Been Chums for Fifty Years (Chattaway)
G 7371
Take This Letter to My Mother (Will S. Hays)
Only a Pansy lUossom (Frank Howard)
G737J
When the Robins Xest Again (Howard)
Mother Machree (Olcott and Hall)
G 7373
We’re Growing: Old Together (H. A. Dinsmore)
I’ll Await My Love (Howard)
G 7374
I With All Her Faults I Love Her Still (Rosenfield)
( As I Sat Upon My Dear Old Mother’s Knee (Skelly)
G 7375
A Garland
You’re Just
of Old-Fashioned Roses (Keithleyj
as Sweet at Sixty as You Were at Sweet Sixteen (Helf)
07376
j Emmett’s Lullaby (J. K. Eminett)
1 Pretty Pond Lilies (Halil
G 7377
( The Cass from County Mayo (Browne)
i You Can’t Make Me Stop Loving You (Kerry Mills)
By MANUEL ROMAIN,
Especially popular not merely for
his unique voice, but for the rare
sympathy and feeling he infuses into his singing.
10-inch REGAL Records.
G 7378
Always Think of Mother (Haller and
That’s How I Need You (Piantadosi)
Stafford)
G 7379
j When I Lost You (Berlin)
l When It Rains, Sweetheart, When It Rains (Berlin)
G 7380
When Sally in Our Alley Sings Those Old Time Songs to Me (Osborne
Daddy Has a Sweetheart (Stamper)
G 7381
Why Did You Make Me Care? (Solman)
I Dove the Girl My Father Doved (Pierce and O’Gorman)
G 7382
f Love Has Done Wonders for Me (Solman)
l Would You Take Me Baek Again (Solman)
07383
( There’s One in a Million Like You (Schwartz). With Quartette.
/ I Miss You Most of All (Monaco)
G 7384
f She’s Dancing Her Heart Away (Mills)
1 That’s a Real .Moving Picture From Fife (H. Von Tilzer)
G 7385
( You're More Than All the World to Me (Solman)
| Rose of the Glen (Castello and Self)
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Dakins House, Rawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St,
BRISBANE, Q. —King: and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S. A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H_ R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.®4—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton. Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
TRYING SOMETHING NEW.
There seems to be a weakness in H uman Nature to try everything new that comes along. This
is so well known that certain clever people are continually bringing new things, or rather old
things with new names, to catch these inquisitive folk. Most of these things have little or no merit,
and are tried once or twice and then discarded. When the Public continues to take a remedy like
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills year in and year out there is a good sound reason why.
They try the other things but soon find something wanting, and they come back to the reliable
remedy that they can depend on. There is no use saying “Don’t waste your money experimenting,’’
because it will be waste of time. Try these things by all means. Try internal lubrications and
fill your system with mineral oil to do the work of the Bile, Nature’s own lubricant. Try every
new brand of salts on the market, every new tablet that has claims made for it that any kind of
food can be taken in any quantity if only this tablet is taken to digest it. Try them all, and soon
it will be found there is something lacking. There will be something that does not seem just right
in the after effect, and then come back to Dr. Morse’S Indian Root Pills and note the
change. There is a general feeling of satisfaction and buoyancy not experienced from these
other so-called remedies.. This is what has occurred for years. After trying many experiments
with things that are heavily boomed, it is found that the satisfactory result is absent. The reason
is very simple. In Dr. Morse’S Indian Root Pills there is a proved combination of
ino-redients that form one compound that is highly efficient for the Liver and Allied Organs, not
merely flushing the system as these other remedies do without getting at the cause, but aiding in
the digestion of the food, and above all acting definitely on the Liver. This is the secret of the
difference, and the reason why many of these new fads are tried a few times and found so ineffective
that they are quickly abandoned, and Dr. Morse’S Indian Root Pills again resorted to
and found to accomplish everything that is claimed for them.


The chronic optimist is now enjoying him-
self some over the Russian croakings of the
chronic pessimist and is chuckling cheer-
fully, especially when inspired by that opti-
mistic spirit King George IV. top-notch
Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Hcif*Voy S Special Whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNja?
vecu&z
LEWIS & MAKFRS
No one can afford to waste.
Spend only what is necessary
and then always with an eye
to saving. Men, be practical
economise — shave your-
selves.
rZZZ2ZZ22EP
NO STROPPING NO HONING
One bought to-day will save many a
shilling in a year, and hours of your
valuable time. Many styles to
choose from. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. H*»ffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
TRADE
MARK
sffgscßl
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVE.R
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
VITALITY FOR MEN
tJ°nT£ « ak f eV6r £ “°“ ent <>f life a joy by adopting
Fvpn° thf | ys . tem °f. Scientific Physiological Culture.
Lven the first week s Treatment will give you an
improvement almost beyond belief.
It will develop your figure—broaden your shoulders,
deepen your chest, give you wonderful muscle develop-
ment and a perfect carriage. 1
If your physical and nervous system is depleted if
you are losing vitality, nerve and strength—if vou are
tired and worn out by the day’s work—if vou are thin
anaemic, sallow, nervous, despondent, undeveloped for-
getful, listless-if you have backache, conTipktion
UTS'S- organ? a'rUfcked-S' oSTs££ -If
St'S' on,e J 0” U h bac° r !f,h s e 5 50,T01!
FREE! THE ORLOFF BOOK
The Orloff Book tells the complete sinrv +i^ UL ' 19 /' /’l7.
System of Culture. It expliiifs ° f thlS wonder-working
THE ORLOFF SYSTEM. 64 PITT STREEt! SYDNEY. N.S.W.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Tile two youngest and fastest of the
dangerous candidates for the G. N. Steeple jumped
accurately throughout the journey, and, with the
solitary exception of the more lightly weighted
ltenong, nothing troubled them after tne second fence.
Renong was ultimately beaten for stamina, and
finished a poor fourth behind Maorilander Waimai,
the best spectacular jumper among the 18 starters.
With handsome, tearaway Icon out of the field (he
was scratched an hour before the race), there was
nothing to rush out with a commanding lead; so it
happened that the particularly fast pace was not
generally realised until the time was posted on the
board. The two cracks were going so easily that
they seemed to be merely shining by comparison
with a weak opposition. As a matter of fact, the
time was 3isee. better than the record. Old Mun-
gindi ran mostly a bit behind Caibye for two and
a half miles; then he closed with the leader and
they took the final jump on about level terms.
Though they raced together down the straight, Mun-
gindi always promised to outlast the nag that had
91b. the worse of the weights, and he eventually
won nicely by nearly a length. A beautifully excit-
ing rate for backers of the two star performers. A
rotten race for backers of the seven—-including
Cobram, Kuda, Pinon and Glenquinn—that fell by
the way. Of these only Kuda looked likely to have
any sort of say in the finish. He was running fifth
in the last quarter of the trouble, and was making
up leeway when he came down. But for actual win-
ning purposes Old Mungindi and Caibye were the
only pair worth considering—if they stood up. And
they did stand up. Two previous winners, in Flash
Jack and Coradjill, completed the journey wearily.
They were just a pair of old ones carrying pounds
more than when they scored their respective vic-
tories in considerably slower time. They had no
chance —as the race was run. Circumstances were
dead against them.
The result was unique in that the winner and third
horse were strangers to the course, and the runner-
up had only once before travelled it in public.
They flew in the face of precedent, as it were, and
put all the theorists to confusion. Caibve beat a
poor field over the big sticks on the Wednesday, but
that was only his second appearance as a steeple-
chaser anywhere. Waimai had not been a week in
Victoria, so he is clearly a better horse than his
appearance suggested, and his jumping is good to
see. Old Mungindi never showed great promise on
the track until the very last week of his prepara-
tion ; consequently the touts in general had reported
badly of him. Although he had been favorite for
weeks Ikev Mo laid stol at the start. Mungindi’s
first schooling over fences after his arrival from
Sydney was a somewhat ludicrous exhibition; and
even when his claim to jumping powers had been
vindicated, he worked so sluggishly that many of
the Caulfield trainers would have none of him. But
in the few days immediately before the race he was
himself again. All the same, it is probable that he
was not quite at his best last Saturday.
For the last 15 G. H. Steeples the average weight
of the winner has been lOst. 121 b. and a trifle over.
Coradjill and Mungindi, the last two winners, were
close to the average, for they each carried list.
Four winners in all have humped that particular
burden; three others have been on the 10? t. 121 b.
mark since the race was established in 1881, and
nine have carried something not more than lOst. 61b.
nor less than lOst. Redleap, with 13st. 31b., holds
the record and is not likely to lose it. Grafnax got
third place with the ..crusher of 13st. 51b. up.
The Rajah of Bhong was just the happiest man
on the V.R.C. course last Saturday after he had
brought off the double. His luck W'as in when King
Moyston—otherwise Mostyn—won the Doutta Galla
Hurdle from Merunqua and Pistolier. The King
won easily enough, with all the best of the weights,
but he had luck in escaping a fall, especially when
he made one very bad jump half-way through the
journey. The slashing son of Mountain King is a
horse of moods and a most eccentric jumper even
"'hen his temper is comparatively sweet. Coming to the
hurdle he gets troubled and makes a great to-do
about clearing it on the V. v: Yet after losing ground
in that silly way he land <. cleverlv on the other side
of the obstacle, and seems to gain more in the, get-
away than he lost in the come-on.
The two minor jumping events on the last day
at Flemington were interesting for different reasons.
Tn the Footscrav Steeple the oldest battler in the
business, The Mi«er, showed a gleam of his ancient
brightness bv winning comfortable- after bis most
dane-erous opponent had blundered. The flight of
years and many failures bad brought The Miser down
to bottom weight, and bis fall earlier in the week
(due to another fellow blundering in front of Idm)
had_ not hurt the patriarch. In the Trial Hurdle,
which came next on the programme, it was a case
of comparative excellence in a field of commoners.
But excellence wouldn’t take kindlv to the hurdles
Polygamist was the same sour stallion as before, and
he lagged behind, with Cairns trving to persuade
him, until victorv seemed absolutely impossible. Then
the sulky laggard started on a long, long run and
appeared to be winning brillianflv until be soured
on it again and let himself p e beaten bv half a length
Had he persevered with bis belated effort to the
bitter end the imported horse would have “brought
down the house.”
The scratching of Booligal for the G. Tf. Steenle
was a disapnomtment to the crowd that has got
many an exciting entertainment from the old chap s
determined manner of rushing to the front and stop-
ping there till he was all out. Booligal is the un-
luckiest animal at the game, notwithstanding his
several wins. Without having once succeeded in
pulling oif a classic steeplechase, he was put up top
in the weights, and with 12st. and 12st. 51b. on his
back he has been placed second and third in the G. N.
and Australian Steeplechases. The trouble has been
to get him quite fit for the long job. There were
times when he was full of muscle and ready to jump
out of his skin, but they were not the times when
the pink of condition was most needed. Something
has always happened to interfere with his winter
preparation. This year he was coming on at
the end of June, but he hadn't done work enough to
brace him up for the National journey. So he
dropped out at the final acceptances, and a lot of
punters mourned their loss before the race came to
pass.
Because Broken Hill is quite mad the local
race-meeting fixed for last Saturday was under boy-
cott and had to be abandoned; so Tatt.’s sweep on
the Cup was drawn on the Warwick Farm Handicap
(Sydney) instead. And either because not enough
was laid to nothing, or because the mokes were
not very well, 10 of the acceptors were scratched
on the course. This did no harm, though, to who-
ever drew Blazing Hot, an animal whose chances of
winning if some of the others had stayed in were
rather remote. This nag won and did Ike a good
turn. Kagal, who won the Farm Stakes with Bst.
81b. at the same meeting, is in among the light-
weights for the Epsom and Metropolitan.
* * * *
Some of the clubs racing on the “outer
circle’’ of Sydney—small affairs having little attrac-
tion for other than habitual racing people—are tired
of running the totalisator at a loss. Wherefore they
interviewed Acting-Premier Fuller the other day
and explained that the cut of the commission on a
basis of 7 per cent, to the Government and 3 per cent,
to the clubs was, on a limited turnover, a good deal
less than a fair thing, since 3 p.c. did not pay the
mere cost of operation. They suggested that the
scale of division should be revised to at any rate
relieve them of a heavy charge for securing public
revenue. The answer given by Fuller was of the
same character as previous Ministerial observations
on this subject. He heavily explained that the
object of installing the totalisator was “to secure
revenue’’ and was afraid the Government could not
agree to surrender any of what was due to it, par-
ticularly as the returns from the machine had been
“a long way below the estimate.” Further, the
bewildered Fuller made a few noises about the com-
petition of “concession betting” by Ike and an inten-
tion to place the whole matter under consideration.
Almost simultaneously with these drivelsome remarks
another member of the Ministry was assuring Israel
that the books would continue to do business at the
old address so long as the “National” Ministry
remained in existence!
The complaint put before Fuller by the clubs was
entirely legitimate. The policy pursued by the Gov-
ernment regarding the machine has all along been
outrageous, and that it is resulting in failure merely
justifies the criticism of the scheme advanced in this
paper from the very day the authorising legislation
made an appearance. The 7 and 3 per cent, division
of the revenue was the result of either a trickster’s
design to paralyse the machine or of an ignoramus
having his way. In either case the thing is rotten,
because so long as such a division endures it
leaves the racing clubs entirely dependent on Mac-
Shortodds and maintains a double-barrelled svstem
for which no defence is possible. The case for the
totalisator rests wholly upon this—That it affords a
method by which revenue for the promotion of rac-
ing can be acquired and by which the public mav
bet on a co-operative pljrn, the necessitv for the
bookmaker thus vanishing*! If this is not true there
should be no tote. If it is true the machine should
be worked on lines to justify its use. With 3 per
cent, going to the clubs, 7 per cent, to the Govern-
ment and the books wide open next door, the machine
is in many cases useless and in no case fulfils its
legitimate purpose. The whole business of racing in
N. S. Wales is in the wildest disorder, and it is just
about time the politicians who are to blame got rid
of their irresolution and proceeded to' clean up the
mess. It is not true that the object of the totalisator
is “to secure revenue for the Government” anv
more than it is that theatrical performances, from
w hich a revenue is secured, are given with the object
of providing Ministries with funds. It merely comes
in incidentally that the totalisator is an object from
which the State can obtain a certain income. Further
it is an affront to public decency that anything call-
ing itself a racing club should be allowed" to use the
instrument simply because there is 7 per cent, to go
to the Treasury. Such revenue is dearly purchased.
* * * * *
On with the dance! There was a letter in
a Sydney paper _ the other day explaining that the
crowded train going to a country race meeting passed
through paddocks in which girls were learning to
plough.
* * * *
Curtailment of sport! The very words
are a mockery. It is not curtailment of sport weineed,
but the obliteration of all these wretched distractions
which bring the term “sport” into disrepute. Be-
tween the ideas held by decent men of w-hat sport
really is and the notions entertained bv wowsers
guessers, flabbergasted politicians and the assorted
crowd who prostitute for gain a fine human instinct
there is a difference measured by miles. To merelv
“curtail” what is going on in Australia and do it in
the interests of winning the war is to leave the roots
of a pest as disastrous as the pear in Bananaland
rhe racing end of it, anyhow, wants no priming-
knife. An axe is the only suitable weapon for it
and the people who wield the implement should not
be of the type who maunder about winning wars,
but citizens with a sense of sportsmanship’ about
them and a clear conception of deeenev. War or no
war there is a job for them. It has 'been too long
postponed. 6
Entries for the A.J.C. classic events of
1918 number 416 for the Derhv (nine more than
100 7 eai \ a nd within cooee of the record of 435) •
383 for the Geger (five less than last vear) ; 415 for
Champagne Stakes (same as last rear). But for the
other roung” races there is a big drop. The biggest
Derby fields were 16 in 1911 and 1916
* * * *
The leaders of sport in South Aus. have
met to consider the restriction question ; but as the
newspapers point out. there is hardly anything left
to restrict. S.A. has taken the war seriously, and
stopped all senior cricket, football, tennis and
lacrosse; a “patriotic association’’ which arranges a
little temporary football is not allowed access to any
of the chief grounds. Bowls continues; but that
hardly keeps anybody from the war. So does racing;
but S.A. racing has always restricted itself. There
are no ponies, no proprietary clubs, no “small” meet-
ings, no fixtures except on Saturdays and an occa-
sional holiday; the whole metropolitan district has
not enough race-days to average one for alternate
Saturdays through the year. In fact, S.A. racing
just about conforms to the ideal lately sketched in
The Bulletin.
**\ * *
The ss. tote at Richmond (N.S.W.) trots
the other day paid a dividend of £25 7s. on the
winner of a race in which 11 started. Ikey was
offering 15 to 1. When this page hears of a con-
cession fielder offering 100 to 1 against something
at Randwick and undertaking to hand out 40 to 1
if the animal runs second, the time will seem ripe to
watch for miracles.
TOMMY UREN, Middleweight Champion.
Larry Foley, best known of all Australian
pugilists, for one way and another his fame spread
over a dozen generations in athletics, died last week.
Born on the Turon at the time of the first gold rush
Larry was brought to Sydney at three years old with
his father, a man in very humble circumstances—he
got his living as a basket-hawker. Larry was with-
out education, but he had something better —a won-
derful amount of moral and physical grit. When in
his teens he found that he had a punch, and used it
on Sandy Boss, a cab-driver, wiio thought he had
one also. Larry beat him —beat him twice —-with
bare knuckles. Then he got a public-house, a small
affair at the start, but he worked up to the White
Horse in George-street, where he established a
boxing saloon and made money. He invested in
property, and later became a contractor for demolish-
ing buildings and sinking foundations. He swept
away many buildings of historic note, amongst them
being the Good Samaritan Convent and all the
ancient hutches that occupied the site of the present
Central Bailway Station. When success came,
Larry took great care of his parents ; also he pre-
pared an elaborate vault in the Waverity Cemetery,
where their remains were laid, and where his own
body was interred on Saturday.
The story of Larry's fights and his appearance as
Charles the Wrestler in a Shakspearean production
(one night he insisted on taking a fall out of
Orlando) make an oft-told tale. Of later years he
was best known as the mentor of Bob Fitzsimmons,
Jim Hall, Peter Jackson and other famous special-
ists. He had a natural aptitude for Bash and was
a very fine boxer, but never fought a glove battle.
The end was expedited by a Turkish wash. The old
man’s big heart went back on him for the first time.
* * * *
After Tommy Uren and Jimmy Clabby
had pasted one another the whole wav at Melbourne
Stadium, judgment was given for Thomas, it was
about right. Thomas was stopping a lot during the
first half of the proceedings, and James interrupted
a bit more during the remainder of the riot. What
the writer was pondering over mostly was the luck
Uren has had. Clabby is a long way from being the
man he was three years ago. Uren was not in the
picture then. Had he tried to butt in at that time
the things that would have been done to him are
pitiful to think about. Yet here he is a champion
walloping men who not long ago looked more like
champs, than he ever will. There is a lot of luck
about the k.o. trade.
Matty Smith tried to introduce some un-
conventional bash to Herb McCoy at Brisbane on
Saturday, but Herbert wasn’t taking any. Matthew
varied the menu each round. He tried sneaking in
with uppercuts. Next he loosened left swings from
smothers. When this failed he jumped in with prods
on the nasal department. To all of these efforts
McCoy responded with something just a pound or
two heavier. Early in the seventh round Smith was
given notice to quit, but refused to forsake the
perpendicular until McCoy had reminded him half
a dozen times that it was up to him to lie down
* » *
“Mud Hook”: In the A.I.F. they are
pretty severe on gambling, but to keep Billj'im out
of mischief he is allowed to play “House.” It’s
the only flutter officially allowed', and in camps
and troopships is a settled institution. The banker
lets out cards at one penny each. Each card has
about a dozen numbers between one and 90 and
as the banker draws each number out of a hat the
holder, whoever it may be, places a bit of cork or
stf ’! le 0" t ll3 * number. The firgt tQ gpt hig card fu]l
yells full house and collects the cash, le&vingr a
percentage for the banker. After pay-dav the banker
calls no .man his uncle. It’s all luck, of course, but
a certain amount of military education is necessary
to plav it Who but a soldier would know that
t en , x? an^er yells Medicine and duty” you are
to put the stone in No. 9 if it’s*on your card?
“Murkah” : On the face of it the hare’
opinion of coursing, as furnished by “Koala” (B
28/6/T7), would not appear to be debatable
But I have been going to the dogs for years, and am
convinced there is room for doubt. More-than once
I have seen a hare, though handy to the escapes
turn around and come down the ground again. Tha
it knew its way about was proved by the beeline i
made for home when it tired of the sport. On the
open 1 have frequently seen a hare turn and twist
as though hard-pressed, and then just run right awa\
from its pursuers. A hare, known by an absent ear,
once lived near the same country town, in Vic. as 1
did, and provided all the “trials” thereabouts foi
years. Hardly a day passed but it was coursed
Occasionally a couple of good dogs chased it clear
out of the electorate ; but it always returned—a fact
which doesn't suggest fright or horror of the busi-
ness. The fact is that getting caught isn’t in the
hare’s encyclopaedia, because caught hares don’t live
to yarn about it. Plumpton hares, when released
from the escapes, never exert themselves till turned
by the dogs. But an undoubted cruelty, occasionally
seen on the enclosures, is the coursing of insuffici".
entlv-trained hares that dash around the ground
looking vainly for the escapes, and are finally snapped
up. I agree with “Koala” that a kill is always
horrible. ■—
* * * *
“Benno” : We’ll put it down to the spite
of Providence, I think. Five members of a Sydney
cricket club pushed off at the beginning. They got
as far as Melbourne when Bill contracted pneu-
monia. He was buried at sea between Melbourne
and Albany. Later on, the trooper ran into a mon
soon, and Tom broke His ankle. They put him off at
Colombo, and he caught the first hospital ship back
to Australia. The remaining three took up their
residence in the shadow of the Great Pyramid. Here
Dave got a bit careless with bucking bronchos and
stopped one on the jawbone. Three months later he
kissed his girl in Sydney. Meantime Bob and Jack
were pushing along together and on April 25, 1915,
they splashed ashore at Gallipoli. The 26th saw
Bob hanging on to a bit of cover, sniping away at
Abdul, and wondering what had befallen his mate.
He continued wondering right through to the evacua-
tion, when he accidentally found out that all that re-
mained of Jack was hidden beneath a little wooden
cross in Shrapnel Gully. Bob sighed and carried on
to France. I’d like to know w'hat’s in store for him.
A limb was detaclied from a great sport-
ing family by the death in Franco of Phil Thomas,
of Toowoomba (Q.). George pulled on a Rugby
Union jersey for N.S.W. ; brothers Charlie and Fred
were topnotcliers at tennis and cricket; and Phil made
88 at Toowoomba against Stoddart’s ’97 English XI.
The dead man leaves a widow and half a dozen young
Australians.
* * * #
Killed in France, Pte. Tom Dowzer, of
Rockhampton, one of Bananaland’s crack swimmers
and rifleshots. For doing things in the wet Thomas
Held 29 gold medals, two cups and numerous other
trophies. He pulled off the junior Central Queensland
Championship in 1910-11, and the Sixty Yards Junior
Championship in the following year. The time for
the latter dash (36sec.) still holds the record. In
’l3 he was second to finish in the 100 Yards Cham-
pionship of the State, and two years later was second
in the 220 Yards Championship. His fastest time
was against Duke Kahanamoku, when, off ssec., he
beat the flying Duke for the George Carr Cup! He
had been on the job in France just over a year.
* * * *
Died in Adelaide, at 46, Bertie Wood,
formerly one of the finest polo-players S. Aus. has
produced. He didn’t like the family’s city ware-
house, and was with Kidman outback for some years
—until, in fact, he settled down to vine-growing for
himself.


Timely Talk on a Vital
Subject !
Learn to bo* and .you’ll appreciate the benefit of such training.
Inability to defend yourself is dangerous. THEREFORE —
write to-day for my interesting booklet, “SCIENTIFIC
EOXtXCr IN TOUR HOME,” wherein my methods, fees, etc.,
are given.
I Teach Boxing by Post.
My wide knowledge of the manly art of “Self-
defence” teaches you every hit, move and
stop known to the world’s leading boxers.
My instructions are simple, and under my
personal guidance you will be surprised at
the results obtained.
Just write your name and address across
this advertisement, and post it to me with
three penny stamps for postage, and I will
send you my interesting booklet, which tells
all about my methods, terms, etc.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
631 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Siris Cigars
%
V- s'-
m.
The equal of
smokes often
soldatdouble
the price.
Boxes of $0
Postage 9d. J J!^
Boxes of 100
Postage 1/3 2216
A Sample Cedar
Cabinet of 5 will
be forwarded any-
where on receipt
of 1/6.
Actual Size.
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,”
19 Hunter Street, Sydney, M.S.W.
Jn Any.
Condition
m
BENZINE
IS RELIABLE
R^LUAJ
"the spirit”
OF THE WAR
THE ENEMY OF
BRITISHERS
ENEMIES.
HEL
BENZINE
v\\*
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
Catalogue “ D " with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
esB
tSO
m
UP
||TdHcy° u
m
NATIONAL
BENZINE
When you feed your engine—the “heart” of your car —with
“National” —a spirit “live” with energy and “drive” —you are
assuring for yourself most miles per gallon and troubleless running.
Try “National” with YOUR Car —you’ll note its quicker “pick
up,” its greater driving force and cleanliness with the first gallon
you use.
Obtainable all Garages & Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Victoria. Square, Adelaide.
/
I
0
ft
♦.
*
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
lb Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
SI
m
J
-VU,
*
arite ” Derb>
e-for All-round
msmm
i
Wmm
i:-V>
P#JP
|vi^— *W»i .<6**
i ■
it
“mfi
fnt "i
-or.
r %
4'i#-
** ,'v,V
sSg^|»ggg*sS
v
Worth all of
1251,:
V :v{/« ... :••
to tell it
- much 'below its., market
vVaJue^pcause'our big and early
in the case of this
particular line left us unaffected
the rises ip leather. - .
ree
The “Wearite" Derby is made with a thoroughness and attention to
detail usually associated only with high-priced Footwear —in Fine.
Fully Matured Box Calf —Leather Lined —with Stout Sole and full,
round Toe. —A Boot that combines Comfort and Capacity for Service
with Lightness and Good Looks, and a particularly Valuable Boot
for Country Use.
GIVE YOUR ORDER NOW.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Pty.
Ltd.
“SPECIALISTS IN OUTFITTING BY MAIL/'
244-254 FLINDERS ST. = MELBOURNE.


The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely
Vegetable.
Cmm
ITTLE
IV ER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dota—Smill Prloa.
GENUINE must bear signature
'.'•mm,
1
Nothing equals
Series
fo r wear*
Aps/ Ot/e
3r/f/s/) Made
Avoid Spurious Imifahons.
Look for Lhe above
Trade Marks on every yard.
Ausfra/idn fteprese/tfof/ws
Box 1802 G P O
- Sydney -
Grey Hair —Home
Remedy,
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has only
to get from the chemist two ounces of con-
centrate of tammalite and mix it with three
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with
a small sponge for a few nights and the
greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula.—Advt. [2
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY. Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Bole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
Tfcntit’S
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT. LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM,
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
PrnVit Sc Co.. 22?> Strand, Loudon.
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
Miss Gladys Cooper Explains
Some Beauty Secrets.
The Popular London Star Favors Simple /Methods.
I have been asked to give a few simple recipes that 1 know, either through personal
use or by observation, to be valuable to the toilet, and which are within the reach of the
average woman. In these days of £lOO facial treatments and elaborate and expensive
beautifying processes my suggestions may read like lessons in economy, but they are
not especially so intended. They are merely practical suggestions, in which the keynote
is “effectiveness.” All the materials or ingredients which I mention are either already
at hand in the home or may be readily procured from the chemist. Fortunately Ido not
suffer from the ailments or troubles enumerated below, but some people who are not so
fortunate have told me their experiences, and with your permission I will set forth some
remedies which they have found to be efficacious.
Home-made Hair Tonic.
My acquaintances say that a good stimulant
to the natural growth of the hair is boranium.
A very simple, effective and safe stimulating
lotion made up by mixing one ounce of bora-
nium with } pint of bay rum. This may be
applied to the hair roots occasionally with the
finger-tips with good results.
Complexion Renewals.
Complexion experts advise me that a normal,
healthy complexion is constantly renewing it-
self by dropping off tiny flakes of worn-out
tissue, thus revealing the fresh young skin
underneath. They say that when this process
is checked by age, expo-
sure or some of many
causes, the complexion
becomes dull and ugly.
The rational treatment
recommended is to help
the skin perform the
natural functions of
“shedding” worn-out tis-
sue. For this purpose. I
am informed, there is
nothing so good as pure
mercolized w r ax, used for
a few nights, .lust as yon
would use a face cream.
It is claimed that it pos-
sesses a special affinit'-
for the effete scarf-skin,
which it quickly removes
by absorbing it. The face.
I am assured, will soon
look much younger and
preiiier under this treat-
ment.
The Curling Iron.
Don’t use a hot iron to
cur] your hair. Some of
my friends make the cun-
ningest sort of curls
wherever they want
them simply bv damp-
ing the hair with liquid
silmerine before retiring
at night. When the hair is dry in the morn-
ing it will be softly curly just where you
want it to be. This method is perfectly harm-
less, even beneficial to the hair, and tiie curls
last a long time. The liquid is quite pleasant
and neither sticky nor greasy.
How to Shampoo.
Most women. I am informed, do not know
how to use stallax properly when shampooing
wuth it. Unless the hair is naturally very
oily, a stallax shampoo may sometimes leave
it rather dry. But I am told if you will apply
olive oil freely to your hair and scalp just
before shampooing with stallax. the result is
most delightful. The hair will be left clean,
soft, bright and wavy, the olive oil having
properly balanced the action of this wonderful
hair cleanser.
Is Powder Necessary?
A great many women object to using pow-
der. for various reasons. The following
formula is a good one: Dissolve an ounce of
MISS GLADYS COOPKR.
Photo Wrather <fe Bvy.
cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of water, or
witch-hazel, and use it as a face lotion,
smoothing the skin with the fingers until it
is dry. This method is perfectly harmless.
I am told that a really beautiful, natural, vel-
vety bloom results and remains for many hours
quite unaffected by the most trying conditions
out of doors or in the ballroom or theatre,
and that it gives a much more natural appear-
ance to some SKins than does ordinary powder.
Grey Hair.
I have observed many attempts of man>
people to conceal grey hair. Some of these
experiments were amusing, some disastrous,
and some were success-
ful. Personally I believe
I shall let my hair turn
when the appointed time
comes, but if I were
going to try to evade it,
I would give a trial to a
real old “grandmother”
formula that would prob-
ably do the work. This
formula. 1 am informed,
lias been used with de-
grees of success for many
generations, and consists
merely of two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite
mixed with three ounces
of bay rum. It is ap-
plied to the grey hair
a few times with a small
sponge, and ladies tell
me it appears to darken
tlie hair to a natural
shade, not like a dye. but
gradually and naturally.
-Miscellaneous Hints.
A few useful hints from
my friends on aids to
beauty, are as follows:
Theeyebrowsand lashes
may be made to grow
stronger and darker by
applying mennaline. a
specially delicate pomade, with the finger-tips
at night.
Rouge is often obvious, and many women
therefore prefer to use powdered colliandum,
whicli gives a most natural tint.
The lips may be prevented from drying and
chapping by touching them with ‘ a stick
of prolactum, which also gives them a good
color.
Freckles are most effectively combated with
ammoniated mercury creams, of which jetta-
line is the best.
Xote.—This interesting article on beauty
culture in general was written by Miss Gladys
Cooper at the request of the manufacturers of
I ilenta Soap rlie best complexion soap in the
world. On sale by all chemists. [4
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
§
§
§
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
Und
erwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
Oerman-made goods.
New ••Olympic" Brand.
J,n e . prices of 'he yarns from which
' S v o e l i r°‘f° OdS are ., made - the manufacturers
nave introduced temporari y lower lines containing
of Pe a ua e mv g a, of t h COt,on^ be 4 in S the s»mVg°u“el
suDDltf von as c“j e regul ? r hnes - Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers :
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
ror -iydraulic and Electric Eift Mftint
other parts—for Hydraulic Material , RePai ,T’ Renewals of Lifting Ropes and
generally. Best workmanship and innforio’i ®~ ves * T «bing and High-pressure Stocks
m ' "lai. Quotations supplied.
Martin Place, Sydney.
A. MAINE HERON, Manager.
“Middle Blue”: When you have seen
Marie Tempest about 10 times you begin to
sum up her art. Everything is so studied
that you can see her practising the unfolding
of her hanky or spreading herself gracefully
over a chair about 500 times before she goes
into action. Marie is as perfect as a French
villanelle or a Louis gavotte. Here is a
real star at last, so splendidly polished that
the brilliance hides everything but the
artifice.
“Deadhead”: I see Cyril Maude has been
waxing enthusiastic about the “good be-
haviour” of Australian galleryites. No
wonder! In London there’s an institution
called the Gallery First-Nighter’s Club, which
exists to hand out democratic criticism from
aloft, and it is the terror of most producers.
When it decides to “give the bird” to an
actor or a play it’s a case of “Goodnight,
sweet Prince!” A few years ago it com-
pletely routed one of Barrie’s playlets, and
made him rewrite it completely. Apart from
organised criticism of actors and plays it
persists in a trench warfare against mildewed
English customs like that of charging for
programmes, but is only moderately success-
ful. Trenches need high explosives.
“Fax” : The fact that the late Beerbohm
Tree was German on the paternal side is
duly set forth in his obituary notices, but I
see no mention of his Hebraic origin. His
father, who settled in Ixmdon, was a Ger-
man married to an Englishwoman, and son
Herbert had a distinct touch of Abraham in
the turn of his tongue. Therefore his Sven-
gali was his most effective impersonation in
melodrama, and his Shylock was the most
interesting of his Shakspearean characters.
In his reference to his dead Rachel, and his
distress over the elopement of his daughter
with a Christian who would help her squan-
der the ducats, his Shylock w r as most patheti-
cally Hebraic. Years ago there was much
scornful reference to Beerbohm’s audacity in
assuming the famous theatrical name of
Tree for stage purposes, and long after he
had made his mark as a manager and pro-
ducer his pretensions to greatness as a
tragedian were mildly ridiculed. But he
leaves the honored memory of a man who
always did things thoroughly. At his fine
theatre (Her Majesty’s) one got a big show
and a good seat for the money, and a pro-
gramme which was free from advertisements,
at half the price charged for a poor sort of
programme at other places.
There has been nothing in Workman’s
work in Australia to suggest that he will
make a distinctively good Ko-Ivo for the
revival of “Mikado,” but he is expected to
score in the part all the same. He has
played in all the G. and S. operas under the
eye of the punctilious Gilbert himself, so he
should at least be un-exaggerated in his
treatment of the Gilbertian humor. The last
co. that played “Mikado” in Melbourne went
in freely for clowning, and claimed to be
acting under the latest instructions—whose
latest instructions they didn’t mention.
From an Australian showman in Java :
Picture business in the Dutch Indies is run on
lines quite different from ours. In Java there are
two classes of movie shows, one mostly for Euro-
peans, the other only for “inlanders.” In the best
theatres the prices run from two guilders (3s. 4d.)
down to 20 cents (4d.) for natives. The native
shows run at 10 and 15 cents (2d. and 3d.). It
sounds little; but as the population of the island is
over 30 millions there are a few 10 cents to be
collected. The Javanese has the movie craze badly, and
will pawn his sarong to squat inside. Generally
speaking, the standard of the subjects is low. The
natives revel in the “Blood-stained Bamboo.” or any
frightful melodrama. Chaplin is a good draw, but
nothing like he is in Australia. Here a little Charlie
goes a long way. American makers are easily ahead.
Outside the entrance to the bio show the natives
and gaze in rapture at the marvellous dis-
play s of Y ankee lithographs. All the operators are
colored—either Chinese or Javanese. Most of the
screens are sheets slung on battens, and the manage-
ment doesn’t worry if there are a few puckers in
them. In an open-air show for natives I saw a
screen that was so discolored with exposure that it
was as ruddy as the sail of a fishing smack. Chinese
sell the tickets, and in all the cities the municipal
councils place a 20 p.c. tax on every guilder (Is. Bd.)
seat. As to condition of film, I haven’t seen a first-
release subject yet.
“S.S.": The actors congregated in a
Bourke-street bar were boasting of their
long and honorable records. Said Blank:
“Me dear boys, I flatter myself I have been
longer on the boards than anv man in the
profession here. In point of >act, I began
as the orphan cheeild in ‘Pettigrew the
Busker’ when I was two vears old.” “Tut
tut!” Dash retorted. “Why. Hyphen here
was born with an astrakhan collar!”
THE FORTUNATE AFFLICTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The picture business has proved a godsend to
thousands of afflicted people. Very ugly, battered,
sick-looking, grossly-fat or absurdly lean men and
women are in constant demand, and the film-makers
wa d the real thing.”— Picture-theatre programme.
Are you extremely plain of face
And scandalous of girth?
Have you the glum gorilla’s grace?
Will your, say, equatorial space
Provoke the vulgar mirth?
Heed never more the neighbors’ strictures—
You’re badly wanted on the pictures!
Have you a horrid pair of legs,
Extremely long and thin,
Or wonderfully bandy pegs,
And are your eyes like ostrich eggs?
Prepare then to begin.
For you there’s an incessant clamor—
Go grace the Yankee picture “drammer”!
Are you a sad, consumptive “peach,”
With cheeks so very hollow
They’ll hold a cup of water each?
Don’t linger here, my brother, reach
For fame and quids that follow.
Your instant presence is invited
Way over in the States United.
Perhaps you’ve got an ugly mug
That scares the little ones?
You’re wanted straight to play the Thug,
The burglar, or the schlanter pug.
Go join the other guns
Who are with natural gifts contracting
Big fortunes movie-picture acting!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


w
V-^5
It
"1
w
m
m
r-
Li
L3*?
•up-Tpur
mic
maw
OLANT well in that which in the after years will be
* their “Garden of Memories." Do not let this “Garden’'
be just an echo—let it live.
A subtle snatch of song brings back to
vision the days where a mother moved
and sang. And now, through the ringing
grooves of time is wrought a change —
a marvel Into the lives of vour children
the Beale Kalophone brings the great
works of the great masters with life-like
familiarity —daily figures of contact to
be enjoyed and loved. Can you deny
your little ones such unlimited pleasure
—such opportunities for building-up
music-love in their natures^
Call at our showrooms and hear how
the Beale Kalophone re-creates the
efforts of your favorite artist. Prices
from £3 3 0.
¥\
Head Office and Factory :
41 47 TRAFALGAR STREET
ANNANDALE.
Beale
C 9 LTP^/
Show rooms :
333 George Street, SYD\t.Y
Branches at —
BATHURST. ORANGE. LISMORE. NEWCASTLE. GOULBURN. WAGGA. VICTORIA
MAPLES, in all Melbourne Suburbs. TASMANIA • WILLIAMS BROS.. Hobart.
MAPLES. Launceston. S. AUSTRALIA: JOHN EVANS. LTD., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND : 90-92 Queen Street, BRISBANE. Kent Street,
MARYBOROUGH Flinders Street, TOWNSVILLE.
ROCKHAMPTON. Sydney Street. MACKAY
CAIRNS.
TTX
/
0


v>
V
% •'« <
V
NEURALGIA
QUICKLY RELIEVED.
Dear Sirs,
“! was suffering' from acute neuralgia down
the veins of the neck and over the whole
face. My mouth was much swollen. After
commencing to tdke Fishers Phosphenne 1
had immediate rmief, l and in one day was
cured. There/ only remained a slight
weakness from f<he j excessive pain 1 had
endured. Yours faithfully, John Shepherd. ,
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GRE4T NERVE TONIC
has been the principal Aus-
tralian remedy for over forty
years for a\l cases of Neu-
ralgia, Muscular-rheumatism
Backache, Malaria, Nervous-
ness, Indigestion, Headache
and Brain-fag.
IT PROMOTES AND BTRENCTH
AH Chemists and Stores. i
1/- per Bottle.-Four times the quantity 2/6,
2/S
jmthle and
337 OEOROE STIR El
riREET, SYDNEY. N.B.W/.IM.P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing' Instru-
ment the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone " ia i ,y times as efficient
J “nd powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustment instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearihg on every occasion
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free , or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,'
Bernard s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY. ’
Meara Ear Phone Co Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
A Perfect
Custard.
(The NAVY BRAND.)
%
m
a
POWDER
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO..
Pure Food Specialists, SYDNEY.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.,
BRISBANE,
Sole Queensland Agents.
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now ; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIC AN
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite —~—
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
The BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
The two most popular of oiir many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Digskitt Seat, the “OS” short panel With
leather points, long flaps and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted With
Stirrups, Cirth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16 6 each, of £6/10/* without
Surcingle. 3 6 Less if Stirrups not required.
SHORTAGE OF STIRK l 'PS.— Customers
will help if they will use their old stirrups
until matters improve.
FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH TO ANY
PORT OR RAILWAY STATION in N. S.
Wales. For 3.6 extra for easing we will send
freight free to any direct port in Queensland,
Victoria, South Australia or N.Z.
RINa HEAD ORIOLE 12/6, Post 1/-
SADDLECLOTH 6/6, Post 1/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS,
383 Ceorge Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such dreams of boots, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostoek style here illus
trated.
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it i-
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who hate
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range oi
styles to select from, all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bostoek No.
«©
•0
«®l
Q.
•0
None genuine unless
stamped “Bostick.”
Sop that thr name “Bostock”
is ' stamped on the soles.
8-28
THEY SCREW IN
to the outer case. They therefore are
impervious to dust, to perspiration to
damp. Pre-eminently suitable for’the
heat of campaigning and of Egypt
WHAT OF THEIR GOING RELIA-
BILITY?
they are absolutely dependable,
lhey are high-grade, J-plate lever
movements, with 15 jewels, a brequet
hair-spring and a compensated bal-
ance. They have also high-grade
luminous dials and hands, which make
the time visible on the darkest night
They have been specially made for
us for the use of our brave men
Fro . n . t - Th ey are fitted
into the best-quality pigskin regula-
tion Wristlets, and cost 60/-. Our
stock of Soldiers’ Watches is enor-
mous, and ranges from those at 25/-
up to £lO/10/- in gold. A special
discount is given when for public
presentation. 1
o
m
.
CIO
'mnVi’Vi
Lumens'' f'f/ / ewelled Lever Movement, with
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
PAI> u/ n . B
A DEPOBIT OF For War Purposes only.
Will purchase a Certificate for
£8 15 O
£43 15
£B7 lO
£875 O
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date f* <wiwwv
(rom the W«”h Svyl'free from'comm b " ng l ?? J ' abU to *»*rer, are exempt
interest free of B *“P
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War bv
Saving Certificates. Everv
helps to brine victory closer
participating in the War
Certificate purchased
S*ve and benefit andMoneTorder P«t Offices’ State Sarißgs Banks
save and benefit yourself. Buy Certific *
Commonwealth Bank of Australia te ® and benefit your country
Vtth March, 1917
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A. 8.8.: But The Bulletin didn’t sug-
gest a war levy—that is, a levy on capital. It said
d»d repeats that if ±20,000,000 more of property
can be realised or borrowed on to put into war loans,
as Hughes thinks, it can also be realised or borrowed
on to pay taxes. To carry on the war exclusively
on borrowed money siipply encourages people to con-
tinue living in the present fool’s paradise. We must
borrow part, of the cost; but if we borrowed less
and paid cash for more, out of taxes, we should prick
the present bubble of spurious prosperity and get
down to the terribly serious- facts of the situation. So,
all said and done, we seem to be hi perfect agreement.
. ...A.D.8.: An idea, but not brightly handled.
.. . .H.H. : We have no use for it. . . .11. W.: Not up.
.. . . M. 8.: You needn’t apologise to “Den.” Nobody
could find the resemblance.... R.G.: Fair verse
wrapped round slender thought H.H.T.: “Dark
Clouds” no good; “Union” too preachy.... Aonian:
Meaning has to be dragged out of the stiff, hard-scan-
ning lines.... R. 0.; “Killed in Action” amounts to
nothing as verse L^.: All right; don’t talk
A.D.: Not up A.8.C.: “Bet” not ours M.M.N.:
100 many lines in it have no purpose. .. .J.C.P.:
Not quite verse; not altogether prose. ...S.E.: Not
our style... .Timi: Verse too rough.... Patriot;
It sounds like the ballad of “Chevy Chase” done to
a barrel-organ accompaniment First Aid: Kath-
leen went to learn to skate and fell down. What’s
there to chortle over in that? J.L.8.: No; get
another theme G.H.S.: Old stuff 8.C.: The
soldier returns.... The Screamer: Seems pretty rot-
ten ; andit is writ ten in a foreign language. It
would be no use even if it wasn’t A.G.C.K.:
Sorry, not up C. J.W.: No use C.L.: Too mam-
lines bump out of tune L.A.: The Goat might
have made a yarn if you had made the talk con-
vincing E.M.D.: No skill or thought H. 8.:
Wants a firmer touch.... Sam Pan: Very lumpy
H. 8.: Wretchedly told. .. . A.G.J.: No Cestus :
Pray foi a .sense of humor 1.M.L.: It’s too easy.
A.L.G.: Doesn’t touch us J.S.: Mild school
humor. If it sizzles at all it must sizzle somewhere
else.... .K.A.: “Guy” is a trifle too mechanical....
Nemo: It s all limp and wobble except where it’s
bump and dither. .. .0.G.: Limping stuff trying to
carry commonplace thought E.D.8.: “Corporal
Bill” is poor and irritating.... E. 8.: Not quite....
Spare Time: Not up; but that's a charming fancy
about the clouds :
The low-flung clouds are drifting through the rain
Like bugs among the hillside's ruffled hair.
. ...M.8.: This ought to move them:'
Go! you men of Australia, go!
For far across the sea
Tour brave comrades are calling-
And waiting each day for thee.
There amidst the shot and shell
They fight for you and me so well,
And you must go and help them too,
Then we'll all be proud of you.
Yes! proud of them, I well might say,
But not of you who stay away,
Ton shirkers, who think of pleasure and fun,
While they their duty noblv liath done.
S.W.P.: Not enough in them H.J.B. : Bv no
means hopeless; but you have some distance to go.
.... J.E.R.: Verse of the wobble and bump order
that chases a badly-fitting rhyme over all obstacles
to its final bang.... A.S.: “Forest Folk” very nearly
gets there N.A.E.: Pleasing verse, without much
point. But why describe the infant as a “Hell
Child” ? J.S.: But it doesn’t “beat”; it wallows.
. .. . A.A.S.. Don t like it. . . .L.G.: Too weak and
thin Quince: If you can find mirth in things like
that you must enjoy life Xerxes: Mild, artificial
splodge. ... J.M .S.: Not up. .. .S.L.: Nice atmosphere
about the domestic hearth :
The husband entered—
“ Where’s my tea?”'
“Oh you wretched man
It’s sad me!”
Then the husband swore and
Cursed a bit;
And the wife howled and
Threw a fit.
“You horrid wretch! Oh
Why did I
Marry such a man ?
Oh, I’ll die!”
... .Wonnemarra: You couldn’t get a second-hand
gun from Ireland, though you “know for a fact that
at least twelve machine-guns have been landed in our
distriet [Croydon, N.Q.] during the last three
months. Geese must be very plentiful up there.
E..J.M.: Like to see all correspondence before risking
it L.P.L.: “Insomnia” not up. The man who
enjoys it can never write it Dunedinite: (1)
You’ve misunderstood. Jt wasn’t the notices of the
press critics who did the show that he was referring ’
to, but tin* boom the picture got from outside ; (2)
you’re lucky if you get the paper through that way
now-—the trick has been dropped to; (3) sending
quote. ... K.S.W.: That bishop was probable right.
Certainly the ex-parson’s yarns in Sydney were wild
sensation-mongering.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.H.: Won’t do. ... J.P.F.: Faint idea-poor draw-
ing L.Y.: Beginner’s stuff R.C.: Too young to
use P.M.: Nothing original there J.E.F.:
Hard, bleak products E.K.S.: You’ll have to im-
prove in drawing S.E.: Ditto G.E.: The lady’s
bent arm looks like a shirtfront. Or is it a shirt-
front looking like a lady’s bare arm?....
S.W.C.Y.: Jones drunk doesn’t amuse... .Kimberly
R.: Your ’roo-hunter resembles a tailor’s advt . .
Ivan M. L.: A very mature jest S.E.: The Metho-
dist Synod would object... .L.11.L.: Briefbag’s mis-
fortune is old and his two friends are badly drawn.
. ...Raffo: No money coming to you for that....
1 red J.: Nothing in it.... J.H.F.: It’s a good scare-
crow, anyhow G.H.R.: Very sad humorous draw-
ing.
“The Snake”: was advising his
moke to get to it up Church Hill, Sydney—
or Sydeney, as Johnno would say—when he
dropped his thong. Miss Highstepper, pick-
ing her path over the cobbled crossway,
spotted the whip lying in the mud, and she
also observed that Johnno was having speech
with his locomotive. Like the good sport
that the Australian girl is, Miss ran to
Johpno’s vagrant property and handed it up
to him. _ And Johnno! Well, his hard dial
went brick-red under the tan. and his vote
of thanks with his hat would have put all
Castille at the bottom of the class.


o
Every product of the Goodyear
I yre and Rubber Company,
whether Tyres, Belting or
Mechanical Goods, before being
offered for sale has to undero'o
the acid test of actual usage.
Laboratory tests, though ex-
haustive and convincing, are not
considered final in determining
whether anything manufactured
bv Goodyear is of high enough
quality to carry and protect our
good name.
Neolin, the new synthetic substance “better than
leather,” was no exception. Before it was offered as
an improvement on—not a substitute for—sole
leather, Neolin had to undergo most searching
trials under all sorts of adverse conditions.
Here we give photographic reproductions of four
different pairs of soles, one of leather, the other of
Neolin, illustrating most graphically and convin-
cingly the almost unbelievable superiority of Neolin
over the best of sole leather, as proved by the results
attained in the following specially-checked test cases.
One of the 33-day shoes tested in a factory where
constant movement on concrete floors, often in water,
constituted a gruelling test of durability, was soled
with No. 2 Union leather, original gauge 7-32 in.; the
right shoe was soled with Neolin, original gauge
3-16 in. This pair of shoes was worn continuously
for 33 days, when the leather sole was worn through.
The Neolin sole at the thinnest spot gauged 5-32 in.
Thus the Neolin sole gave nearly six times the wear
of leather, even under the strenuous conditions
which these shoes had to meet—concrete floors, grit
and cinders, crude brick walks, wet and dry.
The actual results of the leather-soled test boot,
which wore through in 47 days, while its Neolin-
soled companion showed practically no visible signs
of wear, make interesting reading. The right shoe
was soled with No. 2 Hemlock leather, thickness
11-64 in.; the left shoe was soled with Neolin original
gauge. 3-16 in. This nair of shoes was worn continu-
ously for 47 days, until the leather sole wore through.
The Neolin sole at the thinnest spot gauged 9-64 in.
At this rate the Neolin sole was wearing nearly four
times as long as the leather sole.
For the pair of shoes which the leather sole lasted
83 days, a somewhat different test was made, under
the more normal conditions of shop and street wear.
This pair of shoes was made with one sole of Union
sole leather and one sole of Neolin. After 83 days
of wear in street and shop the leather sole wore
through. The Neolin sole had considerable service
left in it, and measurements, accurately taken, show
that the Neolin sole would have w r orn three times
«is long if used in a continuation of the same service,
l'he heels on these shoes are the second pair.
In another test we took a pair of boots, into one
ot which was built a Neolin sole; into the other was
built a good average leather sole. It was a sole as
good as most Australians can afford to-day. It was
as good as many leather soles which are put into
boots costing £1 per pair. In slightly under 8 weeks
the leather sole was worn through—just as you see
it. In the same time and under same wear the Neolin
sole appeared precisely as is photographed here. In
its thinnest part it measured 9-B4 of an inch, worn
1-.) through. In other words, it showed a wear
capacity four times greater than leather.
Neolin Soles are modern
synthetic soles which have been
widely imitated but never par-
alleled. Neolin is not a substi-
tute for leather. It is leather’s
superior. Neither is Neolin
rubber —though it is as water-
proof and as flexible. Neolin
Soles are “ready broken in.”
1 hey are likewise gripsure.
I hey will not creak or crack.
I hey won’t scratch floors or
furniture.
Compare for yourself the
wearing- qualities of Neolin
Soles as against leather soles.
Insist upon Neolin on your new boots
or shoes even if your dealer hasn’t it in
stock. Remember, he can get it.
To be sure of the g&n/wi/ne Neolin —
mark that mark, sta/nvp tt on your
memory. Ask for Neolin, with the
acxent on the “c
fleolin
—the trade symbol pro-
GOODYEAR
Every genuine Neolin Sole and Half SJe
is clearly embossed with the word
fleohn
Better than Leather
mmmm
V ’ -r;
ygri-
m
s#§ AsS§
i
& "'
• j; ■
:-Ayy :r
SSP'
Kh£9
■■ V,;>
-
:-&y
m ■
•, : >yj
■■
•• ■
P.. :.••
Hil
'
■'.
Vryi?
•n
•t
Better then Leether
a
■■
‘ •:
••V
<; -
efapw fj§
&
•w
-•-:
£


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads -and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding . sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIKNT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—Citv 4246,
4247,
4810.
4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
lilil SHANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
B LINDA BERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON
LPt. •jMma'Wharf.)
Jf A CR A Y
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, July 21.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, July 25.
Leaves Sydney, July 28.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, August 1.
Leaves Sydney, August 4.
MELBOURNE
'(Transhipping fo*
Si A. and W. A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, July 28.
* Passengers only. '
Fhll Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
liaiiLtng, Public Companies, &c.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Ivt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Line 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; IV. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W, V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - lIRISHANE
Branches—London. Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Qo.
of Sydney, [limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1.900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900.000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohex, Esq. . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. E. Knox, F.sq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY,
London Office: 18 Birebin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of [|eui /ealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
ull Australia. .Ntu /.«.
land. Fiji, Samoa, preat
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest
hxed periodi itiu
s all other usual Banking business.
A
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT L
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL RE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Ho’day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.’’
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers-
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD aJ 9 Bridge Street,
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES,
Directors:
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10,589.960
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MucKellar, Ii.C.M.U.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.U., M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Bycroy. London Office—29 Threadneedlo St., E.C.
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
.T. RESELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
Bank o 'Australia
SYDNEY.
I
HEAD OFFICE
f2?a"ii
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (SalisOury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchangee Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Department
1/.
Minimum
Deposit
2600
At a.ll Branches,
and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
•HMES KKLI.. nepiiT Oowuor. June, 1916 DENISON* MILLER. Gover
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
■Reserve Fund £95,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman :
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TO DAI AN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, AI.L.C.
General Manayer : C. Al. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector jor
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. Gd. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
<y
>
FOR
QUICK RESULTS'
USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
No other moustache preparation
produces such excellent results as
CAPILLAR] NK. Its efficacy is
being daily experienced by hun-
dreds of users. Try a jar to-dav.
PRICE 10/0 JAR, POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AIfKEM, 654 SY c „ e °^ e st -
Established over SO Years.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
O AIR NS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
liTPATt A. Saturday, July 21.
I’AIIIXGA, Saturday, July 28.
MO 111 ALTA, Saturday, Aug. 4.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Fort of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can l )e
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUII-L, & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMER1C A—C A N A D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282,
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO.,' Brisbane; MclLWUAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
Id. JONES <fc CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regie
lurlv to:—
l WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BKISIIANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 8s. 6d. : second-class rail ami steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.5.S. “ INDARRA ”
T.S.5. “ LEVUKA"
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA
S.5. “ WYANDRA”
... 10,()CO tons
... 6500 tons
... 6500 tons
... 4500 tons
All Fitted witli Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip ami also
the enjoyment of beauuml scenery should travel bv
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
I all up-to date arrangements for convenience ami com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing se*
1 Dailv Papers.
BURNS. PH1LP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes ei
Buildings, Stocks. Furni-
tu re. &c. Rents also assured-
on- Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
MARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Tendon
should read the British AUSTBAL-
asian. (>d. weekly—an illustrated P*jP er
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in
and at home. Australians are cordially
vited to visit the British Australasia'
Beading Boom at the Offices. 115 High W® 1 '
born. London, W.C., where they can see toe
hcime papers, meet their friends, use 1
to.onhnne. and obtain ‘ information witho
charge.


KodaK picture maKing
adds interest to all you
Take a To dak wherever you yo —it wiT
m ultiply all your pleasures.
I he things that tempt you to linger on your
holiday and week-end rambles, are the things
that make fine Kodak pictures; the humor-
ous, interesting or unusual events connected
with your pastimes and hobbies; the children
running about the home ; your friends; your
pets; the new beauties unfolded by your
garden with the changing seasons —these all
call for K 0( lak snapshots.
You should have a Kodak; you can learn to use one in half
an hour—and they are priced from 30/= to £l5/2/=
The No. 3a Folding- Autographic Kodak is ideal for
views, groups and portraits. Takes splendid postcard
pictures—s-| x 3 4- inches. Price £5 10 =
Ask for YOUR copy of a Kodak booklet.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
25°-252 Q u een St., Brisbane. Walton’s Buildings, Wickham (St. (next Melba Theatre), Valiev.
37 Riindlp St.. Adplnidp RllvaKatii ci u..i...■> n m . . *
Townsville. Benliani
T , , , **•»■ R «‘kham|>ton. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. Dixon St., also corner
k amb i 0n ?r Uas and " i,,is st > Wellington, N.Z. 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St.,
Dunedin, N.Z.
Is Your Corset Comfortable?
In corsets, smartly-gowned women have come to understand that genuine smartness means the
correct fashionable silhouette maintained with bodily ease and health.
It is no longer necessary to sacrifice health and comfort for smartness. Thousands of Gossard
wearers have found this to be true after wearing their first Gossard.
••
A Gossard is comfortable because it fits perfectly. A Gossard fits perfectly because there are many
models specially designed for every figure type. Because of its perfect fit, the gown correctly fits
it with that elasticity and grace which reflects genuine smartness.
Ideal Large Above and Large Below
Waistline Figures
m
find perfect comfort and individuality of
style in the front-lacing Gossards, especially
designed for these two figure types. They
confine flesh under shoulders, have ample
fulness at front and top, and allow the bust
to rest in the corset—not over it. For large-
below-waist figures there are special models
with longer skirts and stout elastic sections
which greatly reduce the hips, giving grati-
fying results.
An expert corsetiere, who understands your
figure requirements, will deem it a pleasure
to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
Jhe ff. IT. ft ossard fqjnc
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women
of AUSTRALIA by
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd., Melbourne.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat.
Parmer & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
James Marshall & Co., Adelaide.
W. T. Waters Co., Ltd., Sydney.
In NEW ZEALAND by
J. Ballantyne & Co., Christchurch. J. Ballantyne & Co., Timaru.
The Drapery and General Importing*Co., of New Zealand, Christchurch.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Lyttelton.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Wellington.
George & lversley, Ltd., N.Z., “The Economic,” Wanganui.
Herbert Hayes & Co., Ltd., Dunedin.
Ideal Large
Below Waistline
Figure.
W. Lewis & Co., Invercargill.
Milne & Choyce, ,Ltd., Auckland.
Ideal Large
Above Waistline
Figure
e ait'
s'i
-v :
J'Y'V


RESIDE and DINE at
The
Australia
Hotel,
SYDNEY
Suites
de luxe.
Rooms with
Bath & Balcony.
European or
American Plan.
Private
Safe Deposit.
Spacious
Winter Carden.
Cuisine
par excellence.
Grill Rooms
a la carte.
Afternoon Teas
and Suppers.
Recherche
Dinners.
Wedding's
Catered for.
: TME MAN^ET
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3.
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
Mr. It. J. O’Brien, of Bombala, says : —“The ‘Chandler’ purchased from
you some months 'ago has covered 40,000 MILES. During the time SHE
HAS NOT STUCK ME UP FOR FIVE MINUTES on the road, NOR yet
HAS SHE BEEN OVERHAULED. I have taken as many as 14 on a
load. ACROSS ALL SORTS OF ROADS and UNDER THE WORST
WEATHER CONDITIONS, very often through a foot of snow. 1 am now
on my fourth set of tyres and I can truly say I AM DELIGHTED AND
SATISFIED IN EVERY WAY.”
The same buyer has signed for a second car.
Mr. Robert Hart, Taxi 332, reports having taken a party to a Funeral
last week to the Waverley Cemetery. The distance was negotiated ON TOP
GEAR, and the PACE was not more than 3 to 4 MILES AN HOUR 1
Another “Chandler” user says:—“One of the many good features of the
car is that I can take it to a Funeral or attend a Race Meeting. The
FLEXIBILITY of the ENGINE is MARVELLOUS.”
To demonstrate the growing popularity of the “Chandler Car.” there
are at the present time no fewer than 3 on the best rank in the city, viz.,
Martin Place.
THE CHANDLER SIX, £,490.
People ring up and INSIST on the
“CHANDLER” being sent.
ii Mi
w
'■i
IsK&sSl
7"//E CHANDLER six.
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Ltd.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR N.S.W.
Oarage and
Showrooms:
162 Castlereagh St., Sydney-
The Little Wind of Little Laughs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little wind of little laughs you cannot
keep it out.
To grim law-courts it makes its way, and
twirls the briefs about;
And over those black lustre gowrns where
greedy pockets gape
It tells of miles of clear blue sky and misty
coign and cape,
Of joys that money cannot buy, of Nature’s
friendly looks,
Of springy mosses, gold and green, and
sandy wind-found nooks;
And to the prisoner at the bar there comes
with added pain
The thought of long grey sunless hours ere
he be free again.
It creeps to the attorney’s ear ; it sets his
mind astray;
It tweaks the Judge, bewigged, austere, until
his memories play
About a w-hite sail on that sea, a leaping
fish, and so
A lighter sentence is breathed out to that
poor fool below.
The little wind of little laughs has left the
law-courts now-.
It climbs into a city shop and fans a shop-
girl’s brow ;
The ribbons in her listless hands become like
strips of sky,
And through the lanes of cotton-reels the
fairies’ feet go by.
To hospitals it gallops on. if takes the w-ards
by storm,
And smothers with a whiff of rose the sour
iodoform;
And in the operating-room through ether
waves it strives
To bouquet violets for the “case” beneath the
surgeons’ knives.
I shut and locked my office door. A keyhole
w-ould suffice —-
The little w-ind of little laughs was through it
in a trice.
My prim typewriter was its goal —to beat
upon the keys
A barcarolle of dragonflies, a cradle-song of
trees !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
IN BANANA LAND
“Ashton”: Some of the Daw-son country
is so densely covered with pear that stock-
men mustering cattle have canvas breast-
plate for horse and canvas overalls for
riders. One intrepid horseman I saw w'ore
cricket leggings to ward off the spines. At
Bullamon shed Some years ago I saw
shearers encased in leather while shearing
“pear sheep.” During spell-o it w-as com-
mon to see naked shearers lying on the
board whilst mates extracted prickles,
mostly by pouring almost boiling w-ater over
the affected parts, w-hich toughened the
prickles and enabled them to be dragged out.
Randolph Bedford, from the North :
There are inexhaustible stocks of fish around Aus-
tralia. and this Queensland coast, with its thousands
of square miles of fish fields within the Barrier Reef,
is the most prolific of all the grounds. Yet fish is
usually' nearer the price of ice in Tophet than of a
seafood as common as seaw'eed; and often when it
does come to table it has been so mishandled as to
lose half its food value. But if we only learn to
take the harvest often enough we will soon learn to
cook it without spoiling. Meantime Australia has
imported in eight months fish to the value of some-
thing near £900,000. Those figures are an indict-
ment of Australian energy- and Australian methods,
and Queensland is inquiring how as a State it can
discontinue its share of the iniquity. With one
Minister of Justice, one Treasurer, one alderman,
one fisheries expert, one doctor and three sundry-
legislators I went drifting for two days off Caloun-
dra Head, and to sea within 15 miles or so of
Moosa. To a sunset sky of amethyst and dusky
IT’S ALWAYS BETTER ON AHEAD.
"Thank Heaven! Only one more day's sport before I go back to the dear old office .”
rose the fishing started, and went on till late in the
night, although I left it early. The crew- did more
successful fishing than the passengers, but the four
hundredweight caught in the day and a half
at sea was good enough prospecting. All next day the
decks were speckled with the windblown fish-scales
from the gutting table and brilliant with the pig-
mentation of epaulet fish and parrot fish and em-
peror perch, snapper and mulwong, the big-mouthed
red rock-cod, his bulbous eyes full of horror of his
plight, changing color gloriously as he died. Our
little line-catch of the single fish was enough to
show what trawling might do. Meantime, w-asting
at the spigot and saving at the bunghole, we leave
the sealife of Australia to die of old age and pay'
the foreigner for seafood a round million and a
half a year.
“M.F.”: Major William Redmond, M.P.,
who was killed at Wytschaete, was the
“Wexford Rebel.” Four times he was in
gaol for releasing sentiments calculated to
inflame the passions of his countrymen
against the English. It was while touring
Australia in ’B3 with his brother John (now-
leader of the Irish National Party) that he
was first elected for his native county, Wex-
ford. Coming fresh from imprisonment in
Kilmainham, he was barred by many publi-
cans and locked out of halls. Parkes w-as
even induced to bring forw'ard a motion iri
N.S.W. Assembly to have the envoys d<i-
ported. But a turning-point was reached
when they visited Bananaland. E nable to
find a hall in Brisbane, the refugees ad-
journed to Goodna, where a party of wild
and willing Irishmen constructed a shed
capable of liolding a thousand people. H eie
a monster meeting was held, “God Save Ire-
land” was let go with irrepressible enthusi-
asm. and the collection swelled the fighting
fund enormously.
“Half Moon”: Crossed over from Thirsty
Island to Cape York recently' and landed at
a tree marked “J.M. 7/10/Tl. The owner
of the initials lives close by—has beentheie
for nearly six years. He has cleared 100
acres of scrub, planted 5000 cocoanut trees
(now well advanced) and budded himself a
comfortable bungalow. In between times he
has managed to do some bacteriological
research. 1 had dinner with him. Menu:
Roast turkey, fish, paw-paw sauce, potatoes,
pumpkin, several kinds of cultivated fruit
and a few other items. The few tins of
potted perplexities on the shelf were kept
for fellows like “Babarantiko” who scorn-
fully reject “insipid tropical slush.”
“0.5. H.”: Ipswich Chamber of Com-
merce recently wrote to the deputy P.M.G.
in Brisbane complaining about something or
other. After waiting 10 day's for an answer
to come 24 miles they got impatient and
rang up to ask the why and wherefore. To
their astonishment they were told that
F.M.G. Webster had given orders that all
replies to letters from public bodies had to
be sent through the member for the district.
As the district member was away in Mel-
bourne, the reply had to wander down there
and back, about 2600 miles, before it got
to a place 24 miles from Brisbane. Is this
part of Webster’s efficiency and economy
campaign ?
The most popular cry in Queensland just
now is “Down with the Saints!” St. George,
St. David, St. Andrew and St. Patrick all
have their own appointed holiday's. A recent
deputation from employers interviewed
Treasurer Theodore and asked him to wipe
out the Saint Day insanity, adding that they
had the warmest sympathy of the Labor
organisations in the matter.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 14. 1917.
My Dear Tiiargomindah, —
On Friday and Saturday this little city
was en fete for the benefit of France. The
Wattle Day organisation had a lien on
Friday, but' agreed to waive it and make a
special collection for maimed soldiers later
in the year. Its appeal on behalf of French
sufferers brought in about £lOOO.
A procession, military sports in the
Domain, and at night a concert in the Ex-
hibition were the main attractions on Satur-
day. The tricolor was everywhere, and
scarcely less prominent were the stars and
stripes. About two-thirds of the population
were armed with collecting-boxes, and the
unhappy minority were so hunted and
harried" that a debtor’s prison would have
been a welcome refuge.
On Wednesday morning at Enoggera the
Governor presented medals to five men for
gallantry on active service. The Premier
was amongst those who glowed with the lads.
Judge Murray, of Papua, will be here next
week. He will be the guest of the Holmes
a'Courts.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan has been hurriedly called
to Rockhampton in consequence of the seri-
ous illness of her mother.
Lady Goold-Adams guided the Women’s
Mutual Service Club through its annual
meeting on Thursday afternoon and
applauded the report of the year's work.
There are 420 members and a credit bal-
ance at the bank.
Last Monday night a meeting of women,
called to urge the Federal Government to
introduce military compulsion, was “sooled”
by members of the Women’s Peace Army.
My dear, I thought there would be a free
fight, but I wasn’t prepared for the clawing,
scratching, hair-pulling, screaming and
abuse that ensued! I don’t know what
need there is to go short of fighters to fill
the gaps in France when there is talent like
this handy.
Mrs. W. Hartshorn, of Mosman, Sydney,
who is evading the rigors of the southern
winter, tea-ed a party at the Coo-ee Cafe on
Thursday. Another hostess this week was
Miss Vera Remde, who has been pouring out
gallons of our weakness in her studio in
honor of the “Turn to the Right” Co.
The City Ladies’ Rifle Club has sent a
team south to shoot against tiie Melbourne
Ladies’ Clubs. They will swap shots with
Sydney on the return journey.
One Brisbane damsel, thinking to cheer a
Billjim brother, forwarded a collection of
sweet thoughts from an anthology of verse
on France. Last mail she received this
brutal, beautiful reply: “I wouldn’t give our
back yard for all Europe!”
Two vice-regal birds migrate to Queens-
land early in August—Governor Galway
(S.A.) and Governor Stanley (Vic.). They
will only stay long enough in Sydney to
catch the Brisbane express. So there!
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“L.M.C.”: A sample of how the Govern-
ment deals with the aboriginal in Queens-
land. A few miles from Clump Point (Q.)
is what is called an aboriginal settlement.
Gaol would be a more proper term. Into
this place the abos. were mostly brought by
armed force, in chains and otherwise; a few
by “moral suasion,” inclusive of a threat
that if they r did not come they would be
arrested and sent to some far-distant settle-
ment. To these poor people that would spell
penal servitude for life. If they leave the
settlement they are liable to this penalty.
Some have paid it. No one is allowed to
employ an abo., under heavy penalties, except
through the Government, and the native has
no choice as regards employer or wages. If
the Government thinks fit he is hired out.
and the whole of his wages are paid by the
employer to the Government. The settle-
ment is in a most unhealthy locality, liter-
ally in a swamp, the sickness has been great
and the toll of deaths atrocious. Are the
people of Australia going to stand this?


/
;
ar
,
/
m
Mf
/• %
(JEN BRU3SILOFF
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whislcy.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Brossiloff is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Vice-Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, Lieut.-General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna. Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter 1., General Sarrail, General Brussiloff, General
Russky. will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or \7 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMEi> WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
nQ
dcolc/i WhitM
\ /I
/%
% / *
/ft'"""",
I
i •>•-
c:~"
>C
%
C"*
./
%
%
m. K
*>
...J
\
%
r
%
>
%
JL
p
i
C
3


m
■Vn
r
The Sun Never Sets on the
HUDSON SUPER-SIX
LIKE a mighty empire, Hudson owners cover the globe. No motor-car is built with greater care.
No effort is spared to make the Hudson Super-Six worthy of the world-wide reputation that it now
enjoys. The Super-Six has won every test entered. It holds every record that proves efficiency and
endurance. Every Super-Six model reflects Hudson leadership. In beauty as well as performance, it is
the front-rank car. In every country where motor-cars are used you will find a Hudson Dealer.
Hudson Motor Car Company Largest makers of fine cars in the world.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address : HUDSONCAR— DETROIT.
r o o
algety &. Co. Ltd., 1 5 Bent Street, Sydney,
algety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisban
ane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson &. Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J. Brien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
$
SWEETENED CONDENSED
MU
Stocked By
All Storekeepers
44 X
J
J
\ /
THE PALACE
o/ PURITY
l
mm,
'
ft
5
T
:»
.l;ui'.Jull
E
nianraa
5
stlei
stle
-
' R
CONDENSED
rllLff
cW\^
CONDENSED
M^k\
©r
m
a#
MS
; :
i
li
$4
BRAND
VRilO -5W155 CONDENSED
■Switzerland. LONDON a«oS
T BR AND
sS
m
N E;i
w
tte
D tfr
5W155 COnutNSt
!und LONDON aho
10
tih
Switzer
Is NOW
IN FULL.
SUPPLY
RICHEST
IN CREAM
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
MILKYWAY BOOKLET


BAD
LEG
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
and PILLS are the
great English remedy,
vVithin the reach of all,
In all cases of Bad
Legs, P oisoned
Wounds and Hands,
Ulcers, Carbuncles,
Muscular Pains, Bun-
ions, Snake and Insect
Bites, and will save
lancing or cutting.
English Prices, 1/5, 5/- & s'* per box
Sold by All Stores and Cut mists andnk Usd e by
ELLIOTT BROS., ANTONY ..OTDERNS’,
W. H. SOUL, PATTINSON & CO,,
Australian drug co.
ALBERT & Co., 73, Farringdon St., London, E.C. 4
k
Ji
3
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
tiCARBOLIC])
r
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.
Manchester, Eng.
ABBEY
SHOES!
It is always the truest economy to
buy articles of high quality, there-
fore it will pay you to wear
ABBEY SHOES—the footwear
that is most distinctive in style arid
gives the longest service.
We. illustrate one of our latest
models —a choice Glace Kid Bal..
with Patent-Leather Toecaps.
Price - 27/6
In half- and full-sizes. and three
fittings —narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. Consulting Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed . . £21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
Old in the Prime of Life
DID you ever stop to think why so many
people are old at forty—their energy
spent, their resistance weakened, their effi-
ciency dissipated in the very prime of life*
Nine times out of ten constipation is the immedi-
ate cause of premature age. And the tenth
time old age is the result of specific diseases-
like tuberculosis and Bright’s disease—which
could never have taken hold of the system un
less it had already been weakened by the self-
poisoning which is the result of constipation.
There are all kinds of germs in every man’s
body. Usually his system can shake them off—
but not if his body is clogged with decayed
food—which weakens tissue and feeds germs
at one and the same time.
To keep the body young and vigorous, to re-
lieve constipation and fore-stall disease, use
Nujol. Nujol is not absorbed bv the system
but acts as an internal lubricant
NIUJoI
TRADE MARK
FOR CONSTIPATION
Ask your chemist for booklet. Sold
only in 16 ounce bottles bearing Nujol
trademark. Never in bulk. Avoid
substitutes.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(New Jersey)
U S. A.
FORCONSTIP
ess
Txt:
Sr'i
Some foods that we eat, if hermeti-
cally sealed In a thin glass retort, as
pictured, would literally explode—no
wonder we’re half sick most of the
time !
SOME FOODS
EXPLODE IN
Yo«r STOMACH
-
X.
i
There are many foods, harmless in themselves, which, when eaten in combination with other
harmless foods, produce a chemical reaction in the stomach and literally explode. If you could
look into your stomach right after breakfast, lunch or dinner any day you would understand the
cause of over 90% of all sickness, why most men are less than 50% efficient and why the average
life of man is only 39 years.
Food is the fuel of the human system —it furnishes the motive power for the day’s work. Yet
not one in a hundred knows the chemistry of food or the effects of different foods in combination.
Some of the meals we are copstantl.v eating have the same effect on our system as dynamite, soggy wood,
mud and a little coal would have on a furnace. No wonder we often lack the vital energy neces-
sary to overcome every obstacle in our fight for success! No wonder so many of us are constantly
being held back when we should be forging ahead ! The trouble is that we’re trying to run on fuel
our system simply can’t get any power out of.
24 Lessons in Scientific Eating
By Eugene Christian, F.S.D. No Money in Advance—Only 21/- if You Keep Them.
Eugene Christian has long been recognised as the world's greatest authority on food and its
relation to the human svstem. Over 23,000 people have come under his care, and the resiflts of his
work have bordered on ‘the miraculous. Without drugs or medicines of any kind—simply by teach-
ing the proper selection, combination and proportion of foods under given conditions, he has cured
nearly every known ailment by removing the cause, and has increased the personal efficiency of his
patients to well lOO%.
24 BOILED-DOWN LESSONS. Scientific Eating contains the boiled-down essence of
Eugene Christian’s 20 vears’ experience in actual practice. Every step is logically explained. Reasons
are"given for each statement which anyone can easily understand, and it is an easy matter to follow
the simple directions. And the beauty of Christian’s methods is that you get results with the
very first meal. No special foods are required. You don’t have to upset youi table.to f oll °w the
directions. Neither do you have to eat things you don’t enjoy—Nature never intended that you should.
AN AID TO SUCCESS. You can’t do good work unless
you feel full of “pep” and ginger. The best ideas, plans and
methods —the biggest business deals —are put over when you are
bubbling over with vitality. It is impossible to be really fit
unless your food is scientifically chosen to supply the nutritice
elements your mind and body demand. Man is made up of the
sum total of what he eats. You can’t add up to a very high
state of efficiency if you don't know how to select your food, for
the wrong foods counteract the good in right foods -and
very often two right foods in combination make a wrong food.
Eugene Christian has times without number turned sluggish,
slow, unsuccessful men and women into very dynamos of money-
making efficiency by merely teaching them food values.
SEND NO MONEY. The Christian Course in Scientific
Eating was designed and prepared to sell at 70s. A great
many people have enrolled at this figure, and have expressed the
deepest satisfaction. Dr. Christian has decided, however, that
both he and humanity at large would benefit more if he could
make a price that would put this great work in the hands of
the greatest number of people in the quickest possible time.
So by cutting out all fancy bindings, etc., we have been able
to make an introductory price of 21s. on the complete course in
24 lessons. But Dr. Christian doesn’t even want you to pay this
trifling price until you have had an opportunity to examine the
course in vour own home and find out what a wonderful aid to
health and efficiency it really is. So you are not asked to send
a penny in advance.
Merely fill out and mail the coupon, enclosing
your business card or giving a reference, and the
entire course will be sent, all charges paid, the
dav we hear from you. Keep it five days. Study
it at vour leisure. Then if you feel you can
afford not to be master of the invaluable informa-
tion it contains, send it back and you owe us
nothing. Mail the coupon now, however, as this
offer may never again be repeated.
CORRECTIVE EATING SOCIETY,
V 100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
EAT CHRISTIAN S WAY.
FEEL LIRE A BOY.
B. 19/7/’l7.
Corrective Eating Society,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Send me the “Christian Course in Scientific
Eating.” I will either remail it within five days,
and owe you nothing, or send you 21s.
Name
Address
City / S' t-.
Lieut. John Leslie Tooth, killed last month
ih France, was one of the 14 cadets sent by
King’s School, Parramatta, to the Indian
Durbar in 1911.
John Johnstone, M.L.A. for Polwarth
(Vic.), who sells sheep and sideboards at
Colac, is tired of politics. Possibly the fact
that John has never been given a Ministerial
job may have helped him in his decision to
quit Parliament, his highest climb having
been into the chair of the Closer Settlement
Commission.
There are two women on the new execu-
tive of the N. S. Wales P.L.L.—Mrs. Toohey
(representing a city league) and May
Matthews (the Clerks’ Union). But Mrs.
Kate Dwyer is a notable absentee.
“Wingen*’ Abbott, in his latest periodic
outburst in the Sydney papers, suggests that,
as a means of checking shearing troubles,
pastoralists should sue strikers in the
Supreme Court for damages for breach of
contract. “Wingen” added pathetically:—
I always intended to do this on my own account
if the occasion should arise; but in the whole of niv
46 years experience as a pastoralist, fortunately or
unfortunately, 1 have never had a strike or a stoppage
of work in fny shed, and so never got the oppor-
tunity.
It is a queer “opportunity” for an employer
to regret having missed; but the fact that
lie never had it suggests that Abbott on
Wingen is much less ferocious than Abbott
on paper.
Meb Gilbert had three works in London
Royal Academy exhibition —“The Critic,” a
study of a head in marble, bought by the
Chantrey Bequest trustees; a bronze bust of
banker G. 4. Shillinglaw, of Melbourne; and
a full-figure plaster-cast of a mother and
child. Arthur Streeton’s glowing valley
scene, ‘‘Australian December,” has stirred
the critics to praise its exquisite coloring.
Other exhibitors are G. Clausen. Iluahes-
Stanton, Arnesby-Brown, Adrian Stokes and.
B. Priestman. There is also Andrew Fisher
in oils, from the palette of Britisher K. McK.
Edmunds. Andy, by the way, has shaved off
his frosted moustache since the picture was
painted.
Billjim’s explorations in Palestine: —
They tell the yarn that Christianity was born and
cradled here. 1 suppose cleanliness was next door:
it certainly didn’t dwell in these tents. So we have
brought civilisation in the shape of a “shower.” It
is made of a kerosene-tin mostly, but it is the
most wonderful thing in the Wadi. Around us are
some old ruins. One on the top of a hill has mosaics
with animals and “wogs” worked in different colored
quartz, also an inscription in Greek. In the vaults
underneath are plenty of old bones. I picked a human
shinbone in fairly good repair. My horse has the
go-slow habit, but a touch on the stern with that
bone brightens him up wonderfully. There must be
some Greek fire left in it. Perhaps the prop of some
Joe Cook or Billy Hughes of his time! Who knows?
Still, it serves—-it serves..
“M.P.A.”: Tlie Australian girl-musician
who may be tempted by a proffered engage-
ment with a hotfel or restaurant orchestra
in Java should be very careful indeed be-
fore accepting, and in any case should insist
on a hard and fast contract with any Dutch
principals before setting foot on a ship. A
cafe at one of the three bigger cities is at
present searching for a trio, and there are
always managements angling for bright and
attractive girls, talking good salary as an in-
ducement to “go East.” The principal objection
raised by Australians is the fear of fever,
but that risk doesn’t amount to much. There
is a far bigger danger; and a British Vice-
Consul with years of experience in the
Netherlands Indies has had to come to the
rescue of more unprotected Australian girls
than I had thought possible.
“And,” asked very little Willie, who had
been looking at a newspaper-picture of an
aeroplane-smash, with explanations from the
rest of the family, “when I came down from
Heaven, why didn’t I come down with a
bang?”
“Jacko”: Here is another way by which
Webster might save cash and assist the
public. It is now almost impossible to buy a
postage stamp in any country town after
dark. Why not arrange, then, for stamps
to be impressed on the letters right at the
letter-boxes? This should be a simple pro-
blem in mechanics. I’ve seen the plans of a
small machine fixed up in such a way that
the insertion of a penny and the depression
of a button automatically stamp a letter, the
withdrawal winding up the show for the
next customer. Such a contrivance would
save a little paper and a lot of language.
Webster’s new mail-closing hours in the
country don’t encourage chasing round for
stamps; in Bathurst, for instance, the boxes
close each afternoon five hours before the
departure of the mail for Sydney. And any
letter posted after 8 p.m. on Saturday doesn t
reach its mark in Sydney till the following
Tuesday! But I’m wandering away from
economy now and getting on to efficiency.
“Steve II.”: X. S. Wales rabbit-trappers
are striking everywhere, and I don’t wonder
at it. Prices formerly paid to the trapper
were 9d. and 3d. per pair for larse and
small rabbits respectively on railway station.
Prices (fixed by Government) to consumer
were about double those rates. Now the artful
middleman says he has no room in the freez-
ing works, unless the* trapper will take 7d.
and 2d. per pair. Of course the trapper can
skin his rabbits and refuse to cart to the
freezing sharks. But —here he is up against
it again—the Government fixed the price of
skins below market rates. (The circular sent
to hat-mill proprietors warned them not to
increase the price of hats, as they were “get-
ting skins under market rates.’’) I see that
the Commonwealth Government has made a
profit to date of nearly £lO.OOO from its
rabbit-skin transactions. So the trapper is
being fleeced both ways and every way. I
can say from personal experience of every
kind of bush work that there is none that
entails harder work or longer hours than
trapping. Rain, hail and snow, the trapper
must go Out tramping through bog and slush
with a load of rabbits on his back and a
hurricane-lamp making the darkness just
visible. Then he is robbed of the few pounds
he earns.


Am us fluent*.
Harry Rickard
Governing Director
Tivoli Theatres JLtd.
. iiugh d. mcintosh.
JIVOM TIIEATR IS, SYDNEY
EVENINGS 8; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
An Epoch in Vaudeville.
COLOSSAL SUCCESS OF MISS
ADA RKIiVE,
\A orld s most famous Comedienne and a brilliant
Vaudeville Co.
I‘IVOU THEATRE, MET.ItOI KNK.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MTSS NELLIE STEWART
as
SWEET NELL OF OLD DUCKY,
IN SERIAL FORM.
VAUDEVILLE IN ADDITION.
Prices: 4/-, 3/- 2/- and 1/-.
ARITEIiIOX T H EATIt K. SYDNEY.
w Direction .T, C. WITLUMSON LTD.
Last two nights of GOOD GRACIOUS, ANNABELLE.
SATURDAY, JULY 21
MARIE TEMPEST,
England’s Greatest Comedy Actress, in Henry Arthur
I Jones’s last Comedv,
MARY COES FIRST.
GRAHAM BROWNE in association.
I-| K It MAJESTY'S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MOST WONDERFUL DRESS DISPLAY EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
CANADY COTTAGE.
The last word in loveliness and liveliness.
Plans at Palings, Day Sales Callose’s.
P ALACK THE A T RE, SY DNE Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES and JACK WALLER present
LOOK WHO’S HLRE.
A KALEIDOSCOPIC INNOVATION.
Glowing with gladness of the season when the
heart is young.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
TRIANGLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven't seen Sydney until you’ve visited trie
«J MO N NCTCRE THEATRES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
’The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
'"it select prog-rams of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.rn. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W; Barrington Miller, General Manager.
VIsI T O R S T O SY!»N E Y.
w An addressed, stamped envelope will bring to
you by return mail a list of current attractions at
principal Sydney Theatres, etc.
WHAT’S ON? ADVERTISING CO.,
B5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KR MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELIIOI R.\ E
Direction J. C. WILLIAM SON LTD.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C.' WILLIAMSON LTD. revive
THE MIKADO
With a Brilliant Oast. '
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
T H KA T R E ROY A L. M ELBOU RN E
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
CYRIL MAUDE
in his world-famous production of
GRUMPY.
yriNG’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
LAST NIGHTS OP SARA ALLGOOD
in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
OUT THERE, a grippingly human play of thrills
and laughter, commencing JULY 28.
Prices: Reserved Stalls, Reserved D.C., 5/-:
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/- (late door, 1/-).
piiIXCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE
the story of the rosary.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
-j-HE AUDITORIUM. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, JULY <>l
RETURN OF THOSE FAVORITE SINGERS
EVELYN HOWARD
SCOTNEY, WHITE,
Australia’s Brilliant Songbird. The Popular Basso.
CONCERTS ON JULY 21, 24, 20,' 28 31.
Plan at Allan’s.
IyiAJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
ENID BENNETT
in
A PRINCESS OF THE DARK.
i And
DOROTHY DALTON
in
WILD WINSHIP’S WIDOW.
Plan at Allan's.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH PATHF
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK. * ’
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tbe
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
What a Delight
to shave with a Razor that will do its work clean
and slick in one act—that is, without a second
lathering. This is the unfailing experience of the
man who uses
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE XO/O—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15, 6.
Pair in Double Case. 30/-
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Li;
The “Plum” Razor
An Old and Trusted Friend
with Hundreds of Shavers.
f \ C,
tp-i
• ./A
mitsm
06751. —Military Compass, in Strong
Solid Nickel Hunting Case.
Price 10/6.
Three Gifts that
are essentially
Useful to Men.
Each one Inexpensive.
Each one Thoroughly Reliable.
Write for Catalogue of other Gifts to—
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY
Stewart Dawson’s Famous “Klip-Klip” Manicure,
Best Quality Silver Plate. Price 2/6.
Neat Design Penknife, in
Rolled Gold, highest quality
blades. Price 10/6.
THE MASTER-MUSICIAN KNOWS
THE “GRAMOLA”
No. I—£7o.
that there are many parts of the world to
which he, personal] y, may never go; and
that in those parts his playing—or his sing-
ing. as it may be, will be judged solely by
the reproduction of it upon a talking
machine.
Therefore—and for that reason solely—ALL
the celebrities sing and play exclusively for
’‘His Master’s
Voice.”
They know by experience that “His Master’s
Voice” Instruments and records will do full
justice to their marvellous performances.
A record by Caruso IS Caruso, to all intents and purposes; so with a
Paderewski, a Kubelik or Zimballist—all are realistic records.
To get the true effects use “His Master’s Voice”
Records on “His Master’s Voice” Instruments.
We illustrate the GRAMOLA No. 1 in choVest Oir-
cassian Walnut. £7O. Other models from £7 1
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
y^aiter*
m
m
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET ___ S YDi\EV.
(Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 21st June, 1917
Tenders for Pumping Plant and Equip,
ment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney
r pENDERS will be received, subject to the
1 conditions of tendering, for the supply
and delivery of Pumping Station Plant and
Equipment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney, N.S.W
until 12 noon on Wednesday, 10th OctoW'
1917.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette
obtainable at any Post Office, or at the Office
of the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
i
" if 7,
FREE TRIAL!
A 14 Days’ Supply of Calox. 1
The big sample we send you will '
f show how this unique dentifrice
tastes and acts.
■ Attach your name and address to
1 this advertisement, mail to Calox
f Dept., Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., 480 1
Collins Street, Melbourne, enclosing two
penny stamps to cover postage, and the
liberal sample tin will be promptly for-
warded. When
f
McK & R
The OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER
is moistened, Oxygen is released. This
active ingredient neutralises the acid
secretions ; it is ever on “Active Ser-
vice, ’ and declares war on all dan-
gers that menace the teeth. It
cleanses the mouth scientifically,
enters into every recess where
germs are silently working
and removes the seat of
decay. The big free sample
will convince you of
the individual advan-
tages of Calox. Get it
now. Calox is pro-
curable from
All Chemists &
Leading- Stores
F.19/7/’l7.
B3OMOdMUOi | '
I
XOTVD
PLEASURABLE
_ CYCLING
-to
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel.
On. sale by all the following firms.
W rite or call for particular's.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; R. K. Russaek, Edge-
eliffe, Sydney; Philip Frankel & Co.,
Edward St M Brisbane; Eyes and Crowle
Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter,
Box 300 G.P.0., Perth, W.A.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
uaiiiiiliij
CURES Wrlte7o7 Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S - G r Rf,EN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Enjland.
insist on Singleton's” —refuse all substitutes.
1
jn
rsviV,
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents: HAMMOND CSL CO., 212 Clarenr* w* •
Queensland Agents: QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTn tr ® et * Sydney.
Victorian Agents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Agents: GIBBS, BRIGHT rn reet ’ Melbourne.
04 t-0., Adelaide.


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
. , ‘° l ur little girl broke out in a rash and
pimples all dver her body and legs. She
used to scratch the rash until it bled and
came out in little eruptions. The skin
was very red and inflamed. Her clothes
used to irritate her dreadfully and we
to put soft bandages on her at times.
We used to read in the paper about
people who had tried Cuticura Soap and
Ointment and cured themselves, so we
decided to try them. In two weeks the
eruptions were all gone and the rash has
not returned to her again.” (Signed)
Mrs. Jessie Richards, 27 Oberon Ave.,
Upper Hawthorn, Vic., August 17, 1915
Pree sample each by post with 32-p.
okin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns *Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE’S
SPECIALS
rwo
L/NES
sKlf
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/kN^
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZT /KWTER S T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
,CARTRIDGES*^
Always Reliable
m
m
0|
ELEY ‘Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Powder
and lrs oz. shot.
ELEY 32
s. & vv.
Revolver
ELEY
25
Automatic
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L? LONDON
v>
M 1
0
9 ©) 3»
8 H-M
rfc 5
9
8
iUkstdax
BIG BEN
Le§
He’ll Remember
Big Ben to
rouse you at seven
and get you on the
job on time.
Give Big Ben your
message. He’ll re-
member. He is a
tried, true, trust-
worthy friend. Ex-
actly on the minute
he sends out his
vigourous call.
Reach over silence
him. Fresh as a daisy
you leap out of bed. In
little or no time you are
shaved, tubbed, dressed
—fresh, full of vigour—
and prepared for a day of
real accomplishment.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful,deep-toned voice—large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watchlike escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for five minutes or
intermittently for ten. 15/- at all clock
dealers.
La Salle, 111., U.S. A. Western Clock Co. Makers of Westclox
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
PLUME BENZIHE
does no /* vary
MAKE a note of that, Sir! *‘Plume” is the same
pure, clean, powerful spirit the year round —
on the hottest day or the coldest night. “Plume”
is as unvarying as the Sphinix, each gallon being of uni-
form quality throughout, and reaching you in the same
pure, dependable form as it leaves our Refinery.
Many Motorists praise its “kick,” appreciating the
extra mileage it gives.
So, when next you are going to fill, turn in at a “Plume”
sign. All garages sell “Plume.”
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
P.R. 3.
X
mm
m
't
•»
Urvvariable!
BLUE MOON LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s a grand old place is Blue Moon Land, and,
although it’s far away,
Some of us send in contraband a-many a time a day !
I got me a box of vows for Liz (she of the wicked
eye)—
“They’re snug in Blue Moon Land,” I said, “and
you’ll get them by-and-bye.”
“I wish they were nearer home,” says she. From
her shoes she fetched a sigh.
The preacher sat me by his side. “Some words I
have,” quoth he,
“For a young man boldly launching forth on Life’s
delusive sea.
Now, everywhere are rocks of Sin and currents of
Hell. Ah, me!”
I took the preacher’s sage advice, and I shook him
by the hand,
And kept an eye for the rocks of Sin and Satan’s
bright quicksand,
And packed it up—the advice, I mean —and marked
it “Blue Moon Land.”
The wonderful things in Blue Moon Land are far too
rich and rare
To waste their sweejtness (so to speak) on this
world’s desert air.
So, speaking just for myself, I hope the precious
things stay there!
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
The Inky Way.
“H.” : The London “Cocoa Press” is mak-
ing fresh captures. Its latest acquisition is
the bought by Arnold Rown-
tree. The Athenaeum was very hard hit
by the war; but it will be a first-rate prop-
erty again when Bill is k mked out and the
big publishing houses resume business on the
old lines. Until recently the Athenaeum
was the property of the Dilke family. The
late Sir Charles, who toured Australia in the
’sixties and scored a remarkable success with
his “Greater Britain,” for a long time drew
a steady £7OOO a year from the Athenaeum
and the Gardener’s Chronicle, issued from
the same office. Dilke’s “Life,” written by
Stephen Gwynn, an Irish literary M.P., is,
by the way, announced for early publication.
Lately, at Mungindi, on the Barwon,
Bingham, proprietor of the News, not to be
stuck, brought out an issue printed on brown
wrapping-paper.
* * * *
“ Jacko”: The country rag is being
punched all round the ring. The N.S.W.
Western line has come down to two dailies,
both at Bathurst. One has reduced its size
by a third and the other has turned round
to the afternoon. The former has woes for
which the submarine and the paper merchant
and the new lino, award and the A.J.A. are
not responsible. It has been presented with
a writ for £2OOO by the matron of the local
hospital.
* * * *
“Kuku-Kuku” : The Bulletin is notori-
ous among papers that are unfit to be trusted
out alone. Its behavior in country post
offices is scandalous. Other papers lie neatly
on the shelves waiting to be called for by
their legitimate owners. The Bulletin
casts itself on the floor, loses itself behind
baskets, tears its wrapper off in a mad
fury of temper, and swears it is not owned
.by anybody. So the kindly post-office official
takes it in and gives it a home. Next mail
it does the same thing again. It leaps out
of mailbags, it gets lost crossing fords, it
flies out of the window of peaceful libraries,
while other papers keep in their places and
look shocked at its conduct. And if you leave
it in your bedroom in the hotel without nail-
ing it down, it hardly waits to see you out
of the door before it makes a bolt. The
only way I can keep mine is to lock it in a
box, or wrap it in the cover of the Sydney
Female, which seems to have a paralysing
effect.
* * * *
The Censor in Westralia appears to be
displaying favoritism. For instance, Laver-
ton Mercury was permitted to release these
two items of interesting news on June 4: —
An Amsterdam telegram says that on Tuesday two
German destroyers were toed to Zeebrugge very
much damaged.
An Austrian communique says that the enemy’s
massed attacks at Gamaino broke down and there
were heavy losses. We took 600 prisoners, making
217,000,000 since the 12th of May.
No other paper in Australia was allowed to
print this —presumably because it would in-
terfere with recruiting.
* v* * *
“XXX”: The Bulletin (5/7/T7) was
quite right in describing Charlie Mar ter,
late sub-editor of S3’dney Telegraph, as an
eager, simple soul. He was the most im-
pressionable of men when any tale of misery
was told. Once in Maoriland he happened
to be on his way to buy a bicycle when a
deadbeat bailed him up with a story of hard-
luck. Marter gave the misfortunate a couple
of half-crowns. As the stranger shuffled
away Marter stood thinking. Then he
hurried after the deadbeat. What followed
I don’t know; I only know Marter didn’t
buy a bicycle. He explained that he really
didn’t require it: it was quite a luxury.
*• * * *
“Pluto”: One of the first actions of the
Fusion was to refuse to carry the I.W.W.
organ Direct Action through the post. The
circulation, instead of suffering a slump,
thereupon increased rapidly, and the rag still
clanks the chains of wage-slavery all over
the country. The present editor, a product
of Melbourne and the swag, Norman Rancie,
has had three terms in the “can,” and the
manager, Tom Barker, has seen the gates
close on five occasions.
/ • * * *
Killed in France, Private Lit. C. Groom,
a third-generation youngster of the old Too-
woomba family whose founder used to sit
part of the time in the chair of the local
Chronicle and other times in the top-seat
of the Assembly. Private Lit. was sub-
editor of the family Chronicle when the
Devil took charge.
* * * *
Robert Frater, one time a Sydney press-
man, turned up in London the other day.
He belongs to the Naval Flying Corps and
wears two stars on his sleeve.


IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 3/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
"MILLER”
Oil Heaters
Manufactured by the famous house
of "Miller” are known and appreci-
ated the world over for their Smoke-
less and Economical Qualities. They
are built upon solid lines and
noted for their sturdiness.
We also manufacture the famous
"Miller” Lighting Fixtures and Lamps
of Electric, Gas and Oil Variety.
Look over the "Miller” line it will pay
you. Obtainable at all the best dealers.
Made by EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
3 V
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Edison BlueAmberol
Records for July
The list of records for July—which are now on sale at
all dealers —include some particularly bright and pleasing
items.
Billy Murray and chorus contribute two happy records
this month —“Are You From Dixie?” and “Arrah Go On,
I’m Gonna Go Back to Oregon.”
“For All Eternity” (Jas. Harrod), “Down Where the
Swanee River Flows” (G. W. Ballard and chorus),
“Hospital Patients” (B. Golden and J. Marlowe), and
“Way Dgwn in Borneo-o-o-o” (L. T. Chick) will be
much in demand.
Each record is a good one. Order early.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
28245 —Ernani! Involami—Ernani (Verdi).
Soprano, in Italian, orchestra accom-
paniment. Alice Verlet.
28246—Tambourin Chinois. Violin, piano,
accompanied by Jacques Grunberg'.
Mary Zentay.
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2942 —Are You From Dixie? (’Cause I’m
From Dixie, Too). Tenor, orchestra
accompaniment.
Billy Murray and Chorus.
2954 —She Sang “Aloha” to Me. Tenor,
orchestra accompaniment.
Walter Van Brunt and Chorus.
2956—Hapa Haole Hula Girl. Hawaiian
Guitars.
Helen Louise and Palakiko Ferreira.
2964 —Fair Hawaii. Soprano and tenor,
orchestra' accompaniment.
Gladys Rice and Walter Van Brunt.
2966 —Waters of Venice Waltz. For Dancr
ing. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
2968 — Gay Gossoon. Banjo, orchestra ac-
companiment. Vess L. Ossman.
2969 — Down Where the Swanee River Flows.
Tenor, orchestra accompaniment.
George Wilton Ballard and Chorus.
2970 Dublin Mary Brown. Tenor, orches-
tra accompaniment.
Irving Kaufman and Chorus.
2973 Way Down in Borneo-o-o-o. Tenor,
orchestra accompaniment.
Leonard T. Chick.
2974 You’re a Dangerous Girl. Contralto
and baritone, orchestra acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph A. Phillips.
2977 La Paloma (The Dove). Baritone,
orchestra accompaniment.
Thomas Chalmers and Chorus.
2978 I Lost My Heart in Honolulu. Tenor,
orchestra accompaniment.
George Wilton Ballard and Chorus.
2979 When Priscilla Tries to Reach High
C. Orchestra accompaniment.
Ada Jones and Billy Murray.
2981—Hospital Patients. Coon Sketch.
Billy Golden and James Marlowe.
2983 —For All Eternity. Tenor, with or-
chestra. James Harrod.
2986 Arrah Go On, I’m Gonna Go Back to
Oregon. Tenor, orchestra ace.
Billy Murray.
2987 I’ll Take You Home Again, Kathleen.
Tenor, orchestra accompaniment.
Walter Van Brunt and Chorus.
2988 Sunset on the St. Lawrence, Waltz.
For Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
27032—Refrains Populaires.
Garde Republicaine (French) Band.
27048—Express Orient—Galop imitatif.
Garde Republicaine (French) Band.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
84. Harrington
D.8.8.L. Gun,
hardened frame, 26in
about 5 Jib
and Richardson’s
4d 0-gauge, top lever, case-
. barrels, both ehoke; weight,
Freight paid, £4/10/-
tJZ
836. Riverside Arms Co, D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 71 to 8 lb., 16-gauge to 7$ lb. —
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/5/-
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/7/6
M
33
1
837. Stevens Anns Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight of 12-«auge
<t to 8i lb., 16-gauge, 7* to S lb.—
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, £4
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid,' £4/5/-
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., post free.
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7*lb Freight paid, £6/6/-
i9n \fnVi nC !l eSter A,lt s )niatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
barrels, SSin./Sl Se fdow/ f stol ™kel-steei
Magazine holds 5 1 , JS em ’ chambered for 2Jin. shells.
a 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight, 7flb.
838. Remington Browning Automat.v Frei s ht paid, £9/12/6
similar description to 837 & Repeating Shot-Gun, 12-gauge,
Freight paid, £9/12/6
m 3
1903 Mod el' Tpecfa 1 f 2 U «U ”re dm ® e P eat * n h f Ri«e,
steel barrel, detachable stock i / ’ roUnd blued 20in '
3 seconds; weight about Mk"' . Sl ? 0ot 10 cartridges in
’ ei D nt, about s*lb.; sighted point blank to
Freight paid, £6/6/-
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE
British=made.
Box of 5, 2/6 post free.
Mldel W 25/20- eS |? r 38 Re P eat “ lg R t ifl 1 es ’ 1892
full • * . 9 44-calibre, central fire,
With Round Barrel magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, 87/6
With i-Oetagon Barrel, 32-cal. only .... Freight paid, 90/-
816. Winchester Repeatinff Carhinps Vsao VV V ’ V''''' Freight paid, 90/-
central fire, full or half magazinesf* 2 '’ 38 ‘ or
weight, about sjlb. Freight paid, 77/6
JMS
25 shoit, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight s*lb.-
Same „ above, with ..and barrel P«lgE pit
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List r>i\ ■.
Guide {Catalogue B 2) Poet Free ft. e ! ' a^so 'Sure Catch” Anglers’
gue «), Post Free to any address. Write for one or hath lists. The,
WKk a, 'e money savers.
ac
• -j
fIVSTIWLim GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
7irfD TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St, also at
NentujslJe £ Brisbane


m
/
■ ■
m
Baby
ROBINSON
jrom a\
photo.).\
A BONNY REXONA BABY.
“Rexona Soap is Excellent for Baby” says a Tasmanian Mother.
“I have been using your Rexona Soap for my baby Nancy ever since
she was born, and I think it a splendid Soap for Babies,” writes Mrs. J. H.
Robinson, Waratah, Tasmania. “It is excellent for the skin and hair, and
Baby likes it so well. She knows it as well as I do.
“I, too, have used your Rexona Soap and think it is excellent, and
I can assure you that Baby and I will never be without it in the house. I
had Baby’s picture taken, which I am sending you and hope you will
like it.”
Bath Your Baby with Rexona Soap.
A healthy baby always enjoys a bath, and Rexona Soap makes your child a
healthy baby. It keeps her skin fresh and sweet, her scalp so clean and wholesome.
Any irritation of the skin which keeps baby awake, or makes her cross and peevish,
Rexona Soap will quickly soothe. A refreshing: bath with Rexona Soap and grentle
anointing: with Rexona will cool her skin and take away all discomforts, so that;
baby and mother will sleep quietly. The pure, sweet emollients used in Rexona Soap
are suited to baby’s delicate skin and keep it in the best condition. Rexona babies
are contented babies, because they feel well cared for and comfortable. Get a tablet
of Rexona Soap from your chemist or g:rocer. You are sure to like it. Price 1/-
per tablet.
0
o
o
SKIN & FACIAL
MEDICATED
SOAP
DeUlXv
■no YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
■when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood. , , , ,
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of iron Jelloids the
“most effective and desirable treatment
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . • IRON JELLOIDS No. 2 A.
For Anaemia in Women . . . IRON JELLOIDS No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/'.
V
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
1/6 ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO , 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
m
m
All Souls’ Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a raw November morn
Of weeping rain, of weeping rain.
Tears blurred the eyes of day re-born.
A small church in a sodden plain,
Set round with poplars shrapnel-torn,
In weeping rain, in weeping rain.
A single bell tolled once for Mass
(The Cross was broken from the spire) ;
I,ike drowned men’s hair the rain-soaked
grass.
Now, plodding through the sad grey mire,
The black-clad peasant women pass
(The Cross was broken from the spire).
Beyond the limits of the plain
Steadily beat the pulse of war.
Athwart the fine grey veils of rain
A dull sound came from very far ;
Like a strong pulse within the brain
Steadily beat the pulse of war.
Within the church a thin bell cried.
The priest was bent; the women prayed.
A blind girl turned her head aside
And drew her breath like one afraid —
Her soft, black, sightless eyes were wide.
The priest was bent; the women prayed.
She plucked her mother by the shawl
(Her beads had fallen from her hand) ;
‘T see the lights. I see the wall,
And those that kneel, and those that stand ;
But you I cannot see at all”
(Her beads had fallen from her hand).
“There are no women here,” she said ;
“The church is crowded to the door.
Their cheeks are pale, their wounds are red—
Ah, God ! the blood upon the floor!
I cannot see the priest’s bent head—
The church is crowded to the door!
“And blue they wear, and red they wear,
And many here are garbed in grey.
There is a man with flaxen hair —
He seems as though he could not pray !
His coat is grey, his sword is bare;
And many here are garbed in grey.
“They crowTJ so close they stifle me;
They press against the altar rail.
The altar now I cannot see ;
The candle flames are growing pale.
Mother! the priest—oh, where is he?
They press against the altar rail!”
“Hush, Marie, hush ! The priest is here.
Marie, my child, my child, be still!
The bell has rung; the lights are clear.
Oh, Heaven have mercy ! You are ill!
Put out your hand —there Is none near.
Marie, my child, my child, be still!”
The wet ran down the leaded pane :
They heard the rain drip from the eaves;
The saering bell rang out again,
Drearily, as a mourner grieves.
The blind dawn wept above the plain ;
They heard the rain drip from the eaves.
She looked to left; she looked to right;
She did not bend her smooth dark head.
She was as one who has full sight
But what he sees he needs must dread ;
Her frightened eyes were wide and bright;
She did not bend her smooth dark head.
“Mother, the walls dissolve in light!”
(Blind was the grey and weeping morn)
“I see a Figure tall and white —
Upon His head a crown of thorn.
Behind Him stands the sun so bright!”
(Blind was the grey and weeping morn.)
“His hands are pierced, His arms outspread ;
The sky is blood from east to west;
Like shadow-shapes the walls have fled —
So great the crowd, I am opprest.
There is no roof above my head —
The sky is blood from east to west!
“And all their hands are raised to Him.
And there is blood on all their hands;
They fill the plain from rim to rim,
So many men of many lands!
The skies with flaming splendors swim—
And there is blood on all their hands.”
The eaves with constant raindrops bled ;
Unshaken was each altar-flame;
One small dull window glimmered red.
A sound of muttered Latin came.
The priest upraised a Flake of Bread,
Unshaken was each altar-flame.
The blind girl lay along the floor
(Steadily wept the leaden skies) ;
They bore her through the low church door,
And then she opened her blind eyes.
Afar off beat the pulse of war;
Steadily wept the leaden skies.
“I can see only night,” she said
(Guns spoke beyond the sodden plain) ;
“Their cheeks were pale, their wounds were
red !
I do not wish to see again
Save in God’s House when I am dead.”
(Guns spoke beyond the sodden plain.)
U.S.A
DULCIE DEAMER.
A Deal in Brumbies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE had finished shearing at Kinnoul,
a small shed on the Dawson, and
on Monday morning Stahmer, Deaf
Harry and I left for Eurombah, a squattage
12 miles distant that was famed for its
brumbies, barramundi and bunyip. The
brumbies ran in big mobs in the brigalow
scrubs; the barramundi grew to huge pro-
portions in Eurombah Lagoon, which, accord-
ing to the blacks, who had long shunned it,
was also the home of the bunyip.
A thunderstorm the day before had left
pools and sheets of water gleaming all over
the flats. There was still a drizzling rain
when we started, and as none of us had over-
coats we substituted flour-sacks, cutting a
hole in the bottom and slitting the sides for
armholes before slipping them over our heads.
Reaching below our knees, they kept us
fairly dry. The idea was Harry’s. He had
a fondness for bags. The greater part of his
pack consisted of Wagga rugs and Murrum-
bidgee blankets.
Harry led the way. He also led a short-
tailed chestnut horse, an attenuated and
melancholy animal which carried our swags.
He slipped down in the mud three times, and
required our conjoint assistance to stagger
up again. We walked one behind the other,
through slush and water, scattered branches,
driftwood and bullyfrogs. Each man carried
a billycan in one hand and a pair of boots
slung over his shoulder on the end of a
stick. We were like three wandering adver-
tisements, each bearing the name of a parti-
cular brand of flour, the trade-mark, the
miller’s name and the name of his factory
in big red letters on the back.
In this fashion we trudged and slipped
along to Eurombah, and had just got nicely
settled in the harness-room when another
storm came on.
We had heard a good deal about Eurom-
bah brumbies, and intimated to Mr. Lord
that we wished to buy some. (I had two
pounds sterling in my pocket.) Mr. Lord
promised to have several hundred horses in
for our inspection on Wednesday. He offered
to keep us in meat and to lend us fishing-
lines (that was to save the meat) ; so my
two mates promptly decided to wait. I
would have gone on, as buying a horse meant
buying riding gear; and when you take the
price of a horse out of two pounds you
haven’t much left to spend on accoutrements.
But that evening I met a wandering ex-
jockey named George Boyce, who was going
my way and knew the road. The others
were bound for Roma. George, whose small,
wrinkled face was ornamented with a sandy
moustache, was a cheerful sort who could
joke and sing in the face of his own adver-
sity. He was so near-sighted that he nearly
had no sight at all. Deaf Harry, who had
met him before, endeavored to persuade him
to go to Roma.
“You’re Jdtnd an’ I’m deaf,” he argued,
“an’ only be a twin nuisance to them
other fellers. I can’t hear the horse-bells,
an’ you can’t see the horses. They’ll have
ter horse-hunt for us. But if we go together
you’ll be able to hear the bells an’ show me
the direction, an’ I’ll be able ter see the
horses.”
This brilliant idea didn’t come off. George
had three horses, and had agreed, if I bought
a brumby, to quieten and ride it for me
whilst I rode one of his. When we reached
the Maranoa he would give me another for
it. This generous offer was induced by the
fact that George had neither money nor
tobacco, and bady wanted a financial mate.
I agreed to his proposal, while desperately
calculating how much I could apportion to
the various items I had to purchase out of
my two pounds.
Tuesday was mainly spent on the banks of
the lagoon fishing for barramundi, the
excitement of which saved me a lot of
suspense.
Everybody was astir early on Wednesday,
Harry and Stalimer talking horse and crack-
ing jokes about riding. They were also dis-
playing a lively interest in all such things as
saddle-straps, buckles and stirrup-irons. Lots
of these articles were going to ruin in out-
of-the-way corners, and it was marvellous
how quickly an energetic man could amal-
gamate into something of utility.
There was a great muster of brumbies
during the morning, and after lunch Mr.
Lord took us up to the stockyards. He was
a big, hearty man, clean-shaven, with a
ruddy and happy cast of countenance.
We clustered at a little drafting-yard
through which the horses we're passed. There
seemed to me to be enough of them to
supply the Indian market, most of them
well-set and attractive animals. They were
worked through the yards by two stockmen
and two brumby-shooters—for thousands of
the horses were trapped and shot every sum-
mer for their hides.
The first eight were snorters, and the
buyers stood off. Then a wild black colt
took Stahmer’s fancy. He was a handsome
beast, with great neck and quarters, and an
ebony coat that shone like silk.
“What’s the figure?”
“Thirty bob. Dirt cheap to anyone who
can ride.”
As Stalimer had been blowing about his
riding, this sounded like a challenge. George,
who wanted to see some fun, offered to give
a hand with the breaking-in as an extra in-
ducement. Stalimer hunted the colt round
the yard several times, and could find no
fault with him. He was certainly cheap. I
would have bought him myself if he had been
cheaper.
“I’ll take him.” said Stahmer.
Th ree more went through ; then a big bay
colt was blocked. Deaf Harry got down off
the rails to look at him. He was a handy-
sort of horse, suitable for saddle, pack or
harness. The owner highly recommended
him, and on this recommendation Harry
became the purchaser.
I was the only buyer left.
A splendid-looking chestnut was the first
blocked for my inspection. Five pounds! I
searched it desperately for a fault, and con-
cluded that it was too fiery about the heels.
Another chestnut followed. Three pounds.
This one was easier for a buyer of limited
means to judge; it was too clumsy. Two
beautiful bays were the next at 50s. each.
Too wild. They sent in the fifth, and the
sixth —they sent in 75, and the 75 were
rejected as being defective in 75 different
ways. Mr. Lord was beginning to talk to
himself, and to wonder what he had brought
the horses in for. The drafters were using
uncomplimentary language; and this unfor-
tunate buyer began to wish himself several
miles and a furlong up a dry gully.
Only a few now remained of the first yard
for me to inspect. I continued tp inspect.
Presently along came a weedy, brown gallo-
way, slab-sided and lop-eared like a donkey.
Its mane was long and matted, its tail
trailed on the ground. It had one good
point—it looked quiet.
(Continued on next pane.)


TAKES
YOU
“ You don’t know you have it until it has you.’’
SO QUIET is kidney disease in its approach that it is often mistaken
for some other complaint. The woman who is tired all the day, sleepless
the night through ; who is anaemic, irritable, nervous ; who suffers from
dizzy spells, rheumatism, headache ; whose eyelids are puffy and swollen —she
puts down her trouble to some female complaint instead of to the real cause —
the kidneys. The man whose back is weak, whose limbs drag; who has dis-
tressing urinary troubles, dropsy, gravel —he never suspects his kidneys,
which are the real cause of his illness. This is why kidney disease is so serious
and so generally fatal.
If you don’t feel as well as you ought, do not neglect your kidneys
another day, but begin at once with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, because
they are special kidney help ; because the genuine Doan’s Pills are made from
pure vegetable roots and herbs, and are therefore reliable and safe for old
and young; because men and women who have been cured tell so earnestly
and sincerely how Doan’s Pills have cured them.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FROM LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. C. Vincent, 147 White Street, Leichhardt,
Sydney, says: “My husband has nothing but good
to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, having
used this remedy with splendid results. Previous
to taking these pills he suffered a lot from backache
and other distressing symptoms of kidney trouble,
such as urinary disorder, dizzy attacks and sleep-
lessness, but could get nothing to do him any good.
A course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, how-
ever, drove the pain out of his back, regulated the
secretions, and made him feel fit and well. His
back used to ache fearfully, the pains being sharp
and shooting, and would strike him right across
the loins. It was impossible for him to stoop or
turn in bed without suffering torture, and he always
felt tired. A friend advised him to take Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and, as before stated, they
cured him completely. We recommend this remedy
with every confidence to other sufferers.”
Mrs. I ineent says, two years later: “My hus-
band’s cure has proved a permanent one, no sign
of kidney trouble having returned since he used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills two years ago.”
FROM PARRAMATTA.
Mr. Walter Niddrie, George Street. Parramatta,
says: "I suffered terribly with my kidneys. . The
worst symptoms were backache and rheumatism.
Sometimes I would be doubled up with the pain,
and unable to do any work. Reading of a similar
case to mine being cured by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, I got some, and before I had used
them long I was quite free of pain. Previous to
taking the pills I would often sit down, and it
would be fully ten minutes before I could get up
again to a standing position. I was unable to stoop
down to lace my boots in the morning, and my wife
would do it for me. I am quite free of backache
and rheumatism now. and I consider that without
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I would have had to
give up my billet.”
Fifteen years later Mr. Niddrie says: “I have
been free of backache and rheumatism since Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me 15 years ago. I
never suffer with my kidneys now, and am in
splendid health.”
Backache
Kidney
Every Picture
Tells A Story"
XT
&
A
■
'#
nu
LiLU
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold at 2/9 per bottle, at all chemists
and stores, or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
“There you are—twenty-five bob.”
“What’s his breeding?” I asked.
“He was got by Drought out of Trap-
yard,” said Lord. Somebody giggled..
I looked the animal over from his hoofs
to his back, while I wondered what the
seller would be asking for an old saddle ; I
drove the quadruped round and scrutinised
him fore and aft. while I mentally fumbled
about for a bridle to put on the brute. At
last I made a desperate plunge.
“I’ll give you a pound for him,” I said.
“Take him, take him !” said Lord, and as
lie walked across the yard he lifted his hat
and brushed his- hair back with his hand.
Boyce came into the yard and examined the
bargain at close-quarters. Boyce was con-
sidered a judge.
“A trifle small,” he commented, “but he’ll
fill out, an’ grow a bit, too. Only ,a colt
yet.”
Lord came to the gate. “What’s his age,
Mr. Lord?” I asked.
“I don’t know exactly,” ho. replied, “but
I don’t think he’s much over nine.”
“I knew he wasn’t very old,” said Boyce.
“A ’orse is just in his prime at nine. I
reckon he’s well worth a pound.”
We commenced breaking in at once; that
is, we captured our purchases with ropes, in-
dulged in some weird and whirling exercise
behind them for a time, and left them in
tackle for the night.
Next day the civilising process was con-
tinued with mixed results. Lord Brumby—
by Drought, out of Trapyard—turned out a
very docile animal, and I had the satisfac-
tion of riding him bareback round the yard
in the afternoon. Such is the .benefit of in-
specting well before buying. When we had
pulled his superabundant tail and combed
out his superfluous mane, he didn’t look at
all bad. In fact, with his ears stiffened a
little and his sides inflated, Lord Brumby
would have looked worth a couple of pounds
anywhere.
The black colt sulked from the beginning,
and by this time he was a most deplor-
able quadruped. His mouth was cut and
bleeding, his lips swollen to the size of six ;
he had two black eyes, and there were lumps
on him and lumps knocked off him. He
leaned back in the corner with his forelegs
spread out and his head down. Stahmer
pulled his head this way and that way ; but
nothing else of him would come with it,
barring a grunt.
“Calls himself a horse-breaker!” said
Lord. “He wants three months.”
Harry’s big bay -was a different character.
He was a defiant animal, and had Harry
thoroughly cowed. He didn’t allow the deaf
gentleman in the same yard with him, his
vicious proclivities being distressingly evi-
dent. Harry walked round outside, with a
bag on the end of a long stick, with which he
bashed the rebel whenever he got a chance.
Harry was a good-tempered, patient person,
and persistence eventually wore the outlaw
into submission.
On Friday the horses were considered
quiet enough to go on the track, and arrange-
ments were made to start after dinner. I
still wanted a saddle to complete my equip-
ment. Lord brought out several from a
lumber room, and the groom swept the oust
and cobwebs off them. They ranged trom
80s. down to five. I examined the five-
shilling article, , ,
“Will you take three bob for it? I asked.
It was in an advanced state of disrepair.
Lord made a gesture of impatience.
“If it’s not worth five bob it’s worth noth-
ing,” he said. “It’s not worth arguing over.
George, who was mooching around with
some straps and pieces of bridle-rein m one
hand and a rusty bit in the other, signalled
approval and intimated that I wouldn t
have to buy a bridle, as he was seeing to
that. So the deal was completed. After all,
a horse, saddle and bridle for 2os. wasn t
CXCGSSiYG.
All hands on the place, including several
ladies, assembled to see the start. Harry
and Stahmer packed their colts, and led
them around as a preliminary. There was
very little life left in the black one. He rolled
from side to side with his head down; now
and again he spread out his front legs and
groaned in protest. The ladies said “Poor
brute!” severally and unanimously, whilst
Mr. Lord remarked that the other brute
ought to get six months.
Harry mounted his old chestnut and
essayed to start. The colt pulled back and
dragged him off. Then the brute heaved the
pack on to a pile of raw horse-hides that had
just been unloaded, smashed through a gate
and bolted to the bottom corner of the home
paddock. When we had'brought him back
Lord claimed him for damages. While inter-
est centred in the argument, Stahmer pulled
the black colt down the track as one might
drag a log. Boyce actively assisting in the
rear. Harry snent half an hour trying to
mend the gate ; then he paid 10s. in requital.
He got on again with an injured air, request-
ing me to form a rearguard to prevent fur-
ther damage and to accelerate his departure,
and we left Eurombah.
Lord Brumby, tractable and pacing in fine
style, gave George an expression of beaming
satisfaction. The tittle brown hack, he said,
was a credit to my judgment.
Our road hugged the Dawson River, and
while passing along the edge of a steep bank
the black colt pulled back and tumbled over.
He turned a dozen somersaults and landed
on his baek in a muddy hole, where he lay
half covered with water.
When we had recovered from this shock
we found Harry spread out in the grass, and
the bay colt bucking into the bush, scattering
old shirts, pants, tinware and blankets as he
went. Harry scrambled to his feet, clawed
some dry herbage from his hair, and collected
his pipe and hat.
“See my horse anywhere?” he inquired
dejectedly. The rebel had got into a hollow.
“I can hear him,” said Boyce. “Can’t you
see him?”
Harry rubbed several parts of his anat-
omy. “ ’S a strong ’orse that,” he reflected.
I went in pursuit of the runaway, whilst
the others unpacked the black colt and lifted
him up. Between shoving and dragging and
belting they got him to the top. Harry did
some more collecting, and we camped.
It was the last camp for the black colt.
During the night he caught his hobbles
against a stump, and, turning over, broke
his stiff neck.
From here we had a short ride to Hornet
Bank. We must have oeen something un-
usual in the way of travellers, for half a
dozen women gathered on the verandah and
stared at us.
Boyce and I endeavored to pass on, but the
pack-horse and the spare one objected. They
split up and ran back. Lord Brumby had
no idea of stockwora, so the onus of blocking
and driving devolved upon me. I raced
towards the fence to block the pack-horse.
The old mare I bestrode propped at the
fence and slewed sharply. The girth broke,
and I and the saddle dropped on to the
fence and thence straggled to the ground.
A boisterous laugh from Harry—who was
yarning with Stahmer a little way back on
the road —w-as followed by a merry ripple
from the women.
While we were repairing the breakage we
became suddenly aware of something like a
tornado rushing along. It was Harry’s
mutinous bay. He went flying through the
timber, leaving bits of the pack hanging to
branches. When we saw the last of him on
a far ridge he was stripped of his burden;
Harry was riding hard on the lean chestnut
to keep the outlaw in sight, and Stahmer
was running laboriously behind him to
gather up the pieces.
George and I were half an hour fixing
things up, and then we started again. The
pack-horse turned into a little pen at the
side of a cottage, to the accompaniment of
shrieks from the audience. I dismounted
and dragged the cantankerous thing out. and
Boyce flung a sliprail at it, which turned its
head in the right direction. We passed
through the yards and came to a waterhole.
There we provided more entertainment free
of charge. The pack-horse seemed to think
that his only mission in the world was to
circumnavigate that waterhole. He circum-
navigated it 20 times. Then Boyce met him
with a sapling, which changed his opinions,
and he went well till we reached the river
crossing. Right in the middle of it he lay-
down and rolled with the pack. We stopped
on the other side to unroll our drenched
swags, and spread the contents over the land-
scape.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Muritai.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
£ ? HE hills walk down; the green leaves
/ sing;
£ The dusty road goes twining hy,
A little -frayed and saffron string
Which binds the heart to Muritai.
Drowsily the yellow sea-beach whispers to
the dreaming hours,
Like a plot of golden daisies girdled with
white water-flowers;
Sweetly blow the sea-foam lilies crisping
round the mellow place,
Whiter than the clouds of noon-time, falling
into folds of lace;
Taler than the soft compassion which the
gipsy bosom feels
For the bond-slaves of the city tethered to its
turning wheels.
Here ,the thought goes on and onward like a
galleon running free,
Chaste as are the white-foam lilies; level as
the leagues of sea.
Freed from creed and all unhindered by the
ruling of the street,
Where the hands of king and custom weld
the chains about the feet;
Vagrant from the narrow radius, swinging
from the ordered mark,
Where the circle of all being spins between
the dawn and dark.
Muritai! The very name is muted music on
the lips,
Scribed upon the stave of Beauty to the time-
beat of the ships,
Passing inward, questing outward, waking
blossoms at the prow,
Newer flowers to grace the garlands brave
upon the harbor brow.
Laughing maid who braids her tresses when
the deep-sea stranger comes,
Wallowing in between the islands with a
sound of muffled drums.
Roaring seas and wrenching tide-rip, welter-
ing within the straits,
Racking at the God-burred rivets fastening
the outer gates;
Strides the brutal, blatant ice-gale slouching
from the farthest south,
Smashing with a fist of horror full upon the
city’s mouth.
Still amid her maze of magic raptured by her
jewelled joys,
Muritai smiles through the storm-drift, like a
child among her toys.
Muritai! A tone of beauty soft within the
harbor’s throat,
Like a satin-gowned contralto dwelling on
her broadest note!
All the droon of midnight waters where the
deep-drowned planets burn,
All the silver tunes of tide-drift rippling
down from strake to stern,
Violins among the reed-lands, wistful as a
plainting bird,
Chime upon the ear of Fancy at the breath-J
ing of a word.
What though all the stress of being swing the j
thought to coarser things,
And the gipsy feet must ever feel the city’s!
leading strings,
Never can the voice of commerce, strident in
the dusty mart,
Still the music ringing, ringing on the harp
strings of the heart;
Muritai, from out the flower-ways, whispers
past the gliding ships,
Like a gentle kiss of childhood on the
bor’s wrinkled lips.
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offloe—93-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington.
Vlotorlan Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
’vSßbu
fc^w?sak
wskw*
S.B.
COME UP TO
THE SUWSHIHE
SEASON
&»rron Falls - ISarron Gorge
the wonderful hinterland
ounshme, Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and Scenic splendour
A Booklet falling all about tl
Is yours for the asking
Jffff in this coupon •-
fforne ......
AJcfress
> Mb Director of
Intelligence & Tourist bureau
~l.risba.ixe. aUEEN
•yf
S’ XV —>( ,
3£ggspis»>-
S'* I ***
s*®
m
I
?«"< HEALTH
qTJ.CpIHs Broy^g’s
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
the BEST MEDICINE 108
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
anti in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS. and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres t
*22
•280
*303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD,
318 Little Collins St, MELBOURNE.
For Skin Eruptions
and Sores use
Vaseline
TtaU Mark Registered
Oxide of Zinc
Combines the wonder-
ful curative properties
of zinc oxide with the
soothing, healing qual-
ities of “Vaseline” Jelly.
For sale at all chemists
and general stores, in
handy, sanitary tin tubes.
Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
¥k
r.
>«•
w.
f.
<r
rrt
%
i-/ 1
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your .
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so ' WincarniS'’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because * Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10.000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-B&Y.
•Wincarnis? is made in England
by COLEMAN & 00., Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W, ■_
Jttw To Keep jUaltby
Almost everybody requires at times a little medicine, that is at once
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time, act as a general tonic. For these purposes there |is no family
medicine better than Beeeham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beecham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value. Beecham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
Beedtam’s Pills
>.«<
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), 1/I,} (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Reny^ton,
.44 Cal.
Repeating
W'-
v\
s:
A 4
Tlie
Universal
Arm
Proportionate to
their size and power the .44
caliber cartridges are tlie lowest in
price. They are universally used
and will give excellent results with
the Remington UMG .44 caliber
Repeating Rifle.
Write for special descriptive
booklet sent free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D D. BRYANT. Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
HORLICO
MALTED
MILK
FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Mil 1
is more beneficial thar
tea, coffee or cocoa
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par. Ask
for Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
I«VN-
MAITfO
IjlOli £1 6s. 6d.' you cap have The
_IJ Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
M
HIHSNVKSaOM >«« SlWMiYiniarcM iTiinimmaJ
«<
mm.
-v
•ar-m
0,
'//
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY or OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.


IMANGROVTTEI
smis
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGKOVITE” Baivhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Relting, is often referred to hv users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowioi,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. C.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
The Mine Manager’s Friend.
The Celebrated “An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Mining Steel.
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
Supplied
in OCTAGON and
CRUCIFORM SOLID SECTIONS,
HEXAGON and ROUND HOLLOW SECTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kaigooriie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
F/BROLITE (Reg.)
FIBROLIT E*(Reg.)
FIBROLITE (Reg.)
FIBROLITE (Reg.)
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
Equal to the Best Imported.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are supplanting plaster, steel anti
wood-linings everywhere, because they
are ~
FIREPROOF & RUSTPROOF,
and WEAR LIKE CONCRETE.
No chipped or cracked walls, no ex-
pensive upkeep costs, with Fibrolite
walla and ceilings. Fibrolite hardens
with age—it lends itself to beautiful
decorative schemes.
Write for booklet and sample to
James Hardie & Co.
Circular Quay West,
’Phone 6239. SYDNEY.
WOLFE’S
.. ' 1
Acts directly and
pleasantly upon
un mt
unnuvt fttn
IUMIIIIItI Itutij
■muu
tftit •aiitiia ittnit
S’Sd'KJM
*****
Schnapps
ttifi bladder and
th k"d
Tangr/e Portable Lampless Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Department
MILLER'S POINT, SY2NEY.
Handling: the following: High-grade and Well-known Agenciess
TANGYE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers, Pumps of ail descriptions.
TANGYE Suction Gas Plants, Winches, Lifting Jacks, Punching Bears, Chain Hoists, Etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements.
JOHN BUNCLE & SONS Chaffcutters. E.R.B. Separator Engines. E.R.B. Farm Pump Outfits.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines and Cream Separators. GANE Milking Machines.
Interesting descriptive Catalogues of any of above lines Posted Gratis to any address.
m
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine,
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
Profitable to pastoralists;
satisfactory to shearers.
The “Wolseley”—the world’s standard Shearing Machine —gives genuine satis-
faction, and is built properly to meet all conditions and requirements.
For best results —use a “Wolseley.” Obtain full particulars from
DALQETY & COMPANY LTD., Australasian Agents -ALL BRANCHES.
teve* roa -
Sliding back
©ear
UPPER PMLL PIM
TWO CHANGES
/
LARGE CAPACITY
STEADY REST
ADJUSTABLE
TAPER GIBS ,
''v'pO'WEß'.'y^
A %.',o’w
low
I
: ACCICIpNtALLY ’ , J
CHANGES
ms - .*•>/ A'.n I : . FI- C-:»iv CANNOT- rt-’EC AND)*
■“■v’ 1 ' . / , .WO«M AMO WO.RMWHEEI fW /
tONOiTUaIMAL ANl_> >„ ... \ RUN? IN OH. ' /
KSH
fVh D i nAr '° •
i;r°
. £&obti
When Tiihe and cut
important figures in your costs
it pays to instal
-, v” % t -''’L' ‘.5, ; . *
Modern Machine-Shop Equipment
We have in stock for immediate delivery Modern Machine Tools designed to
handle to-day’s work under to-day’s conditions. Tools designed to increase
your output and reduce your costs.
High-speed Engine Lathes, Universal Milling Machines, Universal
Grinders, Drilling, Shaping, Screwing and Sawing Machines.
Write for Catalogue and Prices or call and inspect.
&
LTD.,
engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ECONOMY, DURABILITY, EASY STARTING.
You want these FEATURES in your OIL ENGINE;
If you are wise you will insist on having them,
and you get them in the
HOOE OIL ENGINE
ECONOMY—Because you use commonest-grade Kerosene—about % pint per B.H.P. per hour. No Magneto, no Bat-
teries, no Blow-iamp, no Wiring. Also you vary the consumption to suit load.
DURABILITY—The Engine is solidly built of BEST MATERIALS to withstand years of wear.
EASY STARTING —Two or three turns of handle and it starts up from cold on kerosene.
Manufactured by N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
