

DEWAB’S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 10*7 KZen/fc Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secondhand Plants always available.
t.S.u
V
«2C»
73^
<: OcCt/ance,
ON ALL CLASSES o/° SECURITY /]
BILLS DISCOUNTED "
EASY TERMS G LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.6XC? LTP
HEAD OFFICE: 74 CASTLE RE AG H ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Ruilding.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Syaney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
Sticaf* IN OR
Outdoors
COMPORT
Try our
PATENT BSD
FOR HOTELS
PLATS, AND
Bungalows
REVOLVES IN
. 22 INCHES.
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO.,
380 GEORGE ST (near g.po.), SYDNEY.
m
mm
.Hutron’s
HamdA Bacorv
/ &
CHUBB'S
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J
m
for INDIGESTION
ant/ DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
m
m
m
m
m
A
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
mm
••Not the same as others*”
MALTHOID is IQO% efficient.
A well-known firm of architects writes: “We have used Reinforced Malthoid
extensively, and have found it A USEFUL AND EFFECTIVE MATERIAL for Flat
Roofs, Floors of Verandahs, Balconies and the like.”
Fume-proof, spark-proof, weather-proof—-and perfect in EVERY RESPECT.
Write for sample and booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
m
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
extra
SPECIAL
s.v. o
GftbertZodge* Co
GLOBE PNEUMATIC RIVETERS,
DRILLERS, and PNEUMATIC TOOLS OF ALL KINDS.
WE HAVE BTOCKS ON HAND.
109 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
115-117 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
3PALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
tho Pfggll Clflnra-g
FRF7QMF
LAVENDER
The Bulletin
V01.38.—N0. 1939. J
[Thursday, April 12, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


S.O
Os'
\22
>scs
*ss^
tf&k
-
*
*r
'CTSV
Siris Cut Gold Bars
A High-grade Virginian Tobacco that will
not bite the tongue.
Specially Prepared and Packed in Hermeti-
cally-sealed lib. and Jib. Tins, which ensures
delivery in perfect condition.
lib. Tins, 8/-; Postage, lid.
J4lb. Tins, 4/-; Postage, 6d.
An Ideal Smoke for the Troops Abroad. We
Pack as per G.P.O. Regulations FREE, and
forward same on receipt of address and P.N'.
value 9/- for lib., or 4/7 for %lb. tins.
~A Sample 2oz. Tin forwarded anywhere Post Paid for 1/2.
A. KEBBLEWHITE, Cigar & Cigarette Merchant,
“The Old Established House,” 19 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from Indigestion very often become faddists as regards their foo » >s
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying . ’ ties
Eumenthol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antisept c p l
prevent abnormal fermentation of the
food, thus allowing the natural digestive
ferments to act, and if taken regularly
after meals they so improve the digestion
that a strict diet becomes unnecessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are most
useful to those who suffer from Heart-
burn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE - TINS, 1/6
Recommended by the Medical World,
vis.:— The Lancet, The Practitioner,
etc. i 2
m.
JU
Yo<£
On
<Zs»~&£
The Red Page
Songs of Protest
Readers are reminded that vers lilre, deal-
ing with some aspect of the war, is wanted
by this page by May 5. A guinea for the best.
MRS. HOOKEY.
Mrs. Jtlookey, drunk and maudlin, with her
hair all hanging wry,
Reeling home to Spicer’s Alley, scandalising
passers-by,
Has been drinking with good reason,
And for once in proper season,
For to-morrow, which is Monday, is the day
Jib’s doomed to die.
Sane and sober Airs. Hookey has no taste
for sordid sin,
But to-night she has been drowning memory
in draughts of gin,
Drowning grief and fear and sorrow,
For by eight o’clock to-morrow.
Him she mothered will be swinging with a
rope beneath his chin.
William Hookey, once a hero, holding lives
of others cheap,
Lies blanch-faced to-night in prison, bleating
like a brain-sick slieap.
Haunted by the hangman’s halter,
And the ghost of her, to slaughter
Whom, God gave him life and strength and
all the vices in a heap.
Sane and sober William lloolcey, with
Death standing by his side,
Views his naked soul with horror, shorn of
all its sordid pride,
All its fond illusion scattered,
All its idols vanquished, shattered, .
God-forsaken, worsted, broken, helpless,
hopeless, stupefied!
Ten more senseless, stupid hours,
Then the prison bell must toll,
For the passing of another
Lonely, misbegotten soul.
Going forth to meet the Unknown,
Branded with the mark of Cain,
Mourned by no one save a mother
Maudlin drunk, yet drunk in vain!
THE BALLAD OF MARY BROWN.
My father was a drunkard,
While my mother was a ■;
lie struck her in his frenzy
Till she died upon the floor,
And my baby face and flayers
With her blood teas sprinkled o'er.
The policemen came and ' took him
While the neighbors strove to see;
They strung him up one morning
That a warning he might be;
And they made of me an orphan ,
But they never thought of me.
* * * *
They gave no thought to Mary,
And ho one mourned but she;
Poor sickly, silly Mary,
Whose wits were all at sea;
Poor orphaned, friendless Mary,
What she might chance to be!
A neighbor took the orphan,
“For the love o’ God," she said,
A poor old widow woman,
And they shared her humble bed,
Till one morning Mary found her
Lying close beside her dead.
»'' * * *
Poor artless, witless Mary,
So destitute of craft;
Poor, foolish, useless Mary
Whom everybody chaffed;
Too simple to be troubled
When the other children laughed.
They told me that God loved me,
And Watched me from on high;
That He was somewhere waiting,
Beyond the distant sky,
To feed and clothe and tend me
When my turn came to die.
They told me she teas gone there
Where all the good folk go,
And yet I saw them weeping,
A nd this as well I know —
They took her to the graveyard
And laid her down below.
They put me out to service
Where my sorrow slowly died,
Till they found that / was bearing,
In innocence and pride,
A babe beneath my. apron,
Which I had no wit to hide.
They spurned me from the threshold,
And I found no place to rest
Till the babe was born one morning,
And nestled at my breast.
And then I took and killed it —
I did it for the best.
But the policeman came and took me,
And people came to see
The judge and jury try me,
That a, warning I might be,
And God knows'when again I shall
Be able to go free —■
To earn my living as I’m told
That women often do.
To be my mother o’er again,
As I’m my father, too.
I wonder what might she have grown,
The baby that I slew?
From “Sonjis of Protest,” by Frederick L.
Mitchell (Erskine Macdonald, Is.)-
Fiction
Edward John Moreton Drax, who is Lord
Dunsany, is one of the most original minds
in English literature. His reputation p a
dramatist is equal to that ol any other
modern English dramatist, and being Lisa
and still in his thirties, Ins career is but
opening; and if he fails to be killed in
war he should easily establish his pre-emin-
ence in the English drama. One ot bis recent
one-act plays is acclaimed m the U.fe.A. a
equal to the masterpieces ot Synge, -but as
Dunsany writes only one-act plays, and our
managers do not care for one-acters, theie is
little chance of Australia seeing the works
of this genius. Dunsany’s Tales of 11 under
(Elkin Mathews, per Dymock’s Library, bs.
(;d. > is merely the diversion of an original
and humorous mind; but the qualities ot
imagination and fantasy in this collection
make it a memorable delight. “these are
tales of peace,” the author says. Ihose
who remember peace and those who will see
it again may be glad to turn their eyes
though but for a moment, away from a woild
of mud and blood and khaki, and to read for
a while of cities' too good to be true. ’
“ ‘Come,’ said the Sultan to his liaslieesh-
eater in the very furthest lands that know
Bagdad, ‘dream to me now of London. And
the hasheesh-eater’s imaginary description ox
London is the most delightful satire yet writ-
ten of the Big Fog, unspoiled by the least
implication that it is a satire. Why the
Milkman Shudders When He Perceives the
Dawn” is the title of another yarn. \Y by
he shudders the reader must be left to dis-
cover for himself —if he can. Of anothei
incredible story the author supplies various
theories for its truth, but inclines to the most
plausible—“that that grizzled man (who told
the story) is a liar.” Another story deals
with the remarkable adventures of a pirate
ship that sailed, on wheels, right across the
Sahara, and after a series of impossible hap-
penings escaped from the pursuing cavaliy.
Captain Shard, the indomitable pirate cap-
tain, came straight out of Veter Van. Dun-
sany guarantees the veracity of this tale,
since he took care that the sailor who told it
to him was never sober. “The Three Sail-
ors’ Gambit” is the remarkable story of three
drunken sailors who gained a modest liveli-
hood by beating all the chess champions m
the world by means that the reader will be
excited to discover. “And in the end one day
when all three were drunk they played the
best player in England with only a row or
pawns. They won the game all right.’ But
something happened
“The Exiles’ Club” exemplifies Dunsany s
eerie power of evoking by a mere suggestion
a sense of over-powering awe —a power 'that
gives his plays such a divine shudder. He
begins by reminding us of the fate of the
forgotten gods, the dynasties that have been
dethroned in heaven and now are outcast.
“Between what Zeus has. been once and the
half-remembered tale he is to-day there lies
a space so great that there is no change ot
fortune known to man whereby we may
measure the height down which lie has fallen. ’
And he is invited by a dethroned king
to dine at the Exiles’ Club. There, in a gor-
geous palace in London, he meets all the de-
throned monarclis of the world; but to his
surprise the dinner is held in the basement
of the building. He wondered why these
kings chose the cellar, and asked why they
did not go upstairs, up the broad stairway
of rare marble. A king gasped out that they
could not go upstairs. And the guest was
enlightened when one of the hosts informed
him that they were not members of the club;
they were the waiters! “Then who are the
members?” he asked. “Such a hush fell at
that question," such a hush of genuine awe,
that all of a sudden a wild thought entered
my head, a thought, strange and fantastic
and terrible, ... I left that club very swiftly
indeed, never to see it again, scarcely paus-
ing to say farewell to those menial kings, and
as I left the door a great window opened far
up at the top of the house and a flash of
lightning streamed from it and killed a dog.”
That’s all.
“The Three Infernal Jokes” is the eeriest
joke of all. By disconnecting the telephone
wires and connecting them to the lightning-
conductor, a man is able to ring up Hell.
He just asks for “Hell,” which apparently is
too well known to need a number. In ex-
change for a virtue which he doesn’t need
he receives from Hell “three jokes which
shall make all who hear them simply die of
laughter.” What happens when he tells the
first joke to a dinner-party of his friends and
what happens when he is on trial for murder
and tries the second joke on the Court....
may be left to the reader’s curiosity.
Jack Lait deserves notice. He is the bloke
who contributes a complete short story every
day to the Chicago Herald —and goes on
doing it! He totals 75,000 words each
month, divided into from 30 to 35 stories, and,
his editor adds, “each with a plot, a theme,
cameo-cut characters, seductive introductions
and crashing climaxes.” Lait must average
about 2500 words per diem, counting Sundays
and Thanksgiving. Though this daily aver-
age of words is not beyond the capability of
any busy Australian journalist or expert
free-lancer, the fact that Lait is turning out
original stories puts him in a class by him-
seif. Beef, Iron and Wine (Doubleclay, Page,
N V Sydney Book Club) consists of a
selection of? presumably, the best of the
author's work —32 stories, say, a niontn s
work. Lait is cute enough to take , a picture-
esuue character like the burglar, Cha t lie the
Wolf ” or “The Canada Kid,” and build half
a dozen storiettes about him, some ot which
are mere incidents; but the majontj of these
stories run full sliort-story length as laid
down by O. Henry. That name has been
advisably chosen, tor if O. Heniy left any
successors, Jack Lait is liis .eldest .son anil
heir. Yet though Lait is indebted to U.
Ilenry for his formula, his matter is obvi-
ously his own nnd obtained first-hand. And
the best of Lait stands comparison with U.
Henrv The brilliant craftsmanship of lhc
Septagon” but adds to its underlying truth.
Alec was a reporter, and one day found o
Hinp staring liim in the t&cc* ** be
found out was that if he could construct
dramatic stories, or correlate interesting mm-
dents with sequence, a moving-picture com
pa nv would pay him for them it be pie
seated them written on one s«le ; of th|
miner.” Alec asked the old repoi ter Billings
where he could get those dramas, those un-
usual stories. Billings told him the tuck
wasn’t to get the stones: it was to see them.
“The world is alive with wonderful, un-
told drama and pathos and tragedy and
comedy and romance and moving-picture
scenarios.. ..Some wise-cracking copy-reader
of olden days said there were only se\tn
original plots. Those seven plots have been
S into 700,0tX1,000,000 tnej-tl here
must have been as many as that 1
nearly that many myself. Aow then, wlieie
are they? Everywhere. They aru wherever
you can see them, if you have the sight.
Develop that 100 k... .Everybody is mixed
up in one of those seven plots. He has to
be There are only seven. He can t get
out of one—-except to stumble into another.
So Alec set forth to find those seven plots.
1-Ie saw various things on the street, exam-
ined each incident, decided that there was
no scenario in it, and, returning, told Bil
ings all that he had seen. Billings meieiy
asked him which one he was going to write
first. “You were gone 60 minutes, and in
that 60 minutes you have circumscribed the
entire septagon of human emotions. Xou
have been an eyewitness and an evesdroppei
to the seven primary plots. ... JNeed.ana
Greed, Courage and Fear, Vice and Sacri-
fice. and the ace of trumps, Love. ... ton
couldn’t find a story there. Shakespeare
took the same combination and built me
Merchant of Venice . Dickens took the same
combination and built Oliver Twist. U.
Henry took the same combination and wrote
himself into heaven. You saw the modern
prototype of Lazarus. You saw David slay
the newsboy Goliath. You saw the Mag-
dalen, and vou, who were not without sin,
cast the first sneer. You saw Bill bikes
and you saw Nancy. You saw Camille and
vou saw Sappho and Carmen and Katinkn
Maslova, and the rag and the bone and the
hank of hair, and Anne of Austria and Little
Nell, and you heard Elsie Ferguson in Out-
cast.” The rest of the story is just story,
but a delightful story.
There are other stories as enticing; there
is one built on the tlieorum that "many a
girl has been presented with silk stockings
when what she needed was' flannel under-
wear.” There are stories of the theatre—-
and Jack Lait knows everything theatrical
from the chorus-girl to “props,” about taxis
and about newspapers, seen from the city
editor’s desk. Inky Wayfarers will be inter-
ested and amused, especially by “Pics. ’ The
advice of this page is for the general reader
to skip the stories in slang; he will find
enough amusement and human nature in the
others.
Mahomet
G. M. Draycott’s study of Mahomet,
Founder of Islam (Seeker, per Sydney Book
Club, 145.) arrives at an appropriate
moment: Australia is interested in the
founder of the religion that it made the
acquaintance of nt Anzac. Mahomet’s rise
to power savors almost of the miraculous,
but the key to his supremacy is to be found
in his character. A poor youth.. he made
an excellent marriage with a widow who
was fair and 40, but Mahomet was 35 before
he emerged into any prominence. Then it
was only to take a leading part,. as a re-
spected citizen of Mecca, in rebuilding the
sacred building, the Kaaba. And he was
40 years old before he . began to conceive
himself as a prophet with a n w mission.
His doctrine was simple : ‘There is no ‘ God
but God”—a protest against the idolatry
that surrounded him. He started by con-
verting his wife and his own household. But
at the end of four years only 40 converts had
been made. Persecution followed. So far
Mahomet’s career closely resembles that of
the late Chidley. But Mahomet was pre-
pared to fight for his religion. . Stoned in
his own city, he left it with his band of
converts fop Medina; and. with the death of
his first wife, he began his policy of uniting
his adherents to him by useful marriage
alliances. A full list of Mahomet’s wives
would take up too much space. At Medina
Mahomet slowly acquired the position of the
temporal head of a community, and, in time,
tlie leader ui a political State. In order to
spread his faith he had to become rich and
powerful; so he took to bushranging as a
profession, sending out expeditions against
the rich caravans of his enemies. Growing
more powerful he expelled the Jews from
Medina, and the Bedouin tribes were eager
to make aliancSs with this new warrior
chief. By now, however, he had stirred up
his old enemies at Mecca to a realisation
of this menace to their lives. In the first
'battle Mahomet had come off victorious, but
in the second Mahomet was defeated, and
with a remnant of his forces was allowed to
withdraw into the defenceless city of
Medina. The other tribes swept down upon
the embryo State, and it was only when he
had murdered or exiled every Jew and car-
ried out repeated campaigns against the
desert tribes that he was able to make head-
way again. Henceforth his weapon was the
sword and the assassin’s dagger.
It is curious to note that the restrictive
regulations for women that characterise
the faith were purely the result of his own
personal desires for the regulation of his
own polygamous household. Not only was
he a warrior and a prophet, but a much-
married husband. And as every one of his
wives he regarded as peculiarly inviolate, he
could not allow them to go abroad freely,
decked in lxis ornaments, to become a mark
for every envious glad eye.
A further war resulted in his final triumph
against the inhabitants of Mecca; this battle
is known as the War of the Ditch, since it
is the first record of the use of trench-war-
fare. And ultimately he was strong enough
to make a pilgrimage with his host to Mecca
and return unmolested. Followed his tri-
umphal peaceful entry as overlord into
Mecca. And embassies conveying their homage
arrived from all parts of Arabia. Hence-
forth his record is that of a conqueror. One
wonders what chance Mahomet would have
had if he had lived in. Australia, and what
Chidley would have done if he had had
Mahomet’s chance in Arabia V Doubtless the
shades of those two prophets will have much
to compare and discuss, in the intervals of
eternity. Chidley, of course, had one advan-
tage over Mahomet; the latter could neither
read nor write. Yet his renderings of his
visions were collected to form the Koran
after his death. His visions were of great
use to him* foT he laid down his laws in
successive suras, and when it was pointed
out to him that a later sura contradicted an
earlier one, he produced a sura that laid
down the useful provision since adopted by
the telephone-books, notifying all believers
that the latest verse, when it contradicted
an earlier one, must be regarded as cancel-
ling all previous issues.
Arabia was ripe for the rise of a strong
political leader. With Mahomet the national
feeling of Arabia was born, and only -when
his successors dreamt of world-conquest did
Mahommedanism come to ruin. What
Mahomet could not achieve by force he
attempted to gain by cunning. He gave to
Arabia its first written and social code. “His
wives offend him. and he forthwith sets down
the duties and position of women. He de-
sires the wife of his friend, and the result is
a Koranic decree sanctioning the taking of
a woman under those conditions. lb l is
jealous of his younger and more comely asso-
ciates, and thereupon ordains the perpetual
seclusion of women. . . .llis personal courage
was not great, but his strategy and above all
his invincible confidence, which refused to
admit, defeat, were beyond question.’’
Evidently a man.
- » ■
Occasionally these Shakspeare commenta-
tors do make little discoveries. Here is one
so obvious that it seems impossible that it
could have been so long overlooked. In the
casket scene in Merchant of Venice Portia
wants Bassanio to choose the lead casket.
Being a woman she drops him a hint about
as heavy as a pound of lead. “Let music
sound while he doth make his choice,’’ she
asks. What is"the song that follows?
Tell me, where is fancy bred,
Or in the heart, or in the head?
How begot, how nourished f
Reply, reply.
It is engender’d in the eyes,
With gazing fed.
What do all those rimes suggest but lead?
And in the song, which has, of course, been
selected by Portia for the assistance of the
likeliest suitor, the music would probably
emphasise that rime. If such a device hadn’t
given Bassanio the hint, no doubt Portia
would have dropped the leaden casket on his
toe. She was that sort of woman.
“Iota” protests: Let us hope that after Billjim has
fought a thousand years _he may really deserve the
high compliment paid him by an English colonel:
“The Anzacs have got to be such damned fine
soldiers that they resent extravagant praise and
object to having it insinuated that they are better
than their British comrades-in-arms.” In the mean-
time it is interesting to note that the most unfavor-
able criticisms of the British soldiers have come
from some Australians. We adore the fighting
Anzae but the talking Anzac very often makes one
wonder —regretfully —why the dear Lord made so
many Australians without a sense of humor or
proportion. , , ,
Thomas Atkins starts with the advantage or
belonging to a world-famous firm, so there is no
need for him to boost, and —keep on boosting: then
he is a “sport,” and seldom (if ever) stooPfM
belittling the Overseas men (considering that kina
of thing “damned bad form”), while, if he suffers
from swelled-head he conceals the fact as caretuuy
as most “Antis” hide their real reason for voting
“No.”


m
ANTHONY HORDERNS for
Clemak Safety Razors.
THE CLEMAK is England’s best Safety Razor of the popular type. It is simple
and unique, possessing every feature that stands for efficiency and satisfaction.
THE CLEMAK provides a fresh blade for every day of the week —no intricate
adjustment is needed —and is one of the few razors that can be cleaned without
removing the blade.
It is chin comfort to use THE CLEMAK, and the truest economy to buy one.
The self-adjusting features of THE
CLEMAK make it the simplest Safety
Razor to use.
THE CLEMAK BLADE has marvel-
lous edge-retaining properties, which,
after long service, may be revived
with an ordinary sty-op.
With THE CLEMAK there is no
scraping, no forcing—just the simple
continued inoVemeiit that leaves behind
it a smooth skin, freed from the beard.
m
COMBINATION OUTFIT, as illustrated, containing Patent Automatic
Stropping Machine, superior Velvet Hide Strop, with Clemak and
12 Specially-selected Blades 10/6
By Post, 6d. extra. Other States, Bd. extra.
Silver-plated Clemak Razor, with Stropping Handle and Seven Blades, 5/-
By Post, 3d. extra.
ANTHONY HORDERNS for
Ardath Cabinet Cigars.
ARDATIi CABINET CIGARS are .iustly popular for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of Selected Tobacco,
uniform in Quality, and contain only a minimum of nicotine.
ARDATII CABINET CIGARS are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced Cigars. They are made under perfect conditions, and combine every
point of excellence demanded by the Cigar connoisseur.
ARDATII CABINET CIGARS Nos. 444 and 666 can only be obtained at
the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are Cigars that will be smoked with
appreciation by the most critical. We recommend these Cigars with confidence.
A RDAT 11 CIGARS are packed
in artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted
with a spring catch, and make an ideal
present for any man. Our unique
system of spot cash trading enables
ns to sell these High-grade Cigars at
prices which offer absolutely the best
value in the land.
Box 25 50 100
No. 444 ... 8/6 16{6 32/6
No. 666 ... 11/6 22/- 42/6
POSTAGE—Box of S 5 : X.S.W., 6(1.
other States, Sd. extra. Box of 50
N.S.W.. 9d.; other States, 1/2 extra.
mM, • i 1
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST OF TOBACCO, CIGARS "AND SMOKERS’
REQUISITES. POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
ANTHONY HORDERNS for
Billiard Tables s Requisites
NOTHING is BETTER than a GAME of BILLIARDS in Y Oil It OWN
HOME to RELIEVE the TEDIUM of the LONG WITTER EVEMNGS, The
TABLES ENUMERATED have the DISriNCI ADVANTAGE of SLR\ ING
DUAL PURTOSE of DINING TABLES and BILLIARD TABLES They
•ire rivide liv EXPERT WORKMEN, and the SAME amount of SKILL is
exercised in-their construction as in FULL-SIZED BILLIAltl) TABI^ES.
RTTTTAKn tARTFS as illustrated, Fumed Queensland Maple 01 Oak, toui did. oiaic
Cloth, Indianibber Cushions, Brass-mounted Pockets; complete with Ihiei Balls,
Marking Board, Chalk, llules, etc.-
RB
Size. Price.
Oft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in. — £lB/10/-
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. 1()in. — £22/10/-
Bft. 4iu. x 4ft. 4in.,
six sin, legs. £3O
9ft. « r >in. x sft..
six "tin. legs, £37/15/-
Billiard Tables, as above,
hut without leaves —
Oft. fin. x 3ft. 4in. —
£l6/10/-
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. 10in., £2O
Sft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with
six sin. legs, £25/10/-
9ft. x sft., with six
6in. legs, £33
COMBINED BILLIARD and DINING TABLES, fitted
with semi-automatic Taft and Adjusters—
Size, Gft. 4in. x oft. 4in £2O
Size, 7ft. 4in. x 3ft. 10in £24
Size, Sft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with four Gin. legs.. £32
Size,
Size, 7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin £l6
Size, Sft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in £2l
BILLIARD BALLS.
Set of 3.
Set of o.
Benzoline., full size <• • • 42/6
Benzoline. Ifin 47/6
Bonzoline, Ifin “4/-
Bonzoline, 2in ,
Compo., full size 20/-
Compo., Ifin 11/-
Compo., l£in 147-
Set of 22.
Benzoline Snooker-Pool Balls, ,
2 1-1 Gin £l5
Compo., ditto. 1 Jin 95/-
Compo. ditto, l|in £5/10/-
Compo., ditto, 2in £7/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS for
Waltham Watches
m
WALTHAM WATCHES. RENOWNED
the WORLD OVER for their ACCURACY,
STRENGTH nrnl DURABILITY, are
STILL VERY POPULAR with men who
require a WATOII with RELIABLE
TIME-KEEPING POWERS.
By PURCHASING a WALTHAM at
the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM you will
not only obtain a DEPENDABLE YV ATCH
but will SAVE MONEY through the agency
of ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS
LOW PRICES.
Gentleman’s Royal Waltham Watch, Engine-turned Case. Nickel Movement..
17 Jewels, Gold Settings, exposed Pallets, Compensation Balance. Adjusted
to temperature. Patent Brequet Hair Spring and Patent Micrometric Regu-
lator.
Sterling Silver Hunter
Gold-filled Hunter Case
Gold-filled Open Face
Gentleman’s Lever Waltham Watch, Engine-turned Case, fully Jewelled
exposed Pallets. Cut Expansion Balance. Patent Brequet Hair Spring. Gold
Centre Wheel and Jewel Settings. A Watch that will stand rough riding.
Sterling Silver Hunter
Gold-filled H nter Case
10-Carat Gold Hunter
10-Carat Gold Hunter. Open Face
14-Carat Gold Hunter
14- Gold Hunter, Open Face
15- Gold Hunter. Open Face
.. . 70/-
. .. 90/-
£9/2/6
£B/12/6
£ll/11/-
£lO/16/6
£l4
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


LOOK OVER A
RM
0
%
>r
AND YOU WILL
FIND NOTHING
OVERLOOKED.
That’s what has made the reputa-
tion of Winchester Rifles, aside
from their-own peculiar and suc-
cessful construction. The system
being all right, the next thing is to
make them right. This the Win-
chester people have always done.
They spend large sums of money
in testing materials, in inspecting
and gauging parts, and in testing
finished guns for manipulation and
shooting, so when the gun reaches
you—it’s a perfect shooting iron
There are Winchester Single Shot
Rifles, Repeating Rifles and Auto-
matic Rifles, and you can get
them in various calibers suitable
m
FOR ALL KINDS OF HUNTING
Brush Your Teeth
After Lunch
Brushing your teeth after lunch is
as important a part of your daily
life as bathing. Equally impor-
tant is the form of a cleanser
used.
Do not allow particles of food
to lodge between your teeth and
remain there until dinner time.
For your teeth’s sake brush them
after luncheon with either
fit«T4
4 tic«ul,ifv!f'g
mjwM
\*m Wmml
THE BRCAW /
ywet 25civn
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
Some people prefer dental cream, but in gratifying this
preference, the value of using a Tooth powder frequently
should not be overlooked. Dr. Lyon’s toothpowder is a
super-cleanser whose use is essential through frequent
applications to keep the teeth in perfect condition.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
\
I.W. IM
rtfftct:
mp of
£#s «» **
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded gs “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
FEDERAL LORRIES =
IKT
m
ffS Sag g
=3=3
3&2
Have Stood the Test
FEDERAL LORRIES-arc not made for pleasure—they are built
for business —for hard'jobs—for service.
Almost all of the leading automobile and tyre manufacturers own
one or more FEDERALS.
They know good motor-lorries —because their own business is allied
with the motor industry.
The successful record of the FEDERAL and of the FEDERAL
Company's great strength and reliability were factors in the selection of
this, the leading motor-lorry.
Five capacities —1 ton* If ton, 2 ton, 3f ton, and
5 ton. Worm Drive exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AUENTS-
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
L 5
Calvert's
Ointmerd
is just what you may
want any time, any day
a healing, soothing,
antiseptic ointment.
Keep a supply by you ready
for cuts, scalds, scratches and
chafed or sore skin.
In cases of insect bite, piles,
eczema, or ripgworm it has
also been proved useful.
Sold by local Stores & Chemists.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
“ I admit it is almost unnecessary to
enlarge upon the great value of
Clements Tonic.”
Thus writes Mrs. LOUISA LEVY, 5 Little Comber St., Paddington,
whose testimony is here published. It is a letter all women should
read about a wonderful medicine.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“Your medicine has played such a great part in keeping me in good health
that I wish to state it publicly.
“Scarcely a day passes without hearing of someone to whom it has done a
wonderful amount of good.
“I had allowed my nerves to get very bad, and I became afflicted with head-
aches, but thanks to Clements Tonic I recovered my usual health and a good
appetite. “I am, yours truly,
“(Signed) Mrs. LOUISA LEVY.”
“I believe that Clements Tonic and good
health go hand in hand together.”
Mrs. KATHLEEN MORRISSEl r , Storekeeper, Woodville Road, Granville,
N.S.W., sends in this letter stating how she was cured of Nervous
Breakdown:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I think your medicine is essential to the human system when it is not in
health, for recently I have benefited so much that I believe Clements Tonic and
good health go together.
“My complaint was nervous breakdown and want of appetite. I could not
touch the daintiest food—but I am better now.
“I can attend to my duties in our store, which I am sure I would have had
to relinquish had your medicine not been used by me.
“(Signed) KATHLEEN MORRISSEY.”
CLEMENTS TONIC is a nerve tonic and blood cleanser of remarkable
power, a safeguard against disease. It is a certain remedy for Bilious-
ness, Wind, Palpitation, Loss of Sleep, Sick Headache, Sluggish Liver,
Weakness, Indigestion or Constipation. Keep it in the house.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
is only one real scientific method of
;ar,ov disease, and that is to wash
There is on!
curing kidney
away the uric
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet, penetrating antisep-
tic The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. ,
It lias the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der* and wherever it touches it washes away
all ’sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self bv getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s—all chem-
ists sell them—and you will, within a very
m
m
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood—like little bits, of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—-the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De AVitt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney c.nd Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres :
•22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE-
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. ,T. Hinton, .Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W .
writes
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that 1
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, 1 do not have the least desire to
smoke : therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“Mv general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action. Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were-caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.” ,
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post yon a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
n
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
mm
RUY the British White Stocking
to-day—“ Jason ” Elite—of all
Drapers.
Try the cooling, skin-soothing effect of this
Jason ’ hot-weather wear, a very special
line bearing the “Jason” Brand, which guarantees
the finest, silkiest “ finish ” ever put on a stocking.
Wear “ Jason ” because of their quality, their entirely
British make, and the satisfaction ensured by the
brand—
Quality Stockings & Socks for Ladies, Children & Men.
IHustration shows the " jason ” Elite Stocking.
Finest woven plain mercerised lisle leg, ankle &
instep and all-wool 3-in. double top. Specially
strengthened wool foot ; ia champagne, black & white.
Drapers and Outfitters everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
JASON HOSIERY CO., LEICESTER, ENG.
(70
CELEBRATED
m
S 3
*5
*
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Coras Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings. Adelaide.
T. L Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co . Merchants, Hobart [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
m
To suffer with fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple- habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
mm
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS*
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GR EAR, 287-288, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E.GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen). Ltd., 6B Deansgate Arcade. Manchester. England.
That Hour.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We glided north on a velvet sea,
Behind us streaming a wake ot yeast;
The coast a banquet of color lay,
And a white moon stared from the pm pie
east.
Your small hands gleamed on the polished
rail, , c
Your gown was silk with the sheen ot
snow; ...
\ ruby burned on your rounded throat
And your cheeks took fire from the sun-
set glow.
The wide-winged birds to their nests hied
home,
In circling flight o’er the slumbrous sea;
Your dark eyes harbored that wonder-light
That once in his life a man may see.
’Twas love, young love, that I saw therein,
For whom I know not, for none per-
chance ;
And now, years after, I see it shine,
And dream of roses and rare romance.
The long waves swayed to the distant shore,
As travellers, weary of foot, may hie,
Their storms behind them, their rest ahead,
All care, and trial, and toil put by.
The west grew grey as we glided north,
And a shadow fell on the purple sea;
And men, grown tired of the day-that-was,
Stretched arms, and welcomed the night-
to-be.
How white you were in the moon’s white
light!
How sweet the poise of your dainty head!
You minded me of a statue shaped
By a master-hand in an age long dead.
Then, landward gazing, you said Adieu !
And left me, looping your snowy gown ;
I see you now as I gaze once more
On the white, still lights of the coastal
town.
N.S.W.
KODERIC QUINN.
Petals.
I. —My Little Songs.
When I am dead—and all men have forgot-
ten—
My little songs will come with tripping feet
And trim the wild weeds that have sprawled
above me
And make the shallow grass-plats smooth
and neat;
And they will whisper through the turf:
“We love thee,
Who gave us life.” And shadowy and sweet
They’ll bring with them the petals of old
roses,
Heart-shapen leaves of July violets,
Each long-spent thing that fancy’s germ
encloses;
Hopes and despairs, desires and regrets;
Glimmer of faces gone, and eyes betraying.
I shall not care, for where the wattles foam
The wind will sweep her subtle fingers, play-
ing
My little songs that left me—safely home!
Ghosts • of old joys—of whom they were
begotten,
My little songs! When all men have for-
gotten.
II. —Wanton.
Is it still living? Warm red flower
Still living on that fickle breast?
Although it has been plucked an hour
And deems itself exceeding blest, .
As proudly on the white it lies....
Ah Rose unwise !
So many roses have lain there,
So many hands caressed her hair.
And asked... .for what she cannot give!
Poor rose. ...upon a grave to live!
The curse of fools upon her lies:
The soul is dead behind her eyes!
Why should I care?
I was the last to place a red rose there!
III. —Tire Broom.
I made a broom of Commonsense —
’Twas bound with yellow rushes.
With all the Spring dried out of them,
And all the green of bushes,
And through and through my heart’s bare
room
I swept my wise and rigorous broom !
Oh. empty is my heart’s shut r< >m —
Xo passion there reposes;
And yet, although my broom held sway
For one determined, restless day,
Somehow.... it could not sweep away
The haunting of the roses!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
You Came to Me.
You came to me, all radiant.... Ah, you
came
When imminent death’s cold pall was o’er
me cast;
And when my hopes were frozen at the last
In bergs of disillusion, like a flame
You burned away my sorrow and my shame,
Till I stood stalwart, laughing at the blast
Whose breath had numbed me through the
sad years past;
And God stooped to me whispering your
name.
The thing I was I never more shall be.
You loosed my bonds, and here I sing your
praise
In freedom, and extol the sweets thereof.
I knew but fear, nor companied with love.
Hate’s thrall w T as I. But on a day of days
The angels kissed you, and you came to me!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


>
s.
/
A
i
s\
<
1
>
k
/
GUARANTEED WATERPROOF
The “Perdriau” is a comfortable roomy waterproof for
constant all-weather wear.
It is full-skirted, which allows the utmost freedom of
action in walking, and has the Raglan shoulders.
Look at the illustration and notice how free the
PERDRIAU is, for both men and women —no dragging
or tightness, yet has a pleasing smartness that must appeal
to you. The materials are proofed with pure Para Rubber
at our own Factory, and the coats are cut and made in our
workrooms by the most skilful waterproof-makers in
the trade.
The “PERDRIAU” is obtainable from
All Stores throughout Australia.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE .PERTH .
BRISBANE .NEWCASTLE
m
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quan f
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Nava.! and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
An Announcement Which Affects
Every Home in Australia.
As the old saying says—
“A good name is better than riches.”
The name “Rex” is a grade mark as well as a
trade mark. I't stands for purity and wholesome-
ness with every housewife. And now comes a
new product—
V,
REX”
Lorraine Sausages
that will call forth fresh praises and add prestige to the “Rex” Brand.
Get a tin from your Grocer to-day and serve a right royal breakfast in the
morning.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages are a nourishing food, retaining all the rich
flavor and juice of freshly-cooked meat.
They are packed in a thick jelly which is converted into a delicious gravy
when heated.
Place the tin in boiling water for 20 minutes-mnd the meal is ready —piping
hot.
mm
As an emergency dish,
“REX”
Pork Sausage
has few equals. You
can have a hot meal
ready in a jiffy with
their aid.
Other “Rex” Canned
Delicacies are: —
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Kex” Veal & Tongue
Pate.
“Rex” Pork & Beans,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues,
in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues,
in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues, in
jelly, 11 & 21b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in
jelly, lib. tins.
“R ex” Luncheon
Cheese, in ooz. decor-
ated tins.
“R ex” Luncheon
Cheese, in ooz. En-
amel Jars.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for
cooking purposes, in
lib. prints.
NCH
EON
Ml
V. EM
“REX”
puncheon Choose
on bread or bis-
cuits is the finish-
ing touch to a good
dinner. It aids
digestion.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Germs Banished
mm
by
The ABBOT Filter.
YOU INSURE YOUR LIFE
Why not
INSURE YOUR HEALTH?
Secure the Safety of Your Quests and Family.
Write for Illustrated Folder to the Manufacturers
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
Continually Being* Improved,
Standards of Construction Steadily Raised.
Tlie Dodge Brothers Car is hasicaUy the same car as it was two
years ago.
Vet there is not a bit of doubt but that it is a better car.
The car of to-day is worth more money than the car of two years
ago.
The standards of construction have been steadily raised—the
shop practice made steadily finer.
DALQETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 3 . Xo. 1!)39.
THU USD AY, APUIL 12, 1917.
Pkxce 6d.
WINNING THE WAR.
[DAVID LOW, BULLETIN Office, Melbourne.]


The Bulletin.
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the AVliitc Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, tor The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office oi the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER*.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can hare Inn
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per
an num.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
lniblishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short laics
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tiie Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn — will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
II.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
L7.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and.
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal. : Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 '63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Peskier Street,
llong Kong.
Ceylon.—IE. G. P. Percra, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samurai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., Id.: United Kingdom, All Sea Route. Wo:..
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 8oz., Id.; Slos. to lOoz., 2\d. :
lOoz. to 12oz., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1917.
AUSTRALIAN FREEDOM AND
FOREIGN STEAK.
Pebcival Brookfield, M.L.A. for Broken
Hill, became a national issue for a few
minutes last week. The daily newspapers
made angry remarks about him, the P.L.L.
called upon him to recant, and Hughes sup-
plied a few observations appropriate to the
occasion. Brookfield is the garrulous in-
dividual elected by the Hill in succession to
Cann, and after visiting Sydney to help the
Labor party make itself ridiculous at the
State general elections, he returned to the
place he came from and proceeded to blow
off the hot air which thereabouts passes for
wisdom. Three months ago his yelps
carried no further than the sound of his
voice; but being now a member of the
Assembly the reporters give him a wider
audience. Wherefore it happened that when
they heard him talking about his blood, they
supplied a news item which gave the P.L.L.
a pain and started the Argus nervously
wondering whether Revolution had not
broken out in the middle of the night. The
cause of all the excitement was a proclama-
tion by Brookfield as follows: —
I will not spill one drop of my blood for any flag,
(ho Union Jack included, while millions of people
are allowed to starve and a few allowed to make
profit out of the war; but if any army comes here
to lower our standard of living, i am going to fight
under the red flag to maintain the conditions of life
here.
To call this mouthful of disordered rant a
“dangerous utterance” and throw patriotic
handsprings of protestation seems, in this
paper’s judgment, to be paying quite un-
necessary attention to the sacred cause of
bunkum. Mischievous Brookfield’s cackle
may be; but it is about as dangerous as the
bleat of a straggling jumbuck. On the
Barrier the state of the public mind is such
that blither of the kind is regarded as the
corollary of free speech. Unless somebody
talked in this way Broken Hill, which for
a long time has been quite off its head, would
put its pound a day in its pocket and
imagine itself being ground to dust beneath
the iron heel of oppression. 4 But the noise
has really no more sinister significance than
the sizzling of the safety-valve On a locomo-
tive. Brookfield and his friends belong to
a numerous family of impractical recalci-
trants who want to do something they
cannot explain, and are consumed by an
over-mastering impulse to postpone doing it
while they shatter the atmosphere with
verbal bombs.
There is no arguing with a man like
Brookfield. People of liis type are com-
mon enough in every part of the world, giv-
ing expression in their crude and futile way
to that great conglomeration of human
sentiment born front centuries of misery and
wrong. They have neither realised their
place in a democracy nor cleared their minds
of the superstition that the boot is the most
constructive instrument in government. That
their attitude towards the war should be
compound of the ludicrous and the inco-
herent can surprise nobody. And that they
should he numerous enough at Broken Hill
to have an M.L.A. to speak for them cannot
surprise anybody who knows the constitu-
ency. For years it has heen thinking in
terms of circumstances alien to Australia,
waving the “chains of the proletariat” in
the breeze and howling to the rest of the
continent to arise ;tnd awake. It has been
the happy hunting-ground of every blather-
skite known to Australia for 25 years, and
more damage has heen done there to the
cause of Labor than in any other part of
the Commonwealth. To imagine that such
a place can he taken as a revelation of the
politics, ambitions and thought of Austra-
lian Labor Would be to conceive of Labor
broken and discredited, and no longer an
effective force in moulding the public policy
of the nation. The Australian citizen is
certainly not going to surrender himself and
his country to control by such people.
Official Labor in N. S. Wales made a fool
of itself lately by hobnobbing with Brook-
field at the elections. It has done the
proper thing* now in warning him off the
Labor platform. And there are friends of
his who ought to go with him.
It is no part of an Australian’s job in
life to spill his blood for the Union Jack.
But it is his job to fight for his own country ;
and when Brookfield says he would not
fight under “any flag” he includes the Aus-
tralian flag in the reservations which make
his readiness to fight contingent on there
being no starving millions and no profiteers.
This is not the talk of a patriot. It is the
gas of a humbug. Where are the starving
millions he lias in his mind? And what
have they got to do with Australia'to-day?
How would it help anyone but the enemy if
the countries attacked and menaced by a
brutal military caste had been permitted to
take what they pleased without a kick
because a private profiteer happened to be
in the next street? This banal decision to
start spilling gore only when total strangers
have all heen supplied with steak and
oysters is an awful warning of what may
flourish inside the head of a politician. The
hard facts of the present war are that it
was made upon Australia by an external
enemy; that unless the enemy is defeated
the world will be turned into hell ; and that
the safety of this Commonwealth depends
almost wholly upon the vigor put by other
countries into the defence of their own free-
dom. How many people except the feather-
heads who applaud Brookfield believe that
while the Gniesenau and Scharnhorst were
off the coast of Australia the continent could
have best been defended by drawing the
fires aboard the ships of the Australian navy
and making inquiries about the food supply
at Timbuctoo? Cant concerning the stan-
dard of life and the red flag is of the worst
kind at this moment, for behind it every im-
ported shirker and every Australian un-
worthy of his freedom and liis name can
take a coward's shelter. It is not
because of solicitude for Australia’s standard
of living or pity for starving millions or
because of mere coincidence that the world's
great democracies are together in tin’s war
and that Russia has gone through the fur-
nace of a revolution. Tt is because the very
foundations of freedom are assailed: and
if better men than Brookfield were not
doing something besides talk, those founda-
tions would soon he in ruins—indeed, would
have been in ruins over two years ago.
“WIN-THE-WAR.”
The alleged eagerness of the L’hewsion to
Win the War is being made the hinge upon
which the Federal election must turn; and
it is hoped by a perpetual repetition of the
showy phrase that the present Ministers will
be able t<> hold their jobs. To win the war
is., of course, in every way a desirable thing;
but what, the people have to remember is
that before to-day patriotism has been
employed as the last refuge of —well,
Johnson called them scoundrels. 'Without
necessarily going as far as Johnson went,
let us note that Joe Cook, in liis recent speech
at Parramatta, deplored the fact that, while
the Labor party professed to have an equal
desire to beat the Germans, the greater part
of its manifesto to the electors was taken up
with purely political matters. Now, what
else should such a manifesto be taken up
with? The business of the politician is poli-
tics; and even if some of the proposed
measures are of a highly controversial nature,
that is no reason why the politician should
shirk the job he is paid to do. To say that
the introduction of controversial matters in
Australia will retard the winning of the war
in Europe is to talk obvious nonsense.
Nobody believes it; nobody lias yet ad-
vanced the shadow of an argument why
it should be so. Controversial matters con-
nected with the war have already divided
house against house and street against
street; those which related merely to Aus-
tralian progress and Australian domestic
reform have been quite innocuous by com-
parison. Further, if there is to be no poli-
tical discussion there can be no political
progress, and political progress is necessary
that we may reap the fruits of victory when
the harvest is ripe. For it is quite possible
for Australia to suffer defeat while the
Allied armies are victorious iu the field.
If, in prosecuting the warp we allow our own
domestic affairs to sink into chaos and
refuse to prepare for the years that lie
ahead, even the cheering that heralds a
triumphant entrance into Berlin will find
us in all practical respects a beaten people.
The horror which the thought of pro-
gressive political movement in war-time
provokes in Cook is the best gauge of what
the win-the-war catchword really means.
Until the awful German outbreak in 1914
sent a shudder through the nations, war was
always a Tory weapon in the hands of party
politicians. The idea, which was in the main
a correct one, was that if a small war could
be conducted with a moderate amount of
excitement, the eyes of the nation might be
turned from the pressing reforms which
were needed at home to the doings in the
field. As the chief Tory policy in all lands
had always been to sit still and do as little
as possible, it followed that war was its best
ally. The present conflict has been too awful
to allow even British Tories to regard this
war quite in the old way ; but here in Aus-
tralia, where distance has a softening effect
and the smell of battle, is not perpetually in
our nostrils, the old idea comes to the front
once more. The line of division at the
coming election is, therefore, tolerably clear.
Hughes proposes to win the war by sinking
every other matter affecting the good of
the country; Tudor wishes to win the war
and keep the country moving at the same
time. Hughes’S policy might easily leave
us. iis a nation, defeated when the hour of
victory arrives; Tudor’s plan assures us
that when the Allied triumph does arrive.
Australia, being alive and moving, will
be able to share in the advantages of a
settled peace.
.Vs for Hughes’s methods of winning the
war itself, it is not clear that the fragments
behind him could, if returned at the polls,
do any more towards achieving that .desir-
able object than they have done already.
The soldiers at the Front will fight just as
well whichever party is in power; as for
the rest, there is not the smallest sign that
the Phewsion intends to remedy any of the
old administrative defects at home. Pearce
and the censorship remain; the fierce
muddle and shameful waste goes on; thou-
sands of inequalities, irregularities and irri-
tations are still unchecked. These things do
not help to win the war; but they are
inseparably connected with the party whose
whole policy is supposed to be expressed in
the win-the-war gag. Tudor and his fol-
lowers might not make a greater success of
the handling of military affairs than Hughes
and his supporters have done; but it is
hardlv Within the bounds of human possi-
bility' that they could make a worse mess of
it. Tudor at least promises the abolition
of the most undemocratic part of the censor-
ship and is more likely than Hughes to keep
any promise which he makes: while there
is always n decent chance that a Tudor
Ministry might find a man of average intel-
ligence to put in charge of the Defence
Department. Thus, when it comes right
down to the business of winning the war
itself, the man-of-aetion Tudor seems a
better public investment than the word-
spinner ITugttes ; and in all other matters
—particularly those affecting a tariff and
improvements in our political_ machine —
Tudor stands for something while Hughes
stands for nothing at all. The chief things
that Hughes has hitherto done towards
winning the war have been the lotting off
of some loud noises in England and the
taking of a Referendum on the Conscription
issue at the wrong time and under the worst
possible conditions —conditions which were
largely of his own creation. And as for
Cook and his henchman Millkn —well,
when theii were in power they had such a
bold conception of National policy that they
called on Australia to raise a forde of 20.000
men —a whole twenty thousand —for the sup-
port of the Empire! On these achievements
and not on gags and catchwords the Phew-
sion must be judged.
[To express the views of The Bulletin', by S. TT.
Prior, f. .T. Tvirbv and D. M. Wiuottt, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
LITERATURE.
The good Australian of Arthur H. Adams.
of George-stroet, Sydney,, overlooking On
Chong’s and Chew Lee’s :
The Federal Labor Party is definitely pledged,
if returned to power, to - revise the Customs tariff,
-with a view to giving adequate protection to Aus-
tralian manufactures and developing our resources.
T therefore draw its attention to one important, but
struggling, Australian manufacture that needs imme-
diate and adequate protection and development -
the manufacture of Australian literature.
So far the tariff has done nothing for this trade;
hut In hundreds of one-man factories, all over the
Commonwealth, each more or less equipped with
up-to-date machinery (such as imported typewriting
machines and imported pens and imported paper
and imported scissors and imported blue pencils),
this valuable industry is valiantly struggling to
establish itself on a secure footing. The quality of
the wares turned out in these isolated factories is
fully up to the standard of the imported goods of
current manufacture, *and in most instances they are
given a shape and a quality that makes them specially
suited for Australian consumption. In the end,
the local flavor will commend itself to its Aus-
tralian consumers and drive the imported goods
from the home market; but at present the unre-
stricted dumping of foreign-made, goods upon the
Australian market allows this baby industry little
chance of making its value known.
The imposition of a tariff on imported fiction
and imported drama and imported films will help
the Australian literature industry to some extent.
Discretion must, of course, be exercisejl in drawing
up the schedule; but there are certain classes of
literary imports upon which a prohibitive tariff
should be at once imposed. Such articles as syndi-
. cated newspaper serials, cheap American magazines
and the sensational and sentimental fiction made in
England and America we could easily do without.
There would be a free list of scientific and technical
works, even from Germany: and for the bulk of
the rest a small tariff would sift out the good from
the worthless.
But the imposition of Customs duties would not
solve the difficulty; the Australian literature indus-
try needs sterner methods if it is to become estab-
lished and attract the best brains in the community
into the business, and provide those brains with a
living wage. The simple solution of the difficulty is
to introduce to Australia the copyright legislation
now in force in the United States. Ail the Labor
Party has to do is to pass a Bill forbidding copy-
right in Australia to any printed matter unless it is
wholly set up and printed in Australia simultaneously
with its printing overseas. The result of this patri-
otic enactment in the United States has heen to
place American literature on a firm and settled
basis and to give permanent employment to American
authors, printers and bookbinders and publishers.
Publishers in England have to secure copyright in
America by forwarding MS. to American publishers
or to their branch establishments in the United
States, and giving the work of printing their Ameri-
can editions to Americans. Otherwise the English
publishers know that their books are liable to be
pirated. That the danger is a real one may be
emphasised by a local illustration. An Australian
author published a book in Australia, and subse-
quently an English edition was brought out in
London. The author’s agents received inquiries for
an American edition, but they found that, owing to
the author not having complied with the American
law of simultaneous publication in the U.S.A., his
book could not be copyrighted there. A voluntary
agreement was made with a firm that wished to
publish an American edition, but the agents warned
the author that it had no legal standing, and what
they got from the American firm would depend on
that firm’s, reputation for honest dealing. And that
firm, if it made a success with the book, would have
no legal remedy if another American firm pirated
the hook.
Similar, legislation in Australia would give an
immense impetus to this neglected industry of litera-
ture. If to secure Australian copyright every
foreign-printed book had simultaneously b> he
printed in Australia, the publishing firms of \us-
tfalia would have to enlarge and make permanent
their factories, while new printing establishments
would be certainly founded. There would therefore
he permanent employment for a large body of Aus-
tralian workmen; in fact, the printing industry
would become a body of substantial importance in
the national life. Another result of this legislation
would be the establishment in our midst of branch
publishing-houses from the leading overseas firms,
employing in Australia the men that are now em-
ployed overseas.
But where does the one-man factory bossed by the
Australian author come in? The Australian
publisher who- now seldom lias his own printing
house, since his business is not large enough to
require a permanent establishment, gives out his
printing to firms that do general printing. The
increase of business brought by a proper Australian
Copyright Act, would, however, necessitate a body of
permanent employees and the setting-up of special
printing-houses. These could not a fiord to stand
idle, awaiting the arrival of overseas manuscripts.
There would thus arise a demand for the local
article, which the Australian publishers know from
experience is most suitable to Australian readers
and is capable even now of returning steady profits
to enterprising and patriotic publishers. The Aus-
tralian publishers would welcome this now state of
things. At present they dare not publish’ as much
Australian stuff as they would like, since it is
liable to be swamped by the free trade in imported
literature. The presence, too. of representatives of
the great English and American publishers, who
would anyhow have to print in Australia, would
open lip to the Australian author an opportunity
for prompt and accessible sale, without the long
delay that is now necessary for Australian authors
eager to try the English market.
The question now is which Federal party is will-
ing - to pledge itself to the passing of an Australian
copyright law upon the U.S.A. model. Which party
—that which promises to defer all consideration of
the tariff until it has, individually, won the war, or
that which is pledged to the immediate revision of
the tariff —is the more likely to take in hand the
immediate establishment of an important industry
on a firm footing? Upon the answer will probably
depend the vote of the owner of every literature
factory in the Commonwealth.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A New Sword and a New Word.
Woodrow Wilson, like Abraham Lincoln
in tho past, has got his will steeled at length
to the point of drawing the sword; and the
result* is a speech which has sent a thrill
through the world. The United States will
light,, will put something of their gigantic
weight into the Allies’ struggle, and the last
lingering doubt regarding the issue of the
war and its influence on the future has
passed away. That France, Britain and the
reformed Russia, could hammer the German
combine to a finish admits of little question:
but the entrance of America gives a new. a
clearer note to the war-trumpet. All the
nations concerned had declared again and
again that Prussian militarism must be
broken. Just what that might mean was
still problematical: but Wilson has gone
farther and is understood by America to
have declared that there will be no peace
until the thing that makes Prussian mili-
tarism possible is broken. The force of that
awful thing which has brought calamity to
the earth and filled the ocean with murder
is the arbitrary rule of despotic princes.
Wilson is going to count the princes out.
The only Germany with which he will make
peace is a Germany of the German people—
a State based upon equal franchise and
sobered by universal responsibility. To meet
the new position the German princes them-
selves appear to be feverishly working to
create something that will look more like
democracy. That it will be a sham is cer-
tain. A real German democracy would pro-
bably end the war in 20 minutes, and the
princes in 25. The Kaiser and his crowd
will try for a measure of reform which looks
good on paper, but leaves the realities of
power where they are at present That
Wilson and the United States may be blind
to the true nature of such a trick appears
bv the wireless messages from Berlin to be
the German Government’s prayer and hope;
but WrESON’s monumental patience is ex-
hausted, and so is that of the big
Republic behind him. America in the
course of the years has been roused
once or twice; and America roused is
a very clear-sighted and earnest proposition.
The chance of tricking Britain or France,
once American blood has been shed for the
great cause, is much greater than that of
tricking the nation that has been goaded
into the unwilling fight. It is safe enough
*to venture the forecast that, once the ai -
ships of the United States cross the
Atlantic, Britain, and not America, will
become the last lingering _ hope of the
Teutons. There are forces in Bnfain that
would blunderingly spoil the effect of the


coming victory; but even Ford of the peace-
doves is with Wilson now, and seeing red
like the rest of his countrymen. So the com-
plications of the future are likely to include
a red flag flying over Potsdam; and then
the nation that mistook Hell for progress
may at last listen to the democracy of the
world talking sense to it.
Hughes, Prime Minister and Mud
Slinger.
The insolence of the Prime Minister is
beyond the limitations of decency. Viewed
from the standpoint of the party scavengers,
his attempt to brand the supporters of the
Labor policy as the riff-raff of the con-
tinent —to convict the Labor party of being
the refuge of traitors and conspirators—
may possibly appear a legitimate form of
political controversy. Txie Bulletin does
not know what the party scavengers may
think, nor does it care. What it does know
is that the generous Australian can feel
nothing but scorn for the person who
defames the men and women to whom he
owes the bread he has eaten. Look at this
reference to the men who are opposing him
at the elections :
Is there one disloyal man in Australia who does
not regard this band as his champions, as his hope?
Is there one who does not give it his allegiance?
Is there one I.W.W. man who will not cast his vote
for the Tudor party on May 5 ? Is there one enemy
of Britain who will not do so? Is there oue man
of German descent who has a vote who will not vote
for them ? The difference between Mr. Tudor's
policy and ours is that behind ns we have the men
and women of Australia who would rather die a
hundred deaths than Britain should lose this war.
Such ;i tirade might be understood from
Cook. Coming from Hughes, who but a
few months ago was orating day in and day
out about the splendid war-record of the
Australian Labor party: who went to Eng-
land to. among other things, bargain for an
extension of the life of a Parliament in
which this party was in a majority: who
exhausted every possible effort to induce this
party to join him in a Ministry and juggle
him back into the place he had been tossed
from —from such a man this venom is almost
beyond contempt. Hughes was the col-
league of these people, their .friend, their
adviser, their apologist. His obedience to
the voters they are appealing to to-day was
abject. Until October the man’s adulation
of Labor was always extravagant, at times
sickeningly so. Now be spurns the name
of Labor, classes it with the German, asso-
ciates it with the grossest infamy. Yester-
day he was ignorantly denouncing compul-
sory military service as an offence against
the Australian people. To-dav he makes
it the test of loyalty to the Commonwealth —
denounces as unclean the men who voted
against-it. All the mud he is now throwing
at Labor has, on his own confession, first to
be scraped off himself.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. .1. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
Australia and the Conference.
Hughes sobs about it in every speech:
The voices of the other Dominions will be heard
at the London Conference. The voice of Australia
will be silent. What will our soldiers, who have
borne the heat and burden oi the day, who'have
endured, fought, bled and sacrificed all thugs in
order that the honor of Australia might be upheld—
what will they say when they learn their country is
not to share in these vitally important deliberations (
What can any loyal Australian say of a party cal .mg
itself Australian which thus deliberately inflicts this
humiliation and injury upon his country?
All of which is fully entitled to ‘‘loud
laughter.” The only reason Australia is not
represented at the conference is that a person
named Hughes thinks he detects a political
advantage in playing the part of dog-in-the-
manger. If, as Hughes alleges, humiliation
has been inflicted upon Australia, he himself
has done the inflicting; and the best thing
lie can do now is to explain how much admi-
ration he imagines is due to him on that
account. Andrew Fisher, three times
Prime Minister of Australia, is in Loudon.
As High Commissioner he could have repre-
sented the Commonwealth at the Conference
with complete propriety. The Conference is
merely deliberative, in cannot bind Aus-
tralians to anything. Why, then, is Fisher
not in attendance? The only possible answer
is that Hughes, because of the political hurri-
cane-season breaking sooner than he expected,
found it expedient to “inflict humiliation” on
the Commonwealth and go round the country
alleging that someone else had committed the
offence. What can any loyal Australian say
of a party calling himself Australian who
thus deliberately inflicts injury upon this
country?
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
Referendum with Initiative.
At last the Federal Labor party has re-
membered that the Referendum with Initia-
tive is on the platform, and has been there
for a long time. An attempt is to be made
to embody it in the Australian Constitution,
and when it gets there the democracy of this
country will at last bo in the way to become
its own master. The history of the lapse of
memory on the part of official Labor is in-
structive. When Labor was a compara-
tively weak and struggling affair its sup-
porters saw in the direct appeal to the
people and the direct suggestion of legisla-
tion by them a sure and safe road to its goal.
Had the principle of the Referendum with
Initiative been accepted by other parties
and made law, there would never have been
need for a great and elaborate Labor organ-
isation in Australia. That organisation
came into being because the people could
not make their voice heard; but so great
was its success that the organisers them-
selves forgot that it was only a makeshift
in place of real democratic rule. The party
system for a while, promised to give Labor
all it Avan ted, and Labor stuck to it blindly
in the fear that some of its power might be
filched away if the popular Referendum
system were put in good working order.
Now, after a fairly bitter experience,
Tudor’s following has discovered that only
what is sound in theory gives permanently .
good results in practice. The party system
is not sound in theory, and its results are
Hughes, the censorship, splits in the Labor
ranks, and all sorts of major and minor
evils. So the Labor party is climbing out
of the swamp and getting on the solid track
again, and if it stays there and tramps
steadily on, the results should be great. The
Referendum with Initiative will restore the
direct power of legislation to the people.
Under this system any considerable group
can, by petition, secure a popular vote on
any question. The Government cannot pre-
vent that vote being taken, and, if
carried, cannot, unless some new tricks are
discovered, refuse to give legislative effect
to it. Just how such a system would
have worked in the past and how it would
have benefited Australia can he seen by
reference to the tariff. A majority of the
members in both Chambers of the Federal
Legislature favored protection of industries.
A majority of the members of each party held
similar views on the question. Yet through
the logrolling of a few Freetraders it was
agreed by all parties to sink the tariff issue.
That, sinking played directly into the hands
of the Germans and sent good Australian
money to the Kaiser to enable him to buy
guns to shoot the Anzacs. Had the Refer-
endum with Initiative been in existence then,
a vote would have been (harried throughout the
continent in favor of high Protection, and
the tariff-sinkers would have been compelled
to obey orders. In Tudor’s policy speech
the new-old proposal merely fills an insignifi-
cant line; but it is in reality one of the two
biggest things before the country, and may
even stand through future times as Labor’s
finest memorial.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. 11.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
»
The Doctor and the Special Call.
Trade-unionism among the doctors is
very much the same thing as trade-
unionism among the coal miners, and the
coal strike of a few months ago is on all-
fours with the recent action of the B.M.A.
in preventing the periodical visits of doctors
to outlying districts. The idea is that there
are certain places which could support a
medical mau. but which up to now have
relied for medicine and advice on the visits
at stated intervals of doctors from neighbor-
ing towns. This regular visitation has been
stopped, in N. S. Wales, at any rate: and
now Bill Smith, if he wants to discover
why his wife has a chronic pain and is losing
flesh, can only have the doctor at “special
call” rates. The contention is that Bill
ought to combine with Jim and Tom to get
a doctor to settle in his own district. But
just now that theory won’t hold water. So
scarce, in fact, have doctors become through
the departure of practically all the younger
men to help the boys at the Front, that
J. D. Fitzgerald. N.S.W. Minister for
Public Health, appeals to those who have
retired from active practice to get busy
again and tide us over the period of stress.
Under such circumstances the B.M.A. can
hardly mean what it professes to mean : and,
if so, the reason doctors have ceased their
periodical visits to outlying places must be
the collection of “special call’’ fees. The
whole position as between the profession
and the public is complicated. As indivi-
duals, doctors are among the Commonwealth’s
best and most self-sacrificing citizens. They
render tremendous services generally at
reasonable charges, and very often gratis,
and the tale of a doctor's shirking or
neglect is so rare that, whoever else comes
into public disfavor, Sawbones retains the
faith of the multitude. It is when they try
to co-operate that they nearly always seem
to do it blunderingly. The very nature of
their calling makes it so; for whatever their
grievances, it always will appear to be in
the nature of a Prussian atrocity for them
to seek reprisals at the expense of the sick
and suffering. Probably there is no real
solution to be found except by way of mak-
ing the members of the profession public
servants. If there is one job more than
another to which the State should devote
itself, it is the care of its own sick and
injured; if there is one laborer more than
another who is worthy of the hire which
he too often doesn’t now get. it is the doctor.
Accept this principle, and the State and
doctors can surely adjust matters.
—
Running' with the Microbe and Hunting
with the Doctor.
The archbishops and bishops of the Anglican
Church “in Australia and Tasmania” have
just sent out a stirring Easter message on
the subject of sexual sin, and in try-
ing to combine the jobs of righteous
Pharisee and Good Samaritan they make a
remarkable spectacle. Here is a glimpse: —
We consider it, our duty to support all wise
efforts made by the State to prevent the spread of
disease and protect the general health, especially of
the innocent, provided that these efforts be entirely
free from the design of making sexual vice safe
from the consequences of physical dangers.
What a muddle-headed statement it is!
Here are these churchmen sure that disease
—particularly sexual disease —is the scourge
of the Almighty for vice, and mortally
afraid to interfere with the designs of
Providence in the matter, yet so urged by
public opinion that they are compelled to
advocate the doing of some things which
Providence has shamefully neglected. If
venereal diseases arc really intended as pun-
ishments for guilt, why. do they strike so
many of those who are innocent? Provi-
dence must be a clumsy affair if it can’t dis-
criminate better than that. The simple
truth, of course, is that innocence, under
existing arrangements, is hit hardest, that
vice escapes pretty lightly, and that the
most vicious vice is hardly touched at all.
Save the guilty, and the innocent will be
saved too; don’t save the guilty, and the
innocent will suffer all the time. But the
manifesto of the archbishops sets forth as
plainly as its framers dare that a little
venereal disease ought to be kept on the
premises for evildoers; and as long as that,
idea remains in the minds of churchmen,
they can be counted out as far as the assist-
ance they render to reform is concerned.
Williams 11. and 111.
What a thorough person the German was in
his villainous attempts to stir up strife
before the war actually came along! And,
considering his opportunities, how conspicu-
ously he failed ! In 1912 the London Maga-
zine published an article on “Ulster,”
written by an American with a German-look-
ing name, who had been sent over from the
U.S.A. to find out whether, in the event of
Home Itule being brought into force, the
followers of Cabson would actually fight.
The opinions which he obtained were varied,
and some of them remarkable; but this from
a “powerful member of the Ulster Unionist.
Council” makes strange reading in the light
of after events;—-
If England despises the loyalty we offer her, if
she withdraws her protection, there are those amongst
us who would go to any length rather than be forced
into an abject position. I know many prominent
Ulstermen who earnestly express themselves thus:
“If we arc refused an English sovereign, let us at
least have a Protestant one!’’ The Kaiser is a
great favorite here. In many of the best homes in
11 el fast, you will find a portrait of William the
Second of Germany hanging side by side with one
of William the Third of Orange.
In that statement, published two years before
the war, you may find the possible reason
why Roger Casement, self-appointed Irish
ambassador to Berlin on a mission repudi-
ated by all the best of his countrymen, could
make so little progress with the Kaiser. The
CARSON-ites had bought rifles from the Ger-
mans at a price at which rifles could" not be
made; and it was only natural that the.
authorities in Berlin should look for trouble
for England in Belfast rather than in Dub-
lin. But the Kaiser and his crowd miscal-
culated there as in so many other places.
The Orange yell was a very fierce noise: but
the mad Sinn Fein rising put up more fight
in a week than the Orange lodges, fully-
charged with anti-patriotism and whisky,
could muster in a century.
“O.Iv.”: The weakness of Woodrow Wil-
son’s. war address is in its pardonable
attempt to dissociate Hun government from
German people: —
We have no quarrel witli the German people, but
a feeling of sympathy and friendship. Germany
entered the war without the German people’s know-
ledge or approval.
I wish it were true. But the President’s
words are flatly contradicted by a hundred
popular books published in Germany years
before the event, and by the shouts of joy
in the newspapers when war was started.
‘Germany’s Swelled Head,” by Emil Reich.
published in 1907. is a typical and readable
exposition of the state of German feeling
which kept militarism in high favor, and
made the Kaiser’s attempt at world-conquest
practically inevitable. And. of another class,
the “Australian Girl in Germany." written
by one who was governess in the home of
a kultured and kindly German nobleman, is
a convincing exposure of bow Germans of
all grades hailed the outbreak of war as the
only possible means to their great national
end. Socialists and scientists joined forces
in jubilation. They all approved of the idea
of enforcing kultur upon the conquered
nations, according to the Kaiser’s promise.
It is true, that the multitude didn’t know-
beforehand when the conquest would begin :
but they had been taught to expect it some
day, and they had the sort of governmem
they thought was best fitted to accomplish the
glorious destiny they bragged about. Their
diseased devotion to their Prussian-made
Fatherland was, in fact, the soul of the
German menace. Wilson himself has
experienced some ugly proofs of how Ilun "
patriotism works in America. Did he observe
any German-American demonstration of
disapproval at the Lusitania outrage? No!
Nothing is gained by these diplomatic; palter-
ings with the truth concerning German
national sentiment. Germany has been self-
governed all the time. The Kaiser was a god
of its own creation, and Huns are what an
intensely organised and hitherto successful
militarism has made them.
One night last month three officers of a
steamer lying near Bradley’s Head in
Sydney Harbor wanted to return to their
ship. The only way was to hire a pulling
boat from Fort Macquarie, and the only
waterman there was an ancient mariner,
aged 70. His job was to row a heavy boat
against a strong breeze and tide right across
the line of ferry and harbor traffic on a
pitch-dark night. The old man saw a big
steamer coming, but, thinking it a long way
off, didn’t bother to keep clear, and his boat
was run down and he and two of liis pas-
sengers were drowned. It is ludicrous that
the pulling-boats which have been in list'
for 50 years should still be the licensed
form of conveyance of passengers about the
Harbor, crowded with all kinds of traffic
night and day. Motor-driven craft should
have replaced them long ago. But supposing
the business isn’t enough to warrant motor-
boats it is quite time that the Harbor autho-
rities recast their regulations. Everyone
who knows anything about Port Jackson
knows that the Harbor people license the
boats, but not the men who pull them. How
long is it since the eyesight of any of these
men was tested? Or the ability of any of
them to row a heavy boat across tin' harbor
in the face of wind and tide and dodge the
traffic?
»
Hughes in an inspired moment asks for
information: —
Only if the circumstances of the nation—the
Empire—demand it will we again put the Conscrip-
tion issue to the people. If a great reverse should
send the Empire reeling are we to do nothing? If
the very foundations of our national being are
endangered, are we to sit-supine? Mr. Tudor says
he will not accept our pledge. Well, let me now
ask him what he proposes to do in the case of such
a contingency as that to which I have referred. If
the great fleet which now protects these favored
shores he defeated; if a great land victory gained
by the Germans shall send the allied forces reeling:
if the dagger of the Ilun shall pierce the armor of
the Empire, will Mr. Tudor do nothing? Will he
not move in any emergency ?
lii the name of all the upas trees demolished
by Hughes, what is the sense of Hinging
problems of this kind at Tudor or anyone
else? If Hughes imagines that the public
should know the answers to these questions,
let him start off by answering them himself.
What does he propose to do to win the war
if the Grand Fleet is shattered and the
Allied armies are sent reeling?
——
Speaking of the Plicwsion’s reference to
the British Navy, Sydney Telegbaph
says:—
There is not a bushel of wheat or a bale of wool
sent abroad which could reach its destination if it
was not for the overwhelming might of the ship-
that hold the sea free to the traffic of the world.
All right as far as it goes; but it was the
Australian Navy, to the building of which
the Telegraph was once so much opposed,
that saved Australia in its hour of greatest
•danger. No ship that Britain had ever sent
to this part of the world could have saved
us at the outset of the war. So, while the
British Navy may enable us to send our
goods to market, but for the Australian ships
we might have had no goods to send to
market. The thing to be noted about it is
that the tone of Hughes and the Telegraph
is once more growing uncommonly like that
of the original opponents of our defence
schemes. Then, as now, their bleat was
of “Empire.”
- ■ - -♦
This paper hopes that the Commonwealth
Labor party spent the Easter holidays
accumulating ginger, because before the buns
arrived it seemed fairly clear that this
necessary commodity had been running short.
Elections are not won with pump-water.
This has been proved a thousand times and
will be proved again next month. Where-
fore The Bulletin advises Labor to arise
and awake and gird on its armor and get.
into the fray with considerably more empha-
sis than could be detected last week. This
election -is a vital one for Australia. By it
the whole course of Australian politics for
the next generation or so will in all proba-
bility be determined. It is claimed by the
Phewsion that “we are at the parting of
the ways.” This is as true as gospel, though
not quite in the sense that the Phewsion
wants the phrase to be understood just at
present. And Labor’s interest in the pro-
ceedings is considerable. What it has to
gain by wafting gentle zephyrs over the
landscape is rather obscure. This paper
recommends Tudor to mistrust the gentle
zephyr and stir up a few tornadoes to start
with. The performance of the past few
weeks has been frightfully dull.
The Phewsion’s reply to Troon's promise
of Protection for Australian industries is
simple, anyhow. Expressed by Cook the
answer is: “This cannot be done. Mr.
Tudor knows that it cannot be done. The
international position has altered.” The
charge against Tudor implied in these words
is of the gravest possible kind—an allega-
tion of deliberate intention to fool the elec-
tors. It is incumbent on the Labor leader
to let the community hear what he has to
say about it. The matter must be cleared
up. The point involved is a vital one, to the
electors and to both political parties. Aus-
tralia is being told daily by the Phewsion
that the tariff cannot be touched. If that
is so, then something very serious has hap-
pened to the constitutional functions of Par-
liament and to our powers of self-govern-
The Leader.
Being a free translation of a Policy Speech.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Sovereign People, hearken uuto me!
Hell yawns before you and the doom is nigh
Unless my leathern lungs can make you see
The one true fort you hold your freedom by.
Now is the crisis! I alone can save
Your country from the darkness of the grave.
The hour has struck 1 The trump of battle
rings!
The hosts of Hell must eveu uovv be tought.
I. who have graced the banquet-halls of
kings,
Think it no shame to ask for your support.
Knowing, unless in me you put your trust,
Your Freedom will be trampled in the dust.
I am the man who made you what you are,
1 am the builder of each thriving town,
1 am your shield and fiery avatar,
I am the sword that strikes your foemen
down,
I am the power that gives you all you lack,
1 bear the country humbly on my back.
My voice rings forth ! Is not the country
stirred ?
Is not the smallest township set ablaze?
Who else could slay the dragon with a word ?
Or disembowel tigers with a phrase?
Who else for flowers of speech could scale so
well
The heights of Heaven or dredge the depths
of Hell?
I am your soul incarnate! Aye, and more!
I am the Voice that can an Empire thrill,
Suiting its sentiments to every shore,
Welsh. British or Australian —as you will!
So each in this small frame of mine may see
The symbol of his own virility.
Follow the light that shines about my brow.
Leave all your fumbling ’prentice-work to
rot.
Much may be hoped for if you mingle now
Your old ideals in the melting-pot:
The tilings that make a nation free can all
Be won with cunning in the council-hall.
Yet there are demons who would drag me
down.
T who alone have made this country great:
In hidden nooks they shrink before, ray
frown,
Nerveless and spineless and emasculate;
I fossick all the slums of speech to find
Words that would prove them traitors to
their kind.
Who is to govern? Is it I or they?
The world is waiting breathless for your
choice.
And here I stand, stripped for the final fray,
Reeling out hell-fire in a brazen voice.
Proudly my coat-of-arms floats overhead —
A rabbit rampant on a field of red !
O Sovereign People, hearken unto me!
Tis I can save you when none other can.
Why vex your heads about a polity?
Is not the country calling for a Alan?
Trust me and I will lead v0n.... Whore?
What odds?
Is not the future hidden with the gods?
EMERALD (VIC.).
VANCE PALMER.


[For any unsigned Plain English or other para-
graphs which require a signature under the Electoral
Act, S. 11. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.]
GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co.. Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liauidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named. Distil-
hvy, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill. Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.s
ORME, KEIGWIN & GO. Ltd
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
wzm,
S— x ’
A
A
ScjtJWi'.'iSa
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating tbe Class oi Land in which yon
are interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAME 1 ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau. Brisbane, Q.
ment, and we have a right to know what it
is. If we are in hobbles we have a plain
right to know who put the hobbles on us.
If we are not hobbled, and if nobody is to
blame for hobbling us. then the Phewsion’s
story is a particularly wicked attempt to
once again deceive the people.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and lb M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
The Things that Count and the Things
that Don’t.
Australians need not worry themselves
about the popular current yarns concerning
"democracy in Germany,” the possibili-
ties of revolutions and so on. These ques-
tions at the moment have only an academic
interest; it is the armies in the field, the
finance of the struggle and the feeding of the
allied nations that are.the beginning, middle
and end of our practical concern. The
address of Von Hindenberg is a thousand
times more important than anything the
Kaiser may be saying about the franchise
later on, for the war is going to be won by
shells and men and bombs, and nothing else.
And apparently the armies are now hard at
it in the vicinity of the German’s new roost-
ing-place behind the old battlefield on the
Somme and northward of Arras. This paper
sees several reasons to be hopeful about the
result, but none for expecting victory except
after a stupendous struggle. And this being
so, the Australian who imagines that scrappy
news items of dubious origin concerning the
Prussian franchise justify him in staying at
home seems to this paper to be the victim
of tragic delusions. The American has been
under no misapprehensions of that sort.
He lias come into the disturbance with a
clear realisation of the power of the German
arms and the terrible menace of those
arms to the march of human freedom. This
paper makes no pretence to prophesy the
progress of the war. It sees the likelihood
of an allied victory, and in certain contin-
gencies the possibility of the German escap-
ing defeat. But it has a strong suspicion
that before the thing is over American troops
will be fighting in Europe, and that the Aus-
tralian who stands out will be praying for
Uncle Sam to stick to it good and hard. At
any rate, ideas about a run-through next
week are as idiotic as they were two years
ago. What we British seem to need almost
more than anything else, is a fixed convic-
tion that if we win we shall do it only by
fighting. The tendency to cloud that fact by
constantly talking of looming German revolu-
tions and such things merely indicates that
there is a weak strain in the national
character, and that some people are willing
to pander to it.
The Ricketty Isles are boiling over again.
Waimangu, the geyser that was partly a
volcano, broke out afresh a few days ago
and blew holes through the Devil’s Frying-
pan—the spurting sulphur plain which the
tourist from Rotorua was wont to look at
after he had been awed by the nowadays-
roofless mountain of Tarawera and been par-
boiled on the steaming track around Roto-
mohana. Apparently the devil who stokes
the fires beneath Maoriland isn’t satisfied
yet; for passing vessels say that something
unusual is also happening at White Island,
which consists mostU of sulphur and a bad
smell.
Died a few days ago Fred Rossbach.
dredge superintendent in the N. S. Wales
Works Department and one of Ma’s most
capable public servants. He was the last
of three brothers, J.A., Wm. and Fred, in
the Works Dept. All three died compara-
tively young.
Further testimony to the enervating charac-
ter of the climate in the N.T. More than a
generation ago the ft. Aus. Government
engaged Gilbert McMinn to survey the Adel-
aide to Darwin telegraph lino. He was so
dissatisfied with the climate and the possi-
bilities of the country that he stayed there
35 years—till he was 60. Then he came
south, and filled in his declining and debili-
tated years running the post-office at West
Hawthorn ( Vic.). Lately a burglar called
on him, whereupon McMinn. who is now 73,
gave him such a reception that the intruder
nearly broke his neck negotiating a flight of
steps.
“O. Blirf” : “Bury” tells me (B. 5/4/’l7)
that the political BnrcheH’s two stars can
be explained by the fact that Burchell has
had 16 years’ experience on the Westralian
railways. But I know a man in the Rail-
ways Unit who has seen as much service in'
another State and is only a simple private.
I do not grudge Burcliell his rank, but I do
reiterate with emphasis that the distribu-
tion of officahs’ stars is often more political
than military.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING W hLK.
Her Majesty's “The House that Jack Built
Palace “Very Good Eddie
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Trianvrle Plays
Repertory ''Jmker
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving 1 ictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden * Thp Smart SGt
White City Various Shows
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MRf.HOUI!NK SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Canary Cottage^
Royal “The Marriage of Kitty
Princess’s "The Bunyip”
King’s “Turn to the Right
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium . “A Daughter of the Gods ’
Majestic “Gloria’s Romance”
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
»
“The Marriage of Kitty,” which intro-
duced Marie Tempest at Melbourne Royal
last Saturday, is one of the cutest little
plays of its type, but the type is light and
small for a whole evening’s bill. Coming
new to the present generation of Austra-
lians the atmosphere of the story seems
exotic and enervating, and its characterisa-
tion makes no appeal to working humanity.
"Kitty” is refined farcical comedy that radi-
ates from the idiosyncrasy of an amiable
gentlemanly ass. The foolish hero, with
£lO,OOO a year to be foolish on, is more dis-
tinctly drawn than the clever little heroine.
She gets all the sympathy of the girls be-
cause she is tricky, luxurious and warmly
disposed to love the wealthy ass who treats
her nicely. His idiosyncrasy is a tendency
to simple adoration of whichever smart,
designing creature keeps closest to him.
Madame de Semiano, a Peruvian widow, is
the latest clot of adoration on the brain
of Sir Reginald Belsize, Bart., when the
joke begins. The will of his late uncle for-
bids Reggie to marry this particular bundle
of nerves, under penalty of losing the £16,000
a year. The fortune can only be secured
by his promptly marrying any other woman.
So lie begs his solicitor to find a means to
circumvent nunky’s will, and the lawyer finds
u god-daughter who agrees to marry Reggie
(and live without him) in order that he may
subsequently divorce her and unite himself
with the Peruvian bundle of nerves. This
unholy contract makes ample provision for
Kitty’s future, of course. In addition to a
cash income she is provided with a villa in
Switzerland, where Reggie drops in casually
and soon transfers his adoration to the
transformed Kitty. Also Madame and the
solicitor drop in to assist the complication,
and finally the married couple elope together
in Madame’s motor-car.
There are four people that matter in this
brightly-written comedy, but only one of
them, Graham Browne, presents quite the
right effect in his part. He looks it, to
begin with, and lie plays the weak-minded
lover with polished address and a discreet
sense of humor. He seems natural even in
his infatuation for Miss Gwen Burroughs,
whose notion of the dashing foreign adven-
turess in a chronic state of hysteria is callow
and unconvincing. Her alleged powers of
attraction are suggested by her appearance,
but there the suggestion ends. Sydney
“THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY."
MELBOURNE ROYAL. '
Marie Tempest as
Kitty.
Graham Browne
as Sir Reginald
Bel size.
Stirling, as the conspiring man-o’-law, wears
his youngest elderly style with sombre trim-
mings, whereas one thinks of Kitty’s fairy-
godfather as a genial middle-aged solicitor,
with parental deportment and a twinkle in
his humid eye. And Kitty? Marie Tempest
gives a first impression of being rather too
boisterous for her age, and as, the comedy
proceeds her art cannot always conceal the
truth about it. There are some notes of
ripe maturity in her varied speaking tones,
though she is still a charming singer of her
little French song at the piano. Her art is
somewhat French throughout. She has
Parisian genius for dressing herself, and she
occasionally talks to the audience. She is
merrily saucy or demurely droll, and the
spirit of mischief is in her glance. She is
at her best in the second act, from the time
when she stares at the apparition of her
unexpected hubby to the moment when she
kisses him for the first time. In her melt-
ing moods Marie Tempest is great. As an
exponent of Love’s young dream she will
never go beyond IS.
“The House That Jack Built” reached
Sydney on Saturday, and Her Majesty’s
could just swallow the grown-up kids that
turned up for their Easter panto. “The
House” starts fairly for its nursery handicap
with several form-loads of nice little girls
singing the old classic in front of some Hop’s
Understudy drawings: but it isn't long
before the show becomes a field of shapely
legs—the J.C.W. people have been long
enough in the business to know that you
can’t catch the whisky-and-soda citizen who
goes to pantos and hold him with
nursery rhymes. The result is as
good a thing as the Firm has done
in recent years. True, the plot is the
sort that even a memory-specialist would for-
get in three minutes; the brain automatically
rejects it as being of no consequence. Every
bald-headed child conies away with a dim
impression that it started with an insolvent
and tremendously tall farmer with a high
bald head, grey o' tpost whiskers, a mild
manner and creaky legs (Ernest Langford),
who was married to a cheerful “dame” with
“THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT,”
AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Barleycorn Langford and a couple of his
panto, farm-hands.
a wide, sly smile, a glowing nose. and a
smart taste in insane dresses (Arthur Sti-
gant). Then there is a droll, tousled panto,
farmhand (Harry Iloxbury) and William
Fullbrook, a good eccentric actor who rings
the changes as an old player, a policeman, a
pottering suburbanite and an explosive
apoplectic duellist. They make a good work-
ing quartet, and, besides clever team work,
there are amusing individual turns. like
Iloxbury’s “Before a Military Board.”
« * * *
Principal-boy Hilda Guiver is a tall, dark
newcomer with an engaging smile and a mel-
low voice. She is at her best in a pierrot
song. Gretclien Yates, principal girl, is a
fair and dimpled personality who has the
advantage of wearing one of the smartest and
best-cut frocks ever elaborated in Australia.
It has the sweet lines of a racing yacht and
makes the slim wearer look as if she could
fly if she liked. A d.c. clotlies-critic jumped
iii her seat when she first set eyes on it.
“Well,” she gasped, “if a woman couldn’t
look -well in that she ought to be shot!”
Constance Cayley is billed as the Prince
Regent and is supposed to have a malign
influence on “The House”; but when she
turns up to foreclose in a glittering bell-
topper and a costume which includes (1)
low-necked bodice with ruff round her neck,
(2) black shoulder-cloak, (3) ebony walk-
ing-stick. (4) mustard-colored tights and
high-heeled shoes, everybody knows that it
is all a mistake. No bailiff ever looked
like that. Amy Murphy as Fairy Industria
looks as well nourished as such a fairy
should be, wears her hair down her back,
waves a nickel-plated wand and sings melodi-
ously without exciting interest. Maggie
Dickinson dances twice as Fairy Sunbeam in
two long ballets. Sydney has not seen any-
thing like it since Genee left. Charles
Albert leaps obligingly as the Demon of
Despair ; and a special cheer is due to ballet-
mistress Minnie Everett and the girls who
move with such freedom and grace through
the well-planned Dance of the Emotions.
The bright children of the show work well
and help in one of the most decorative
“THE HOUSE THAT JACK BULLT,"
AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Sammy (Harry Rosbury) and Dame Arthur
Sligant in something simple but noisy.
scenes, “Tulip Time.” The massing of the
chorus and the business are refreshingly
original—like the finale of the first act when
the curtain comes down on a stageful _of
dancers fluttering white hands in imitation
of dragonflies or other animals that suicide
around lamps in summer. A pageant of
nightmare bicycles gets one of the big laughs
of the night. \V. IT Coleman and Geb.
Upward provide the woods and farms,
battleships and palaces; Chas. Wenman pro-
duces and Victor Champion looks after the
music, some of which Sydney has -heard
before.
Here it is again, the ancient melodramatic
war, with all the old theatrical conventions,
valiantly pretending that it has not been
strafed out of existence by the present orgy
of scientific murder. And an audience at
the Sydney Opera House on Saturday
watched with apparent approval the quaint
reappearance. “The Story of the Rosary
is placed somewhere in modern Europe, but
Walter Howard, the compiler, hasn’t taken
any trouble to make it credible. Privates
stand in negligently graceful attitudes when
talking to their officers, and everybody casu-
ally salutes everybody else, and occasionally
the scenery. The dragoons evidently fight
on foot, and bivouac in a village that has
already been shelled, and when the hero is
seen in no-man’s land attempting, in broad
daylight, to rejoin his company, the officers
are too busy telling each other what is hap-
pening to him to utilise the machine-gun.
posted with a deliberate disdain for cover.
The war occupies only a few months, and
peace is signed on the battlefield, but the
hero is captured in that last battle and
serves nearly a year in the enemy’s “mines.”
The author, with a fine stroke of realism,
introduces a lonely shell which slides grace-
fully along a wire and explodes, without,
however, killing the benevolent colonel; but
this is the only departure from the realms
of comic opera. It seems a pity to spoil it
like that.
The plot matters least of all. Two cousins
love the princess; one is a noble youth, the
other a malignant but quite futile villain.
Of course there is a midnight wedding,
slickly done in one flicker, and the hero is
falsely accused of having waited to consum-
mate the marriage and thus deserted his
post in battle. The lady is received by the
convent, and when she hears the news of her
husband’s death she becomes Ophelia. How-
ever. owing to the commonsense of the
villain, her mind is restored. No doubt be-
cause of that, she resists his pressing offers of
marriage. When, earlier, this villain scorn-
fully tells her that the jewels she is wearing,
and even her clothes, belong to him. the
princess indignantly removes the jewellery,
but does not proceed to cast her clothes dis-
dainfully from her. As George Marlow would
see, here “The Rosary” deliberately misses a
chance to be a successful bedroom drama.
The author has. however, not neglected the
indispensable part of the officer reduced to
the ranks who. by marvellous gallantry
(off), rescues his officer and swears devotion
to the widow. True, this man seems
to spend most of his time swearing oaths of
devotion to somebody. There are 11 scenes,
and the scenic artist takes three to bring


m
m
pOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
j
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
mown**
StnaWKisxr
de Luxe
DANIEL CRAVFORDS
RED STAR
&££-
I
BUY A “BURBERRY” NOW
MANUFACTURERS NOTIFY INCREASED PRICES
We were aide, by reason of early ordering-, to obtain a limited
number of the newest Burberry productions, and have since been
advised -that repeat orders cannot be accepted at the same prices.
These famous British Coats have style-features that are quite
exclusive. We quote:—
Burberry Tweed Overcoat, Dark Grey All-wool English Tweed,
Raglan shoulders, open front, vertical pockets.
l’or business, general or evening w T ear. Medium weight.
£5/15/-
We Pay Postage.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PE APES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
300 (EL 311 George Street, Sydney.
the missing husband back to his wife -one
to introduce him to the mess, a front cloth
to allow the final scene to be set, and the
third to reunite the lovers. Just in time,
too. for the widow is on the point of becom-
ing a nun—apparently also at midnight. This,
however, must be said: the final scene is a
triumph for the painter.
Vivian Edwards makes a manly hero, and
Walter Hunt a sneerful villain. Frediswyde
11-unter-Watts is a soulful and statuesque
heroine. Marie d’Alton a placid nun. and
Klwvn Harvey a pleasant ingenue. Robert
Inman, Allan Wilkie, 11. W. Varna and
A. E. Greenaway admirably represent the
remaining serious characters, while Edward
Landor and Henri Pore do their best with
the thick slabs of crude humor.
Kathlene MacDonell, from Canada, is still
damping the handkerchiefs of her female
adofers at Sydney Criterion with the watery
sentiment of “Daddy Long Legs.” And
Charles Waldron is still smiling the sweet,
sugary smile of the benevolent millionaire.
After nine cheery weeks “Very Good
Eddie” sees the wharf in sight from the
deck of the Catskill, and the luggage is piled
ready for the tip-hunting steward. On Satur-
day, April 21, “Turn to the Right” is due at
Sydney Palace.
Despite an Easter cold snap, “The Pink
Lady” hasn’t turned any bluer than she was.
She is at Sydney Royal now.
Ileeord attendances at Sydney Show —
112.000 on Easter Monday—so the Wirths
are cutting a fine crop at the Hippodrome,
where the sinking ring draws in its breath
with an ecstatic sound and coy elephants
pose in the limelight.
The Follies featherweight quick-change
show at Sydney Tivoli is served up this
week to Show visitors with fresh vaudeville
support—Lady Sen Mei, the Flying
Weavers, Marie King Scott and Clement
Dickens May.
The pleasant little show that the Smart
Set has. been running for some months at
the Garden Theatre (Sydney) will be
blacked out this week. The Red Dandies
follow.
The White City (Sydney) will probably
cease its gaieties, for the season next month.
Meanwhile King Carnival is at the old
address —Rushcutter’s Bay, Sydney.
Sydney filmings this week :
Hoyt's: “Her Surrender,” which attempts to
answer the problem whether a gill can take the
wrong turning against her own will. Second ballot
necessary.
Lyceum : “The Bad Boy,” who is not so bad as he
might have been if the Good Girl had not inter-
vened and spoiled the fun; with Dr. Dorsey in China
and Ceylon; and “Her Circus Knight,” a hilarious
Triangle film.
At the Repertory Theatre, Sydney, Fred
Macdonald and Harry McDonna, of the
“Selection” company, will continue during
this week to do good by stealth in the polite
characters of Grafter, an unregistered
bookie, and his clerk .Tinker. Since its open-
ing “.Tinker” has been pulled together. It
needed it.
“CANARY COT-
TAGE,” HER
MAJESTY’S
(MELB.).
Alfred-Frith talcing a stroll with his drinking
pals.
“The Bunyip” panto., which came on to
Melbourne Princess’s from Sydney last
Saturday, is a vaudeville diversion, wanting
in decorative features, and especially lacking
the emphasis of a radiant personality.
There is hardly any “book” to speak of.
The story of how Fairy Wattle Blossom
became a Bunyip is speedily trampled under
the feet of assertive vaudevillains, with thq
result that the poor Fairy suffers constant
effacement, while the Chief Gnome is given
about 10 minutes to be grotesquely diaboli-
cal. No panto, demon could expect to be
impressively horrible in under half-an-hour’s
display of threatening gesture and glittering
eyeball. Still, Villiers Arnold, who has few
and fitful opportunities for supernatural
deviltries, at least looks important and at
times suggests a gnome of superior qualities.
Miss Pearl Ladd is a little delicate and
poetical, except in her physical realisation or
the Fairy; the other characters become most
interesting when they change their clothes.
Vocally, the best of them are Miss Belle
Pollard and Walter Whyte, two artists who
can scarcely conceal their ennui at being
condemned to semi-somnolence as a station
overseer and his missus. A frequent inter-
ruption is Miss Daisy Merritt as a flighty
"dame,” who tries to attain celebrity by
agonised dressmaking. Miss Queenie Paul
is a comely “principal boy,” with a bare
modicum of voice and an unexhilarating
manner. Miss Airlie, as Joan, mostly lives
in retirement; Miss Caddy Franks and Miss
Nellie Kolle are chorus vocalists in uncom-
fortable. disguises; and Bellora, as Ironbark
is the old familiar bird mimic in a brief turn.
Also, there is a young English jackeroo,
Mbnty Morency, played by Peter Brooks,
whose intrusion in pale grey raiment into
a bush homestead throws the outfit two
centuries back in its sartorial tastes. The
best thing on the programme is the turn of
the Marvellous Manchurians, who form
themselves into pyramidal pictures and
somersault in an engaging style. _ The
Cavannas also furnish a good item—-
a series of slack-wire eccentricities mixed
with music and patter. The liege Robins
scenery is strongest in a bush-fire sensation,
and weakest in a Jenolan Cave interior,
the latter recalling a mancliester sale at a
department store. The ballets are bright,
but none too finished, considering that they
have already done some weeks’ work in
Sydney.
Next week will be the eighth of “Turn To
the Right” at Melbourne King’s, and then
the quaint comedy of crooks will fold up its
moral and depart for another mission-field.
It ought to have a Salv’army Night before it
goes.
“Canary Cottage” and its multifarious
clothing and prehistoric scenery are still at
Melbourne Majesty’s. The ostensible coun-
tenance of Field Fisher continues to be a
study in the incredible, and the same blue
devils follow in the wake of Frith when lie
saunters across stage in his sleepihg suit.
Also the three principal ladies persist in com-
peting for the attentions of young-man
Greene, whose softest smile is a trifle on the
hard side.
Talleur Andrews (his melodious voice
sounds even more robust than of old) is
helping to fill in time at Melbourne Tivoli
until Ada Reeve takes the centre. The bill
otherwise cheers but does not intoxicate.
Alfred Wilson is a clever patter-acrobat, who
cracks wheezes when he isn’t throwing him-
self about; Leeds and Lamar, both of this
country, .are an improvement on many im-
ported couples in their line of business; and
the two children who supply No. 3 turn on
the bill are interesting young artists.
** * *
This week Ployt’s (Melb.) are giving some in-
side information about “The Circus Dancer.”
She is a passionate Dago female who is pur-
sued by an importunate bloke named Jose,
and politely rebuffs him with a stiletto.
Agonies of imprisonment in a fortress fol-
low, but the dashing heroine escapes and pro-
vides Hoyt’s customers with numerous extra
thrills before she finally fades away into the
outer darkness. Hoyt’s other nerve-shaker
is a Metro five-reeler, “Vanity,” in which a
murder and a mannequin (Emmy Wehlen)
are two of several important particulars.
The double-feature bill at Melbourne
Majestic on Saturday comprised two five-
act Ince dramas, “Chicken Casey” and “The
Sins Ye Do.” In the first-named Dorothy
Dalton is a surprise-packet of negligent slum
attitudes, chased by a nice new man, Charles
Gunn, who in vigor and directness is a
dramatic “75.” The other Majestic story
deals out some fresh views on “the unwritten
law” in one or two unusually gripping tab-
leaux. Frank Keenan and Margery Wilson
head the cast of nine characters.
0
The most striking thing in a quiet week
in Adelaide has been the continued success
of “Peg” at the King’s. Sara Allgood has
many of the mannerisms of Nellie Stewart,
and the support is good; the rather massive
indoor setting is a tight fit for this little
stage. At the Tivoli, Sydney James is hav-
'ing great fun in burlesquing the said Peg,
with Connie Milne as his aunt. At the
Majestic, Belle Verne still shows a shapely
figure on a bicycle, the Jap Tsuda does'
some rather astonishing balancing, and
Mack and Le Blanc have brought in an
extravaganza team. The Town Hall was
almost the only picture-show to alter its
programme for Good Friday, and on Satur-
day Italian opera at the Royal started with
“Trovatore.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: The public’s memory of Rose
Musgrove as the heroine in “The Marriage
of Kitty” seems to be very misty. A lot of
people who remember the comedy as a
charming thing have forgotten that it gave
Rose the chance of her life and that she
scored a real success. She was so young
and fresh and graceful in the part, and her
personality was just suited to it. But hers
couldn’t have been a striking personality,
or it would not have been so easily forgotten
in 32 years. Fob that matter, nobody seems
to remember Draycott and .Miss Hamer, the
two imported people who’ took the other prin-
cipal parts. Yet Florence Hamer, as the
woman waiting for her husband to die, had a
lot of admirers, though she was playing
against the sympathies of the crowd.
“E.F.”; Cappelli will be remembered as
the best operatic tenor this country has
heard for many a long year. McCormack at
his best was richly sweet, but never quite
so convincing in pathetic passages as the
young Italian, nor nearly so forcible an
actor. Dani was not the equal of Cappelli
in any respect. His voice was harder, and
his style comparatively wooden. Cappelli,
perhaps, gets credit for being a better actor
than he is because lie puts so much feeling
into his singing. It is his voice that does the
trick. His low notes are thrilling. And he
does it all so easily. The star man of the
Gonsalez co. is surely the least theatrical
Italian tenor that ever was in these lati-
tudes. It’s his bad luck to be a rising young
artist at a time when the grand-opera
"markets of Europe are closed, and even
America has got war on its mind.
Hoyt’s has been forced to fall into line
with the powerful Picture Combine as re- .
gards the amusement tax, and will presently
pass it on to the public in the general theatri-
cal way. The Combine’s exchanges threatened
to charge 50 per cent, extra for pictures to
all suburban showmen who deal with the Co-
operative. in which Hoyt’s are financially
concerned. Whereupon the suburban show-
men, being unable to get all their goods from
tiie Co-op., persuaded Hoyt’s to be coerced.
Wherefore on April 16 the Hoyt Picture firm
will shift the tax on to the public and leave
it there, unless further attempts are made
by the Combine film exchange to pull away
any of the Co-operative customers. So far,
so bad!
AT MELBOURNE
TIVOLI.
One of the
Takinesses.
“Dumper” tells the story his Avay:—
The drama in which the Associated Theatres and
the Co-operative Film Exchange are engaged with
Hoyt’s began in January, when the Picture Show-
men’s Associations of N, S. Wales and Vic. decided
that the public should pay the Commonwealth
Amusement Tax, and called on the film exchanges .to
help them bring this about. All film exchanges,
including the Co-op., promised support. Then
Hoyt’s Kinema, at Mosman (Sydney), began paying
the tax for patrons; so 26 independent Sydney sub-
urban showmen called on the Co-op. Exchange in
Sydney and threatened to cancel their business unless
Hoyt’s immediately passed the tax on. The Co-op.
flew to the other film houses for assistance, and these,
instead of grabbing the Co-op.’s customers (as they
easily could have done), refused to take advantage of
the situation. A round robin affirming the prin-
ciple of passing on the tax was signed by all the
exchanges, including the Co-op., which agreed to
give three months’ notice to Hoyt’s that service
would be discontinued unless the tax was passed
on. It was explained that Hoyt’s contract called
for three months’ notice, and the 26 suburban show-
men were satisfied. Hoyt’s reps, then went over to
Sydney and made a few inquiries. Things drifted
until three weeks ago, when the Sydney showmen
asked the exchanges for definite action, and stated
that they considered the Co-op. had broken its word.
The first step was for Co-op. clients to withdraw
their patronage. Then reps, from the exchanges
went to Melbourne and met the southern showmen.
These latter 'promptly told the Co-op. that it could
stick to Hoyt’s or to them, whichever it pleased.
Then Hoyt’s gave way and promised to pass the tax
on to the public on April 16. If they do so there
will be peace; if they don’t they will have to
import their own films.
Vera Bedford will give a recital on April
22 at the Repertory Theatre (Sydney). The
young composer and vocalist and her partner
in the recital, Roy Agnew, will present com-
positions of their own, of Fritz Hart and of
Rex de Cairns Ilego; also music of Brahms,
Schubert. Tsclmikowsky, Schumann, Beet-
hoven, Chopin and Debussy, who are more
famous but not so much alive.
[214 George Street, Sydney.]
DRESSED FOR THE HERO FART.
“J.F.H.”: With complete justification,
London Referee, reviewing the dramatic
output of 1916, slates the top-hole play-
wrights for their lack of enterprise or selfish
holding-back of manuscripts until the arrival
of peace and more favorable conditions.
Among the pilloried are Pinero, Haddon
Chambers, Davies, Anthony Hope, Henry
Arthur Jones, J. B. Fagan, It. C. Carton,
Galsworthy, J. Iv. Jerome, Cosmo Hamilton
and L. N. Parker. Somerset Maugham is
acquitted for the good reason that he is in
khaki at the Front. J. M. Barrie saved his
bacon with the successful “Kiss for Cinder-
ella,” and Alfred Sutro weighed in with
a war-economy sketch done in the halls.
Vacnell, Besier and Knoblauch, the author
of “Kismet,” are declared to be the only
industrious dramatists of the year. The
Referee thinks the principal playwrights
ought to have turned out dramas “aflame
with sincere patriotism,” thus doing their
bit in helping and cheering the fighters and
the workers. Still, in spite of the silence of
the topnotchers, the London theatre has
never flourished in my 30 years’ connection
with it as it has during 1916.
“Ibsenshaw”: Pinero, who hasn’t been
heard from since his “Big Drum” burst a
couple of years ago, has just produced a
war-time playlet entitled “Mr. Livermore’s
Dream” at Oswald Stoll’s Coliseum, London.
The piece is a slight one-acter pointing the
moral (presumably) that household economy
will help to win the war. Livermore of the
title is a selfish, short-tempered business
man who objects to having his food and
drink cut down by his sensible wife. After
quarrelling with the family doctor, who
approves the missus’s point of Anew, he re-
tires to take his usual afternoon nap. He
has a dream. He sees himself as a war-
time economist practising self-denial in the
flicker line, and feeling healthier and hap-
pier in consequence. On waking, the dream
so affects him that he returns to his wife
and children converted and resolves to work
more and eat less. On this happy ending
the curtain falls. The cast pulled the un-
convincing trifle through. Lilian Braith-
waite was the wife; Norman Forbes (a
brother of Forbes Robertson) the doctor,
and C. M. Lowne (in Australia with Toole)
the livery Livermore.
“Monkbarns”: “Jwosp” (B. 15/3/’l7) re-
fers to the celebrated scuffle at the Melbourne
Opera House, somewhere about 40 years ago,
when the stage quarrel between Lange and
Clairette in “La Fille de Madame Angot”
became uncomfortably real. He thinks the
performers Avere Clara Thompson and Miss
Lambert. In fact, they were Jeannie Win-
ston (Lange) and Clara (Clairette). All
the people on the stage blamed Jeannie
for making an unprovoked attack on Clara
(Mrs. Bracy), and I fancy she afterwards
admitted she Avas in fault. She was very
tall and strong, with a temper to match.
Said to have come from Maoriland. Any-
how, she began in Lyster’s chorus, being the
wife of Arthur Bell, the Trenitz in “Madame
Angot.”
(Continued on page 26.)


THERE IS NOTHING MORE ATTRACTIVE
THAN THE COMELY WOMAN.
THE QUALITIES THAT MAKE THE COMELY WOMAN ARE :
The Luxuriant Hair, the fine smooth Skin, the charm of dazzling: Teeth. Even
the plain woman who cares for herself and does not despise those little arts which make
for Comeliness, becomes the Comely Woman.
John § TRANCE
' TOILET PREPARATIONS make the COMELY WOMAN.
Our Soap, Powder (3 tints), Lakshmi Skin Cream and Lotion, New Pace Cream
(2 Colors), Dental Cream, Hair Foods, (Oily and Non-Oily), Carmine, Perspiration
Powder, Dry Shampoo, Curative Ointment and Creme Marquise
ARE USED BY ROYALTY and were AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDALS.
Obtainable from all Departmental Stores, Civil Service, AVashington H. Soul,
Lassetters, David .Jones, Farmer & Co.. W. T. YA r aters, Horderns’, McCathie’s, &e., &c.
Send 2d. Stamp for sample of Soap or Powder or Dental Cream to -John Strange
AA’inter (London, Paris, Borne). Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street; Mel-
bourne Office: 331 Collins Street. Adelaide Office: Steamship Buildings, Currie Street.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern- and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
SAVING! UNNECESSARY WORDS.
“Last night I went to a Red Cross bazaar."
“Sorry, old man, I'm broke, too.”
A correspondent, “Once Bitten, Twice
Shy,” growling in the Age about the exces-
sive cost of doctoring, is particularly indig-
nant at the charges made by medical men
for bringing little Australians into the
world. “The necessity for paying these huge
bills,” says complainant, "is not conducive
to large families. It kills the goose that lays
the golden egg.” Which recalls the Brigh-
ton (Vic.) parson - who said indignantly:
“Are babies of less importance than birds?
We have egg-laying competitions at our very
doors, but what is being done ” There
he jibbed. It was one of those sentences you
find—too late—that you can't finish with
elegance. ,
“Simon” : Re the Hibernian crowd that
wouldn’t take any notice of the Papal Dele-
gate (B. 29/3/TT). I remember another
that took a whole lot of notice of him, and
followed his example, too. R.C. circles at
Young (N.S.Wi were holding a gala week-
end, opening bazaars, churches and hospital
wings. On the Friday night Archbishop
Cerretti boarded the
outward train, on
which were many poli-
ticians bent on im-
proving the shining
hour. The Premier’s
ear was coupled on,
and here, later, all tin-
heads fores:'thered.
Some beautifully cool
beer was uncorked,
and ham sandwiches
handed round —ham,
mind you, on a Fri-
ll ay ! There were
ma n y baclc-slithery
R.C.’s present whose
only condition about
meatreating was that it
should not be raw. but
somehow the waxen
countenance of the
Delegate was to o
much for them, and
they forebore. Another
moment and his Ex-
cellency was reaching
across for those very
sandwiches. Was he
going to cast them
out as the hawkers
were cast out of the
temple? Several meat-
hungry eyes watched
him lap two or three
sandwiches together
with the precision of
a bricklayer; then his
fnouth slowly opened and closed over them
as mechanically as a grab dredge. After
that the backsliders simply had to eat them.
For what was a politician that he should
think himself better than a pilot.
“Ohal” : The brigade was expecting to be
attacked any day, and the suspense had
frayed the nerves of officers and men. Occa-
sionally a pair of hostile areoplanes came
over on bomb-dropping expeditions; but
spreading-out tactics were generally success-
ful and casualties were light. Still, when our
unlucky day arrived and the —th company
didn’t get the order quickly, the
stretcher-bearers had a lot of work to do.
Major N. was shaving when In l heard the
first explosions. He rushed from the tent,
razor in hand 'and half of his face covered
in lather, sized up the situation in a flash,
and bellowing, “Scatter, boys—DAMMIT,
SCATTER!” shocked the men to their
senses and saved further loss. That night
the regimental joker, recounting the story,
shouted in a fair imitation of the Major’s
voice: “Scatter, boys—DAMMIT, SCAT-
TER !” The result was unexpected and
sudden. The nth squadron, just then re-
turning from a nightly patrol, remembered-
the tragedy of the morning, and dispersed
with yells and clatter of hoofs. Now the
shortest route to hospital is to whisper to
one of the nth, “Scatter, boys—DAMMIT,
SCATTER!”
“F. Seedy”: A man needs to have occa-
sional bra in-waves to get on in the army. A
long corporal who used to manage a station
was marching a squad of artillerymen off
duty when the lot fell under the eagle eye
of a martinet colonel. “Here. Let me see
your arm—how many stripes? Two! By
Heaven, you will lose both! Look at those
men slouching along there! —number two
actually out of step !”. Quick as a flash the cor-
poral said, “He’s lame, sir ! Halt!” “Ah, he’s
I ime, is lie? Then leave a blank file and let
him march to the rear.” “Yes, sir. Fallout
number two, and limp behind. Forward-
quick march!” Away tramped the squad
marching like infantry, and a grinning Num-
ber Two limping like a good sport in the
rear. The corporal still wears his stripes.
* * * *
The real religion, as seen by an Aus-
tralian officer of Engineers in France:—
A muddy bit of trench covered over by a few
sheets of iron, and six large dixies boiling with free
coffee and cocoa for the wet and mud-splashed men
coming out of . the front trenches to the support
lines. It is the Y.M.C.A. forward canteen. Shat-
tered trees of an old wood are piled everywhere, and
hundreds of dead are lying all around amongst the
wreckage of war-—twisted rifles and bayonets, bombs,
grenades and equipment. At intervals great shells
come over and plough deep craters all around ; but
a Church of England chaplain and a Roman Catholic
chaplain take it in turns to keep the fires stoked
and hand out the reviving drinks in cups made of
old condensed milk-tins. These two padres have never
left their posts while the Anzacs have been in the
Great Push. I help them as much as possible with
rainproof coverings. Neither man has ever taken a
church parade in France; but through them we
have learnt what real religion is.
The Adelaide Licensing Bench is con-
sidering a fine point. Under a recent Act
it has power to close hotels not required for
public accommodation, and the police think
that in the older (western) part of Adelaide
there are several of these. The point taken
in opposition, on a test case, is: Why
WHERE ANGELS FEAR TO TREAD.
HER (fishing): "You know, I believe yon
think I'm a lot older than I am."
HIM ( blundering ): "Oh, no, no! I'm sure
you couldn't he a day older than you
look.”
shouldn’t Local Option mean what it says
it means? At the last poll most of the sub-
urban districts voted for reduction of
licenses, and got it; which meant that, to
close the statutory one-third, sundry hotels
had to be selected for slaughter* even though
there was no other within a mile or two.
The city, however, voted for No Reduction ;
and surely, says the hotel-keeping interest,
that ought to settle it. Otherwise a poll,
which is to be obeyed if the verdict goes one
way, and circumvented if it goes the other,
is of about as much value as an Arbitration
award in N. S. Wales. The police just
reply stolidly that a stroll through the Light
Square district shows far more pubs than
can be needed. It is practically admitted
already that, whichever way the Licensing
Court’s decision may go, it will be appealed
against. Meanwhile the case fills in time
by throwing further discredit on the local
option system—the stupid system under
which it is quite easy to shut up pubs where
there are too few already and almost im-
possible to do it where pubs are numerous
and frowsy.
“Mieketymulga” : Dur-
ing one of the night ad-
vances at Lone Pine,
Billjim was advised to
proceed cautiously and
probe the low scrub for
followers of the Prophet.
Sometimes the probing
was rewarded with a
dying grunt, sometimes
with a scampering Abdul
yelling for Allah. One
Billjim, pursuing a flee-
ing Turk, lunged when
within striking distance.
Abdul fell, and Billjim,
feeling satisfied, counted
one. Imagine his sur-
prise when his supposed
victim got up and re-
sumed his race for liberty.
Billjim sprinted, caught
up and dropped his man
again. Feeling certain
this time. he peered
round for fresh victims —
and thereby enabled the
supposed corpse to leap
up and get clean
away. “Blime!” said
Bill. looking for
gore on his bayonet,
lie didn’t possess
such an implement.
It had been shot off at the muzzle early in
the evening. And he had merely been push-
ing his Turk over.
“Carmine”: The cable tells us of the death
of Lord Muncaster; which recalls that “The
Brigands” in the Melbourne National Gal-
lery was suggested by the capture of Mun-
caster’s party in Greece in ’7O. The acre or
so of canvas was acquired for £l5O, but is
stowed away under hatches, with many
others, because it is now reckoned tripe.
Munqaster and the ladies were sent t<>
Athens pledged to negotiate £25,000 as a
ransom for the four gents, together with a
free pardon for the outlaws. Instead,
soldiers were sent to capture the band, who
promptly murdered the four hostages. The
immense painting shows only two prisoners.
Lord and Lady Muncaster. The noble reo-
liaired gent is amazingly like the Marquis
of Lome, while the lady was criticised as
being absurdly small. Also, they are sitting
down. The painter should have shown them
running.for their lives.
An American citizen puts it this way :
Australia couldn’t understand why the United
States didn’t simply jump into the trouble. It can’t
understand why we don’t overrun Mexico and set
that country in order. We fought for our own in-
dependence, for the right to work out our own salva-
tion. We reckon Mexico has the same right. We
are genuinely diffident about imposing our views
upon other people. Mexico we took once and handed
back. That explains why there is so strong a feel-
ing in favor of granting even the Philippines their
independence. You must, to get at the national
feeling, realise that the spirit of the War of Inde-
pendence saturates the country.
And then you must remember that our policy has
been to make the United States self-contained. Wo
have almost managed to do it. Go into inland
States like Missouri, and I doubt whether, even in
big towns, you would find a dozen lines of goods
that are not of U.S. manufacture. Not more than
I per cent, of the people will have seen the ocean;
very few of them want to. They buy nothing from
outside the United States; they sell nothing outside.
How could these people feel that they were person-
ally interested in a war in Europe?
One thing they know about war. They know' it
is the most serious thing in the world. They know
it is the thing that nations should only engage in
when they are driven to it. Older countries have
got into the habit of thinking lightly of “little
wars.” We bate them, because we have that fusing
against interfering with other people’s independence.
We can only go to war when we are forced to it
by irresistible logic. The defendant has to be put
in the box and the case against him has to he
proved up to the liilt. We wouldn't take one man’s
life without that trial; you often see with what
elaborate care we have safeguarded even the indivi-
dual, so that he may get the benefit of the very last
point in his "favor. We know war means taking
many lives. Can’t you see how we must regard
that?
You think we have been slow to act. We have
been acting all the time. The parties have been on
their trial. We cannot in such a matter let friend-
ship sway us. It would be an awful miscarriage of
justice if it did. That is why, if you will let me
say so, this final decision of ours is so important.
Historically important, in particular. We have done,
with the facts before ns, what the historian tries
to do with the facts often blurred. After the most
patient trial that a nation could ever hope for, we
have found Germany guilty.
I see the -Peace ladies and "gentlemen are meeting
and resolving this and that in Melbourne. I don’t
suppose they will be influenced by anything anybody
else does or says; but it does seem to me that this
decision of the United States ought to help in
removing the last vestige of doubt about the justice
of the war that the Australian is fighting.
THE WOWSER!
THE AUTISTIC ONE : “Did you notice the
lovely sunrise this morning?"
THE MATERIAL ONE: “Goodness, no! Dad
insists on our always being home not
later than 2 a.m.”
AMERICA AWAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.lowu on die awful trumpet of the truth,
The challenge shrills across the battle sky
From a full-staturod nation that in youth
With fiery purpose faced and fought the lie
That men wore puppets for the sport of kings.
Vow every wind the new-old message flings
That Massachusetts heard at Plymouth Rock :
And despots, crouching in the scorn of things,
Hear the long- blast and wait the coming shock.
The strong men born where once Miles Standish
strode,
The kin of them that fought at: bunker Hill
Or died when stalwart Lincoln blazed a road
For freedom's feet to places wider still,
Have found their voice in him whose statesman tones
Cause a loud clatter through tin' world’s dry bones.
The ancient fires from sober manhood break
And earth, rejoicing through her travail, owns
The splendor of America awake!
Long were they patient. Long the world went wrong.
Heedless they seemed'save of the turning wheel
That set all manhood to a dollar’s song.
Earth’s tattered freedom empty of appeal
Seemed to their tight-shut hearts when that wild
flood
Of lust and steel had filled the lands with blood.
Dead was their fame, their pride in tinsel drest,
And withered both the blossom and the bud
Of Liberty once fragrant in the West.
Men dying in their agony for right
Mocked at the giant warring with a pen,
At. Notes that fluttered in their feeble flight
To stay the Beast that drank the blood of men.
And while they mocked, that giant, open-eyed,
Restrained his hand and I bored down his pride,
In higher scorn of force where force seemed shame,
Till Ihe fed wind of falsehood on the tide
blew his tremendous purpose into flame.
blood must still flow. The fires of hell shall rage
On the. long front of battle grimly set;
but through the flaming death earth turns a page
White and unstained by tears of old regret.
The foeinan breaks; and, proud in Victory’s van,
Floats o’er the wrecks the conquering flag of Man...
Softly the springtime crowns a world of peace;
And men forget the biller blood that ran
When we and they joined hearts that war might
cease.
x.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT:


m
a pair of real
Gabardine Riding'
Trousers for 25/-
TO ORDER
-
THERE is no cloth better suited than REAR
Gabardine for Riding Pants.
The wear is there without undue weight,
whilst the texture is fine, allowing the garments
to make up and to look well.
This is an exceptional offer to secure the
real Gabardine at a price considerably lower
than it can ever be offered at again -
SHADES : GREEN. GREY. FAWN & CREAM.
SEND FOR FREE PATTERNS TO-DAY.
PIKE BROTHERS L
IMITED,
’ Brisbane.
WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
dr tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
—••Calitig.” There is no need to. put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
you good the moment you take it —at any
hour —and cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away ;
you will lie yourself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages ; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—iiK bottles of two sizes, 1/M and
1/0. ‘ [2
“May M.’s” little sidelight:—
I am a bush teacher, boarding with German dairy
farmers. Among the farm herd was a Jersey bull
which seemed to have a special aversion to anything
in petticoats. As he was allowed to roam at his own
sour will I feared trouble and ventured to suggest
that he should be either chained up or got rid of. One
morning the elderly t’rau, on going out to milk, was
rolled over, and only for the dogs she would probably
have been killed. Still Robin remained on the pre-
mises, But on returning after the last holidays I
found that the bull was gone. Inquiring of the head
of the house I was told sadly: “Yaas, he vas gone;
he vent for me !”
SOFTENING THE BLOW.
HE: “Has that chap been making lore to
you?”
SHE: “Yes, hubby; but you could teach him
ever so much.”
OUT FOR COMPANY.
“Your husband spends a lot of time at his club, doesn’t he?”
“Yes, poor bog, he doesn't like slopping at home alone.”
“Good Australian” : China is waking. At
a rdeent meeting of the San Francisco Labor
Council a letter was received from llong
Fee. of Shanghai, typewritten in excellent
English, asking for information. Hong
wanted copies of the constitutions, rules and
by-laws of American labor unions because
lie had founded “the Chinese National Labor
Union” and wished to extend the organisa-
tion throughout China. Up till now Chinese
workmen have been united in tongs called
the Hip Sings, the Bing Kong's and the
Suey Sings, which are practically groups
of laborers firmly bound together and con-
trolled by a headman and a “highbinder”
or assassin. These tongs are hired out to
employers of labor and are sweated by then-
own bosses. Hong Fee and his friends want
them in future to work for themselves
under modern political labor conditions. It
remains to be seen how the mandarins will
take this new movement. But there is no
doubt at all as to how Australia should
view it. Everything that makes Ah Now a
higher-priced Chinaman tends not only to
make him a less dangerous trade com-
petitor, but also to reduce the vast gulf that
lies between his mode of living and ours.
* * * *
“8.T.”: Phinny is president of our
shire and the orator of the district. Coun-
cillor (let’s say) Murphy was leaving, and
Phinny made “the speech of the evening”
at a farewell feed tendered “as a mark -of
appreciation on the part of his fellow shire
councillors and the prominent men of the
district.” Said Phinny : “Gintlemen, • we’re
findin’ ourselves in throublous times. The
wor-rld’s in a shtate iv steadfast oncer-
tninty. Rushy is in the times iv a great
revolution; France is triminjously disli-
turbed ; Americky will be about to preshipi-
tate herself into the vortex: Oireland is
torn wid doubts and dissinsions; England is
trimblin’ on the eve iv an exthraordinary
political upheaval; an’, the saints be wid us
in our days iv throuble and perplexity, our
frin’d Peter Murphy is goin’ away from
Tcrallibin !”
# *' * *
“E.D.”: Many definitions of the word
“wowser” have been provided, but none quite
fills the bill. In a hot corner of Fitzroy
(Melbourne) the other evening, a crowd of
eight hoodlums got at a man who was home-
ward wending his weary way, with a bottle
of beer in each coat pocket. His offence lay
in his being found in possession of bottles
reasonably supposed to be full. The push
became very earnest in its raid, and getting
the man down trod all across him. At this
stage ray friend Bright, who is an excellent
middle-weight wrestler, with a nice assort-
ment of Jap devices for dislocating bones,
arrived and took a hand. In 52sec. the
push was scattered far and wide; and as
Bright stood over the prostrate victim, invit-
ing further resistance, a disgusted female
voice in tin- line of spectators snorted two
words —“Yah, wowser !”
The discovery on the Western Front of a
German spy armed with microbes for the
infection of horses is a reminder of the story
told by Bourchier, the Times correspondent,
three months ago concerning packages of
human-disease microbes found buried in the
German Legation at Bucharest. The TJ.S.
Legation had a hand in this hellish dis-
covery. and it probably had something to
do with the recent more rapid development
of President Wilson’s views on the war.
After a day out: —•
One perfect day of late a party of Sydney press-
men stood overlooking the sleepy Bathurst Plains and
admiring the Streeton view while the business-like
owners of the mountain told them how many million
tons of molybdenite ore were under their feet. Long
before Evolution produced the Germans who made the
first molybdenite-steel guns and smashed a way into
France with them, Nature flung a gigantic blanket
of what the miners call “Molly-be-night” over the
lucky mountain ; now the optimists who are going to
work it with the whole scientific armory can show
the visitor the sites of future towns in the valley
over which the hawks float undisturbed. They have
a solid foundation to build their castles on. Over
an area of hundreds of acres open cuts and the dia-
mond drill have proved the existence everywhere of
ore carrying the twinkling, soft blue-grey metal. It’s
the accessibility and quantity that are going to
count, for this is no “pipe, - ’ but a hill of ore.
Apparently steel as we know it now is a mere half-
baked product. Add molybdenite, and you get some-
thing which mocks at corrosion and rust, or toughens
machine-tools until they can be worked 10 times
as fast and continue to cut steel when red hot with
friction. Present price ranges from V 525 a ton in
the Commonwealth to £7OO in the open market; and
the men of the mountain expect it to go higher
when the steel-makers of the world find there is a
big enough heap to allow them to calculate on con-
stant supplies. Their heads are in the clouds but
their feet are on solid rock. If half their dreams
come true, Australia will be rubbing its eyes pre-
sently.
* * * *
Australian Government departments just
seem to love muddle. To avoid the crowd-
ing that had become the rule in the inter-
state expresses the Vie. Railways not so
many weeks ago decreed that seats could be
reserved on payment of a nominal fee. The
innovation was gladly availed of by pas-
sengers and proved in every way a success.
This naturally sent the Department scurry-
ing round wondering how it could nullify
the good it had done. It found a way. Dur-
ing the Easter holiday, when business-like
methods are most called for, it reverted to
the old disorder of things, and beloved Chaos
came again.
“Cape Helles”: “Bill ' Bowyang” (B.
22/8/T7) is talking through his haversack
when he avers that half of the bayonet light-
ing drummed into swaddies here in Aus-
tralia is rot. His anecdote of how he coun-
tered tin 1 big Turk at Anzac sounds uncon-
vincing to one who has been both at Anzac
and at a bayonet-fighting school. There are
several erstwhile staff-sergeant-majors, now
sergeants with the A.1.F., who, if given the
service rifle with the pointed end, will
engage to deal effectively with any opponent,
armed with any make of foreign bayonet,
jiu-jitsu, boxing trick or telegraph-pole. In
fact, nothing short of a pintpot will knock
some of them out.
“Country Pod": Here in Victoria a book
called "The Young Marooners" is used as a
supplementary reader in State schools for
grades 5 and ti. The stilted old relic was
first published in ’52. and is the story of
three boys and their sister marooned on an
island off the coast of Florida. Note their
ages: Robert 14. Harold 34A. Mary 31.
Frank eight. Now listen to the little prigs
speaking:—-
Frank: lint, father, had we not better carry the
umbrella ?
Hubert: One of us ought to go and see what those
dogs are about, and since you took your turn, I pre-
sumo it is mi business now.
Mary: l)o, if you please, stop talking about
snakes! Suppose we return to our old encampment?
Imagine a modern boy of 14 saying “I pre-
sume”; and one of eight "Had we not.” They
would be stoned for it if their playmates
weren’t all pale Fauntleroys in velvet suits
and lace collars. It isn’t fair to the young-
sters to feed them on this dead stuff. There
are vast libraries of suitable modern books,
some of them by Australian writers. In
previous years the books oil these Aus-
tralians have been used: two by Mary Grant
Bruce, one by Charles Barret, and one by
Mrs. /Eneas Gunn. The Director of Eduea :
tion now proposes to revert to Readers.
Let’s hope that the books will be compiled
with discretion and some regard for national
sentiment.
“H.D.”: Look what education does for
Bob in Adelaide! It is the Department of
Agriculture calling tenders for an assistant
librarian: —•
Qualifications required—
(a) The general education must bo sufficient to be
of service in assisting with the classification and
indexing of Departmental Library.
(b) Proficiency in Shorthand and Typewriting.
(i ) Experience in Shorthand Reporting.
(d) Ability to assist in the Sub-Editing of papers
on agricultural subjects for publication in the Jour-
nal of Agricultcuk. Salary £175 per annum.
Why didn’t they add “(e) no nose-powdering
in office hours,” and thus give the straight
tip to males to go to the war and give the
girls a chance?
“S.A.” : Judge Gordon wasn't the first to
draw attention to the shocking inadequacy
of the S. Aus. law for the protection of very
young girls Two years’ gaol is the maxi-
mum for offences of that kind. In the early
days of the colony the'residents of Walker-
ROUND ’N’ ROUND ’N’ ROUND.
SHE: “Are you going to come round after
the show?”
HE (gallantly) : “No. I’m going to come
wound after the pwize exhibit!”
villi- registered their kick. They took the
brute to a suitable tree near the Torrens,
put him on the tail of a cart, flung one end
of a hay-rope over a limb and kept his neck
warm with the other. The father of the
child then whipped up the horse —and the
crowd left. No subsequent fuss was made
about it. The beast’s relatives buried the
body and were satisfied to let it go at that.
WHIN BILLJIM TAKES JERUSALEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Billjim, that rather casual bloke,
]» plugging on upon his moke
Vcross tlie endless desert sand ;
For he a holy vow lias made
To free Christ’s City from the yoke
Of Saladin, the Infidel;
In brief, he means to “give him hell!
Ami so, in knightly garb arrayed,
lie’s starting on the Last Crusade,
A pilgrim to the Holy Land!
What Hit hard failed to do he dares.
I pon his heart he proudly wears
The symbol that, to endless loss,
Drew Christendom for centuries.
The Cross that lie triumphant bears
Was planked eternally on high
In Billjim's own Australian sky.
What price the Crescent when it sees
Before the Holy City these
Crusaders of the Southern Cross ?
When he, to his amusement, found
He stood at last on Holy Ground,
His conduct wowsers might condemn.
So he had crossed the frontier-line?
He merely spat and looked around,
And, waiting till he should be shelled,
A little two-up school he held.
lli* troubles over Palestine!
So don’t expect heroics fine
When Billjim takes Jerusalem!
Billjim the casual won’t enthuse
Over tlie city—what's the use?
“Australia’s good enough for nr,”
lie in his letter will confess.
“Dear Kid, this conies from old .Joron:;.
There's nothing doing, but we've found
On Calvary a football ground.
We’re dossing here a while, I guess,
So send a note to this address:
My dug-out in Gethsemane.”
Billjim will not go on his knees
When old Jerusalem he sees,
For only ruins it will be
In fact, ’twill be a holy show,
lie’ll note the stenches and the fleas,
And maybe poke about to find
If any boose was left behind.
lie’ll find sight-seeing too slow;
Somehow I think he’d rather go
A-surfing in the old Dead Sea!
The old Crusaders, grey and grim,
Have left this little job to him—
The job that proved too much for them !
They hail him, all those dauntless dumb,
The noble Bill, the valiant Jim!
His star-crossed banner, from his sky
Presumptuous torn, he raises high,
And winks derision at his chum.
What Billjim jokes and yarns will come
When Billjim takes Jerusalem !
X.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


BETWEEN TWO TUNES.


THE BILL.
SATAN: “The time has come, I think!”


DON’T NEGLECT DYSPEPSIA.
A DANGEROUS POLICY LEADING TO
UNTOLD MISERY LATER ON.
Untold misery invariably results from
neglect of the early symptoms of indigestion
and dyspepsia, and there is always the possi-
bility that stomach ulceration or gastritis
may develop. That is why it is so dan-
gerous for those who experience pain after
eating, with a flushed face, heartburn, etc.,
to wait and see if the symptoms will sub-
side of- their own accord or become worse.
Be assured that they will certainly become
worse unless you take steps to neutralise
the acid, which is the root cause of the
trouble. To neutralise acid in the stomach,
and so prevent food fermentation and un-
pleasantness after meals, is quite an easy
matter. Simply get some bisurated mag-
nesia from the chemist, and take half a tea-
spoonful in a little water immediately after
meals. This plan is surely preferable to
dosing the stomach with drugs or confining
yourself to an unattractive diet of easily-
digested foods. It enables you to eat freely
of the foods you fancy, for by taking the
bisurated magnesia you keep the stomach
quite free from acid and prevent all possi-
bility of food fermentation. Food remains
bland and sweet until perfectly digested, and
consequently there is no pain. This plan is
recommended by many specialists, and is
worthy of a thorough trial by all; but to
avoid confusion with the acetates, citrates,
or oxides of magnesia, readers should ask
the chemists very distinctly for the bisurated,
the form prepared especially for stomach
use.—Apvt.
m
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
YiCaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
/
tf-M.
The
mi
mm 4
Goldfinder 'Soap
LEWIS & WniTTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Fkrrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(aILBEY’S
PRY (aIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
Dead at 82, George Brown, Methodist mis-
sionary, who started* converting the Samoan
away back in IS6O. .and for the best part of
40 years—in Fiji, New Guinea, New Britain
find other parts of the Pacific —struggled
against the Devil and all his works. Brown
had a very adventurous life as a young
man, and showed that he had not forgotten
some of its teachings when for the protection
of himself and others lie led a punitive expe-
dition against a cannibal tribe who slew some
native teachers in Papua in ’7B. He was
an authority .on Polynesian dialects and
owner of a very fine collection of island
curios. Like Lawes and others, Brown adver-
tised the devastating'effects of living in the
tropics by outlasting most of the people he
knew during early life in colder lands. The
last few years were spent at Gordon, a sub-
urb of Sydney. He was a spare, erect old
man, active right up to the last and might
well have passed for 65.
DELICATE.
OFFICER (affably) : “Hullo, making a cup
of tea?"
BILLJIM: “No, sir; the doctor ordered me
ter take a ’ot bath every mornin', and
I'm just warming it up."
For sheer bad luck and sacrifice in war,
Mrs. Mara, a widow of Jamestown (S.A.),
takes a top place. Five sons went on active
service. Three were killed; the other two
are prisoners in the hands of the eiflemy.
Australia has a new baronet —Sir Har-
court Lees, now storekeeper at the Naval
Office, Fremantle (W.A.). and until lately a
Westralian cocky. His father died in the
U.S.A., and if lie left a million he made it
himself. His grandfather was the Rev.
Ilarcourt Lees. Bart., who was the C’. of E.
parson in a little village called Rssexford,
County Louth. Ireland —a jolly old fellow
liked by everybody, even by the It.C.’s who
had to help support him.
A view of Hughes from the outskirts of a
crowd:—
A tiny figure emerged On the platform and in-
stantly noted the film cameras that blinked down at
him. He began to speak, but the voice had cracked.
All that the main part of the crowd could do was
to watch. He began sedately, peering sideways
with sharp little eyes and with an occasional slight
gesture of one awkward arm. Then it seemed as if
someone who should have been attending to the
business of pulling the strings woke up. The
grotesque figure quivered, shook itself, jerked out
strangely long arms in a curious, mechanical way,
while the mouth moved with the speed of the cranks
of the film cameras. Those wooden arms, to which
great clutching hands were attached by big, bony
wrists, flung themselves, with a gesture strangely
mechanical, straight up to Heaven, the claw-
like fingers fiercely crooked, and then mechanically
straight down to- his sides, like Billjim cutting away
his hand after a salute. That was his chief gesture,
but now and then he varied it by jerking his arms
wide, flinging one long limb across his body from
right to left, grabbing in those eager claws great
handfuls of atmosphere and stuffing them into his
trouser pockets, or striking two very long, lean
fingers in the palm of his other hand. The cinema
men gave up turning their handles; they could not
keep up with the perpetual motion of that pirouetting
marionette.
[Arthur 11. Adams, Cremorne, Sydney.]
A WAY THEY HAVE IN THE
ARMY.
OFFICER: “Have you a drill-book with
you, Jones?"
JONES: “No, sir: but I can tell you anything
you're not quite sure about."
Passed out, at Ivatanning, Westralia,
James Francis Cullen, M.L.C., proprietor
of the Southern Argus newspaper, and
brother of Chief Justice Cullen, of N. S.
Wales. J.F. was originally a Congrega-
tional minister, but left the pulpit to enter
politics; he sat for St. Leonards in the N.
S. Wales Leg. Ass. from 1889-1894. and for
Willoughby for four months in ’94. when
he resigned. Brother William, now Chief
Justice, also had a seat (Camden) in
1891-4. Cullen, who had hard financial
times in the early ’9o’s, went to the. West
in 1894 and got elected to the Leg.
there in 1906.
E. M. Smith has just been pushed out of
the Surveyor-General’s chair in S. Aus.. for
being 70. He came to Australia at three,
was in the field at 12, in command of a
survey party at 19, then with Goyder in the
Northern Territory to settle claims there,
«nd in the office from 1871 onwards. When
he entered the service Mount Gambier was
an isolated settlement in the bush, and
northward cultivation did not extend beyond
Clare. The veteran, who neither looks nor
feels his age, proposes to travel for a year
and then go into business on his own
account.
Nineteen years old and sft. 11in. little.
Ernest Albert Dartnell, specially passed
by the P.M.0., has enlisted in Mel-
bourne. He is the younger brother of
the late Lieut. Wilbur Dartnell. the first
actor to win the Victoria Cross in this war.
lie gained it in East Africa,, in circumstances
told at the time by The Bulletin. The
younger brother is a Collingwood sawyer,
and the depth and height of his. desire is to
reduce the Hun to dust. 5
Hughes’s adversity has made Willie Kelly
acquainted with strange bedfellows. In-
cluded in the Phewsion ticket are Dick
Sleath and W. J. Ferguson, two of the
leaders of the big Broken Hill strike of ’92
which landed them both in gaol for conspi-
racy. Both were afterwards N. S. Wales
Labor members; but they dropped out over
15 years ago.
Died in Adelaide last week. E. 11. Coombe,
politician and journalist. Much of his life
was spent at Gawler, where for many years he
edited the Bunyip and did odd jobs for the
Register. It was a 8. Australian habit to
send the local editor to Parliament; Fred
Holder, afterwards Speaker of the House of
Reps., ran the little weekly Record when
the Burra first sent him to the State
Assembly. For years Coombe was an Inde-
pendent in politics; then he took his party
of one bodily over to the Labor side and
also for a while ran the party’s daily Herald
in Adelaide.
The Balaclava (Vic.) campaign commit-
tee. looking for a man to oppose Willie Watt,
decided to call for further nominations,
whereupon A. E. Foster, a young barrister
from Brighton, buzzed in and won the ballot.
Foster is a militant Laborite and the author
of the “Proclamation Illegal” pamphlet
which fluttered out on an astonished popu-
lace some time back.
Chris Bennett, the Laborite who is oppos-
ing Manifold at Corangamitc (Vic.), was
formerly secretary of the Biscuit Makers’
Union, and later organised for the Implement
Makers. Then he did a term as president
of Melbourne Trades Hall Council, and now
he is secretary of the Blacksmiths’ Union. A
versatile tradesman is Christopher.
Died, at 71, while driving his last fare,
John Shaw, Launceston’s best-known inhabi-
tant. In the ’6o’s the Fields grazed cattle
all over Northern Tasmania, and Shaw was
one of six brothers who were stock-riders for
them. Later on, he was coachdriver for Mrs.
Wm. Hart. When she bought a motor she
presented Shaw with the horses and turnout,
and the old man with the white mutton-chop
whiskers went out with the ribbons still in
his hands.
Colonel John Henry Cann now! Some
years ago all the Railway Commissioners in
all the States were made colonels, and once
they actually held a conference with
the Defence Department and discov-
ered that the latter’s notions about the
railway systems of Australia and the
time it would take to shift troops were
funnier than any other show then on
in Melbourne. All the railway colonels
were provided with glorious uniforms
—a couple of them apiece, magnificent
with bullion. Also, there was a sword
and, if you please, spurs. Apparently
for this ghastly extravagance one dear
old gentleman who ran the railways of
one of the little States was responsi-
ble. He loved to swank at Govern-
ment House. It is doubtful whether
the others have ever put on the glad
rags that cost this long-suffering coun-
try about £BO per “colonel.”
J. F. Cullen, who died in Westralia the
other day, was one of old Henry Parkes’s
last Parliamentary colleagues. There are
only handful left of those who sat in the
N.S.W. Assembly before the Labor flood of
’9l. Waddell, thrown out the other day.
was senior member for Bourke, .Toe
Carruthers was one of the four members for
Canterbury, George Fuller was sitting for
Kiama for the first time, Bruce Smith was
at the Glebe, and Chanter, also of late in
the House of Reps., was already an old in-
habitant in the Murray seat. .T. G. Griffin,
now of the Water and Sewerage Board,
made one of his multitudinous attempts to
enter Parliament at St. Leonards in the
year when old-man Parkes and Cullen were
elected along with old-man Parkes’s famous
Treasurer “Cocky” Burns. It was through
a painful dissection of poor little Burns’s
last Budget speech that Wm. McLinen was
hailed as a Heaven-sent financier.
An unusual kind of concert was given at
the Melbourne Benevolent Asylum the other
evening. It was a compliment to one of
the inmates. Miss Anastasia Leahy, to mark
the anniversary of her admission to the insti-
tution. where she has resided for 60 years.
The old colonist, blind at an early age,
entered the home when she was only 19.
“Little Billy’s” old West Sydney is to be
represented by Con Wallace, of the Seamen’s
Union. Whoever gets the Labor selection
gets the seat, so there was a scramble for
it. Apparently, little William had left the
machinery in his old electorate in such dis-
order that everything in connection with the
preliminary “go” was soon in a tangle, and
finally the executive had to make the choice.
Included in the scramble were Randolph
Bedford and S. A. Rosa —Randolph known
to everybody: Rosa. who. John Norton being
dead, now writes alliteratives for Truth.
Senator Watson lias retained Melbourne
solicitor Holmes to defend him in the Hughes
libel case. Holmes is a well-known militant
Laborite, and will carry the banner in East
Gippsland at the next Vic. State elections.
THE UNLUCKY ONE.
HE: “But what arc you worryin' so much
about me for? Ho you love me better
than all the other soldier boys you said
you loved?"
SHE: “No, but you're the thirteenth."
A veteran brewer has gone out of business
in Adelaide. Beaglehole' had been head of
what is now the Lion Brewery since 1874.
The present co. was floated in 1888, and he
lias been its only managing director so far.
Now he takes a rest.
E. W. Cole, Melbourne’s Book Arcadian,
used to spread the light in another way. In
the very early days of Gastlemaine (Vic.)
he had the lamplighting contract at £7O a
year:
Under sod, James Cripps. lie took the
shilling in Ireland in 1848, and received in
exchange the uniform of the 90th Regiment.
When the last convict ship (# Australia, The
Hashemy, arrived in Port Jackson, Cripps
was standing to arms aboard.
Christopher Allanby, who died in the Cold
Country lately, had expounded the Word in
Ballarat (Vic.) for 52 years (1862 to 1914).
Born at Sorell (Tas.) in 1836, Allanby was
one of the first students trained for the
Anglican priesthood at Moore College—then
at Liverpool (N.S.W.), but since removed to
Sydney. Dr. Perry, who wore the first
Anglican gaiters in Melbourne, ordained him
and sent him as a Curate to Ballarat in 1862.
He stayed four years in his first parish and
48 in his second, and for the last 20 years
had sported an archdeacon’s spats. »
Dead at Ashfield (N.S.W.), aged 74,
William Mylecharane, an old-time licensed
surveyor who practised on the Blue Moun-
tains for about 40 years and was responsible
for the survey of Lithgow, where years later
the Australian steel industry was born.
Died at Brighton (Eng.), George F. Cross,
best known as husband of “Ada Cambridge.”
Cross came to Australia from St. Augus-
tine’s College, Canterbury, as a deacon in
IS7O, and was ordained in Melbourne as an
Anglican priest the next year. He first flut-
tered the leaves of. the pulpit Bible at Yack-
andandali (Vic.), and finally settled as vicar
at Williamstown (1893 to 1909). For some
years he was minor canon and precentor of
Melbourne Cathedral.
Robert Baldwin Ross has been appointed
art adviser in London to the Felton Bequest,
and is leaving for Australia to become more
or less acquainted with local conditions. The
Melbourne dailies speak of him as a man of
wide literary and artistic knowledge, but do
not mention his association with Oscar
Wilde as friend, biographer and literary ex-
ecutor. Ross stuck to Oscar when to be a
friend of his was to be a target for every
mud-slinger in England, then in the throes of
one of its moral spasms. He comforted
Wilde in prison, succored him in poverty,
and was with him when he died. He has
written by far the most complete and authen-
tic biography of his friend, edited his
posthumous works, and carried to success a
scheme for erecting a monument over the
poet’s grave at Pere Lachaise. Ross was for
some years art critic of London Morning
Post, and has written on art, literature
and drama for most of the best English
papers. His mother was a daughter of
Robert Baldwin, Canada’s first Premier.
A CONTEMPORARY PORTRAIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.—AND NOT BY A.H.A. EITHER. ]
Quilp’s figure, Machiavelli’s mind,
Carlyle’s inside—get these to fuse,
And the result might be consigned
To London labelled “Julius Caesar.”
(No reflection is intended on Julius Ccesar. The
writer merely uses Jule's name to avoid a prosecu-
tion, under the War Precautions Act, for discouraging
■ recruiting.)
A votary of Jingo cant
(Bruce Smith, say) take; in him infuse
A Yarra Banker’s power to rant,
And you'll get someone just like Chris-
topher Columbus.
(Chris is employed for the sate of the rhyme.)
Grab any egomaniac,
And stuif him full of Northcliffe views;
Hire Duchesses to scratch his back,
And he may even be as the Last of the
Mohicans.
(The L. of the ill. is understood to be dead, and is
not under the special protection of the Cen&or.)
Acquire a greedy kid and place
Him in a tart-shop ; then refuse
Him leave to gorge for life —the case
Will be like that of Chunder Loo.
(Por further information about Jtoo inquire, of the
advertising manager.)
Ten cubic feet of gas obtain,
Add next the odors from, a mews,
Force through an ancient sewer-main
The smell will be
(Well, it will be the sort of smell that a lloyal
Commission should be ashed to inquire into.)
[Composed, on a Sunday, by B. J. llauuison
Owkn, Glenhuntly Road, Elwood, Vic.]


i
L)
Mii|r
-
/
‘-xcSSiV™
mugfs^s^xm^aSS
m
sMM
mm
uptli
!mi
fcssSsKwS
s®
«,v
•L^i
SSil
SSSg
§§BsSs2
SB
HM
M
mim!
09.
'O
-^aa
/
r\
spssi
E^iSSSS
husb
//✓
MSSSfIi
?^^lgi»!i
ggs
gr
i»
a*?
X
«S 9
mu
m*
i<~
fe-Sfe
MS
.''-'V.-'-jP
SB»K
f
r,vJ
H
mm
mmmm
,v?i*.
■sss%BpB»??»- ? >^
lrnmmm
M
ww
l.‘<2r,
m
feml
2«SC
sss-Siia
X-X'
m
ws
mm
iW:i
m
■mmm>
uSSC
r
VIST*
I-itf*
•>3
H s
»=
s^w
soSj V> «fj» -J>:
&
6®K@
MS
BS&JSSi
'd'fi'K'h
kX
?V ,,, v
j&Sr*
vMI
THERE are many men who look
for and expect nothing better
in Ready-to-Wear Clothes than
something to put on in an emergency or to
wear as a makeshift. To these men the
character of an “Austral ” Sac Suit, Ready-
to-Wear, is as unusual as it is unexpected. Quality of High-Grade
Fabric and the finish of garments that have been honestly tailored
make a pleasing first impression, heightened at once by the range
of smart Sac Suit Styles which in turn await inspection and the
final, choice. But the most striking feature of all is revealed in
the fitting of Garments which for any man of normal proportions
might have been specially made.
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
484-490 George St, 3-17 Royal Arcade.
New Branch Shop at 304 George St. (near Hunter St.), Sydney,
AUSTRAL Sac Suits
READY TO WEAR
ALL SAC COAT STYLES are single-breasted, but
two- or three-button Coats are available, with
or without seam and vent back; the newer
models have an outside breast pocket, and are cut
slightly shorter and with less fulness. Vests are
quite plain, with medium opening, and the Trousers
are smartly cut, and may be had either with plain
bottoms or permanently upturned.
50/-
At this price choice is offered of
medium-weight English Tweeds, for
the most-part in shades of grey and
brown. The patterns are quiet
stripe effects of varied design.
.Plain fabrics are also available in
similar colorings.
50/-
63/-
Fox’s Navy Serge is featured in
our range of Three Guinea Sac
Suits. In addition choice may be
made of patterned and plain
Tweeds and Worsteds, including
stripe and check designs and pin-
spot effects. The colorings include
light and dark grey and shades of
brown.
63 1-
751-
The Soft Finished West of England
Tweeds available at this price are
particularly attractive, both in
design and varied colorings. Mar-
rickville Tweeds may also be
chosen in a variety of patterns.
Scotch Tweeds in grey heather
mixtures are also included, and in-
vite a close inspection.
75 1-
84-
High-grade English and Scotch
Tweeds and Worsteds. Marrick-
ville Tweeds and Worsteds, and
Soft Finished Scotch Tweeds offer
a pleasing and varied choice of
Sac Suits at Four Guineas. Color-
ings of both plain and patterned
fabrics include brown and grey
shades, and navy tweeds with hair-
line stripe. Twill and rough-
finished navy serges are also avail-
able.
84/-
Country Customers in ordering by Mail will ensure a
satisfactory fit if the following measures are given:
Chest measure over vest, waist measure under vest, and
length of inside-leg measure from fork to heel of boot.
Carriage is Paid on all Country Orders.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty. r Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE. ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES. containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretarj’.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine D/namite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON U STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Aug., 'O9. . 16,663 12 p.c.= 11,025 2500 3,138 190,903
leh., ’10..16,346 12 „ ~11,156 2500 2,690 193,593
Aug-., ’lO.. 16,575 12 ~ ~11,156 2500 2,919 196,512
l'’eb., ’11..20,133 14 „ ~12,862 4000 3,271 199,783
Aug., ’11..17,965 14 ~ ~12,862 5,103 204,886
Feb., ’12..17,941 14 ~'1,12,862 5,079 209,965
Aug., ’12..17,221 14 „ ;, 12,862 4,359 214,324
Feb., ’13.. 17,987 14 „ ~12,862 5,125 219,449
Aug., ’13..18,071 14 „ ~12,862 5,209 224,658
Premiums on new shares . . 25,000 249,658
Feb., ’14.. 19,931 14 p.e.= 14,700 5,231 254,889
Aug., ’14..18,188 14 „ ~14,700 3,488 258,377
Feb., ’15..19,743 14 „ ~14,700 5,043 263,420
Aug., ’16..17,426 14 ~ ~14,700 2,726 266,146
Feb., ’16..20,375 14 „ ~14,700 4200 1,475 267,621
Aug., ’16..17,837 14 , % ~14,700 3,137 270,758
Feb., ’17..20,516 14 „ ~14,700 4200 1616 272,374
That is a bigger profit than has been claimed
for any previous half-year. But the com-
parison is hardly fair, because prior to 1!)14
there was less capital in the business. Still,
giving all that in, the result is astonishingly
good considering that we have now had
nearly three years of war. It sets , ope
speculating whether wars have nowadays
the same financial effect that they had at
one time. Formerly, we know, they reduced
countries to destitution and misery. Now
we see far more cos. showing bigger profits:
than lesser ones, taking the pre-war figures
as a standard. What does it mean? The
.lommotion is too big to allow us to get a
grip of the facts. Let tis reduce it to
smaller proportions.
Assume that two small islands got to
loggerheads. Half of the population of each,
instead of going about their productive jobs,
knock off to kill one another. While they
fight they are fed and clothed at a cost far
m excess of what it would run to under
normal conditions. Nothing is surer than
that the wealth of those two islands must
suffer. Half the population has stopped
the production of wealth and become rapid
consumers of it. In other words, as an
average, every man in those islands has less
wealth than he had. Yet. as we see, most
concerns might and probably would show
bigger profits and bigger accumulations. The
thing is done by the simple process of print-
ing a certain quantity of paper. This paper
is a promise to pay in the future. That is
to say, man has invented a means by which
he can draw against future production, thus
neutralising the adverse effect of a shrink-
age in current production. What would
happen, for instance, if in Australia all the
paper that has been printed to finance this
war were to-morrow declared by some
unthought-of power to be valueless? Plainly
some tens of thousands of people, who now
think they are a bit better off than tiiey
were when the war started, would be in the
aggregate many millions worse off- and
only a comparatively few people would be
better off—those whose added wealth is in
merchandise and bank deposits, etc. In the
aggregate, however, the country would be
none the worse off if it bought reproductive
assets with the millions. The important
thing, therefore, is to ascertain what has
been done with the paper.
%
\ ast sums have been spent in paying sol-
diers outside Australia. That money is gone
altogether. Australia out of its future earn-
ings will have to make up every penny of it.
Other vast sums have gone in clothing and
feeding soldiers at home. That monev lias
b«en "! ostl - v s l ,ont on Australian products.
Billjim s clothing outfit alone has probably
cost £lO a head. That has meant £lO dis-
tributed among Australian producers. But
the £lO has none the less to be paid back.
It will, however, be more easily paid back
than the other, because the £lO has been put
into wages, etc., in this country. But that
£lO hasn’t added a farthing to the wealth
of the country, because the man on whom
the £lO was spent hasn’t used it for produc-
tive purposes. The position may be made
plainer by considering a case of this kind
A municipality borrows £lO,OOO to build a
town hall. It spends the £lO.OOO. and then
the place is immediately burned down. It
is true that local masons and carpenters
and quarry men have got the bulk of the
£10,000: but (‘veil if they had got every
penny of it tuey would lie only square, be-
cause they, as a community, would owe the
whole of it. And if £5OOO of it had been
spent on buying foreign slates and steel-
work. etc., they would be £5OOO worse off.
And if the workers had spent £2OOO of their
earnings in buying foreign food and clothes
out of their wages on the job, the commu-
nity would be £7OOO worse off. In other
words, they would have to make up out of
their future earnings, by taxation, enough to
repay the money to the people who lent it.
The important point is that the destruction
of the town hall wouldn’t make that com-
munity feel a penny poorer for the moment.
It wouldn’t affect anybody’s bank deposits
or reduce the value of the grocer’s stock by
a farthing. But it would have this result:
it would prevent the £lO,OOO loan earning a
farthing for itself, and would throw the
whole burden of paying interest and repay-
ing principal upon the ratepayers. The posi-
tion is, exactly the same with regard to war
expenditure. To the extent that the money
is spent in the country (and that refers to
the money spent by the people who earn the
money as well as by the Defence Depart-
ment). the people may conveniently pay the
debt, because they have the money. To the
extent to which it is spent outside the
country, we shall out of future earnings
have to make good every penny of it.
Thus banking figures are inflated. They
are stuffed with paper—paper by which the
community promises to pay so much out of
future earnings. Some of it the community
has to pay to itself, which doesn’t matter
much ; much of it the community has to pay
to outsiders, which matters a lot. And
because the gross figures are inflated the
profits.are inflated. There are banks which,
recognising that, are not showing all the
profits they are actually making: by increas-
ing their internal reserves and contingency
funds they are hoping to make their profit's
look better in the days when the spending
will be over and the paying begun, and when
many a security is likely to suffer in conse-
quence. How much we shall suffer depends
then upon our seasons and what our cus-
tomers can afford to pay for our products.
Most of them will be in distress, too; and
prices may suffer seriously.
But unquestionably our position will be
the better because we have been doing a
good deql of what we have made some nastv
remarks- to the TT.S.A. for doing. The
TT.S.A., as we have told one another a thou-
sand times, have been coining money by
selling war necessaries to the Allies at fabu-
lous prices; and Australia has cut in at the
same figure—copper at £ll6. for instance.
On]- misfortune is that the people who are
buying at these prices are paying with loans,
'too: and that fact is liable to seriously affect
their demand for our products in the future
and the prices we shall get for them.
All this has not. more to do with the
Commercial of Tasmania than with any
other hank : but it seems to have consider-
able bearing on the future of all of them.
* * * *
Huddart Parker. Ltd. (Melbourne) :
f Dividends. To Re-
Doc., Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
mil.. ■ £3,565
Reserves.
■J 012. .£93,016 £28,125 7p.c.=£33,125 £31,766 28,201
1913.. 03,058 30,000 5* „ „ 27,500 5,558 33,759
1914.. 00,400 30,000 5~ „ „ 25,000 5,460 39,’219
Profit on sale of assets, plus trans-
ferred from contingency account, 14,136 53,355
1915.. 90,634 30,000 7p.c.= 36.000 25,634 78,989
1916. . 117,140 30,000 10 ~,,50,000 37,140 116,129
The profit for the past year is made up this
way: Profit as per P. and L. account,
£N9,606; additions to Insurance Fund,
£27,584. But besides that the “Reserve
for Contingencies, Commonwealth and Do-
minion taxation, depreciation of property
and shares in other cos., repairs and main-
tenance. boilers and renewals, superannua-
tion fund, etc.,” has increased from £63,812
to £123117 —that is. by £59,305. Whether
that includes all the provision for the year.’s
depreciation is not clear. Perhaps it is
not intended to be clear. On appearances
there is an allowance for ordinary wear and
tear apart from that reserve. There are
two things favoring that theory: (1) the
fixed assets other than shares in other cos.
are included * “at valuation”; (2) certainly
in some previous years not enough has been
added to this reserve for contingencies, etc.,
to cover depreciation of shipping. In 1914
only £5678 was added and in 1915 £27.627
net. It looks, therefore, as though the net
profit was £89,606 plus £27.534 added to
insurance fund (some of this may be called
for later), plus £59,305 added to a contin-
gency account (some of which also is pretty
sure to be called for later). What the true
profits were nobody knows. It is impossible
to give more than an estimate, because
nobody can yet know what the taxes will
be, nor can anyone know precisely how
much the year’s depreciation has been. But
one can feel quite sure that the co. has had
a fatter time than it cares to admit.
Perhaps this comparison may help. It
shows how the assets have moved :
Dec., 1914. Dec., 1915. Dec., 1916.
Ships, etc. .. £857,376 £922,576 £867,300
Cash . . . . 46,875 23,780 56,191
Debts due to co. 69,306 81,979 85,418
Investments . . 191,598 207,697 360,348
Stores . . 34,926 35,061 • 42,895
Total assets £1,200,081 £1,271,093 £1,412,152
Less liabilities 97,177 93,292 132,906
Net assets. . £1,102,904 £1,177,801 £1,279,246
Investments include Government and other
debentures, Government stock and deposits.
Apart from ships, freeholds and leaseholds
and shares in other cos. the net assets in-
creased by £9697 in 1915 and by a further
£156,721 in 1916. No ships were sold in
1916; but some shares in other cos. may
have been. That is the weak link in that
chain. If none were sold, then the co.,
besides paying its dividend and maintaining
its ships, added £156,721 to its more or less
liquid assets out of earnings. But that
wasn’t all profit, even assuming that there
were no sales of shares; for renewal of ships
has to be provided for, as well as war-time
and other taxation. That the figures for
the past year were so much larger than
those for 1915 is partly accountable for
by heavy payments made in 1915 for coal
property and ships. The coal property
includes a very large holding in the Ileb-
burn Colliery (Newcastle), and the co. is
going to do very well out of that by-and-
bye when the world settles down to nurse
its wounds and whip the cat. Meantime
th(> war has probably rather improved than
damaged the trade between the mainland
and Maorilaud and Tasmania, which this co.
cuts up with that other very profitable con-
cern. the Union K.S. Co.; and it has also
had a ship or two taken for deep-sea war-
traffic.
Capital is £1,000,000, half in 6 p.c:. cumu-
lative profs, and half in ordinaries,
£275.000 of each of which were taken by
the vendors in payment for the concern.
Finney, Isles & Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane:—
Towards
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1905.. £4,179 6 p.c. =£1,768 £2,411 £15,155
1906.. 5,323 6 „,, 1,909 3,414 11,741
1907.. 9,457 6 „,, 2,189 7,268 4,473
Reserves.
1008.. 12,767 6 „ „ 3,929 8,838 4,365
1909.. 13,898 6 ~ „ 3,983 9,915 14,280
1910.. 11,694 6 „ „ 4,037 7,657 21,937
1911.. 19,863 8 „,, 6,815 13,048 34,985
Premiums on new shares. . 4,062 39,047
1912.. 16,856 8 p.c. = 13,057 3,799 42,846
1913.. 14,617 8 „,, 12,861 1,756 44,602
1914.. 20,475 8 ~ „ 12,944 7,531 52,133
1915.. 17,744 8 „,, 13,019 4,725 56,858
•lan.j
1916.. 9,269 8 „,, 6,547 2,722 59,580
Transferred to capital, £31,299 .. 28,281
Assets written down, £3037 .. 25,244
1917.. 21,014 8 p.c. = 14,923 6,091 31,335
This energetic co. has had a cleaning-up
during the year. To begin with, it owned
little and owed much; and. being prudent,
men and not politicians, the directors pro-
ceeded as fast as they could to get rid of
the debt that was liable to embarrass them.
They did it by keeping their dividends
modest in spite of great local prosperity
and fine profits; and by the end of 1915,
as the result of 11 years’ trading, they had
put by £72.013 —a splendid performance
considering the co.’s resources to start with.
In other words, instead of having tangible
assets £15,155 less than the capital, they
had at the end of the 11 years all their
capital in tangible assets and £56,858 be-
sides. At this stage the directors recom-
mended a proper enough transfer of un-
divided profit to capital; wherefore 31.299 £1
shares -were issued to old shareholders at
par, payment being made available out of
the undivided profits beforementioned. This
carried the capital up to £388.392. At the
same time there was a revaluation of some
of the assets against which special reserves
had been provided ; lienee the writing-off of
£3037.
The directors decided early in the day
that local circumstances required them to
provide their own premises: and that has
involved the co. in a heavy expenditure.
Here are the figures :
1905. 1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 29,462 67,293 155,293 155,893 185,392
Debt to
Finney’s. . 42,704 27,4 58 ■ —■
Other liabili-
ties .. 60,962 133,795 114,557 116.337 118,893
Stock .. 60,878 89,119 123,408 128,683 139,559
Real property 7,665 84,332 112,018 116,529 124,458
Rook debts 25,550 45.122 70,333 72,510 67,467
Other assets 25,648 34.049 29,971 24,280 15,049
Liabilities, though still pretty heavy, are
thus substantially less than they were seven
years ago. The most admirable feature of
the accounts is that the accumulated profits
have paid for the extra stock ; while so far
as the capital is concerned the bulk of it is
represented by city property. Shareholders
cannot reasonably ask for a high return on
capital thus secured; and in the circum-
stances an 8 p.c. return free of State income
tax ought to be regarded for the present as
thoroughly satisfactory. But shareholders
aie getting more than that—they have an
interest in the accumulating reserves and
in the goodwill of a growing business. They
ought, however, to be content to view that
as principal to the use of which the busi-
ness is entitled until the clouds roll by and
the rid of some more of its debt.
Metiers, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
oil engines, etc.. who paid
~_.U!.)6 for the goodwill of the business. In
the table this* item is not regarded as an
asset:—
Towards
t _ „ . Writ- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves. Deficit.
1911.. £27 978
1912. . £18,665 10p.c.=£11,844 £2199 £4,622 23’,356
Premiums on new shares . . 3,177 20,179
1913.. 24,305 10p.c.= 14,173 3758 6,374 13,805
Premiums on new shares, £375 . . 13,430
1914.. 15,718 Nil 4995 i 0,723 2,707
, r , „ Reserves.
1915.. 17,606 sp.c.= 8,206 5087 4,313 1,606
1916.. 22,487 6„„ 9,848 4609 8,030 9,636
1917.. 23,794 6„„ 9,848 5206 8,740 18,376
Taking 1915 as a standard this co. ought to
have done better last year, for N. S. Wales.
S. Aus. and Westralia, where it does most
of its business, were all more prosperous.
But it was hit, and very unfairly hit, by
labor troubles, particularly the iron-
moulders strike, which dragged on for
months, completely paralysing some of the
co.’s activities —the new enamelling business,
for instance —and seriously affecting others.
For the moment there appears to be peace
in the establishment; and there is rather
better reason to expect that the Law won’t
in future take the same easy view of strikes
that it has done during the last three or
four years.
The directors, most of them personally
engaged in the business, adopted a policy of
securing the freehold of the co.’s factory
and warehouse premises. More than that,
they secured larger areas at the Sydney and
Adelaide factory sites than there'is present
use for. This policy, though it may save
the co. a lot in the future, has been a
glutton for money. Paid-up capital (includ-
ing £29,656 for goodwill) is £164,133; and
lands and buildings stand in the books at
no less than £80,794. As stocks have to be
carried in three capitals and Newcastle, and
as in these days metal-ware runs into
money, the result of the large investment in
sites and premises has been to burden the
co. with a debt now amounting to £71.908.
All things considered, however, the position
has improved a good deal in the past four
years:—•
Liabilities.
1913. 1916. 1917.
Overdrafts.. ..£26,689 £17,585 £31,877
Other liabilities . . 26,607 45,117 40,031
Assjets,"' ■
Laud and buildings. . ill,ooo 79,699 80 794
Plant 31,784 31,547 35,084
Stock .. .. 75,384 88,244 107,140
Sundry debtors . . 36,418 33,628 28,384
Other assets... .. 175 8,742 8,714
Thus, while liabilities have grown by only
£18.012 and 10,000 shares have been issued
at a shade over par, no less than £31.756
has been added to stocks and £32,794 to
property account. This solid improvement
has been largely due to a conservative policy
in to dividends; in four years, while
£27.902 has been distributed, no less than
£31,806 has been put into the business in
excess of what has been judged necessary
to write off against depreciation.
The future depends largely on something
quite outside the co.’s own management. If
there were a prohibitive tariff it would not
matter very much what the co.’s manufac-
turing costs were. With the present tariff
the more strenuous outsider, working with-
out harassing little strikes and mostly at
much lower rates of pay, will command all
but a few lines which a co. like this ought
to be producing. So the future depends on
two things; (1) Whether the people of
this country will realise that they must
work harder and with fewer interruptions,
and (2) whether the Parliament gives small
Australian industries a chance to grow into
well-paid big ones, capable, of turning out
goods at low prices because turning them
out by the hundred thousand, as Ford does
his motor-cars.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd., which is
the coal-mining or most of the coal-mining
end of the Howard Smith business: —
Net , Dividends. To Re- Re-
Profits. Bp.c. Prefl Ord. serves, serves.
■Tun., £ £ £ £ £
33,097
1914.. 79,721 20,200 Bn.c.= 47,328 12,193 45,290
1915. .101,831 20,200 10 „ ~00,001 21,630 66,920
(7 p. 0.)
1910.. 52,769 17,675 7 „ ~42,000 60,014
(Op.e.T
1917.. 17,192 15,150 2,042 62,050
The directors make no comment upon this
experience ; if they did they would put the
year’s unsatisfactory figures down to (1) the
disturbance of the coal trade by the war and
(2) the procession of labor disturbances on
the coalfields. No doubt this co. has been


WRITE for BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be
obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
as
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
of
YOUR WILL.
Trust Funds now under the
Company’s control exceed
£12,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manage'.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year . . .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
m
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The General Electric Co. recently shipped the largest
Synchronous Converter ever built, having a continu-
ous rating of 0825 kvv. This Converter was part
of the largest order for Synchronous Converters ever
placed, aggregating over 75,000 kvv. The General
Electric Co. supply everything electrical, and are
represented in this country by the Australian
General Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney,
and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Mel-
bourne, who will be pleased to submit quotations
for “everything electrical’’ on receipt of your
inquiry — Advt.
* * * *
A New Invention. — One of the most interesting
and useful of all exhibits to be seen at the coming
Easter Show will be an All-Steel Fence, designed and
made in Australia by the Rawson, Moody Mfg. Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney. This new fence, which is
built with powerful steel posts and wire, saves 80 per
cent, in labor, weighs only one-fifth the weight, and
will last a lifetime, as compared with the present-
day method of wooden fences, that decay so quickly.
All interested in fencing should see this fence, as it
will save money; it costs only 12s. (id. to 15s. per
chain complete. If not going to the Show, a fence
is on view at the above address, or an illustrated
catalogue will be sent on request.— Advt.
# * * #
Adamax Roofing is Weatherproof.— lt is the
most economical roofing, because it can be laid
perfectly flat —the edges being secured with Adamax
Roofing Cement. It means a great saving in roofing
timbers —also in time required for laying the roofs.
It resists the ravages of acids, gases, chemical fumes
and all the elements —is ideal for use on mine build-
ing’s, farm and station buildings, refrigerating plants,
etc. Full particulars in Free Booklet, “The Adamax
Series.’’ Address your request to William Adams and
Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide. — Advt.
* * *■ *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the I-loover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
» * * »
Pioneer Wood Pipe has won the approval of all
the State Governments. This is demonstrated by
the many orders we have received from them.
Descriptive Catalogue free upon application. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., contractors to
all State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(head office). Factories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W.;
Footscray, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.;— Advt.
* * # *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
tin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
* v * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, A»sa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertlin°-
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. li 1
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydnev • 'an
443 Bourkc Street, Melbourne.— Advt. " ’
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
hit harder than some. The cos. with a big
hunkering connection have not done so
badly; hut this co. hasn’t got that sort of
» oa l Its mines include the West Wallsend,
West Wallsend Extended, Waratah, Aber-
lare and Aberdare Extended at Newcastle.
However, if the profit has been very moderate,
the co. has the satisfaction of knowing that
it is mostly because the coal is left in the
mines waiting for better times. And the
owners of coal can be surer than most people
that the better times will come. The capi-
tal which this co. has to support is cer-
tainly very heavy—£2s2,ooo of 6 p.c. cumu-
lative prefs.' with a right to a furthei
2 p.c.; and £000.007 of ordinaries. The
Howard Smith Co. took the ordinaries, so
that co. suffers most from the present slump
in profits. The same co. has been financing
the Collieries in recent purchases of mining
property, equipment, etc., and its advances
have increased during the year from £122.432
to £221,006. It’s an affluent, money-spin-
ning crowd that can’t be bothered to talk in
hundreds.
It was let out at the meeting of Cale-
donian Collieries by the Howard Smith
crowd, which manages the business, that at
file Aberdare Central the seam had been met
at 1164 ft. and proved to be 304 ft. thick. Of
course, all this is not solid coal; but it is a
very fine body. Near the roof is 3fft. of
fair-quality stuff, separated from 34ft. of
good coal by only Oin. of splint. Then comes
a foot of banded material, next 7:}ft. of good
coal, and last of all a splendid unbroken
seam 14ft. thick. The co.’s West Wallsend
Extended pit is hung up through the usual
shipping and the labor troubles. The Fat-
men that run the show are in no mood until
the clouds roll by to hustle at the Aberdare
South. Even so, a modest annual output of
a million tons can be got from the co.’s
other pits.
The Insurance Office of Australia,
Ltd. (Sydney), which was founded in 1910,
and began with a deficit of £5250 represent-
ing preliminary exes.
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1911.. £4,115 Nil £4,115 1,’135
Dec., loss.
1912.. 436 Nil 1,571
Adjustment Re-Insurance Co., £307 1,938
1913.. 963 Nil 2,901
1914.. 5,212 Nil 8,113
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £3735.. 11,848
Profit.
1915.. 6,250 Nil 6,256 5,592
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £231 .. 5,823
Reserves.
1916.. 20,958 10p.c.= £9611 11,347 5,524
If the management is satisfied beyond all
doubt that under normal conditions it can
continue to make a profit of £20.000 a year,
well and good—the 10 p.c. dividend may pass.
It certainly should be possible now to get
business that doesn’t give an average loss-
rate of more than 51.5 p.c. of the premiums.
For the previous couple of years the rate
had been absurdly high : there was evidently
either atrociously bad luck or such a greed
for business that the co. wolfed almost any
proposal that came along. Probably the lat-
ter was the case. There is, however, no rea-
son now why the co. shouldn’t make a
prudent selection of risks. It probably paid
this co., as it has paid a good many others,
to do a plunge in its early years in order to
get attractive figures. Sometimes that
policy comes off; sometimes it doesn’t. If
it doesn’t —well, there’s another little job for
the tombstone-maker. But already the
co. has a premium income running well past
six figures; and, since that is sufficient under
ordinary circumstances to earn a 10 p.c. divi-
dend, the co. can now afford, as good new
business comes in, to weed out some of the
old indifferent lines, and thus bring the loss
rate down to a reasonable 45 p.c.—the aver-
age figure of, say, the 1.0.A.’s nearest insur-
ance neighbor, the old United.
The first table shows a profit of £20,958
for the past year and reserves of £5524 —that
is, assets in excess of capital and liabilities.
But the real position is not as good
as that. Last year’s . so-called profit
is the excess of premiums and interest over
expenses and the actual losses. But those
premiums were not wholly earned. Twenty
or 30 thousand pounds’ worth of new busi-
ness was written last year ; and the risks in
connection therewith will not expire till
some time in 1917. As for the reserves,
£115,885 of premiums were received last
year, and in the ordinary course of things
therfe ought to be 40 p.c. of that in hand
to cover unexpired risks. The co. will there-
fore have to accumulate another £35,000 or
so of profits before it can claim that it has
all its capital intact and all its liabilities
provided for. As against that it has now
got a business which certainly is worth
money. This shows, among other things,
how rapidly the premium income has grown :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1911. . £25,951 £6,748 £17.537 26.0 p.c. 67.6 n.c.
1912.. 47,241 22,443 27,845 47.5 „ 58.9 ~
1913.. 54,618 22,911 35,275 41.9 „ 64.6
1914.. 67,510 39,292 35,222 58.2 ~ 52.1 ..
1915.. 93,516 52,002 37,019 55.6 „ 39.5 ..
1916.. 115,885 59,731 38,742 51.5 „ 33.5 „
To meet future claims the co. has a very
fine lot of assets. In liquid form alone—
mostly bank deposits—it has about £75,000
net exclusive of sundry debtors; and that
lot is equal to the claims for nearly a yeai
and a half, on the last two years’ experi-
ence. And within that year and a half it
may reasonably expect to collect another
£160,000. There is good reason therefore
why the co. should command the confidence
of people with policies to place. From their
point of view the big' paid capital invested in
such a way is the best feature a co. could
present.
* * *• *
Now that the hot air has been fanned
away, it is possible to feel comfortable in the
vicinity of the .111. Tennyson molybdenite
field, near Bathurst. There is a mountain
with a layer of the metal-bearing stone,
estimated by Andrews, of the N.S.M . Alines
Department, to go 20 million tons to the
square mile. The molybdenite is in unique
formation, being mixed up with the garnet
rock, and not running away in pipes, as it
generally does. The original three cos. on
the field have been absorbed in the Mam-
moth, with a nominal capital of £lBO,OOO.
There is also the Mt. Tennyson Co., £50,000 ;
while a Lithgow syndicate is about to exer-
cise its option over the 40 acres left. On
portion of its 320 acres the Mammoth Co.
lias driven a wide tunnel for about 100 feet
and got ready a big body of stone for the
preliminary run on a small battery con-
nected by tramway running a couple of
hundred yards down a gorge. Forty tons
a day are to be treated for a start. The
Alt. Tennyson has also got busy, and if
Andrews is right there will be a big output
before long. Andrews says that stone going
4 p.c. should pay ; the cos. expect an all round
average value of 1.7 p.c., with an SO p.c.
recovery. Andrews talks about £1 10s. cover-
ing costs. The Alammoth quotes under £l.
Already a fair parcel of picked stuff has
been bagged. AVith the price fixed at £475
or so per ton, Willie Watt, Teasdale
Smith, Ashford and the others in the affair
are hopeful of millions.
* * * *
,T. E. Scantlebury is concerned about his
Amalgamated Hill End proposition, which,
starting off about six years ago with a cap-
ital of £60.000 in 300.000 4s. shares, has
accounted for about £50,000 without yet
declaring a cent in dividends. The other
day he put in for complete suspension till
after the war on the ground that the expen-
diture had been substantial and he wanted
“suitable time to make the necessary •
arrangements.” lie got three months. The
evidence showed that the co. had only enough
in hand to pay wages for a month. The
£5OOO or £6OOO uncalled capital, it was
explained, could not be touched, as it had
been agreed with the shareholders that they
were not to lie asked for more until the
Government had handed over the talked-of
subsidy of £5OOO. To date, it was said, the
Government had put in only £315. Of late
the work in the mine has been confined to
the lower levels, where the only payable gold
has been struck. Even then the crushings
have come from only a 2in. streak, three
months being spent in getting out 55 tons.
In all over 7300 feet have been driven in
the Amalgamated and over 400 feet sunk.
Now Scantlebury is offering the higher levels
on tribute. Last year £11.500 worth of gold
Was taken out of the Hill End field, but most
of it came from the Hawkins Hill Reward.
* * * *
Last year N. S. Wales produced
8,127,161 tons of coal, worth £3,336,419. a
decrease of 1,321,487 tons compared with
1915. But while the quantity was 14 p.c.
less the value was only 2.6 p.c. less. The
process of evening-up continues in operation,
for taking this year’s output as eight million
tons a further rise of 3s per ton will add
£1,200,000 to the value.
The best prospecting at Daylesford (Vic.)
is done by the old Ajax pup, the Central.
The shaft is being rushed down to 1460 ft.,
two levels being missed, though the plats were
cut. The plan of work is to get away from
the belt of barren country that came in at
about No. 8 level. At present the shaft is
in the usual slate and sandstone, with a
sprinkling of quartz leaders that cheer the
management a,trifle. To keep the pot boil-
ing all the stone available at No. 7 has been
drawn upon from the Ajax and the Western
formations, while at No. 6 only the latter
remain to supply gold. Out of these two
levels the divs. of the past six months have
come, and by tackling the Western lode at
No. 8 and No. 6, with the sweetening from
the flat make off the Western lode, the
Board may squeeze through till it can sec
what 1450 ft. will bring forth.
Ararat (Vic.) hasn’t done with Cathcart
Victory even though Percy I’. Cook’s Alel-
bourne connection can see no hope that way.
Alost of the forfeited shares have been placed
locally, the office has been shifted to Ararat,
and the enthusiastic James Baton will push
the show along. As soon as the shaft has
been unwatered sinking will be continued to
250 ft., which it is expected will give ample
levels to command all the ground in the
lease. There is 70ft. of sinking to be done.
“Platman”: Barclay, pioneer battery-
owner of Mount Coolan goldfield, has blos-
somed out as pioneeer inland navigator of
North Queensland. Cut off from Mount
Coolan by floods, he started in a boat from
Rayenswood, and in. de the high waters take
him down the Burdekin to Mount McCon-
nell station, a few miles from his objective.
Running the Burdekin Falls was the chief
difficulty, and the usual knowalls predicted
disaster; but they were wrong. The last
cyanide returns from Mount Coolan tailings
gave a value of £3 per ton, bringing the total
of the ore up to about £6 per ton. Isolation
—it is about 90 miles from Clermont, the
nearest town —together with the exodus of
miners to the Front, is keeping the field in
the background; but it has distinct possi-
bilities.
The Westonia market closed strong when
brokers "shut up their books for Easter, and
that was because scrip of both Edna Central
and Edna Consolidated was tight. There
was also a little genuine buying of Consoli-
dated because of the rumor that the middle-
reef crushing was to go 25dwt. at least, and
the main reef 15dwt. W.A. lias done most
of the “short” selling of Consolidated. The
view there is that even if the middle reef
goes over the ounce mark the shoot is irregu-
lar, with very little ore to come and go on.
That is just where Westralians don’t get the
measure of the Melbourne die-hard. lie never
has been taught to worry over reserves as
have men in the West, and so is more respon-
sive to merely a good yield. Per contra, if
yields should be less than the office has said,
he puts on his top coat as a sign that he has
been “done,” and he won’t look in again
until the next market jig, when he once more
punts as hard as the best. Edna Central
scrip is here and there bottled up. in the
hope that a flutter will start when the new
crosscut is begun. The March yield gave the
co. £4431. After paying out all exes.,
including the sum needed for plant, buildings,
etc., the co. got a mining profit of £37. If
plant items be excluded the profit works out
at £ll9B. On the same bases the figures
for February were £165 and £1045. Shaft-
sinking cannot be cut out of any computa-
tion, for the single reason that the reserves
are so small that sinking must not be
stopped for a minute. What is sticking out
is that it will take a bit more than such
profits to enable the Central to pay fat
dividends.
* * * *
The S. Aus. State Government turned out
its empty pockets when attention was called
to the need of better coal-handling facilities
at Port Pirie to keep the Broken Hill mines
fully supplied with fuel. The mine-owners
are entitled to have from a Government as
good facilities as they would supply if they
ran the business themselves. Whether they
would supply anything better at Pirie than
the port has at present is doubtful. If they
would, in view of the huge profits they are
making it would be a fair thing for them to
provide the State Government with the
money at a reasonable rate of interest. In-
stead, the Commonwealth Government, whose
ear the mine-owners seem to have, has been
persuaded to equip the port, the State Gov-
ernment to pay up when it feels so disposed.
The source from which the money is to be
drawn ought to be specified. If any War
Loan is being used for the purpose it is an
improper thing—as improper as it would be
to pay out War Loan money to equip
farmers with ploughs and strinoers, or wool-
growers with new shearing machinery.
* * * *
The South Aus. State Savings Bank
announces that its funds have at last topped
the 10-million mark. It was opened in 1848,
and took till the end of 1877 to get the first
million. It was at four millions when Feder-
ation came, five 10 years ago, touched nine in
1913, fell back in the drought, but has now
reached the eight figures. By the way, it
lumps in reserves with depositors’ balances
in calculating this total.
# * * *
So much money was lost over the ill-fated
Mount Balfour (Tas.) mine and railway
juggle that it took more than one effort to
tune up a liquidation meeting to the pitch of
saying good-bye to the whole thing. Thanks
to the Speck Government deciding to take
over the railway, all debts have been met and
about £2500 left in the cashbox for distribu-
tion. This has to be cut up among 20,000
shares paid up to £lO 3s. There won’t be
much left over for the dog.
* *• * *
Most of the potato farmers at Penguin
and Ulverstone (Tas.) turned out one day
lately to peg sections in the Dial Range.
Robert Revell had found a formation carry-
ing native copper, and a couple of Melbourne
men had come in with money to give the
show a test. Hence the excitement.
* * * *
Pennsylvania (U.S.A.), chasing oil, has
a bore hole down 7214 feet—it has taken
five years to drill and cost £60,000. So far
no oil has been struck. But they don’t
altogether despair—there’s said to be a well
in Roumania 7300 ft. deep.
There is a silver boom on the Pacific
Coast (U.S.A.), and particularly on the
once-famous Comstock lode. Silver lias risen
50 p.c., and many old mines are being re-
opened. The Comstock lode is being
unwatered at the 2900 ft. level, and ore
under water for 35 years has been made
accessible for working. It is alleged that
in the ’7o's only ore worth £7 a ton was
payable; nowadays they think they might
make a do of £2 dirt.
* *■ * *
The west coast of Maoriland is very slow
in developing its promised dredging boom;
but at last Rimu No. 1 has started with a
plentiful supply of water, and it expected to
get on to bottom wash-dirt last week. The
financial arrangements have caused dissen-
sion, and the shares have for some time past
been out of favor. In the unworked portions
of the Rimu flat the gold will be found close
to the bottom, so the enormous yardage talked
about must include some very low-grade
material. Further, the gold on the west
coast is generally very fine, aird a close recov-
ery by dredging isn’t an easy matter. It is
therefore highly probable that some disap-
pointments are ahead.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper, ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s' All-British, and economical in use. [2
CIMRLES
tolEffi
Vintage 1906
QWfDME
NE PLUS ULTRrI
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
ftoSiq
w ALLAN &. CO
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 27. posted 2.- t
Norwegian Cradle Sor.g —
Meditation, * - Morel
A Resolve, - « Koilar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse • Eugene Blore
ALLAN'S. 261 Co'lins St.. Mclb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
POLLEN
m
8i ZOON’S
SCHNAPPS
GUARANTEED BY BRITISH CONSUL AT ROTTERDAM.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, April 9, 1917.
My Dear Arint.—
The Easter Show was opened, as usual,
with a corkscrew. Even at half-past two
the official luncheon was only crawling to
the last oratorical fence, and the hearty
looking gentlemen who did appear were wip-
ing the crumbs from their beards. For
whiskers were It, and they waved to the
waist or were cut short in the pointed grey
thicket that woolmen favor.
Good seasons gave Sydney a magnificent
vision of the real Australia as it paraded the
r ing on the opening day of the Show ; and
city motor-men sat; back and admired the
thoroughbred lines of famous trotting horses,
the satin skins of the ladies’ hacks, minia-
ture ponies with Young Australia astride,
the old-fashioned buggy—most comfortable
of country vehicles—draught horses of a type
that made Rider Haggard at the 1910 event
exclaim “Hard to beat anywhere!” and
women riders about whom he might exclaim
that they couldn’t be even matched any-
where. Governor Strickland was seen
addressing the crowd in an animated speech.
But the Beef was bellowing its loudest and
Brawn took charge of the proceedings.
The official stand surged with the South
Coast Morton family, tremendously in evi-
dence. Railway Commissioner Cann and his
homely lady. Attorney-General Davie Hall and
his missus, Brigadier John Stanley (over from
Melbourne —eh, what?—and looking sprightly
as ever), our own Commandant George Lee,
and a vice-regal helping were in the red-
plush reserve. The G.-G. and Lady Helen
were booked for every event except the ring
competition, and wheat and wool experts
were everywhere. The latter were hung
with symbols—possibly to get them past an
old peri whose mission in life is to make
visitors to the official stand uncomfortable
for a start.
A batch of Consuls, the French Chayet,
the Belgian Watteeuw (the dandy of the
party) and the Japanese Shimizu, piloted
by President Sam Hordern, crossed the ring
to say the correct thing to Lady Edeline.
She, poor lady, is again in mourning, for the
Court and its overseas representatives wear
sable garments for the Duchess of Con-
naught. However, the daughters of the
Strickland house were let off lightly, and
made a cheerful party in creamy-white
tailor-mades.
Talking of consuls reminds me of Mr.
Welch, whose drab but blameless career in
a York-street softgoods warehouse used to
be starred with one jewel—he was the
“Imperial Russian consul.” Alas, the
“Imperial” was only tinsel, after all, and
if Mr. Welch is anything at all he will pro-
bably have to be content with being a mere
“trade agent.” Still, he can get consolation
from this: the Grand Duke Michael is now
“Citizen Romanoff.” and no special curtsies
about it either.
Lady riders? A racy, sporting-looking
crowd. Mrs. Stace sticks to her side-saddle,
as the safest seat over the timber. Alice
McCulloch, perfectly turned out, won the
amateur equestrienne event, but was only
second in the Walker and Hall competition,
though she looked a first. Dolly Fogg, Vic
Julian (Kempsey), and Rene Mutton were
all heavily booted and as well-groomed as
their gee-gees. The women riders appar-
ently coax their steeds over the timber;
there’s no sound of blows raining on satin
necks when the Show-girl takes off for a big
jump. This compliment doesn’t go all
round. At one exhibition of male horseman-
ship a game horse set to do the impossible
over timber as high as his velvet nose got a
cruel hammering. And then he failed.
Show visitors from other States included
the Tom Taits, of Oaklands, South Aus.
Tom, who partners with Sid Kidman in
meat-growing ventures, is a fine judge of a
horse, and has been winning some big events
lately. But that’s spending money; and he
hasn’t made half enough yet. Perhaps he
never will.
At the Show this year the famous Batlow
apple district got a licking from Goulburn.
But Sydney housewives, peering at red-
cheeked beauties piled up in the Show
pyramids wondered where all this luscious
Australian fruit goes. Bruised and wrinkled
and forlorn hopes, disguised in dingy tissue
paper, and imported from the U.S.A., are
our portion here below. And the dark-eyed
gentleman who sells it —at famine prices—
snaps indignantly if you protest at paying
twopence for an apple with a cavern in its
heart.
Women's industries are now mostly of the
Sister Susie persuasion. Therefore no one
is surprised that one always motley section
at the Show should this year be even more
feeble than usual. Such hardv annuals
as crochet quilts, violent designs in patch-
work. weird artificial flowers and desperate
attacks on canvas with a paint-brush are
still to be seen in this Hall of Lamenta-
tions. Happily, the moans of the judges
are not heard. Large placards cheerfully
mention that someone lias won a prize or
is highly commended —presumably for sub-
lime confidence in exhibiting. After the
war this annual travesty on Woman’s Indus-
tries ought to be introduced to an official
thrower-out of rubbish. If it isn’t, those
exhibitors who still send in decent samples
of stitcliery and offer oblations of bottled
fruit will object to show their wares.
The Conservatorium was a tight squeeze
for the optimists who hoped to hear more
than the distant scrape of fiddles from the
doorstep on Good Friday night. Verbrugghcn
took the “Dream of Gerontius” and other
music to fit the occasion, with one of the
choir’s best 1916 efforts, the Bach motet,
“Jesu, Priceless Treasure.” The lady
choristers outdistanced their male support
in this waft of song, which lias the oratoric
trick of turning back and harping on the
headline. In case you may be worried about
the musical species of a motet, it’s an
ancient label tacked on to old church music,
and the best authorities have fought furi-
ously about its true etymology. The G.-G.,
Lady Helen and a big official party took the
easy chairs at this fine concert.
Solicitor Arthur Dowling, son of a judge
and grandson of a Chief Justice, came back
by a recent liner —one of the comparatively
few that nowadays nose their way through
the Mediterranean. One object of the trip
couldn’t be fulfilled: there is a grave in
France which a father wanted to visit, but
couldn’t through illness. There is another
boy, though, at the Front, and he is doing
dashing things in the Flying Corps. But
like most of our Billjims he would rather
talk of the things his mates do.
Dowling was across the German lines,
doing some playful bomb-dropping, when an
anti-aircraft “Archie” shot off part of a
wing. Instantly the ’plane started to swing
and sway and flutter, and in a second or two
would have been beyond control. Young
Dowling’s mate was quite a youngster, but
all nerve and pluck. “Crawl out on to the
wing!” said the boss. The youngster crawded
out and about until the balance was per-
fectly restored; and, though the ’plane (it
was the machine that Sid Kidman gave)
was very badly damaged, it was landed
inside our lines.
St. Vincent’s Hospital fgte comes to a
grand climax on April 17. Then will the
huge matinee at Her Majesty’s, shaped by
Hugh Ward, gather in the ultimate shillings
left over from the races. There’s to be an
auctioning of boxes for the event: Minnie
Love (the lady who had an accident with a
Doll), Kathlene MacDonell and our own
Florence Young will be on the look-out for
the highest bidders.
It seems only a year or so since Lady
Poore told a little meeting which was melt-
ing itself down into a Bush Book Club that
Australians lacked imagination. But old
time flies faster than any bird man, and the
Club is holding its seventh annual corro-
boree on April 17. This year it’s to be at
Government House, and the pasteboard is
already out.
Boy scouts will shoulder broomsticks and
stand at ’tention as Lady Helen enters
Ascham grounds on this Thursday afternoon.
It’s the usual kind of raid for a battalion
fund, with a big society backing and a raffle
round every flower-bed. Take the Ocean-
street tram and get out one stop before
Edgecliff-road.
The P.L.L. in N. S. Wales has shown its
unselfishness by giving women candidates
an opportunity to contest at the Federal
elections a couple of seats which are hope-
less from a Labor point of view. The two
petticoats selected are Mrs. Seery for Rob-
ertson and Mrs. Greville for Wentworth.
The latter’, the wife of Harry Greville, him-
self an old and well-known unionist and
battler for the Labor cause, is an able
speaker and has helped to win a lot of cam-
paigns.
Mrs. Seery, who, by the grace of the
P.L.L. Executive, has been given the job of
fighting for the Robertson seat, is, after Mrs.
Kate Dwyer, perhaps the most prominent
woman of the Labor movement. She is a fluent
speaker and an able organiser (she is secre-
tary of the Women’s Organising Committee),
and with a sympathetic woman’s vote is
likely to poll better than the P.L.L. expected.
Graythwaite—the Tom Dibbs's gift for
convalescent sojers—is losing its voluntary
.cook, Frances Jones. She reluctantly takes
her apron off after 12 months’ splendid ser-
vice. Imperative home duties call.
S. Australia’s gum-tree .artist lleyseu has
been over this way and had a look at
Norman Lindsay in his mountain eyrie
before hurrying back to the Grape State.
Saturday’s races brought out every fur
coat within a day’s ride of Randwick. The
sudden nip in the air was just the thing for
the lady who owned a handsome hide. Even
the smile on the face of the tiger -was pre-
served in one or tw r o jungle pelts, the grinning
head being worn somewhere on the neck of
Lovely Woman. Fur, liisrh to the ears, is
the scheme that pleases the owner of a short
coat-frock —a new garment of Pickwickian
shape much fancied by our girls. Small hats
like a bishop’s indoor millinery, with steep
turreted sides, are a menace to the lady with
a face like a full-blown peony. But there
it is—the autumn fashion, and who’s afraid?
Now that paper money is the vogue, the
gilded flash the popular old yellow metal on
their frocks and veils. The latest veil looks
as if a spider spinning gold-thread had
walked all over it. Under one handsome fur
coat the peaked velvet skirt—an awkward
mode —draggled in the gustv wind. Gold
embroidery sprawls over expensive autumn
frocks, and the lady knuts still wear their
skirts half-way up their calves. Certainly
there’s £3 worth of high boot to catch the
eye below the hem.
At Saturday’s race meet Mrs. Hugh Gor-
don wore one of the stunning frocks that
glue the attention of the most impassive.
Made of a sulphurous shade of green and
picked out with fur it would have downed
19 women out of 2(3: but the dark-eyed
young matron happened to be the lucky
20th. Brown and bottle-green have a great
revival this autumn. Mrs. Dora Leslie
Walford was in the former wintry-weather
shade. Mrs. Galbraith, in the dark green
an id out in one of the
latest tight-fitting coat costumes. Mrs.
Spencer Brunton and Mrs. Charlie Waldron
—Auntie in dark velvet flecked with gold—
mounted the official stand together. Mar-
jorie Allison, the good-looking girl from
Coomoo Coomoo, was in the first flight in
an oyster-white suit. Edith Hill in one of
the latest pleated Ideas, Mrs. Val Osborne
in velvet (fur and velvet are It this luxuri-
ous season), Mrs. Jack Campbell and other
smart frockers were furred and braided to
'the chin.
In town for the Show and the Horse car-
nival are the Fred McMasters, Mrs. Regan
(Tamworth), the Rouses, the Inverell Black
clan, Mrs. Keogh (Coonamble), and a good
many pastoral Ryries.
The cards to view the Nightingales get-
ting their prizes at Prince Alfred Hospital
had the chilly P.S.: “Trams—Newtown or
Leichhardt lines are equally distant from
the Hospital.”
Veteran “Harry” Dangar, M.L.C.. who has
decided that he must at last give up an
active interest in the A.J.C., has been one of
the most prominent figures in the racing
world of Australia for over 40 years. A
great four-in-hand whip, he used to be in-
variably chosen to drive the Union Club drag
to the Randwick Races—a job which he per-
formed with characteristic “swank” almost
until the motor era was born.
Mrs. P. ,T. Hourigan, who died last week
and was buried at South Head Cemetery,
was a daughter of that Michael Guilfoyle
who many years ago had a famous nursery
at Double Bay. As with Baptist’s Nursery
in Redfern, the land became too valuable to
grow plants, and bricks and mortar now fill
the spots where roses blossomed and carna-
tions bloomed. When the old family plantation
was cut up and sold, son William Guilfoyle
went south, and that’s how the Botanic
Gardens on the Yarra got their most famous
curator. Incidentally, it was also how one
Don Juanic Vic. Governor came to get a
black eye.
A chill followed by pleurisy last week
carried off a fine old lady, Mrs. Mary Layton,
who had got safely past 83 milestones. She
was the mother of three tall sons, one of
them Deputy Town Clerk of Sydney. Another
prefers the wilds, and pioneers in the soli-
tudes this side of Cape York.
Sydney’s favorite contralto, Kate Rooney,
has promised to sing in St. James’s Hall on
April 27, though her big organ needs an
edifice to house its forte notes. Soon after
that she packs up her little Billee for home
and daddy in New York. Of course the
song is to help our soldiers —the lean Com-
forts Fund of the 2nd D.A.C. and 22nd
Howitzer Brigade. The plan opens at
Paling’s on April 18.
Reassuring dispatch from Billjim in
London:—
What is this fuss the girls are making in Aus-
tralia about our boys marrying English girls? Don’t
believe a word of it I I had the job of overhauling
the statistics in Headquarters these last few weeks
and found that 95 per cent, of the marriages of
Australian soldiers in England were contracted by
English immigrants who had enlisted with our boys
in Australia, and who, when they got to England,
wounded or on leave, married the girls they left
behind them.
Doesn't the money roll in if you know how
to lure it? North Sydney girls who held
a bazaar or something of the sort in the
old Cafe Franeais thought they might rake
in £3O for the Y.M.C.A. war funds. Instead,
they had £75 profits (exes, nil) to hand over
the following morn.
Gladys de T. Fraser, a Melbourne girl
who often camped at the Australia —was
married lately in Ceylon. The ’groom is
Charles Thompson Young (of Gow, Sommer-
ville and Co.), and the knot was tied in
Colombo on February 15.
B. E. Minns, who adores the Persian purr,
might note that the 19th Battalion girls
(depot 11 Bent-street) are going to raffle a
kitten of high-class pedigree.
The A.M.C. had their tent in the suburbs
of the Show ground. After the cattle had
been tied up in blue, red or yellow ribbon
—according to social status —the big A.M.C.
tarpaulin went up. Out of the way?
Don’t you believe it! The public couldn’t
dodge the charmers, and never got away
from the flap of a battalion tent till it fled,
with a last tram fare, for home.
The 7th Artiller-y dames, with Mrs.
Pearce and Mrs. E. Playfair to render first
aid, had a very saucy-looking refreshment
booth. Smart damsels with the artillery
red-and-blue trimmings gazed pensively at
the passers-by—the stand being in the
hub of business —till some of the crowd
dashed in to drench itself with tea.
The Senate used to be the frozen meat of
Sydney Uni. Now the sunshiny Dr. Cecil
Purser, one of the most genial souls in the
profession, comes in to complete the thaw. As
the new vice-chancellor one can almost see
him handing a chair to Mrs. Kate Dwyer!
He is one of our own graduates, too, like his
predecessors in the vice-clian.’s robes,
Backhouse and Leverrier.
A lady school-inspector—a new educa-
tional thrill —is going to fill an impending
vacancy. School-marms have often writhed
under the male inspector’s rounds of the
cookery and sewing classes. Now they’ll see
one of their own sex tackle the seams and
prod the baked meats, and may not like it
any better.
I’m wondering if the fashion experts bor-
rowed the idea of hard-glazed sailor hats
from Cap’n Cuttle’s wardrobe? They’ll be a
rainproof fad this coming winter. But only
Woman benefits thereby. Man is still firmly
attached to the bowler, with digressions in
felt, plain or fuzzy (like underdone plush),
for every other day.
Mary’s little Australian lamb has been
so closely shorn for our sojers’ comfort that
this winter’s prices of ordinary woollens
would stagger us if we lived in Snowland.
Bijt our mild Indian-summer weather re-
lieves us of most of the hardship. And the
Thrifters point out that there’s nothing the
matter with last year’s coat if you scare
the moths with sufficiently smellful calico
bags.
For twelve months there have been rumors
of a Paderewski tour through Australia.
Now word drops in that there’s nothing in
it —not, anyway, till the war drops dead, from
exhaustion probably. Then the ardent Pole
may toss his leonine locks this side of
the Equator. If he does it will be. in great
part for the benefit of his almost naked and
starving compatriots.
At last that famous germ-conductor, the
school roll-towel, is to be abolished. The
youngsters will either take their own bit of
clean boiled rag or—well, boys, anyhow,
have wiped their faces on the backs of their
hands before to-day.
The Arts and Grafters wind up a good
show in Norwich Chambers this Thursday.
As usual the leather work can be dismissed
without a crease in its good reputation; and
May Gibbs shows the gum-nut baby in
Easter frolics.
Mrs. J. A. Kethel, with daughter Joan,
is snatching a short Easter holiday at
Wentworth Falls. Mother has been one of
the pillars of Graythwaite for the last year
and Joan has been Y.A.D.-ing.
Young Dr. Minnett, of North Sydney,
will be a married man before you get this.
His bride is Doris Morton, daughter of the
Bob Mortons, of Elsternwick (Vic.), and
the ceremony is billed for eight o’clock on
Wednesday evening.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORLAN.


\
nTTTII]
TmiHllHlMllllWllllllllllTTlfF
M
IN SEVEN CHAPTERS lb H Sal.O.Un
PUBLISHED El) HEIRON & SMITH L 5
214 CASTLEKEAGH ST SYTHNET
CHAPTER 1
f[rom the first moment The
met her, he made up his mind
he would marry her. She was
a you ng girl. slight, dark-
haired. with alluring tlue eyes. • •
It was the alluring Hue eyes that
had fascinated Fred, and they made
him feel he'd have to work hard
to earn enough money to marry
He had.one rival, a pale-faced
younQ naan who was musical &-
who hated Billiards; he owned, the
name of Clarence.
It must be admitted that Fred
loved billiards as-much as he hated
Clarence. Clarehcfe thought that
billiards were a waste of time,and
Fred felt jealous of Clarences • •
knowledge csf' music.
Clarence talked about Beet-
hoven’s Sbnatas, a- List's rhap-
0«/' l
Clarence hated
bilhoards
Sodieg, in afamiKar, irritating way
that made ftedL Squirm. To Fred,
alone represented music.
The girl appeared -to like music
and she was not very interested
in billiards .Clarence was in a he-Hsr
than JVed, * -there was a
rivalry betweenthem for
the girls affections.
chapter n
Then the war came,
CHAPTER m
FreaL joined, up early and was
wounded, in the landing at Galli-
poli.
Clarence is still here, it is not
that the authorities considered him.,
unfit. He really had not given,
ihvtn the chance to say.
Candidlty he thought
wavs Were horrid -things #•
Re joined the ranks of con-
scientious objectors.
CHAPTER JSL
- And what of our charromg girl
with ike alluring Hue eqes?
As soon as Fred toofe t o hhaki..,
jt was goodbye Clarence. It did
not take long to discover- her prefer-
ence. Slie did not do any *• •
"white -feather” stunts, and she >
was always quite nice to Clarence
hut she had made up her mind • •
privately that Fred, was hers.
While he was away, she had.
persuaded her father to buy a •
Cottage Billiard Table from H 1" I RON
krSMITH of Sydney, and she soon
became interested and quite pro-
ficient at the game. At first her
father refused to listen to the billiard
tabic proposal. He thought it would
cost too much, and he was sure
he had’nt the space rn the room
for it, but when pointed out
feat HEDR.ON & SMITH would taW
*lfQj per week for it, and that the
fable was really a clever comb-
ination of a dining and billiard
table, well he rushed it. The war
had got on his nerves lately &-
he Sorely felt the need for a > •
decent home* recreation that would
bring relief ip a tormented mind.
The charming girl was a
thought fill young lady. Nearly
every evening towards the end
of dinner they drew impatient
to play 100 up. tier father knew
Something about the game. • » *
having played a great deal m
earlier days, and he taught the
girl how to get the best out of
it.
Clarence and his music hard-
ly got a look in these tiroes, and
he -flatly refused to have any
thihg to do with billiards.
The girl was anxious tp know
811 £bou.t billiards, so that-when
Fred came bach, she could en_-
ter into his favourite pastime
with real and interest.
CHAPTER I
Freds wound took a long
while to heal. He was in hospital
in Egypt for month*. He was ul-
timately returned to Australia un-
fit for further military service.
During hia convalescence Fred
had studied music and had come
now to appreciate Beethoven, .
Lisjt and Chopin but he still had
a tender regard, for Sousa, and
had a weakness for Hairy Lauder
What had. helped him musically
was the fact, that a-t the hospital
they had a "Salonola' a beautiful
instrument purchased from M es T
HEIRON & SMITH of Sydney 8r
£ent there by thoughtful Aust-
ralians .
He made up hid mind that when
he married the charming <hrl
theu would have a 'Salonola ‘ and
he knew they could afford it • •
because they could buy it at the
rate of 2/6 per week;* who feeb
a small sum lihe that every
week?
CHAPTER.
:et
Yes. they are married and
they are very happy.
They ve the 'Salonola
and the ’Cottage Billiard Table
and it was' a mutual surprise
,to learn. that they eaehhnew
the others pe-t hobby.
HeK father (save them a
new Billiard Table as a wed-
ding present, he ref Used "to
part with his own, he had* «
become too attached to it, and.
they all three swear by M e ? s *v
HEIRON and SMITH of * .
2,14 CASTLEREAGH ST.
Sydney.
So will you when you
buy your billiard table and
'Salonola; when you thmh that
awe eh for each article will
buy you pleasure and rest
from the turmoil and worry
k li t
'jL
n
Fred was wounded a-t
dhe landing atf Callipoli *
Write "to fkem -for illustrated.
and. par-tic ulars.
Citv 4697 or 7870.
CHAPTER yiH
'AVKat of Clarence?
Well, wp ask you., doesClav-
ence matter?
. Does anybody matter
vvfio earmcrt take an interest
in aciek a keen and intei
es~tind daw as billiards on
0 Cotxage Billiard. Table?
'YUJMITfi 6> JULIt'J ftj
'
-
TLeuve £>ot the 'Salanola dcthe Gtfage Billiard Table
HEIPCM & *SMTM L E
214 CA-TTLERgACtt JT
397 GEORpE
JYD/MEY
SYDNEY.
& A-WEEK WILL • SECURE AOU A-COTTAGE BILLIARD-TABLE^ASALQNOLA


m
Stylish
FOOTWEAR
T'o*’ MEN.
H
KKE we illustrate our new exclusive footwear
model. This “last’ has been designed for us
by experts, and combines the maximum of
comfort with the very smartest, newest shape.
Instanced below are a few of the lines we
have in stock of this particular model.
SJR96. Sterling Colt Lace Boots, Dull Kid
Legs, Drill Lined. Price 32/6
UR97. Finest French Kid Lace Boots, Kid
Lined throughout. Price 35 /_
UR9B. Selected French Kid Oxford Lace
All are stocked in half-sizes and several
Shoes, Kid Lined throughout. Price, 30 /-
fittings. We Pay the Carriage.
&
armer#
PITT. MARKET
& GEORGE STS.
*S "V D N E *V.
" THE SHRINE OF FASHION.”
MEN
OF
DISTINCTION
ACQUIRE MUCH OF
THEIR PERSONALITY
FROM
GOOD CLOTHES.
YOU CAN ACQUIRE
The Good Clothes
AT
Buckley’s
m
Bl24l. — “The Balmoral,” one
of Buckley’s Fleece Coats, liber-
ally designed and perfectly
balanced to sit the shoulders well.
Price 63/-
Available in Dark Greys and
Browns.
Others at 75/- and 84/-
GOOD TASTE
INCORPORATED WITH
GOOD STYLE
IN
CLOTHING FOR MEN.
— Perfect Satisfaction
in
Mail Ordering.
BUCKLEY S NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, April 9, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Marie Tempest rushed iu ou au expectant
Theatre Royal audience with a kick and a
bound on Saturday night. She did a record
non-stop run from the wings to the neck of
stage godfather Sydney Stirling and started
straight into her lines. But the audience
would have none of that nonsense. An
avalanche of applause came down, and Marie
had to pull up and respond. The boomed
lady began in a travelling dress from the
country—black and white stripes going
crazily in every direction, with criss-cross
bands, upside down frills and cross fichus,
as the mad fashion of the moment demands.
She lias the dainty and expressive ankles of
a soubi-ette; they flashed first at the Royal
gazers in putty-colored stockings and shoes.
The real frocking begins when the fasci-
nating Kitty is settled in her wedding-
present villa. She walks the terrace in pink
—a marvellous confection of lace and silk,
stockings and parasol. She then reduces
her stranger-husband to abject mush by
wearing an amber dressing-gown. The thing
is made of oceans of pale amber chiffon over
gold lacy underlayers. Marie favors the
French idea of lounging in her corsets in-
stead of flopping in a dressing-gown in the
English manner. She also has a Yankee
habit of saying “Yep.” Godfather gets the
monosyllable thrown at him frequently.
The house was full, but most of the best
dressers were away racing in Sydney. There
was a startling preponderance of mourning
black. A girl in a lower box was a pleasing
exception, her billowy brocade frock being-
covered with huge pink roses. The bodice was
little more than a fichu of pink chiffon.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme boxed with a party.
Her frock was black, and hung on her shoul-
ders by frail bands of paddy-green tulle.
Mrs.. Aubrey Campbell kept out the cold by
wearing the hearthrug—a huge snow-leopard
skin. Mrs. Embling (Mayoress of Praliran)
and her medico sister showed their auburn
heads in the dress-circle. The Pharez Phil-
lipses’ little daughter, lately married, wore
lovely fluffy pink togs below a sable coat.
Most of the women were glad to hide them-
selves in wraps.
The Tempest reminds Melbourne alter-
nately of Mrs. Brough and Melba. She has
the same energy and vivacity as the singing
star, and possesses a dear little voice of her
own. It has a rich, croony flavor, and is
very convincing when she sings her Sir Regi-
nald into an ecstasy over such a “dear little
domestic woman.” It is just' the voice for a
drawing-room on a cold night.
Half the Gonsalez Opera Co. and the
orchestra steamed off on Friday for Adelaide
and a Saturday first-night booked up to
the last seat. The second cast, not being
due until a later Adelaide performance,
stayed behind and gave a concert at the
Princess’s on Friday night. Balboni, Filip-
pini, Lois, Miss Visoni and Miss Gonsalez
were the soloists. It was Balboni who re-
ceived the ovation. But tenor Lois also
had his adorers patting little white-gloved
hands in stalls and boxes. Lois has been
a great success socially. An accompanist
slipped away from his piano at curtain as
if he expected to be seized in the wings by
raging artists. He had done his nervous
best; but it wasn’t very good.
Little Visoni sang from “Boheme,” and
peacocked about the stage in amber silk and
black chi If on. Miss Gonsalez wore a black
dress punctuated with pink pompoms and
an upstanding aigrette to match her top
note. The evening ended with the quar-
tette from “Rigoletto.” Balboni was not
in the singing line, but beamed from back-
stage m his storm overcoat and muffler.
Final supper parties with plenty of spa-
ghetti followed. Several admirers were
stalled in the front row, and their motors
were waiting. Mrs. Pohlman gave six
parties during the last week and suppered
each departing batch in turn.
At the end manager Fuller came on with
the Italians, who bowed and smiled inter-
minably, with white gloves clutched to their
bosoms. Fuller managed to edge in a speech :
Brother Ben and he had decided to bring
the Gonsalez crowd back again after the
war. He breathlessly added something about
the popular prices we have charged” and
was then drowned in applause.
. Cappelli had his farewell on Wednesday
night at the Princess’s, though the Gonsalez
Opera Co. did not give the welkin a rest
until Friday. The tenor was at his best
in “Gioconda.” Ilis black hair was never
glossier, and his butterfly moustache showed
above a tunic made out of a camp-blanket;
below that, lily-white fleshings and scarlet-
and-gold boots. In this chilly rig he discoursed
sweet nothings to the stormy sea from the
deck of his antique tugboat, while the listen-
ing- moon had spasms. In a later and more
tragic scene, with green limelight making
him look bilious, he wore a black velvet
doublet and green legs, lie, De Revers and
\ isoni argued songfull.v about love for so
long that the audience wondered how much
he would have to pay the taxi.
Cappelli had a concert after the opera.
Imagine it! A four-act-opera over at 11.20,
then a long, patient wait while the star
changed into modern evening dress and the
stage was rearranged as a drawing-room
with gold pedestals breaking up the spaces.
Everybody (Cappelli included) knew that
a box was filled with complimentary flowers.
Hut someone forgot and none were handed
up at curtain-fall. A raging, black-eyed
tenor bowed the rag down and then sang
an encore. Meanwhile some usher was
boiled and his terrified successor over-
whelmed the singer with laurel wreaths and
other vegetation.
Mrs. Pohlman sat smiling in the front
row, with £5OOO worth of diamonds in her
hair. She gave a great supper party after
the late show for all the Italians and Cap-
pelli in particular.
Adelaide’s pow-wow:—
The Galways are packing up at Marble Hill,
and will return to town for the winter, arriving
in time to see Governor Macartney as he passes
through to the West on Thursday. On Saturday
our JJx. goes to Kangaroo Island for a quiet
week’s fishing. The refuge spurns the telephone
and accepts only two mails a week. Still it heard
the big call promptly, and practically every one
of its eligible men hustled off to war.
The Soldiers’ Home League added £520 to its
bank balance by means of Brick and Button Day
at the end of the week. The 18tli Battery Club
and the 32nd Battalion Comforts Club also fixed
on the week-end for a money-hunt. A couple of
good concerts were -the successful bait. Now
we’ve started on a self-denial month for the
benefit of the Repatriation Fund. The State War
Council is in charge.
There was a war-wedding on Wednesday, when
the R.W.G. Dempsters’ only daughter was put
under the command of the younger son of the late
C. S. Leader. He is a sergeant in the A.I.F.
Another war marriage pending is that of Helen,
second daughter of the Arthur Waterhouses, to
l’aul Teesdale Smith. .He is at the Front —has
been since the war’s early days.
Lieut. W. Price, son of our one-time Premier,
is recovering in a London hospital from wounds
received in France. According to a cable from
Agent-General F. W. Young, young Price earned
the Military Cross along with the wounds.
Roseworthy Agricultural College took stock of its
records on its annual. speech day and found that
sinee its inception (in 1883) 033 students had
passed through. Of those 150 have enlisted,
and two of then*, Capt. J. S. Malpas and Capt.
J. L. Stanford, have won the Military Cross.
The Rev. W. Scott, M.A., first Government Astro-
nomer of N.- S. Wales, who died at Chatswood,
near Sydney, the other day, was a brother of the
late Henry Scott, of this State, and of the late
Abraham Scott, who sat in our first Legislative
Council.
The State "Women’s Recruiting Committee is
arranging for a women’s procession, mainly of
relatives (provided they are over 10 years of age)
of men at the Front, though women patriotic workers
are to be asked to join. Win-the-War badges will
be sold in the streets, and purchasers of them will
be asked to sign a pledge to do all in their power
to hammer the Hun. Mis. Crawford Vaughan is
president of the committee, and Mrs. Christophers
honorary secretary. I’m cabling this to the Kaiser
and Von Jlindenburg. When Hindenburg hears that
the thing has been nicely timed to take place in the
week before the Win-the-War election, he will
piobably smell a rat. Quite a lot of people have
smelt that rat already.
Mice records are fairly jostling one another. A
Dublin farmer, with half a bucket of poisoned
wheat as his weapon, settled accounts with 13,000
in four days. The biggest haul was on the first
day, when the slayer got 5500. A man near Brink-
worth vouches for 3ewt. from about his wheat-
stacks, and 250 were gathered to their fathers in
the railway refreshment-room there in one morning.
Mr. Coombe, M.P., who had an attack of cerebral
haemorrhage while at a political meeting at Port
Adelaide on Friday, has just expired. He was
one of the leaders of the anti-conscription cam-
paign, and put as much energy into that as he did
into his previous agitation for effective voting.
A. M. Simpson, who last year gave the Defence
Department £2500 to purchase a Gnome biplane,
equipped with a quick-firing gun, has just seen his
74th birthday through. He is the politician who
gave (lie whole of his six years’ Parliamentary
salary to the Defence Forces, the result being the
Simpson Rifle Trophy, which was established in
1893. The old gentleman has been in the State
since ’49.
I’m glad to tell you that the rumor that far.
Gertrude Halley, medical inspector of schools, has
resigned, is first cousin to a mining prospectus. She
merely resigned a nominal position under the Cen-
tral Board of Health.
Lesley Madden rustles into commerce by
s P ec^a l view of the underwear on
April 11 in Webb’s Building. She will be
Joseph et Cie” in city life.
The Pfeiffer girls—they are Dresden-china
models—lately looked in at Melbourne with
Miss Kennedy, their bright Bananaland
companion, after a Honolulu-Maoriland gad.
Festive Sydney holds them now. It has been
their home-city ever since the death of their
dad, who was Pfeiiter, of the Day Dawn
mine, Charters Towers. He left his girls
several thousands a year apiece with which
to play around.
The Fernie Kents (his name is Fasifern,
but the couple always are hailed cheerfully
as “Fernie”) lately motored all the way
from Gayndah, in Bananaland, to Melbourne
and pulled up at Scott’s to celebrate their
silver wedding. The silver-grey, silver-
- mounted Rolls-Royce they travelled in was
a purring present _ from him to her. The
Kents are now taking an observation of the
Sydney races on their way home.
The widow Thompson (Castlemaine) and
the widow Clifton (Darling Downs) have
partied with Miss Johnstone, and gone to
Sydney for the race season. Mrs. Thompson
j® a handsome girl encumbered with
£75,000 and some iron-foundries. She was a
daughter of Whitehead, of Bananaland, who
owned the once-famous horse Dividend. The
three are flatting until they can get perches
in the crowded Australia.
The Walter Butlers gave a khaki dance at
their Toorak home about six weeks ago. It
was a good show, for Walter is the fashion-
able architect who bullies the Very Best
house-builders and insists on their using Aus-
tralian woods and Australian designs. The
Very Best love to be bullied, and the man
who can do it makes big cheques. On Fri-
day son Howard Butler and a crowd of his
brother-artillerymen from Maribyrnong gave
a surprise return-dance to mother. Abou:
100 came along and brought Di Gilio’s band
and a supper. This made the third dance in
the last six weeks at Studley. Every man-
guest has been in khaki, and the giris were
mostly flappers who had been denied their
legitimate “coming-out” revelry on account
of the war.
Sporting Clive Leonard with his wife
and a Herbert Power girl have tracked to
Sydney to watch the Easter gallops. Airs.
Clive looks pale and fragile after enduring
three operations on her pretty little nose.
lan, tiie Jack MacMeickans’ son and
heir, has humped His bluey to some remote
spot beyond Port Augusta, where he will
give rain-maker Balsillie a hand at drought
breaking. The assistant thunderstorm
manufacturer wears a reject badge under
his coat lapel.
John Leckie, the win-tlie-war candidate
for Indi, who says that he comes into the
fight because the old member “was not pre-
pared to sacrifice everything for the
Empire,” got a wife last week to help him
do his sacrificing. She is Hattie Knight, a
bright little lady who has written many a
postscript to this letter, and of late has been
driving a pen for Sydney Sun.
Banker Cowper and his wife, who had
planned to winter in Australia, have done
a fast trip back to Maoriland, where Mrs.
Cowper, sen., lies seriously ill. Laura Nyulasy
had snatched a few moments from her patri-
otic jobs to help sister Madge (Mrs. Cow-
per) make holiday; but the sudden alarm
cancelled everything.
The presence in Melbourne of Hugh
Wright, of the Mitchell Library, was seized
on by some of the ink-and-paint fraternity as
an excuse for a dinner, which came to pass at
Fasoli’s on Wednesday. Water-colorist
McNally acted as master of ceremonies, and
Roberts, of the Tramways, Jack Sliirlow (a
collection of whose etchings has been bought
by the Mitchell trustees), poet Brady (fresh
from the wilds of Mallacoota), Bob Croll
and others made illuminating remarks about
art, literature and sundries—especially sun-
dries. Afterwards everybody adjourned to
McNally’s flat, which is not a “place” within
the meaning of the early-closing law.
The 2nd Infantry Brigade Comforteers had
a great party last Tuesday. General
Forsyth (of the 2nd) is taking up the job
of State Commandant in South Aus., and
the .Comforteers gave a farewell to him and
Mrs. Forsyth. The lady they presented with
a miniature of her warrior-husband, who
made a speech of thanks. Colonel Le
Maistre, Major Cass and Padre Hearne also
had something to say, and there was plenty
oc music and toasting. Mrs. A. E. V.
Richardson sang a hymn dedicated to our
soldiers—words by Lady Stanley—and Dolly
Stewart, Margaret Murdoch and Mrs.
Honeybone also made music for the party.
Food was spread in the Collins-street Geisha
Tearooms.
The Arthur Robbs’ only son, Lieut. Jack,
has fallen in France, and many beyond the
family circle are mourning for the good-
looking, genial boy. He was serving under
his uncle, General Tivey, at the last.
Dr. Kent Hughes, whose first outing with
the British A.M.C. was cut short by illness,
is getting back to khaki to do special surgi-
cal work.
The Bowes Kelly family have existed in a
perfect ferment of excitement since a cable
came along saying that the elder son, Lieut.
Moncton, had been mentioned in dispatches
after two years’ hard service.
Melba was due to sail from San Francisco
on April 4, and should be in Australia about
May 4. Whilst at San Diego, she inspected
the Spreckels organ at the San Diego Ex-
position Buildings, and was so delighted with
it that she sang the Ave Maria from
“Otello” to the accompaniment of the city
organist, Dr. Stewart. She also visited
Point Loma, and was entertained by Mrs.
Tingley, the Theosophist. The 21st Infan-
try turned out at San Diego under the com-
mand of Colonel J. P. O’Neil, and serenaded
her at the U.S. Grant Hotel. According to
the cable, the final burst of song at San
Francisco resulted in a £4OOO house for war
relief.* That brings her total up to about
£50,000.
On Good Friday the showmen earned
their hot cross buns with something they
called Sacred Concerts. Her Majesty’s had
Kirby and Collier singing about Pleaven and
the Most High with the assistance of a
solemn church choir, and Dorothy Brunton
in her most “Canary Cottage” frillies warb-
ling “High Jinks” ditties. After Elsie
Treweek, the choir and Stella Power had
sung about the Crucifixion the gloom was
lightened by Field Fisher strumming a
banjo and Workman chirping something
v? m “ lo i‘ mthe -” Jack Hooker and Reita
t agent then sang a eroony melody and
danced, while the solemn choir sat immov-
ably ni the background. The religious singers
were still there when the curtain fell at the
interval; but when it rose again they had
disappeared. I had the uneasy feeling that
an avenging Providence had whisked them
away Then we had Biblical tableaux—
Abraham and Isaac. John the Baptist. St
I aii!, the Annunciation, the Prodigal Son,
Alary Magdalene, and Samson and Delilah.
The house was packed to the ceiling. The
gods sat heavily through the oratorio work,
but shrieked with delight at the smiles and
piancmgs of Dorothy 8., who held up the
show while she invited suggestions for her
encores. When at last Billie Burrell, the
curly-haired accompanist youth, succumbed
to exhaustion, a fluffily-pretty lady in i
flame-colored frock (Miss Walstab, the
theatre’s “house pianist”) appeared and
slapped the keys valiantly till the finish.
Stella Power (Melba’s prot6g€e) wore a
lovely gown of blue tulle with shoes and
other things to match, and Elsie Treweek
in white had her heavy black hair banded in
brilliants. Kirby leavened his sacred sing-
ing with love-ballad encores, and some good
soul who knows his tastes handed up a box
of chocolates. He had fairly earned them.
But why not some toffee?
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


K4>
S&
m
IV
ca
M,
I
S 5»
#:o;i
"/>
//
4
\V
f
SS
f r,
<s
'r
0
r>
iWk
m
*
s
1
»*.*v*
swa
♦l4:s-
-
il
«♦>
V*£
5S*
f «4
it
*;vt*
<W
m
*
I
?*v«
r
SA9
1
S 3
B&S
&♦*
\N
%
\V
//
'V/
o
w*
m
v\
ivm vX '
te.i
M///»ltfHllU!
Vw
vlv
2
AAA
IV
. • ;- : *J
•; : -
liliiiilliiiili
iiiliiilii
♦%y
;;;;;;;
•• ;'v • :
1: : ; . :. . .
I;i:*
♦ ♦
m
v
m
m
DE WA R S
WHISKY


P. ®. o.
Royal Mail Steamers
for England.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Passage Tickets are sectionally interchangeable with the Orient
Company.
First Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
between Australian ports.
For Fares and all further particulars apply to
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Agents,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tel., City 6321.
King George IV
m
WHISKY
th E TOP NOTCH’ scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Kalavis” (Sinai) : Have just read in
The Bulletin (30/11/’l6j a couple of pars, re dis-
tance jumped by kangaroos. Agree that 20ft. is
about the average; but they can do more. Saw one
in clearing a netting fence do 39ft. as measured by
twine and verified by a tape. On another occasion
saw an old Too feeding in a swamp. After a while,
the grass apparently not suiting him, he hopped
towards an island and quietly took flight for the
other bank. The water-jump cleared was just over
30ft. When out in the Western Desert last year we
often came across little mobs of gazelles. These
would often clear 20ft. on the hard gravel, of which
the desert thereabouts is composed. Out here on the
eastern side they are not so numerous, and, this Sinai
country being mostly loose sand, they don’t seem to
worry about jumping. They just scoot. There are
few animals or birds, but any amount of reptiles in
this northern portion of Sinai—chameleons, asps,
horned vipers and scorpions, the last-named up to
Sin. long. What do these creatures drink? There is
no fresh water between the Canal and El Arish.
Even the best wells are very brackish, and are
beyond the reach of gazelles and hares and hyamas.
The heavy soaking dews that fall each night are
perhaps the explanation. The quails of Moses I have
seen, but not in very great numbers. The manna of
the same gent, has not put in appearance yet, though
the Bedouins say that it is on the menu for next
month. At present, the only things which fall from
Heaven daily are bombs. The manna would be
enthusiastically welcomed in their place.
“McNortli”: Kendall River, the home of
the runaway Binghis mentioned by “A.C.” (B.
15/3/T7), enters the sea on the shores of the Gulf of
Carpentaria, and was only recently opened for recruit-
ing. It is real myall country and great care was taken
to see that the blacks were given a fair deal. The
Government Resident at Thursday Island personally
enlisted some 40 or 50*of the bucks as crews for the
Torres Strait pearling boats. At first, knowing
nothing of the ways of the white man or the hand-
ling of a boat, they were the champion awkward
squad, but they improved with practice and being
good swim-divers did fairly well. Still, the call of
home was most insistent and they made several
desperate attempts to break for their country. A
month or two ago 22 of them stole some dinghies and
paddled from Thursday to Prince of Wales Island,
which they thought was the mainland. Discovering
their mistake, they pulled to Entrance Island and
started to swim across the shark-infested waters of
Endeavor Strait to the mainland ten miles away.
The Lord only knows how they did it, but 17 man-
aged to beat the tides and dodge the everlasting
sharks and reached the coveted shore. The other
five are overdue.
* * * *
“Montalex”: The recent death of a Syd-
ney showman from the bite of a fangless tiger-snake
confirms a Hindu “charmer’s” assurance to me
that extraction of the poison-fangs does not render
a cobra harmless, because the venom can still be
ejected into the mouth, and may get into punctures
made by the small ordinary teeth. There were only
two ways, he said, to make a cobra safe—to destroy
the poison-glands or stitch up the mouth. The
latter was generally done, because the former often
killed the snake. But what he probably did not
know was that in the cobra the poison-fang on
each side is backed up by a reserve of loosely-
attached representatives, the foremost of which,
Upon removal of the poison-fang, comes into active
service by becoming fixed to the jaw-bone and con-
nected with the poison gland. The fact that the
cobra’s bite often causes death within a few minutes
is a sufficient answer to the silly statement, made at
a recent inquest in Sydney, that the tiger-snake’s
venom is four times stronger than the cobra’s.
* * * *
“Koln”: There are a good many claimants
for the large-family bonus amongst our birds. The
emu lays up to 14 eggs, and the little lowan, or
mallee-fowl, unloads up to 15. Sometimes as many
as 18 or 20 eggs are found in one mound, but in
these cases it is believed that two hens have used the
one nest. On the whole the prize must go to Mrs.
YVood-duck. She lays 17 or 18 eggs, and, what is
more, she hatches the lot. I have seen clutches of
17 chicks all swimming merrily after the one
duck, and a friend from Wagga tells me he saw
three clutches of 17 each in one afternoon: Some
of the other ducks—most of them, in fact —lay abun-
dantly. The mountain duck, for example, drops as
many as 16, but I never saw more than 13 with the
one mother.
* * # *
“Special Leave”: Who holds the horse-
breaking record? I enter “Florrie” O’Sullivan, from
the Dawson River (Q.), with the tally of 1030 in
six years. The best month’s work saw 25 delivered.
If “Florrie” can dodge the age limit, he will soon
be doing his whack at the big scrap.
THE STRIKE.
PIOUS PASSER-BY : “Weed I say, my good fellows, how glad I am to see you are able to
keep away from that hotel as well as I can?”
BILL: “(Had yer one of us, mister. I was just sayin’ ter me mates 'ere, ‘’Aug out another
day an’ 'e's bound ter bring th’ price down.'”
WHERE THE CROCKERY COMES FROM.
BILLO (reading news item): “‘W. A. Clark, the Montana copper-king 'as had made to
order a dinner-service that cost £24,000.’ Gorblime, Liz, d’yer hear that?”
LIZ: “My—what a blitherin' lot o' coupons that bloke muster saved up!"
“D.D.”: The dumb language in use
amongst the aborigines of the Northern Territory
-(“W.J.R.,” B. 8/3/’l7) is referred to by Spencer and
Gillen in their fine book “Across Australia.” It is
not a case of spelling words by means of finger
movements, each one of which indicates a letter, as
with the deaf and dumb in civilised communities.
The blacks have a sign, invariably made by one
hand, for all animals and most things of everyday
life. One great advantage of the dumb move-
ments is that they serve as a sort of
universal language by means of which natives who
speak different dialects can communicate with one
another. The ban of silence on women (referred by
by “W.J.R.”) is usually for a few months or at
most a year; but women occasionally prefer to
remain under the ban for extended periods. Spencer
and Gillen tell of a woman -who had remained silent
for 25. years! The women do not seem to consider
enforced silence a hardship. Without making any
sound except that of laughing they easily communi-
cate with one another by the remarkable gesture
language. The ban does not preclude the women-
folk from wailing for the dead. Spirits of the
departed are supposed to haunt the camps, and are
gratified on seeing or hearing old companions per-
forming the mourning ceremonies. A woman is
usually released from the silence ban by a man
who voluntarily holds out his hand for her to bite
until blood is drawn. She then shows her gratitude
by presenting him with an offering of food.
“Ulooloo” : I had always supposed that a
snake with its back broken was helpless, but here is
how 1 learned otherwise. As I was going down the
big hill near Gosford (N.S.W.) one day a black
snake, the red-bellied variety, moved off the road at
a leisurely crawl a few yards ahead of me. Couldn't
find a suitable waddy handy, but dropped on to a
flat piece of stone about 71b. weight. I hit the devil
with this just as he was crossing a fiat rock, with
the result that red-belly was almost cut in halves.
Elated, I started to rake my supposedly-helpless
victim on to the road with a short piece of bark,
when in a flash his head came up, and he jumped
back at me, missing my wrist by something less than
an inch. Then I secured a longer twig; but several
times again the reptile reared up and tried to jump
at me. The dead weight of his rudder end was too
great a handicap, however, and loss of blood soon
settled him. He measured 6ft. 3in. Now I’m only
satisfied that a snake is helpless when he’s entirely
and uncompromisingly dead.
* * * *
“Musketoon”: Pass the season’s big-load
prize. This lot was wheat - brought to Wellington
(N.S.YV.) railway station by Charlie Finch. Four-
teen horses drew the waggon 16 miles. Weight
of wheat, 21 tons 2ewt. P.S. —There were 280 bags
of grain aboard. '
* * * »•
“Yamim” : Is it big trees you’re after?
Here is a sample of a spotted-gum sapling grown on
the Clyde River (N.S.W.). It was punted from the
Shallow Crossing to Nelligen (14 miles), sawn
at Manning’s mill, and furnished material for five
furlongs of two-rail fencing.
“Lord Toothpick”: If “B.A.T. Co.” (B.
8/3/T7) wants a genuine cure for blight here it is.
Grind a lump of alum into powder and plape on a
red-hot shovel for a few minutes. Threequarters of
a teaspoon of this, when cool, blown through a straw
into the affected eye when the white skin has formed
will cause Mr. or Mrs. Bull to roar like a scalded
devil, and possibly kick the bail to blasts; never
theless one or two applications—never more—will
prove highly satisfactory. Blight generally occurs
during a prolific grass season, and is caused by the
long grass or grass-seeds continually irritating the
eye while the animal is feeding. The white lump
which appears on the ball of the eye will eventually
turn into cancer if no cure is effected. Blight is very
prevalent in the Fassifern district (Q.), and the
above cure is looked upon as a cert.
THE SECRET.
PROSPECTIVE RUYER FROM THE CITY: “Er—
er—aw: I say! What sort of — aw—
etc ops do you genewally get up heah?"
SELLER: “Well, look here, mister. I’ll tell you
a secret. It entirely depends upon what
per put in!”
“J. 11.” : I’m just bursting to ask “M.P.A."
(B. 15/3/ ! 17) why Wirths’ stacked a load of 17 tons
on one jinker, when they usually have enough of them
to carry the national debt. Also, the vehicle must
have had tyres like a roadroller to comply with the
Tyre Act. And if the ground was so sodden that the
jinker sank with them and sat on the road, how was it
that those three-ton elephants, exerting a strain of
another three tons, did not bog also? I would like
to have these points explained before I buy a setting
of elephants to work the farm. I know that in their
wild state the ponderous brutes are often found
bogged in rotten ground, and I want to make sure
that they have better manners when they are tame.
(Continued on page 24.)
TOO LATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The boys were told that Sam that day
From Melbourne city far away
Had brought a blooming bride to Yainra,
And off they went to call on Sam,
With bottles, drums and flutes in hand,
All members of the district band.
Approaching Spooner’s home they heard
The echo of a bitter word,
'The crash of glass. With splendid aim
A figure through the window came.
They braced the fallen with a dram,
And gaped in wonder. It was Sam!
Steve, putting obvious facts aside,
Made kind inquiries re the bride.
Said he: “We s’pose it ain’t too late
The bridegroom to congratulate?”
With true regret responded Spooner:
“Why wasn’t yous a minute sooner?”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


David Jones’
ensOrient’Pyjamas
\mm
■ l
from 7)6.
Made in bold-stripe designs in
Blue, Grey, Pink or Helio, on
good-quality Cevlonette, in
sizes 34 to 44 inches chest.
“Orient” Pyjamas, like all
“Orient” goods, possess the
reliable combination of
SOUND VAL UE an d
DEPENDABILITY.
Other Standard
“Orient” Values.
Pure Fur Felt Hat 10/0
Golf or Tunic Shirt.... 4/0
Wool & Cotton Underwear,
from 5/11
Ready-to-Wear Suits.... 45/-
Sac Suits,, to measure... 84/-
Box Calf Boots 21/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL
“ ORIENT ” GOODS.
DAVID JONES LTD.
OPPOSITE G.P.O. SVDNEY.
gavui Nvnvaisnv
CfiVIODOI-O
£33 mm
DON'T buy Choco-
lates that have
travelled 10,000
miles and then stood
on a retailer's shelf for
six months.
Send direct to the
Factory and get Choco-
lates that contain no
preservative.
ai
■w
I
m
ms
Packed only in red boxes. Price: 3/-, 5/-, 6/6, 10/6, 15/-, 25/-
Post Free to Any Part ot Australia.
Mailed to you on
the same day as
manufactured.
m
162 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Leviathan Overcoats
11
2
ORDER
BY
POST .
1083. —G ai*bin ft 11 e
Raincoats (as illus-
trated). In the latest
Fawn colorings; with
storm Collar as shown;
deep vent at back; lined
throughout with Check
Plaid. Light and warm.
Proof against
Wind and
Rain
35-
Better qualities in all the
most fashionable shades
—step or storm Collar,
42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-,
03/- to 84/-
m
WE
PAY
CARRIAGE.
1181. —English Tweed
Overcoats, single-
breasted styles (us illus-
trated). In Brown,
Dark and Medium Grey
British Tweeds. Half-
belt and vent at back.
Strap cuffs; Raglan or
set-in sleeves,
Cosily lined
throughout
42|-
Better qualities, 55/
57/6, 60/-, 67/6, 70/
75/- to 110/-
'•.V"
-
1 1 B 3.—l> o u b 1 e-
breasted Tweed Over-
coats (as illustrated).
Iu Fancy Grey and
Brown English Tweeds of
soft, fleecy finish. Half-
belt and deep vent at
back. Thor-
oughly well
lined
501-
lii better qualities, 55/
67/6, 75/-, 84/-, 95/
to 120/-
State Chest (over Vest), inside Sleeve and Height.
Leviathan
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/- each
BRITISH-MADE
m
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5-each
Some Fine Examples of Columbia. Records
on Sale at all First Class Music Dealers.
LIGHT BLUE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch, double-sided, 6 - each.
By SIR THOMAS BEECH AM, conducting the BEECHAM SYMPHONY
ORCHESTRA.
TOOTT
{“The Magic Flute Overture.—ln two parts m"i'
[symphony Patlietique—2nd Movement t. .. (i scliaiKOWSkj ).
1,1016
I Symphony Pathetique—3rd
Movement
1.1020
(Massenet)
(Strauss)
( Minuet de “Manon”
\ “The Bose Cavalier” Waltz
1,1040
• (Stravinsky).
{ “Ij’Ooiseau de Feu”—Suite from Ballet—Two parts
By SIR HENRY J. WOOD, conducting his ORCHESTRA.
900 IT:
J Shepherd’s Hey, No. 16
I Symphony No. 4 (111): Scherzo
(Percy A. Grainger).
.... (Tscliaikowsky).
stott:
f “Tristan
l “Tristran
and Isolde” —Prelude <lgner)
and Isolde” —Isolde’s Love Song
1,1021
f Grand March, “Tannhauser” / <
{ “Coriolan” Overture in “C” Minor (keel no veil)
L 1024
f Espana Rhapsody for Orchestra
I Irish Tune from County Derry ' (Percy j.
(Chabrier).
L Grainger).
L 1027
S' The Bide of the Valkyries, from “The Valkyries” (Wagner)
I The Song of the Rhine Daughters, from “The Twilight of the Gods”
(Wagner)
L 1033
f Shepherd Fennel’s Dance
{ Traume (Dreams) .......
(H. Balfonr Gardiner)
(Wagner)
By VLADIMIR DE PACHMANN (Pianoforte).
LlOO9
( Prelude, Op. 28, Iso. 24, in “14” Minor (Cbopin)
) (Impromptu, Op. 29, in “A” Flat (Chopin)
1.1010
| (aj Etude, Op. 25, No. 3, in “F” Major, (b) I’relmle, <»]>. 28,
-{ No. 16, in “B” Flat Minor
[ Polonaise —Cadenza L
(Cliopin)
(Liszt)
LlOl4
(Chopin).
I Nocturne in “E” Elat, Op. !), No. 2
( (a) Mazurka, Op. 67, No. 4. (b) Prelude, Op. 28, No. 23
By the LONDON STRING QUARTETTE.
1,1004
( Andante from Quartette in “G” Minor, Op. 10 (Debussy)
1 Andante Cantabile. Quartette, Op. 11 .(Tscbaikowsky)
1,1019
lAn Irish Melody—The Londonderry Air (Frank Bridge).
I Molly on the Shore —Irish Reel ..... •. ■• ■. _ (Percy Grainger).
1,1031
11013
| Slave Quartette, Op. 26. (a) Interludium. (b) Alla Mazurka .. (G-lazonnow).
-| Mozart Quartette, No. 14. (a) Allegro, (b) Andante (Mozart).
LlOl5
QUARTETTE and TRIO.
Rigoletto: Quartette, “Fairest Daughter of tine Graces’’ (Verdi)
In English, by Rosina Buekinan, Edith Clegg, Maurice D’Oisley and
Frederick Austin (with Orchestra).
Faust: Trio (Prison Scene), “Holy Angels in Heaven Blest” .... (Gounod)
In English, by Rosina Buekinan, Maurice D'Oisiy, and Frederick
Ranalow (with Orchestra).
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS-
SIDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell. Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade. >•
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 213 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin's Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
MEGGITT’S
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
v:
N!
A
v: '
>
mx i
O'
r $
S*
p)gs. calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-bil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. H. McD. Livingstone,
Ilosehill Farm, Ivingaroy, at the 1916 show won
seven first prizes with a pen of calves and won the
three butter-fat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-
oil meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.,
y
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers, Parramatta, N. S. Wales.
I‘Melos” : The eggs turned up by “Yatti”
(B. 15/3/’l7) were not those of the true copperhead,
which is, in common with our other death-dealing
crawlers (excepting the brown), viviparous (produc-
ing the young alive). Incidentally, there appear to
he many misconceptions with regard to our reptilia.
At the inquest on a showman who died in Sydney
Hospital recently, after having been bitten by a snake
that he was exhibiting, Dr. Palmer, Government
Medical Officer, said that “it was the second local
death from the bite of a snake which was supposed
to have had its fangs extracted.” Such a statement
supports the popular theory that reptiles are ren-
dered innocuous by the removal of their fangs. It
should he remembered that, in all of our venomous
snakes, there are always g, number of immature fangs,
between the two in use! and, if the latter be re-
moved, another pair will be fully developed and
ready for service within 10 days.
BE REASONABLE.
"Look-here, I gave you half a crown last
week’.”
"Yes. But you’ve earned more since then,
ain't yer?"
“Pick”: Another sure way to make the
jibber think better of it is to fasten a length of
barbed wire around where the breeching’ decorates his
anatomy. But see that the country ahead is clear
of obstacles, cripples and dogs before the slacker
sits hack, or he might bounce them over the horizon
the next time he hits the landscape.
THE NEST.
"Dear friends, next Sunday being egg-day on behalf of our Children's Home, will the con-
gregation kindly lay their eggs in the font as they come into church!”
“Try Fluke”: The Rev. McSwizzle was
new to Opukutahi (M.L.), and when he found him-
self the only soul in kirk one fine Sunday he thought
up some blistering things about the destiny of the
absentees and set out sinner-hunting. He found all
hands, to his horror, grass-seeding on the hills, man,
woman and tamaiti. The hapu knocked off to listen
to the shepherd's spirited description of the fate
that awaited them in the Bad Place. They listened
very respectfully until the Rev. McSwizzle was quite
done. Then the boss greybeard, Paru Kau, removing
the cocksfoot stalk from between his teeth, spoke:
“Mister Makawiri, listen to me now. You te tauhou,
te noo feller here. Te ole parson, Mister Tikcra, lie
un erstan things proper, he no go roun’ like kuka
screechin at all to other birds because they don’t-
sing like him. No, by korry, lie come out an' take
his coat off and work wi’ us! Now, Mister Makawiri,
you tell me this. What did Ihu Ivaraiti say ’bout
pulling tired ole horse out of te ditch oil Sunday?
Didn’t He say that te very proper thing to do
for Krishun man? Well now then! Suppose'te rain
come an’ te Maori no get his grass-seed saved, by
Kris', te poor ole Maori he soon be in te ditch right
enough!”
“W.M.S.”: “E.S.S.” recently asserted
Unit “the only Australian birds which sing at night
are the reed warbler, the blue wren and the bush-
lark.” “Chink” joins issue to point out that
“E.S.S.” is in error, as “the black-and-white fantail
also sings at night, likewise the magpie.” As a
matter of fact, there are many birds which sing, or
call, at night; but there are only a few of what one
might term habitual singers. The birds mentioned by
“E.S.S.” are all liabituals. Can that much be said
of the magpie? The writer has lived in the bush for
over 20 years, and has never heard a magpie sing at
night unless the conditions happened to be favorable.
He has actually seen these matchless carollers travel-
ling at night, but it was when the whole landscape
was flooded with moonlight. Several species of birds
sing in bright moonlight that are never heard when
it is dark. The true night singers are the bushlark,
the blue wren, the reed warbler and the black-and-
white flycatcher (wagtail) ; and in a lesser degree
the most common of the cuckoos. In the writer’s
judgment the little reed warbler is the star of the
night singers in Australia, as it gives forth its joyous
and beautiful note with the greatest spirit irrespec-
tive of conditions.
“Billy T.” : We liad come down from St.
Arnaud on Campbell's two-horse waggon, and were
camped at Kitchen’s, this side of Bealiba. Kitchen
was a big-footed, iron-crate of a man, with rusty
hair and whiskers, and an expression of indurated
animosity. He explained over a pipe that he had
been much troubled of late by people who stole his
chickens and picked his peaches. There was a
navvies’ camp not half a mile away, and Kitchen
might easily have individualised the marauders; hut
he preferred to cherish a grievance against
mankind at large. After tea that evening,
while 1 was sitting on the verandah and
Kitchen was busy with the upbringing of
a bed of French beans, a small, sad-eyed man, with
a swag'and a battered billy, came limping up the
path. “Hi!” yelled Kitchen. “You go chase your-
self.’ He ran at the caller, rushed him down the
path, and fired him into the dust of the highway.
Kitchen came back, but before he reached the bean
bed the other was at his heels, wholly dispassionate.
“Why, d —n your eyes!” Kitchen cried, seized the
fellow again, and kicked him five times between the
bed and the garden gate. But while Kitchen was
kneeling at his beans, up came the stranger once
more, not smiling, hut certainly without prejudice.
He hadn’t time to open his lips before Kitchen was
at him. This time Kitchen towed the man out,
kicked him twice, and left him sprawling. Again
the wayfarer came on witli a half-spoken phrase, and
was tossed out again. For the fifth time swaggie
drifted in. Kitchen sat among his vegetables and
gasped. That gave the traveller a chance at last.
“I say. Mister,” lie said, “could you tell me how fur
it is to Emu Bridge?”
“Dick C.”: In reply to “B.A.T. Co.” re
blight in bullocks’ eyes, I advise this remedy, which
I have found efficacious if used promptly: loz. laud-
anum and 5 drams sulphate zinc, in one and a half
pints of rain water. Till a small spring-bottom oil-
can and inject or squirt it in the eye every morning,
“Poddy” : “4217 Gunner” (B. 1/3/T7)
forgot to cut off the top and put a handle in his
kerosene-tin, otherwise he would have found that it
held four gallons nicely. The holes at the sides to
take in the handle account for the quarter-gallon
difference.
“Condamine”: I’ve seen the spine-tnilod
swifts settle. They swarm here (Condamine, Q.) at
times, and at night they cling to the under-
side of a limb and to each other exactly as
bees do. At another place there is a cliff about
20ft. high dotted over with mud nests, much like
hornets’ nests, and in the season the swifts are all
day circling in front of these, but I can't say
whether they doss in the domiciles at night.
“Nell”: When “Wart” (B. S/3/’l7)
claimed that the only real Australian deciduous tree
grew in Tasmania, he quite overlooked the coral trees.
These are natives-of the North Coast of N. S. Wales
and of Queensland, but are extensively cultivated,
especially in the Illawarra (N.S.W.) district. They
belong to the g’enus Erythrina, and the two Aus-
tralian species (E. vespertilio and E. indica ) are
both deciduous. Their large, handsome, red flowers
arrive in early Spring, the leaves putting in an
appearance some weeks later. They afford excellent
shade, and I have seen blackfellows’ shields made
from their soft wood.
“Narroe”: “Musketoon” (B. 15/3/’l7)
doesn t know much about Lake Cowal. He never saw
wheat and hay crops flourishing on the bed of the
lake because there is no farming done owing to the
cracky and quite unsuitable nature of the soil. A
nearby squattah tried a few acres of wheat on a
selected piece of ground in the lake some years ago.
and lost good money on the venture. Pelicans, con-
trary to “Musketoon’s” statement, have been plentiful
on the creeks and dams surrounding the lake for the
past 20 years to my knowledge. Duck-slaughterers
report seeing numbers of young pelicans, also peli-
can nests; and young ibis are in thousands. The last-
mentioned bird nests in the lignum (more correctly,
polygonum) bush, and the neighborhood smells like
a Senate scandal.
Harrison (). : I had heard much about
cocky s miles and lately got on cursing terms with
them by sentencing myself to three weeks’ hard
labor in the shape of a Victorian walking tour.
In estimating distance the cocky is always in con-
flict with road maps and himself. Between Belgrave
and Emerald a cocky’s mile is about 10 furlongs:
from Croydon to Lilydale it is rarely less than 12
furlongs. At Yea we collected half a dozen cocky
estimates of the distance to Seymour, and they
averaged IS miles. Measured on a road map it
" a; fomut guilty of being 2S. It is unanimouslv
resolved that no recommendation to mercy on behalf
of the cocky should he considered, as at one stage
of the journey it is about 16 miles between drinks.
In three weeks we must have made' inquiries anenl
distances from over 50 tillers of the soil, and the
only reasonably reliable reply was furnished by a
Hayseed near Alexandra. We asked him how far
it was to Ta 11arook and he said it was a h —l of a
way.
*** - .
“Bob D.” : “Waudi” (B. 22/3/’l7) men-
tions the possible consequences of turning cats loose
to destroy rabbits. His contentions are proved by a
similar experiment carried out in the Berrima
(N.S.W.) district some years ago. Within a few
months the pussies ran wild, put most of the native
cats out of action, and reckoned rabbits poor sport
when there was a wallaby to bring down. There was
also a little inter-breeding between bunny and pussy,
and the offspring was both a carnivorous and herb-
ivorous creature. It would eat as many things as a
billygoat, and tackled gras? only as a. last resort.
The inter-breeding, however, was limited, but what
there was of it justified the inhabitants in potting
the cats off with a shotgun whenever they caught up
with them.
# * • *
“D.IL” : The little opossum mouse is one
Australian animal, at any rate, that hibernates.
Mrs. Roberts has one in her private zoo. at llohart
and it sleeps for nearly six months. It wakes up
occasionally during that time, but it eats hardly
anything and seems to live on its own fat, for it
is in fine condition in the autumn and wakes up
very hungry and tinn in the spring. It’s only a
lightweight at the best of times, going 2',0z., hut
it’s a giant compared with another little fellow
belonging to a smaller species that Mrs. Roberts
used to have. About quarter of an ounce was his
fighting weight-when he was as big as he was ever
going to be.
* * * »
“Pick”: Where the soldier-bird guards a
frontage to forest country, the nearby seed farmer
has a surer hope of his crops than his neighbors
farther plainwards, for there isn’t room for that nark,
the sparrow, in soldier territory. When not chasing
the English marauder over the horizon, the feathered
Anzac is constantly on sentry go to give warning
when a blue-tongue is sampling the hen-fruit or a
gohanna is stalking the chickens. Incidentally, he also
blows the look-out whistle when a pea-rifle fiend or
shot-gun “sport” is abroad.
MUSTERING.
(After Billjim returns.)
“Boobook”: “Leo Lear” (B. 15/3/T7)
asks if any Abo. has seen spine-tailed swifts settle.
Yes; near Warwick (Q.), on the face of the cliffs
at the head of the gorge down which the Emu Creek
tumbles. Date, Easter, 1903. The cliffs at these
falls are 380 ft. high.
“Geebung” : The only way to domesticate
a lyre-bird is to get an egg or two, place them with
a hen that is hatching some of her own, and wait for
results. If the wild chicks arrive be sure to feed
them as much as possible on their natural food. In
any case, don't allow their foster-mother to suckle
them.
TIER GRIM GUARDIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see her oft. She is to me
The destined girl, the one and only.
I go wherever she may he,
Disconsolate, and always lonely.
I see her on the white sea sands,
I see her in the gardens daily.
Her feet are tiny, slim her hands.
Her hair is looped in golden bands;
She smiles, 1 think, a trifle gaily.
As I've construed that fleeting smile
It bids me dare. I do not, ever—
Its pleasant seeming may he guile.
Alone, alas! I meet her never.
//<• stands on guard there, sullen-eyed;
His smile invites me to a struggle ;
A rascal full of fleshly pride,
Bow-legged, with chest absurdly wide—■
A loathly show of hair and muscle.
Beloved is my blue-eyed belle;
The bully at her side as hated.
He knows my soft intentions well;
II is vigilance is unabated.
She uses him, I'm much afraid,
To keep me always at a distance;
If breaks the chain, I shall ho flayed!
■ ince Adam’s day did ever jade
Rut up so dogged a resistance?
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
“Rann I).”: The habit of tracking back to
the home of his ancestors when anything goes wrong
with him is one of Binghi’s most deeply-rooted
instincts. And when he gets hack ho sticks tig-lit. I
remember an intelligent half-caste trapper on the
Lower Warrego who owned his horse and springcart
and had a tidy balance in the bank. Blight and
grass-seeds affected his eyes one year, and lie was
threatened with blindness, so he packed up his traps
and set off 150 miles to the camp of his gin's and
mother's people. Nothing could make him budge
from there. A mounted trooper tried to persuade
him to go down to the Deebing Creek Settlement,
where he could get medical attention, but he only shook
his head. Brisbane was too cold, and he’d be sure
to die there. The township hospital was only 70
miles away; but years before he’d heard of a black-
hoy "ho’d been neglected there. For two years the
spring-cart and harness lay rotting near the camp,
and then the half-caste died of sheer boredom, and
his gin sold his effects to an Indian hawker for a
few plugs of tobacco and some cloth.


m
Who Buys Best?
The man who buys a 5 lb. loaf of
bread at 7|d. or the one that pur-
chases a 411 b. loaf for B|d. —?
it if it if
This is a fair simile as compared to the weight,
thickness and Strength of the Standard White Tread
/(
Vo
Dtw* rv»
n
\
lllllinTnfrmS
-ifflllll
815 x 105
DUNLOP
as against some of the imported light weight high-priced covers on the Australian market
We illustrate a drawing of an actual section of this size Dunlop, which sells at £7 / 6/ 6.
You will note the great strength represented by six plies of the heaviest, strongest and
best motor duck made in the world. You will also note the great thickness of our
high-grade tough white rubber on the wearing tread, representing thousands of miles of
satisfactory service. As to construction the Dunlop equals the world’s best.
So certain are we that no American-made 815 x 105 cover listed at
£B/9/- in Australia can compare with this £7/6/6 cover —either for
value given or running cost per mile —that we respectfully suggest that
any American house, with a cover to compare to this 815 x 105 Dunlop,
publish a sectional drawing of THEIR cover, and thereby demonstrate
to Motorists that their tyre has a POSSIBLE CHANCE of approaching
the satisfactory and economical service our 815 x 105 cover is to-day
giving thousands of users. We vouch for the accuracy of the section
shown herein, and await the publication of the section of 815 x 105
American cover selling at £B/9/- that can com-
pare with the Dunlop.
On the basis of Quality and Weight, THE
DUNLOP is worth £lO as compared to
the Imported £B/9/- cover.
Hundreds of 815 x 105 “ Dunlops” are in use on the leading
Taxi Services, and their average mileage under severe
running conditions —is over 5,320 miles, and that’s why
they are selected.
SV-&SV
.fir «* - f-r
==
ill i
Actual thickness of
Dunlop “Grooved"
815 x 105 Cover,
Average
Weight 19Ubs.
KEEP THIS :::
ILLUSTRATION
FOR COMPARISON.
WHO BUYS BEST?
We say the Motorist who purchases tyres made with
Australian Capital and by Australian Workmen, who
keeps his money in his country, and in return gets
satisfaction and value —and that man is the
“DUNLOP” user. 1
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States & N.Z.
m


w
There is Nothing Better than
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
v\V
ss\l«
to
$
%
w
ty>
rs?
y*
ss**
fh
J»
--S
/
H
11
( c K.iriCl(~(Y initHr j
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
“HEARNE’S”
“8.J.”: According to the cable, C. Chap-
lin walks away with £150,000 a year. W.
A. Brady, of the World Film Corporation,
reckons that the four big-priced screen
performers who really earn their salaries
are Mary Pickford, Billie Burke, Chaplin
and Douglas Fairbanks. Both the men
owe part at least of their success’
to the fact that they are skilled
acrobats, and the women because they own
the kind of good looks popular with film
patrons. In moving-picture circles the wages
of mere histrionic ability, of however high
an order, are nothing to make a fuss about.
Sarah Bernhardt never received more than
£350 for her appearances in any one film,
Mounet Sully has not gone beyond £l5O,
and the most that Rejane or Bartet have
been able to command is £250 for a picture.
T. P. O’Connor, who has succeeded the
late Bedford as film censor in Britain, has
laid down his ideals and his intentions to a
crowd of producers and pressmen. Crime
cannot be barred, but “must not be the
Maple theme.” Buffoonery is a mere matter
of taste, and he will not interfere with a
knockabout picture, whatever he may per-
sonally think of it. Improper novels he will
not allow to be adapted, and the same
applies to certain plays—not named by him
—which have been tolerated on the stage.
O’Connor finished by laying stress on the
educational aspect as most important,
though “not at present the most lucrative.
He hopes to see a kinema installed in every
school before long.
The policeman who censors films for
Quebec lately banned the picture-version
of “Oliver Twist,” on the ground that it
was “a veritable lesson in sneak-thieving
and robbery.”
“Peg-Leg” : This is from the “Australian
Notes” published in the Moving Picture
World, a New York trade magazine:—
Owing to the increased Incoifie and Yi ar Profits
taxes John F. Gavin is seriously considering pro-
ducing his big feature picture, “The Birth of Aus-
tralia,” in California. Mr. Gavin says that under
the present state of affairs he can only clear eight
per cent, profit on his total outlay.
If that is the spirit actuating the pioneers
of Australian picture production there
doesn’t seem to be much hope for the indus-
try. Can't you see a Yankee Captain Cook
landing at Kurnell with his mouth full of
gum, and old Binglii being libelled by a buck
nigger? Any Australian concern which pro-
duct's a picture of even the slightest histori-
cal interest reckons to sell at least one copy
to the Federal Parliament to be placed in
the archives. That generally covers one
quarter of the cost of the whole production;
and the Government which contributed that
much to pay for a “Birth of Australia” pic-
ture manufactured in the U.S.A. would
deserve half a dozen censure motions for
wasting public money in a sinful manner.
“Van Eck” When “Daddy Long Legs”
finishes its run. J.C.W., I Ad., can revive it
on farcical lines and reap another harvest.
The comedy would make a big hit as; burlesque
without much alteration of the script. What
fun could be got out of it with long-legged
Clias. Milhvard wandering around dressed
up in tights as Jervis Pendleton ; Sara All-
good playing Judy in an Irish accent and
dropping gags; with Porky Kearns as Jamie
Macßride, and Dan Thomas in the part now
played by Maggie Moore! In any case the
experiment would be worth trying, even if
George Marlow got hold of it and insisted
on making the girls in the second act. wear
pyjamas in, as he would announce it, “a
novel bedroom scene.”
Oscar Asche’s birthday coincided with
Australia’s Foundation Day; so on January
26, to celebrate the double event, he gave a
special afternoon performance of “Chu
Chin Chow” at Tree’s theatre (London), in
aid of the Australasian Y.M.C.A. Field
Fund.
“B. Lanky”: What an ideal “Peg o’ My
Heart” Kathlene MacDonell, now starring in
“Daddy Long Legs,” would have made! She
has infectious charm, whereas Sara Allgood
has to rely on sheer hard work and artistic
cleverness. Yet put both in a real part,
involving something more than occupying
the centre of the stage and being fed by
every other character, and Sara Allgood
would probably prove herself the greater
actress. But for the unreal stuff supplied
by the United States mere personal charm
gives the actress a tremendous handicap.
“Harrison O.”: If there is any truth in
the allegation that “Fair and Warmer,” now
at Melbourne Royal, was a big success in
Uncle Sliam’s country, talk no more of the
Yank’s love of hustle. Anybody capable of
appreciating the first act of this farce would
detect nothing monotonous in the progress of
a tortoise, and would swear an information
against a cable tram for beating the speed-
limit. The act is made up of personal ex-
planations—more of ’em than I have ever
heard outside Parliament. The hero’s wife
explains to her lover what a dull dog her
husband is. Then she carefully explains
hubby’s character to hubby himself. He in
turn explains it to a friend; also, he ex-
plains that he doesn’t know why his wife
wants to divorce him. The friend explains
that it is because he (the husband) is such
a dull tyke. The subject of these explana-
tions passes the explanation on to a lady
friend, who explains exactly why he is a
dull Dido. After she has explained bow he
can overcome his dullness, the blessed curtain
explains that the audience can now have a
spell to digest the information. An ordinarily
skilful dramatist would put Billy in as an
exhibit and leave it at that; but this one
insists that practically everybody should
spend a solid hour testifying to William’s
dreariness.
A yarn about conjurers:—
Though lie is supported by some singers, Malini,
the little tubby magician now in Melbourne, is
really a one-man showman, and lie carries all his
gear around in a valise. The late Arthur Russell,
Melbourne dentist, founder of Ilovt’s picture shows,
was of the same craft in his young days. He had a
wonderfi 1 knowledge of the business. Sleight-of-
hand, illusions, “fire-eating,” ventriloquism—all
came easy to the versatile Russell. On one occasion
his wife was struck with the doings of a “fire-eater”
at a variety show and remarked on it to “the Doc,”
who said, in his usual confident way, that it wasn’t
anything to write home about, and that he could do
all that sort of thing. As his wife bad never heard
of him doing it she did not, he saw, take him seri-
ously ; so he decided to give her proof. When Mrs.
Russell went to bed the Doc (as everybody called
him) went outside to a workshop and prepared his
fire-eating. When he was quite ready he thought
better of it, because he just then remembered Dante’s
brother who got dreadfully disfigured while doing
similar work. So he blew out the candle he was
• using, and in doing so emitted a flame of fire. This
decided him. He sallied forth to the bed-chamber,
where he delivered an oration on fire-eaters, and
then started and puffed streams of fire across the
bed, towards the ceiling, and any old place. It quite
convinced Mrs. Russell that her husband could count
himself as a fire-swallower all right. He taught
Claude Guest (Wong Toy Sun) the fire-business, and
an interested spectator was a small-boy assistant.
When the lad was left to his own devices
he promptly started the fire going, and when
Claude returned to his workshop he found the bud-
ding artist blowing flame, while the tenants of the
building (a two-storeyed place behind Melbourne
Tivoli Theatre) gaped with astonishment. For fire-
eating, as it is called, is really fire-blowing. It is a
very simple process, but very risky if attempted by
an enthusiast who isn't really game. Dante’s brother
wasn’t the first to get burnt while dabbling in it.
“Konini”: Judge Stringer, of the M.L.
Arbitration Court, did a bit of kindly press-
agency work for Dunedin, ye ken, the ither
day. Counsel who was addressing him
opined that Rorridgeville was the worst show
town in the country. “Oh,” says his Honor,
“I was told by a member of the Italian
Grand Opera Company that they did better-
business in Dunedin than in any other town
in Maoriland.” The southern city has always
had a good name for loosening its purse
when musical cos. were the attraction, but
if “the best show town” in M.L. is the argu-
ment, I appear on behalf of Wellington.
Tenor John McCormack is a naturalised
Amurrikan now. The transformation was
worked recently in a District Court, and
Wilson’s country is richer by 2301 b. of first-
class tenor fat. It isn’t yet known whether
John will adopt the Yankee national costume
and haircut.
“Jwosp”: Jerome B. Kern, who has “Very
Good Eddie,” “Have a Heart,” “Oh, Boy”
and “Love o’ Mikb” all earning bread
for him, was a toiling unknown eight
years ago. He earned his board then by
being the pink pill for pale musical plays,
his songs being sandwiched with those of
Lehar, Strauss, Leo Fall, Ivan Caryll, Paul
Rubens and Leslie Stuart. He was pushed
out of his obscurity by his wife, and now
is able to talk about “atmosphere” and
arx-ange fancy orchestral effects for his works.
“Love o’ Mike,” the latest, has to have a
.concert grand and an upright piano with a
mandolin and banjo attachment. One of the
thigs that make Kern successful, according
to Henry W. Savage, is that he doesn’t in-
sist on having good singers. Why should
he?
“E.T.”: Drama flourishes in the most
unlikely places. Who w T ould imagine that a
playhouse—and a successful one—could
spring up in an internment camp? At
Ruhleben the prisoners have their very own
Irish theatre with Irish dramatists, scenic-
artists, producers, mummers and —mirabile
dictu —critics! The bhoys have already
staged some of the best-known works of
W. B. Yeats, Lady Gregory, Synge and
Shaw, as well as an original fai-cical comedy
and an Irish folk play. But they’re looking
forward keenest to a grand production of
“Freedom and Fresh Air” in 1017.
“C. Oekney”: With his old astuteness in
advertising, Bernard Shaw is once again
working the anonymity gag that served him
so well in the case of “Fanny’s First Play.”
A one-act piece was done recently in New
York called “The Inca of Jerusalem,” with
no author’s name attached. Good old Rumor,
most reliable of press-agents, got to work
and soon everybody knew that the too-retir-
ing Shaw- was responsible. Last month in
London the Stage Society gave two perform-
ances of another one-acter, “Augustus Does
His Bit.” described on the programme as
“An Unofficial Dramatic Tract on War
Saving and Cognate Topics, by the author
of ‘The Inca of Jerusalem.’ ” This sort of
cheap flim-flam certainly won’t help Pshaw
to get back that- iVvor he lias lost in Britain.
THE PERFUMED PLAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The latest idea is to perfume the theatre with
appropriate scents during the progress of a play.
When the theme is love, the audience will be sur-
rounded, submerged, in the odor of red roses the
flowers of love. When the old home on the farm
is produced, the theatre will be drowned in the
smell of new-mown hay. A new odor for every
emotion, a fresh perfume for every phrase—that is
the new idea. —Theatrical paper.
The perfume play is hither Mown.
To human eye and ear
The theatre appealed alone.
At length a change is near,
And managers with musk and rose
Will seek to have us by the nose.
Soon when the Marquis grim appears
The taint of awful rot
Will set the people in the tiers
All scenting out the plot.
No other sense is pleased ; ’tis well
To satisfy the sense of smell.
The comic man a taint will hold
Of rum; the wicked girl
Mill spread a hint of marigold;
The very rich old earl,
Who smelt of ipothballs in the past,
Of mint and stocks will breathe a blast.
You’ll know with what emotion fraught
The hero takes the stage.
You’ll smell the good girl’s kindly thought,
And sniff the villain’s rage.
P.S. —The patrons, on their legs,
May add a whiff of mouldy eggs.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Buttle oh": I dunno whether it’s the
early closin’ or war economy, or the extra
price of bottled stuff, but bottles is scarce.
Houses where I could always be sure of a
couple of dozen now put me off with a
measly three or four, and then want a sprat
for ’em. There isn’t tucker in it. Bags
are clean off. Y’might as well try to buy
diamonds. Bones ain’t what they was when
meat was cheap. So I put it to you: ain’t
compensation .a fair thing? The publican
he gets out. What about me?
“Marmoset": Kids’ finance? When I
was 12 we made on an average two bob a
week by supplying the doctor next door with
cats for experimental purposes. (lie was
a specialist in tropical diseases.) One morn-
ing when we called for orders Old Brass
Plate told us he had enough to go on with.
This was awkward, as we had 10 at home in
a tin trunk in the fowl-house. Mother
said they must be given their freedom, as
her condition from the start was that we
should take them straight to the doctor and
not expect her to provide any food. The “01/
man” never had cared much for this way dS
making money, and nearly drove us to opei
mutiny by lifting the lid and turning the
trunk on its side. You should have seen the
scatter of assets! Next day the doctor w*
clamoring for cats, and our hated bushiest
rivals, the kids next door, unleashed a hid
den reserve of cats and swamped the market
* * * *
“0.K.” pats a new baby on the head: —
In some unimposing buildings at Maribyrnong
(Melb.), on the bank of the Saltwater River, one
may get interesting object-lessons in Australian,
industries and the development of our natural
resources. These are the fresh young factories of
the Permasite Manufacturing Co., started by
Andrew Stenhouse and G. T. Bell in connection
with a plaster factory in S. Aus. The enterprise
is stamped “Australia" on every link—just the same
as W. R. D. Innes, the managing director. It
manufactures plaster equal to the best that ever was
imported. And whilst working the various deposits
from which Permasite Flooring is made, it also
turns out a brand of Australian Epsom Salts that
finds a ready sale in London on its medicinal merits,
though it is “queered” on the Australian market by
an English brand which is dumped here at a
shockingly low price. But a visitor at Maribyrnong
is chiefly interested in the pottery ware. This
work began only a year ago, and thus far the output
has been limited to jugs and pots for domestic use
and white insulators. These early products promise
a great future. The material is indeed so good
that it becomes properly glazed with one burning
in the furnace; and the Vie. Government’s testimony
to the quality of the insulators was an order for
50,000 of them. A connoisseur of costly pottery
might complain that it is a sin to convert such
material into lavatory-fittings and other common-
place tilings; but it will be time enough to create
“famous Permasite art china” when the general-
utility business is a bit older.
* * • *
“S.S.”: A tittering crowd attracted me
into a lane running across Chapel-street,
Praliran, the other day. The crowd was
composed of jubilant men, women and chil-
dren following a man who was taking a bed
to a local second-hand dealer’s. Apparently
finding himself unable to spring the rusted
joints, he had harnessed a bottle-o’s pony
to the bed, and was hauling it through the
street on its own casters. Two small chil-
dren rode in the chariot, sitting soberly on
the tick.
* * * *
What was described as “a remarkable
milk case” was investigated at Preston
(Vic.) the other day. A dairyman was up
for selling adulterated juice. The health
inspector bad dived into defendant’s cans
and was flabbergasted to find that one of
them contained water pure and unspotted.
“What have you got it here for?” he gasped.
“Oh, that’s to balance the cart,” answered
the wholesale retailer. The unblushing
balancer was fined in all only £6. Appar-
ently that is what made the case “remark-
able.”
» • » •
Two old Sydney law firms have amalga-
mated —Norton, Smith and Co., founded
nearly a century ago, and Vero Read and
Bell, established in the first ’7o’s. Mr. Read
is a grandson of the late Baronet Reid, who
was Governor of Darlinghurst Gaol for
many years. The Norton Smith firm has a
solid family and commercial business, and
Read has the work of Anthony Horderns’,
one of the biggest of Australian clients.
# * * *
“Union Jacker”: I don’t want to hurt any-
body’s feelings, but has any gent, here-
about collared any German trade lately?
What reminded me of that grand old battle-
cry was the receipt by my chemist (in
N.S.W.) of a circular from a Yankee whole-
sale druggist in TJ.S.A. advising him that the
submarine merchantman Deutschland bad
just arrived with a shipment of scarce Hun
drugs, which were “available in limited
quantities at enhanced prices.” German
drues? No, no! American drugs, of course
NO DISCOVERABLE SCARCITY AT YAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The candidate at Yam began
liis long and flat oration.
He told them of his wondrous plan
To save his bleeding nation.
He said he’d give his country dear
The fruits of all his labor.
An orange landed in his ear
And spattered on his neighbor.
“Elect me, brothers, and I ’ope
With all your ills to grapple.”
They struck him with a cantelope,
And bruised him with an apple.
He yelled, though shaky on his legs:
“I’ll save you as I useter!”
They threw another dozen eggs
And smote him with a rooster.
He said: “Men, what we want is wise
But moderate Protection.”
They east a brace of musty pies,
Of spuds a choice selection.
From hair and clothes still shaking out
Provisionary portage,
He cried in grief: “Here, what about
The Empire’s tucker shortage?”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


m.
yi
I i
r t
m
f/S-r/y
MAID A
tur~ r
I
1
r i'
BRITISH
THOMSON
HOUSTON C<? L T .°
RUGBY
ENGLAND
MAZDA
TALKS
Well! here lam again, fit and happy and ready
to brighten anything from a Town Hall to
Dining Room lam the product of modern .
science, and, bai Jove ! I think they've done me weil
1 flatter myself 1 outshine my rivals.
My headquarters in Sydney are at “ Mazda House/
Liverpool Street; in Melbourne, at corner of Queen
and Little Collins Streets; in all other States 1 am
represented.
You Ye sure to want me. I’m heavily booked, but
I’m never too busy to attend to your requirements.
My business is to reduce your light bill.
Incidentally, I might mention I’ve been “put up’’
at all the decent Clubs, Hotels and Public Buildings in
town, and once I’m put up I’m never taken down. In fact,
I’m a fixture. I can be indirect, semi-indirect, or direct,
just as the mood strikes you. For all three you 11 find me
equally reliable and steady. As I’ve said before, 1 come
from Rugby, England, doncher know, and they wouldn’t let
me come away from home till I had satisfied them 1 was
quite O.K. What ?
L I"/,, 4l v?
t «V- N
*&*•!
V...V
,\'W
r<
I
<ZK
m
v" Wm*
\ *
\y^
JMITH6
JUUUJ
Australian- General Electric^
( Wentworth Ay Sydney, G? op Queen & Little Collins St Melbourne,
Ohomsorv JJiouston, O? jCLtd.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and IVellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver
and Oliver. MacQuarie Street. Hobart.
• RUGBY •
ENGLAND
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE (O.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.). T.td.. Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone. 100 Currie Street.


IBS
2
0
8
.
Si
m
■I-
MM
A. Saunders’ 8- Day Cabinet Caock, inlaid
Mahogany Case, strikes hours on Cathedral gong, and halves
on bell. £2.
noMi/MHn
BeaMfsit'
12
10
'/1
m
j
mmm IPI
W
A. Saunders’ 400-Day Clock, polished
Brass Case and revolving pendulum, bevelled glass,
enamel dial, lacquered brass movement. To be
wound only once a year. £5.
HANDSOME CLOCKS
Guaranteed
Accurate and Reliable.
A. Saunders’ 8-Day Presentation Bronze Clock,
special adjusted movement, enamel dial, visible escapement ; :
and half-hours on Cathedral-tone gong;. Height, 22 inches;
inches. Real Bronze finish. £7/7/-
fittrd with
■trikes hours
width, 19-j
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,
805-15 George Street, Sydney
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
A. Saunders’ Chiming Clock, chimes full Westminster chime
every quarter-hour; 8-Day Movement; in Solid Walnut. Case.
£5/15/-
HI
JO
2
9
<3
iei
A. Saunders’ 8-Day Cabinet Clock, polished, inlaid
Mahogany Case; strikes hours on Cathedral gong, half-hours
on bell. 30/-
I'lllifl iwpain
Germs cause Sore and Husky Throats.
EVANS’ Pastilles .
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
EVANS, SONS, LESCHER <S WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
rtORROCKSESHORRaCKSESHORROCKSES^HORROCKSES’
HQRROCKSES’HORROCKSESj
V
C 4
I>9
SHORT NAP
WELL TWISTED YARN
THERE ARE HEAVIEK, FLUFFIER AND CHEAPER
(72/?9?&7SISZ>£ : /
m
BUT NONE WILL GIVE SUCH
lasting SATISFACTION
SEE
“HORROCKSES”’
ON
SELVEDGE
[HORROCKSES* HORROCKSESI
!HORROCKSES’HORROCKSES , HQRROCKSES , HORRggKSES > i
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Meriue
England, Bd. [low to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dit.
Lamartine’s' Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana; 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1‘- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle'of the Uni-
verse, 8(1., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send, for list). Joys op Life. 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free, Fowler’s Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Hook op Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price I/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. San now’s Book of
Strength. 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Pod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Sd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Head Faces, 1/6. How to -Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins.
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
1
I
9
M
*
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to- innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very-
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense .with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just- arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this srreat work. It will he posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
i©- BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*?
Proi'. Fowler's Homan Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian .Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
gipsy fortunf; TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering. Brazing, GAS-FrrnNGretc.,
1/3 post. How to Play, Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave., 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing,. 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 'l/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter. 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Disc«i;, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-To-Date,
1/3 jilted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, -1/3 nosted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDodgall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan nan's Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6. posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post._ Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, -1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Pomnare my prices with others and save
vour cash. 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
HE (JOT FROM THIS AI)VT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY OltpElt, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make L p, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Thicks with Gauds, I/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Du.
Milford's Midwife's' Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New. Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How t to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors. 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound. 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOBIT OF
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 0 „ „ £5
£8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 10 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 O 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exem
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. tuth March, 1917
Don’t Lose Your Temper
with a Razor tjiat loses its edge. Buy a Razor that
keeps its edge, and keep your temper.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is one of the very few makes that a shaver can rely
on. The marvellous finish and tempering of the blade
has made it a friend indeed to thousands.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/C.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
-r
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “Plum” Razor
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
n'fJ.Collis Bro(jnp's
CMorofr*
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the .Cough of BRONCHITIS anil
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, 3/-, of-.
Made in England.
Two “Pocket Companions
JUST WHAT A MAN REQUIRES.
1 hese and many other items for Men are illustrated
in STEWART DAWSON’S LATEST CATALOGUE.
C 043 Bank-Note
Holders:
Price—
Morocco Grain, 4/6.
Ileal Morocco, 6/C.
07329—With Silver
Covers, 35/-
“Havone” Cigarette -.Uim' keeps a man’s Cigarettes clean anti
straight, each in a separate compartment, adding much to the grace
ot' offering a friend a Smoke: Price in Pest Quality Silver Plate,
21 /-. Solid Silver, Plain Design, ,52/0. Ditto, Line Engraved,
00/-
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY.
iM
h
uuujin
W.
m,
k*
•> Mi;
l!K
Ms
Y>
I -
s*ff
s//
Sii* .?
Sv
\
<-!3f
? *viss? ).bt
Es£A>
ysant-msg.
t'S
♦ *BSt|
few P
COMPLAINTS about high costs and War Taxation
foot no bills. The one economical factor left in
motoring to-day is Avon endurance. Get the “ bonus
of miles” it deducts from your tyre costs. Get Avons
twixt rim and road and learn the full meaning of
“ more comfort for more miles, less trouble and less
expense.” In short, apply the motorist’s War-Law:
If you must motor, do it on British
1
JT I
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HAMMOND & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney;
H. C. PANNIFEX, Melboi r,ie; GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO„ Adelaide;
THE QUEENSLAND MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
24#
( ms.
m
¥
■
ABBEY
SHOES
For gentlemen who appreciate
length of service, as well'as smart
and distinctive appearance,
ABBEY SHOES provide at happy
combination.
They are made in half- and foil-
sizes, and in narrow, medium and
wide fittings. You are therefore
assured a perfect fit when you
wear Abbey Shoes. ' f
We illustrate a Choice Patent
Oxford Bah, with dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 42/-
In Highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf
PRICE 42/-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
txjc/ima
CURES ECZEMA.
Few diseases are more irritating than Eczema,
which unfortunately is only too prevalent throughout
Australia. Many remedies have been advertised,
some of which gave relief for a period. Exzerma,
which is an Australian discovery, has permanently
cured many ’obstinate cases. It is composed of
Australian herbs, and is applied externally. Write
S. Fielder, Randwiek for particulars. [2
< CO
I Chemists & Druggists, or
FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5k 2/6


[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydnev, accept the responsi-
bility.]
HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 621 S and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
a
O
w
WHEN the full story of the excellence of our Motor
Ambulances comes to be written, it will be found that
the ( halliner Patent Detachable Rims and Tyres have
contributed—not a little—to their perfect organisation.
ADOPTED BY THE ALLIED FORCES—you could not have a
better testimony to their value. Fit them to your car and save
time and annoyance.
CHALLINERS ---
THE SHREWSBURY S.T. and
CHALLINER TYRE CO., LTD.,
Ardwick, Manchester & London.
Detachable Rims
Represented by T. A. MEIKLE, Australasian Agents, 556 George Street, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
This is the White Australia policy of
Fairbairn, one of. the Hughes party’s Vic-
torian Senate candidates:—
That was a question relating to international
politics,. The problem was an extremely difficult and
delicate one, but he had no hesitation in
saying that he was in favor of kc'crmr
Australia “white” if it could be done. We depended
on the power of Britain to defend us, and we el,cnld
not forget the empty spaces in the North, which it
would be very hard to settle with white men.
It is all very well for the supporters of the
“Nationalist” candidates in Westralia, for
instance, to say that their men are good
White Australians. The trouble is that,
when they give a vote for Buzacott or De
Largie, they give a vote also for Fairbairn.
NICE FOR GRANDPA.
LITTLE WILHIEM : “ Gran'vader , gome and
blag soldiers mit us and ve vill pretend
you vos an old Belgian.”
Millen thinks that the Phewsion and its
policy should be known as the Dinkum; the
other as the Bunkum. In view of tlfe odor
that surrounds the Watson and Beady busi-
ness, The Bulletin thinks Stinkum a very
proper title indeed.
Once or twice in a generation, under the
influence of some great temptation or of
some malignant but powerful personality,
men, taking courage from their numbers, act
in concert and go over to the ,enemy in a
body. Such combinations are generally im-
moral. rarely expedient and always subver-
sive of tin 1 principles of responsible govern-
ment.
I William Morris Huuhes, Osborne Park, Gore
Hill, X.S.W. ; now sharing an underground room
with the Liberal party in Pitt-street, Sydney.]
Archbishop Wright has issued the follow-
ing appeal in connection with the general
election:—-
We ought not to vote in this election merely
according to the traditions of past elections or
because some party organisation cracks the whip.
We must assert conscientiously our independent judg-
ment, or we may easily be false to our soul. It is
the men who have not yet found their soul who are
the danger of a community. They can be readily
exploited by the first clever schemer.
The Archbishop said some very flattering
things about Hughes not a month ago. Evi-
dently he has found him out since then.
There’s a mort of cheap-jack politicians
on the stump winning the war with their
mouths, but consider the case of the three
X. S. Wales Labor candidates for the Sen-
ate. Peter Bowling has five boys at the
Front. Arthur Itae has three and Dave
Watson has two. Yet Pliews has the gall to
charge disloyalty against these men and
declare that the Labor party’s intention is
to deny reinforcements to the boys in the
trenches!
The Phewsion ad. in Victoria begs the
electors to “vote for the National candi-
dates and save the country from sabotage.”
But The Bulletin doesn’t be-
lieve the outlook is as bad as
that. Certainly, Hughes has at
times said some wild things to his
West Sydney wharfies, and Joe
Thomas was very bitter when he
was boycotted by the mine-own-
ers after the big Broken Hill
strike; but this paper doesn’t
believe that either of them will
really be dangerous even if they
are defeated.
The Adelaide Uni. Senate has
approved a resolution of the
Council that every student shall
make a solemn declaration of
British allegiance “unless ex-
empted by the Council.’’ That’s
the way to keep the outside of the
platter clean. The Freetraders
of Australia have always been the
Jingoes. They shouted “Rule
Britannia 1” while they waved
o rders for German mer-
chandise. And there never was a
crowd that was so sure of its own
loyalty and had such grave doubts
concerning other people’s as the
big Australian mine-owners who
chased German metal-buyers and
offered them contracts. To-day
we are humbugging ourselves just
as thoroughly, and making shouts
and hoorays and solemn declara-
tions of allegiance take the place
of practical service.
Money must be got and still more money.
We are in this war, and will stay there to
the end ; nobody questions that, though the
Empire’s most dangerous enemies in Aus-
tralia are wickedly trying to divide the
country on the question. For the present,
there is no regular loan on the market to
which the public can subscribe. But the
Treasury is issuing war certificates, and,
through these, persons who want to help
win this war may give a hand any day of
the week. The idea is to pay up a present
sum and get it returned with compound in-
terest at the rate of per cent, per annum
in three years from date of purchase. If a
citizen has 17s. 6d. he can take it into any
bank in Australia or any State savings bank
or any post-office that does savings-bank
business, and in three years from that day
Australia will pay him £l. Or £4 7s. Gd.
will earn him £5, or £8 15s. will grow to £lO.
If he should really need the money before
the three years are up the certificates can
either be sold or the Treasury will refund the
money paid plus 3 per cent. There are other
advantages—-including the very great one
that every pound subscribed brings the war
nearer its end and helps to land old Billjim
back in Australia.
And now our Freetraders will be able to
ask : “Why can’t the Yanks do our fighting
for us?” '
As it took William Morris Hughes four
months to disclose the results of the voting
of Billjim Somewhere on the Conscription
Referendum, is there any guarantee that
Billjim Somewhere’s vote at the Federal
election won’t be refhughesed publication
until it suits the political censor?
[Arthur 11. Adams, Cremorne, Sydney.]
Was there ever a more dishonest election
campaign than that in which the Pliewsion
is engaged? This is a recent instance. The
farmers, in Sydney for the Show, were hit
with this in the Telegraph the other morn-
ing :
WHEAT PAYMENTS.
Another Shilling Promised.
In order to assist the farmers in getting in their
new season’s seed, and also to prevent speculation
in wheat certificates, the Prime Minister yesterday
promised a deputation that another Is. a bushel
would be paid to farmers on that day fortnight.
The plain fact—made plain even by Hughes
—is that, out of that shilling, the full
charges for handling and shipping the whole
crop are to be deducted ; so that, instead of
the farmer getting another shilling within a
fortnight, he will receive old. at most. How-
ever. the farmer will find the trick out for
himself before May 3. Yet what else could
lie or anyone else expect? The Pliewsion
was begotten in corruption: its parents
haggled over the price of the union. It was
born into the stench of the Watson and
Ready scandals. It is suckled on malignant
slanders and deceit. And it is this party,
thus begotten, thus born, thus cradled, which
is appealing for the “respectable” vote of
Australia; the vote of decent men and
women; the vote of the unselfish patriot!
The Freetrade Argus jjnd the S. M.
Herald and Register and a few others are
telling the country that its only business at
present is to win the war. Very well, then,
let the Argus and the S. M. Herald show
that they honestly mean it by refusing all
advts. which have no connection with win-
ning the war. That is the simple way of
proving that they are nqt humbugs and
hypocrites, trying to sneak in a Freetrade
Government under the sinful pretext of win-
ning the war.
KILLING ’EM WITH HIS MOUTH.
KID: “ Hear the old bloke over there winnin'
the tear!”
For electioneering purposes the Pliewsion
party is making a great song of the “splen-
did deal in wool” which Mr. Hughes made
on behalf of the squatters of Australia. That
makes it plainer. Part of the magnificently
patriotic and truly Imperial party’s scheme
for winning the war is to sell the Allies wool
and things at such superb prices that the
people who pocket the cheques are expected
to be full of gratitude. In the days to
come, when John Bull asks Mr. Hughes
“And what did you do to help win the great
war?” Mr. Hughes. taking out the
“National” party’s election literature, will
say: '‘Oh, don’t you remember? I sold you
lots of wool at such a price that my election
committee subsequently called it a splendid
deal on behalf of the squatters.” Hughes
really ought to sack that “campaign commit-
tee” of his.
“F.C.”: This talk of increasing our effici-
ency, specialising in manufactures, technical
education of artisans, etc., has grown weari-
some. Why will not the babblers do the job
that lies in front of them? Here is one con-
crete fact worth more than hours of plat-
form talk. Melbourne Working Men’s Col-
lege has had to turn away 150 students in
engineering this year for lack of accommoda-
tion. In the last eight years it has had to
turn away 1000 students for the same
shameful reason. For the want of a few
thousands the loss to the State probably
runs into millions.
Evj?n war has its comforts. Wilson won’t
have to cable Wilhelm the usual birthday
greetings next year.
DAD KNEW WHAT HIS WAS.
MUM: “Why don't you 'ave a porter, Dad?”
DAD: "Porter be damned — I'm going ter get
a long beer.”
From George I). Mendell, on board the
Sonoma: —•
M6t a man on the boat who has sold a million
dollars’ worth of softgoods to York-street and
Flinders-lane. D’you know what this man had done
in return? Bought underclothing in Sydney for
himself and his two brothers. “Don’t you,” lie
said, “believe the story that American-made stuff
is better. ’Tisn’t. It’s cheaper. That’s all. But,
say, why don’t you make more of it ? You’ve got
the best raw material and good workmen. Perhaps,
yes!” he said when I chipped in that we might make
more if he sold less. “But that ain’t my fault, is
it?” And it isn’t—it is our own; just as it was
our own fault that Germany had our metal trade
before the war. But what are we going to do about
a high tariff at next general election? Vote for
Freetraders, as usual, I suppose, and expect them to
give it to us.
At one of his meetings Hughes was asked
why, if it was so essential that Australia
should be represented at the Imperial Confer-
ence, Andrew Fisher had not been appointed.
The reply was that the invitation had been
addressed to the Prime Minister. • That
makes it pretty awkward for John Forrest
and Irvine. They were going - , weren’t they?
[B. J. Harrison Owen, 75 Glenhuntlv Road,
Elwood, Vic.]
The Labor machinery needs overhauling.
Take a sample case. A newcomer named
Howey put up as a candidate for selection
as M.L.A. against Johnnie Lemmon, and
secured the nomination of the Newport
branch. Yet at the selection ballot a week
or so ago Howey polled only nine votes
against Lemmon’s 83. There is something
obviously wrong when a man who, when it
comes to a poll, can score only nine votes,
wins the nomination from, a man who can
scorq 83.
One of the Phews’s methods of winning the
war is to get in the way of men who are
going there. Some months ago F. J. White-
head, a Melbourne journalist, enlisted for
active service. He was ready to go into
camp, but the Federal Government wanted
somebody to boost the War Loan, so he was
kept at a desk in the Treasury. That work
was completed some weeks ago, but White-
head is not yet in camp. He is now among
the Government’s bodyguard of “publicity”
agents,"‘helping to win the war by keeping
the motley Hughes crowd in their jobs.
THE NEW OUTLAWRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Berlin reports state that the t zar has escaped.”
Come fill up my cup, come fill up my can !
’Tis fine winter sport to be hunting a man!
From Petrograd north to the white Polar sea
There are fine spots for hiding and long tracks to
flee.
All Russia is chasing with nightcaps of red
A Czar with a heavy gold crown on his head
i Who leapt the back fence when his guard was in bed.
Now Bonnie Prince Charlie, whom Flora MaeD.
Assisted so kindly to cross the broad sea,
Must look to the laurels romantic lie won
When h'e dodged the King’s trooper abroad with a
gun;
\nd the other Charles, sitting aloft in Ins tree,
'the smallest of little potatoes may be
Compared with Nick Romanoff outski and free.
Oh, Russia is large and its spaces are wide;
And a mob of grand-dukes with a full swag of pride
Might find a. big forest and, happy and rude,
Return to the methods of bold Robin Hood.
There anything feeling its blood is too blue
To mix' with democracy, healthy and new,
Might run and take shelter and share the Czar’s stew.
With game for the poaching and fowl-roosts to rob,
The Kaiser himself might be found on the job.
When Berlin gets too hot and the Socialists' roar
For sausage-equality sounds at the door.
Yes, all things dynastic might well muster there
Where the views are. delightful and also the air,
And only ambitions are out of repair.
And if, in the season when snow changed to muff,
An ex-potentate yearned for a bucket of blood,
lie could slaughter a prince for his blanket and howl
Or a share of the last lot of turnips he stole;
Or an army of one, on the warpath alone,
Could smash a king’s head with a picket or stone
And jump up in triumph and claim his whole throne.
Come fill up my cup, come fill up my can!
’Tis the morning of sense and the triumph of man !
Tlie large boots of Freedom tread straight to their
goal,
And the serf, looking upward, is finding his soul.
The avenger of blood, with his meat-axe held high,
lias a jest on his lip and a laugh in his eye;
lie . could catch his fine prey, but perhaps he won’t
try.
N.S.W,
MARY McCOMMON WEALTH.
THE TEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes went on to say that the electors
were to judge men’s fitness for governing in a
country by their deeds.” —Daily press.
Yes, let us judge them by their deeds,
The test may fitly stand.
What works to match their country’s needs
Are product of their hand?
Their hand ? Nay, there the test goes wrong—
Its application's vain.
Ask of the hero deeds, and strong,
Accomplished by the brain.
Wrong still? Well, how apply this test?
What deeds from these have sprung?
Observe which party ways the best
Its long, untiring tongue!
N.S.W.
MARY.


AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
for Australian Women
(\ 'T/\B
CALLING MHCE
EfChnstie
Absorbing Novels by
the best Australian
Writers.
ns i
RALPH STOOL j
HuC-W*.
1|- each. ALL ONE PRICE. 1/1 posted.
“THE CALLING VOICE.” By E. F. CHRISTIE.
One of the most charming and interesting novels of the. Bush yet published.
There is a great fascination in Australian Bush life. and. in a story full of
incident and humor, the author shows how great that fascination is.
“THE PYJAMA MAN.” By RALPH STOCK.
A capital romance that originates in the surf, adjourns for a spell to the
glamor of London theatrical life, and eventually terminates in unconventional
circumstances on a Monaro station.
“LOVES OF LANCELOT.” By EDWARD DYSON.
A delightful series of episodes in tin' life of a young man in search of a wife.
Sparkling with humor.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR-LAUNCH.” By ARTHUR 11. ADAMS.
The amusing adventures of a man who sought adventure on Sydney Harbor
and who is overwhelmed with all manner of strange situations.
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE.” By M. FORREST.
A fascinating story of the extraordinary adventures that befel an English
immigrant girl. Desperate circumstances drive her headlong into most uncon-
ventional situations.
“ROCKY SECTION.” By SYDNEY PARTRIGE.
A delightful romance of the Australian Outback.
“A MAN OF SYMPATHY.” By HARRY TIGIIE.
An unusual type of love story, full of interesting episodes.
Write for a Complete Catalogue
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
■A3N0AS —^
eSjO30 9Zt
imiiHiiuuimiMuiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiHimiiiiiuiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmimmimiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiMiiiiiimtiiiiiiiiiii
The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
.iMimmiiiii
Electric Meters
and Instruments
m
Meters and Instruments of all types are designed,
manufactured, and tested at Trafford Park,
Manchester, by the British Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
There are sufficient types for you to select one
exactly suited to your requirements whether for
switchboard or portable use.
-
They are sensitive without being delicate and
perfectly dead beat.
They embody all the latest improvements in their
design and construction. They are given a high
grade finish and present a pleasing appearance.
m
They combine ideal simplicity with permanent
accuracy, unimpaired by temperature changes,
throughout a long life.
Portable types are compact and light, in neatly
finished dust-proof cases.
m
The accuracy of Westinghouse meters is a safe-
guard against loss of revenue and their use_ reduces
inspection and maintenance costs to a minimum.
The highest grade of measuring instruments is
the only grade for your purpose.
SEND
YOUR ENQUIRIES TO NEAREST OFFICE.
fflfgtinohougf
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd., * Elder, Smith & Co.. Ltd.,
77, King Street, Sydney. 27-31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Shenton & Co., Ltd., Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Williams Street, Perth. 84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents in New Zealand : Turnbull and Jones, Ltd.,
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, and Dunedin.
in m m mm m i m
Works Trafford Park. Manchester. England.
mm
The mart of superior
.motor car service
/
i
SNs
rr»
m
7he mart: ofsuperton
[motor car terete#
What a Hupmobile Demonstration Will Do
WE CAN demonstrate to you that a car of the greatest comfort —a
really luxurious car —need not necessarily be costly to buy nor
to maintain.
It would be difficult for you to imagine a car that rides more easily than
the Hupmobile, or one that provides more completely for the comfort of
the passengers.
You sit on cushions ten inches thick, made of genuine leather over
curled hair and the most resilient cushion springs we can buy.
The long wheelbase, the semi-elliptic springs—long and almost flat —the
oversize tyres confer a riding smoothness that is not excelled.
These features are doubly valued when you know they are to be had at a
moderate price—quality considered—and at a maintenance cost remark-
ably low.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in. x 55in.).
Transmission: Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Rear Axle floating type, spiral bevel gear. Cam shaft and crank shaft bearings bronze shell, babbitt
lined. Fong wheel base (119in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134in. on 7-seater). Tyres 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 3Sin. x 4£in. on 7-seater. Electric
starting and lighting; ventilating, rain vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting side curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery: speedometer; ammeter; robe rail, foot
rail and carpet in tonneau; non-skid tyres on rear; five demountable rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Magneto ignition, wire wdieels, special colors, khaki
hood and seat covers at small additional cost over list price of car.
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


The U.S.A. fittingly celebrated Easter by
deciding to help redeem humanity from its
arch persecutors. A wise decision strongly
commended by that wise spirit King George
IY. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
WHY THE WAR
WILL END THIS YEAR
See 17th March number of
STEAD’S REVIEW
Price Gd.
All newsagents, or by post from
Clyde House, Melbourne.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOCRLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Racing Clubs are advised that the Turnbull
and Jones, Ltd., of New Zealand, Totali-
sator can now be seen at W. G. Watson
and Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Turnbull and Jones, Ltd., have supplied
Machines to all the principal clubs in New
Zealand, and their experience extends over
a period of 20 years. Mr. Seager, their
representative, will be pleased to make
appointments and supply full information.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The whole tribe of punters, tipsters, stu-
dents of racing form and other assorted lunatics fell
into the soup wih a loud splash when the Autumn
meeting of the A.J.O. opened at Randwick on Satur-
day. After a day for introspection and prayer they
went back and did the same thing again on Monday.
On the first two days of this meeting Ike had one
of the biggest kills on record. For the public it
was a period of unadulterated calamity. The
attendances were enormous and the betting on a
corresponding scale. This was the last important
A.J.C. meeting at which Ike will have the
field to himself. The tote will be there in Sep-
tember. But the books were not worrying about
that this week, and as the arrangement stands now
the writer knows of no particular reason why they
should bother much about what is going to come.
In the 12 races on Saturday and Monday favorites
won three. In two of these cases accounted for by
one horse (Thrice) the prices—5 to 4 and 2 to 1
“on”—limited the betting very considerably. In
the other the winner at 3 to 1 in a field of 20 cost
MacShortodds nothing. For the remaining nine
races ducats were wheeled into Israel in barrowloads
—and left there.
* ' * * *
Though Wedding Day got away with the
bacon all the honors of the Doncaster were with
l’olycrates. lie hopped off with his 9st. 101 b. and
proceeded on the journey as if it ended at five fur-
longs. At half a mile Three pushed his nose in
front, but the imported horse quickly reached out
for the lead again, and it is possible that the effort
at that stage just robbed him of the little bit that
was missing at the finish. Three ran with the leader
to the turn, Whitefield, Woorak and King’s Bounty
close up. Here Wedding Day commenced to move
forward, and at the distance was ready to argue
the point. There were only the two of them in it
by then, and the little mare, sticking to the pace-
maker like a burr, just snuffed him out in the last
half-dozen strides, Whitefield, three lengths away,
third. Cetigne had a bad passage and only shook
himself free below the Leger. He came away with
a tremendous run, but was too far off to get into
the final. With anything like a decent chance he
must have had something to say about the finish,
but whether he could have beaten the winner under
any circumstances is doubtful. King’s Bounty
finished much below his reputation. Whitefield had
every chance, but at no time looked like a winner.
Spurn, chopped out at the start, was tangled up
in the ruck all the way. It was a slashing good
race, the time, lmin. 39sec., registered against a
high wind, showing what scat of performance the
winner and Polycrates were guilty of.
IVedding Day, for some unknown reason, is one
of those nags which the public persists in ignoring.
She is among the most compact pieces of horseflesh
running in N. S. Wales, and a brilliant sprinter.
Earlier in the year she won three races out of
four starts, two of these being the Villiers and
Challenge Stakes at Randwick. In each of these she
started at a long price. On Saturday she was backed
for very little at 30’s and 25’s to 1, and in the
ante-post betting had been only nibbled at for a
few thousands at 100’s and 50’s. Perhaps £lO,OOO
was all that was taken out of the ring by her win.
Compared with what would have been lifted if
Cetigne, Spurn, 'Whitefield or King’s Bounty had
arrived, this was a mere trifle. Pier last previous
appearance was in the Railway Stakes at Rosehill on
March 24. In this, carrying Bst. 51b., she was beaten
into seventh place behind Spurn, 9st. 21b., and First
Principle, 9st. 31b. There was nothing suggestive of
a Doncaster win about that. Wedding. Dav was bred
at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) by R. C. Allen, and is
by the imported Antonio from Lady Trenton.
Of course, there was much talk about whether it
was wise to run Polycrates at top from the start.
The answer must be that a horse which can run a
mile right out with a welter weight in “39” is a
long way better in front than anywhere else. More-
over, Polycrates is a very free-going horse, and does
better in the lead than under a pull. He ran into the
front in the last Metropolitan Handicap, and was only
just beaten, as he had been in the Epsom. An
unlucky hprse, in a way, but a rare good ’un, the
best middle-distance runner in Australia, so this
page thinks, and by a pretty wide margin at that.
Like some other good horses the public has seen, this
chap is not very enthusiastic about making a start,
but when he goes he is in a fearful hurry to get the
business finished.
The w.f.a. Autumn Stakes, 1A mile, run
on the first day at Randwick, has not as a rule been
a. safe guide to the Sydney Cup, but this year it
was. The Fortune Hunter won well, and in the
Cup the form of both this race and the Australian
Cup were exactly repeated. But the Hunter’s recent
running at Rosehill behind Coat o’ Mail in one race
and Chantemerle in another weighed more with the
punter than the Autumn Stakes win, and as Court
Jester had fared . badly on the trip and yet finished
well up, and as Green Cap was doing best at the
finish, it was on these two the public handed in its
wads. The Jester was determinedly backed down to
3’s —the stable was very confident —and Green Cap
to 4’s. The Fortune Hunter was at B’s and 9’s,
Harriet Graham at 15’s. When the crowd saw the
winner of the Autumn Stakes sailing in an easy
winner, it mostly cursed itself for being thick in
the head. Harriet and the Jester finished in that
order. Of the two, Harriet’s performance was much
the better, for she got more than one bump back on
the journey. Green Cap, though well up at a mile,
did no good afterwards. Lingle may win over a dis-
tance some time, but this race didn’t make him
look like it. The Fortune Hunter was certainly
never so well before. He cost the late J. C.
Williamson 900 guineas as a yearling, and when
Jimmy’s horses were sold was bought by J. A. Mayo
for 500. There is a City Tatt.’s Cup and an
A.J.C. Summer Cup to his credit since then. A
cheap horse. But he beat nothing very brilliant.
What a racehorse of the first-class can do
over hurdles among mokes of the next division was
explained by Jack Ilice > at Randwick to a crowded
congregation on Saturday. Jack had the übiquitous
Moon and several lumps of Broken Hill aboard —13st.
91b. in all. The next animal had list. 91b., and
others were getting three and four stone. Not
unnaturally the public reckoned John was anchored.
But he wasn't—and won. Incidentally, Moon rode a
particularly intelligent race. Half a mile from the
line he ran Jack Rice up and carried Lord Cecil and
Quirindi to the last couple of fences at top pace;
racing that way they, being new at the game, jumped
a lot of the steam out of themselves. Had they
been left to move more leisurely, 13st. 91b. would
have been heavier for the champion to carry along
the straight, for both Cecil and Quirindi are unusu-
ally slick on the flat.
In the Y.R.C. St. Leger followers of the
Brown colors planked their money on Thana, and
saw her stable-mate Colbert win. At Randwick the
two were liberated again in the .Leger Stakes, for
which Colbert was reckoned a certainty by his con-
nections. But the unexpected happened some more.
The fill}' cleared out and won from end to end, Colbert
third. All of which shows that the nags know best
sometimes.
* * * * *
The Victorian two-year-old Thrice (The
Welkin—Teppo), winner of the Y.R.C. Produce Stakes
and the Ascot Yale Stakes, stood out on his own among
the rising generation that was racing at Randwick.
On the first day he won over seven furlongs, beating
a good field pointless, though it may be good to
remember that two N. S. Wales young Tins which did
well in the Spring—Pah King and Baltic Sea—"'"re
considerably off-color. Putting up a penalty of 101 b.,
this bringing his weight to 9st. Gib., Thrice won the
Champagne Stakes on Monday. But he only just got
there, for Prince Viridis came away with a brilliant
run inside the distance, and had bad luck to miss.
On the first day this colt got messed up at the start,
and was left 100 yards behind. Rimmon, another
Victorian, was backed down to evens in the Nursery
Handicap, and ran somewhere near .last.
* * * *
There is money in a topnoteli two-year-old
all right, though whether this is of any advantage to
the Australian horse is another matter. Up till the
beginning of the week Wolaroi’s earnings as a young-
ster headed the record for horses at that age with
e 7215. Thrice by his double at Randwick has now
run past this with about £B4OO. One point about
this, pair and their appropriation of cash is that
both are raced by their breeders. Wolaroi went to
the sale ring, but did not realise a small reserve.
Three was not offered as a yearling. After the colt’s
win in the Sires’ Produce Stakes £3OOO was offered
for him, but there was nothing doing.
* # * #
The imported horse didn’t do much at
Randwick on Saturday and Monday. But of the 12
winners 11 were sired by imported stallions. Of the
54 stallions whose progeny were eligible for nomina-
tion in the Sires’ Produce Stakes, all but 13 were
imports. Thrice, the star of the meeting, has
imported blood on both sides.
* * * *
“Mujik”: What absolutely banal names a
lot'of these two-year-olds are struggling with! Of
63 entered in the First Nursery Handicap at Rand-
wick at least' 50 had names which seem to have been
scratched out by the stable cat. E. E. D. Clarke,
owner of Thrice, with his One, Two, Three, and his
Billion, Trillion and all the rest, -is a notorious
offender. Surely he could spare somebody a few
dollars to find more appropriate material for the
christenings. The things that are done to mokes by
Cooltrim and Linacre are frightful, and it looks as
if the same is going to he done on the Bronzinos.
One man with a filly by Knightlight—Manama calls
it Nada Light, which is even more meaningless than
the name of the sire. Yet there was the appropriate
Moonstruck available (Marama, Maori for moon").
Another man with a fillv by Tressady—Harvest Lady
gets a bit both ways by coining “Harvestress,” which
is fatuous. Still there are a few well-named horses in
the bunch. Of these first prize goes to Broken Glass,
a colt by Eye Glass —Explosion mare. Carafon (Lin-
acre—Waiter), Field Nurse (Pistol —School Miss),
Modesto (Tressady—Chaste), Dainty Stitch (Feather-
stitch —Dainty’s Daughter) are not too bad. Appar-
ently the owner of the Earlston —Beryllum filly
reckoned the young lady’s ma suggested an umbrella.
Anyway, he called her Brolly to save time. If some-
one would only christen a Cooltrim nag Frozen
Whiskers we would have all the coolness and decora-
tion in concentrated form and be able to make a fresh
start.
* * * *
“Spreader”: These are the reasons why
imported horses are winning all the races. (1) All
these pommies are dved-in-the-purple thoroughbreds,
whose descendants go back without a flaw to the 50-
odd mares that started the English Stud Book. (2)
Most of our own nags are not eligible for entry in
the E. 5.8., owing to the “colonial tap roots” that
less conservative compilers admitted to the Australian
Stud Book. Take Cutty Sark as an instance. She is
supposed to have landed in N. S. Wales in 1826.
No one to this day knows what her breeding was,
notwithstanding all the research work on the sub-
ject. She is only one, but if she Happened to be
“crook” there’s a stain on hundreds of our very
best, right through from The Barb to Mountain King,
that thev’ll never wi"- ~-t. There is not a shadow
of doubt that breed is telling.
* * * *
Disqualification,of a Sydney pony jockey
calls to mind an incident of bygone years. The
owner of a hurdler conceived the bright idea of enter-
ing him in a sprint event and educating him to aban-
don the go-slow habit. For three weeks before the
race the boy who rode the nag in used an
electric-battery every morning. When the colors
were up the boy left the juice at home,'but the nag
believed it was held in reserve, and as soon as the
barrier rose leaped towards the judge like a kangaroo.
The owner collected a hatful. But the moke
reckoned that it wasn’t altogether dinkum.
* * * *
“Spot” : The money payments to jockeys
are out of all reason. I attended a Maori meeting
a while back at Naimaiki (King Country). The
affair happened on a Sunday, and the principal race
was the Cup (first prize 55., owner of the second
horse to receive Is. 6d. from the stake), one mile.
Amongst our party was an old-time owner who had
a set of colors. These be lent to a young fellow who
was with us. We arrived just as the field was lining
up for the Cup. When brown brother and sister
spotted the colors a cry went up: “Hello! Here
come te shockey” (the others were mounted in shirts
and pants), and one owner, laying violent hands on
his horseman, dragged him from the saddle and flung
the pakeha aboard. While the race had vanished into
the titree all hands adjourned to the refreshment-
rooms (conducted by a Syrian in a wheelbarrow).
When the field emerged te shockey had a long lead
and won easily. Henare, the prad’s owner, shook the
rider’s hand nearly off, and then lifted up his voice
for all to hear: “Come on 1 I pay you—l te sport!”
and leading him over to the Syrian purchased two
peaches—one for each.
S. Aus. Jockey Club Ims had the un-
pleasant experience of finding a Federal election com-
mandeer May 5, the, first day of its Adelaide Cup
meeting. To push the rvhole thing back a week
would be to run very close up against the Adelaide
Racing Club's Birthday Meeting, which follows; so
the S.A.J.C. has resolved to compress its three days
into one week, running the Goodwood Handicap on
Monday, 7th, the Cup on Wednesday, 9th, and finish-
ing the meeting on the next Saturday, 12th. By the
way, the Birthday Cup Meeting also will this year
be run at Morphettville.
John Wren’s Murmur, the Caulfield Cup
winner of 1904, injured himself so badly while loose
in his Bendigo paddock recently that he had to be
shot.
* * * *
“Almo": A long-lived yarn dropped dead
last week when ticket No. 4 drew a tenner and
26 took a fiver in Tatt.’s Sydney Cup sweep.
Hundreds of times I’ve heard the story that all
tickets numbered below 50 are destroyed; and the
habit the small numbers have of keeping out of
sight has helped the yarn-spinner for many years.
I’d like to be there when that sweep-result gets to
the sheds Outback, and they begin a search for the
cove who started the perjury on its way.
The latest thing in strikes happened at
Devonport (Tas.) last week. The Devonport Racing
Club holds a meet on Easter Saturday, and the right
to sell liquor was advertised to be put up for auction.
Devonport has two auctioneers, but in the interests
of Lemonade both refused to sell. The club at last
got an auctioneer from Latrobe, so the danger of a
drought was averted. Now it is being argued
whether an auctioneer who is a wowser, being pro-
tected from competition by his license, can refuse
to sell legal rights and interests, any more than a
publican can refuse to sell a drink during statutory
hours.
* * * *
George Marlow, although he is under-
stood to have retired from the job of staging drama,
still keeps up his connection with the boards. Only
the other day he bought a Pantomime. Anyway,
that is the name he has- given to his filly by
Comedy King—Rounella. And it’s good enough, for
it’s a very poor pantomime that doesn’t have a suc-
cessful run.
* » * *
The high altar of the temple of cricket
now stands in Melbourne National Gallery. This is
the ball, afterwards owned by .T. M. Blackham, used
in the first test match in which Australia defeated
England on level terms. The ball earned £614 for
the war funds before it was finally enshrined. Its
stand, designed by an old cricketer, R. F. Steel,
reaches a stately six feet in height, and is topped
by a carved hand holding the sphere. The structure
displays the beautiful grain of silky oak, the mottle
of blackwood, and the rich depth of Queensland rose-
wood and bean.
Sydney premiership cricket finishes in
the coming week-end. Paddington, Balmain and
Sydney all have a chance of reaching the top. As
scores now stand, Sydney looks like losing its front
place by going down to Glebe. If Balmain can get
a three-point win over ’Varsity (which isn’t un-
likely), then Balmain has a victory. Again, if Syd-
ney and Balmain fail, Paddington (having the bye)
will step into the premiership boots.
* * * *
.“F.E.M.”: A 16-year-old youngster at
Ipswich Grammar School lately threw a cricket ball
110 yards. At 14 he did 106 yards. Anyone beat
that with authentic figures?
* * * *
Reg Mitchell, the 16-year-old boy who
won the 100, 200 and 300 yards junior swimming
championships of Victoria last month, has been a
cripple almost from birth. Four years ago he was a
pathetic little figure in heavy legirons. His father
used to carry him to football matches and other
sporting affairs in which dad was interested. Sea-
bathing was tried as a means of putting strength
into the wasted limbs, ail’d Reg soon developed a
crawl-stroke that takes him across the Maribyrnong
50 yards in 34 seconds and does much to compen-
sate him for his lameness when out of the wet.
Passed out at 26, Trevor Francis, sprint
and middle-distance runner of Bananaland. He gained
the Military Cross at Pozieres, and annexed a couple
of bars in the last push before getting to the end
of the section. Francis was champion of the Gram-
mar School at Ipswich for five years, and holder of
the “all schools and University” records for 400
and 880 yards at the time of his death. He repre-
sented the State at the Australasian championships
in Maoriland, but a very rough passage across threw
him out of gear.
*'* * *
Newington College (Sydney) athletic
championships tried the muscles of a fine youngster
in H. B. Bennett. Starting in seven events, he won
the 220yds. (25 4-ssee.), 440yds. (59sec.) and
120yds. hurdles (17 4-ssec.), tied with R. F. Cripps
in the high jump (6ft. Sin.), and filled second place
in the 100yds., 880yds. and broad jump. Last year’s
school-champion R. F. Cripps took the 100yds.
(10 4-ssec.) and broad jump (21ft. 3in.). Whether
these fine young athletes ever make good in future
State championships rests with sports-masters and
the strength of their restraining hands.
* * * *
The cutting up of £7OO by the Lawn
Tennis Assoc, of Australasia in equal shares between
six Australian States and M.L. caused many cheers.
The shortage of cash to keep the net up was being
badly felt. Even after this distribution the L.T.A.
is still far from being “broke.” There is a credit
balance of £2548, part of which is earmarked for
future Davis Cup matches.
* * * *
“ Jacko”: “Carfax’.’ (B. 20/3/T7) is well
in order when he moves that the gag be put on
some of the drivel which would make all kinds of
sport in these times criminal. This cross-eyed view-
point has, all the same, a kind of semi-official back-
ing. Peacock, the head of the big Bathurst State
farm college, has • just publicly crowed that the
youths at that institution “who used to play tennis,
cricket and football have not played for a long time,
and grass now covers the courts and pitches.” If
they are keeping fit otherwise, well and good. If
they are not, then Peacock’s foolishness is probably
helping to lose some future war.
S. M. Herald accidentally struck a spark
the other day. “Shortly,” it said, “the foolball
season will be commencing.”
A team of Maoriland footballers had a go
with a French fifteen at Paris last week, and Jean
and Francois offered such desperate resistance in the
scrum that the strangers who call champagne “wai-
piro” narrowly escaped disaster. They won only by
40 points to 0. The cable says it was a strenuous
match. It sounds like the report of the match
between the All Blacks and the team from
Ngahuarohatiwiki.
* * * - *
After a spell of 15 months McGoorty
arrived back in the ring at Sydney Stadium oh
Saturday. He had been training for less than a
month. Three months might have done the trick.
As it was, the public saw a very different McGoorty.
He was fat and slow and fought about 50 per cent,
below the form which made him famous. All ot
which was a circumstance that Tommy Uren had no
reason to grumble at, and it did something to even
up the disparity in weight—McGoorty, list. 91b.;
Uren, 10st. 71b. Thomas placed most reliance in
shooting a quick left to the face and hopping awav
from the bigger man’s swing. Those tactics came
off. In the opening round McGoorty stopped one
which started the blood from his mouth and nose;
another in the fourth collision to the throat in-
creased the leak. Thenceforward he was about the
most gory-loooking pug the writer of this treatise
had seen for many days. Uren kept on shoving his
left in with deadly regularity ; but after encounter-
ing a hard wallop on the ear and two or three stiff
rips to the body about half-way through, he was- a
good deal less enterprising than he should have been,
and perhaps not too much in love with his job. Had
McGoorty’s. condition been good enough to permit
him to cut loose, The Bulletin has no doubt at all
that Uren would not have lasted seven rounds. As
it was, he went the journey and pulled out a winner
on points, a decision which could scarcely be chal-
lenged. If McGoorty seriously intends to “come
back” he would be giving himself a fairer deal by
postponing the next visitation until he is in proper
nick.
Cabled from Yankeeland that “Darcy has
taken the first steps to become an American citizen.”
No sooner had this message come through than the
U.S.A. started to prepare for war. The whole world
seems to be in a conspiracy to make this young man
shoulder a gun.
For closing- the Narrabeen (Sydney) Lake
against net-fishing for five years from March 31, ’l7
except during April and May in each year—the Fish-
eries Department deserves a cheer. At one time not
long ago there was no surer place about Sydney to
catch a dinner on a hand-line. But like many fish-
ing-grounds it has latterly been swept almost bare by
the net.
* * » *
“Pick” : Oh, no. a 51b. trout isn’t a cham-
pion, even in N. S. Wales. Five seasons back I saw
one pulled out of the Ifydra River on Monaro
(N.S.W.) that weighed 11 jib., and he wasn’t big
enough to win a Sydney sporting firm’s trophy for
heaviest trout of the season. The fellow that hooked
the prize went jib. better.
There’s more than you know in N. S.
Wales Tourist Guide Books. One example: “Sports-
men will find all the shooting they want along the
banks and in the swamps and lagoons; while the
disciples of Isaac Newton will find constant and
satisfying occupation for rod and line almost any-
where.”
Judging by the jetsam on a South Coast
(N.S.W.) beach after heavy weather, there must be
a fine nannygai ground somewhere between Bermagui
and Tathra, probably about Bunga Head, where the
steamer Mimosa left her bones over 50 years ago. A
few winters ago this beach was strewn with these
splendid scarlet fish, dead and dying. Other fish cast
ashore in the same storm included flathead, red rock-
cod, common and other gurnard., black bream, ling
and a few snapper and groper. Incidentally, the
graves of the only passengers (an elderly couple)
lost from the Mimosa lie on a sandy flat below
Bunga Head. Legend has it that they returned
to their cabin for some money and were drowned
by inrushing seas.
* * * *
“Rung”: In their argument about the
aim in shooting at a moving subject, neither
“Foo-lar” nor “Eryander” (B. 29/3/’l7) take into
consideration the scatter of gunshot. A good gun
fired at a fast pigeon going full speed across the
front of the shooter, would, at 70 yards distance,
miss by Bft. if the shot, travelled in a. lump ; but at
that distance the best of guns will scatter the pellets
to a width of 9ft., which accounts for “Foo-lar’s”
occasional success in direct shooting.
» * » *
“Bill Bade!” : Judged by his remarks on
flying shots (B. 22/3/T7). “Foo-lar” might reason-
ably drop two letters. At a distance of, say, 30 to
40 yards, he can have his direct aim at the laziest
duck ever hatched, and the duck will only suffer in
the tail-feathers. If I wanted the flier to get the shot
amidships I would aim at the beak. That’s how I
get my share of the bag. In the case of a bird
flying away and not rising too fast, a straight shot
makes it merely a race between the lead and the
feathers. According to their estimate of speed and
height, anti-aircraft gunners aim anything up to lfi
times its own length ahead of a plane. Shot or shell
travels fast, but its arrival at the target is not
simultaneous with pulling the trigger, as it would
have to be if you scored bull’s-eyes by shooting point-
blank at a rapidly-moving object.


Some Day You’ll Get
a Thrashing'
m
Some day you’ll be called upon to defend yourself.
Suppose, for instance, some bumptious fellow insulted you, what would be
your position ?
Would you be able to fittingly avenge such an insult, or in trying to do
so would you run the risk of getting a severe thrashing, owing to your
inability to defend yourself—to prove yourself a man ?
Yon never know what the future holds in store for you, so be prepared—-
learn the art of self-defence. Start TO-DAY —not next week, but NOW.
I Teach Boxing by Mail
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My boxing instructions are very thorough—
you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at tlie quick progress you will make under my
personal coaching.
My lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and arc
cramful of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this' adver-
tisement and post it to me, and I will send you by
return mail my interesting. Booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which tells all about my
methods, terms, etc. Please send three penny
stamps for postage.
REC. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
599 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
m
EVERT DAY FILL UPON
SHELL'
BENZINE
2S£hius
m
m
Find the Wonder Places
—the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track —— Go touring on
Sndwi
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue " O ” with Pleasure,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. ff£
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
P ATOM
IMI
VARICOSE VEINS,
WEAK LEGS AND JOINTS.
THE VAROX SUPPORT is an Entirely
New Method of dealing with Varicose
Veins and any Leg Weakness. Instant
Relief is obtained, together with Perfect
Ease and Comfort.
It is a laced
appliance,
whichgives
equality of
pressure at
i everypoint,
and can be
regulated
to the com-
fo r t of
wearer. It
always
keeps in po-
sition, can
b e easily
put on and
taken off.
Will last for years.
Catalogue and Self-Measurement Chart
Posted Free on Application.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
•I r Jl'
:r s i
3
BEFORE.
>
AFTER
FOB
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(fjPILLARINE
Have you noticed the popularity
of the short moustache? The best
way to grow one is to use
CAPILLARINE. Rub it well into
the hair-roots. The quick results
will surprise you. CAPILLARINE
is a true moustache-grower.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG S AITKEN,
864 Ceorgre St.
SYDNEY.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MEN WHO KNOW
RIGXEY SHOES always prefer them to all
others, because they are so satisfactory iu
wear, fit, style and finish.
We illustrate a Patent Calf Oxford Shoe,
with \\ ing Cap and latest perforations. A
very smart, “made-to-order” style.
Also in Tan and Black
Velour Calf.
Postage 9d. extra.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
\£\
BMIMWMBbi
IlSjfe’W,
$mSmM
m
i ? :^-r
\^>^; J
7*/
wS/ißry.
£»♦
SaoSK^
:
, -j
si||
mu
!©>
■ <R
V,
\
.^1
,f 4;^
.: sgisw
i&s»
’*':, TSks
*;S$
■m
• ; '■■•i-J'.j-J \tt: :
'>■* i/&.S
?&*■
r^4i
fc •. •
m
s@i®
BH
S®
ffiMS
mm
mm
mix
.... , J&s^s
\mM 1 « 'Jo^m
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
Price 26 bottle
' jr ° rrv *~ l^
*
,<* (T
\' x
111
If You’d be Satisfied
with your Riding Breeches and Trousers
have them “Lincoln-Stuart” Tailored
to Order.
The materials provided are Suitable and
Serviceable —the Cutting is Correct —the
Making Flawless —the Value is of the
Highest Standard Possible. We quote:
Trousers
12/6
Judhpores 8 Breeches
22/6
r
r.
In our Special Hiding Drills that
will give Seasons of Wear and
Actually Improve in the Wash—and
these prices allow for Tailor-
making to Order.
Patterns of a Big Range of
Stuffs at all Prices awaits your
application. WRITE NOW!
Lincoln.StuartsCo.
Pty. Ltd.,
Flinders St. (opp. Station), Melbourne


Honeymoon Happiness
Enhanced by “BIFF”
Present
Ease
m
Future
Comfort
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
To those who are troubled with sore, tender, ach-
ing, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling feet,
chilblains, bunions, corns or hard skin, olff
will bring quick relief. “BIFF” is a scientific com-
pound which draws out all poisonous matter from
the pores of the skin, leavrng the skin in a per-
fectly healthv condition, to perform its natural
functions. This unique compound will, render
the feet sweet and antiseptic.
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
"Previous to using ‘ BIFF' I could not walk with-
out suffering great agony, before finishing the
second box my friends noticed the difference in
my walking.”—Miss K. L., victoria.
" I have only used two packets, and I think it is the
best cure I have ever had for sore feet. I shall
never be without it.”—Mr. B. 8., N.s.W.
"I have obtained great relief from using ‘BIFF,’
ar.d 1 believe that nothing is claimed for it that
is not justified.”—Mr. P. C. P., N.z.
"I have received great benefit by using ‘BIFF’ for
my feet, and recommend it to all my friends.
Mr. A. H. S., victoria.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
Why Look Old?
You need not use hair dye to conceal prey hair.
Grey hair adds years to anyone’s appear-
ance. The objections to dyeing the hair are
too numerous and too obvious to mention.
Few people are aware that a simple, old-
fashioned recipe, that can be made up at
home, will quickly turn grey hair back to a
natural color without injuring the hair in
any way. One has only to get two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite from the chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
With a small sponge apply the lotion to the
hair for a few nights and the desired change
will have been neatly accomplished. This
simple formula has given great satisfac-
tion for generations to those in possession of
it.— Advt. [3
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES'
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS
BARCOO ROT
CARBUNCLES
POISONED HANDS
BUNIONS
CORNS, PILES
INSECT & SNAKE
BITES, AND ALL
SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
THE: GREAi BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
9
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PIERS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
' All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
i Proof <Sr-Co.. 220 Strand. London.
UMP
jKr The Trusty Triumph is
W 8 mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
Bennett SBarkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
mm
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
'terdleys
Shaving Stick
TheStiekmthe Glass Cass
ui|
lllllll—iw
_j
Have
YOU
Tried
It?
It Represents the Last Word
in scientific soap making. The
free, ointment-like lather makes
the daily shave a mere incident.
It softens the beard and lubricates
the razor, and actually soothes
the skin.
British Soap Made by
8 NEW BOND STREET, LONDON.
m
V
Sst l
fill? It*
lack.
Caxuvo
Cleans 1
R.egula
elf.
British
cure.
w*
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
comes into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
evidence. So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new Bostock styles
for the season, since these are more captivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent leather, made in
that new, short-fronted French shape which
makes every foot look so arched and delightful,
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling finish
to one's new walking suit or gown. And it is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable.
Bostock styles now on view at the leading stores.
Bostock No.
'Q9SS3
mm
mm
I None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the name “Bostock” on the soles.
*&*!*(&
m
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
ALWAYS SHINY and BRIGHT!
That’s so. Your boots will always be shinv and bright if you polish them with
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSING.
It can be had in Paste or Cream, 6(1. and 1/-. Sold Everywhere.
Colors : Black, Brown, Dark Brown, and Mhite.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
London Daily Chronicle gives a fare-
well par. to “an eccentric Australian” who
on January 29 was found by a coroner’s
jury to have died from “cold and exposure”
in' Southwark. II is name was Thomas
Stuart Robertson, and he arrived from Aus-
tralia about 1890, straightway calling on
King Edward —then Prince of Wales—to
warn him against a murder-plot, and getting
sent to an asylum for his trouble. Latterly
he Avas a familiar figure in the city, harm-
less but eccentric —an untidy, distracted
little old man, wearing trousers tucked into
his socks and a clerical hat, round which
was fastened a card bearing his name.
“T.F.”: Captain J. K. Davis, who led the
rescue of Shackleton’s marooned party in
the south, is a man to whom adventure is
the breath of life. Yet he doesn’t look it.
Thin, lanky and pale-complexioned he might
be taken for anything but a hardy mariner.
Only his steel-blue eyes might undeceive you.
lie gets the same fun out of life now as he
did when he ran away to sea at 15. He is
still very young and cannot disguise it by
the little red goatee beard he wears. Ilis
first trip to Australia was made aboard the
boat that brought the plant for the Cool-
gardie water scheme. Davis was in command
of the Aurora, which took Douglas Mawson’s
expedition south, and in all he has had five
trips to the Antarctic. Since the outbreak
of the war he has done transport service,
and had at least one narrow escape from
being torpedoed—that was near Salonica. I
ran against him unexpectedly in Perth a
year ago and lie told me of his transport
job and fell to talking about the war on
land. “Hang it,” he said in his peculiar
slow drawl, his eyes lighting up, “a man
ought to be in that.”
A woman whose life-story started away
back at the beginning of things crossed the
Great Divide the other day from Maoriland.
This was a Mrs. King, born in the Speck in
1816. At 24 she had crossed to the Bay of
Islands, sighting on the way the warship
Herald carrying Hobson on his mission of
annexation. At the bay she married Philip
King, son of a missionary who had landed in
”14 with Marsden and his glad tidings for
Honare. The rest was a story of war and
watching the pakelia come and the Maori
die, and settling down 53 years ago at middle
age in the quiet little township of Waiuku.
There are 45 great-grandchildren and some
of the fifth generation.
“Devilfish”: Co-operation is a live thing
amongst the fishermen at Dunalley (Tas.).
The owners of nine local fishing-boats joined
together a good while since to put up their
own apparatus for boiling da cray, and also
a smokehouse for curing fish. Then they
employ their own agent, an ex-fisherman, in
Sydney to sell the catch for them, and though
the expense of this comes heavy on such a
small society, they have no wish to go back
to the old system. When the crayfish are
running well they get some good hauls. The
other week, which was nothing out of the
way, they put through 300 score.
Columbia University—the largest “shop”
in the U.S.A.—will presently be turning out
Doctors of Commerce (D.C.), someone hav-
ing presented it with £124,000 to set up a
special School of Business. The donor says
the helplessness of the average graduate has
so. hurt him that he felt bound to do some-
thing. The School will therefore take the
gentle scientist before he is let loose and
pump him full of wordly knowledge and vil-
lainy. So in the good time coming the scien-
tist will probably no longer be content to
accept a hodman’s wage for his distinguished
services. There are masters in their own
line even in Australia who are getting
scarcely more than corporation laborers.
“Wynella”: So the funny Australian
Literature Society is still going in Mel-
bourne 18. 22/3/’l7) ! When I was a lot
younger I was decoyed there two or three
times by senior female relatives who wanted
to do their best for Australian literature, and
took the' signboard over Furlong’s Rooms at
face value. The place' was full of well-mean-
ing amateurs (State-school duennas mostly)
who -were intellectually shepherded by ami-
able gentlemen like Dr. T. P. Mclnerney,
who talked vaguely of “encouraging” Aus-
tralian literature. The society’s chief
trouble at that period seemed to be that few
authors turned up to be encouraged by hav-
ing their “works” (beautiful word!) read
aloud by some schoolmarm. The dullest of
several dull evenings I snent there was
monopolised by Dr. Thomas Patrick himself,
sworn inimy of the “caustic and hypercriti-
cal Bulletin.” On that occasion the mellow
old Irishman spoke with admiration and joy
of the beautiful gumtrees of Australia. He
said, with a beaming and irresistible smile,
that the branches of the gum were arranged
like umbrellas. He was so proud of his dis-
covery that he kept on saying it with varia-
tions for an hour and a half until even the
faithful schoolmarms were tired 5f it. I
can’t look at a gumtreo now without think-
imr that the branches are arranged like
Mclnerneys.
“Sapper Bill”: We were camped at Sera-
peum. on the Canal, when a whisper stole
through the lines that there were six stone
jars of rum in three cases in a big ration
dump at the railway siding. The treasure
was guarded by an N.C.O. and four men—-
all English. One of the “diehards” bor-
rowed two stripes for his arm. marched six
cobbers down to the dump and halted them
in front of the sentry. “Where’s this rum
the blighters want carted up?” he asked.
The unsuspecting sentrv showed him the
three cases. “Now. then! Get hold of those
cases. Two men to a case. March!” The
orderly-room had to deal with numerous
cases next morning, but no one blew the
gaff. Bluff goes a long way in the army.
Bananaland Government now owns stations
with an area of 7923 square miles, carrying
82,609 head of cattle and horses. Or at
least it owes for them, having paid for them
with lOU’s. There is already talk of fine
profits: but the man who talks of fine profits
in stock-raising after being in the gamble
only a few months has a lot to learn.


is a
pface in j/our
Rome fou (Re
BEALE
KALOPHGNE
c fho 'lnstrument - -
(hat recreates the
best music in the-
best way. '(Hear
one at our showrooms
■==\\\Urrr i. y/ r/
nd= 111,
—11 l
mmm
~
m.
m
y>w
/A
>;WM
Wi
'//
'//
5Ss
sil
SSg
V"
jr/t
mmm-n
m
&
P
i
) .. ms
3101
fct* f
Vi-'
£VJk-
/w
rm
#
m
fill
<: -
US;.
JHdde rn jHdny Styles
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
<b G
factories:
41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY
And al Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Wagga. Victoria Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs Tasmania . Williams Bros.. Hobart.
Maples, Launceston South Australia John Evans Ltd. c-idelaide Queensland. 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane. Kent Street, Maryboiough.
Flinders Street, Townsville Rockhampton Sydney Street, Macka>. Cairns.


//uv
&
FISHERS PHOSPHERINE
k
LU
aum
'i-n.
w?-- , ••-./•) I
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
Is appreciated by
All Who Use It
11 Its Merit in Cases of ®
Nervousness, Neuralgia,
Indigestion, Acidity,
Rheumatism, Backache and
Headache is proved by the
GRATEFUL TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Dear Sirs,—-In a very few words—though volumes
may be written~l wish to praise your wonderful
Phospherine. For nervous headaches and indigestion
I find it a valuable remedy and most excellent for
rheumatism, (Mrs.) L. Middleton
Thi* preparation has been manufactured by Fisher & Co. for
the past forty yean.
1-
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
per bottle, four times the quantity
2e
CHEMISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY,
ix . " sw -
F. 137 P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing l Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing 1 Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
I
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone 25i ny n Ji"j?, ;,s «? ciei^
, i xt- . antl P°"eiful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolrlet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY'.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
BELLEVUE
The only Hotd
overlooking
HOTEL, the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIC;AN
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament. House.
BRISBANE
m
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to Jie out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The NEW
EDISON
will delight you.
nssHUMo
■ B
The life-like, natural,
perfect tone of The
NEW EDISON appeals
to the most cultured
music-lovers; it will
appeal to you.
it re-creates the
human voice and all
forms of music, so that
the most highly-trained
ear is deceived, for the
tones are indistinguish-
able from those of thr
living artist.
A\ rite to-day for illus-
t r a 1 p d descriptive
printed matter-, post
free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney
REMARKA BLE
NEW DISCOVERY
GREY HAIR
Naturally Restored by Simple,
Harmless Method.
10,000 TRIAL BOTTLES
OFFERED FREE to
Readers of this Paper
Si.
1
'■m.
W
NO DYES OR STAINS
MY GENUINE SPECIFIC IS NOT A DYE
OR STAIN. It is almost as clear as water, in
fact, many persons have remarked that it is truly
wonderful to think that a preparation that does
not even stain a sheet of white paper, will restore
grey hair to its natural colour. It is a great mis-
take to apply a preparation such as an ordinary
dye that will darken the hair immediately. No
self-respecting person would think of adopting
such a method ; first, because the sudden change
attracts attention and ridicule on the part of
acquaintances. Second, because the colouring is
almost exactly the same as if ordinary ink were
used, as the actjve chemical agents in such
dyes are nearly the same as are employed to give
the colour and body to writing inks. Third, the
stain is only very temporary and it cannot be
evenly applied, therefore the darkening is in
patches. Moreover, the scalp is likely to be-
come discoloured. Fourth, these dyes injure the
hair shafts, and cause the hair to gradually fa 1
away. Fifth, the dark colour is not natural, it
looks as if the person had anplied writing fluid
or stove polish. Sixth, when the hair is moist
through perspiration or wetting the colour will
run. Imagine the horror of blacking chair backs,
ullows, etc.
A SIMPLE EXPERIMENT.
Take a post card and put it over the
right side of the line through the centre
of the face. The left side shows a man
looking between 50 and 60 years of age.
Now cover the left side and note thie
remarkable transformation. It shows a
man of between 25 and 35, but not a day
older.
I AM A WOMAN who belongs to a prema-
turely grey haired family. My father was
grey before he was 30, and two of my bro-
thers as well as my sister became grey early
in life. Before the age of 25 I developed
grey hairs, which became quite embarrassing
to me socially, and also in business. I LOST
THREE GOOD POSITIONS for no other rea-
son than my fading hair. The greyness in-
creased with alarming rapidity, and at 28 I
LOOKED LIKE A WOMAN OF 45. One day
I was seriously thinking of buying one of the
many Grey Hair Restorers that are extensively
advertised, when I casually mentioned the
subject to an acquaintance—a scientific man,
and, as I afterwards learnt, a great student
of the Chemfstry of the Hair. He strongly
advised me to have nothing whatever to do
with these concoctions. He pointed out that
SUCH PREPARATIONS EVETUALLY RUIN-
ED THE HAIR, and in the meantime rarely
deceived even the casual observer. He sug-
gested that I try a formula that he had
perfected after a considerable time, which, by
a certain chemical action on the pigmentary
colouring cells restored the hair to its normal
colour. In reply to my enquiries, he assured
me that the formula was not only absolutely
harmless, and would develop A STRONG AND
BEAUTIFUL GROWTH OF HAIR. My friend
wrote out his prescription, which I had made
up, and after carefully following the instruc-
tions for a few days, I was surprised and de-
lighted to find my hair becoming richer and
darker in tone. The re-colouring process con-
tinued until after some few weeks my hair
actually once again possessed the natural shade
of my girlish days. Since then I HAVE
BEEN INUNDATED WITH ENQUIRIES from
friends and also persons unknown to me, who
came to hear of this wonderful preparation.
Having become convinced that I have found
A REMEDY OF EXTRAORDINARY MERIT,
and which is quite harmless, I have resolved to
offer it for sale, as I am certain from my own
experience that it will prove an inestimable
boon to any man or who finds grey
hair to be the same serious handicap it was
to me. It is a Guaranteed Genuine Prepara-
tion, and I OFFER A REWARD OF £lOO
if it will not re-colour Grey Hair to Original,
Natural Shade.
If you are interested in this wonderful pre-
paration I am willing to send you A TRIAL
BOTTLE. Simply
write your name
and full address
plainly and enclose
FREE
3 stamps for postage, and I will write you
by return post, or if convenient call.
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
Jo Mrs. MAR I K. CHAPMAN (Suite 56), Falmouth Chambers.
ill Pitt Street. Sydney (just below G.P.0.).
/ enclose three stamps for postaye. etc., on a Sample Pottle of your Genuine
Specific, ivhich please send by return post.
A a me
Address
(Mr.. Mrs., or Miss.)
State
5
* M
The BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
Tlie two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They botli have
Pig-skin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long flaps and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle.
Freight Free for Cash to Any Port or Rail-
way Station in N.S.W. For 3s. 6d. extra
for casing we will send Freight Free to any
direct port in Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia, N.Z. or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 11/6, SADDLECLOTH 6 6,
BREASTPLATE 8/-
If Ordered with Saddle. Otherwise Is. each
Extra for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
W alther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS
393 George Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. -Vo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F 360: For ;i start, it isn't unlawful in
The B. to “win” a thing. In fact, this paper would
rather a man “won” a prize than “annexed” or
“achieved” or “appropriated” it. The B. loathes
the use of three words where two will do, and two
syllables where one is enough... .Jay Bee: You asked
us to convene a meeting. We told you that that was
off our beat.... Hustler: That combination of bull,
gramophone and thirst should have produced results
less like a curate’s adventure at a Sunday-school
picnic. .. .T.A.8.: Gentle, commonplace verse that
flutters in feeble piety through 32 dreary stanzas. ...
8.C.: “Greater Fear” is plain melodrama, and the
weakest point about it is the unconvincing talk of
the poker-swinger's friends... .C.T.: “Home Ser-
vice' moves too heavily.... P.E.D.: Commonplace
matter; dull, inaccurate writing.... A.G..T.: Not up.
.... Yakka: Try your hand again later 0n.... 8.C.:
“Dreams” defy rhythm without achieving their aim.
. ...M.8.P.: Sorry: too rugged.... G.S. : The mid-
night cat is a theme for wilder music....E.M.E. :
You have music in you, but the thought doesn’t keep
pace with it... .M.McI.: Nothing in it except the
steal from H00d.... W.J.H.: Fluttered to death with
a feeble twitter. .. .Cold • Snap: Well, if Carrie
worries you so in bed, there’s no need to put your
domestic troubles into bad verse. You can sleep on
tlie dining-room sofa... .0.5. A.: Second-rate parodies
in alleged broad Scotch make no appeal.... 11.11. D.:
Melancholy fragment rejected.... L’Abcille : “Chequer-
board” well written, but not worth writing. .. .
H.G.G.: Thin. .. .M.M.C.: Too many bumps....
F.A.M.: Boor attempt. ~. W.D.T.: Not nearly up.
....By Cat: Starts with a flop and ends with a
waddle, and the rest is trite and feeble. ... Awalia:
Descriptive verse has to be done better than that.
I.M.: “Coaling” not well enough done.. . . J. 11.:
Have no desire to identify the author. The verse is
far below publication mark. .. .C.M.: “Complex Per-
sonality" has no punch. ... Nemo: No use. And get
another pen-name... .Silyab: Not .much in the yarn.
....The Rabbit: Quite well written, and with some
insight and feeling, but not the sort of stuff we
print.... R. 11.: It would require exquisite skill to
tell that yarn convincingly.... 8.C.: “Empire Con-
ference” fails badly.... 11. H.: Noisy, but not force-
ful.... 4217 Gunner: The katipo is what you mean,
not “takipo,” and it’s very, very rarely that he gets
on the job. . . .E.C.C.: The verse form ruins it....
b.A.S.: Well, let ’em have it:—
In earlier days, when my blood did run
Riot through heart and veins,
That was the time that I should have won
Glory and fame with brains.
I did have brains, so people said,
Ready to do me duty ;
Now, they are dull and heavy as lead,
And refuse to do good.duty.
So, my friends, when the iron is hot,
Strike it with all your might;
For when it’s cold 'tis not worth a jot—j
Think on this adage, ’tis right.
.. . .L.R.F.: Verse not up. “Clancy” too slight. .. .
Battle-axe: Commonplace, and several lines out of
scansion.... Nulla: That harp wanted surer and
firmer fingering P.K.J.: Your rhymes are defec-
tive Vlfonso: Shocking. .. .J.C.S.: Sorry; not up.
H.P.: “Ruminations” and verse fail.... Ama-
teur: Deadly commonplace with a piling-up of old,
worn phrases. . ..W.V.H.: Very lame doggerel..,.
G.R..H.: No good. What’s our April got to do with
summer ‘!... . S.L.: One gem :
Or as you stand at corners of the street,
A Fritz-Hop will come, who’s on that beat.
“Artillery into line,” he will cry,
“Move on or you will die I”
Fifty rounds will clear the pavement of a few—
That’s how a Hun “copper” will earn his screw.
.....G.H.R.: it should gallop. Instead, it goes Mike a
wheelbarrow on cobble stones. . . .Dick Clay: You mis-
understand us. When we said that it was quite
time Jack London died, we did not dislike his free-
dom from hypocrisy, but merely pointed to his state
of mind: “I am weary of everything. I no longer
think of....the social revolution.” He had come
to the end of his dreams, and when an artist reaches
that point life isn’t worth living. .. .Clem S.: If it
was Yorky Lee who got that off his chest he must
have been a fair age when he turned his toes up
the other day—say, a couple of hundred-odd years.
-...Sea Cottage: True enough, but, it would be
sending coals to Newcastle to forward the informa-
tion to shipowners Grayem : A Tit Bits publica-
tion would receive you with open arms; but the
open cheque book is doubtful Queenslander:
Thanks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.H.B. : Much obliged; but Minns did something
like it just 12 months ago—the old cocky with his
scythe looking over the fence at the new one with
his header. ... W. Green: You are. .. . X.Y.Z. : Crude
drawing... .C.P.: You’re too young, child. ... H.W.:
Don’t want any of your perfectly flat people. . . .
L.Y.8.: Have you ever observed human beings'?
There are plenty of them about. . . .M.U.C.: The ideas
will do. . . .F.M.Y.: You remind us that there is a
serious paper shortage. . . .S.M.: Couldn’t look at it
twice. It flickers like an old film.
One appellant before a military service
board at Wellington (M.L.) the other day
said lie was an ex-Navy man and might he
called up for service with the fleet at any
time. Asked if lie held any discharges, Jack
pushed over a sheaf of ’em. There was the
Wildfire and the Impregnable, the Royal Oak
and Royal Arthur, Pembroke, Swiftsure.
Severn and Sphinx, Hyacinth, Argonaut.
Boscawen and Furious. During the troubles
in China, Somaliland and the Persian Gulf
the navy man had called in to help adjust
matters, and but for ill-health woud have
had a fathom or two of water under him at
the present time. The appeal was allowed
with enthusiasm.
D. I’. ('‘Percy") Russell, the Laborite
who is running against Irvine at Flinders,
is tlie man who gave Deakin such a fright at
Ballarat that Alfred dropped out at the next
election and resigned to 11. I'. McKay, of
Sunshine, the chance of getting licked by
McGrath (Labor). Russell, who is the
author of the hook, “Ireland and the Sinn
Fein Rebellion.” is having his second go at
the Iceberg. He js a member of the
Clerks’ Union.


A
c
OF ENERGY AND THE
v ' ,v?vW I ,w" i' s>’'''' v'V >' * '' ■ Av'vs'' ’ A '' 'Y' >iV' 'v. "' "A S' * « ■ > i '’. ' A'ovi
KLINGTITE BELTS—Carry All Ike Power
Machine overseers with years of experience
in transmission belting most enthusias-
tically endorse the use of Goodyear
Klingtite Belting.
Extraordinary claims for belt performance
could not in any material degree
influence this judgment of practical
men who know the severe requirements
of power transmission.
The continuous service and low maintenance
cost of Goodyear Klmgtite Belts have
been the sole factors of Klmgtite suc-
cess in the saw-mill, the power-house,
the machine-room and the factory.
Slipping, stretching, ply separation —these
are the worst enemies a belt encounters.
Yet the “ Klingtite” is fortified against
all of these as no other belt we know of.
One fact above all others makes for the
growing use of Goodyear Belting, and
that is that Goodyear designers and
engineers do not rest on past laurels —
their aim is ever to improve the Good-
year production so that its position now
as leader may be retained for all time.
This continual research has given Good-
year Rubber Belting much longer life,
much greater efficiency, and with all
that economy in operation which power-
using executives desire.
When you realise that the conservation of
energy and the transmission of power
is largely dependent upon the belts used,
you have at once the answer to Klingtite
popularity among users of belt-driven
machinery.
Klingtite has cheaper “first cost” competitors, but in the
final analysis of all cost it becomes the cheapest belt
to use because of its ability to transmit all the power
all the time without expensive delays or shutdowns.
Klingtite quality never varies, slippage and power waste are
almost unknown, it is not affected by moisture or
water. Klingtite is making new records in Austral-
asia as elsewhere for long life where dust or grit
makes necessary the frequent renewal of ordinary
belting. There are few —very few —situations in which
Klingtite Belts will not supplant other belts and do
better work at lower cost.
If you doubt these statements try Klingtite alongside any
other belting under same conditions, and after that
you too will believe in Goodyear quality and Good-
year service—better work at lower cost.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE and RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: 231 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
122 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE. . 6 CHESSER STREET, ADELAIDE.
West Australian Agency : CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.) LTD., 894 HAY STREET, PERTH.
Queensland Agency : J. G. BRAILLARD, CLUB BUILDINGS, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
H
. E ■ V A L V E S
m
m
m


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
Xew and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cnbines-de-
J.nac. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private liathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For till information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT- S. N. CO., Ltd.,
2, 4. G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows .('circumstances 'permitting) :— r
SYDNEY
nrtJSRANE
MARYBOROUGH
BONDAGEKG
*IH)CK HAMPTON
(I’t. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
(TURNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
XOttTJI.
m.'jnv.VH (Cargo Only).
Leaves Sydney, April 14.
GOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, April IS.
Leaves Sydney, April 21.
OAXBKIULV (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, April 20,
Leaves Sydney, April 28.
MKLBOUKXJS
'(Transhipping for
S.A. a;kl \V. A. ports)
‘Passengers only.
south.
CANJ3KIUU (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, April 21.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Dunking. I’nlilie Companies, &c.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AFTIIOIiISF.D CAPITAT £2,900,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Un £1.198,679
RESERVE FUND ,£95,000
HEAT) OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 57 Thread need Ie >t reel. E.C.
DIRECTORS —Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
Gkorgb J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood.
Esq.; Herbert R. LVsagiit, Esq.; George F.
Total an, Esq.; lion. F. Jago Smith, M.E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales ,v Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all (lie principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON. General Manager.
thk
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,00*0,000.
Directors: THOS. IVELSBY (Chairman): The lion.
Sir ALFRED S. COWEE). Kt. (Depute Chairman):
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. IE MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
lion. Sir ROBERT PIIJLP, K.C.M.G.; lion. \. ,1
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: .T. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Olliee: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
S( >UTH IVA IVES.
• AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 180,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.009 4 5
All new business since IMS specially protected.
Directors— Geo, Kdwd. Butuiiiig, Esq, (Chairman) ;
ITon. G. IV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jus. Milne, Esq.; IV. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— lV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - IiKISJBAN'E.
Itrnnclies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George ,T. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman..
Hon. 11. E. Katkr, M.L.C. . . Dcputv-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Know Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. 11. Massik.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529.95S
Preference Shares,. . . .. TSOjOOO
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up ; 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,115,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Xea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
P.ritain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS;
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST. FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATE I) SER VICE.
THE “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with tiie CANADIAN PA Cl I I<
KAIIAVAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH HOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL RE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to U.S.A.
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning hy Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES "WILL RE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A IJENKJ ICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PEACH) SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY 1 — PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
'or illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 209 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
.Sind for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILB & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
m
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
m
£3,705.320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, Iv.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. .lames T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negs-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
L BTTSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
mm
Jank°'BiiotraKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking; Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of* Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of tlie world.
Ranking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £.300
3%,
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KKLI-, Deputy Governor, June, 1916 DENISOX MILLEK, Governor
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box IGIO. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms 'and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The AVinter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 10/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/0 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH. Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
TheCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in Oct. Gold, from 10 '(} each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
Shipping.
THEAOELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASS EX C.HE SERVICE to and fiom
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
BKISBANE
MACKAY
rnwNsvirjjj
And Ports North to Cairns.
PA RING A, April 14.
MOUIALTA, April 21.
UI'PAI!A, April 28.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
ilie first Port of call with oilier Inter-State Companies
oil all services subject to conditions. which can be
| ascertained on application at the Company's OMice.
i g. s. vrrr,T, & co„ ltd.,
Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
I Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Sleanisliips
“Zealandia,” “Wimmera,”
“ Ulimaroa,” “Victoria.”
“Riverina,” “ Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
lIOHART AND SVDNEV.
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
; SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IX SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERI C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to Loudon.
Inteiehangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modem Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc-.,
Apply to
DIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACIIARN & C’o. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. .TONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munviliumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY’, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.' —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. fid.: second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 201 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ’’
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
IO,OCO tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers. *
BURNS. PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED.
Agents, tl BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly-—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see rhe
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


A KodaK Holiday
—the best of all.
A Kodak is a maker and a recorder of happiness.
The making of Kodak pictures enables you to
more keenly enjoy your good times and to bring
home a picture note of all that pleases you.
Without a Kodak vour holidays will be quickly
forgotten and lost forever.
Be sure you take a Kodak.
You can learn to use a Kodaß
in half an hour
and can make pictures right away. There are Autographic Kodaks
from 30/= to £l5 2/=
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak takes postcard pictures—
-5| x 3|- inches. Price £5/10/=
Ask for YOUR copy of a splendid booklet: “Picture Making
with a Kodak.”
Of all Kodak dealers, and
i
ISIII
■
mu
’AS*
ill
TO
m
m§
m
%
VM
’■
2}a?
£ 111
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; "The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen Street. Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street. Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, also Corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, W ellington, N./j
3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
What a satisfaction to see your
FIGURE IMPROVED each day.”
AGOSSARD graduate corsetiere said this to a new customer last summer,
and we have instructed corsetieres everywhere to say .the same thing to every
woman who looks at a Gossard.
Gossards lace in front — we originated the idea 14 years ago. You lace your
corset in a minute each time you put it on. Ill this minute each day you can
gently reduce or mould your figure as you want it. In no other corset is this possible.
If you are short-'waisted or have a poor back-line, you may have a longer waist-
line and a graceful back-line. All you need is the Gossard designed for your
figure-type.
■m
r
O
Ideal Short-Waisted and
Curved-Back Figures
If your back line does not please you,
a special straight-line model may be
selected that will, in a very short time,
give you a beautiful, normal back line.
Daily, short waists are made longer and
curved back lines straighten by special
Gossards designed for these figures.
An expert corsetiere who understands
your figure requirements will deem it
a pleasure to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women of Australia
and New Zealand by
Allan & Stark, Ltd.,
Brisbane, Australia.
J. Ballantyue & Co.,
Cashel Street. Christchurch. X’.Z.
Stafford Street, Timaru, X.X.
Buckley A Xnnn. Ltd.,
29S-312 Rourke Street, Melbourne,
Australia.
Ilarry Davies Co..
Ballarat, Australia.
Drapery & General Importing Co. of
New Zealand, Ltd.,
Lyttelton, X.Z.
Wellington, X.Z.
Farmer & Co.. Ltd.,
Sydney, Australia
dames Marshall A Co.,
Adelaide, Australia.
Milne & Choree. Ltd-
Queen Street. Auckland: X.Z.
Ideal
C 'urverf-Back
Figure.
Kim
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd.,
and George Streets, Sydney, Australia.
Ideal
Short-1 Vais ted
Figure.
m
¥p
m


15he Grant Six;
A Grand Six..
Latest
Model.
■
m
V
Only
£365.
Telephone: City 8862
SOLE AGENTS
•9
GARAGE: and
SHOWROOMS,
162 Castlereagh St., Sydney
IN BANANA LAND
“Long Bob”: I don’t know where the
mothers of to-morrow’s herds are to come
from. For the year 1916 I kept a record
of the cattle slaughtered by a butcher in a
Bananaland farming district. Of ’4OO killed
318 were females, and only 82 males. If
other districts are following suit, no wonder
cattle are dear. As to the remedy, it must be
prohibition of the slaughter of female cattle,
or prohibition of speying. I advocate the
latter, as that would compel big breeders
to sell breeding cows to small holders.
The victory of Labor in the Maryborough
by-election has left a nasty taste in the
mouth of the Phewsion. The fact that Weir,
the successful candidate, improved on Labor’s
previous majority to the extent of 200 votes
is ominous. The disgruntled “Nationalists”
are making all the capital they can out of
tlie statement made by Weir that he is in
favor of class legislation. The “National-
ists,” of course, don’t want class legislati :.n.
They merely want the Leg. Council.
“F.E.M.”: When Arnold Wienholt.
Bananaland’s richest bachelor, escaped from
the Germans in East Africa, people who
knew him were not surprised. He had been
acting as a scout —having learnt something
ol: the country when on a lion-hunting expe-
dition in 1913 —and was captured by natives
in the employ of the Hun. After several
months’ silence lie cheered his friends with
a cable, casual and characteristic. “All well.”
Wienholt gained notice some years ago when
he unsuccessfully fought Fisher for the
Wide Bay seat, having resigned Fassifern
to tackle the job at bis meetings. He
was, however, wretchedly nervous and
generally managed to either upset the
water-bottle or put the inkwell in his
pocket. After being defeated by Andy
lie went big-game hunting in Africa, ending-
up by getting his arm chewed to the shoulder.
He is a good all-round sport, and learnt his
games on “the playing grounds of Eton.”
“R..T.8.”: Can any trader say whether
sea-turtle’s eggs have any reasonable com-
mercial value? In another month the hen
turtles will be waddling ashore right along
the sand-fringed edge of Bananaland, from
Maekay to Torres, and soon the nests, high
up on the beach, will contain anything from
90 to 140 eggs. The fishy flavor of the eggs
keeps them off the table; but there surely
must be some direction in which they can be
pushed with profit.
Ryan has decided to make May 5 an
electors’ day-out. Besides voting for Sena-
tors and a member of the House of Reps.,
the Bananaland elector will be asked to say
what he thinks on the great pub-closing ques-
tion, and,, far more important still, whether
it is his will that the nominee second Cham-
ber should continue to exist. If Queensland
says it wants a nominee second Chamber it
will be equal to saying that it thinks it really
"needs a strait jacket. A nominee second
Chamber is a democracy’s strait jacket—the
thing which prevents it doing what it wants
to do; and the only reason why it should
be restrained from doing what it wants to
do is that it isn’t in its right mind. It
will _be interesting to see what is Queens-
land’s idea of its own mental condition.
ESTABLISHING HIS IDENTITY.
ACROBAT (to star of the show, during a quarrel): “Look here, you needn't take me for a
mug because I'm only a tumbler.”
“P.L.”: Tlie two most popular labels
affixed to pretentious suburban residences
around Brisbane are “M.vola” and the Maori
“Kia-ora.” M.vola in Northern blackfellow
lingo signifies “the place where adulterers are
slaughtered.” Kia-ora (Kee-ora) is Maori
for “Live for ever,” but Bananalanders
always call it “Ky-ora,” which is an invita-
tion to all present to come and eat. Apropos
of nomenclature, the Railway Department,
in getting rid of German names, might at
least adopt Australian monikers. The
substitution of Townshend for Marburg when
scores of euphonious aboriginal words were
available has nothing to commend it.
From the Toowoomba Chronicle of 50
years ago:—
At a public meeting in the School of Arts, Mr.
Groom presiding, it was resolved: “That this meet-
ing is of opinion that the present hours of business
in Toowoomba, viz., from 7 a.in. to 8 o'clock
p.m., making 13 working hours on five days of the
week, and from 7 o’clock a.m. until 11 o’clock
p.m. on Saturdays, making 16 working hours, are
extremely oppressive both to employers and em-
ployees, and are altogether unnecessary for the pur-
poses of business and for the public convenience.
That in the opinion of this meeting hours of closing
should be fixed at 6 p.m. throughout the year.”
Eighty-one working hours per week ! “Ah,
them was the days!”
“Platinan”: Curses are coming home to
roost. Labor and most other classes having
been one after another corrupted by the
vote-hunting politician in Queensland, Harry
Coyne finds his new Minister for Railways
job just about intolerable, lie is badgered
by the employees for more pay and by
every section of the public for better or
cheaper services, and when he sits down
and says it can’t be done he observes all
hands go out to sharpen their axe for his
political slaughter. For doing an obvious
duty Coyne reckoned he ought to get three
cheers from Labor, at any rate ; instead, In*
finds the Standard, the Labor daily, rolling
up its sleeves like the rest of them. He
begins to realise that running a general
strike was an- easy job, after all.
If. E. Sizer. ■ returned Ahpac and member
of the literary staff of the Daily Mail, is
going to give ex-Speaker Charles McDonald
a run for the Kennedy electorate. Sizer
"belonged to the original 9th and was in
tlie landing party on the famous 25th of
April.
“Hydross”: Know anything about this?
Five thousand four hundred bullocks at £25
per head? Vendor, a Bananaland cattle
king; purchasers some meat co. or other.
Vendor to guarantee that bullocks average
a thousand or more. Contract signed during
the last few weeks; delivery in three months.
If correct, this should come mighty close to a
record, considering price, number and weight.
Killed in France, Major 11. W. Lee, one of
Queensland’s youngest senior officers. He
was a son of the veteran Lieut.-Col. H. W.
Lee, formerly of Maryborough, now of
Alderly, and left Brisbane back in Septem-
ber, 1914, with the “Fighting Ninth,” of
which Lee, sen., was in command. Young
Lee—he was only 25 when he finished —saw
most of the Peninsula argument, and in
France managed to keep going in the thick
of things until March 21. Sporting circles
are mourning the loss of a good fellow and
smart athlete.
Witches Two.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the witches rode on the old broom-
stick
’Tvvas a wondrous sight to see;
They’d fly like a flash by the chimney-tops
And rise where the white clouds be ;
They’d drive pell-mell at the drifting moon
And mock at the twinkling star,
■ And sing aloud: “What a gay, gay crowd
For the night we witches are!”
‘They’d steal some soil from the murd’rer’s
grave.
Draw blood from the victim’s vein ;
They’d stir it round in a cauldron deep
And chant in a curdling strain ;
They’d mix the stuff of the viper’s tooth
With juice of the newly-dead,
And boil it in with the serpent’s skin
And drop it upon your head.
1 tell this tale to a curly pair
Who sit on a big man’s knee,
And they want to know if the witches go
Round yet with their ancient glee ;
1 tell them “No,” for a wiser plan
They’ve hatched as the years roll by.
For they’ve got pink cheeks and a curly nob
And a smiling, soft blue eye.
And, although they steal no churchyard
mould,
And pour no black blood in.
They work no less at a cauldron queer
Their own sweet way to win;
For a smile and a te..r and a low laugh dear
They stir in a potent brew,
And try it then on a foolish man
Who’s a mate with the witches two.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, Aprie 7, lf>l7.
My Dear Tjiargomixdah,—
Another good youngster has been wounded,
for the second time. His front name is Fred-
erick, he belongs to the R.F.A., is a son of
Lord Chelmsford, and was a chubby lad when
the now Viceroy of India was Governor of
Queensland.
John Macdonald Forbes, who retired from
tile Customs a few days ago on reaching the
age limit, is well known along the coast
from Brisbane to Thursday Hi*
entered the service in May, 1874, and 10
years later was appointed sub-collector at
Thursday Island. Seven years ago he was
transferred to Brisbane as sub-collector and
senior-inspector of excise. It was he who
ferreted out the so-called mail-bag scandal
at Cooktown, a fraud by which certain
Government officials regularly smuggled
contraband.
Miss Lome McDougall, daughter of the
McDougalls of Cooyar station, Darling-
Downs, was married last Wednesday to
Trooper 11. A. K. Vemess, mostly of Glen
Innes, but now in camp at Enoggera. The
bride showed what can be done with ivory
duchesse satin and rose point lace. There
were four bridesmaids, Misses Emily
McDougall, Yeness, Alice Hawthorne and
Marion Clapperton, all trucked in shell-pink
crepe de chine. Little Agnes McDougall and
her brother Darcy were trainbearers. Three
tall soldiers, one of them a son of the
McDougall clan, saw to it that the groom
didn’t bolt for cover. Malcolm McDougall
acted as referee. The toasts were tossed off
at Johnson’s cafe.
Mr. and Mrs. George .Tolinston, of Sand-
gate, enjoyed their golden wedding on April
5. He has been in Queensland since 18GB,
having arrived by the ship Rockcliffe. She
was a Couyty Fermanagh girl and came
here in the ship Wansfell in 1866. There
are five sons, three, daughters and 24 grand-
children living. One son is the manager of
Reuter’s, another (the eldest) is a school-
inspector, two are farming in Queensland,
and Adam is a partner in the Sydney firm or
Hughes and Johnston, wool buyers.
Some men are much more shy about their
age than even you are, my dear. Two of
them enlisted in a Far North depot the other
day, and if it wasn’t for the fact that the
Defence Department is the deadly enemy of
such conscienceless wretches, I’d tell yon
their names. Anyway, one was 50 and the
other was 174 —don’t forget the 4. They
were uncle and nephew, so you can see that
wickedness runs in the family.
Tetanus carried off N. P. Gustavson,
Brisbane’s very well-known engineer, the
other day. A mere tap on a finger with a
hammer caused the original injury. Gustav-
son was a Swede, who had been 40 years in
the State.
Billjim won’t be neglected if some big
Australians in Bananaland can help it. The
other day Minister for Lands Hunter, chair-
man of the Queensland War Council, was
notified that I. J. Moore and Miss F. A.
Moore, of Barambali station, in the Burnett
district, and Mrs. Clarke, of Melbourne, the
son and daughters of late pastoralist Isaac
Moore, had donated 7075 acres of land to
the Repatriation Fund practically without
conditions. The land is within six miles of
Bundaberg, well watered, and portion of it
is suitable for fruit-growing and dairying.
Another patriot, William Naugliton, of
Emerald, is contributing £lO,OOO in three'
years. The first cheque for £2045 has
already been forwarded as a hint to others
to do likewise.
Another possible industry for Queensland
is banana flour. The French have been
using it to their satisfaction in some of their
military hospitals. The meal from the
fruit in the West Indies costs about 2d. a
lb., and when mixed with wheat flour it
makes delicious loaves or cakes. Probably
it is a waste of time to mention the matter,
because a community that allows hundreds
of tons of pineapples to rot when one (1)
of the fruit of medium quality costs a shil-
ling in Sydney and Melbourne, has some- ,
thing wrong witlj its business mind. Don’t
blame “the ring,” Thargomindali dear.
That’s just the same as saying, “Oh, hang
it, what’s the use?”
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Postle” : lie “sprue.” In 12 years I have
known only two or three deaths from it in
Mac-kay. If you want to get over an attack,
eat mangoes or bananas and milk.


mg.
v¥
■■ 8
iai
> ■
«■*! *
MS,
mmm
,
1
111
V.. ;
Sill
si
Oen Sir
s
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Gen. Sir W. Robertson is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set of 12 will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or 12 penny
(Commonwealth) stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a
set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W3Z
oano
fvaJocTTi A C° V*
Oioruim
m
V/S////S////////////////S/S/-""'"
m
mu.
Wto
y/sssssss
fat.
$ %
/ %
faj
fa/.
'//////>
m.
J
h
/ %
%
€
%
m
i
%
%
I
I
%
J


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping ihe liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sale for
children.
m
Carters!
l
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Smalt Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment: Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of hay rum and a small box
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of ;he hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff.— Advt. [2
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, fust off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
s
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester, Eng.
m
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matterwhat your respiratory organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma, Hay
Fev e l' J* ose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins iy all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
-' H IB t;i Mj j I: ’ r 1 'I: j T 11;; r I TT
I
BEAUTY SECRETS
REVEALED.
By “MIMOSA.”
HAIK CULTURE.
A DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
there is really no need to have poor or
impoverished hair if a few commonsense
rules are observed. First of all. hair tonics
must be freshly-made in. order to obtain the
best results, and thousands of women, and
men. too. are now making up their own
lotions with most satisfactory results. For
this purpose they obtain from the chemist's
one ounce of boranium and mix this with
1 pint of bay rum, quite a simple formula,
and according to all accounts remarkably
effective. This simple home-made lotion
quickly removes all dandruff, and creates a
growth of new. healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman. One word
in conclusion. Do not experiment with
your hair, long suffering though it may be.
Nature will surely revolt if you continue
to subject the hair and scalp to all kinds
of fanciful treatments. Employ a tonic by
all means if such is required, but having
found a satisfactory one use no other.
GOOD SHAMPOO IMPORTANT.
THE hair should be allowed to breathe,
and the greasy .film around each strand
must be' removed with a mild non-
alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be tabooed.
The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stal-
lax granules in a cup of hot water. It
stimulates the scalp to healthy action, and
at the same time leaves the hair in that
soft, fluffy condition so much admired. Any
chemist can supply you with an original
packet of stallax, sufficient to make twenty-
five or thirty shampoos.
MAGIC FOR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
IT is astounding the number of women
who suffer from unsightly growths of
hair on the face, and it will come as a
piece of good news to know that there is a
simple substance, known as powdered phe-
minol. which will remove it immediately
and permanently. Mix a small quantity
into a thin paste with a little water, and
apply to the objectional growths. In two
minutes all trace of the hair will have
entirely vanished, and your skin will be as
'-'f'fl ftpfl r oell -IS fl fUliWs.
RENEWING COMPLEXIONS.
THE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite
skin is now within her reach, providing she
has the good sense to stop using cheap made-
up preparations and adopt what has now
become known as the mercolised-wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that are the envy
of all their friends, and, as is usually the
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now
been verified, and is known as mercolised
wax. Inquiry at several chemists’ shops
have resulted in ascertaining that this sub-
stance has been known to the select few for
some years as a complexion beautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that it has been
used to any extent for this purpose. It was
also explained how mercolised wax renews
the complexion, but -as this is rather tech-
nical it is not proposed to repeat it here. It
will be sufficient to say that through some
peculiar action the wax absorbs the dead
and discolored outer cuticle, revealing the
fresh young complexion which every woman
has underneath. The process occupies about
ten days, and the change is so gradual and
imperceptible that no discomfort whatever
is caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
BLACKHEADS FLY AWAY.
A PRACTICALLY instantaneous remedy
for blackheads, greasy skins anil
enlarged pores, recently discovered, is
now coming into general use in the boudoir.
It is very simple, harmless and pleasant.
Drop a stymol tablet, obtained at the
chemist’s, in a tumbler full of hot water.
After the effervescence has subsided bathe
the face in the liquid, using a small sponge
or soft cloth. In a few minutes dry the
face and the offensive blackheads will come
right off on the towel. Also the large oily
pores immediately close up and efface them-
selves naturally. The greasiness disappears
and the skin is left smooth, soft and cool.
This simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five flays 4
ensure tho nepnonfi-,
Literature Free by Post from Nearest Agency or Depot.
Agency for
Motor Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd..
279 George St.,
Sydney.
m
Cord tyres
Agency for
Motor Cycle and
Cycle Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 George St.,
Sydney.
hard - wearing, trouble ■ free
These Palmer Cords are what you need for Colonial roads—tyre-muscles
with strength to govern the highest pressure-strain evenly, yet elastic
enough to transmit full engine power.
Canvas linings waste power by
creating internal friction. So much
so that Palmer Cord Tyres economise
10% of the Petrol.
(Vide Brooklands Test).
m
Made in all
sizes, with
the three-
ribbed rub-
ber and
the sfeei-
treads.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are made for light and heavy Motor Cars,
Cycle Cars, Motor Cycles and Aeroplanes.
PALMER FABRIC
forms the reinforcement of the lower-
priced Motor Cycle Tyres, of all Cycle
Tyres, and also of Auto-Wheel Tyres.
The Palmer Patent Cord is a development
from it.
Palmer Fabric consists of parallel threads
insulated from one another in pure rubber.
They cannot cross, or
chafe, or sag.
Palmer Patent Cords
follow the same idea. cords
replacing threads. Each
cord is built up of many
unit threads, all insulated
in pure rubber.
The PALMER TYRE, L'cL, Cl-icf Offices, 119 to 123, Shaftesbury Av., London, W.C.
Palmer Cycle Tyre Users are
cautioned in their in erests to
purchase only Tyres bearing
this mark. Disappointment
follows this neglect.
mm
m
m
m
TRADE
MARK
No Cycle Tyre Cover is •
genuine Palmer Cover unless it
bears this Trade Mark clearly
moulded on the side. (5)
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric E'ft Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Fitting Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. A. MAYXE HERON, Manager.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVEELEY PEN.”
"PJatman” : Just as everything is dragged
from other parts of X. S. Wales to Sydney,
so in Queensland every tiling is hauled to
Brisbane. For instance, railway freight on
wool from Longreach to Rorkbampton. 428
miles, is £4 10s. per toil : from Rockhampton
to Brisbane, o0<; miles, it is £2 10s. per ton.
a reduction of £2 a ton for a haul only
.'•2 miles shorter. That “special long-dis-
tance freight” meant that nearly 20.000 bales
were sent to Brisbane past the deep-water
of Port Alina, and Gladstone, easily the best
natural harbor on the Queensland coast.
Now. either the freight from. Longreach to
Rockhampton is too high or the charges
from ■Rockhampton to Brisbane are too low.
Judging by the railway deficit, probably the
latter is the case. Still what does that mat-
ter? The population of the capital is
increasing, isn’t it?
“Murkak”: The Yanks have installed
wireless on a train —the Delaware. Lacka-
wanna and Western Railroad Limited. No. 2.
Passengers don't need to wait till arrival to
send or receive love and kisses, spud ((nota-
tions and the like, for the flier transmits as
well as receives business through the eo.’s
"land” station, and messages are accepted
for “anywhere on this earth." The aeriai
wires extend over three carriages, and are
necessarily low, to avoid the tunnel
roofs. At first the roar tended to drown
received signals. But the fitting of a silence
cabin, with walls like a cold-store’s, over-
came the trouble. The usual Yankee rush
to send first message paid half the cost of
the installation, and a week’s business com-
pleted the job.
It is being put to the people that “the
Caucus party will divide its energies be-
tween carrying on the war and forcing
through Parliament a programme of conten-
tious legislation affecting matters uncon-
nected with the war. The Nationalists,
on the other hand, propose to devote them-
selves, as far as possible, exclusively to war
measures.” What is this “contentious legis-
lation affecting matters unconnected with
the war”? Peace is connected with the war.
just as much as the bump is connected with
a fall ; and practically all the Labor party's
"contentious legislation” is connected with
the bump—the tariff, for instance; indus-
trial rest; the settlement of soldiers in
industries at which they are likely to be
able to make a living, and so on. In peace
we let Germany alone seriously prepare for
war; and in war the “Nationalists" are
apparently quite prepared to let Germany
alone seriously prepare for peace.
Victoria needs, not only the registration
and licensing of every money-hunting effort
professedly made in the interests of soldiers,
but also a frequent official overhaul of the
books. The financial care of far too many
funds is nominally left either to self-asser-
tive men of no business capacity or to men
who, though having business capacity, are
too easy-going to exercise it. In some such
eases a few unscrupulous people have fat-
tened on the proceeds, and even when dis-
coveries have been made nobody has talked
loudly about it lest the good cause should
be injured.
The workers of Melbourne should have a
good word for the Vic. Railway Depart-
ment. at anv rate. That institution is
doing its best to find jobs for them, and
blow the expense! On the Camberwell line
brickwork by the chain has been erected
and then broken up; tons of clay embank-
ment have been carted into position and
then carted away again because the posi-
tion wasn’t right. At one station the clay
filling has been dumped in before the brick-
work was set, and has pushed the latter
out. so that it will have to be broken down
and rebuilt. Even in pulling up the old
platforms the Department “found work.”
having laboriously pounded, into rubble the
Milestone slabs that face the platforms,
though all might have been used again for
new platforms or doorsteps or window sills.
It all makes lots of work—especially for
those who by-and-bye will have to pay the
bill. But they don’t count —they have no
votes yet.
Now there’s a story afloat that Captain
von Muller, of the Emden, was born in
Queensland, on a selection that his father
had between Brisbane and Sandgate and
that he learnt his ABC at the Sand gate
State School.
“Moobita” from Vic.’s State coalfield :• —-
IVonthaggi, the Victorian coal-mining centre, now
holds a population of nearly 7000, supported mainly
by a fortnightly “pay" of between vOOOO and
C 10,000. It is solidly prosperous; yet most of the
people seem to live from hand to mouth, and practi-
cally all Hie business done in the stores (except As
to perishables) is scooped up within three days of pay
Friday (“Good Friday," in the local language). It
was a mad place once, and sly-groggeries were move
numerous than prayer-meetings. To-day it is con-
spicuously sober for a mining town: its three sub-
stantial stone pub? do merely a comfortable trade.
But nothing except drinking is done at Wonthaggi
?n a half-hearted way. Its militant unionism and
its frequent strikes are merely characteristic. The
people take their charity in the same spirit. Let a
bad case of distress be nosed out, and the whole town
puts its band in its pocket as a matter of course.
Even the gales that blow in the winter come joy-
ously up from the South Pole and leave no doubt as
to what they mean to be.
The place lias more to thank the State for than
most towns. The field was opened up by the Mines
Department during a coal-famine (Newcastle bad. a
strike on) seven years ago. Vested interests it.
Newcastle plugged it hard and often: and that it
wasn’t knocked out is due to three men —Peter
Mcßride, then Minister of Mines: Stanley Hunter, of
the Mines Department, now in France; and Campbell
McKenzie. Like all new Government undertakings
the State mine suffered at the outset from appalling
waste; the present manager, George Broome, and
tin exceptionally capable underground boss, .1.
MeLeish, have, however, made vast improvements.
But the same good services have not been rendered
by all State Departments. Though there is not a
vacant house to be had in the place, and people
are still arriving, the Lands Department lately had
a sale and fixed the upset for residential blocks
at from A-15 to £6O. This is a wrong policy;
especially when building materials are very costly
the high price stops men from establishing them-
selves in their own homes; and nothing- is a
greater guarantee of steady working than that. In
any case, it isn’t good to see the State putting land-
lordism into practice, and making men pay dearly
for the use of otherwise-useless land -because it is
near their work.


m
Driven
Warning
Signal,
Warning Signal
'The .Stewart Warning Signal is of comparatively
recent introduction, vet it is now used on more cars
than any other.
One lias only to walk down the street to confirm this.
Listen to the notes of the horns on the various cars.
The warning voice of the Stewart is the one most
frequently heard.
It is most used because the most satisfactory'.
Its warning is strong, clear and insistent—a call
that all must heed.
' Its construction is of the best.
It is built for service and gives it— not for a week or
a month, but for years.
Stewart Signals usually outlast the cars they are
fitted on.
For Sale by Accessory Dealers,
Stores and Garages.
If unable to obtain locally write to
BENNETT WOOD LTD.,
284 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Every article branded 'Stewart” is backed by tbe “Cooper”
organisation.
Headquarters: Berkhamsted, England,
Branches at London, Chicago, Montreal, Paris,
Australian Branch :
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.,
129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY;
486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
2»oSfcS£* BSP!?
Hand-
Operated
WARNING
SIGNAL,
£l/10/-
L»
If any illustration appearing in Tiua
B'TjIX'ETIn takes your fancy, write tu the
Manager, who will quote you pi’ice for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDXEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C.. Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black. M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns. M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian vnox. Esq., Iv.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TKECE. F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.. General Manager and Actuary. 11. IV. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 - £845,525. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,070,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and lull information without delay.
m
&
is.
>
m
Are You Ready
to enjoy a good day’s Shooting? When you are, you will
want first quality Ammunition.
Txsy Remington UMC waterproofed, steel-lined Cartridges.
They will give best results under all conditions of field shooting.
Ask your dealer to &upplyrfyou.
fyeoial booklet post free.
The Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
Invalids Enjoy
Benger’s Food. Letters from doctors and nurses continually
voice the gratitude of patients for rt. Invalid after invalid
writes to say : “It is the one Food of which they never tire.”
The ease with which
mm
Food
is digested and absorbed, makes it most welcome to patients,
and it ranks highest among nutritive foods.
Benger’s forms with milk a dainty cream, which is absorbed
with little digestive effort. The different method of preparing it
(see directions) is the measure of its i dvantages over other foods.
Monger's Food is entirely British in origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc. everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet, and full particulars post free from:
BENGERS FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (u.S.a.) 90, Beekman St. Depdts throughout Canada.
His Master’s Voice
\A** x *n U
w>:
cheers marooned explorers
for two years!
Read this appreciative extract from a letter: —
S.Y. Aurora,
10th March, 1!>17.
Did 1 tell you the story of how the Gramophone saved the lives of
our little party that way marooned in the South Pole District? it lien
the Aurora bad to get and leave us, and. as you know, she could not
get back, we were left for two years in that desolate region, and the
only things we were able to land was a set of “Kneyclopsedia
Britannica,” a “His Master’s Voice” Gramophone, and a collection of
Records. What we should have done without that machine for two
years, goodness only knows. You can imagine half a dozen men
together for two years, with nothing to read except a “Britannica,”
nothing to smoke, a pack of cards made out of pieces of paper, and the
last, but not the least, but a godsend, a Gramophone that told us, sang
to us, spoke to us, played to us all the glad music of the world (hat we
could not foresee in those dark days we should ever see again.
If ever I go on another expedition to the South Pole, as I feel sure
I shall after I have done my little bit with His Majesty’s Forces,
vou C an bet that the Gramophone will be one of the first goods purchased,
and the little dog on the side of the machine will be there. That little
dog on the machine, they tell me, means the best, and the best is always
good enough for me.
Kind regards,
(Signed) ERNEST E. JOYCE.
Your nearest dealer will play a similar model FOR YOU !
“GRAMOPHONE ’
Registered, Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY


Missing Friends.
CHARLES RICHARD GIBBINS
DECEASED.
WANTED known the whereabouts of
Mrs. ANNIE MILLER or her sou,
who about the year 1593 resided at Brisbane,
Mary Vale (via Warwick) and Lower
Coomera, Queensland.
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES LIMITED,
Brisbane.
Wanted.
WANTED to purchase Assay Plant
suitable for gold, silver and copper.
Apply by letter only, giving full particulars,
to
11. B. JAMIESON & GRIFFITH,
Public Accountants,
263 George Street, Sydney.
WANTED Reliable Assayer for country.
Gold, Silver and Copper. Prefer-
ence will be given to competent man with
some clerical experience. Apply by letter
only, furnishing copy credentials'and stating
salary required, to
H. B. JAMIESON & GRIFFITH.
Public Accountants,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
fIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY’S SMARTEST SHOW.
TIVOLI FOLLIES
and
MTSS VDRA PEARCE.
Plan at Nicholson’s -and Tivoli.
"piVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
COMING—APRIL 21.
MISS ADA REEVE,
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
g-| E R M A J E S T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
‘ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pAE A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
BARRY LTJPINO as “EDDIE.”
Smartest and Bri<rhtest of Musical Comedy Successes.
p EPERTORY THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NEW AUSTRALIAN SPORTING
COMEDY.
JINKED,
from Con Drew’s successful book.
Bulletin : “These stories of the underworld of the
spieler are most realistically told.”
Complete specially selected cast headed bv
FRED MACDONALD.
(Bert Bailey Co.).
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Direction Oswald Anderson.
WIBTHS’ NEW HIPPODROM E,
< HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 p.m.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and all Holidays.
WIRTHS’ GREAT CIRCUS AND
MENAGERIE OF PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALS.
Book your Reserved Seats at Nicholson's, Hotel
Australia and the Hippodrome, 5/-
Othcr 'seats 4'/-, 3/-, 2/-, plus war tax.
’Phone 1234 City.
ONLY TWO WORDS—BUT WHAT REAL
.JOY.
WH IT E 0I T Y
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
Q A R D E N THEATRE,
Bayswater Road, Darlingliurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE SMART SET
(from LONDON).
LAST FOUR NIGHTS.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
m
X MANGLE PLAYS at
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session ;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s. Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. B. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Harrington Miller, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Saucy' and
Piquant Musical Play,
CAN Ail Y COTTAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
THE AT It E KOV A L, JIELBOCBNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
A NOTABLE ENGAGEMENT.
MARIE TEMPEST
THE MAR I? I AGE OF KITTY
Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FULLER RECORD-BREAKING
PANTOMIME,
THE BUN YIP.
Special Prices: 4/-, 8/-, 2/- and 1/-
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOU II N E.
Lessees Messrs. BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
For the First Time in Australia.
J. & N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY COMPANY in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A Play of Mirth and Morals
by Winchell Smith and John E. Ilazzard.
Box Plan Allan’s.
lUIAJESTIC THEATRE,
■“■Flinders St. (near Station), Melbourne.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY,
BILLIE BURKE
In the Third Feature of
GLORIA’S ROMANCE,
entitled TANGLED THREADS.
A mil s ements.
|V| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world s best films, in-
cluding the productions of Fox, Vitagraph, 1\ orld,
Pathg, Selznick and Mutual-Chaplin.
BRITANNTA THEATRE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
MELBOURNE.
EASTER ATTRACTION.
Two Performances Daily, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
WILLIAM FOX presents
A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS,
Featuring
Miss ANNETTE IvELLERMANN.
Popular Prices. Plans at Allan’s.
m
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Cuarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
Used the
World Over
m
m
MOTOR
...CARS
m
“And You Should
Freely Use
pratura
BORATED TALCUM
If you want ‘Baby’ to get rid
of that troublesome eruption.
Give him his baths regularly
with plenty of “Mennen’s”
after, and his skin will clear up in a few days.
Why do Doctors and Nurses advise Mothers to use
m
Mermen’s Borated Talcum?
Because
they know it is the purest,'and hence the best.
There are many kinds of Talcum, but the
finest, smoothest and costliest comes from Italy—from the
best mines. That is the talcum “Mennen” employs.
By a secret process it is refined to the highest degree
—pure boric acid (a mild disinfectant) is combined with
it in the right proportion, and it is faintly scented
Mennen’s Talcum can now be obtained in a variety of
tints and perfumes, all made according to the famous
Mennen formula, as follows: Borated, Violet, Sen Yang,
Cream Tint (a rich cream color), Flesh Tint (not a rouge,
but a delicate pink talcum) and Talcum for Men. For
sale by more than 100,000 dealers throughout the world.
INFERIOR TALCUMS ARE DEAR AT ANY PRICE. USE ONLY
THE BEST—“MENNEN’S”
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
m
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
mm
rn 4W AA IL
[PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS ahi WORKMANSHIP)
%
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
i
i|
/ a
r
THE “SKANDIA” IN WEST AUSTRALIA.
PEARLING SCHOONER—3O-h.p. “SKANDIA.”
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loft ns Street*
SYDNEY.
Business Notices.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
tiilt;:::::::
Used since 15M6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton's ’’-—refuse all substitutes
MURPHY'S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External deeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCK’S
.MALTED MILK
A
" r 'WT3i«^'
SVmTiiArtuar l
Mai T»B
m
At
Is
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—when you feel “any-how”
—when your nerves are “on
edge -when the least exer-
tion tires you—you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a "run-down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
[TV
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, nevy
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘ Wincarnis ’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COI.EMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘ Wincarnis' from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct to.
Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 233, Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“I had eczema on the shin. The
trouble began with a small red rash,
which increased until larger than the
size of a half-crown. It was very red and
inflamed and was a source of annoyance
to me, as it used to itch and burn very
much at times. I could have scratched
it to pieces. I had it for about six
months. After using Cuticura Ointment
for three weeks the eczema disappeared
and has not returned and it is three
months ago now since I used the Cuti-
cura Ointment.” (Signed) Sydney T.
Smith, 18 Wrights St., E. Prahran,
Vic., September 3, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint
ment to heal.) Address .post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sola throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
,SP£CMUS£
TWO
L/AIES
5
0 s
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZC fIONTER S T NEWCASTLE
m
If . any illustration appearing in The
Btjixetin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEV
CARTRI DCESs
Always Reliable
m
N
I
S 3
m
a
in
mm
ELEY‘Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
cartridge 4 loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Powder
and li( s oz. shot.
ELEY 32
s. & w.
, Revolver
m
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
ELEY
25
Automatic
mm
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only}
ELEY BROS.L® LONDON
* i #
# Jr
l
1
10
9
9
8
ivestrtax
BIG
BEN
7
5
6
Is Now 15/-
Big Ben watched the
metals for his various
parts, double and
treble in price.
He finds it difficult to
secure at any price, sup-
plies people formerly
were anxious to sell
him.
He’s paid extra fare in
the way of freight for his
ocean voyage. He’s had
the rate raised on his
insurance while crossing
the water.
His makers, and his
distributors, have helped
him to stand this increased
expense so he would not
be forced to raise his
price.
Big Ben has reached the point
where it is necessary for him to
ask more for his services.
As long as present conditions oon*
tinue, his price is 15/-.
Big Ben is seven inches tall, well
built, handsome punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful,deep : toned voice—large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watchlike escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for five minutes or in-
termittently for ten. At all clock dealers.
La Salle, 111, U.S.A. WeStem Clock Go. Makers of Westclox
OtherWestclox: Baby Ben, ij/-; A merica, 6/-; Sleep-Meter, 8/6; Boyproof Watch, 8/6.
m
m
o BlLo*
'll
ALEXANDER
“More worlds to conquer,” sighed the
Macedonian conqueror. “More miles con-
quered,” sighs the “Plume” motorist happily
as he looks at his speedometer. With
“Plume” in the tank you secure more miles
to the gallon. The energy is there also for
pace and pull.
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting—Sweet Running — More Miles
“Plume” is the spirit that drives your car
farthest and fastest, taking more air than
other spirits and keeping *your engine cool.
Gives a speedy “pick-up,” is easy starting
and -ensures a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
The selection of your car took much
consideration. As you selected a car to
suit you, select an oil to suit your car.
Write for free Recommendation Chart,
which tells you which grade of Gargoyle
Mobiloil is correct for your car. “A grade
for each type of Motor.” For sale at all
dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealan
m
m
m
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will Quote you price for it.
The Inky Way.
T. D. Mutch, newly-elected M.L.A. for
Botany (Sydney), is the first active member
of the A.J.A. to win a seat. He is a young
man, 32, with very strong convictions. One
of these led him into the front of the anti-
conscription battle of October 2S, and he
helped to draft the resolution at the P.L.L.
Conference which fixed the attitude of Labor
in N. S. Wales. Mutch was 16 when he
started to earn a crust in the shearing-sheds
on the Lachlan, and he was afterwards
“travelling” mate with Henry Lawson. Says
Henry: “He was the straightest mate I ever
had ; and I made him smoke a pipe and once
got two medium beers into him. But it took
me three years to do it.” When he isn’t
writing or saving the country Mutch puts
in time as a trustee of the Public Library.
* * * *
Besides T. D. Mutch, who enters N. S.
Wales Assembly from the Worker office,
there is another member of the Labor party
who was a “gentleman of the press” at least
a little while. ' Soma 12 years ago the
A.N.A. was being b'Oomed in Sydney with the
object of outrivalling the Victorian body.
A local patriot reckoned to give it a further
boost. and established a weekly—the
Gazette —with Simon Hickey, present mem-
ber for Alexandria, in charge. Andy
Maguire, formerly of the Picturesque
Atlas, was general secretary and censor,
and lie cut deep. However the weekly ran
out within the year and shed tears over
itself in the final issue in this v T ise: —
Till other times and other men
Divine thy soul aright,
Keep still thy voice, forget, forgive—
Good-night, dead thing, good-night!
“Peg Leg”: Let me introduce Lacey Per-
cival, Sydney’s most experienced moving-
picture reporter. In December. 1914, he
tOok his machine up to Liverpool camp to
photograph some Light Horse manoeuvres.
At 11 a.m. he was knocked down by a
cavalry charge which he was taking head-
on from behind a small barricade. He
spent an hour in hospital getting repaired,
and. with his head and shoulders; in ban-
dages. struggled back to town to develop the
film. By five o’clock he was putting the
finishing touches on his scoop, and at seven
that same evening the Sydney theatres
screened the film he had taken* right up to
the' moment the horses galloped over him.
Another good 'performance was to take
several hundred feet of Lauder's arrival in
Sydney, and get the films published on the
screens •by three o’clock that afternoon.
Every year he develops the Melbourne Cup
pictures on the train which leaves the
southern capital an hour or so after the
race is run. The films are invariably
showing at the Sydney theatres by one
o’clock on the following afternoon —500
miles from the event, 21 hours later. Get
out of his way!
* » * *
Henry Hele has been congratulated by
his Adelaide Kegister colleagues on having
been on the staff for 61 years. The
Begister remarks airily that this makes
him the senior on the staff, but adds that
there are several more of nearly 60 years’
standing, and “dozens of others” who have
Tteen in the office from 35 years to half a
century.
“Copy Boy’G .T. Bull’s Society of Authors
and the Publishers’ Association have com-
bined in a protest against the prevalence of
the “charity book.” The absence of re-
muneration is not the only trouble, for these
books compete with the authors’ own wares,
and seriously affect ordinary book sales,
especially at Christmas. Most of the leading
writers and artists have agreed not to con-
tribute to any “charity bo ,k” which has not
been approved of by the Society of Authors
and the Publishers' Association. This
arrangement caused ’All Caine, who has been
editor of a couple of “patriotic” books, to
resign from the council of the Society of
Authors, and incidentally to help himself
to a fine advt. by writing to the press set-
ting forth his views on the matter, with
copious references to his own achievements.
* * #■ % *•
A veteran Australian theatrical critic has
been showing bis friends a letter from his
devoted wife, who is away in the hills. “I
have just read your criticism of ,” she
wrote. “You are not taking your liver pills
regularly.”
HE HAD IDEALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yours is creative work,” he said and bought another
drink ;
He was an aspirant unto the ways of pen-and-ink.
He had ideals, large and bright, he saw the thing to
do;
Wherefore, he said, he’d take the job and put the
business through.
He saw that Capital was wrong, that Worth alone
was right;
Yet honest Worth was underneath in every kind of
fight.
He saw the Wicked Man increase his store of goods
and gear,
The while the Honest Toiler lacked the wherewithal
for beer.
He saw the Gilded Pharisee front-seated in the
church ;
He saw the Meek and Lowly ever left back in the
lurch.
He saw the Wrong triumphant, and the Right
wrecked in defeat;
He saw the Good Man’s Widow selling papers in the
street.
So he would take his place, he said, within the
ranks, and fight
With his good lance —a fountain-pen—a battle for
the Right.
I, too, had dreams, as bright as his; I, also, looked
ahead.
Alas! those dreams return no more, those dear ideals
are dead.
/ wield a milk-tipped pen which writes no wrathy
word nor rash —
He does the weekly stock reports for what keeps him
in hash.
N.SAV.
M. BAKER.


The House for Light—
for Electric Lights.
V
:
tX'
: V* ■
i'AS*.
v
f,
t/. HMm
Of course you Know it’s
Dan Ks. Yes! we Have
Splendid Selections of
the very latest Electric
Light Fittings, as well
as Eights and Fitters*
Accessories.
Massive Fittings for the
Indirect and Semi-
indirect Systems —bold
and exceedingly band-
some styles.
Also all tbe latest in
Gas Lighting Systems
as well as modern
Fittings.
Owing to early buying
our StocKs are good
and Prices very much
in Buyers* favor. Call
and insped.
“ DANKS ”
Otherwise John Danks 8 Son Pty. Ltd.,
“THE HOUSE FOR LIGHT AND HEAT,”
324 Pitt Street, nr. Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
391 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
m
To the Man with Turret Lathe
Work and No Turret Lathe
Or with one turret lathe, and work enough for two parts at a time.
Or with a 9-inch turret lathe for an 18-inch job.
You don’t like to give up to two or three hundred pounds for a turret lathe.
You can’t compete successfully with an engine or speed lathe, or a turret lathe
that’s too small. You want the work, and you’ve got to do it in the cheapest
way for your own product.
What are you going to do about it? Going to let the work get away? Or let
it cost you so much that you can’t find anything that looks like profits with a
magnifying glass?
Keep a Baker Improved Turret Head on hand, or maybe two of them—one
for an engine lathe and one for a speed lathe. Pick out the lathe you want
to do the work on, turn it into a turret lathe by putting a Baker head on it.
and get busy.
That is the way to do turret lathe work without a turret lathe —the way to do it
just as well, just as quickly, and just as profitably as you can do it on any
turret lathe you know.
Baker’s Improved Turret Head is made in two sizes— No. 1, for engine
lathes up to ISin.. swing is Tin. in diameter and weighs kol-b. No. 2, for
speed lathes, weighs about 301 b.
No. 1, £6 12s. No. 2, £4 10s.
AJ^Rlfersons)
Proprietary Limited
Machinery, Iron and Tool Merchants,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
VICTORIA.
Bathurst Street, SYDNEY*
N. S. WALES.
~ v:.V<.
■ ■••••■ :i .r-
-<'?*ig#7sS
fIUvVUV.
?**>;
Sporting
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
m
“A marvel at the price."
Bl. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2ilb
(Postage—N.S.1V., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
13/6
mm
“Splendid for all small game."
B31. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
lakes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, 511b.
take-down. Carriage paid
Model,
magazine
hardened
90/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
da
“Suitable for small game and target shooting.”
B5. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 411b; slide action, A SI,,
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
m
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
B23. Savage Single-shot ltifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4ilb.; 30/“
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights v /
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
35/-
ii *dm
H
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
B13. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. refund barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 2:
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about oilb. .
: 55/-
m
“Simple and extra strong in construction .
BIO. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b jf
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.) i j\J
“Sure Catch” Anglers’ Guide & Price List Post Free.
m
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
B2. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre. R.F.
round barrel. 20,in.. chambered for Ion" rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open ooi/i
front and rear sights; weight, 41b. dt*£rj\J
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
New Edition Sports and Firearms List—Post Free.
mm
One of the liardest-hittirig 22 cal. rifles on the market.
B37. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 10, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight 521b.
Delivered. dLO
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 30/- 1000; 3/- 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
m
A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.
B36. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
31odel 12, '£t calibre, solid breech. side ejector,
straight grip. 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short. 12 long or
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open _ .
front sights: weight. 4Mb Delivered 55/*"
SUNOL TOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
lid. post free.
m
The rifle to select for your oivn Use.
B22. “The Savage” Repeating Hammerless Rifle,
1914 Model, 22 calibre, rim fire. 24in. octagon barrel.
slide action, demountable, pistol grip, handles short, long or long rifle cartridges;
magazine holds 20 short, 17 long or 15 long rifle cartridges; lengrli
over all 40in., taken apart 271in.; weight, about r>Jib Delivered. O
mm
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
Bll. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2|lb
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight....
(Postage—X.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
Y ew edition illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl). nlso
Catch” ■ Anglers’ Guide (Catalogue B2), Post Free to any address. Write
or both lists. They are money savers.
Model,
21 -
26/-
“Sure
for one
1C
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
AND TOBACCONISTS
n»~an
City Sports Depot
119 King St, also at
Tletvcasile l Brisbane


If You Have a Bad Leg:
This will Interest You.
You cannot afford to take chances with a bad leg. If you have a sore on the leg, whether
it be an old one which has been troubling you for many months or years, or whether it is one
of only recent date. Which refuses to heal, you should give it prompt and careful attention.
• :-
:v:
■
1
Mrs. HUTCHINGS (from a photo.).
It is particularly in the treat-
ment of severe sores of this kind
that Rexona has been used with
such success.
The letter below was entirely
unsolicited, and was written to
us by Mrs. Hutchings, Main Road,
Woonona, South Coast, N.S.W.
Read what Mrs. Hutchings says:
“I am writing to you
expressing how grateful
I am to Rexona Oint-
ment. I had read so
much about the cures it
has effected that I felt it
was my duty to try it. I
had had a bad leg for
eight years, and had been
under several doctors to
no effect, and after six
weeks’ treatment with
Rexona I was perfectly
cured, and that is two
years ago. I always keep
a tin of Rexona in the
house. I am writing
this for you to make
whatever use you like of
it. I am sending you a
photo of myself to pub-
lish.
“Yours sincerely,
“(Sgd.) MRS. HUTCHIINGS.”
DON’T NEGLECT A BAD LEG.
TRY THE REXONA TREATMENT.
Try the Rexona treatment if you have a bacl leg, and note the result. Tirst
carefully wash the sore with warm water and Rexona Soap, then apply Rexona
gentlv over the sore, binding: with a soft cloth. Repeat this treatment night and
morning. If the sore is an old one, a course of Laxo-Tonic Tills taken at the same
time is of the greatest help in producing prompt results. No one with a bad leg
can afford not to give the Rexona treatment a trial. The price of Rexona is I/O, or
large pots, holding nearly four times the quantity of the 1/6 size, which are soul
at 3/- each. Rexona Soap is 1/- per tablet, and Laxo-Tonic Pills are sold in two-
size quantities at 1/- and 3/-
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
m
m
m
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
T\o YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
U whenyou consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appeti
and depression —he is debilitated. , , , j
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron 'Jelloids,' The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood. _
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished bloodl ean be
‘‘made rich and good by means of Iron Jelloids the
“most effective and desirable treatment.
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IR ON ‘JELLOIDS' No. 2 A.
For Ancemia in Women . . ■ IROR ■•(offline- at° ' *'
For Growing Children . . • IRON JELLOIDS No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/ .
VO
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
s
a
BOVRIL
increases
the defensive forces of the body.
To keep fit drink Bovril.
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
To Inverell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HER passing sojourn makes jou •
Your happy stars above Her glov .
She lights your households, breathes
your air
And walks your highways to and 10 >
And thus it is that now I know.
Though where you are I could not tt 1
Or knew your name a while ago,
There is no town like Inverell.
Since She is there, Scamander s town
Vud daughter Tiber’s fade away :
The sapphire dropped from Neptune s ciown,
Burning beneath the siren bay
Where Sydney loiters, pales to gray: (
Sydney and Rome and Troy, farewell;
liomance re-born becomes to-day
The castellan of Inverell!
Vnd now* I know the region where
Moly and Ardath blossoms are,
And amaranth that healeth care;
And whence that dark Plutonic car .
Rapt ripe Persephone afar
From violets and asphodel;
Yea, Buddha’s lotus lilies star
The limpid pools of Inverell!
And Inverell hath fairy rings
With queens I loved v T ho pout, I wis,
Whene’er my frequent fancy flings
Upon the winds to Her a kiss;
Nor doth such elfin country miss
Cromlech and dolmen, while the well
Rejuvenating springs from this
Abode of Eros, Inverell!
The gum-tree leaves She sent me seem
From earthly pigment virgin-free,
As if o’er some Olympian stream
Long had they fluttered dreamily:
And Fancy whispers, “Now you see
The flames, as ancient stories tell,
Prometheus stole from Heaven, to lie
The gum-tree tips of Inverell!”
A country paper read by chance
Told of a chapel hidden there —
And, straight, the censer of Romance
Swung her enchantment everywhere,
Weaving me cloisters out of air,
Cathedral old and holy well,
Yea, Launcelot and Guinever
Intoning nones at Inverell!
And when I read some burning words
An Austral son of Liberty
Said there to drive away the birds
That would pollute our altars, he
No simple workman was to me,
But (was it only from Her spell?)
Transmigrant that we should be free,
Demosthenes —in Inverell!
() lords of music, do not say
.My town of dream is but the dress
An upstart trull of yesterday
Agog for pig-eyed Trade’s caress
Attires her in for mean success !
Say not that name I love so well
Covers a smudge of squalidness
Upon the landscape—lnverell!
A letter whispers as I write
That Inverell my dream repays—
That song of stream by wooded height
And quiet convent’s hymn of praise
Mingle with legends of the days
When “Thunderbolt” found citadel
And Sherwood in the shielding maze
Of crag and Bush by Inverell!
’Tis strange that she of our desire
Transmutes all leaden things to gold,
Tips sober clouds with living fire,
And leaves Her village aureoled.
Else nameless in the common mould
For ever ! Why doth Love compel
Half-smiling Reason’s eyes behold
Temple and tower in Inverell?
If loyal eyes o’er Mecca see
Their prophet’s aura softly shine,
Or still on lapping Galilee
Reserve the print of feet divine,
Or through lona’s mist define
Columba’s form. Columba’s cell.
Forgive these eyes that faithful twine
Lilies of Love with Inverell!
She who my boat from sirens bare,
And whirlpool wan and Scylla. free.
Who lit my feet through Fen Despair,
And taught my clouded eyes to see
The Burning Bush in every tree,
Within that town a space did dwell —-
And that is why it is to me
Tiie sacred town of Inverell!
VICTORIA.
BERNARD O'DOWD.
Miss Minks, War Worker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MISS MINKS finished her prepara-
tions. Having put up the new bed
in the spare room which she had
never before used she arranged the pictures
on the mantelpiece, the quaint ornaments on
the dressing-table, and refixed the bows on
the bands that held the white, newl.v-starched
curtains; and all the work was a delightful
labor of love. Then, as an afterthought,
she went out to the garden, gathered a bowl
of flowers and placed them amongst the
ornaments.
After that she prepared herself for the
excitement of the day. Chaste were Miss
Minks’s notions; and yet. to do honor to
the occasion, she had carefully placed beauti-
fully-bowed ribbons in her lingerie. Her
dress was the new one, painfully home-'
made, yet glorious. With the extremest care
she put the final touches to her hair, selected
and adjusted her riband belt, and placed
her hat on her head. With an air that was
almost agitation she turned from tin* door,
as she was going out, to see by the glass
if her appearance was fitting.
Miss Minks was going to meet her lonely
soldier.
Miss Minks's life had been a drab and
solitary one; and the war was a red splash
in the monotony of its quieter colors. Once,
long ago, she had had what might be called
wan glimmerings of lovers, who pressed her
hand fur a time, or even, may it be said,
put an arm around her; but protesta-
tions had all been vague and indefinite. Miss
Minks might have done better under moie
favorable conditions; but her people were
a Superior Family, and they gave a chill to
the wooer. Her circumstances had left her
with a home of her own and an extreme y
moderate income upon which to support her
loneliness; and she hardly realised that it
had robbed her of much better things.
But, after she had lived many years in
a grey fashion to which she had become
reconciled, the war suddenly gave her sur-
roundings a red tone which was exlnlaiating.
It woke in her blood something which the
opportunity to do work for the soldiers sat-
isfied. If anyone had told her that the
satisfaction that pleased her was only the
gratification of the feminine instinct to
serve men. she would have felt outiaged-
insulted. To her it was the answer to the
call of patriotism. .
She knitted socks; she was a member of
the Red Cross, the Blue Muffler Society, the
Convalescent Hospital-Shoe Club and alii
the other organisations which sought to
provide comfort for soloiers. She was a
lay member who wanted only the joy of
working.
Then somebody suggested the Lonely
Soldiers’ Society, and she entered gladly on
the task of writing letters. It was a new
enjoyment; but it met with disappointments.
Her first case was a Private Blisters, about
whom Corporal William Masters had written
that he “felt sorry for the poor beggar, who
didn’t get any letters sent to him.” _ She
sent three newsy, cheerful letters to Blisters,
interspersed with Christian advice, but got
no answer. She did not know that Blisters
said, “Blime, ’ere’s some old tart writin’ to
me!” and was much tickled by the religious
and sentimental phrases. She believed that
her lonely soldier had died the death of a
hero, and mourned him as lost. Other dis-
appointments came her way, including that
of the soldier who said bitterly that he had
a wife, and was at the war for the sake of
peace. But eventually she found her soldier.
Martin Trebolt responded to her letters
with a painstaking zeal. He answered with
minuteness all her many queries about bully
beef, the chaplain’s sermons, the trenches,
the Turkish prisoners and so on, before he
started his own personal paragraph. In
these he described himself as a lonely wan-
derer who was grateful for her correspond-
ence. Then he was silent for a while until a
letter, in a nurse’s hand, but signed by him-
self, said that he was in hospital and
described the nature of his wounds with
seeming light-heartedness.
And now her soldier was returning,
wounded.
A troop of soldiers, laughing, happy,
apparently little the worse for war-wear,
filed off the ship. One of them, searching
the wharf for friends, politely offered to
show her Trebolt when he was brought off.
As she was sympathising, mentally, with a
man who came with a halting, wounded gait,
bandaged arm and bandaged eyes, being half
helped, half carried, off the ship, he suddenly
pointed. A spasm shot through the tender
heart of Miss Minks. She ran towards the
wounded soldier.
“Oh. my poor 'Martin!” she cried. “I
am Mary Minks!”
Although the wounded man’s face had
been smiling with the forced, fixed smile of
one who insists upon being cheerful in the
teeth of misfortunes, the look that came over
it when she spoke was an altogether different
thing. There was a sudden glow in his
cheeks and his head lifted with a lilt. His
uninjured hand shot out. groping for hers,
and was grasped instantly.
“You have been very good to me,” he
said.. “It is very good of you to come down
to see me. I have nobody else.” His words,
although there was no stressing of his
troubles in the tone, gave a simple -hint of
terrible loneliness which brought tears in
Miss Minks's eyes. She insisted that he
should go home with her. so that she might
look after him. It was not a trouble, but a
privilege; she could not fight, but she could
do her duty to her country by tending
those who had suffered. There was very
little difficulty in arranging matters, for
Miss Minks was prepared to take all
responsibility in regard to her soldier.
Lying in his clean white bed, in the fresh,
sweet-scented room. Martin felt a delightful
content in his condition, a content rich
with fragrant dreams of the kind woman
whom he could not see. but whose touch was
so soft, cool and gentle as she adjusted liis
bandages or ministered to his wants. The
scent of the flowers she daily placed upon his
dressing-table delighted his nostrils, and
there was the sweetness of lavender about his
sheets and the very bandages he wore. As
Miss Minks sat and talked to him, giving
him the news of the war and asking him
questions about his experiences, he heard the
click of her knitting-needles b sy over more
socks for more soldiers. When she went
out it was only to do some other work for
other soldiers: and having made every pro-
vision for Martin’s comfort while she was
gone, she hurried back, bringing cigarettes
and fruit for him. Picturing her at her
knitting, Martin saw the perfect woman,
beautiful and kind ; fresh, sweet and young
as the spirit of a rose garden.
“I would like to have my eyes again,” he
said, “if it is only to see the lady who is so
kind to me.”
Miss Minks smiled, placidly.
"But your sight is not gone,” she said.
“You will be able to see again. Only you
must have patience.”
“Thanks to you,” he said, reaching out
his hand to grasp hers.
In the grey mist of her years it had
hardly seemed necessary for Miss Minks to
set aside any store for a rainy day; yet
from a habit of frugality, because her wants
were few, she had done so. Now her savings
came in usefully, and she expended them
gladly. She engaged a leading eye specialist
—who. however, when he found how the
case stood, refused to charge the fees which
were the privilege of his reputation—to cure
lipr wounded soldier’s worst affliction. And
shortly he gave hope of an early cure. Her
soldier would see again, although his eye-
sight might never be perfect.
(Continued on next none.)


IS IT KIDNEY TROUBLE?
“Nothing Much.” —This is what the
kidney sufferer will tell you when you
ask him what is the matter. You can
see how miserable and hopeless he looks;
his skin is yellow, his eyes puffy and
swollen ; he is afraid of his life to move
quickly or to bend. He is never free
from a pain or burning ache in the back;
now and then becomes so dizzy that
he nearly falls; his heart acts strangely.
He has bladder and urinary troubles,
rheumatic pains, and is always feeling
tired and worn out; he is -sleepless and
restless.
“Nothing Much!”—He little knows
how serious his trouble is, and how
every day draws him nearer the fatal
Bright’s disease or dropsy. Take your
trouble in time, and begin with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, the reliable
kidney and bladder medicine, at the first
sign of anything wrong. Read how
thoroughly the Sydney people who
speak here have been cured; it will
encourage you.
Every Picture
Te/ts
A
Story
■
m
&**
Ml
I
V
Tired out from morning till night —
Head had —heart had —rheumatic and dropsical-
Have you suspected your kidneys?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Backache and Kidney
Trouble.
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mr. J. H. Pelgrave, 172 Oxford Street, Paddington,
Sydney, writes: —“l think it is my duty to say, for the
benefit of other sufferers from weak kidneys and urinary
trouble, that I have found nothing so effectual for these
ailments as Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I hope
the publishing of this testimonial will be the means of
benefiting many. Nearly all my life I have taken all
sorts of medicines, in the hope of finding a cure, but
none of them did me any good. I have also been under
medical men, but their treatment also failed to benefit
live in any way. I was advised to take a course of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I am delighted to tell
you these pills cured me, and I feel in better health
now than I have done for years. 1 cannot praise this
remedy sufficiently for the good it has done me.”
Four years later, Mrs. Pelgrave says:—“Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured my husband of kidney trouble
over four years ago. and he has still the same good
opinion of this grand remedy.”
Mrs. A. G. Cox, 79 Garden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
says:—“For a long time I suffered from kidney trouble,
the worst symptoms being severe pains in my back, bad
headaches, dizzy attacks, disordered and a
dull, tired feeling that I could not shake off. The pain
in my back was often almost unbearable, and every
movement seemed to increase my suffering. As time
went on I 'got worse instead of better, nothing I took
doing me the least good. I was really far from well,
and badly in need of a medicine that would cure me. At
last I heard of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so I got
a bottle to try them. They proved to be the very thing
I wanted, for after taking three bottles of these pills I
was quite cured, and I have had no return of kidney
trouble since.”
Four years later Mrs. Cox says:—“My cure has proved
a permanent one, for I have not had a sign of kidney
trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills'cured me
four years'ago.”
mm
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
m
Martin received the news with a strange
eagerness, and the days passed slowly,
became almost tiresome in the deferment of
his hopes, the greatest of all of which was
that he would be able to look into the face of
his benefactress. To her, however, the day
when her soldier would see was fraught with
a vague apprehension. - She knew, from the
things he sometimes said, that lie regarded
her as beautiful: and looking at her face in
the glass, trying to add a touch here and
there to her withered appearance, she sighed.
Before the day arrived when the bandages
were to be removed Martin had recovered
from his other afflictions. His arm, which
finished at the wrist in a stump, did not
trouble him, and he could limp about the
house with the aid of a crutch.
He was in a half-darkened room when the
doctor stripped away tlie covering. The
morning had been full of pent-up ex-
citement, and he was trembling when the
moment arrived. With the removal of the
last bandage a sharp pain stabbed into his
eyes as the dim light struck them, and even
when the pain passed only a blurring vision
came to him. Then slowly it cleared.
“How is it?” asked the specialist.
“I can see,” answered Martin almost under
his breath ; and then he looked eagerly past
the doctor at Mary Minks.
A queer little cold shiver ran through her
heart as she felt the eagerness of his face
change abruptly to pained disappointment.
But if there was disappointment he -forced
it away, lest it should hurt her. lie took
her hand in his.
“I owe you everything,” he said, simply.
“I have only done what is a pleasure ter
me,” she said.
“Shortly I will be able to get work,” he
went on. “And tlidn I will be able to say
what I want to say to you.”
He could see her breast fluttering as she
drooped her head.
“You mustn’t be silly!” she said, softly.
“And you must still take things easily. I
will have to go now for a while.”
He was glad at the moment that she put
him off. He had grown to love the ideal he
had created ; and he felt, somehow, that the
woman who had tended him so sweetly ex-
pected him to love her. Had she been as
beautiful and youthful as he had imagined—
even her jesting references to a “poor old
maid” had not shattered the illusion —he
would have felt that it was asking her to
make something of a sacrifice to marry a
maimed man; and yet he knew that she
expected him to ask her, and he was eager
to fulfil her expectation. Now, with his
disappointment fresh upon him, lie felt that
it was no less a duty of gratitude ; but it
seemed as though some of the sacrifice fell
upon him. Visions of the bright young girl
with whom he had quarrelled before he went
away, temporarily shut out by the gloom of
his blind days, came back to him, troubling
him with a sense of renunciation.
And yet, as he told himself, if Mary Minks
was plain, advanced in years, lonely and
aching for love, the duty imposed by grati-
tude was more insistent than ever.
Being able now to look after himself he
sought lodgings, for he could not ask Miss
Minks to accept any monetary return for
her kindness, and his independence forbade
him any longer to live upon her charity,
Then, securing his discharge, he passed
back into civil employment at his old desk,
Gradually, as lie got thoroughly well, he
noticed a cooling of Mary’s manner to him.
A sort of old-maidish stillness superseded
the gentle tenderness which she had shown
while he was helpless. The thought stayed
with him that she was showing her natural
offence at his delay in asking her to marry.
. He had caught sight of his old sweetheart
in the city- and with a spring in his heart
had hurried his steps towards her. As he
did so, he apologised to his conscience that
Miss Minks had grown cool, and did not
care; but Conscience, refusing to be satisfied.
had presented the other view. He checked
himself suddenly.
“I am an ungrateful dog, ’ he muttered,
She was writing when he arrived,
"Toil don’t mind my finishing this letter?”
she said, reseating ■tierself.
Re approached and leaned over her.
■'Mary,” he said, "you have been so good
to me. I am only half a man, but. I can
earn my salt and look after you. Will you
ma rry me?” ...
khe looked up at lnm in a startled way,
her breast heaving.
. Oh, you mustn t talk like that!” she
cri ,®"v
‘ Bfit I Tcaaf you to marry me, lie said.
Oh, I am sorry, she said, hurriedly. "I
Tdn t suppose you would tlnnk ot things
like that. I—l don t want to marry; I am
too old. ’
. He moved backward, astounded, not know-
mg whether he felt relieved or not.
i^t. writing to Jack Travers,” she
went . on quickly, as it to stop him from
renewing the subject. My new lonely
soldier, you know. And he has been
wounded, too, and is coming out, I expect.
I ai P j us t writing to say that the room is all
iea ß,’ ana l am wai t in g 1° care for him
ne ?r ~ . ... . , ,
Martins first feeling had been one of
relief; but he was a tangle of emotions when
he went away, lie l°°kcd back at the house
with a. Reeling fa something smarting in lus
aeaia ;, ,
. Mhos this Jack Travers, lie muttered,
jealously. God . but I believe I love Mary,
after all.
HAMER.
“XYZ”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I REGARD it as unfortunate that in the
height of the smallpox boom my face
should have broken out in a rash. Feople
used to look at me suspiciously in the tram,
and move as far away from me as they could
get; and several barbers refused to shave me.
It was no use my explaining that my face
did that every year whether there happened to
be smallpox about or not. Everyone demanded
that I should be vaccinated. The landlady
said that she lost two prospective lodgers
through my face appearing at a window
while she was talking to them on the veran-
dah. The firm I work for wanted to add ‘ all
our staff are vaccinated!” in large type
underneath their advertisements, and I was
threatened with the instant sack if I did not
get a sore arm before the end of the week.
As I already have several large birth-marks,
various freckles the size of small comets, and
an old-man mole with whiskers, all on my
left arm, I did not feel at all pleased to have
to add to the collection; but I simply had to
have it done, and that was all about it.
I resolved to have it done privately. A
friend of mine who is clever with chemicals,
and spends his spare time messing about
with them in a loft over an abandoned ’bus
stable, offered to do me in exchange for a
bottle of beer. I went round to see him that
evening.
On pushing his door open I thought at
first that he was out, but all at once I caught
sight of him peering at me from behind a
heavy slab of iron which leaned against the
wall. The room was full of pale-green smoke
and an abominable stench. I asked him why
he was hiding behind the slab of iron, and
he said he was waiting for an explosion to
occur. He advised me to go away. But I
reminded him of his promise to vaccinate
me, and sat down on a chair and commenced
to read the paper. I felt languid.
All at once there was a deafening report, a
blinding flash of lightning, and eight heavy
objects, the size of croquet balls, hit the ceil-
ing and bounced backwards and forwards
across the room in a manner suggestive of
billiards.
This was all very well in its way, of
course, but it wasn’t vaccination, and vacci-
nation was what I had come round for.
My chemical friend seemed greatly excited.
The perspiration poured off him, and he said
that I had had a very narrow escape from
death.
When he had calmed down a little, I
reminded him again that I needed his assist-
ance, as promised, in the matter of vacci-
nation. My constant references to vaccina-
tion seemed to irritate him; and once I
caught him smiling, as I thought, in a most
malignant way. But he was not at all rude.
In fact, he seemed, all at once, to be most
anxious to oblige me. Instead of appearing
disinterested, as hitherto, he became alert,
and his manner was eager.
Going behind a screen, he reappeared pre-
sently with a large glass syringe full of a
brown liquid. The syringe, I noticed, was
labelled “XYZ.” I asked him whether this
was the lymph, and he said “Yes.” I replied
that I always thought lymph was white.
“For some reason or other, brown lymph
always stays brown,” he said. I thought this
a remarkable answer.
I pulled up my sleeve, and after making a
hole in my arm with a gimlet, my friend put
the nozzle of the syringe in the hole and
squirted half a pint of the brown fluid.
I felt strange immediately. The sensations
were peculiar. I had a sort of feeling that I
had just been trodden on by an elephant; was
covered with hair like a doormat; had four
legs and a tail; and hoofs instead of feet. I
also felt a g/eat desire to snort; to keep lift-
ing one foot off the ground; and my eyes
seemed to be bleary. My knees gave me the
impression of being several sizes too large,
worn out and terribly languid. I was con-
vinced that nothing short of a smack with a
whip would induce me to move an inch. I
also wanted to lie down on my friend’s sofa
for ever; but although he seemed pleased
with the effects of the vaccination as I
described them to him, he refused me the use
of his sofa, and advised me to go home.
I had not got more than a few paces on
my way when I heard a snort behind me,
and a voice remarked that it was a nice
night, but that what one needed most was
some chaff.
I looked over my shoulder and perceived
that I was followed by an elderly-looking
horse. Curiously enough, although I had
never tasted chaff, I felt that I would like
some immensely—more than anything else in
the world. So I turned round and followed
the elderly-looking horse across the yard
towards a tumble-down shed. All the
while I felt as though I had four legs
instead of two, a tail to wag, and two large
hairy ears, which kept on falling forward.
These sensations were singular, but not
unpleasant.
I nosed about in a bin, and found quite a
lot of chaff left. I ate it greedily, had a
long drink of water at a trough, and, after
bidding the elderly horse a polite good-night,
lay down in the dirt in a contented frame of
mind.
Next morning I awoke with a bad cold,
felt very moth-eaten and dirty, and went
home. All my other sensations of over-night
had left me. Yet one peculiarity remained.
Ever since then, whenever I hear a door or
anything slam, I start forward in spite of
myself. , ,
Several days after the events narrated I
received a letter from my chemical friend
offering to re-vaccinate me. He had discov-
ered, it seemed, that in my case he had made
a mistake.
“I find,” he said, “that my squirt con-
tained ‘XYZ,’ instead of ‘XY3.’ ‘XYZ’ is
an extract of ’bus horse that I have been
using in a different experiment.”
I was very much annoyed, and wrote back
to say that our acquaintanceship must now
come to an end.
LES ROBINSON.
Widowed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The father sleeps in Flanders,
His gallant heart is cold j
The son plays in the garden,
A laughing boy and bold.
That candid, youthful forehead
Ne'er met my husband’s view ;
His father’s manly presence
My darling never knew.
But I —how blest I count me,
For in my bosom true
I hold, secure for ever,
The knowledge of the two!
Queensland.
F. BORN.


Hf £S tl-jQi (Morse) Chain Drives
m
K;. ; ,
m
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington,
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE ROCKER-JOINT eliminates fric-
tion, and as there is no slip, power losses
are reduced to a minimum. Our chain
business is constantly increasing, prov-
ing that engineers are realising the
advantages to be gained by using
ROCKER-JOINT CHAINS.
Ask for Booklet 8.M.310 when making your
inquiry.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
tl
m
mm
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves sper cent, on
Automobile
Fire insurance .
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 6!fc>. ; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
TO OPCRAIC ,
.?uP«iU»ci.e rou»?
•WflK UK* A PUMP,
BRC OKS
Saddles are the most popular because they
have always been the most comfortable, and
they will ever remain supreme by virtue of
the unique experience which such widespread
popularity affords
the makers.
OF ALL
DEALERS
WO-1
o/s
frS&COt
55*
m
m
mm
mm
Makes your milk pails look like silver
Bon Ami is made of a soft,
white, crumbly mineral —
softer than ordinary scour-
ing soap, so it will not
scratch.
Its biggest field is for mir-
rors and windows, but it is
also wonderful for pol-
ished metals.
9 For' all the
Finer Kinds of
Po]ishlng& Cleaning
It contains no acid or poison
or oil so it is perfectly safe
to use on milk pails. You
have no idea how brilliant
your milk pails can shine
until you try Bon Ami on
them.
Ordinary scouring soap will
scratch polished tin and
make it harder to clean
the next time, but Bon Ami
keeps the original, easy-to-
clean, smooth, unscratched
surface.
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it”
“Indispensable”
—a word largely used in these days—may be said to accurately express,
in so any single word can, what is the careful and considered
conclusion which has been arrived at by many people who use
Beecham’s Pills. They consider that Beeeham’s Pills are “indispen-
sable” to their health, and, as a matter of course, to their happiness;
and they never allow themselves to be without a supply of this valuable
medicine in their homes. This latter is an excellent idea, and one
worthy of imitation —for there is no doubt whatever, that, as a preven-
tive medicine—one that may be taken with confidence when perhaps
only an “out of sorts ” feeling is experienced and before any definite
ailment has developed —Beecham’s Pills are a positive boon. They do
good all round;— they tone up the stomach, correct the action of the
liver, regulate the bowels and are a powerful agent in purifying the
blood. It is certainly a good plan never to be without
BEECHAJVI’g
PIEES
m- m m -mi m >
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1| (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
I
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat,
Shipped izt British vessels. w
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. 'Warranted
fey a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
Cvana tens Lescher & Webb, Ltd.- Liverpool & London,
WatermansOdeaDFoimtainPen
jT
>} s
X
/
The pen he used
in the Trenches
he is using now in the hospital.
Through that last gallant charge and
through many a tough day’s fighting
before, that pen reposed in his pocket
ready for (he moment when it, too,
should come into action. What a boon
it has been to him ! Always ready, the
instant he wanted to write, no matter
where he was, his Waterman’s Ideal
never failed him. If you want to do your
friend on Active Service a real kindness,
send him a Waterman’s Ideal, Safety
type, the best type for soldiers.
Three types—Regular, Safety,
and Lever Pocket Self-Rilling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan,
Ch&Jfcm dor iter,
London, England.
Australia ; Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
mm
TH&EE~J?r&BJEJn T'Y&ES
m
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
aud prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd,,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
„ MELBOURNE:
MOJLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.8.—70
m
i ssa
m
m


NCROVTT
LEATHER
jLTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
THE HIGH-WATER MARK IN HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Suitable for Lathe Tools, Reamers, Drills,
Milling Cutters, Planing Tools and
all work where the highest
efficiency and speed
are required.
m
•m&Si
m
Stocked
in Squares, Rounds
and Fiats.
ULTRA CAPITAL" TWIST DRILLS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICK BELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures econoifly in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD IE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GUAY LTD., Newcastle. [1
9
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
.. -
Tangye Portable Lampk-s-s Oil Engine.
m
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable steam Engine.
Write us for illustrated and descriptive Catalogues.
One of the above Cutters, driven by either a TANGYE LAMPLESS OIL
ENGINE or CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam Engine, forms an
ideal CHAFFCUTTING PLANT, and will give wonderful satisfaction.
m
o
y
Tangye Oil Engine driving Centrifugal Pump for Irrigating.
m
Milter’s Point, Sydney.
Tangye Pumps and Irrigation Plants.
Nicholson & Morrow Farm Implements.
Wclseley Sheep-shearing Machines.
E.R.B. Separator Engines.
E.R.B. Farm Pump Engines.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
S3NIIOVW DNiaViHS d33HS
i ’’v . -> • . -••' ■• *« a.- . %>
The “Wolseley” is the world’s standard, and is always a
profitable investment. Breakdowns, unnecessary delays are
avoided, and smooth, efficient working, on a low cost of upkeep,
is assured.
Obtain full particulars of this superior machine.
Address your inmiiries to the nearest branch.
Australasian Agents: Dalgety & Company, Ltd.—All Branches.
all Services
■■■■ ■■ ■■
SallßSils
Knowles
PISTON and OUTSIDE PACKED PLUNGER TYPES for—
Mine Sinking, Cyanide Works, Battery
Supply, Tank Filling, Boiler Feoding, etc.
You can depend upon a KNOWLES—they won’t fail you when
the strain conies at a c itical period. Many years of use have
demonstrated their superiority in
EFFICIENCY. DURABILITY
Solm Agents for Australasia—
(U. RELIABILITY,
PA RKE & LACY GO. LTD.
Engineers. Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY
,':v^
IGNITION TROUBLES BANISHED
REVOLUTION IN OIL ENGINES.
A Wonderful Power Machine which Starts Up Cold and Runs on Cheapest Low-grade Kerosenes.
Sizes: 2-h.p., 4-h.p.. 8-h.p., hand started (larger sizes with Self-starter).
HOOE OIL ENGINES
Do away with all the Present Ignition Devices. No Electricity. No Blow Lamps.
A 4-h.p. Engine in use 18 months in N.S.W. consumes only *62 pints per B.H.P. per hour.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building,
350 George St., Sydney
