

Whisky or txquisite laste
R. G. WATK.IDTS SZ CO.,
Machinery Merchant*, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ "and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty ; AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
» i/'>)
l mt-v-.o :.£ v: r-J
\VjajvJP' • ••*•?»•!• ' ’ W.' v* 1
\\\V
€. 5.0
advance,
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
BILLS DISCOUNTED
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N. S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.iU.C? LTV
HEAD OEEICE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART,
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
FIFTY PAGE BOOK-POST FREE
s T~
fll'tliJl
j :
SLEEP IN OH
OUTDOORS
IN COMFORT
Try our
PATENT BED
FOR HOTELS
FLATS* AND
BUNGALOWS
REVOLVES IN
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO..
330 G2ORGE ST (near G.p 0.1, SYDNEY.
ittaag
HamsTbacon
5 H B
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
unke
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 Eirst-Class Prize Medals.
sdfs
For Electric Wires and Cables
Msdc in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street , Sydney.
df
FS
Royal
Dutch
I
A.
SUPERIOR
in h
V:
36Si
SNOW STEAM PUMPS
FOR GENERAL SERVICE.
We can supply Steam Pumps for every duty, also Centrifugal and other types
of Belt-Driven Pumps. Let us send you further particulars. All sizes from stock.
R. L. SCRUTTON CO. LTD.
THE ENGINEER’S DEPOT. 161 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
sdf
GOLD LABEL
m
WHITE LABEL s. v b
Gi\bett lodiQCkCh
M
KENDALL & GENT’S
(Manchester, Eng.)
achine Tools for all Trades.
108 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 4126.
■
115-117 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
sd
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 38.—N0. 1945.]
[Thursday, May 24, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.WAustralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


hOs
Carry an Onoto with you!
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills
v itself in a flash, cleans itself in the act of filling - ,
\ and contains sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
\ N ever leaks- always writes smoothly—and is always ready
for writing. Can be filled from any ink supply without
a filler, without mess or trouble, in five seconds.
Onoto
Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
British made by British labour.
Price, 14,6 and upwards. At all
Stationers, Jewellers, Stores, etc.
'latinfacturers— Thomas dk la Rue
Co. r,TD.,Bunhill Row, London. E.C.
' annging Agents —Norman Baker &
Longhurst, York Street, Sydney.
A NEW BOOK.
AUSTRALIA IN PEACE AND WAR.
By VV. M. FLEMING, M.H.R.
Some of the finest and most virile poems ever pub-
lished. Mr. Fleming has been called the second
Kipling, and certainly what Rudyard Kipling has
done for England and India Mr. Fleming has done
for our own country.
The earlier poems are splendid, but through the
latter portion of the book you can trace Australia’s
part in this war, and the unconquerable spirit of our
boys is seen in every line.
The introduction by Sir John Forrest, P.C.,
LL.D., M.H.R., etc., gives a personal
touch which greatly adds to the interest of the book.
It is a volume to read and re-read—and to think
about in between whiles. ORDER NOW! Obtain-
able from all Booksellers. Price 5/-
Lothian Book Publishing Company Proprietary, Ltd.
100 Flinders Street,- Melbourne;
228 Pitt Street, Sydney; and at Adelaide.
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Jujubes.
Sold
Everywhere
In Tins,
Price 1/6.
f
The Great Antiseptic
for COUGHS, COLDS,
INFLUENZA AND
THE PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
Sent Post Free on receipt of stamps, IJ$, any State, by Sole Manufacturers.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
“EGCE HOMO .”
The Red Page
He teas comely '. and strong;
With tiny gold rings on his neck, where the
hair greiv low.
To me he was gentle always.
God! —he was the life of my life, beloved
beyond the power of language to express.
Fire escaped from Hell, and covered the
earth,
Devils came up from the pit, and gorged on
the helpless —
The men went forth to kill the devils and to
slake the fire.
I blessed him, and he went also.
He killed seven devils;
But they caught him and tied him to a stake;
They stabbed him with bayonets and grinned
and mocked,
And burned him with cordite —there was
phosphorus in his open wounds —•
They cut out his tongue, and maimed him
obscenely ;
Spat upon him. And God let him die at last.
I, Mary, Mother of the Man, buried him in
my heart.
Rows upon rows of crosses, pointing to
Heaven.
A world of flowers, and birds, and little chil-
dren,
The devils gone back to hell, and to torment,
And the fire put out.
I do not mourn for my crucified, he will not
return.
But I shall go to him.
BLACK BONNET.
Fiction
Welsh.
Caradoc Evans, author of that remark-
able realistic study of the Welsh in all their
Welsh My People, follows up that
triumph with a further assortment of horrors
and religious bigotry, entitled Capel Sion
(Melrose, per Dymock’s Library). Here is
still the grimmest realism, the most nauseat-
ing ugliness, and the vilest degradation of
religion; but this volume lacks the relief of
variety and the sense of humor, grim though
it was, that made the first book a work of
art. The stories are mere incidents, and
they are all in the one dreary key, dealing
with unromantic adultery, petty meanness
and gross superstition. Capel Sion is
written, too, in the curious diction of the
first volume —evidently achieved by a direct
translation, from the original Welsh in which
it must have been conceived —a diction
involved and difficult to follow, yet with
many of the Impressive qualities of the Old
Testament story.
In the first story Hannah Harelip deter-
mined to Seduce her young master in order
that she might become the mistress of his
house. She considered how to ensnare him,
and caused him to say: “Come, you small
wench, and I will fondle you.” Hannah
Harelip, we are told, “knew a little of the
ways of man,” and her method was simple
and successful. “Wench very all right you
are,” he said. And Hannah remarked:
“Frisky you feel, man.” But later she
became odious in his eyes. “What iobish-
ness you speech, you bad boar!” he said.
“Don’t you blohber old things, good maid.
Off you, then”; and he terms her “Dirty
smell of a mule.”
The best of the stories coneerns-'Ellen and
Lias Carpenter, who was a mighty man in
Sion, but who seduced Ellen and cast her
off. But her hate of him persisted Jbeyond
death. She made her son bury her in a
field: since she had failed to obtain justice
from the Welsh preacher, she meant to get it
on Judgment Day from “the Big Male,”
God. “Hap I shall hear the Trumpet before
-Capel Sion. Goodness everybody, there’s
things I shall speech to the Big Man about
Lias.”
But Lias was just as cunning. He bought
the field, and he bui’lt a hedge on all sides
of it so that none should trespass on it. “For
he, too, shall be buried in the field, and at
, the first sound of the Trumpet he will arise
and go up into the pulpit, and he will warn
the Big Man that Ellen Pugh was without
a name in Sion.”
Caradoc Evans’ first book was necessary
to eradicate the sentimental legend of
Welsh romanticism; this was done so drasti-
cally that a continuance of the savage treat-
ment is unnecessary. The first volume was
literature; the second is mere sordid real-
ism—rather monotonous and certainly dull.
And the reading public is not likely to
demand any further records of this tribe of
savages in West Wales —part of the poly-
glot peoples that inhabit Great Britain.
American.
That clever journalist who wrote Me—
the deliberately luscious and fleshly narra-
tive of an American girl who used her sex
to get her into compromising positions, and
yet escaped the consequences that in real
life would-be apt to occur, dallying on the
edge of dangers with an unconvincing inno-
cence, and making a good living out of it—
has evidently found the recipe popular. For
it has occurred to him that there are other
sisters in her family, who also can write
their experiences in love-making with an
equal suggestiveness. Marion: The Story of
an Artist's Model (Watt, N.Y., per The Aus-
tralian News Co., C.A.) is the alleged auto-
biography of “Me’s” sister, though it is
announced as by the author of Me. It is a
simple story of a simple girl who poses—but
only once in the nude—and quotes Ella
Wheeler Wilcox, and has a perfect figure:
“A perfect nude,” says one artist, “is not so
easy as people seem to think—one whose
figure is still young. Most models don’t
take care of themselves, and it’s the hardest
thing to find a model with firm breasts.
They all sag, the result of wearing corsets.
.... Your figure, I can see, is young and—er
—has life— esprit .”
But the story is much more convincing
than the melodramatic adventures of Me. ft
is the simple record of an attractive girl
who makes a living as a model, is made love
to, finds good male friends everywhere, and
ends up with the right man. It is realisti-
cally done, but the pictures are the most
exciting part of it.
A HSMRAIIAN.
Roy Bridges has never done such sincere
work as appears in The Immortal Dawn
(llodder and Stoughton). With a writer’s
instinct he has made use of several diaries
of returned Auzacs —these diaries which are
being sought for by the library of the Fed-
eral Parliament, and “will carry down the
years the echo of the laughter and the bur-
den of the pain of the Anzacs.” The inter-
est of these diaries, quoted and introduced
with apt comment by Roy Bridges, lies in
the diaries and not in the comment. They
are too real, too moving, too Australian, to
need much comment. And even in the edit-
ing of them Roy Bridges has failed to delete
unnecessary repetitions. But the remainder
of the book, consisting of pen-pictures of
Australia in war-time and of the pathos and
glory of the men who went, the men who
returned, and the women who waited, is
literature.
There is a picture of the Mallee country
that is finely done. Only a portion need be
quoted here, since the book will assuredly
find a large and eager public.
“The road went up the ridge as a ribbon
of fire to the sun. The paddocks, where the
wheat had died in the spring, rolled up brick-
red to the black pine clumps against the sky.
At every swirl of hot wind the sand w r as
blown up in yellow spirals; the spirals
whirled a rigadoon; and merging into the
one ochre-colored cloud crept down into the
roads. Red earth, dazzling blue sky, yellow
sun. The hard green Mallee scrub fringed
the road; stood in unrolled clumps, the green
unvarying in tint or tone —dull green against
the brick-red; black pines perched on the
ridges like big, lean carrion cr.ows. Sand
shifting as the oncoming waves of the sea ;
making great banks, where the Mallee scrub
stayed it; leaking through wire fences into
the tracks as iron-colored water tinkling
like a stream. If the wind died, the mirage,
a flickering fantasy to right and left-
lagoons of silver water flowing out over
the waste; gold-colored sands edging the
lagoons; out of them shaping in grey
smudges pine and eucalypt, shadowy, mys-
tical.”
But Roy Bridges can do more than fling
on the paint for gorgeous pictures; he can
etch, too, the shadows and the splendors
of the human heart. He gives us exquisite
little pictures of the divine commonplaces
of the war: the chap from the Bacltbloeks
riding down to enlist, the sullen bravery
of the lone mother left behind, the Last
Judgment of the casualty-list, the coming of
the parson with his news to the Outback
selection, the loneliness of the old folk wait-
ing for the rain—and their son, the bitter-
ness of the mother who has given her son
to the mother who hasn’t, the comradeship
that prompts a splendid lie to console a
slain cobber’s mother —these impressions are
perfectly limned with a sincerity and an
insight rare in our literature.
Roy Bridges has done a big thing. His
book deserves to stor'd on the same shelf as
The Straits Impregnable.
Pebbles on the Shore (Dent, per Dymock’s
Library), we are confidentially told on the
cover, is by a “well-known author, who pre-
fers to write under a pen-name (Alpha of the
Plough), in order to say what he chooses.”
A well-known author can say anything he
chooses under his own name. This well-
known author doesn’t say much, but he says
it genially. His little essays, evidently re-
printed from a Fleet-street journal, are
cheerful, gently humorous, quite English, and
always exceedingly conscious of the fact
that they are designed to fill a column once
a week without. annoying their casual
readers. As apparently English people like
this sort of thing in their papers, they ought
to like it in this issue of The Wayfarers’
Library (Is. 6d.).
The latest cheap editions published by Murray
(Is. 6d. out here) include H. A. Vachell’s Loot, Ger-
trude Atherton's Tower of Ivory, and Mary Cholmon-
d elw’s .Vo t • •rthr tan ding .
The Pacific-Our Job
O. Brunsdou Fletcher, in The New Pacific:
British Policy and German Aims (Mac-
millan; 7s. Od. in England), succinctly
sketches the history of settlement and devel-
opment in the Pacific, and suggests the possi-
bilities of the future. Tim volume -is bur-
dened with three prefaces, and is dedicated
to James Fairfax, “whose service and sym-
pathy have done much to help in voicing the
opinions of the people, and in developing the
resources of Australia”; and, incidentally,
the references to The Sydney Morning
Herald are so numerous that James Fairfax
would be but doing the proper tiling in
handing an iron cross to the author.
“The New Pacific! There it lies with its
tropical treasures and its colors of a terres-
trial paradise, its multitude of islands full of,
or crying for, people—potential wealth in
every degree of the lines of latitude which
define its nosition upon the earth’s surface.”
And Lord Rosebery said in 1883 that Aus-
tralia’s destiny was to be the trustee of the
Pacific. Brunsdou Fletcher tells the long
story, with a wealth of documents, many
striking pen-portraits of the men who blazed
the way, and a broad knowledge of the many
problems that still remain for settlement.
The trail of German intrigue and German
trade methods and German diplomacy runs
all over that vast expanse. In 1883 Aus-
tralia was already restless and very anxious
over German activity near her coast, and
Queensland took the drastic method of call-
ing Britain’s attention to the danger by
annexing part of New Guinea. “Then the
salient groups in the Pacific near Australia
were practically in Britain’s possession, and
she had .only to stretch out her hands to
secure them. To-day once more all the main
approaches to the Commonwealth and the
outlying points for defence are in Britain’s
hands, waiting the event of the war.” And
Germany has always recognised the value of
the Pacific, this “tropical empire waiting to
be developed,” and has always recognised
Australia as the basis and the capital of that
empire. Of the Solomons the author
enthusiastically says: “Compared with Fiji
this group is'declared to be like the treasure-
house of Aladdin beside the ordinary bank-
ing-house possessions of civilisation. Like
New Guinea it lies outside the hurricane
belt, and its native labor can be utilised....
Fiji and Samoa are fertile, but the Solomons
are dreams of fertility.”
“Germany’s policy in the Pacific has been
a mixture of bullying and palaver, threaded
with cunning and quite unscrupulous double-
dealing. . . .The Germans from the commence-
ment thought of the native as a chattel, gdod
to preserve' perhaps, and later on worth the
care and attention which one gives to acces-
sories to wealtii, but otherwise less than
human.” The British method has been to
preserve tlie'islands for the natives, with the
result that in Fiji the white man has to pay
rent to the Fijians for land that the Fijian
won’t work himself. The problem will be
to find a humane and fair mean between the
two methods.
Brunsdon Fletcher’s argument boils down
to this: “Germany can never be permitted to
return to her possessions; but the British
Empire, either through Australia or by
other means, must be prepared to make
greater sacrifices for, and to obtain a truer
understanding of, dominion in these wide
waters if development is to be fruitful and
sustained.” It will be Australasia’s job, and
it will have to be tackled. It will be a huge
responsibility, and will cost heavily, and
need skill and knowledge in the carrying out.
but it’s got to be done. Australia will not
only have to shoulder the White Man’s
burden; she will have to hump a whole ocean
and a thousand archipelagoes.
0 —: s
Paul Hookham briefly replies to Oliver
Lodge’s Raymond, or Life and Death, in
Raymond: a Rejoinder (Blackwell, Oxford,
Is.), taking exactly the same ground taken
by this page on its notice of the book.
Hookham’s contention is that mind commu-
nicates with mind, on this plane of earth, in
a way which is incomprehensible to our
normal setises and capacity of reasoning. “In
the presence of this unknown extension of
mental faculties any test of human survival
by the display of knowledge and identity on
the part of a dead person is impossible.”
We do not know the extent of the powers
o? a medium, and therefore we have no justi-
fication of setting a limit to those subliminal
powers. “If the medium can read the minds
of people in contiguity to her and known to
her we are not in a position to say that she
cannot read minds at a distance and un-
known.” What Lodge has to prove is that
-the medium’s communications could not by
any possibility have emanated from herself.
There is therefore no need for us to invoke
the spirits when the powers of the human
subliminal consciousness are remarkable
enough to produce all the results claimed.
The author goes on to outline the very inter-
esting Occultist theory of soul evolution
after death; and suggests that tlie soul after
death is avid to disengage itself from all
earthly interests and ties; and it may be that
these earthly passions and commonplace,
idle or frivolous, already dying, defires
struggle for a little while to live on through
a medium. Our troubles!
What Dots Bii.lzac Head";
Au unconscious witness to Billjim’s liter-
ary tastes is Beulah Bolton, secretary of
the Bush Club Book, who i-ecently told
us in the press what Billjim reads in the
bush. Last year this club sent over 7000
books to the lonely places of the continent.
Yet in the typical list given of books sent to
a camp the only mention of Australian
authors is the entry, “Australian Poets”;
and only two Australian books mentioned by
name find place in the whole article, Jose’s
History of Australia and An Anthology of
Australian Verse. Beulah Bolton claims that
she had been in charge so long that she
seems to be able to suit everybody’s tastes.
On this evidence Billjim’s taste for his own
literature is almost absent.
According to Gunner A. T. Jones, the firing-line
reads anything it can get hold of —and that isn’t
much. “The most-popular reading among our crowd
are the short yarns. These must be well
written and must never have the war as a subject.
Short yarns about boxing or any kind of
sport are popular, and also any kind of
good yarn about Australia which has not
too much sentiment about it. For my own part
I abhor the silly, sickly-sentimental yarns which
occur in some of the English magazines, but many
of our fellows read them with apparent enjoyment.
Practically the only U.S.A. stuff we read is a magazine
now and again, but some of the best short stories
I have read have been in the Saturday Evening
Post. Books of poetry are seldom read, but The
Sentimental Bloke is very popular. Very short pieces
of poetry about the war are acceptable, but they
must be true pictures and not contain too much
pathos. We do not have the time or inclination to
read novels. I can honestly say that I have not seen
above a dozen novels among all our crowd during the
time 1 have been with them, and that is about two
and a half years. If one gets a novel he swaps it
when finished for a mngadne, and that for another,
until he has to shift to n new position, when he
generally abandons everythin)? of that kind. Maga-
zines and papers are practically all we have, as they
are sent by post and are easily carried. News of
Australia is read with avidity; and the results of
boxing, racing and other sports are eagerly read
and discussed. As I have never left my unit since
1 joined in August, 1911, I cannot offer any opinion
about the reading in hospitals, etc.’’
“Bill Bowyang” from the front trenches: There
is no lack of newspapers, or of miscellaneous reading
matter, apart from periodicals. A society exists in the
Big Smoke for the purpose of supplying the troops with
literary matter. Under its benevolent auspices sack-
loads of books and magazines are despatched to
France every week and the contents distributed. No
doubt the committee has some method in the selec-
tion of this reading matter, but the items are often
extraordinarily mixed: My opinion is that the
sevenpenny editions of popular novels are most
appreciated, as these can always be slipped into one’s
pocket or haversack. Billjim is a great reader,
and when he returns home again he is going to take
more interest in literature than he did in the days
before Berlin Bill saw red.
“The Immature Male” : The cove who in a recent
B. mentioned illustrated papers was about right.
Here on the Peninsula (Sinai —not the glorious
original) the swaddy who goes on Cairo leave is
besieged with orders for “anything with tarts in
it.” La Vie ParisikXne and London Sketch are
just favorites, for Billj. has fallen hard,* both here
and in France, for that adorable, provocative, tan-
talising piece who winks and' smiles and dimpled
from the pages of these periodicals, and who is
known as the Kirchrier Girl. This dainty, elfish,
cheeky type of femininity is the goddess-elect of
the trenches; no well-furnished dugout is complete
without one or more of her; every discerning
swadd.v’s tent is decorated with her lovely legs; and
the shimmer of her silk-stockings dazzles one’s eyes
in every mess. Kirchner, who is naughty without
being nasty, subtle without being suggestive, is
almost as nopular as C. Chaplin, and a darned side
more artistic. " -
“A Billjim in France”: Funny books and papers
are what all the fellows like most, even the Funny
Cuts that the children buy for a. penny are eagterlv
read. All have an intense dislike for “blood and
murder” and war yarns. Personally, I scarcely ever
look at The Bulletin.
■ ©
The Fountain, by Julius West (Iris Pub-
lishing Co.. London, per; Dymock’s Library)
is stodgy fooling. The book is meant to be
a humorous initiation into the secrets Qf the
literary trade. Julius West heavily parodies
the Russian story and other “literary
stunts”; but unfortunately for him Stephen
Leacock has shown how that sort of thing
can be done. However, he has a useful
suggestion for the writers of biographies:
always give the date of your hero’s birth
wrong. “What happens then? Within a
week of the publication of your book a liter-
ary controversy will be raging in every
paper.. . . And the book will “have an enor-
mous advertisement.” Also: “Lives of
Empire-builders are fairly easily constructed,
as they consist mainly of speeches.... And
remember that whenever you find that you
have chosen a very dull subject, alter the
names, brighten it up by the exercise of the
imagination, and call it a novel.” There is
a lot more like this—and almost as painful.


UrtJpmlocdeizisfoje
No. 4076. —‘Corded Taffeta Silk
Gold-metal Roses ..................
Hat,
30/-
4076
No. 2110.—Velvet Hat, trimmed Ribbon and
Gold-tissue Roses 30/-
wo
No. 200.—Panne Velvet Breton Sailor,
trimmed Corded Ribbon and Gold Braid, 14/6
ZOO
No. 307. — Taffeta Hat, lined Velvet, trimmed
Beaded Flowers 30/-
Anthony Horderns
for the
NEW MILLINERY
159
u
No. 159.—Velvet and Ribbon Hat,
trimmed Ribbon 13/6
No. 164.—Black Velvet Picture Hat,
trimmed Ribbon and Buckle .. . 37/6
/<s#
Jfo, 198.—Velvet and Silk Hat, Ribbon
Cabaehon 13/0
193
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ WINTER
FASHION PORTFOLIO illustrates all
things new in the world of millinery
and dress, and is an authoritative guide
as to the modes that are to prevail.
Write for a copy, posted free on request
It will assist ladies who desire to
combine fashion with economy.
JS>i
No. 191.-—Panne Velvet Sailor Hat, band
and buckle of Corded Ribbon 14/6
No. 179.—Velvet Hat, trimmed Ribbon and
Posies 21/-
/r&
No. 197. — Velvet Hat, trimmed fancy mount
and hand-made Flowers .... 35/-
isr
m
0
No. 220.—Tagel and V elvet Hat, trimmed
bard and Cockade of Corded Ribbon.. 12/6
220
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


sdf
Rifles and Cartridges
sd
fs
df
“SURE I USE ’EM t
I’ve been usin* ’em
for a number of
years and expect
to continue to, as
they always do
the business.”
Ask any dyed-in-the-
wool sportsman about
Winchester rifles and
cartridges and that’s
about what he’ll tell you.
They are made in various
sizes for all kinds of
shooting and you’ll get
them if you ask for
THE RANDS
m
, a'
i
sdfsdf
You can’t
see the glass!
You can’t see the glass in a win-
dow that has been cleaned with
Bon Ami, it is so clear and free
from streaks and specks.
Bon Ami cleans by the wet-and- dry
method, like a metal-
polish. You rub a wet
cloth on the cake of
Bon Ami, making a
white lather. Cover
the glass with this
lather, let it dry, and
wipe it off. It only
takes a minute, and
the result is wonderful.
For all the
Finer Kinds of
sof I
Mirj
Polishing&Cleaning
In the United States it is estimated
that 60,000,000 people use-Bon Ami.
Bon Ami also cleans mirrors and
smooth, shiny surfaces of all kinds,
such as bath-tubs, tile, kitchenware,
white paint, nickel, copper and brass.
It is also good for
white shoes.
At your Grocer’s.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
Stt, a »«iflcw‘«eSh caZo £ “ b?cM.paS‘with “* ***
teeping nS ttOT P clMn W 'VoM° wate/ n'Z *° pl ' escl T their teeth “ Io ”S “ s Possible by
eU T> C u D ' V old wa t ei and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
are too *Le o n®tL P e7nmel.’ "* " cuttMsh ' ' rab!K *<» s ' CT “ de <*»&» d»».l
PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth sweeten
FTTlYruvta tf 6n / be gum ® aild (( d [ sinfee t the mouth (thus preventing’ decay)
S™, 1 therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1A tube eve?v-
Mhae. 1 ost free 1/3. 1 ree sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
sdf
EcnciLLi
rcIJLKAL
SALES
are
Repeat Orders
“Another FEDERAL.”
This is the best proof of FEDERAL
quality: when motor-lorries perform iheir
duties with satisfaction they' receive
praise from their owners.
Federal Lorries are paid the highest
tribute possible by their owners when they
say, “Another FEDERAL, please.’’
It will pay you to use FEDERALS.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
Australian Agents: Adelaide, EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney, KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland, TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative: BOX 635, Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
Here is a representative FEDERAL fleet —owner! by the
Associated Oil Co. of California—from an actual photograph.
[1
sdf
Calvert's
__ t|C AR~B OLJC?
Ointment
rs just what you may
want any time, any day
a healing, soothing,
antiseptic ointment.
Keep a Supply by you ready
for cuts, scalds, scratches and
chafed or sore skin.
In cases of insect bite, piles,
eczema, or ringworm it has
also been proved useful.
Sold by local Stores & Chemists.
I'. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
n are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and w«
will send you particulars and testimonials
■■rarnrding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else,
this is something ENTIRELY NEW; °it is,
in fact,‘THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT'SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET-POSTED TREE.
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
A CLEMENTS TONIC LETTER:—
"The thought of Sleep
depressed me.
"I went to the hospital'
as an outdoor patient.
"I lost considerably in
weight through lack of good
food.
"By chance one of
your pamphlets was given to me.
"I took the first step
towards good health by sending
for a bottle of
CLEMENTS TONIC
"In all I took four
bottles and enjoy good health.
" My appetite never was
large, but my husband jocularly
remarks he would rather keep
me a week than a fortnight
when he sees me eating."
( Signed)
Emily Hynes,
63 Gipps Street, Paddington.
“I WAS LAID UP IN A HOSPITAL;
but I am now completely restore!
and my sleep is rendered most
refreshing, thanks to your tonic.”
There are many commercial men in Sydney to-da\
who feel the effect of the strenuous time*
caused by the war and worry of business
too, so that they are after a hard day’s work
almost too fatigued to reach home. To those
men the letter published below, by a promi-
nent city accountant, appeals, for it tells in a
few words how jaded nerve-strength can be re-
stored, insomnia banished and health regained
by the use of this well-recognised remedv,
Clements Tonic.
Read Mr. CLARK’S letter to this
medicine and its merits.
200 Victoria Street,
Da rli nghurst, 11/12/' 15.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“After being ill in hospital for 12
months and being weak and scarcely
able to walk, a friend (a chemist) told
me to try your medicine.
“I can most truthfully say the tonic
created wonders, banished my sleepless
nights and gave me appetite. I
thoroughly enjoy each meal. My health
is almost completely restored.
“Use this, as it is a man’s duty to
advise liis fellow-men of the benefit
derived from a medicine doing universal
good. I feel 20 years younger since
taking the tonic.
“(Signed) J. N. S. CLARKE.”
Public Accountant.'’'
If you have any regard for your health keep
this medicine beside you in winter or summer.
It is invaluable in cases of Brain-fag, Insomnia,
Debility, Poor Appetite, Weak Nerves, bow
Spirits and Facial Neuralgia.
Get it and try it, as thousands of
others have done. All Chemists
and Stores sell it everywhere.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Rozelle.


She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or faded
hair, stimulate its growth and make it soft
and glossy with this simple recipe, which
they can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum and 1 small box of
Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be purchased at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair every other day
until the grey hair is darkened sufficiently.
This mixture relieves itching and is excel-
lent for dandruff. It does not stain the
scalp, is not sticky or greasy and does' not
rub off. It will make a grey-haired person
look 10 to 20 years younger.”— Advt. [3
w
sd
Series
With
These
Brands
are HONEST SERGES-Pure
Wool, Fast Dye and Thoroughly
Shrunk. Such Serges, in Blue or
Black, never fail to give satisfactory
wear and to keep their appearance
GENUINE
FOX SERGES
have these brands stamped once in
every yard so that discriminating
buyers may recognise them at once
Made by Fox Bros. & Co. Ltd., Somerset, Eng. If
you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally, write to the
agents: Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1602,
0.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest
storekeeper stocking it.
fs
THE: GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
HtUMs
GOUT 41
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
Tlie famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prnnt A- Co.. 220 Strand. London.
TOBACCO KILLS!
7/ f'
;
Face to Face with Deal *■ f
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Ilnhits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I teas a hard smoker for SO
years, but since talcino your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
bon*'*gton:s
IRISH MOSS
Sold Here
1860
Ihave sold it for oversoveat*
says the retailer” and there is
nothing in my stock that I can
more conscientiously recommend
for coughs and colds than Bonning-
ton's Irish Moss. For. over half a
century it has been the standard,
never-failing remedy, and the public
have set their seal of approval upon
80/lMGTOflii
BONMINGT
IRISH MO
IRISH®MOSS
It acts like a charm in cases of Whooping Cough. Croup. Coughs and Colds which
are the children s worst enemies. Always keep it handy Summer and Winter, but
bt sure it's Bonnington s. Large and Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
CELEBRATED
S 3
3
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
lias become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co , Merchants,"Hobart [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
V
I » •
\
iliuimtiimi
U
WllM
SftttlW
JsJS-
*5>'\
X
1
TS|
/
*
\
jj
«■-
8
»«1K
n
0>a
a
o
®
w
«
B
- sf JDrary •
•fcjttd Charley Ul*
UNIQUE PROCESS FOR
RETAINING AND
REGAINING BEAUTY.
By Mlle. Charlotte Sirier.
Does your skin chap or roughen easily, or become
unduly red or blotchy? Let me tell you a quick and
easy way to overcome the trouble and keep vour com-
plexion beautifully white, smooth and soft." Just get
some ordinary mercolised wax at the chemist’s, and
use a little before retiring as you would use cold
cream. The wax, through some peculiar action, flecks
off the rough, discolored or blemished skin. The
worn-out cuticle comes off just like dandruff on a
diseased scalp, only in almost invisible particles. Mer-
colised wax simply hastens Nature’s work, which is
the rational and proper way to attain a perfect com-
plexion, so much sought after but very seldom seen.
The process is perfectly simple and quite harmless.
❖* * *
It is astounding the number of women who suffer
from unsightly growths of hair on the face, and it
will come as a piece of good news to know that
there is a simple substance known as powdered
pheminol which will remove it immediately and per-
manently. Mix a small quantity into a thin paste
with a little water, and apply to the objectionable
growths. In two minutes all trace of the hair will
have entirely vanished, and your skin will be as soft
and smooth as a child’s.
** * *
The hair should be allowed to breathe, and the
greasy film around each strand must be removed with
a mild non-alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be
tabooed. The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of hot water. It stimulates the
scalp to healthy action, and at the same time leaves
the hair in that soft, fluffy condition so much
admired. Any chemist can supply you with an
original packet of stallax, sufficient to make 25 or
30 shampoos.
** * *
One need not resort to the very questionable ex-
pedient of hair-dye in order not to have grey hair
The grey hair can easily be changed back to a
natural color in a few days’ time merely by the
application of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from your
chemist two ounces of tammalite concentrate, and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply this to
the hair a few times with a small sponge and you
will soon have the pleasure of seeing your grey hair
gradually darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
Is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and dors not injure
the hair in any way. ry
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Eift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Fitting; Ropes and
other parts for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing: and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. A. MAYNE HERON, Manager.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shell-Music.
You with the shell to your ear,
What do you hear,
Slim and so white
In the moonlight?
“Oh, I hear surging and shouting and sing-
ing',
The sea-folk at market—their little bells
ringing,
The tall weeds about them, the green world
above!
Oh, blithe are the pedlars of ribbons and
laces,
Yet, blither and sweeter, upon the wide
spaces
The footfalls of Love !”
You with the shell to your ear,
What do you hear,
Waves at your feet,
White and so siveet?
“Oh, I hear cooing and kissing and cooing,
The sound of sea-folk in their coral groves
wooing.
The red branches round them, the green
world above!
Oh, sweet are the songs of the witching sea-
daughters.
But sweeter, far sweeter, upon the wide
waters,
The footfalls of Love!”
You with the shell to your ear,
What do you hear,
Large eyes aglow,
Forehead of snow?
“Oh, I hear shouting and sobbing and sigh-
ing,
The sounds of the sea-folk in battle-rage
vieing,
The torn weeds about them, the green world
above!
The merman may shout as he stumbles and
slaughters,
But, ever and ever, I hear on the waters
The footfalls of Love!”
You with the shell to your ear,
What do you hear,
As you stand there,
Pale and so fair?
“Oh, as frost on the seaways the foam-spaces
glisten ;
My heart is the shell, to its. echoes I listen;
Red petals, rose petals around and above!
Oh sweeter, far sweeter, than little bells
ringing
Or market-men shouting, or mermaidens
singing,
The footfalls of Love!”
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Tempest.
Along the coasts of life a storm of creeds
Rages; and windy voices evermore
Moan to their gods; grey controversies
pour
A slanting drench of words; and blossoming
deeds
Are blighted by the levin-hate that speeds ;
Curses go* hurtling; doctrine-thunders
roar;
And gusts of superstition slam the door.
Of any temple where sweet laughter pleads.
I stride the tempest. Gods go whirling past
Like shadowy scarecrows on the darkening
blast.
/My cloak of faith is tattered; yet I know,
Yet still I know that some' god rules the
skies;
For I have seen the light of light aglow
Far in the sunlit heaven of your eyes.
MAORILAND.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
Girl-Gladness.
It’s holiday time on the hollyhock hills,
And I wish you would come with me, laddie-
love, now.
The butterfly-bells, from the Folly-fool rills,
Will ring if you listen and drop on your
brow.
So, dear, come along,
I’ve a kiss and a song,
And I know where the fairies are forging a
gong
To ring up the elves to a festival fair
Of sippets of sunshine and apples of air.
O laddie, my laddie, quick, run out of school
And away with a shout and a shake of the
head.
I’ll pick you a pearl from the pigeon-pink
pool
Where cuddles and kisses are going to bed.
Away, come away,
To the land of the fay,
For the afternoon tinkles your lassie-love’s
lay.
Play truant with Time and while Age is
asleep
I’ll give you the heart of my girlhood to
keep.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Soldier’s Room.
Sacred she keeps his room, a shrine for
prayer;
Placing before his picture brightest flowers,
Nor ever lets them wither with the hours.
But day by day renews them fresh and fair.
And reverent she will touch some trifle there,
At morn, or noon, or when the evening
hours;
A pipe, or book, as though the touch had
powers
To conjure up his presence from the air.
To-day she came and, kneeling, softly said
(As whispered words half round the world
could go) :
“Husband, a babe beneath my heart is fed
Within whose veins I feel your life-blood
flow.”
Between the shot-torn trenches he lies dead,
His winding-sheet the all-compassionate
snow.
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.


perdrialTrubber hose
df
RUBBER BELTING.
The largest endless rubber conveyor belt
ever manufactured in the world was made
by us, and is now in use at the N.S.W-
Government’s coal-loading plant at Port
Kembla.
W.e can supply belts for high-power driv-
ing, and during manufacture the cotton
duck is subjected to an even strain
throughout its entire length, which re-
duces stretch when in use to a minimum.
FOR ALL PURPOSES
If you require Hose for Steam, Suction, Gas.
Water, Divers, Air Drills, Fire, Dredge Sleeves,
Pneumatic Tools, Vacuum Cleaning, Chemicals,
or for any other use whatever, we can fulfil your
requirements.
Our Factory is thoroughly equipped with all the
latest and most up-to-date machinery and is capable
of turning out any special lines at short notice.
As actual manufacturers we invite enquiries from
Engineers, Industrial Manufacturers and Produc-
ing Corporations for any Special Hose or other
Rubber Goods, and will be pleased to furnish
samples and estimates on request.
rv
ENGINE PACKING AND JOINTINGS.
We manufacture a number of very high-
grade packings and jointings suitable for
all types of engines.
We can supply you with packings to
withstand the action of oils and grease,
and the various chemicals usually so
detrimental to anything that contains
rubber. For high pressures you can rely
upon Perdriau Packings to see you
through.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, NEWCASTLE, PERTH.
sdf
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity _
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
A u tho ritie s in
Great Britain and
Australia.
r?x
A Breakfast
That Needs
No Cooking.
“I’ve discovered the perfect breakfast dish
put up in cans,” said a bright little woman to
her friend. Her discovery was
Rex Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Get a tin of this wholesome, tasty food to-day and see how quickly a
fine, appetising breakfast can he prepared. ‘“Rex” Lorraine Sausages
owe their delicious flavor to the perfect “Rex” method of smoking and
seasoning. They are packed in a rich
jellv. To serve hot, simply immerse
the tin in boiling water tor 20 minutes,
or, if preferred, you may empty into
frying-pan and heat for a few minutes.
“Rex” Pork Sausage
is the ideal emergency ration. Send
a tin in your soldiers’ parcels. They
only require heating.
UK
r Jones &Coi^
\i PAut+*" : PORK DELICACIES.
HAM & BACON CUHEWS
sd
Another favorite in the trenches and
at home is
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b.
tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
The “REX” CANNED DELICACIES include
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly,
131 b and 21b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie in Jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese in soz.
decorated tins, and soz.
enamel jars.
Also “Rex” Card for cooking
purposes, lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “ Rex ’’ Hams & Bacon; Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products
PRUNING MADE EASY
The only Scientific Pruners on the Market are
Gafly’s Patent CUTTING EDGES on Both
Blades.
ORCHARD I STS
this Saves Your Hands, and Time.
IDEAL FOR CUTTING SHEEP’S FEET.
Price 7/R Per Pair.
“ j Postage 6d.
N. GUTHnIDGH LTD., Equitable Building, Sydney.
%
■
Q
The delicate,
distinctive flavor
of Thorne’s makes you keenly
relish it.
The perfect quality is the result
of using best malts and of per-
fect distilling and long ageing.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.
Call for Thorne’s —and be sure
of Scotch Whisky at its best.
As a beverage, Martell’s is most delight-
ful ; as a medicinal spirit it is always
reliable, being rich in higher ethers.
Martell’s
Brandy.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1945.
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1917.
Price Gd.
SUSPICIOUS!
Turkey detached by the Entente would be a staggering blow to Germany. —Rouse of Commons debate.
WILHELM: “Abdul, what’s this I hear?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Jlan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
for £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number , to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheque's, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or icash,
of sufficient merit and interest and. adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will he paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but .unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch. Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and. Son,
Capetown and. Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.—Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/jl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnacc Horn, Pori Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street. Fort
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji., British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to lOoz., 2id.:
lOoz. to 1.20 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id, each
additional ?.oz.
ffitTSSi’zZleOz/n.
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1917.
THE WRECKAGE OF WAR AND THE
OTHER FELLOW.
The Bulletin is with all hands in not being
sure about anything these times; but it is
no less certain that the day after to-morrow
will last all day long than it is confident
that the thing called a Repatriation Move-
ment will, if monopolised by politicians, be
botched. Every day since the war broke
out (and long before) the Australian
public has had evidence of the gross
inefficiency of their numerous Parliaments.
These institutions have shirked their jobs.
In the administrative field their record
is one long catalogue of muddle and
waste. From their precincts have emerged
dismal complaints about the “failure of
the Australian people to recognise their
responsibilities to the Empire”—about the
necessity of private economy, of greater pro-
duction, of the encouragement of industry
and so on and so forth. It has all been a
mockery of the national life, for it has come
from men who have set the people evil
example. The transactions of the State and
Federal Parliaments covering the last three
years can be searched in vain for even a
superficial indication that the members
thereof were other than dodgers. The
life story of the last Federal Parliament
is one of men taking a prolonged holiday
and letting things go to the Devil. What
words of justification can be found for Can-
berra, for the transcontinental railway, for
the Northern Territory, for the Defenc?
Department? How many citizens are there
who with even a rucßmentary notion of this
country’s financial position can view
without disgust the record of the Post
Office or contemplate without dismay the
Commonwealth’s growing expenditure on red
cape? To expect that the Parliament'
responsible for these failures will, because
of a mere change in party strength, be any
less a shirker, is to be victim to hopes
which all experience of the past is a
warning. Party Government has made the
incompetence of Parliament notorious. Even
were the new Federal Parliament to honestly
tackle the legacy of muddle it has inherited
and set about making an improvement, there
is more than enough on hand to keep it busy.
That ( it should add to all this the business
of “repatriation” simply means calling
tenders for chaos. Anyhow. The Bulletin
looks with anxiety upon the wild project now
filling the mouth of Millen and others of
the Federal Parliament borrowing and
spending, with the assistance of the States,
indefinite millions on repatriation or any-
thing else. What can be pointed to in the
record of the Commonwealth or the States’
handling of the public cashbox to suggest
that these millions would not suffer the
same fate which befell other millions—that
the bulk of the money would not be wasted
and frittered away—leaving nothing but
aroma behind? It is all very well for
Millen to start up in the middle of an
election rumpus and say that “On behalf
of the Government I am authorised to state
that it fully accepts the responsibility devolv-
ing upon it to care for our soldiers and
sailors.” And it is in accordance with the
everlasting fitness of things that the yell
should be frantically cheered by the sur-
rounding crowd. But it is only the practical
side to this that is worth an old hat. When
this paper contemplates a practical side con-
sisting of glib talk about the expenditure of
over £22,000,000 plus more millions by any
crowd of politicians that can be named it
refuses to assess the national value of it at
more than Id.
Meanwhile, in spite of continual friendly
invitations to be specific and explain himself
and the scheme that is going to cost millions,
Millen, who is supposed to be running the
show, continues to do nothing more than
issue “replies to criticism.” The net result
of these replies is that Millen proves him-
self to have been misunderstood and it con-
clusively shows that it is impossible for
either himself or anyone else to understand
what he means. In an exchange of views the
other day between him and Ashford. N.S.W.
Minister for Lands, the one thing certain to
readers was that both were groping in the
dark. If it is not an absurdity that a Min-
ister should be going about explaining a
repatriation scheme in language which
itself calls for explanation—that everything
connected therewith should be in a con-
dition of paralysis—that the scheme should
evade all attempts by interested citizens to
capture it for examination —then humor has
lost one of its definitions. That a scheme of
repatriation within certain limits has long
been overdue in Australia cannot be denied.
But there are schemes and schemes. The
title is nothing. The usefulness of any
scheme must turn entirely upon its detail and
its administration, and no responsible citizen
can conceive of any scheme being satisfactory
to the Commonwealth that is not protected
at every point from manipulation by politi-
cians. If these millions that are talked
about by Millen and Co. are to be borrowed
and spent in the way suggested, either the
incompetence of Parliament will have to lie
guarded against by adequately utilising the
service of men outside, or there will be
another Canberra story. All the same, it is
an expenditure unnecessary. The burden on
Australia now is too heavy a one. To reck-
lessly set about heaping up the load is
reprehensible.
* * » *
There are a few matters the Federal
Government should not lose sight of. The
first of these is that the war is not over.
A second is that the responsibilities of Aus-
tralia to the dependants of the dead is not
yet known. Nor can the bill of obligation to
the wounded and the sick be yet added up.
There is the further consideration that any
scheme of repatriation must, if it be honest,
start at the problem of dealing with the
restoration to useful citizenship of those
soldiers and sailors whose physical or mental
efficiency has been impaired by serving their
country. It may put a heavy strain on
Australia to meet these national obliga-
tions. No doubt it will, and there is
no reason why before the Common-
wealth gets tangled into commitments of
millions of money for men able to fend for
themselves that part of the repatriation
movement dealing with those of our men
whose need is dire should not first be put
upon an assured foundation. It is there
that the great moral responsibility of the
Federal Parliament rests. Only an irrespon-
sible person can suppose that 'the men and
women of Australia would have anything
but admiration for Millen if he made
this his immediate objective. What are
the responsibilities of the country, any-
way, to the man who comes back from the
wars to civil employment, unharmed, ready
to take his place in the job common to every
other citizen? Is it any more than that he
should be able to get employment?
One cannot think so, nor believe that
£22,000,000 have to be borrowed to give
him an. opportunity of working up a
perspiration. Provision for him is intimately
associated with provision for his brother-
worker who will have to earn the pension
for the widow and. the man without a leg.
Australian industries will either reabsorb the
man who went away or fall down dead. If
they are going to live the problem of repatri-
ating the fit and the well is the problem of
the tariff and the unbuilt Australian ship
and the mine and the workshop and Aus-
tralians earning bread instead of borrowing
to acquire foreign fish and exotic confec-
tionery. Borrowed millions are no help in
this direction, because borrowed cash means
borrowed industry every time. To land
boodlers and the whole tribe of social
bloaters the idea of repatriating health v
citizens by plunging all hands further into
debt probably sounds grateful and comfort-
ing. But to most other people it sounds as
if the political mind reckons the day after
to-morrow is going to be the same as yester-
day. and that the problems vital to the
solvency and the future of Australia can be
let go hang. So far as this paper can see.
one aspect of repatriation is being wildly
exaggerated, and the other, which cannot be
regarded too seriously, is being merely
tinkered with. Millen is putting his cart
in front of fhe horse, or winning- the war
before it is over, or something.
[To express the views of The Bot/Eetin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby- arid D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
THE DOOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many experts consider that the internal unrest in
the German Empire wi11... .ultimately prove the
most potent factor in its downfall.
Hun they have called me, spoiler of all,
Raptor of maidens and wealth and lives,
Follow my trail by the blackened, wall
And the wail of violate wives.
Pitiless, arrogant, three wild years
1 have pillaged the minster and fouled the
sod,
Shaken with laughter at death and tears,
Jeered in the face of God!
Now, with my back to a dark wall penned—
Wherein is a low door, heavy-barred—-
With back-flung glance I await the end.
And back-flung foot, on guard !
Stirrings and rustlings, ghosts of sound.
Reach to my ears through the oak behind,
And a laxness girdles my shoulders round,
And my eyes with blood are blind.
Speed to the onfall, even so
As you sped to your fate in a time before,
Ere the planks shall rive, and my numb brain
know
What waits behind the door!
The shot bolts bend and the lintels creak,
And the scaling and straining iron bands
That traverse the bellying panels, speak
Of the pressure of unseen hands.
Fronting and flanking, before, beside,
Safe at your distance awhile at least,
Your gathering legions tramp and ride
Like vultures that scent the feast.
Boastful, and brave as a brute is brave,
As I have lived shall I also die —
With never a pang for the griefs I gave,
Or the soul I have lost thereby !
Yet shall I sickle you many a row
In the harvest of havoc, and lies, and lust,
Ere I reel to the shadows—as all things go—
And my blond head beat the dust.
Savagely sullen, uncaptivate,
Tawny and bloodied, steeleu to endure,
Stricken, but great as the brute is great,
1 stand to the end —be sure!
Hither and there, in your Senate-halls,
Chattering, senile, greybeard men
Gossip of deeds ere the winter falls
And the snows be come again!
Hence I have watched them, the while they
diced
With Death at the table, each to each,
Naming me robber and Antichrist.
Forging the sword of speech !
See where 1 stand for the taking! Strike
Suddenly, secretly, where you will!
Though it shall cost you the price, belike,
Strike for the heart and kill!
AN hen you have slain me—if so ye may !
Fashion a grave for me, wide and deep
Hide me securely with turf and clay >
And grey stones piled in a heap ;
Build you a fire above, around
The marks of my blood in the sodden
plain—
Lest from that seed and the shattered ground
I shall arise again !
Sear me with' steel, and my blood with fire,
Yet shall your children’s children tell
How that I trampled your best to mire,
Made of your worst a hell.
Lessoned you first that the gentle game
You cherished from old to the times that
be,
Calling it war, was to war the same
As tears to the winter sea.
Read you the craft of the greater chase,
Burned on the hearts of the things you
love—
That he would stand by the War-God’s grace
Strikes not with a silken glove!
Lore I have taught; you, whereof not least
Shall this go down to the lesser day—
How should ye fear to outvie the least
If a bestial game ye play?
And wherefore baulk at a deed half-done.
Like dull-brained clods with a purpose
dull?
I have whetted my talons, and seen the sun;
I have ravaged and feasted full!
Tending and tilling my herds and lands
The folk of my little duchies strove.
Offering duty with eager hands —
I cared not for their love! —
Gentle of heart as their hands were hard,
This big, soft people of simple worth.
And I plotted to crown theip. aftenvard.
Salt of the white man’s earth:
Therefore I took them, and bade them sing
Songs of the sword for their vineyard-
tunes,
Ordered them, hot for the conquering.
_ln a myriad proud platoons.
Now, with their patience overpast
In the hate of my rule that this late day
brings,
They are my judges, whose love I cast
Out from my scheme of things!
For their facile kin that I took and used
Who are rotting bodies beneath the mud.
For pride of caste, and for power abused,
They cry for my living blood!
The shot bolts quiver, the planking strains.
The jamb-stones weaken and split and
flaw,
The sluggish blood from my slow heart
drains
Like snow in the springtide thaw.
Shoulder and sinew and slacking hand
Struggle to answer the spurring will.
Swaying on wide-braced feet I stand
Failing, but fierce, to kill.
Come, for I wait, and I fain would die
Slain by the mercy my foes afford.
Rather than blame of my blood should lie
Red on my people’s sword!
For out from the portal my dulled eyes see.
Through tottering timbers that twist and
splay,
Plucking the pins of the hinges free.
. Tearing the bars away,
Wraiths of the wrongs of an iron past
Over the clamoring threshold pour.
And I learn, in the long, red wrath at last.
What waits behind the door!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
A RELIGION OF LAUGHTER.
Dear Bulletin, —The recent demand of a
prominent Scotchbyterian cleric for a
general brightening up of religious church
services suggests that the element of
mirth has been sadly left out of the
programme. This was perhaps inevitable.
The religious systems that have mastered
the world all came from Asia; and Asia is
a very serious continent, with a poor idea
of a joke and an amazingly poor sense of
the ridiculous. Yet while all the so-called
moral forces have been at work, while men
have been summoned to faitli and prayer
and self-sacrifice, the plain fact seems to
stand out about a mile over all the contro-
versies and creeds and commandments that
laughter is the one saving thing in this world,
and that the deeds of men towards om*
another are black or white precisely in the
proportion in which laughter is absent or
present. “By their deeds ye shall know
them’' may be an excellent gauge of the
moral standard of a people; but “By their
grin ye may measure them” would have as
much practical force- and be a good deal
easier to apply.
The old Puritan -who wrote “For
the world, I hold it a place not to live in.
but to die in ; an hospital, not an inn,” put
the solid gloom on things in a manner that
can still win applause where the elect meet
to deplore the laughter of the times. But
with modern laughter has come sanitation,
better social laws, wider individual freedom,
a diminution of crime, a kindlier feeling
between man and man, and a thousand things
which no religion of blackness and human
despair could ever attain. And all this makes
it tolerably evident that mirth must be the
centre of any religion which can put its spell
on the great future. The solemnities are
done with. The force that can make a man
live with a grin on his face and die with
wholesome laughter on his lips is the one
which offers salvation to mankind. For
mankind is wholly ridiculous, and man at
his highest and best knows himself to be so.
The top-heavy animal with tufts of his
primeval fur still adhering to him in places
who puts a tail to his dress-coat because his
own was worn off with sitting down to ponder
the amazing absurdity of himself, cannot be
taken seriously in the light of moon and
stars and icecream and the Kaiser and the
victory of the Win-the-War party. Judged
on the animal plane, man looks futile and
insane. Most of him could never catch his
prey in a forest teeming with game; and if
he denied his canine teeth and declared for
pure vegetarianism he couldn’t pick out with-
out the aid of books and a chemist’s labora-
tory the leaves and fruit that would sustain
life from those that meant sudden death.
The thing that a wild pig knows by instinct
man couldn’t learn in 12 years of careful
study; and a kitten three weeks old has a
better chance of living on its own resources
1 ban a bank-clerk turned loose on a desert
island. Judged on the intellectual and spiri-
tual plane, however, man looks a lot worse.
That the person who is supposed to appre-
ciate poetry and art and music, and to be
capable of continuous and organised think-
ing. should still go out after his enemy in
exactly the spirit of a wild boar or infuri-
ated bantam rooster, is bad enough ; but that
he should glory in doing so and regard as the
top heroism the sacrifice of his own life in a
bloody mauling at the hands of the opposing
human pack, appears to be the final and
supreme jest of the ages.
To get the right-angle on things and
see where the laugh really comes in
means genuine progress. If the world
in general, and the Kaiser in particular,
had possessed a sense of humor the
present war could never have started. Ger-
many was pretty solemn —its love for the
always-ridiculous sausage is proof if it. In
its alleged humorous newspapers it mistook
the mere mention of insanitary things for
wit, and grunted heavily over its beer at the
plain obscenity which other peoples recoiled
from as poisonous. But even with the Ger-
man countenance permanently wreathed in
dullness, the war could hardly have been
possible if other nations had appreciated the
absurdity of things. Britain, bowing in fat
of Cobpen and singing “Rule
Britannia” to the accompaniment of waving
paper flags, was an amusing circumstance in
the universal vaudeville. But Britain was
supremely unconscious of anything ridicu-
lous in her attitude, and went on nursing a
Nonconformist Conscience, and reading
Rudyard Kipling, and making vague bleat-
ings about_ “Empire,” while the foe sharp-
ened his. mirthless gun. One good and honest
international laugh might have saved the
situation; but the article was not supplied,
though the material was lying everywhere
around out of which a million laughs might
have been made. If the purpose of religion
be ; as the very name asserts, to bind some-
thing fast, and that something is presumed
to be morality, the effect of mirth on -the
individual is clearly to produce the ethical
uplift that all religions have striven for, but
■which only in rare instances they have suc-
ceeded in producing. To a man with a pro-
perly-developed sense of humor there can be
no need for the Ten Commandments, nor for
25. _ The absurdity of crime is the moral pro-
tection against it. That a human creature
in a bobtailed coat with hair on the top of
him, and feeble and useless claws on the
ends of his fingers, should go abroad with his
feet in boxes made out of portions of cow
and steal the affections of another human
creature with more hair and even less claws
who belongs to somebody else in another bob-
tailed coat, ps obviously too ridiculous to be
thought of. So the divorce-court recedes as
the sense of humor grow r s. The laughable
inanity of theft, murder and lying must also
cause these arts to disappear from human
reckonings. The doctrine of living for your
neighbor never quite caught the fancy of
mankind; but the desire to preserve your
neighbor because he clowns so absurdly and
well is a fine incentive to the world-wide
brotherhood of cheerful lunacy which seems
to be the best the race can ever hope for-
And so in comes about that the man who
can make us laugh is the pure prophet, and
that the great priesthood of mirth must give
the world its future impulse towards right-
eousness. The awful calamity of machine-


made jest which theatrical conspirators ex-
ploit for deadly solemn greed of gain is
merely a passing phase of the upward evolu-
tion. In the brave days to come the real
comedian may arise; and. even though it
cost a revolution of blood, a theatrical mana-
ger may yet be forced to the front whose
mind is less dreary than the funeral of an
undertaker. Then it will not matter much
whether there is a clown in the pulpit or a
harlequin at the reading-desk ; for the church
of the people will be where the larger laugh-
ter is steadily on tap. And, while the fat
sides of the jolly future shake, the old out-
of-work Devil will blow hot on his solemn
Nonconformist Conscience and wonder at
the new Grace of God that has given man a
truly workable religion at last.—Yours, etc.,
Curse o’ Moses.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Enterprise’s Habit of Moving Meals
About.
An alarmed squeak was heard the other day
from Melbourne and another from Maori-
land. It transpired (1) that so much but-
ter had been hurried away from the Com-
monwealth that the supply in store for
local consumption was running short; and
(2) that owing to a shortage of transport
Maoriland stores were bulging with butter,
ind great apprehension was felt by some-
one or other that if the collection inside
was not ?ot rid of Cocky would have to
trant Strawberry a holiday while the
country fell into ruin and decay. Where-
fore the Australian cow proprietor was
urged to extract increased quantities of the
raw material for butter-making from his
animals and fill the void, and the Maori-
land Ministry was exhorted to acquire more
ships to carry the surplus to Britain or a
watery grave. This is a very interesting
situation. It seems that Australia has
been able to get rid of so much butter this
year that butter will have to be imported'
to give the population a chance of lubricat-
ing its crust. Conversely—Maoriland butter
has moved off so slowly that, unless the
accumulation melts or the local inhabitant
is encouraged by the dealers’ increasing prices
to devour larger quantities, the stacks of
butter over yonder may topple over into the
Pacific. And as Maoriland has just bought
1,500,000 bushels of wheat from Australia,
and the Commonwealth has enough grain on
hand to feed the populace and myriads of
mice for several years, supply, and demand
all round appears to be tied up in a knot,
and the necessity for much lifting about and
pulley-hauling boxes and bags about is firmly
established. Where the advantage is to
Australia of rushing butter a wav over the
waves and dragging more butter' back, and
to Maoriland of being covered with butter
and short of wheat, may be left to be
explained by the Argtjs. In the meantime
there is a point about all this business which
should give the numerous Governments of
Australia a tip about how employment may
be “pi’ovided for the people” in the event
of Cohen turning sour. This is to export
all the. cheese, jam, butter, metals, leather,
wool, timber, hides, fruit, boots, hats, collars
and everything else grown or produced in
the six States, making use of any article
that had not travelled 6000 miles in a ship
a penal offence. Then the national require-
ments could be met by buying these articles
somewhere else, thus giving employment to
thousands of citizens carting things about,
boxing them up, prying them out of cases,
driving waggons and vans, acting as tally
clerks, building premises to hold and take
delivery of consignments in and out, writing
out insurance policies, preparing claims for
rebates, losses through theft, depreciation or
short delivery. The whole continent would
throb with excitement and business. Mean-
while the use of ships becomes necessary to
recover for Australia some of the butter
which should not have been sent away, and
achieving for Maoriland the supply of wheat
that was not grown because butter which
cannot be got rid of was, manufactured in-
stead. And if the meaning of all this is
not that an excessive quantity of shipping
is being used to do twice over things which
could easily have been omitted while the
ships were allowed to do what has not been
done while they were doing these other
superfluous jobs, then the time is ripe for a
foreign-trade fiend to explain the general
disorder.
•
“The Situation,” Seen Through Blue*
tinted Glasses.
In the early days of the present offen-
sive we talked of blowing the Germans
off the face of France, or words to that effect.
It suited slackers to assume that British
artillery had asserted an immense superiority
and would, whenever it was called upon,
smash any possible German position to
smithereens. But there was small comfort
for slackers in some of last week’s news from
the Western Front. Beach Thomas wired
to England: “The weight of the Ger-
man artillery is still a feature of the situa-
tion.” And what said the Council of Work-
men and Soldiers’ delegates at Petrograd?
“It is evident that German Imperialism,
after defeating the Western Allies, will turn
on us, seize the country, and enslave Rus-
sians.” In the face of Thomas’s statement
and the pessimistic Russian prediction, it
seems absurd to talk of blowing the Huns
out of France this year. As for the reports
from Holland of “Socialist” speeches in the
German Reichstag, they must be read in the
light of a prior warning from Switzerland.
Two of the untrustworthy Socialists, so-
called, talked of a “revolution” and a “repub-
lic,” and they were not promptly arrested
as they would have been had they meant what
they said. Apparently Messrs. Scheide-
mann and Ledebour were leading players
in the “stage-managed revolutionary move-
ment” w-hich, according to the warning issued
from Switzerland three weeks before, was
about to be put up by the German Govern-
ment in order to fool the Allies in general,
and the Russians in particular. Note how
carefully the German censorship deleted a
passage from Chancellor Bethmann:Hol-
weg’s speech, in order that the deletion
might be emphasised when it was subse-
quently cabled from dear old Amsterdam.
The Chancellor artfully cried, “I will not
be diverted from the proper path by Herr
Schiedemann’s threat of a revolution.” It
was just the theatrical performance that the
Allies had been told to expect. Methodical
German craft, or artfulness, appears crude
enough when the test of shrewd suspicion is
applied to it. It works by means of con-
spiratorial newspaper reports and the aid of
trembling neutrals. The Chancellor doesn't
talk to the Parliament; he talks to the world,
and the lie that he wants to rub specially
hard into the world’s credulity is carefully
deleted from the speech that is wired to
Amsterdam, with a view to the inevitable
report of the omission that will follow. What
has become of the “famine” in Germany
these last few weeks, and the shortage of
metals which was said to be acute nearly
three years ago, and the separate peace that
Austria was said to be seeking at the
beginning of this year, and all other com-
forting developments which existed only in
reports from Amsterdam? They were
myths to suit the slackers and blind the
eyes of optimistic patriots to the truth that
the British Empire is in a tough plight and
that German designs on Australia and Africa
are as much alive as ever they were, although
their growth has been stunted. Germany
counts on recovering her lost colonies for
certain, and she expects to have powerful
naval bases in the Pacific in the not-distant
future. She argues on the war map, whilst
the slackers argue on their cold feet that
the fight is still being won by inches on the
Western Front.
4
Weighing Christianity.
W. M. Fleming, M.H.R., writes :
Re “Christianity Deceased” (B. 10/5/’l7). When
you approach the heart of the matter, you say, “The
gentle and beautiful religion became a creed.” Cer-
tainly with many, possibly with most, it did become
a creed. That is exactly what led to this ghastly
war. That the priests and peoples have so largely
made a creed—a cruel, bitter creed —out of, as you
rightly put it, a “gentle and beautiful religion”—
condemns not the religion but man's wrong-headed-
ness. You know of throwbacks. We stockbreeders
are constantly meeting with them amongst the lower
animals. This war is a throwback in human exist-
ence. It is not that Christianity has failed, but
that so far man has failed to absorb it, that he has
evolved along flic moral side much less rapidly than
he has travelled along the road of mechanical inven-
tions and commercial expansion. We have got
things out of focus. A little more of the religion—
perhaps a little less of the creed —and we would
have avoided the war. Man is a fighting animal; and
with a wider and fuller acceptance, a truer under-
standing of Christianity, he would have long since
learned that there are other things much more worth
fighting than is his fellow man.
That the officials of Christianity have, for a
generation deplored its decline, is not strictly true.
They have deplored the loosening hold of the priest-
hood. They continue to do so with more and more
grief. That by no means proves that our religion
is losing its hold. Christianity began and remains
not a matter of priests but of public morality; and
you certainly hit the mark when you state that: “This
noble faith is unable to prevent the nations plunging
into a dreadful war,” and “For the last three years
the world has plunged back into the welter of bar-
barism, preceding the beginning of the Christian era.”
That is, I think, the complete answer to your con-
clusion. War in some shape is inevitable, and will
always remain so; but this fratricide amongst civil-
ised peoples is the outcome of the teachings of those
who would revert to the religion of Thor and Womx.
As already stated, it is a reversion to type. And
when a good stockbreeder gets a reversion to an
undesirable type he eliminates all chance of that
reversion propagating its kind. He does not weakly
sit down and say that his plan of breeding is a
failure. Guided by experience he goes on to better
things by wiser handling of his material. There may
possibly be a better religion than Christianity in the
yet undreamed-of wonders of the future, but, if so, it
is a long way off. This war has proved, not that
Christianity is a failure, but that man has not yet
understood it sufficiently to be capable of absorbing
its full beauty, as he certainly will need to do before
he can be ready to receive any possible higher and
holier thing that may yet descend from Heaven
to bestow its blessings on the human race.
To which The Bulletin replies that if,
after 1900 years of Christianity, “man has
so far failed to absorb it,” there must be
something wrong either about Christianity
or mankind.
A Plea for the Liberation of Kings.
“Pat O’Maori” puts a case:—
Is there no philanthropist who will start a crusade
for the emancipation of kings? Slavery is abolished,
serfdom exists only in a modified form in a very
few countries, and everywhere oppression is growing
scarcer and man given a show to stand on his own
feet and assert his own will. Consider the case of
a constitutional sovereign. He is born into absolute
and abject servitude to an idea, and, although thou-
sands nominally do his bidding, the bidding itself
must be exercised in so narrow a field that it amounts
to nothing. In return for the complete and life-long-
loss of his liberty a king is allowed to wear a gold
hat and whiskers —the latter having become the in-
signia of waybacks and monarchs. A king cannot
pick his own wife, shape out a career for himself or
wiu fame, honor or genuine affection in any walk of
life. He cannot be an expert at games, because any
loyal subject' would hesitate to beat a sovereign ; he
cannot be an athlete and know the thrill of contest
in a public arena; he cannot hope to shine as a poet,
a musician or a painter because anything he did
in those lines would win applause beyond all his
deserts merely on the grounds that a king did it;
No king may get drunk in the cheer of ordinary
pubs, lose himself in the bush, tour with a company
of down-at-heel theatrical barnstormers, taste the
fare at anarchistic cafes, take a hand in a debate
at the Y.M.C.A. rooms, make love to a dainty young
thing in the summer moonlight of the beach, or do
any of the ordinary things permitted to any free
citizen. A king cannot choose his religion, vote at
elections, stand for Parliament or reap any of the
harvest of liberty for which the great martyr in the
cause of Man died. Much has been written of the
democratic advance made when despotism gave place
to limited monarchy; but the real question which
has not had the limelight but which deserves to be
answered is whether any democracy lias the right for
its own comfort and safety to so far degrade a man
as to make him a king. Mercy, which is now the
prerogative of crowds and not of monarchs, ought to
be exercised here and a vast movement inaugurated
for the liberation of kings. If the glittering and
servile functions of the constitutional monarch fill
any real or valuable part in the scheme of things, an
automaton of some kind might surely be invented to
wear the crown; but, without attempting to labor
the point, the job of kingship could surely be
intrusted to someone who would not find the restric-
tions of office intolerable as long as the royal bones
or regal hay were in plentiful supply. The cause of
kings is the cause of manhood. No member of the
world-wide democracy has a right to impose on
another burdens which he would he unwilling to
carry himself.
A Great Industry and a Chance for
Australia.
There is talk about the Federal Govern-
ment inducing someone or other to start on
a shipbuilding campaign, with a view to
“mitigating the effects of the submarine and
supplying Britain with food.” The subject,
is being inquired into, and more will be
heard about it later on. Meanwhile there
are more or less futile yarns going round
concerning the construction of wooden ves-
sels and composite vessels, and a local genius
has come forward in Melbourne with a
scheme for carrying on the inter-State trade
of Australia with barges, towed round the
coast like a string of sausages by one or
two steamers after all the others now in
commission had been despatched to the Atlan-
tic. Pending information about the velocity
with which vessels of the barge or any other
type can be run off the stocks in Australia
it may be taken as probable that the amount
of mitigation inflicted on the submarine by
the _ arrival of Australian-built ships iu
British waters is not likely to win the war.
And it is quite possible that if J. Bull gets
to the stage at which he has to place depend-
ence on the arrival of these craft with grub,
the situation generally will look mighty blue.
The building of ocean-going ships fit to carry
perishable products is not a business to be
put into full blast by mere talk. All the
same, the idea of getting this enterprise on
to a practical basis is one the Federal Gov-
ernment should be encouraged to persevere
with. Fiddling about with windjammers
would be mere waste of time. It is the
steel-plated, high-powered steamer that the
Commonwealth wants now and will require
in large numbers when the war is over, no
matter how it may end, or when. The
material is here in Australia, the continent
is encircled by wet and there are innumerable
suitable places for building ships far larger
than have yet been launched from Austra-
lian yards. Work and imagination alone
are necessary to expand the equipment
already on the premises. The demand fox-
shipping at the end of the war will be as
insistent as the howl for rain in'a drought.
There will be a shipping famine, and unless
the Commonwealth gets busy noio the nation
will pay through the nose for the service of
ships built and owned in other counti-ies.
There is opportunity here for the Govern-
ment to do big things, and if it does then:
the gain to Australia will be enormous. Other
countries build steamers. Why not Austra-
lia? This paper knows of no reason. Bill
it has a strong suspicion that to make a
start with the intention of building Austra
lian freighters and passenger steamers at the
same gait as a vessel called the Brisbane
was put together would be plain lunacy.
*.
The Religion of Billjim.
'‘3227”: From time to time during the past
three years there have appeared articles
descriptive of the characteristics, emotions
and tastes of Bill.jim. Only a few of
these, however, have mentioned his religion,
and then in such a manner as to suggest
that at heart he is irreligious. He is not.
His language may be in the strenuous cir-
cumstances more lurid than in pre-war days
and his morals a little slackened (not too
much stress on this, though, please), yet his
hold on deiinite faith is stronger than before
the riot. Nearly every member of the A.I.F.
possesses and uses some simple book of devo-
tion issued by one or other denomination.
These are much more popular than Bibles
because they are not so conspicuous.
Billjim seldom kneels down in the publicity
of his billet or hut to say his prayers; yet.
on the other hand, unlike the Tommies, he
will never interfere with a man who does.
Then, too, Billjim has no time for blas-
phemy. The roughest soldier wall call on
a shickered mate indulging in blasphemy to
"cut it out.” Our Bill is taking a greater
interest in his own particular ideas of
religion than he ever did before. He judges
his padre as he does his mate, and provided
the padre comes up to the standard of a
“sport” Bill will work both with and for
him, even to the extent of outwardly con-
forming to practices he had well-nigh for-
gotten or even to attendance at extra ser-
vices out of parade hours. As to the con-
tention that the churches have not come up
to Bill.tim’s expectations-ywell, Billjim is
more than satisfied. In their choice of
padres the churches have been either fortu-
nate or careful, or both, for they have cer-
tainly given of their best. In dug-out or
billet the Australian soldier very frequently
drifts into informal arguments that range
over a wide field of religious subjects, and
practically all hands and the cook stand for
the orthodox. The fact that the boys can
swear while discussing sacred subjects does
not denote any irreverence. It is merely
their unconscious way of showing all-in
sincerity. Believe me, Billjim is as sincere
in his religion as he is in everything else. .
«
The Tribulations of an Awakened Bear.
For a week or two after Czardom collapsed
gasometers laden with hot air were explod-
ing all over the world. The fall of an old
tyranny looked like something to be enthusi-
astic about. Wherefore earnest democrats
rejoiced at the astounding spectacle of a
nation moving in a day from medievalism to
constitutional freedom, arriving into 1917 at
a bound, so to speak, from the Dark Ages.
Had not the earthquake been caused by the
spread of democratic ideals among the Rus-
sian millions, and by their hatred of Ger-
manic influences and their fear that unless
they took charge of the situation the war
would be waged with insufficient intensity
to prevent disaster? They sounded all very
well, these yarns about a Bear casting off
his chains and governing himself and impart-
ing more ginger to the fight. But what was
going to happen next was in the circum-
stances of the hour a lot more important
than what had occurred to the Romanoffs.
In its historical setting the revolution of the
other day may probably be an imposing inci-
dent. At present it looks a calamitous sort
of affair of which the end may be anything.
It may even only be a phase of the revolu-
tion in which Russia has lived for genera-
tions, and may yet be doomed to endure for
more generations. History teems with the
records of revolutions that were merely a
step towards ruin—with as many more that
only emerged from chaos after prolonged and
bloody struggles. If the revolution suc-
ceeds in Russia R will be the most amazing
thing of the kind ever known, for there is no
parallel to such a disturbance. It would
mean a people who know nothing of repre-
sentative government suddenly putting this
device of modern democracies into working
order—a people, too, who in the mass are
illiterate and superstitious. What the world
sees now is a disordered rabble vaguely grop-
ing about in the dark. The lesson of it all
seems to be one that is as ancient as this
weary old earth—that the force that wants
to sweep something away without first know-
ing what is going to occupy the vacancy is
calling tenders for tragedy.
Tasmanian casualties in the recent Labor
debacle are ex-Speaker Woods (“John
Drayman”), ex-Lands Minister Belton,
and ex-“ Whip” Ben Watkins. Of these,
Woods and Watkins have been members of
the State Assembly since 1906; Belton
dates from 1909. All three, with the late
C. R. Howroyd (vrho died before the declara-
tion of the poll for Darwin, after defeating
Kink O’Malley), resigned from the State
Parliament on the strength of an Electoral
Bill having passed both Houses giving them
the right to resume their seats if they were
unsuccessful in the Federal contest. " This
Bill has been for months awaiting the King’s
assent, but whether George V. is .too busy, or
whether the Bill has been submarined some-
where, nobody seems to know. In any case
it is doubtful that the assent will arrive in
time to obviate the need for holding the by-
elections necessary for the filling of the
vacancies created by the four resignations
mentioned, and for the vacancy left by the
recently-deceased Burgess. Tassy’s present
Electoral Act provides that the writ to fill
the latter kind of vacancy must issue within
10 days of the death of the member, and it
has been so issued. The same Act permits
(or compels) the delay of the writs for the
other seats until the Federal poll is officially
declared. The Crown Law authorities have
wrestled with the tangle and have decided
that the simple plan of issuing writs for the
whole five vacancies on the same date, thus
saving time and money, could not be followed
because of the fat-headed wording of the Act
A Territory for a Peanut.
Randolph Bedford writes :
The Commonwealth Parliament, busy as it may be
with winning the war, will have to take at least
one clay off to settle two domestic problems—that of
Canberra, and more importantly and urgently, that
of the Territory. The Territory is most important,
because its development will be the big factor in the
maintenance of White Australia, a principle on
which Cook, Irvine, Watt and others of the success-
ful junta are known to be more than suspect. The
people who made the worst fist of Canberra were
all imported—the spread-eagled O’Malley now for
the good health of Labor purged from it; the
raucous Webster, who wasted quarts of money
in alterations at the deplorable Post Office
while saving a few pounds gathering up ends of
string and drippings of sealing-wax; and the calam-
itous Hindmarsh, unfortunately re-elected on his
promise to Win the War. The fight at Canberra was
the fight between Australians and an imported man
whose plan, so far as I could see, of the work
already done, and of its contempt for contour and
natural features, is the plan of a city very fair to
see from an aeroplane and damnably uncomfortable
to live in. There is only one Government for Can-
berra, government by commission during the con-
structional period; a commission of an architect, an
engineer, a real estate man, and an agricultural man.
As helpers, the Government might call in a member
or two of the Inter-State Commission, which, since
its tariff report was put into cold storage, seems to
have dropped its bundle, or fallen down a crack or
hidden itself in a gasometer.
The position of the Northern Territory is more
serious, more dangerous, more urgent of supervision.
The administration of the present crowd demands
searching inquiry, but all the charges can be passed
here with this tabulation: Lunatic waste of money on
experimental farms ; the loan of a Government ship
to a missionary that became wreckage (the ship, not
the missionary), the semi-wreck being then repaired
at Government’s expense; the third degree on a
native prisoner to make him plead guilty on a
murder charge ; the growing slackness of the Aborig-
ines’ Protection Department; the general hostility of
an imported administrator and his imported staff to
Australians in the Territory. My evidence of these
things may be capable of rebuttal, but there is a
concrete case of disloyalty to the spirit and the
letter of Australian law and Australian sentiment
which I know of my knowledge. Hughes, who
once dared not mention Imperial Federation, now
says that the Imperial Federation policy is a policy
for the whole of the British Empire which should
cover every phase of our national, social and
economic life. Our “national life”—Australia gov-
erned partly by a Parliament in which Australian
representation would be negligible; our “economic”
life—a tariff amounting to the Freetvade policy of a
Welshman who once, and once only, was a Protec-
tionist, and that in support of a duty on grindstones.
P. McMahon Glynn is hereby asked to publish
any papers in the old External Affairs Depart-
ment relating to the proposed purchase of
the Territory by a syndicate if they be not
destroyed; and Frank Tudor is asked to get to the
last comma of the offer. Australia's first line of
weakness is in its expensive Customs House crying
to foreign goods “welcome” ; its second line of
weakness will be found in any inclination to listen
to syndicates anxious to buy an Empire for a
peanut. I demand the official head of Dr. Gilruth,
without bloodthirstiness, but as earnestly as Marat
demanded 100,000 aristocrat heads for the good of
the country. The proper Government of the Terri-
tory is by a commission of three Australians—pref-
erably Queenslanders, or men with a knowledge of
the North, and I demand that an imported Excel-
lency shall not be reappointed.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liauidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named _ Disti
lery, the Stocks of Whisky. Goodwill. Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
mid that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.s
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Australia’s Loveliest Jewel
BLACK OPAL,
found at Lightning Ridge, New South Wales.
Its beauty, fire and brilliancy are unsurpassed by
any other jewel.
It is truly the “Orchid” of Gems.
We receive it direct from the mines.
We cut it in Sydney.
We mount it on the premises.
You are invited to see our collection of Aus-
tralian Jewels.
Fine Black Opal
and Blue-white Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, £l5.
Choice Black Opal
and fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£3O.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER ST REET.
The Lee Government has also discovered
that separate elections must be held for each
seat, even where two vacancies have occurred
at the same time in the same electorate, as
is the case in Denison (Woods’s and Bur-
gess’s). So there are to be five separate
elections for five seats, with the almost
inevitable result that the Liberals will secure
the whole batch, though they are only fairly
entitled to one of the five (Burgess’s). Four
Labor constituencies (quotas) will thus be
disfranchised for a couple of years or so. not
because those constituencies, or quotas, have
changed their minds, but because under the
Speck’s peculiar electoral law, other con-
stituencies. already fully represented in
Parliament, may have a- say in something
which doesn’t in the least concern them.
The British Pantry and the Fight
Everlasting.
The news about the submarine menace
sounds better. Whether John Bull is bag-
ging any considerable number may be
doubtful, but there seems at least reasonable
ground for concluding that he has devised
methods of attack which induce Fritz to
refrain from sticking his nose up from below’
with the original frequency. Still the
figures with reference to reported sinkings
are of very superficial value. If it. w r ere
known how many vessels came within the
torpedo zone in given w’eeks, how many of
these w’ere food ships, what quantity of grub
disappeared, and how much reached shore, it
would be possible to get the hang of the posi-
tion. In the absence of these essential facts
the only thing to rely on is the reported
utterances of Ministers, and the essence of
these is that the position is better than it
was but is still unpleasantly blue. It may
turn out that the effectiveness of the
blockade will turn quite as much upon the
degree of thoroughness with which the food
available is distributed, as upon the smart-
ness of gunners in hitting periscopes. The
Germans hold to the view that there is no
radical cure for the submarine. This may be
so; but organisation on land may go a long way
towards providing a palliative in the mean-
time. For the present, Britain seems to be a
long way more certain of three plain meals a
day than of what is going to occur the day
after to-morrow in the direction of Poland
and over beyond the Carpathians. Possibly
Russia may wake up. Whatever transpires
in the neighborhood of the trenches will be a
much more reliable indication of the Bear’s
doings than conflicting yarns about political
fuses at the capital. If w’hat is occurring to
Von Hindenberg at his Western address
was afflicting him on the other side of the
disturbance he would certainly be a very
worried Hun. That he is getting severely
mauled thereabouts is much less open to
argument than how much more mauling he
can stand. According to Lord Derby the
war is not going to be over until Uncle Sam
hurls as much of himself as can be made
available into the scrum. This may possibly
be an expression of opinion for the special
encouragement of enlistment in Yankeeland,
but it looks a mighty long way nearer
the truth than the forecasts about the
enemy collapsing on or before October 14.
If there are any signs of him collapsing they
are not visible to the naked eye. Aus-
tralians will probably have observed that in
Canada a proposal to reinforce the Canuks
by the selective draft is in the region of
practical polities. Apparently the Canadian
Ministry neither funks its job nor has a
theory that the time to start winning the
war is when some overwhelming disaster
arrives. All of which is an illustration of
the difference between doing something and
blithering about it.
“0.K.”: The series of mutual contradic-
tions between Premier Hughes and his
former colleague, Mahon, has resulted in an
interesting revelation concerning enemy
aliens. A year ago, as now appears, Robert
G ARRAN drafted three supplementary War
Precautions Regulations inimical to enemy
aliens in their business dealings, or industrial
. pursuits. The regulations provided that the
consent of the Attorney-General must, be
obtained before certain kinds of legal actions
could be taken in court, thus: —
1. Any action upon a contract for the sale or
delivery of goods which was certified by the Attorney-
General to be, in his opinion, unfair by reason of
the defendant having entered into any agreement or
undertaking with the Imperial Government or the
Munitions Board.
2. Any action upon anything said or done, imply-
ing that the plaintiff was an enemy subject or a
person of enemy origin or association, etc.
3. Any action against an employer or association
for refusal to employ or associate with the plaintiff,
on the grounds that he was or had been an enemy
subject.
When these and three other regulations were
put before the Cabinet four of them were
promptly approved and passed into law. But
Mahon told Garran that the Cabinet had
held up items 2 and 3 for further considera-
tion. One member, or more, of the Govern-
ment objected to any obstacle being put in
the legal way of an alleged enemy subject. 01
person of enemy alien connection, who had
been called a German over the back fence
or had been refused employment on the
ground that he, or she, was a German.
This tender regard for the feelings and
interests of Germanised citizens with enemy
alien sympathies has been a matter ior com-
plaint against the Defence Dept, all the
time. What right of action has an alien
disloyalist against an employer or unionist
worker who refuses to associate with him
these times? The Huns at war have robbed
thousands of inoffensive foreigners of their
homes, happiness and liberty and as long
as it isn’t actionable to call a Chinaman a
Chow, or to ostracise him from the indus-
trial circle on account of his nationality. an
Australian prejudice against Huns and their
sympathisers is no reasonable cause for legal
action. At least a suggestion of the
sins of their nation should be visited
upon its children, yet the Australian
Cabinet took a fortnight to make up
its mind that a German disloyalist
had no claim to damages against the em-
ployer or union that might refuse _to let
him mutter his hymn of hate in their com-
pany. The revelation is not sufficiently
explicit.
“Jacko” : The belated admission of Minister
for Education James that the N. S. Wales
continuation-school system has shown itself
a failure, that “those who most need a con-
tinuance of education do not come within its
influence” is cheering, I rejoice too that he has
awakened to the fact that “after the war
Australia will have to compete on industrial
and intellectual lines with the rest of the
world.” This wheels the whole subject on
to the operating-table. James wants to
know why only a mere 2000 of the 10,000
16-years-and-under youngsters who leave
school annually do not attend the continua-
tion classes? The Department itself is
large!}' to blame. While at school the kid
is indiscriminately treated to all kinds of
intellectual fancy goods, and when he has to
start work he finds that he has a lot of
unsaleable knowledge in stock. So he has
to start his education which he thought he
had finished. It takes an exceptional
youngster to plod along to a continuation
school at night; the ordinary boy or girl
shirks it, and so remains half-educated. The
remedy lies within the Department itself.
Let it take its primary and secondary cur-
ricula down and substitute new _ ideas
in tune with the altered conditions.
Since the typical school-kid is permitted
to leave his studies for any blind-
alley job. I would suggest thht he be
encouraged in any direction which suits his
temperament and talents. The Minister says
that his Department is “contemplating
insistence on pupils leaving school being
placed in avocations that would fit
them for life.” Let him give up contempla-
tion of the impracticable and start right
away with the grafting of the junior and
senior technical college courses on to the
primary and high schools, and permit the
kids to divide their time between the prac-
tical and the academic, with the wasteful
cramming in things that don’t matter cut
out. That’s all we need to give the young-
sters a chance of becoming valuable Aus-
tralians.
“Viator” : The last hundred miles of the
East-West line are now being laid over lime-
stone plain, straight as an arrow. There are
330 miles without a curve —the longest
straight run on earth. When the last spike
has been driven, the Overland will move
from Augusta to Kalgoorlie in 24 hours;
Adelaide to Augusta in 13 hours; Kalgoorlie
to Perth in 16. At the Augusta end the
line is already bringing in revenue from
cattle traffic.
The late Louis Ellis, formerly Sheriff of
Melbourne, went to Melbourne from Sydney
in ’46, when the settlement by the Yarra
belonged to N. S. Wales, and was generally
referred to as “the chief town of Port
Phillip.” Ellis’s quarters were at the corner
of Collins and Market streets, and Johnny
Fawkner’s paper was published next door in
Collins-street. Over the way, in Market-
street, were the stocks; and Ellis used to tell
how he had seen two men fixed up there.
His first billet was in the office of Duerdin,
the solicitor, whose son was one of the
founders of the Yorick Club. Ellis’s connec-
tion with the sheriff’s office began in ’52,
when he became a junior clerk, and two
years later he became Deputy Sheriff at 22,
under Claude Farie. He stuck to the rope-
haunted office till ’95, when he retired, after
43 years’ work —three of them as boss. His
wife was the daughter of a Melbourne par-
son, and one of his daughters became Dr.
Constance Ellis.
[For any unsigned Plain English and other para-
graphs which require a signature under the Electoral
Act, S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built
Palace “Turn to the Right
Tivnii * Mclntosh’s VautieviHi? Co.
Sr:::.:.
llovr’s Theatre Moving } ictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Three Twins ’
Royal “London Pride
Princess’s “The Bunyip
Kino’s “Very Cood Eddie
'l'ivou Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
ilovT’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
\l\tfstic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“London Pride,” introduced to Australia
at Melb. Royal on Saturday, explains its
popularity in its birthplace. It is an idyllic
romance of Cockney life, and its humor is
racy of the soil. The trouble with the pre-
sent performance is that most of the actors
are out of their element. Even Miss Atherton,
who puts all the necessary feeling into the
part of Cherry, is much too refined in her
style for a gal as thinks nothin’ of driving
a donkey cart. She idealises the coster girl
whilst Percy Marmont is presenting a bloke
who is as near to truth as you want it on
the stage. The two principals are admir-
able in the melodramatic scenes more than
in the broadly humorous bits. To some of
the others the spirit of the play is so alto-
gether foreign that the general effect seems
bound to improve with practice, wherefore
further remarks are held over for a week.
“High Jinks,” which practically amounts
to dry drinks in its bearings on the
soul, is having one more revival for
a week at Melb. Majesty’s. The pay-box.
being the supreme judge of good and evil
in managerial enterprise, has decreed that
“Jinks” shall crop up from time to time, like
green pasturage after rain, for an ever-
hungry public to feed upon. It w T as rushed
as usual last Saturday. The notable differ-
ences in the cast from last revival were
Bantock as the long-lost husband of Connie
Ediss. Greene as the occasional visitor
alleged to be a Frenchman, and Maude Fane
as the mademoiselle whose frailty is taken
for granted in accordance with musical-
comedy tradition. Dorothy Brunton, Field
Fisher, Workman, Connie Ediss, Marie Eaton
and others were in their former positions, and
the chorus lent enchantment to the scene as
of old- Next Saturday will begin the last
chapter of the season, entitled “The Three
Twins.”
* * *
“Very Good Eddie,” the guileless bride-
groom on whom Temptation was thrown
away, will remain good for one more week
at Melb. King’s. After which “The White
Chrysanthemum” will take up the running.
Ada Reeve, in her fifth week at Melb.
Tivoli, is still being compelled to warble
“Too-rol-ri-looral” and “Tennessee” before
the: will let her go. Also she is pleading the
causv of Billjim in London, by way of an
extra turn, and the character of Sister
Sue suits her nicely. The bill has lost
Talleur Andrews and gained Raymond "Wil-
bert, whose juggling with hoops is a new
revelation in that familiar line of art. A
new sketch, called “A Matter of Business.”
is barely passable in comparison with the
screamingly satirical and sadly serious
sketches that went before.
At Melb. Princess’s the long day of the
“Bunyip” panto, closes with two perform-
ances on Saturday. Then the Manchurians
will pack up their astounding feats of equi-
librium, and the demon and the substantial
fairy will go elsewhere to resume their argu-
ments.
The principal picture at Hoyt’s Melbourne
theatres this week deals with the eternal
themes of love and oof —especially oof.
Mabel Taliaferro, a Fedora by nature, is
incited by her vengeful dad to woo and win
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Frank Markley, the banjo banger.
the Murkan millionaire who euchred the old
man in the game of low finance. Having
somehow transferred hubby’s millions to her
lovely self, and being about to cast him forth
with contumely, Mabel discovers that dad
was a liar and her husband was an innocent
millionaire, in a purely financial way of
speaking. Whereupon she seems disposed
to give him all her heart and a bit of his
own money to go on with. The play is titled
“The Barricade.” The second-best ‘ film
introduces Tom Terris in “My Country
First”- —meaning Ould Oireland.
At Melbourne Majestic the luridest bad-
man that ever stocked his private cemetery
LONDON PRIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Cuthbort Tunks a Coster was, and golden was
his heart.
’lsself an’ pardner kep’ a store, likewise a donkey-
cart ;
Wif’ coal an’ coke an’ corlyflowers,
An’ uvver fruits wot man dewours,
Y r oung Cuf improved the shining hours.
And Cherry was his tart —
His honest tart.
A sort o’ tenderlike regard for Oufbert Tunks she
bore.
Fair Cherry at a fact’ry worked; a toffy frock she
wore
On Sundays when she useter go
A-teasin’ ’im in Hunter’s Row,
Till 'e went orf to fight the foe—
Yus, ’listed for the wor—
The bloomin’ wor.
It took the damsel by surprise, but still ’er ’eart
weren't broke;
She tried to carry on the tride in corlyflowers ’an
coke,
To ’elp the firm to earn a crust.
(The army, much to ’is disgust,
Turned pardner Billy down at fust.)
So Cherry druv the moke—•
The Coster’s moke.
Act 3 found Cufbert on the job, in warfare known
as trench,
Much better as a fighter than ’e was at torkin’
French;
Then, like an ’ero in a play,
He meets ole pardner Bill one day.
The store’s no more, an’ Bill can’t say
Wot ’appened to the wench —•
The plucky wench.
Young Cuthbert Tunks, in anger slow, in action cute
and brisk,
Denied his much belated “leave,” thought best to
take a risk.
He wanted leave. He couldn’t wait.
A luckless pal had met his fate;
Cuf bent acrost ’is shattered mate
An’ changed his metal disc —
The tell-tale disc.
But ere he reached old Hingland’s shore he met wif
some mis’ap;
His brain was shaken by a bomb, or else a piece of
shrap.
When to a manor house he came,
A patient somewhat dazed and lame,
He ’arf-forgot- he’d changed his name
Wif that pore uwer chap—
The buried chap.
His memory was bad, an’ might kep’ on gettin’ wuss,
But who should come upon the scene, disguised as
under-nuss,
But Cherry 1 When she shouted “Cuff!”
He knew her name quite well enough,
An’ yet ’e guv her a rebuff.
She didn’t make a fuss—
She let him cuss.
A message, sent as though ’e’d been the uvver gallant
youf,
Broke Cufbert up—it ’urt ’im like a bloomin’ ser-
pent's toof.
For what occurred some days ago
Ilis mate had won a D.S.O.
Cuf couldn’t play the game so low
As not to tell the troof—
The plain Gawd’s troof.
The regimental depot laughed when Tunks turned up
to show
As ’e 'ad copped the disc of ’im wot won the D. 5.0.;
And Cherry’s grief \vas turned to glee.
The sergeant-major sez, sez he:
“This man is Private Tunks, V.C.,
Marked dead a while ago—
Mistake, you know.”
Young Cuthbert Tunks a Coster wos, a bloke wot ’ad
a ’eart
Susceptible to dooty’s call as well as Cupid’s dart;
A Coster brave and debonair,
Who took his tharnee and did his share.
He’d not have played the game so fair
Had he not loved his tart—
His Cherry tart.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


ft**
0 O ORRA SOK
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company L,td., Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St., SydneyJ*
ipl
ill
-£•* hi
DANIEL CRMORDS
Red Star WHISKY"
i*t, fuz/ace rdte' m
Better Underwear.
At last comes a make of Australian Underwear
that a house exclusively devoted to high-class
goods can sell with absolute confidence. It
is a good make—worthy of a trial by Aus-
tralians anxious to support home industry.
It is also more economical in price than
imported lines.
PURE NATURAL WOOL UNDER-
SHIRTS— Yz -sleeves.
34 36 38 40 42 44
13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
UNDERPANTS TO MATCH.
14/- 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg
measurements.
Peapes & Go. Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George St., Sydney
it
with corpses is being impersonated on the
screen by William Hart. In the character
c f the gunfighter, or killer, he eventually
Shoots his hated rival murderer and dies
penitent, on account of a little Arizona mil-
liner whose supposed beauty was horribly
libelled by the photographer. The milliner
brings a tear into the killer’s hard, blood-
thirsty eye by showing linn a photo of his
poor dear mother. The last spasm of Billie
Burke in “Gloria’s Romance” will begin at
the Majestic on Saturday.
\ revival,' after about a decade, of ''The
Marriage of Kitty,” at the Criterion (byd-
nev), on Saturday, proves that our theatri-
cal taste has changed. The comedy seems
thin and tired; the frequency of the solilo-
quies, the paucity of dramatic situations,
and the bluster and dragging burlesque with
which the tiny plot is eked out serves to
show that, even with the help of long inter-
vals, needless, because there are no bars
open, such a production needs an excuse.
That excuse is provided by the first appear-
ance upon the Sydney stage of a distin-
mushed comedy actress, Marie Tempest.
Even so, the choice of such a play, whether
it be the management’s or Marie Tempest s,
is curious.
* * * *
It is a compliment to Australia that so
eminent an English actress should wish to add
to her already almost world-wide triumphs
the applause of this continent; but the com-
pliment is a little frayed at the edges. Hoi-
Mane Tempest, secure in the applause .of
her London worshippers, has taken the i*isk
of unduly delaying her appeal to a new and
therefore critical audience. Candidly speak-
ing, Australia has not been permitted to see
this great actress at the supreme height of
her undoubted powers, nor, so far, has Syd-
ney seen her in a part suited to her
maturity. But, with an equal candor it
may be confidently said that the art of this
comedian is impervious to circumstance, and
that in her Sydney is privileged to see at its
best the difficult art of pure comedy. The
public is apt to put down to an actress what-
ever other assets she possesses, such as youth
or personal charm, as part of her artistry;
but though Marie Tempest has an extremely
individual and picturesque charm of her
own, her art is beyond such mere personal
aids. What the audience at the Criterion
sees is a pert, elfish, brisk, saucy, mischiev-
ous, little Cockney lady, with an infectious
laugh and a delightful personality, and with
a range of gesture, pose and vocal tones that
remain as a revelation. Doubtless as the result
of her long reign in London Miss Tempest
seems to have over-emphasised the nuances
of her voice. There was more subtlety, in
her .conception of the part when this writer
saw the piece first in London. But the
excuse for the play is a perfectly good
excuse: to see Marie Tempest is, for our
audiences and for our actresses, a liberal
education.
* * * *
The excellence of the cast is undoubted.
Graham Browne, as the foolish baronet, is
a perfect English ass, given, perhaps over-
much to burlesque, but a finished and cap-
able actor, and brilliantly shouldering with
the star his share of the finest work in the
comedy. Sydney Stirling provides one of his
most conscientious impersonations, though
he is much too eager to stress his points.
Leslie Victor, who appears under another
name in the programme, but is fortunately
too well known and too individualistic in his
work to hide his identity, presents a part
that is without flaw; and Millie Engler,
as a maid, makes the most of her
sense of comedy. It was almost unkind
to place a young Australian actress like
Gwen Burroughs in contrast with the
perfection of Marie Tempest’s work. The
former, even with the advantage of a fine
presence, betrays the crudity of the novice.
The staging of the interior of the villa at
Lake Geneva is a charming arrangement of
artistic furniture in a beautiful color scheme.
Nellie Stewart, now on the boards at Syd-
ney Tivoli in “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
(one act per week), has astonished her
fellow-Australians and captured the press.
The fine artist has accomplished a successful
return to the footlights, and the supporting-
company is worthy of her. On Saturday
night Act 11. goes on. Talleur Andrews is
singing on the mixed side of the bill, which
also includes brisk Gwen Lewis and her
piano.
“The House that Jack Built,” at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), will be demolished by
the management in three weeks’ time. Any
small boy or girl who has not yet been taken
to the show had better begin sapping and
mining operations against the gold reserve at
home.
Gilly with the motor-horn voice and the
cherubic smile is still delighting large audi-
ences by turning to the right at the Palace.
There are rumors that a playwright named
W. Shakspeare is patiently waiting his turn
to appear at the Grand Opera House; but,
judging by popular evidence, William is a
much less important dramatist than Walter
Howard, and must wait off-stage until the
audience begins to tire of “The Story of the
Rosary.”
Sydney movies this week: —
Crystal Palace: “The Family Honor,” in which
the usual wicked actress absconds with the usual
innocent son, w'ho proceeds to paint the landscape
crimson and otherwise amuse the old folks at home.
Lyceum: “Blood Will Tell,” the same ingredients
as above, dished up with a little more spice. IV m.
Desmond is the beautiful hero.
Hoyt's : Lionel Barrymore as a dashing spendthrift
in “His Father’s Son,” a Metro flve-aeter on What
a Young Man Should Know.
Louis Nikola smiles
at his own trickery.
MELBOURNE
TIVOLI.
Ashton Jorry as the
private secretary.
Adelaide shows have brightened up with
the coming of ‘‘The Cinema Star” to the
Royal, with the old strong cast. The Tivoli
has changed one Andersoniau melo. for
another, “The Man She Loves” being
the thriller of the moment. Of the
Dandies at Queen’s Hall Herbert Walton
seems to be the strong man. The
Majestic has a new team, including Ermakov,
who shoots skilfully. Courtney is a patter
man on the humorous side, and James Dunn
makes strange farmyard noises. The pic-
tures go by players, mostly ; Billy Burke at
West’s, Petrova at Wondergraph, a baroness
at the Pav. The Royal advertised in ambigu-
ous fashion that June Caprice could be seen
undressing for a swim; but this critic’s
baldheaded grandfather, on being sent, to
look into the matter, reported it as a bitter
disappointment.
Harry Hewlett, killed in France, was an
old Sydney Grammar boy who went through
the Gallipoli turmoil with the A.I.F. from
Landing to Evacuation. He was given a
commission with the Suffolk regiment, and
had been a fortnight in Flanders when the
Last Post sounded.
The honorary Jay Pay still does all he
knows to improve the morals of Melbourne
and push along the movement for the uplift-
ing of the criminally-inclined. The North-
cote bench, with four J’s.P. sitting, did its
bit the other day. A girl of 16 was lined up
for snaring an umbrella and selling it to a
dealer for one shilling. The honoraries at-
tended to her lapse from grace in short order.
They sent her along for three months’ gaol!
Quite like old times.
“Cr&me-de-Menthe”: I’d like to meet the
Australian sergeant who said “Australian
horseflesh could not stand the English
winter, and had to be substituted by Cana-
dian horses.” My regiment left Aus-
tralia two years ago fully-equipped with
Australian horses, which, after standing
the test in Egypt and suffering only a 5
per cent, loss from sickness (mostly due to
the bad feed), came on to France 12 months
ago. We have struck some of the worst
climatic conditions possible for a horse to
experience, including the coldest winter for
50 years, and a temperature of 7deg. centi-
grade of frost. Besides the ordinary hard
work, we have “trekked” on three occasions
a distance of 108 miles in six days, and had
bad weather every time. For the last four
months we have lived in mud from 6in. to
14in. deep. Yet the number of horses evacu-
ated from “climatic conditions” has been
only 8 per cent, for the 12 months! I have
discussed the Australian horse with British
cavalry officers on many occasions, and the} 7
all assure me that they do their best to
obtain any Australian horses, whether
“riders’ draughts” or “mediums” in prefer-
ence to their own English-bred remounts. If
we leave a horse sick we never get it back.
Did anyone ever hear of a horse-thief taking
anything but the best?
AT POVERTY POINT.
Schubert, the Noo Yark manager, favors
the ultra-effeminate type of young man in
his musical-comedy chorus and office-staff,
and the profesh speaks of them as the most
ladylike body of “guys” in the theatrical
world. When the news of America’s war
movement came to hand a Yankee actor in
Melbourne said he was tickled to death by
the thought of Schubert’s brigade going into
action with bows on their rifles.
“Stargazer”: The several tradesmen who
constructed “Canary Cottage” in the belief
that they were creating a musical farce evi-
dently put their heads together and agreed
upon one thing at least, which was that as
the war could be looked to to produce an
extraordinary shortage of marriageable men,
tin; competition for those remaining would in-
evitably be keen and crudely barbaric, so the
action in “Canary Cottage” must reflect this
condition of things with something approach-
ing brutal directness. No man in Canary
cottage makes any particular love to any
individual woman, till the last few moments
necessitate a clearing up of. the mess; but
throughout the women lavish direct, un-
veiled and often red-hot realistic passion on
the men. The hero is beset by three women,
none of whom cares to employ restrained or
indirect methods, while one hurls her ample
self at him, openly, unabashed and
even clamorous. Her reiterated appeals and
assaults, with the very thinnest pretence of
humor, are to me fearful and wonderful con-
sidered as amusement offered to a civilised
audience presumedly sane and allegedly
sober.
May Martin Wirth, of the Australian
circus family, has been astonishing Chicago
at the great Coliseum, where they clear four
stages and two rings when it is time
for the dashing little horsewoman to skip in
for her act. The average daily attend-
ance at the giant showplace is between 10,000
and 12.000," and the Australian girl is star
of the long bill.
“Nil”: —-
When Hubert Henry Davies makes out in his play,
“Outcast,” that Miriam became a prostitute because
she was “seduced” and “left with a baby” (B.
10/5/T7), I beg to ask “Whaffor?” It is a useful
literary superstition (and dramatic ditto) that when
a young woman “goes wrong” she is thereupon cast
out by her stony-hearted parents to die with her
chee-ild in the gutter. As a matter of fact, this
seldom occurs outside melodrama. I have had
amongst my patients scores of unmarried girls who
have “fallen.” And so far from becoming harlots
as a “necessary consequence,” they have faced the
music and been cared for by their parents and the
State, become mothers, reared their children care-
fully, and often married and been good housewives.
One does not want to encourage or condone extra
marital sexual relations, but the stage fiction that
such condemn a girl to prostitution or starvation is
a vicious lie. About 90 p.c. of prostitutes are such
from choice and inclination—in-born sexual perver-
sity. Of course, it goes without saying that parents
should teach their daughters (and sons) sexual con-
tinence.
The allusions in the Gilbert-and-Sullivan
operas frequently trip up young critics
who write in haste. New York Sun lately,
talking of W. L>. Howells, remarked that
“Patience” “irreverently coupled his name
with that of Henry James, while parodying
a type of young man of the period—the type
of the young man they were supposed
to use as characters in their stories.” Of
course Gilbert’s line, “A Howell and James
young man,” referred to a popular London
drapery house, and meant simply a young
blood of the shopman tyne. Neither Henry
James nor W. D. Howells was well enough
known in London in ’Bl to be worth poking
fun at from the stage.
“SMas”: In the course of one of the musi-
cal comedies trundled upon the stage in Mel-
bourne by the “So Long Letty” collection
a large batch of young ladies came squealing
and capering on the stage, dressed in a
choice selection of nighties, scattered from
their beds by a false alarm of tire rung in
unblushingly for the purpose of introducing
a chorus in full bedgear. A great “Oh-h-h!”
of alarm and startled modesty went up from
the audience on each evening and obviously
everybody thought the display shocking in
the extreme. The peculiar feature of all this
lies in the fact that for the first time during
the evening the damsels in the nightdresses
were fully and adequately clad. We are
approaching that extreme when clothes of
any sort on a comic opera or revue chorus
will be considered distinctly improper. “So
suggestive, my dear!”
“E.T.”: A librettist in England has made
a comic-opera book out of Julius Knight’s
and the late Lewis Waller’s old stand-by
“Monsieur Beaucaire.” It is shortly to be
staged in London with music by Messager,
who composed “Veronique,” “The Little
Michus” and a dozen other tuneful scores.
“R.”; Marie Tempest is reported by Mel-
bourne Herald to have read plays jpy the
cartload in England and is unable to get one
to suit hex'. If “The Marriage of Kitty” is
regarded by her as suitable she should be
able to get plays by the ton. The plot is
but an Anglicised and attenuated extension
of the dilemma of Ko Ko, Yum Yum and
Nanki Poo, and the construction is as loose
as it could be made. The juvenile and the
lawyer tell each other all the things they
knew before, on the lines of those old dramas
whose stage furniture was limited to two
chairs upon which one or two characters sat
to tell the stories of their lives and then got
off so that two others could tell the stories
of their lives. Melbourne papers told me
that “Miss Tempest is a finished with-
out a flaw. Mr. Graham Browne is an artist
in every sense of the word. They present
the perfection of art” ; and in so doing, Melb.
papers, from any point of view, talked piffle.
I never before saw people with such a news-
paper reputation so disappointing. Marie
Tempest at her best reminded me of Emma
Temple and at her worst a small edition of
Connie Ediss.
In the new revue at the Palace (London)
there is no Scene One at all. It begins
with Scene Two, “so as not to embarrass
any Smart people who have inadvertently
arrived in time for the opening.”
“Masetto”: Melbourne’s oldest continu-
ous show place, the Temperance Hall, cele-
brated its 75th anniversary recently, Johnny
Gardiner, an old-time minstrel, being the
chief notability on the bill. The old con-
cei’t room has heard some good stuff in its
time. Fred Ireland on the piano, Nick
Feuillade with his violin, Edward Amery the
basso, “old Jack” Matlock, Harry Allnutt
and others earned much applause at “The
Temps,” and some proud vaudevillains who
wouldn’t own to it now got their first laughs
there.
“Cockaigne”: “Flayer’s” account of the
late Harold Ashton’s stirring appeal to the
sub. on behalf of the “thin” show (B.
10/5/T7) l’eminds me of Oxenford, drama-
tist and accomplished man of letters who was
appointed to do the theatres for London
Times, under editor Delane. The period was
not ripe for fi-ee and enlightened criticism,
and when managers came complaining to
Delane, he said wearily to Oxenford, “I
know what you write is quite true, but I
cannot be bothered with these fellows.” He
was never bothered any more. Oxenford
l-eached down the syrup.
“C. Ockney”: “Damaged Goods” has at
last been allowed to be staged in London. It
is the bill at the newest West End theatre,
the St. Martin’s, of which B. A. Meyer,
Oscar Asche’s business-manager in Aus-
tralia, is the lessee. Brieux’s play is creat-
ing more excitement in the neighborhood of
the box-office than the first production at the
new house which was a chaste revue called
“lloup La,” with the liighly-expensive Gei’tie
Millar in the star part.
“8.J.” : “Blanky” in the mouth of Pshaw’s
Eliza Doolittle caused a sensation, but its
presence in a new Bull play, “Home On
Leave,” scarcely excites notice. Seemingly
“To b — or not to b—” is no longer a
burning question, as it has been resolved in
the affirmative.
“First Old Man”: “Outcast,” now
being played at Sydney Criterion re-
introduces after the lapse of a good
few years the name of Hubert Ileni-y
Davies to Australian playbills. We have
seen nothing from the pen of the neat and
elegant English dramatist since “Cousin
Kate” was shown here in 1904, or there-
abouts. Though perfervid amateur admii-ers
oft wi'estle with the polite comedy scenes of
his “Mrs. Gori’inge’s Necklace” and “The
Mollusc,” “Outcast” is Davies’ latest, but
the piece, like all the London pre-war plays,
may safely be classed as out of date.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE PROBLEM SOLVED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are said to be several small theatrical com-
panies doing baekblocks districts in Victoria and
N. S. Wales who gladly accept payment in the
shape of eggs. The rates are: Front seats, one
dozen; back seats, half a dozen. The eggs are
packed in boxes and sent to the nearest profitable
market.
We were a melancholy band,
Towed round the smalls behind a prad.
In halls and barns about the land
We gave the yobs “The Fatal Hand.’’
We slept in beds when biz was glad,
And ate the horse-feed when ’twas bad.
One time we showed a little pride,
And stood to “Best Seats Half-a-crown.’’
Those times admittance was denied
To any fellow who applied
With less than sixpence, money down;
These times we curtsey to a “brown.”
Of late our gifted management
Has solved one trying problem more.
Once was when eggs of doubtful scent
On us unhappy pros, were spent.
Grown wise with trials long and sore,
These nights we take them at the door!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


LADIES! EVERY PEARL HAS ITS CHARM.
A Beautiful Woman is a Paradise to the Eyes.
THE PEARLS OF PRICELESS VALUE are to be found in
iM OfJtcfsMe aquae:/ 1
wm
ohn
S W
inter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS—for THE GODDESS OF BEAUTY.
They have won SIX GOLD MEDALS and are
USED BY ROYALTY.
Dental Cream, a delightful antiseptic, for pearl-white teeth, with a
delicate piquancy of tone and flavor, Lakshmi Cream and Lotion,
New "Face Cream (2 colors). Powder Cl tints), Soap, Carmine, Per-
spiration Powder. Hair Foods (Oily and Non-Qily), etc.
All obtainable at the Civil Service, Horderns’, Washington H. Soul’s,
Farmer & Co.’s, Lassetter’s, David Jones’, McCathie & Co.’s, W. T.
Waters’, McDowell & Hughes’, etc.
Send 2d. stamp for sample of Soap, or Dental Cream, or Powder
(name the tint), to John Strange Winter (London, Paris,
Home), 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney,
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A soldier-lecturer ;it Casino (N.S.W.)
gave a sample of how the rank and file of
the German army are mere automatons. A
llun officer and two privates were captured
and brought to the base. They were given
cups of tea. but the privates made no attempt
to drink, bn inquiry it was discovered that
no German soldier may quaff in the presence
of his officer. Billjim urged the pair, and
they were about to take a mouthful when
the swashbuckler seized the two cups and
hurled them and their contents in the faces
of the men. Both of them immediately stood
to attention with the utmost precision and
saluted. The assaulting party was promptly
ordered into irons, but before this was done
two glasses of beer were produced and
handed to the privates to drink in front of
the bully, while he stood with a couple of
bayonets thrust in uncomfortable proximity
of his ribs. Then he was put in hardware
without any unnecessary tender touches.
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
MISTRESS: “Do you intend to continue permitting my husband to hiss you?”
MAID: “Not without a reasonable increase, Ma'am!”
In the February Cokxhill Ella G. Sykes,
an Englishwoman with the Y.M.C.A. in
France, awards Billjim. the Chesterfield
Cross for deportment. She puts it nicely
thus: —
Australians and ilaorilaliders invaded our hut and
we women took to them at once. As a rule tnej
were splendid-looking men, with clear-cut features,
frank eyes and beautiful teeth. The hut manners of
the newcomers were beyond reproach, were
always addressed as "madam” or “lady,” and
rewarded with a salute and a beaming smile if we
did any little extra thing for our customers. *-el-
tainly this charm of manner was in strong contrast
to many a Tommy or Jock, who gave their ordeia
curtly and imperatively, with never a "please or
“thank you.” We never had a rude word or look
while in the hut, nor did a single mail ever swear in
our hearing.
There was some more, but that will do for
one helping.
“J.R.”: "O.K.’s” idea of limited mon-
archies for Central Europe without titled
aristocrapies (B. 10/5/T7) wouldn’t work
after the war. None of the States, big or
little, are fit to take care of themselves and
very few kings will be plying for hire. When
the old-time baron had the “right of pit and
gallows” and could lawfully imprison or
Jiang anyone who came on his land he was
a standing nuisance. Now he is merely a
sitting one in the House of Lords.
“E.F.” : More importance than is evident
on tin* surface of the horror attaches to the
German corpse-factory question. The fact
is important that the first stories of this
essentially Ilunic device for turning the
‘‘cannon fodder’’ into cattle food and machine
oil were flatly contradicted in tin* llun Par-
liament. Fritz of authority professing scorn
arid indignation, declared that so absurd a
yarn should never have been passed as
“highly probable” by Lord Robert Cecil, who
subsequently remarked that the official Ger-
man contradiction didn’t amount to a row
of pins. The yarn was thus resolved into a
test of Fritz’s truthfulness. Now it is stated
that a German military order, picked up on
the West Front, confirms the ghoulish story
beyond all possible doubt whatever. The
order requires full particulars of identity,
and date and cause of death, to be supplied
with each bundle of dead meat that is forth-
coming for “corpse-utilisation” purposes.
German casualty-lists, as regards all non-
commissioned stiffs, are presumably checked
at the factory, and one supposes that a
widow who keeps a pig is allowed a piece of
factory output to help fatten the animal
with. She never can tell hut what her late
husband is in this way making liis last final
contribution to the support of the. family.
* * * ♦
From somewhere near the Canal
Here we are on the brink of Hades. Away from
civilisation, away from the bright lights, the good
times and the great feeds. From the beforementioued
joys we have descended —no, been violently thrown
down to a place where the flies eat you during the
day and the fleas keep you awake at night, and
where the queue of soldiers waiting at the door of
our solitary beer canteen sometimes measures some-
thing like a quarter of a mile, along a white powdery
road which winds like a gigantic snake across a
wilderness of arid brown, scorching sand, bounded
on all sides by a sky of dazzling blue, and showing
no signs of life excepting those long strings of
camels, which writhe across its breast like huge
centipedes.
It’s sand, all sand. here. Sand that, reflecting the
blinding rays of an intense sun, sears and blisters
HIS EMANCIPATION.
HE: “So you reject me! Hang it, I’ll go
straight away and enlist."
SHE: “How lovely! You always said I
would make a man of you."
the face, and boils the eyes, and cracks the lips and
parches the throat. Sand which, when the simoon
comes, is whirled into the air in tons, and forms a
pall so dense that you can hardly see your hand in
front of you.
The magnitude of one's thirst is nothing short of
marvellous. From the fabulous sums offered for a
modest “pint” a single barrel of beer would, 1 think,
just about set up - quite comfortably an enterprising
publican for the rest of his days.
Our daily programme: Reveille, 5.30 a.m.; fall in
and water and feed up. Three horses are given to
each man to water and feed. Breakfast, 6.30 a.m.
“Water and feed” goes again at a quarter to 12.
Dinner comes on at 12.30, and consists of tea, bread
and jam, and whatever you may have had the money
to purchase at the canteen. Breakfast consists of
porridge, tea, ham or bacon. A little sugar—a very
little sugar—is mixed with the porridge, or burgoo.
After dinner, parade at 2.30 p.m., groom our
horses and clean up. Water and feed again at
5 p.m., then tea at 5.30. Tea is tea and stew.
After tea, if you haven’t to go on piquet, you can
do what you like—go to bed or spend your money
at the canteen. Every week we are given an issue
of tobacco and cigarettes.
With all the sand and flies the life is healthy. Full
dress here means a short pair of pants, a thin cotton
singlet without any arms, a hat and a pair of shoes.
We’re as brown as the niggers, but not a quarter as
dirty.
* * * *
“Petifi”: A word with the N. S. Wales
Cabinet while it is swinging the,rope. A 19-
year-old boy in Auckland (M.L.) was awhile
ago sentenced to a long stretch in
gaol for attempted murder. It tran-
spired that years back he fell on his head,
and it was theorised that his homicidal ten-
dencies were due to a resultant pressure on
the brain. An operation was conducted, and
proved that the pressure was there all right,
and now the doctors seem confident that it
having been removed the patient will be a
normal man in future. It makes you wonder
how many unlucky wretches in the past have
been dragged to the hangman when what
they really required was a visit from the
surgeon.
“Country Ped”: I’d admire to know where
“Peg-Leg” (B. 3/5/T7) got his information
that there is a cinematograph in nearly all
Victorian country schools. Not four per
cent, have them—town or country. The
position is this: In a few country districts
the committees of three or four schools
clubbed together and bought a “home” outfit
for the joint use of their schools, and since
war broke out many male teachers have pur-
chased a similar machine, and now tour their
districts earning money for the State
Schools' Patriotic Fund, which amounts to
over £170,000.
“M.O'C.”: It is
nearly time that one
mistake was corrected
about the Gallipoli
campaign, and that is
this. The Australians
were never on Gaha
Tepe. Reference is
continually being made
in the papers as to
what our troops did on
“Gaba Tepe,” in spite
of the fact that no war
map ever printed
shows that our line
extended as far south
as that headland. I
know that “Trooper
Bluegum” used to mis-
leadingly head his
letters “Gaba Tepe,”
but I will swear that
not one line did he
ever write there. (I
h a p p e n e d to know
where his dugout out
was —a good mile from
where he fancied he
was when writing.)
On one occasion a
small detachment of a
Q’land Batt. made an
attempt to get a foot-
ing on this stronghold
by approaching it in
boats under cover of
dar kn ess, but the
attempt failed utterly.
I can safely say that,
after that, there were
only two men, myself
and my patrol mate,
who ever got any-
where near the old
fort, and I can assure
you that we did not
advertise our presence
there, either. Our
nearest lines, at any
time, were a good 1500 yards from Gaba
Tope.
“Kerani”: On election night a Melbourne
horse that saw the country going to the
Phews arrived in great haste on Prince’s
Bridge with the fragments of a jinker adher-
ing to it, and fractured its mind against the
iron railings. The poor brute lay on the
footpath for over an hour surrounded by the
usual human crows before half a ton of
policemen appeared. One of the half-ton
drew a huge revolver and called to the crowd
to stand back. They, or it, did so at once,
“Ken elm tells me you never intend to marry."
“Gracious, what on earth put such a silly
idea into his head?”
“He said you refused his proposal last night."
and . the ,, executioner dropped on one
, ne ? 111 r eg' u lation attitude and drew a
!’ eadou tde swooning horse. The crowd held
bieath, and the policeman pulled the
Nothing happened but a click
1 .f'A/'evolving the cylinder, the patrol
PuHed the triggpr some more. Clicks only,
~i en ’* oaa ,i lop . got , mad , a nd, pointing
■ a ar f ld ? ry at sk /» he pulled the trigger
seveia * Blanks again. The baffled
n } an a "’ a - v 11S §un and was inakmg a
strategic retirement when a yell went up:
“Look at yer horse!” The scandalous animal
waS W f ViDg a d T sive hind ; le S in the . air!
Th = f t , ■ .
* Ol bltmg a piece out ° hls
THE MEETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I said three years ago
My heart would stir and glow
If I lay dead
And o’er my head
A hair of yours should blow.
This morning, passing you,
1 said, “How do?”
Your praises once I strung
Like shining pearls. You wrung
From every sense
Such eloquence
As tipped with gold my tongue.
To-day 1 jerked my head.
“How do?” 1 said.
Hereft of warmth and light
The world was then all night,
If on the grace
Of your pale fact*
You dropped a veil so slight.
This morning met we two.
I said: “How do?”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Next time you need
Riding Boots try
“Wallaby”
Emperors. 1
fa
Black
18|6 pair.
They are soft and light,
Strong and durable. Made
in Queensland from genuine
Wallaby hides, and fitted with
comfortable elastic sides that
will not perish or stretch
after a few weeks wear.
| WE. PA* POSTAGE. |
Send lor a pair on approval.
PIKE BROTHERS,
TOOWOOMBA. BRISBANE.
LIMITED
TOWNSVILLE.
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping- or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowel#
will be gently relieved, and the stawac*
cleansed and sweetened as the undigesfr I
tood is moved on and got rid of. The tony
will grow clean again and the head wil 7 J^e
cooled and cleared. There is no misty /• e .
the beneficial effects of California Syy , n ?
h igs—“Calitig.” Directions are with
adults and children of all agtj*. ,n,/ r
pleasant laxative is good for all, ar , , blfl
possibly harm even the most dw cannot
you must ask for “Calitig”- IVirr .
Syrup of Figs, and look for trfr . California
trade-mark of the California W 1( f
AH chemists sell “Cali# „>F rPrl* .
Syrup of Figs—in bottle* A. California
l/H and 1/9 * ot two sizes,
V
NO CAUSE FOR ALARM.
“Late for dinner again?”
“Yes, love. You see, I got a new typewriter
this afternoon. Up-to-date is no name
for it! And fast! If I’d wanted to, I
believe I could have”
“George!”
“In fact, I don’t think I ever saw a better
machine.”
“F.”: It’s a better sign when the parsons
begin to look intelligently at the venereal
disease horror. That some of them are doing
so was evidenced at the recent Sydney Pres-
byterian Assembly, where one delegate awoke
to the fact that “the time had come for the
church to depart from the attitude of regard-
ing infection as a punishment for sin, inas-
much as there were so many innocent suf-
ferers” ; another pilot advocated education
in sex hygiene; and one other opined that
every applicant for marriage, male or female,
should be compelled by law to produce a
clean health bill. If these opinions epito-
mised the corporate view of the Assembly
when it finally resolved “to urge the Govern-
ment to at once deal drastically with the
scoui’ge” it looks as if the kirk is shedding
some of the cobwebs.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” adds a postscript
to C. H. Bertie’s printed story of Yaucluse
(B. 10/5/T7), the picturesque old estate
just inside Sydney Heads: —
It was John Jamison’s father, Dr. Tom Jamison,
that Henry Hayes, elopement specialist, fell tail of.
Dr. Tom went to England as a witness for Johnston
on the court-martial, and died soon after. The son,
John Jamison, came out to see to the father’s estate
and effects. The estate included a grant on the
Nepean, where the son built Regentville and enter-
tained lavishly. On one occasion he gave a fete to
which he invited 500 guests, and that was long
before the railways. He owned a big patch of Syd-
ney in George-street, which in 1830 he cut up,
Jamison-street being his southern boundary. He had
a fine town mansion, in which, in 1835, the Bank of
Australasia commenced business. The knighthood in
the first instance was bestowed by the King of
Sweden, when Surgeon John Jamison cured the Queen
of some distemper. The Prince Regent gave the
souvenir an English endorsement for services on hoard
a war vessel during an epidemic. The holder died
in the first ’4o's, and is buried in the Anglican
Church graveyard at Penrith. lie was early em-
ployer of llenry Parkes (1840) —£80 a year and
rations. Parkes put in six months at Regentvilie,
and his .description of the knight’s accommodation
for his laborers is not edifying.
A lot of pedagogic persons in Australia,
ever ready to draw a wide distinction between
learned German professors and common
lluus, are advised to read an article pub-
lished in a Berlin magazine by Prof. Oswald
Flamm. He complains that too many crews
of sunken neutral vessels are being saved
from drowning by squeamish sons of the
German sea. He reckons that if all neutral
ships were submarined without leaving a
trace of their fate, sailors would be too
terror-stricken to venture into the “blockaded
zone.” Flamm is a significant fact in Ger-
man philosophy.
“Denny Mooney” : Being
what is commonly termed
“a wounded hero,” I decided
to apply for one of the
soft, heroic snaps reserved
for same. On presenting
myself at a large bank I
was asked my age, height,
length of service, character
on discharge, jobs since
leaving school, religion
(whatever that had to do
with it) and Dad’s posi-
tion. I thought I had the
Grand Inquisitor silenced
when I told him Dad had
been with the same firm
for 15 years. But he came
back with: “What did he
do before that?” I shook
my head wearily, and he
frowned and made a note
of the shake before inquir-
ing feverishly about the old
man’s nationality. I badly
wanted to tell him that he
was a Pekinese Scotchman,
but restrained myself in
time, and said simply:
“Irish!” The Inquisitor
then looked over the mass
of information he had
wrung from me and
droned: “We will write
you in a couple of days’
time.” He was as good as
his word. In a couple of
days I got a polite note to
say that the bank had no
position to offer me. Per-
haps I wasn’t , wounded
enough. Or I might get
them to reconsider me by
having an ear off and
changing my religion.
Perth has its smelling-salts to its
nose and its pipe in full blast. When the
sewage system was introduced a few years
ago the Government engineers, regardless of
public protests, insisted bn placing the filter
beds on the river at Burswood Island (not
two-and-a-half miles from the Town Ilall)
and the septic tanks at East Perth just
opposite. From there the effluent flows past
the city and on through the 'loveliest reaches
of the Swan to the sea. Things have never
been entirely satisfactory, and they’re not
improving. The other day a representative
deputation waited on the Minister in charge,
James (“Moo-cow”) Mitchell, and told him
that the stench from the septic tanks was
appalling, that East Perth could stand it no
longer, and that something would have to be
hedged and quoted authorities to prove the
done immediately. “Moo-cow” demurred,
flower-like innocuousness of sewage effluent
in general, but he promised to have the pre-
sent system perfected. The deputation im-
patiently waved its pipe and smelling-salts.
What the people want is the purification of
the river and a sewage farm well in the
background, and before long they’ll get it or
suffocate in the attempt.
A mighty strong case of falsifying income-
tax returns was sheeted home to one of
William Hughes’s compatriots recently.
John Williams, managing director of the
Clayton Tinplate Co., and director of other
trading concerns in Wales, was found guilty
of faking the returns of profit of the tin-
plate business, as well as of his private
income, whereby the revenue had been
defrauded of nearly £3OOO. Williams was
a J.P., and a shining light in local religious
and political parties. The Judge at the
Glamorgan Assizes, referring to the prisoner
as a communicant member of the dissenting
Church, called him the meanest of hounds
and fined him £4OOO, with an additional con-
tribution of £lOO towards the cost of prose-
cution. The fine was promptly paid. The
moral is open to interpretation.
“Inky” ; Crucifixion is carried out all right
in the Australian army. I’ve been there.
But it’s nothing to worry about much. You
only get it (in the A.1.F., I mean) for some-
thing pretty hot, or for a stolen good time
that’s worth it. In my case we had hard
luck. Amiens was out of bounds after cer-
tain hours, but some of us used to go in
every evening - on board a passing Tommy
motor. Great big motors, these. VVe used
to catchy them home again, in the dead of
night. You could never see anybody in them,
as the lads were sleeping and happy at the
bottom. One night, however, they were all
singing as we rolled into the village where
we were billeted. The lot were bagged, and
some of us went from “the carpet” to behind
the barb-wire. After that there was no singing.
They tie you up for two hours a dav. and
some men are quite used to it. Of course
it is rotten; but most hardcase Billjims who
actually undergo “crucifixion” don’t give a
sou for it —when it is over.
* * * *
“Third Signaller”: The boys were seated
at their camp mess-tables digging and hack-
ing- at a paving compound supposed to be
fig pudding. One youth who had been doing-
something in the carpentering line was
using a saw to carve his portion. In
marched the prim English orderly-officer.
“Any complaints?” rasped the rawboned
sergeant-major. “Any complaints at this
table?” The pudding-carpenter slowly
straightened his back. “No complaints, only
the saw’s a bit on the blunt side, old
man.” The horrified Englishman passed that
table afterwards.
* * * *
“Eighteen-Pounder”: The Australian
Army Pay Corps, consisting of men not fit
for active service, were given a uniform con-
sisting of A.I.F. khaki tunic and long
khaki trousers—usually named “slacks,” to
distinguish them from other units. Many
of the men, however, discarded the slacks
for various reasons and wore “mounted” or
infantry trousers instead. This came to the
notice of the officer commanding, and out
came an order: “To N.C.O.’s of the Aus-
tralian Army Pay Corps. It has come to
my knowledge that N.C.O.’s are not wearing
their trousers. This must cease at once.”
“Billy T.”: A female relation of mine
went on a sea-trip for her nerves recently.
Her greatest comfort was a sable coat
valued at GO guineas. At one Australian
port where the boat was tethered to a pier
the lady trotted below to read a batch of
letters she had just received. She had pre-
viously left the 00-guiuea sable on her bunk.
Sitting reading she discovered a draught, and
hastily scrambled into the beloved coat. Pre-
sently, while absorbed in news of home, she
felt a tug at her shoulder, and turped
sharply expecting to find someone. There
was nobody in the cabin but herself, and
she resumed her reading. Again came
the tug, very emphatic, and not to be denied,
and even as the frightened woman half-
turned it came again. A man of the boat
had been killed in this port on the previous
trip, and the lady thought in a flash that the
slain man had come back to haunt the
boat. Before she could summon her energies
to scream, the tug at her shoulder was re-
peated, a sharp, petulant, prolonged pull.
Then my dear friend screamed. She
was a white-faced, shrieking, half-demented
ALMOST ABORIGINAL.
“ Don’t think that brazen hussy ought to
have got the prize for most original
costume , anyhow!"
“Hegh, I doan knoa! It’s the nearest
approach to a flyleaf , ya knoa.”
creature when assistance rushed pell-
mell into the cabin. But there was
no foolish delusion, there had been in-
sistent tugging at the lady, and by nobody
in the cabin. A bent wire nail was found
stuck firmly in the back of the sable coat,
from the nail ran a thick cord out of the
porthole, and down to the pier. It was an
attempt of somebody aboard, with an accom-
plice on the pier, to get away with (50-
guineas’ worth of fur, an attempt that had
been frustrated by the return of the owner
to her cabin and her act of putting on the
garment before the narty lingering below saw
a chance to haul in his catch.
THE RETORT CATISH.
PHYLLIS: “How do you like my new hat?"
MYLIS : “I think it’s charming. I had one just like it last season.”
SLEEPY HEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When mother blows the candle out,
Beyond the window-bars,
I watch a gentle lady sew
Her tapestry of stars.
And though I cannot see her draw
Her shining needle through,
What jolly patterns she does make
Of silver, rose and blue 1
So cunningly her long thread moves
With sparkle, loop and twist,
And in the darkest spots she puts
Stitches of strange white mist.
I wonder if I stayed awake
Till midnight, in some place
She’d lift the sky a tiny scrap,
And let me see her face.
But when I waken up again,
’Tis morning, bright and cold,
While on the window sits the sun,
And blinks his eyes of gold.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.


! if I! a ill <l 111 I
Ml Hi! I'M 1 1 Hill III!
\i t i\l ■!:! i ii! i null /.* il !a !!
HHHiiilUriiii!; .>!!/■ I Hi Hi
JiMUiil -Hi 1 i Will * H Hi! I ///V
I ■ i ftj; 11 ■! I! 1! ' i I ii iJiLU > < ' i: / h
nHWIUUIiWiUI./in ! ‘r
!;///; j!: i:i ' !: ii!/p' - // / V
Sis
flllll I
///
!/!!
'an
i
a
n
//
$
r
£
%
r\
i
81®
%
t*'
ja
%
SP
ov v
%
NSINB^
gf
%
a®
32
£3
ft
il
««!
KM
nun
\
M (HQI)
NO MOW
'isa
■I
THE ANXIOUS LISTENER.


ON ROTTEN ROW
Freetrade within the Empire after the war is being influentially supported in England.- News item.


RESIDE and DINE at
The
Australia
Hotel,
SYDNEY
Suites
tie luxe.
Rooms with
Bath & Balcony.
European or
American Plan.
Private
Safe Deposit.
Spacious
Winter Garden.
Cuisine
par excellence.
Grill Rooms
a la carte.
Afternoon Teas
and Suppers.
Recherche
Dinners.
Weddings
Catered for.
(Srirt-osc; TMS UA'lt'iPP,
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains- its exceptional
v.-.'aring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
/
S»At The iffifi
IWHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO RQUIHft ?
zjZCO&&'
LEWIS &WrllTTy MAKERS
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Ptuoß, John Barr and E. O’Ferrau,
of 214 Geprge Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY Qti
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts U Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Dr. J. B. Cleland, the N. S. Wales Royal
Society’s new president, was born in 1878.
and is the eldest son of Dr. W. L. Cleland,
of S. Aus., and a grandson of the late John
Hill Burton, D.C.L., Historiographer-Royal
of Scotland. After getting his M.D. ticket
he.spent some years in England and devoted
his time to cancer research at London Hos-
pital. Later, he was Government Patho-
logist and. Bacteriologist in Westralia and
soon made a name by discovering the try-
panosome of surra in some imported camels.
Previous to that no one suspected that the
part of India from which the smelly animals
came was infested by the deadly stock dis-
ease. In 1908 he was appointed Principal
Assistant Microbiologist at the Sydney
Microbiological Bureau, and when that in-
stitution and the Health Board were amalga-
mated in 1913 he became Principal Micro.,
etc. For some years, in company with divers
scientific gents., he has been on the trail
of the life-history of one Onchocerca gibsoni
—an elusive character blamed for causing
worm-nests in cattle.
Tasmania’s second Victoria Cross winner,
Captain P. H. Cherry, of the 26th Battalion,
died on the field where the honor was won.
He had attained previously the M.C. Every
officer in his company of stormers had met
with a casualty, but he drove the enemy out
of the village he was ordered to take, organ-
ising machine-gun and bomb-parties as re-
quired. He beat back counter-attack after
counter-attack, and, though wounded next
morning, he stuck to his post until he was
killed by a shell. Cherry was an orchardist
and a champion - fruitcase-maker of his
State at 19. Enljsting before he was 20, he
became drill-instructor at Claremont camp.
SANCTUARY.
MRS. KNAGGER: “Good gracious, John, what
do you mean by coming in in the middle
of the night and crawling under the
bed? I thought you were a burglar and
haven't slept a wink since."
JOHN: “Now, ml dear, be reashionable. If
hadn't slept under the bed neither of us
would a' slept at all."
Too young for a commission, he left as
Q.M.S., and rose from regimental-sergeant-
major to second lieutenant on Gallipoli. He
was invalided to Egypt, went to France with
a machine-gun corps, and was wounded and
mentioned in dispatches at Pozieres. After
being invalided to England, he hustled for
permission to rejoin his unit, and was made
captain. He was 22.
Louis Ellis, chiefly notable in Melbourne
as being the pai’ent of Constance Ellis, one
of Victoria’s pioneer woman-doctors, is dead
at Malvern. Nearly a quarter-century ago
Ellis retired from the job of sheriff, which
he had held down for the previous quarter-
century, during which time he had the pro-
fessional distinction of making the neces-
sary arrangements for swinging Ned Kelly
off. He stopped at 84. He used to say that
Nature must have meant him for a shei’iff,
for, when he was only 13 years of age, he
wagged it from school to see John Knatch-
bull. or “Fitz,” hanged in Sydney for the
murder of widow Jameson.
Dr. James E. Carruthers has been chosen
president of the general Conference of the
Methodist Church of Australasia, in succes-
sion to the late Dr. George Brown. The
fresh luminary, who has-been 50 years on
PRECEPT AND PRACTICE.
HUSBAND : “A fool and his money are soon
parted."
WIFE: “Hum! I haven't noticed much of
the fool about you lately."
the trail' of Beelzebub, was born in Sydney
in IS4B, but his youth was spent in Kiama,
a South Coast district which has the credit
of having produced some notables. Amongst
them are Chief Justice Cullen and Joseph
Carruthers, M.L.C., a brother of the reverend
doctor.
W. D. L. Macdonald. Maoriland’s Minis-
ter for Agriculture, lately a visitor to Aus-
tralia for the purpose of acquiring wheat
in the event of the local cocky omitting to
grow, enough, drifted into politics as a mild
sort of Liberal, He hails from the Bay of
Plenty, and some of his constituents reside
in the vicinity of boiling lakes and agitated
volcanoes and geysers which shoot up in the
middle of the night and fall down next
morning. All this fills Macdonald with
a great trust in the expediency of not being
in a hurry. He is a rotund, placid person,
who positively refuses to move out of a
walk, and decorates the Ministry with appro-
priateness. What he can never understand
is why the other chap keeps on making a
row day after day, when life would be so
much more pleasant if he only kept quiet.
George Mclntosh, dead at Chatswood
(N.S.W.), was born in the same district
83 years ago. and for most of the inter-
vening time he had been expounding the
Word according to Anglicanism. Two
curacies in Sydney and a spell as a
parson near Newcastle were his only
lengthy absences from the Cumberland fruit-
growing area. Mclntosh retired from active
soul-saving 10 years ago, when stationed at
Pennant Hills. Two daughters are in China
carrying the glad news to Ah Sin. A son
is wearing a captain’s stars with the A.I.F.
An interesting figure in politics will be
Colonel Jim Rowell —everyone calls him
“Jim” —who has got into the Senate at the
first attempt. Gardening was his .profession,
but so’diering his hobby, and he worked up
to the highest position South Australia could
give to an amateur warrior. He saw blood
under Kitchener in South Africa, but was
considered just too old (though he does not
look it) for anything but transport work in
this war. His son Sydney was the first S.A.
cadet into Duntroon, and his nephew, Col.
Frank Rowell, died on service in the Medi-
teri’anean.
“R.P.”: Justice a’Beckett, of Victoria,
once put J. L. Purves to sleep. The terror
had been pulled up and tried to hit back with,
“Of course, if your Honor, from your exalted
position, chooses to accuse me of misleading
the Court....” “Let us get on, gentlemen,
with the disputed facts of the case,” was the
rejoinder with just the slightest emphasis on
“disputed.” J.L. got on.
Killed at Pozieres another of the heroic
band of the Lone Pine lads —Sergeant
C. G. Nankivell, of the 4th (N.S.W.)
Battalion, whose sistex-, Joiee Nankivell,
secretary to Dr. “Bones” Deeper, master
of Trinity College, Melb. _ University,
has written a number of stirring patriotic
verses which should some day reach book-
form. Nankivell, says one of his officers,
“was endowed with that great quality,
bravei-y, to a degree seldom possessed.” A
Neerim, Gippsland, boy, he enlisted in Syd-
ney, took part in the Landing, was pro-
moted and mentioned for rescuing wounded
under fire, and was decorated with the Mili-
tary Medal. He was mentioned for further
awards in France when the end came.
“Billy Blue”: Apropos of Walter O.
Hawkins, the old-time parson (B. 10/5/’l7).
The roll call of State-aid parsons, or chaplains,
as they were first called, is now reduced to
the last member, the Rev. Septimus Hunger-
ford. Born in 1825, he came to_N. S. Wales
in 1828. He was ordained in 1853 by
Bishop Tyrrell. His first parish was the
whole of New England, with his headquar-
ters at Armidale. From there he went to
St. Thomas’s. Enfield (Sydney), and retired
in 1895. The “roll” was established by
Governor Bourke’s Church Act of 1836, and
thereunder parsons were paid £lOO to £2OO
a year, according to the number of narish-
ioners. The Act was abolished in 1863 by
Charles Cowper, then Premier, who was
the son of one of the oldest parsons paid
under the Act.
Sculptor James White has a commission
from Melbourne Hospital to do a marble
bust of John Grice for the institution, to
which Grice, like his late partner Somner,
has been a very good friend. The
model, in soft clay, or glyptokos, is a con-
vincing likeness of the rather starchy Mel-
bourne citizen; and White is confident that
he will get even more life and character into
the work when he finishes it in the, stone,
two or three months hence.
“Nestor”: Down in the Bismarck Archi-
pelago a while ago I met one of the most
charmingly simple Old World gentlemen it
has been my good fortune to fore-
gather with. On the wall of his house
was a painting of the late Alfred
Stephen. “Sort of grand-uncle,” he said.
My friend is the offspring of one of
the Stephens’s and a French wife. At the
time when boys want to go to sea this youth
went. He was run down to the Islands, and
left on Nauru, to be picked up when the
ship came back. She never came back, and
the lad was marooned there for two years
before another ship showed up. This was a
whaler booked for America, but by that time
the ex-sailor didn’t want a passage. He
married and settled, raised a family. That
was befoi’e he knew that on his little 12-mile
round patch was £250,000,000 worth of the
best phosphate stuff.
_ “Rustler”: -One of the most versatile poli-
ticians in the Victorian Assembly is Achiles
Gray, member for Ivorong. Before entering
Parliament he for a time managed the huge
estate of Gray Brothers, and, later, practised
as a successful veterinary-surgeon. As an
entertainer he is excellent, especially shining
as a humorous reciter. Whilst lying in bed
with a broken limb he invented an apparatus
which is largely used where rain-water has
to be stored in tanks. It provides for the
first water from the roof, which is dirty, to
be run away, and the clean water to be
turned into the holders.
THE CHANCES.
IKEY, JUNIOR: “Fader, is marriage a
failure?"
IKEY, SENIOR: “No, m y poy; bat it's very
near as good, if yer cops a vealthy
voman!"
“Catchline”; A genius for mateship is
possessed by Jim Carey, 32, swagman, whose
watchword seems to be “somewheres
anigh my chum.” He was rejected 13
times, after trying to enlist in every
State in the Commonwealth, and figur-
ing that something must be wrong he
underwent an operation and tried the recruit-
ing-office again. All correct this time. Carey
has humped his drum all over Australia, and
has been away with remounts between times.
“Stripe”: Let’s give the civil side a
LAIRD-SMITH,
re-elected M.H.R.
for Denison ( Tas .).
chance, for not all
the heroes are in
the trenches. There
is, for instance,
Constable F. Bate-
man, of Russell-
street police bar-
racks, Melb., who
has won the gold
Valor badge. Bate-
man saw a woman
making a strategic
retreat from Wil-
liam Gourlay (now
in gaol for five
years). The latter
had just shot the
woman in the head
when Bateman got
on his tracks, and.
facing two more
shots from a revol-
ver, closed with
him. The shootist
dropped his gun and
drew a razor, but
the cop warded off
the steel and col-
lared his man.
Died of wounds in France, A. T. B. Bru-
ford, lance-corporal—one of five brothers in
the A.I.F. who are great-nephews of the late
Field-Marshal Roberts. Their grandfather,
Archdeacon Beamish, also deceased, married
Roberts’s sister, and presided over Anglican
collection-plates in Victoria for many years.
Bruford was born in Victoria 29 years ago,
and was in the Bank of Australasia at
Mirboo North (Vic.) before enlisting.
Sergeant Leslie M. Menser, who lately
died of wounds in France, learned the goose-
step with the old 2nd N. S. Wales Volunteer
Infantry Regiment, and was wounded while
serving with the Australian Bushmen in the
Boer scrap. Afterwards he was a mine
manager for the S.R.C. Exploration Co.,
Transvaal, and when Kaiser Bill started out
on the road he’s surely going, Menser joined
the Heidelberg commando of General Botha’s
South African Mounted Division as ser-
geant-major.
Trainees of Captain Eric Harrison, officer
in charge of the Vic. Flying School at Point
Cook, have done justice to his teaching and
that of Captain 11. Petre, who was for-
merly associated with him. Petre has won
the Military Cross in Mesopotamia, and has
been twice mentioned in dispatches; Lieut.
F. H. McNamara, now in Palestine, has been
recommended for the V.C.; Lieut. Murray
Jones has the Military Cross, and Sergeant
C. V. Heath the Distinguished Conduct
medal.
Passed out recently, George Langhorne
Lethbridge, 90. He was a native of Parra-
matta, educated at the local King’s School
and at Mount Radford College, Exeter. Eng-
land. He returned to N.S.W. in 1845, and
had some experience on his father’s proper-
ties in Singleton and Barraba districts. At
Currangandi, on the Horton River, he lived
for 30 years in a bark hut. In 1854 he set
out, with others, on an exploring expedition,
as far as Peake Range, being the third out
after Leichhardt. For 40 years he lived at
Bridgeman, near Singleton, where he was
a noted breeder of stock, particularly sheep.
He never married.
Lieutenant H. .T. Dell has been mentioned
as. putting up something like a record in
f|uick promotion. He enlisted in Launces-
ton as a private last October and has won
his star already. His great grandfather was
the Sergeant Dell who was sent by Colonel
Patterson with a party to explore the upper
reaches of the Tamar in 1806.
Amongst those who exercised the fran-
chise at the second ballot for the Hawkes-
bury was Mrs. James Sullivan, senior, of
Wilberforce, aged 90 years. She was one of
the oldest Hawkesbury natives, and lived to
see the fifth generation of her family. The
ballot was taken on April 14, and on Mon-
day, April 24, the old lady passed out, leav-
ing 140 descendants.
POOR COLUMBINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blue is for happiness, they say,
Pierrot wore blue when he strode away
To fight for France.
Blue is for tenderness, they say,
The sky was blue on that sunny day,
So bright his lance.
Blue is for truth, they say,
Bless Thou the truth, Bon Dieu, I pray,
Send down Thy glance 1
■ Blue is the Virgin’s cloak, they say,
For blue means tenderness. Oh, may
She pity Franee 1
Blue were his laughing eyes, amd gay,
Shot through the heart, he lies, they say,
In Western France I
N.s.w. '
JOHN EGAN.


FEW men there are who care to
face the wet and cold of Winter’s
day and night, and fewer still who
must without a good warm
“Austral” Overcoat.
But to escape the danger and discomfort of
the changing wintry weather, the men who
need protection need it now this early
Winter’s day.
And here* at Clothing Headquarters* as well as at our Branch Store, are
offered means to serve this very end. A choice of coats* both water-
proof and warm. A range of styles, attractive and complete. And
right throughout, the prices and good qualities are index to the values,
which are admittedly supreme.
“Austral” Style No. 14
(as illustrated).
City men especially favor the dressy overcoat fashion
pictured here, which has an individuality quite distinctive,
although there is no suggestion of freakishness in the cut and
style to limit its popularity. A Single-breasted, Slip-on
Chester, with Raglan Shoulders, Semi-double-breasted lapels,
fly-buttoning fronts, gauntlet cuffs, flap pockets and vent
back, available either with skeleton lining in shoulders only
or full lined. Made by John Barron & Sons,
of Leeds, this is a typical English model, made
from high-grade tweeds in medium and dark
grey shades. All sizes for men *.
651-
“Austral” Gabardine Raincoats
“Austral ” Raincoats are mostly Slip=on Styles, . with Raglan
shoulders as here shown, but may be had with either open step
collar or with Russian Collar, which buttons to neck. Qualities are
as listed below,
Fawn and Dark Grey Gabardine, Check Wool lined, with Step or Russian
Collar 57 6
Speckled Grey Gabardine, Check Wool lined, Step Collar only. 03/-
Fawn and Drab Gabardines, with loose mercerised linings, either Step or Rus-
sian Collar ggy.
Plain Fawn Gabardine, Mercerised Linings, Step or Russian Collar ... 7Q -
Fawn and Dark Grey Gabardine, Check Wool lined, Step Collar only.. 75/.
Dark Brown and Fawn Gabardine, Check Wool lined, Step Collar only 84 -
Fawn Gabardine, Check Wool lined, Step and Russian Collar only 90/-
Other qualities 95/-, 100 -, 105/-, 110/-, 115/-
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
Q 4
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods*
480-490 George Street, 3-17 Royal Arcade, and
304 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY,
I!
&
¥
P
m
Ste
%
m
SlS§ ',
Mf
11
M
:
m.
m
sg#
•O
-V


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monotaei
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne;
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Phiup and Co.. Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, Island traders, merchants,
etc.: — Writ- Added
• ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
March, £ £ £ £ £
1 905.. 44,686 8 p.e. = 24,000 20,586 320,001
1900.. 43,276 8 „ „ 24,000 19,276 339,277
1907.. 55,637 10 „ ~ 30,000 20,000 5,637 344,914
1908.. 69,787 10 ~. „ 30,000 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 „ „ 30,000 24,915 399,616
1910.. 70,167 10 „ „ 30,000 15,000 25,167 424,783
1911.. 79,890 10 ~,,30,000 49,890 474,673
£350,000 of reserves transferred to capital 124,673
1912.. 99,704 5 p.c. = 35,000 64,704 189,377
Cash bonus of 71 p.e., £52,500 .. 136,877
1913.. 109,389 5 p.c. = 40,000 69,389 206,266
Cash bonus of 5 p.c., £40,000 .. 166,266
•'1914.. 115,401 6] p.c.= 62,500 52,901 219,167
1915.. 98,317 6j ~,,62,500 35,817 254,984
1916.. 118,583 71 „ „ 78,750 39,833 294,817
1917.. 161,466 71 ~,,78,750 82,716 377,533
What a money-maker it is! Six years ago
the capital was £300,000. Then, the visible
reserves having exceeded the capital,
£350,000 of ’ the undivided profit was
capitalised, and later on bonuses amounting
to £02,500 were paid. That left, the share-
holders £257,500 to provide in order to make
up the present capital of £1,000,000. The
idea, when the capital was more than
doubled by the issue of bonus shares, was
to reduce the rate of dividend from 10 to a
less conspicuous 5 p.c. The very conser-
vative management hinted that it wouldn’t
consider it was doing anything out of the
way if it laid by as much as it paid out in
dividends. But, alas! this ambition has not
been realised ; for while the directors have
enriched the shareholders by £357,500, the
visible additions to reserves have amounted
to only £345,350. In six years the divi-
dends have thus exceeded the lay-by by over
£12,000. When the directors think over it
they may realise how reckless they were in
pushing the dividend up from 5 to 7| p.c.
Still they can plead that, so far as last year
is concerned, they were well under flhe mark
and let go only 48 p.c. of the profits. And
even then they represented 5 p.c. as divi-
dend and 2£ p.c, as bonus, thus giving a sort
of hint that the 2| p.c. mustn’t be regarded
as a permanent institution.
And, in view of contingencies, they are
right. The world is in a state of flux, and
almost- anything may come out of the
crucible. Nobody knows what is going to
happen in the Pacific Ocean, where, in spite
of all the missionaries, “Beepy” is better
known than John the Baptist. So, too, trade
with the North—our North, running up
through Java and Singapore to the busy tin-
dredging Malay States and on to Japan—is
very uncertain. Our trade that way ought
to be enormous. We should find the best
market for most of our products there. The
hundreds of millions of people up yonder are
not all the very low-wage people they were
a few years ago. They are developing new
tastes —tastes for white man’s tucker in
particular—and they are demanding and
getting much higher wages in consequence.
Thus far Australia has not done a quarter
as much as it might to collar this new trade.
Into a camp in one of the Malay States
there came at Christmas half a dozen or so
hams, all the gifts! - of Chinese having busi-
ness relations with that particular co. All
those hams were English—and Australia is
only a hop, step, and a jump away. How-
ever, even though we are neglecting our
opportunities, the Northern trade has in-
creased since the war; and either directly
or as agent B.P. has benefited very largely.
No doubt, also, though it hasn’t been easy
to get Islands produce away, the disap-
pearance of the German flag from the
Pacific has helped to build up "the magnifi-
cent profit of £161.466 for the year. That
Profit, by the way, is exclusive of £lO,OOO
which is put by to pay the staff a 10 p.c.
bonus, “payment to be made as far as
practicable in Commonwealth War Bonds.”
During the year most of the figures have
grown. The position as at March 31 was:—
Liabilities.
1990. 1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
40 Q jg £ p
Capital ..275.000 390.000 1,000,000 1,050,000 1.050 000
Reserves .. 213,346 470.783 3’7.484 378,567 466/283
Other debts 222,294 195,435 261,095 301,301 446,4 r 3
Assets.
Properties 144 679 155,000 177,000 175,000 175 000
Shipping .. 72,707 168.485 258,7201
Cash & in- V 410,727 456,438
vestments 71,447 84 340 187.0881
Stoek .. 186,881 180.551 250,808 304,553 400,062
Rook debts 197.233 245,011 382,624 514.812 522.9'3
Otherassets 37,693 141,831 322,339 324,776 498^363
‘'Other assets” consist mainly of copra, etc.,
on hand and shipping, consignment and
other advances. Extension of the co.’s field
of operations, coupled with difficulties of
ocean transport, would account for increases
in this line and in merchandise stocks. The
co.’s liabilities have been more or less
correspondingly increased. The co.. owing
to the war, has been unable to arrange for
the. building of any new steamers; but to
assist in the collection of Island produce —-a
business in which the German had got a big
say—the co. has placed contracts for a num-
ber of wooden auxiliary yessels; alid Uncle
Samuel. should have three of them ready
inside six months. Later on, according to
present appearances, there will be a tight
tor the trade in which B.P. is chiefly
engaged. But if the far-seeing, vigorous, yet
extremely economical B.P. can't hold it for
Australia nobody can.
* * * #
Tootii and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Sid-
ney
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar 1911. .107.833 10 p.c.= 50.000 571833 31.^748
Sept., 1911.. 99,732 10 „ „ 50,000 49,732 365,480
Mar., 1912.. 19M,403 10 „ „ 50,000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO. . 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10 p.c.= 55,000 40,303 380,186
Assets written up, £295,195 . . 075,381
Transferred to Capital, £550,000. . 125,381
r — A •,
Ord. Pref.
(10p.c.) ( 6n.c.)
Mar., 1913. .140,931 55,000 16,500 69,431 194,812
„ x (8 p.c.)
Sept., 1913.. 80,613 55,000 22,000 3,613 198,425
„ (10 pc.)
Mar., 1914. .169,062 55,000 27,500 86,562 284,987
Transferred to Capital, £137,500 .. 147,487
Sept., 1914.. 99,901 61,875 27,500 10,526 158,013
Mar., 1915. .172,773 61,875 27,500 83,398 241,411
Sept., 1915.. 82,022 61,875 27,500 234,058
Mar., 1916.. 99,771 55,687 19,250 24,834 258,892
Sept., 1916.. 60,151 55,687 19,250 244,106
~ 6 p.c.
Mar., 1917.. 68,685 55,687 16,500 240,604
Tooths put all the summer into one half-year
and all the winter into another; and that
makes the profit figures take almost as curly
a course down the table as the highway fol-
lows from Taree to Gloucester. The next
comparison, which deals only with the sum-
mer half of each year, -and doesn’t take heed
of special appropriations, gives a clearer
view:—•
Profit on Management, Balance
Brewings, Wages, Excise, of
Mar., etc. etc. Profit.
1913 .. £326,966 £176,035 £150,931
1914 .. 373,807 191,745 182,062
1915 .. 381,861 193,088 188,773
1916 .. 296,227 182,455 113,772
1917 . . 267,071 180,885 80,186
It doesn’t look good; and peace when it
comes is not likely to restore things to their
old level. “The effect of six o’clock closing,”
the directors say, “lias been to considerably
reduce the sales of bulk beer; but the in-
creased sales of bottled beer have to some
extent lessened the deficiency.” Also: “The
co. has suffered considerable loss owing to
the reduction of rents under the provisions
of the Liquor (Amendment) Act 1916.” The
poor old war was used as a stalking-horse to
bag the six o’clock bird, and the present law
will prevail only “during the currency of the
war. and for a period not exceeding six
months thereafter.” But the majority in
favor of six o’clock closing was so over-
whelming that there is practically no hope of
a reversal of the decision under any condi-
tions. In fact, we shall probably feel such a
pinch after the war that there may be a
bigger vote in favor of six o’clock ‘closing
then than there was when war-money was
plentiful. War or peace, the world
seems to be tightening its grip on the throat
of the liquor trade. In the old days of easy
peace there were three local-option votes
the N. S. Wales Act of 1905. In
on™’ wlien the first w as taken, there were
3023 pubs in the State. The first vote
wiped out 293; the second, 28; the third, 23.
It is a remarkable pendulum that doesn’t
swing both ways; and to most movements
there is a reaction. But there doesn’t appear
to be any in. this liquor business. The
closure of one pub seems only to make it
easier to close another. So, in America the
arrival of prohibition in one State seems
only to make it easier' to turn a neighbor
dry, until now there are either 23 or 24
publess members of the Union. What the
end is going to'be in Australia this paper
declines to guess. It is quite certain, how-
ever that the trade can be worked in a
much more intelligent and economical way
than it has been in the past. This co’s
management apparently recognises this • for
there is a directors’ note: “The plant will
be entirely modernised by the various addi-
tions to the buildings and alterations to
plant and machinery which are now nearing
completion.” It is to its costs that the wise
brewery co. will proceed to direct its atten-
tion.
Tooths, at any rate, stand in an apparently
strong position to face the probably hostile
future. The principal balance-sheet items
have moved this way in 10 years:—
Mar., ’O7. Mar., 'l7.
Liabilities .. .. £17,777 £52,728
Assets; —•
Breweries, etc. .. 604,932 1,538,795
Book debts . . 234,682 200,892
Stock . . , . 92,581 272,994
Liquid .. . . 218,425 157,839
The balance-sheet contains a note to the
effect that none of the capital is represented
by goodwill. Bht many a co. has part of its
capital represented by an unrecognised form
of goodwill. Thus “Breweries, etc.,
£i 5 538,795,” includes the value of pub pro-
perty ; and it is quite possible that a good
deal of the book value of some of the pubs
is represented by nothing tangible—that is
to say, is goodwill. The position may there-
fore not be so good as it looks on the surface.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insur-
ance Society (now Ltd.), of Sydney:—
Bonus to Added Total
• Policy- to lte-
Profits. Dividends. holders. Funds, serves.
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
1904.. 23,313 16| p.c. = 8,290 4290 10,733 126,954
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 114.454
1905.. 21,447 14J p.c. = 9,312 4312 7,823 122.277
1906.. 20,403 143 „ „ 9,262 4262 6,879 129,156
1907.. 21,562 14| ~ 9,237 4238 8.087 137,243
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 124,743
1908.. 21,230 14 p.c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
1909.. 18,277 14 „ ~ 10,553 4553 3,171 134,284
1910.. 22,337 145 „ ~10,983 4984 6,370 140,654
£15,000 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 125,654
19l 1. . 24,005 13J p.c. = 12,040 5140 6,825 132,479
1912.. 22,640 14 „ ~12,588 5388 4,664 137,143
1913.. 20,944 14| ,* ~13,497 6297 1,150 138,293
1914.. 20,302 15j ~ „ 14,205 7005 1,37,885
1915.. 18,271 16 „ ~14,424 7224 134,008
1916.. 25,614 17f ~ ~15,944 8744 926 134,934
1917.. 15,134 17* „ ~15,898 8698 125,472
For some years past it. has been doubtful
whether the co. wouldn’t have >to change an
old-established custom, and the last 12
months’ experience doesn’t lessen the doubt.
To make £15,134 and pay away £24,590 in-
volves altogether too deep a cut into the
funds. Actually 'the co. now has smaller
resources in capital and reserves than it had
seven years ago. True, the past year has
been more unfavorable than the average.
Partly on account of the large number of
city fires for which the I.WAV. is blamed,
and partly because of the exceptional hail-
storms. in the N. S. Wales wheat districts,
the.co. had a loss rate of very nearly 50
p.c. But though that is much above the
average, the loss rate is in general far higher
than it was in the early days of the co.,
when with a very small capital the manage-
ment felt justified in taking only very
selected risks. Nowadays the co. is an office
to take risks and not to turn them away, so
that in the past 10 years the premium in-
come has just doubled. It took the co. 33
years to get a premium income of the first
£36,000; the second £36,000 has -been got in
The rule of the co. is to pay, first, a divi-
dend of 8 p.c., and then to distribute 20 p.c.
of the premiums as a bonus, half to the
policyholders and half to the shareholders.
But of late the business has grown so
rapidly that, whereas 10 p.c. of the pre-
miums meant a dividend of 5£ p.c. in
1911, it means now a dividend of 9§ p.c.;
and this 9§ p.c. is paid notwithstanding
that the profits were much smaller last year
than they were in 1911, when the bonus
based on premiums meant a dividend of only
5i p.c. Plainly, then, this basis of distri-
bution is all wrong. It is not the turnover
that should count, but the profit on the turn-
over. Consider these figures -
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £29,415 £6,717 £12,828 22.8 p.c. 43.6 p.c. ■
1900.. 33,888 8,131 13,765 24.0 ~ 40 7 ,
1905.. 36,088 7,149 15,009 19.8 „ 41.6 „
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44 8 ~
191.3.. 5.3,260 17,478 25,056 32.8 „ 47.0 ~
1914.. 58,522 21,992 27,899 37.5 „ 47 7 ,
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 ~ 47.1
1916.. 71,557 2.3,618 32,594 33.0 „ 45.5
1917.. 72,621 36,255 31,466 49.9 „ 43.3 ,’
In the three years 4 895-1900-1905 the under-
writing profit averaged 35.8 p.c. of the pre-
miums. In the past three years it has aver-
aged only 13.6 p.c. Yet the same proportion
of the premiums has been paid away
throughout; and the proportion has been so
high that the co. lias not even been reserving
its interest earnings. There is one thing to
be said in extenuation of the present exces-
sive distributions: owing to the compara-
tively slow growth of the business in former
days, coupled with the comparatively large
amounts then laid by, the funds are more
than sufficient to cover present risks. The
net investments and bank balances are equal
to 320'p.c. of last year’s premium income-
and this is approximately twice as large a
ratio as that of the average British office.
Ihe co. thus offers excellent security for
people with risks to place ; and it is an Aus-
tralian office, every inch of it, with a prior
claim therefore on any Australian business
that is offering.
* * * *
Standard-Waygood-Hercules, Ltd for-
merly the Standard-Waygood, Ltd , an amal-
gamation of four or more Sydney businesses,
whose chief object is to put in and look
after lifts and electrical machinery (good-
will, £15,000 to start with) :
Towards
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910. . £11,078 12) p.c. = £5,750 £5,328 £9,672
Premiums on new shares . . 5,825 3,847
1911.. 17,274 12) p.c. = 10,080 7,194 3,347
Premiums on new shares . . 6,675 10,022
1912.. 19,970 20 p.c. = 19,345 625 10,647
1913.. 21.372 121 ~ „ 11,062 7,3i0 17,957
Unexplained additions to reserves 1,969 19,926
1914.. 35,725 121 p.c. = 19,547 16,17 S 36,104
1915.. 23,215 121 „ „ 19,547 3,668 39,772
written off book debts and securities, 30,486
1916.. 6,152 10 p.c. = 15,638 21,000
191/... 16,268 10 i, „ 16,888 20,380
The directors put it quite frankly—“a con-
servative valuation of stock shows a profit
of £16,268.” Stock and work in progress
represent no less than £97,756; and it
depends upon the valuation of these assets
whether the profit is much or little. Though
the past year’s figures are much better than
those for the year before, the dividend was
still not fully earned; and it does not seen!
likely that there will be an early recovery.
The co. had a very fine run to start with,
and in its eight years has paid 102| p.c. ill
divs., besides accumulating a handy reserve,
But most of those were years of heavy pub-
lic borrowing and general inflation, and the
co. was in the way of benefiting very largely
from the construction boom. The Uext
eight years are much more likely to be d
period of sackcloth and ashes.
One cannot, of course, predict anything
with certainty, for very much depends Upoxi
the price we shall get for our staple products.
At the best, however, this paper cannot
see buoyant conditions ahead; for apart
altogether from the vast sums of borrowed
money which the Commonwealth has spent
on non-productive enterprises—including the
war the new works on which N. S. Wales
lias spent £40,000,000 during the last few
years are not at all likely to at
once carry their own interest burden;
and that means a heavy load of taxa-
tion. This is going to affect the spirit
of the community. And unless this
co. can find now outlets for its abundant
enterprise it is likely to he Bit pretty hard.
The directors realise that, apparently ; for
after referring to the “declining business and
keen competition,” they say they are “alive
to the importance of securing fresh avenues
for the employment of capital as it is re-
leased by the realisation of stock which
cannot be replaced at reasonable figures.”
Financially, the co. is in a very easy posi-
tion. Its liabilities, including £lO,OOO of a
mortgage, total only £18,981. Of the co.’s
total resources, £54,500 is in premises and
plant, leaving £170,482 —or a trifle more
than the capital—represented by stock, work
in progress, cash and investments, the last
consisting of shares in Automatic Tele-
phones, Ltd., and Lift Inspection and Insur-
ance, Ltd.
* # * #
Broken Hill Block 10 :-
Profit. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Mar 0/ £61,945 £55,000 Sept., ’l2 £36,049.£10,000
Sept., 07 60,/86 50,000 Mar., ’l3' 16,861 20,000
Mar., ’OB 12,256 30,000 Sept., ’l3 37,481 20,000
Sept.,’oB 22,080 5,000 Mar., ’l4 17.467 30,000
Mar.,’o9' 39,284 10,000 Loss.
Sept.,’o9 28,844 20,000 Sept., ’l4 4,692* 12,500
Mar., ’lO 3,422 20,000 Mar., ’l5 10,846 Nil
Sept.,’lo 15,243 15,000 Sept., ’l5 9,892 Nil
Mar.,’ll 28,991 10,000 Mar., ’l6 4,107 Nil
Sept.,’ll 11,479 10,000 Profit.
Loss. Sept., ’l6 13,854 5,000
Mar.,’l2 8,851 10,000jMar„ ’l7 21,137 10,000
Block 10 is one of the very few Broken Hill
cos. that never put up a smelting plant. The
South, Block 14, British, even the Junction,
ran furnaces at one time or another. Block
10 always relied on custom works ; so when
the war started it was in the soup. The old
market for its concentrates being lost, its
mill was closed down from August, 1014, to
May, 1916. That explains the raggedness of
the bottom-end of the foregoing table. Even
before that, though, results were rather
uneven, as they generally are with a mine
which has to potter about looking for ore.
Certainly this co. can see a couple of hun-
dred thousand tons or so ahead : but some of
it isn’t easily got at. Probably a lot more
than 200,000 tons will be raked out; any-
how. the directors have thought it well worth
while to put up a flotation plant to treat the
tailings from the ore that is left in this mine
and in Block 14. The latter co. couldn’t see
quite enough ore to justify the erection of a
milling plant of its own; so Block 10 is'to
take its output at the rate of 1000 tons per
week. Block 10 will thus be kept busy for
the next five to seven years, provided nothing
dreadful happens to the metal markets, and
that isn’t likely; after that it will, on pre-
sent appearances, .have to scratch for a
living.
Seeing the end approaching, and having
saved up a tidy lump of cash, the directors
for a good many years looked around for a
new mine, but got hold of nothing that pro-
mised well till Misima (Papua) came along.
Block 10 has 69,666 shares out of 150,000 in
that co.; it got this interest for £11,200
spent on the mine and £30,000 put to work-


£12,500,000.
The Trust Funds under the control of
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
exceed this figure, thus showing the
confidence in which it is held by the
public.
This Company offers dis-
tinct advantages over the
Private Trustee.
Write for Booklet setting
out particulars of its
Methods and Charges.
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRTDGE,
Manager.
/£areßqanto
Insure in
Tke 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194.235
Paid-up Capital . .. 96,165'6 13
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
W rite for particulars.
. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Train Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney
Telephone: City 4375. Telegraphic: Walls-, Clarence Street.' Svdno.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
'Write or Call for full particulars,
p, . , T. W. GARRETT,
Cul 'e7 l rn2? amb T’c. Public Trustee.
bt Cast lor eagh Street. Sydney.
Bendigo Amalgamated
Goldfields. No Liability.
See Page 34.
mg account. General-manager Ward is up
there getting the machinery in, and the mine
should soon be talking. Including the
£30,000 which it put into Misima and the
£5OO which it put into Hughes’s Zinc Com-
bine, Block 10 has still £75,232 of liquid
assets in excess of liabilities ; and there are
probably a few thousands more to come from
surpluses on metal sales.
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken
Hill Mines: —
Gross Written
Profit. Dividend. Off. Reserves.
Mar., 1910.. £20,357 Nil £7,840 £28,519
Sept., 1910.. 7,620 £9,000 8,098 19,041
Mar., 1911.. 34,094 18,000 7,987 27,148
Sept., 1911.. 37,174 18,000 12,308 34,014
Mar., 1912.. 16,391 9,000 5,281 30,124
Reserves wiped out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912.. 30,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 5,744 Nil 2,928 5,902
Profit.
Sept., 1913.. 22,114 Nil 6,338 21,678
Mar., 1914.. 6,121 Nil 3,578 24,221
Sept., 1914.. 7,633 Nil 3,839 28,015
•Loss.
Mar., 1915. . 18,120 Nil 9,895
Sept., 1915. . 7,602 Nil 2,293
Deficit.
Mar., 1916.. 8,974 Nil 7,117 13,798
Profit.
Sept., 1916.. 696 Nil 3,865 16,967
Mar., 1917.. 28,381 Nil 20,050 8,636
That’s better, but not as much better as it
should be, considering the price of lead, silver
and zinc. The co. has been one of the least
fortunate of Broken Hill main-line proposi-
tions. The mine is at the dislocated north
end of the lode, and a few years ago, when
it was made clear that it could have only a
very short run, its management decided to
try to prolong the co.’s life by going in for
ore-treatment. Young Tom Palmer, the g.m.,
had got round him a staff of very enterpris-
ing Australian youngsters, and they unques-
tionably found out far more than all the rest
of the world knew about slime treatment.
The co. was therefore induced to purchase
large quantities of slime from the mills of
other cos., and it is mainly out of this pro-
duct that the last half-year’s profit lias been
made.
During the term 46,979 tons of slime and
4178 tons of crude ore were treated, as com-
pared with 33,540 tons of slime in the pre-
ceding half-year. The co. sold 7073 tons lead
concentrates and 10,875 tons zinc concen-
trates ; and this has enabled it to substan-
tially reduce its debt for purchased slinjc.
At March 31 its position was : Cash, £18,685 ;
concentrates and slime, £96,746; debtors and
sundries, £45,199; total, £160,630. Liabili-
ties, £38,215. That shows a surplus of
£122,415, apart from whatever the mine may
be worth and whatever profit there may be in
the untreated slime.
It will be noted that the greater part of the
profit made during the past half-year has
been written off. Most of this was very
doubtful profit: £11,476 of it was spent on
the opening up of the mine. The balance is
debited to plant and mine maintenance. The
true profit may be less even than £8331,
because the working life of the plant will
probably be very short. The machinery mav
be good enough, but it is doubtful whether
the co. will be able to buy slime for treat-
ment. Every other co. now knows as much
about slime-treatment as the Junction North
does; and there is no essential thing or pro-
cess which is the exclusive property of that
Company. Still, though there are no
bright prospects ahead, the chances of share-
holders getting a little of their money back
fair The co. is in 180,000 shares paid
to 2os. 3d. The market, however, refuses to
value the shares at half a sovereign, or
£90,000 for the lot. Which seems a pretty
serious reflection on the management, seeing
™t fjre co. shows a present surplus of
±122,416. It says, in plain words: “You
addition to the mine and plant.
±1_w,416 now; but we can trust you to waste
or lose £30,000 of it before it reaches the
shareholders.”. And, on past experience, the
market is entitled to take a gloomy view of
what it is likely to get from the Junction
North.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation is the most pro-
gressive of all the Broken Hill cos., not ex-
cluding even the B. 11. Prop., which has put
a million or two into steel works. Twenty
years ago the Sulphide people tried to estab-
lish the zinc-making industry in Australia;
but they got no help from the politicians of
that day, and the attempt had to be aban-
doned. However, they were good patriots—
Ivmtore, a former Governor of S. Aus., was
chairman—and, dissatisfied with the flow of
the zinc-smelting business to Belgium and
other parts of the Continent, they promoted
a co. to smelt their ore in England, offering
a guarantee for 10 years. The co. has
throughout given a hearing to every new
idea in metal treatment. In the hunt for
means, to reduce costs and improve extrac-
tions it was lately introduced to a process,
the invention of two young Australian engi-
neers, Seale and Shellshear, for agitating
and aerating pulped ores without mechanical
stirring. The flotation process, upon which
the Broken Hill cos. depend for the separa-
tion of the metals after the first crop of
silver-lead has been taken out, is now pretty
generally understood. It consists of froth-
ing up the finely pulped ore and introducing
tar, oil and acid to the mixture —the tar and
oil to take away the lead ; the oil and acid
to float off the zinc. To froth the ore it has
hitherto been stirred ; and that costs money.
The new idea, first developed at the B. H.
Junction North, is most appropriately called
the cascade process, the pulp, with the oil
and acid introduced, being aerated or frothed
by falling, cascade fashion, through a series
of nozzle-shaped iron pipes, from one box
to another. The system has already proved
itself, and besides making as good a recovery
as was possible with the mechanical stirrers,
effects a great saving in power and in wear
and tear, which means costs.
Practically all the Broken Hill mines are
now making experiments in aeration ; and,
outside the Barrier, Wallaroo and Moonta
has decided to cut out the mechanical agita-
tors ; is going into figures on
the question; and Minerals Separation, the
co. which owns the patents covering the
original process arjd the improvements, has
sent A. L. Court to the U.S.A. to experiment
on the copper ores there.
As reported a month or so back. Broken
Hill is simmering again, and the pot boiled
over at the Junction North last week. There
was the usual dispute over the pay of a
handful of men, and this co.’s slime-treat-
ment plant had to be shut down. There is
worse coming—mainly because of the persist-
ent weakness of almost every department of
Government administration on the Barrier.
* * « *
Pending the formation of a new co. to
explore the sulphide zone in lodide (Mineral
Hill), the old co. has been granted six
months’ suspension on the condition that the
mine is meanwhile open to tributors. The
directors of the old co. are now ascertaining
what chance there is of old shareholders sup-
porting a new no-liability co.
* * * *
So far as the market is concerned, Bodan-
gora (N.S.W.) is quite out in the cold be-
cause crushings gradually got poorer. The
latest return was 295A0z. (£1102) from 596
tens. Costs run away with nearly 40s. per
ton. This co. may, however, come again, for
it is doing some very interesting develop-
ment at the Mitchell’s Creek reef, which in
the old workings was payable.
* * ■* _ *
The two Adelong (N.S.W.) shows are
threatening to dip into better ground. Last
week’s return of the big show was 212f0z.
This gives more than a decent margin of
profit on which to start dividend-building.
Next, the Adelong Creek’s No. 2 plant puts
in a 104 oz. record, so that it looks as if it
may have at last dodged into the strip of
rich stuff for which it has been angling for
months. If No. 1 could be but on to the
better bores higher up the creek the chances
are that it would soon cease to be a dead
weight; but even consulting-engineer Moline
can’t arrange a “tank”-like flit. Possibly
that is why Gordon Lyon has disappeared
from the Melbourne Block to reappear at
Adelong.
Tyrconne] North Co., which lost money in
North Queensland, has gone to a spot
beyond Laverton (W.A.) to try for a re-
covery. The show that it has got hold of
on appro, is stated to have a 4ft. reef worth
an ounce, and to have other formations
from which several thousand pounds have
been gouged in the past. The locality is one
of rich patches and many pitfalls.
Hansel Mundy, alias Chaffinch, has
thrown up its option at Goongarrie (W.A.)'.
The Board wanted an extension of time, but
considered the vendors’ terms prohibitive,
and as shares were being forfeited whole-
sale the blind was hurriedly pulled down.
* * * #
The hopelessness of long-winded geologi-
cal reports and the absurdity of sending
along a geologist to an outback leaseholder
to tell him that his slate wall is amygda-
loidal schist lias been realised by Minister
for Mines Robinson (W.A.). Instructions
have already been issued to put into under-
standable words all geological literature
issued by the Department, and many other
matters interesting to the prospector, whose
dying breath is generally a curse against
Mines Department standoffishness, are re-
ceiving attention.
At present water is. the subject of most
importance to the various cos. at Westonia
(W.A.). Edna May Co. has an elaborate
electric pumping-plant installed at the 300 ft.
level, from which Central, Deeps and Con-
solidated say they receive little if any
benefit. It is all a difficult matter to prove
in a legal way, but some day the Edna May
pumps may cease working, and in that event
adjoining cos. will have it demonstrated to
them that the Edna May pumps have been
of great assistance indeed. Meanwhile argu-
ment might be suspended.
* * * *
Edna May, Centrals and Deeps are all
crosscutting at various levels for the pay
streak, and as each strike occurs the market
will respond in a manner dangerous to the
uneducated. The innocents have had a bad
time with Westonia stocks recently.
* * * *
Commodore, Meekatharra (W.A.), is to
have a double-barrelled management. F. L.
Bell, one time under Mararoa Henderson,
steps into dead Parramore’s shoes, and V.
Hawkins, of the Fenian, becomes consulting
engineer. The Board also provides a Cd.
call as a war-time luxury. Why? Is it
because the battery tests of the Macquarie
lease don’t tally with the sampling?
James Hebbard, of the Sulphide Corpora-
tion’s B.H. Central mine, has been let off
the chain to run the rule over the New Langi
Logan, Ararat (Vic.). It isn’t his first visit
there, and he figures as one of the biggest
holders in the show ; and if rumor isn’t lying,
there is a big bale of Langi scrip lying in
the cupboard of the Gibbs Bright crowd,
who are the Australian agents for the Sul-
phide Corp. Hebbard . gets on to the Langi
just in time; for although the staff has been
pulled off development work and shot into
the stopes in order to stave off calls, the
results have been poor. The truth is that
even the 2oz. dirt in the Cathcart Central
lead can’t be mined at a profit if it has to
be yanked out as wet as a sponge. As the.
co. has only about 2500 ft. of this lead to
sweeten up the Langi • gutter dirt, it is
madness to mine the dirt so green for the
sake of escaping a few calls. Hebbard doesn’t
want for pluck; so he will probably tell
them to go in for hard development work
instead of board-room mining. The big strain
on the pumps at No. 2 shaft ought to be eased
so as to get the water away from the Cath-
cart gutter, and the Langi lead ought to be
crossed from the southern end of the. No. 1
shaft workings to cut off the water from
No. 2 pumps. That, too, would give an idea
of the gold right across the big lead. The
last outsiders who tried their bands at
reporting on deep-lead shows came from the
Hoover-Moreing camp, and were led by
Waldemar Lindgren, the big Yankee geolo-
gist. Even the exceptionally brainy Hoover
could not make a do of alluvial work. So
Hebbard will be shouldering a heap of
responsibility if he tries to go beyond the
solid engineering job of setting out a work-
ing programme for a wet, untried mine.
Louis Hansen, formerly manager of
Birthday Tunnel (Yic.), has been pegging
out in Ballarat West and E. G. Vaudrey
has taken up an end-on section. Old John
Leishman, George Buchanan, W. Dalrymple
and astute little Arty \Jckery are suspected
of being the Fatmen behind the pair. The
Welkin reef goes through the two blocks,
and if a decent prospect is panned off this
team has more than a pound or two to put
into the ground—or the market. In the
dim, misty past a lot of pigrooting on the
same line failed to unearth anything much,
so Ballarat is exceedingly languid over the
new intrusion. But, then, Ballarat is lan-
guid nowadays over everything. A few of
the more wideawake want the Plateau shows
amalgamated, and' are looking for a Teddy
Dyason to do it; but it would take an Edison
to galvanise that district, even if a fusion
could be arranged.
On Cloncurry (Q.), Cuthbert, Elliott and
Corella have all blown in, and Cuthbert’s
157 tons of blister from 2079 tons ore isn’t
too bad, for it is nearly S p.c. Corella is
employing three shifts, and the smelter should
get a good deal of customs ore, for there are
many small shows on the river. Elliott will
draw- ore from Hampden Consols, the Great
Australia and the Dobbin, and the bottom
levels generally show a fine width of stone.
The Great Australia was a famous surface
mine in the early ’seventies: it produced
oxides and native copper in rich pockets, and
the more-recently discovered low-grade calcite
and dolomite will come in handy as flux. The
Dobbin is developed from 200 ft. to 380 ft. in
depth, and some wide stopes of medium-
grade are available.
* * * *
Corella copper, Cloncurry (Q.), has taken
up an ironstone lease for fluxing purposes.
There are always a number of fossickers in
the Corella district, and a handy smelting
base near the river is certain of a supply of
customs .ore if returning charges * are
moderate. The Rosebud mine doesn’t con-
tain large reserves, and ore left in the upper
levels is difficult to get at. Fortunately the
Corella district contains a number of surface
shows, and the co. has—so far as its finances
permit—adopted a similar policy to Hampden
and Mount Elliott in securing options. The
Sunset, Better Land and Jubilee copper
shows are said to offer attractive prospects.
*.* * *
Ore going 1.05 p.c. tin has meant bread
and scrape at the Mt. Bischoff Extended for
many a long day. Hence the cry of joy over
the white metal moving to £250 per ton; for
if the parity of that is available here, the
co. may surprise us all with a div. Last six
months’ working was a close shave, for it
took £10,516 to earn £10,898. The reason
is that the country is as tough as jasper, and
costs can’t then be kept very low when the
shoots are only up to 21 inches wide. The
co. has been using up cash to ram in a new
tunnel, and it rejoices in having got on to
the Haulage lode. The proud Board thinks
mny provide a valuable ore supply.
Well, it will have to improve a lot, for all
it shows now is a dirty face 12 inches wide
in well-defined walls 3ft. apart. This
isnt much to crow over; but John Ditcli-
nurn s little flock is a patient lot.
* * *• *
The U.S.A. Steel Corporation did mar-
vellously in 1910. Gross receipts were
£254,921,900w0rking exes., £184.607,500;
net income, £70,314,400. Against this
£6,746.200 is charged for depreciation, leav-
ing the enormous sum of £63.568,200 avail-
able as profit. And there are others. For
instance, Bethlehem Steel declared a divi-
dend of 30 p.c., and there is an overflow
or. unfilled orders for practically all iron
and steel products, particularly 'shell steel
barbed wire. A few days ago Sir
William Robertson, of the British War
Department, stated that in about five weeks
no less than 200,000 tons of ammunition
had been transported over the railways in
France, and in addition rorne . 50,000 tons
of inetal is required for road-making.
* ** * *
Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-Houston Direct and Alternat-
ing Current Generators for your power and lighting
supply. There are more 8.T.11. Generators in opera-
tion in Australia than any other make. The reason
is reliability. Write for further particulars and
quotations to the Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.—Advt.
* * " -x- , x .
• ! l ew invention that is attracting marked atten-
tion is an all-steel fence made and designed in
Australia, by the Rawson Moody Manufacturing Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney. It is built with powerful
steel posts and droppers, in conjunction with which
is used a powerful non-stretch steel wire, and the
whole makes a dandy fence that is simple, strong
and cheap, as it costs only 15s. to £1 per chain
complete. Catalogue on request.—Advt.
“Actions speak louder than words,” says the old
)>i overh, and it is certainly true. The Government
ot Western Australia, after exhaustive tests, selected
Aclamax Roofing for use on the Wyndham Freezing
YYorks on the North-West Coast. Again, it takes
IffCwt. 26 gauge galvanised-iron to cover 100
square feet. One roll of Adamax AsphaltUm Roof-
ing covers 200 square feet, costs one-third price of
iron, and the steamer freight and railage is at least
one-third that of galvanised iron. Adamax does not
affect drinking water. Write for samples and free
booklet to sole agents: William Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide
Advt.
* * * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can he dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.—Advt. rg
* * * *
When considering economy there can be no satis-
factory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe. The
ideal pressure pipe, manufactured in all sizes from
3 inches to 14 feet in diameter. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited. Head office: 57 York Street, Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. Factories:
Lane Cove River, N.S.W., Footscray, Vic., and Port
Adelaide, S.A.—Advt.
* * * *
The Hettou Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application,
the above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.—Advt.
* * * *
There may be a doubt about the wisdom of a
bunding investment at present, but there’s no doubt
whatever about the wisdom of building with Spriggs’
Asbestolite.. Strength, durability, toughness, range
of sizes and reasonable price are Asbestolite cliarac-
teristies. Get Booklet “B.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite
Co., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * » *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—Advt.
* * * »
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.—Advt.
* •* * „
For sale, second-hand, in excellent order, good
reas n given for selling: “National” Special Electric
Lig t Type Double 'Cylinder Gas Engine, with two
(2) Suction Gas Plants, power 254b.h.p. continuous
at sea level. Also, another engine as above, but
Power 316b.h.p., continuous at sea level, with two
(2) Suction Gas Plants. Apply Arthur Leplastrier
* Co., Circular Quay; or Australian Machinery Co.,
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock amj Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. —Advt.
* * « *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins "street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances Weights Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars H B
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney • and
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt. } J
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page SJf.),


Under
Royal
Warrant
fas
ToH.M.
King
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
IuSK
•CHAMPAGNE
tariesHeidsia
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
a
‘xosie
ALLAN 4. CO.
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/»
Norwegian Cradle Song — MW
Meditation • * Morel
A Resolve * • Kotlar
Question •• - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN'S. 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE-
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1900.
FESQ <Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
POLLEN
df
& ZOON'S
’SEAHORSE"
SCHNAPPS
GUARANTEED BY BRITISH CONSUL AT ROTTERDAM
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVIN
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, May 21, IPI7.
My Dear Akim. —
Dr. Laura Forster, who died from heart-
failure after an influenza attack at Zalesli-
chiki (Galicia), was a daughter of the late
William Forster, who sat in N. S. Wales
Parliament in the early days. He was Pre-
mier for about live months in 1559-GO. Dr.
Laura got her diploma at Berne (Switzer-
land), and early in the Big Scrum joined the
Belgium Field Hospital at Antwerp. Later,
she went to Petrograd, then to the Caucasus
with the Russian Bed Cross, then to Erze-
rum, and finally to her last call at Zales-
chiki.
The Papal Delegate, Archbishop Cerretti,
is packing up his handsome purple millinery
for an early departure to Borne. The
picturesque Italian is going through an ex-
haustive round of farewell parties in con-
sequence. The G.-G. and his lady gave a
good-bye lunch to the traveller at Admiralty
House, and the Tom Daltons, of North Syd-
ney (they belong to the Orange family) gave
a garden party to the prelate on a gorgeous
afternoon.
An American-Australian League ,of Help
is sorting out socks and other comforts
in a fervor of enthusiasm. Associated the
other day, these ladies are rallying
over their knitting needles, to take
counsel as to practical ways of helping their
countrymen in the trenches. The first lot
oi' Uncle Sam’s boys will be in that universal
address by the time Mrs. Brittain (wife of
the U.S.A. Consol) and Mrs. Plogsted, pre-
sident, have rolled up their sleeves for full
action.
Marie Tempest, still wonderfully attrac-
tive in spite of a rather gruff voice and the
years that the locust hath eaten, wears some
fascinating stage-clothes. There’s a pink
confection topped by a gauzy hat of the type
Romney loved to paint. Also, a wisp of
ninon, probably classed as a tea-jacket, that
goes with a froth of lacy skirt. The final
triumph is a pastel-tint made of stuff that
looks like a drapery of thin cloud trimmed
with an insertion of cobweb. In this she
elopes with her husband (I’m telling
you about “The Marriage of Kitty”), cov-
ered by a solid British travelling-coat and a
fearsome hat of tam-o’-shanter descent. The
Criterion was full to the uttermost chair on
the first night. In the manager’s box Kathleen
MacDonell’s red locks shone above a wisp
of green drapery. She was with mother.
One of the Philip Morton girls sat demure
in raven upholstery in the opposite pen, and
contrived to wear the new forehead bandeau
without detracting from her sleek locks. Mrs.
Spencer Brunton, with her eldest boy in
khaki —he has just left the Grammar School
—was in the stalls. Mrs. Charlie Waldron,
the handstome Steer Bowker lady, the
family of Levy, and most of Potts Point’s
diamonds and precious paste were also pre-
sent. Mr. Arthur Allen shepherded his
nice-looking girls, and amongst others were
Mr. Reggie Allen and his lady. Furs and
velvet predominated.
Concerning coiffures, the narrow black
band our Nicest Girls consider necessary to
their beauty these nights is about the most
unsightly decoration of the season. It is
tightly strapped round the forehead; the
hair is dragged well off the alleged intelligence
department, and the effect is, generally speak-
ing, a mixture of early Egyptian hussy’s and
modern chorus lady’s get-up.
Nora Kingston Moore, daughter of a re-
tired naval officer hereabouts, has kindly
accepted an engagement-ring from Sergeant
Groves-Pearce, of the A.I.F. He’s a Dor-
setshire man. Nora and sister Marjorie
have been untiring amongst the entertainers
who at the Rawson Institute liven up Jack’s
shore-leave.
Do you remember Boadicea Monk, the Syd-
ney girl who married Lieut. Stanley Fre-
mantle at Oxford a little while ago? He
got back to the trenches after 10 days’ honey-
moon, and now his wife spends her time cheer-
ing up wounded soldiers in Blighty. Mostly she
drives them about in her car when" the
weather permits. Mrs. Monk, still on the
other side (it’s a good time to stay on dry
land), is ladling out hot soup, etc., in a
Y.M.C.A. canteen, and otherwise looking
after the comfort of munition-workers.
The concert to push the funds of the Good
Shepherd Home (Ashfield) had too many
’•iiil'ty chairs, and that doesn't cheer the
appearance of our bleak Town Hall on a
winter’s night. Kate Rooney charmed those
who attended when she sang “Abide with
Me” (Lilian Frost at the organ). Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, in lilac striped muslin, e-locuted
about Mabel held in a strong embrace while
her young man led her across the “jewy
fields.” Carrie Lanceley’s tuneful soprano,
and reinforcements supplied by Sid Mac-
donald, Marsh Little and Warwick McKen-
zie completed a rather drab programme.
One of the recently-decorated nurses, Miss
Gertrude Fletcher, is a Maorilander who
.was trained in Prince Alfred Hospital, Syd-
ney. She’s had an adventurous career since
she washed-up dishes in the early stages of
her F.A.H. duties. She saw war-service in
the Boer argument. When the row with
Prussia began she was appointed matron of
a war hospital in Devon. Lately she’s been
looking after wounded Atkins while lie’s
being soled and heeled in the big Richmond
. Military Hospital.
Three daughters of Dr. Chappie (now
M.P. for Stirling in the House of Commons)
are doing their whack for wounded on the
other side. Yet it seems only the other day
that they were long-legged kiddies in Wel-
lington (M.L.), and winning prizes at young-
sters’ swimming carnivals.
According to a hard-working Red Grosser
(Mrs. Jim Ashton) the ordinary citizen
doesn’t know what the Male Voluntary Aid
is doing in time. For instance,
when a train goes north to Bris-
bane with returned wounded the Y.A. goes
all the way to look after them. Trained
in First Aid and Home Nursing they
give good service to the sick Kangaroo.
Last week eight men were called up
from the Newtown Voluntaries, to be
on Central Station to take charge of the
Red Cross outfit. Most of these sturdy
helpers are working for their living—yet
they provide their own smart uniforms and
do duty on days that count as holidays in their
employers’ books—to wait on Billzac, or ten-
derly carry the cot cases at Wallangarrn
from one train to another. At Brisbane
Mrs. Price, of North Quay, entertains
the men who are thus able to return
nearly all out-of-pocket expenses the Red
Cross may have advanced. This is about the
first public mention these unostentatious
workers have had during 18 months’ solid
graft. Perhaps it may inspire some of our
leisure-loving club-men to get out of their
arm-chairs on a similar trail.
The Conservatorium held' a big audience
to welcome Alfred Hill as the 1917 conduc-
tor of the Apollo Club. In the long ago it
was the Maorilander who batoned the old
Liedertafel. That was before Germany
turned hog on us. The Amateur Orchestral
Society, which appeared to be very dead at
the end of 1916, is again alive. It joined
melodiously up with the Apollos the other
night to get the best out of David’s Sym-
phonic Ode, “The Desert.” The result was
an admirable ensemble of voice and orchestra.
Newbury, the tenor, had the solo that every
tenor is supposed to dote on—“O Lovely
Night”—and was happier singing it than in
the subsequent chant (or bellow) of the
Muezzin. The second half of the programme
was the brighter for Carrie Lanceley and
Frank Hutchens.. Here’s a May Moore
photo of Hill as he looks to-day.
Humphrey Bishop, a well-known English
baritone, is passing through Sydney on his
way to Java, Japan and India. S’Africa
may be included in the tour. Two Sydney
girls will be auxiliary attractions of the
concerts. One is Marguerite Edwards, a
clever young pianist. The other is Mary
Geary, a contralto. She is remarkable for
her likeness to Nellie Stewart. So you
needn’t be told that she has a mop of golden
curls and a piquant nose. ,
Years ago Fred Leist, then one of
Sydney’s best black-and-white artists, took
stock of his prospects. He didn’t like them,
One day he suddenly confronted a friend and
shouted, “I’ve done it! I’ve scratched
together enough to have some study at the
Academy Julien in Paris. After that, the
deluge if you like!” Then the artist, one
of the best of good fellows, took his smile
and his swag to Paris. When he got to
V ' T ° Poadi)n he had a struggle, but lie
won through, and . his signature began to
appear regularly in the leading English
illustrated publications on work that stood
out fresh and bo d. compared with the more
conventional British artists drawings.
Though the war has hit Leist probably as
hard as it has hit any other of his fellows
iu Chelsea, his cheery smile is iu the
old place. Here is a photo taken just before
he left Sydney, The Bulletin had made
some remarks about the artist’s modesty at
that date. In a little painting of a girl
and a cow, no legs were visible. The lady s
skirts and the grass hid the animal’s limbs, '
so everything was exceedingly proper. Leist
had this nhoto. taken as in the act of paint-
ini? the nietnre
’
The R.A. Society’s rooms were like ant-
beds the other afternoon, when art patrons
surged round to inspect Edward Officer's
pictures. The form of patriotism which
enables the patrons of genius to give, say,
£25 to the Red Cross, and get a good picture
of the Outback. country . (this is Officer’s
strongest work in a varied collection of 61
exhibits) is made feasible through the artist s
generosity. A year s hard work is repre-
sen ted at this show.
Melba bought in 1916 (and returned to
be sold again for the Red Cross) one of the
iinest of the collection, “Plains of the Dar-
ling.” In this, as in all his best efforts, the
Victorian cleverly depicts the golden haze
of a summer day out West, with a tempera-
ture of 110° or so in the shade. In “Even-
ing Light,” snapped up at once, you get the
burning glow of the sunset that beats like,
hot coal. Mrs. Box secured a French
scene. S. F. Mann (Melbourne) is going to
keep “The Banks of the Darling." Mrs.
limes Watt, Mrs. Hebden and Miss Icely
were in the first rush of. buyers. Women
were so keen that it was like a hat sale, till
the V.A.D.’s, Mrs. Maxwell Allan. and Miss
Sliand, with the Red Cross on their pinnies,
straightened things out and booked the names
and addresses of those who felt the call to
unload 10 or 12 guineas to the cause. Lady
Helen opened the show, and A.D.C. Haskett
Smith was the ornament “in attendance."
Sister Baxter, just back with a men-
tioned-in-dispatches to her credit, is likely
to go off again, on a date I daren’t mention.
Besides, I don’t know it.
Eva Mylott, of the Titian thatch and deep
contralto, is about to hand herself over to the
care of one Hutton Gibson, whose address is
Chirago.
The Clarence Bridges, who have three
sons doing service for the Empire, expect
shortly to take the sea-track that leads to
India, where sons Wallace and Lionel are
on frontier duty. Clarence, the third boy,
is back again in home waters, after sundry
years “somewhere” with our navy.
Massed bands will serenade the. earlier
arrivals at the Town Hall this Thursday
evening on the occasion of the concert to
raise money for the Soldiers’ Entertainment
Committee. Mrs. Verbrugghen, Humphrey
Bishop, an English baritone on the wing, and
a backing of Tivoli and J. C. Williamson
talent will make up the evening’s programme.
Good-natured Joe Wolinski, a Sydney
artist who has been in Uncle Sam’s land of
late, recently in New York hauled two small
children out of freezing water into which
they had fallen. One dropped through the
thin ice on the surface, and an older girl
went to his aid. The Australian, painting a
snowy landscape from his adjacent studio
window, rushed to the rescue. That accom-
plished, he carried them home, his clothes
half-frozen on his body. None of the adven-
turers, however, were any the worse for the
dip. Wolinski’s name is down for the Car-
negie medal.
Billy Murdoch, the Australian pianist who
used to play such a rattling good game of
tennis, now makes music in the Grenadier
Guards’ band.
Army Service depot enthusiasts have bor-
rowed two perambulating coffee-stalls (the
real thing, and no mistake!) to attract six-
pences on Red Triangle Day. Mrs. H. Y.
Braddon and Hilda Caro are the boss refresh-
ment vendors, and their sign is: “For every
cup you buy from us our boys in the
trenches will get three from the Y.M.C.A.”
Then the A.S.C. girl will tempt you with a
sandwich. After bolting 46 coffees and ham
you are awarded an Indigestion Cross and
given a free pardon.
The Red Cross is snaring tons of news
papers and magazines by big wire cages at
the Central Station and elsewhere. Outback
station-masters might note. After a long
train journey the yawning traveller clings
to his rug, his suitcase and his hat.
lie’s looking for a bin for his papers, and the
Kangaroo wants them.
"Any old linen to give away?” Some-
where a voice is calling, and I fancy it comes
froth the Town Ilall cellar. That’s where
they make white mice (not the kind that
gobble the wheat) and other surgical ban-
dages for the Front. Anjr_ old sheets, table*
linen and soft rags to bind up Billjim’s
wounds? But don’t send dirt and mildew
in your package.
Have you noticed that our girls’ boots are
lengthening more than ever'this winter? Yet
there’s talk of a shortage in leather!
A Field Artillery reinforcements’ comforts
fund committee did Trojan work selling
tickets for their I'ecent show in St. James’s
Hall. Two lady scouts got rid of about
200. There’s a handsome cheque to come.
The 2nd D.A.C. and 22nd Howitzer com-
mittee expect to bank about £54 as the pro-
fits from their flutter in St. James’s Hall
on April 27.
Red Triangle Day (June 1) heralds its
approach in the shape of huge baskets with
the Y.M.C.A." anneal tied round their middle.
It will take a Tush of local millionaires to
fill these wicker caverns. I’ve seen several
of the receptacles lurking in quiet pi’emises
already, so somebody hopes to catch moun-
tains of cash.
Some of the outlying Red Cross
convalescent homes have had troubles
not anticipated by their generous founders.
One, on the north side of the Harbor,
is likely to be closed in consequence
of a bad element, usually “pommie,”
that has been not infrequently “in-
valided” before it sa.«- J *the firing-line. An
ex-non-com. in the A.I.F. writes in caustic
accents of the men who have done the
damage. “This place is ideal—to the Aus-
tralian soldier. But it’s no good to the
imported crowd, who never knew such luxury
in their lives. Most of them came out as
deck-hands, firemen, cook’s-mates, etc., on
tramps before the war. Then they ’listed.
When their objectionable conduct can no
longer be tolerated even by the gentle
V.A.D.’s, the local bobby has to be sent for
to get them off the premises. We push them
out of the place, but , still hang
about, cadge from local residents, and come
bounding back full of liquor and language.
Then the police-station receives another
urgent call for help. Yet everything here is
as perfect as it can be made hr the ladies
who have for two years put up with this sort
of thing. The decent Australian soldier is
likely to he.nr the front door slam on
all and sundry before long. The commit-
tee is disgusted, and there’s to be a meeting
of subscribers to wind-up this beautiful
haven for sick men.”
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


it
BLACK
and
WHITE
99
siSiiil:
Mi as WfS
1
mm
m-m
■
■
;7
m
■
• 7 'V'
few
j
S;:v,
:U.
-
mm
■
V
■
„Aalw V, f ,;
IMra m :
77
I
fete
sspss . - I
' SI
. ggsi
Si
fIHHI H | 1
ills; . ? /!, Jus? . , . -a
7\ .;. % :
1
■ V
■
.
■
i
i—l «P
MlSt—
&», • ' Sv * **
nMfPESBf? - g
S^’’V>' ~ 1 fejißßjl Vfev
.fn 1 ' » : • VT'N •*
■HHRfifetr -^KKKK^KSBBBm
. i H
J*~ ' ■"
-,
7
■■:■■fl »
y 7 ."' *
H
H
■ i
■HU
7
■ii
-r
7
HHH
gt YORKSHIRE LIGHT INFANTRY."
WHISKY


cs/l€
c Aai/
vwm,
©ld
m
Carnage Paid .
cirmerS s^s
: U\Wv '
KNIVES THAT
NEITHER STAIN
NOR RUST
Henceforth the Knife-
cleaning Board can be
put up on a shelf—
even high enough
“where time and dust
doth corrupt”—for
stainless Cutlery is
with us—“ Come as a
boon and a blessing.”
Should the children use
them on acid
Fruits —if per-
chance they are
left in vinegar,
they will not
stain or rust.
Rustless Stainless
Cutlery
Every Knife is Guaranteed.
TABLE KNIVES:
37/6 per dozen.
DESSERT KNIVES:
35/- per dozen.
HOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
Few people besides physicians realise the
importance of keeping the food contents
of the stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy, normal digestion cannot take place
while the delicate lining of the stomach is
being inflamed and distended by acid and
wind—the results of fermenting food in the
stomach. To secure perfect digestion, fer-
mentation must be stopped or prevented, and
the acid neutralised. For this purpose
physicians usually recommend getting a little
Hsurated magnesia from the chemist and
taking half a teaspoonful in a little hot. or
cold waiter immediately after eating. They
recommend Hsurated magnesia because it is
pleasant to take, has no disagreeable after-
effects, and quickly stops fermentation, neu-
tralises the acid and makes the sour,' acid
food bland, sweet and easily digested.
The regular use of Usurated magnesia—
be sure you get the Usurated, as other kinds
of magnesia are not so valuable—is a guar-
antee of healthy, normal digestion, for it
overcomes and prevents that acid condition
which alone is the cause of trouble. —Advt.
SOHETHING
DIFFERENT
ABOUT A
"BUCKLEY'S”
OVERCOAT.
IT’S THE STYLE
AND QUALITY
MOSTLY.
&
>*s§r
V'V
IKWKUKH -
TT ■ <
82451. Double-Breasted
Chesterfield in grey and brown
Cheviot Tweeds
84/-
Also in other qualities
from 59/6
CLOTHES for MEN
WHO TAKE
AN INTEREST
IN
THEMSELVES.
Write for Patterns.
JTelbourne’s Premier Store:
BUCKLEY S NUNN
LIMITED.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, May 21, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie. —
The Stanley dame headed the big meeting
of the British Red Crossers at the Town
Hall last week to arrange the details of But-
ton Day—May 24. The council room was
packed with important and less im-
portant people. Sympathetic references
were made to the late Vice-President
Felstead. her Ex. feelingly referring to his
loss. She wore a hat trimmed with gold
lace, blue ribbands and pink roses. She
implored the V.A.D.’s to rally round Mrs.
Woolcott. Mrs. George Fairbairn sat at
the council table with a military black tuft
shooting up from her hat, and the Hennessy
dame smiled in pink at the head of the table.
Her Patriotic League was praised in every
direction. Mrs. Woolcott (organiser) looked
serious under a pancake hat of straw. Her
lawyer husband sat at her elbow. Mrs.
Godfrey sat with her daughter and Mrs.
Crevelli was adjacent. Mrs. Sadlier came
from the hardworking Austral Salon. Mrs.
Robins (from the Y.M.C.A. Soldiers’ Home)
was perfectly garbed in blue serge.
The Italian Red Cross is to be helped
forward next month with a big show. Re-
member that there has been more hard fight-
ing on the mountains.
Ada Reeve is making a special appeal for
the Anzac Buffet. She has thrown £lOO of
her own money into the hat, and donors are
invited to send either goods or cash. She
will auction the goods on the stage at a
later date. About £3OOO a year is needed to
keep the indispensable Anzac Buffet going.
The preparations for Ye Olde English
Fayre are exciting. Sassiety women, used
to having their own sweet way, are fretting
at being pinned to historical accuracy in
dress. Quite a dozen dames who want to
strut as Queen Elizabeth are irritated
because the authorities rule old Bess out of
it merely because she was dead at the period
portrayed. The flappers all want to be Puri-
tans, while the women of the Arts
and Crafts are trying to key themselves up to
wear the leather jerkins and pants of crafts-
men of the time.
The Cavaliers who are to ride along the
blocks of the city on Friday, Saturday and
Monday at the beginning of June are grow-
ing in numbers. Dorothy Low and Rene
Murray will lead the procession, and David’s
sister will sprout a fine-pointed red-gold beard
to match her hair and black-velvet masculine
garments. Rene Murray already has shorn
her black hair into cute short ringlets, and
has hobbled a show-horse from the parental
country stables. The Mounted Police are
lending their fine horses for the occasion, so
there should be a good turn out.
The Red Cross Gymkhana at Moonee
Valley on Saturday drew a big crowd. There
was a hunt over three miles of big fences, in
which more than 30 riders and a pack of
hounds started. Miss McCulloch, wearing
grey, was perched on a grey horse. Mrs.
Embling ''was out, also Violet Hiskins and
Eileen Fitzsimmons. George Armstrong wore
one of the two oink coats, and mamma
Melba went proudly into the saddling-paddock
to see him mount. She was encased in a
huge fur coat, high spatted boots and a straw
belltopper. The diminutive Fitzclarence
lady with her wore a cute little tricorner
hat and a flaring overcoat of black cloth,
edged with seal and showing a deep purple
silk lining.
At the beginning of the gallop one of the
Melbourne Hunt Club horses dropped dead
from heart failure, his rider managing to
get clear with a bruised leg. At the back
of the course Sergeant-Major Curran had a
bad spill and injured his spine; and toward
the end Captain Holgate came a cropper,
which looked very serious. He was riding
superbly on a black horse and was well in
the running until he reached the home fence.
The accident brought the Hunt to an abrupt
finish.
Essendon women supplied and sold the
tea and cakes, under the guiding hands of
Mrs. Cole, Mrs. Goldsworthy, Mrs. Mott,
Miss Buller, the Kemp girls and Miss
McGill. They were all very smartly dressed
in black-and-white and pink, and one sweet
girl who found ninepence hard to count said,
“Sixpences for tea are much more easily
counted! Why couldn’t they charge six-
pence ?”
General Williams had a tea-party, and
Dr. Niall and Dr. Murray Morton hosted
others. Mrs. Watt and daughter Mrs.
Bonnie Symons also indulged in the cheer-
ing cup. Allister Clarke did the judging and
a big party of his womenfolk were in the
saddling-paddock.
The Madame Melba Free Kindergarten is
out after help for the winter. A jumble sale
by auction is being arranged for June, and
donations of clean clothes and household
effects will be welcomed at 23 Clifton-street,
Richmond.
Roy Bridges, compiler of the vivid Gallipoli
war-book, “The Immortal Dawn,” modestly
says that Be is not a “soldier-journalist,”
but is simply a journalist who is doing his
best with his pen for the Australian Repatria-
tion Fund. His book—a patriotic labor of love
—is the selected result of other Australians'
first-hand battle impressions as recorded in
diaries and letters, and all the cash pro-
ceeds go to the fund.
Poor little Bertie Manifold, the hope of
the Camperdown family,, has been killed in
France. The rich young warrior bequeathed
£3OOO to the Geelong Grammar School, to
endow scholarships for the sons of Old Boys.
Bertie himself was a rather young Old Boy
of the school.
Tennis champion Norman Brookes has
gone to Mesopotamia to do Red Cross work.
The death of Frank Carse in France has
saddened a very rich and hospitable section
of Toorakese. lie was a grandson of the late
Faulltiner, of Riverina. Mrs. Frank and her
very small baby girl are in England, and
another baby, a two-year-old, is staying with
the grandmother at Fairlie House. Carse
was a lawyer who stood for a seat at the
Federal elections before last. He was wounded
in the Gallipoli fighting, recovered and went
on to the trenches in France.
The dance invitations issued by Margot
Mcßean and Mrs. Frank Brett are can-
celled. The two hostesses are of the
Faulkiner clan, and the death of Frank
Carse has nlunged the whole family into
mourning.
Mrs. Guy Sherwood, back from her travels,
has been staying at the Oriental. The
bereaved lady has been in deep mourning
since the death' of aviator-son Athol. Her
second son, also with the Flying Corps, is
reported missing.
Melbourne lost one of its brilliant boys last
week —Frank McCutchan, a son of the secre-
tary of the Harbor Trust. In the early days
of the great trouble the War Office asked
Australia to send three young engineering
graduates from each of its principal Unis., to
take commissions in the Royal Engineers,
and McCutchan, a Wesley boy, was one of
the Melbourne three. He has been working
in France most of the time since then —and
dreaming of the Australia that he passion-
ately loved. When not engineering he made
hobbies of chess and music.
Dr. Klatchko, the good-looking Russian,
lately returned from Westralia, lingers
on club steps in Collins-street in mufti. Well-
cut grey tweeds have taken the place of his
khaki blouse. Perhaps he'll revert to uni-
form when the Bear ambles forward again.
Rupert Clarke is back in Melbourne,
debonair as usual, but with a limp, a walk-
ing-stick and looking a little greyer. He is
showing off the newest male fashion in
tweeds —a real waist with a full skirt to the
short coat. We’re apparently going to have
a revival of the fashions of Dickens’s youth.
The widow of Bert Armytage is back in
Melbourne with her small girl, and is putting
up at brother-in-law George Chirnside’s
humpy at Werribee. She and the exquisite
Chirnside dame were two of the Watson
girls of Gerogery (N.S.W.).
Lady Susan Fitzclarence, who came from
’Frisco with Melba and is staying at Coombe
Cottage, is the young widow of a soldier
killed in France. She is a handsome little
lady.
Melba had a birthday on Saturday, but
w T ould not celebrate it because of the illness
of' daughter-in-law Mrs. Armstrong, who is
just convalescent enough to travel home to
Coombe Cottage from her Collins-street flat.
However, flowers, greetings and presents
reached the singer at the Conservatorium,
and she lunched with Lady Susan Fitz-
clarence and George Allan.
Adelaide’s dispatch:—
This week has seen the deluge, especially in the
southern suburbs, where incessant rain and violent
hail choked and flooded gutters, piled up ice to Such
an extent that it had to be shovelled off the roofs
of houses, and knocked gardens into chaos. Now
householders are taking stock of their sodden ceilings
and rain-marked walls, and wondering how in the
name of housekeeping they are to get their carpets
dry. Nursery gardens that lay in the track of the
storm have practically ceased to exist.
The aeroplane exploit in Egypt that brought Lieut.
Baillieu his M.C. won the same decoration for
Lieut. R. M. Smith, of this State, the second son
of the Andrew Smiths, of Mutooroo, near Broken
Hill. He enlisted with the Light Horse in October,
1914, and changed from that division to the machine-
guns before he finally joined the Flying Corps. “It
was a fine performance on Baillieu’s part,” he wrote.
“He made a most difficult landing on unknown
ground, and successfully got the machine off again,
with a heavy load.” The 60-mile trip back had to
be made at a maximum height of 500 ft., as the
machine refused to climb any higher. You remem-
ber, of course, that they landed to pick up the pilot
of another ’plane that had come to grief near a big
Turkish camp, and that Abdul was nearly on our
man when they hauled him aboard.
A fair at the Frank Fishers’ house at Brighton
added to the credit balance of the local Trench Com-
forts committee on Saturday. Morris dancers and
a spinning exhibition were its chief side-shows.
Lady Downer, who came back to S.A. some time ago,
and is settled with her small son in North Adelaide,
formally declared the show open. By the way, the
Central Trench Comforts committee of this State
slipped a special box for General Birdwood amongst
its Christmas gifts. The last mail brought the
chairman, Mrs. Lendon, a letter of thanks that spoke
of the “grand and self-sacrificing work done by oui
men,'’ and the “exceedingly trying time” they had
in the winter.
Lieut. J. C. Wright, who had enlisted prior to his
appointment as principal of our School of Art, and
was given leave of absence by the Ministry, has
been killed in action, less than two months after he
over to France. After four years’ work at
the Aberdeen School of Arts, Scotland, he was sent
to the Royal College of Art, London, upon the advice
of such men as Frainpton and Clausen, A.R.A s.
There he specialised in sculpture before going to New
South Wales, where he did excellent work. Other
names in the casualty list are those of Capt. Clive
Burden, who was killed by falling underneath a
train at a London station; and Lieut. G. liiddell,
whose grandfather, James Pearce, was for many
years a member of the S.A. Parliament.
There died at North Adelaide Hospital on Wednes-
day, Mrs. Annie Holt.ze, well known in Port Darwin,
and a daughter-in-law of the ex-Botanic Garden
Holtzes. After her husband’s death, in 1913, she
lived for a time in Adelaide, but afterwards went
back to the Territory as teacher under the Govern-
ment Aborigines Department, which post she held
till her death.
One thousand pounds, invested in 5 per cent, war
loan, has been given to the Walsall Town Council by
that persistent donor E. T. Smith. The interest on the
money is to be used by the Council for Christmas
gifts of clothing, bedding, fuel, etc., to “necessitous
persons over 50 years of age, resident in the borough
of Walsall” (Eng.), Mr. Smith’s native town.
Oliver, one of the Josiah Symon sons who has
chosen the navy as his medium for being unpleasant
to the Hun, has got his lieutenancy.
The idea of a national inter-State highway as an
Anzac memorial is being supported by this State’s
Good Roads Association, and at the next meeting of
that body the matter is to be definitely considered.
Mr. Edwards, Adelaide’s new member in the House
of Assembly, was late for the declaration of the poll
on Monday, being otherwise occupied at the police
court, where a t‘2 fine was entered against him for
“being the licensee of premises out of which a
person was seen proceeding at 11.45 p.m. on April 10.”
However he turned up in time to assure the waiting
electors that it was the one and only time he’d made
the personal acquaintance of the police. life oppo-
nent was a returned Gallipoli man.
Lieut. K. K. Wendt, younger son of the Koeppen
Wendts, who was sent to England to train for his
commission after coming safely through l’ozieres, has
been killed in action. lie rejoined his unit, as a
second-lieutenant only last March.
G. H. Prosser, American Consul in Adelaide for the
last 10 years, and managing-director of Wilkinson
and Co., the provision-dealing firm, has resigned both
posts. He is still a young man, and proposes to give
more time to municipal and political life. He has
worn the rabbit-skin’ for Kensington and Norwood,
and is at present an alderman of the city.
Pretty little pierrette Elsa Langley is
wearing the diamond solitaire of Jack Rox-
burgh, son of the J. W. Roxburgh®, of Laun-
ceston, Tasmania. Elsa Langley is the lady’s
stage-name. She is really Elsa Wilhelmina
Laura Landquest, daughter of the A. G.
Landquests, of Windsor.
The Italians obliged with two concerts
last week, with a full orchestra, which
sawed and rattled willingly until conductor
Gonsalez refused encores to Scamuzzi and
Filippini on the ground that the ladies were
to follow. Miss Gonsalez reached for her
high notes from a sheli-jfink frock. Visioni
wore yellow and black butterflies from her
hair to her toe. De Revers w T as marvel-
lously arrayed in shimmering silver, with
weaths of pink roses. Balboni was refused
an encore at first; but the crowd of devotees
positively howled at the jibbing orchestra
leader until the favorite came back again.
The men were loaded with flowers.
Goll and Verbrugghen have been revelling
in Beethoven’s sojiatas. In the Melba Hall
rapt audiences had their souls ironed and
renovated on Monday, Wednesday and
Friday evenings. Two. and sometimes
three, sonatas are dished each night,
arid no breathing or drinking time is allowed
between courses, if there happens to be more
than one. At the first concert the Ver-
brugghen violin practically drowned the Goll
piano, though Beethoven wrote the works for
piano and violin, not violin and piano. In
the later concerts the harmony was adjusted
to perfection. Musical Melbourne professed
to have enjoyed the feast of its life.
Harrie Ireland, who has had a long spell
of bad health, writes: “It was stated a month
or so back in The Bulletin that I was
getting better under medical treatment.
That’s hardly right —I am being treated by
a metaphysician who has really done wonders
for me.”
“With Palms.” That is the official descrip-
tion of the Order of the Croix de Guerre won
at Mouquet Farm on August 2(j last by Cap-
tain Oscar Anglesey Jones, of the 21st (Vic-
torian) Battalion, since dead. He was 25.
His mother is Mrs. F. Jones r of North Fitz-
roy. He enlisted as private in March, 1915,
and sailed as a corporal in May. At tne
Evacuation he was one of the last to leave
and he was aboard the torpedoed Southland.
His captaincy came to him in France last
December.
Lieutenant Alfred Towers, D.C.M.. M.C.,
who helped to chase De Wet with the Vic-
torian Bushmen’s Contingent, and came home
with three stripes and a crown, went from
W.A. Education Department to take a hand
in this war with the 16th Battalion early in
1916. He won, at Mouquet Farm, three
"mentions,” the congratulations of his
general of division, and the D.C.M. Later
he received a commission and the Military
Cross. He is now at Perham Down's,
England.
Some devoted ex-Geelongese have bought a
large Withers canvas, “The Valley of the
Lower Plenty,” and presented it to the
Geelong Gallery. Mrs. Withers recently
gave an exhibition of her late husband’s
paintings in the town by f’orio Bay.
Marie Tempest has got Melbourne women
babbling about Cossack boots. The actress
made her exit iu bright yellow crinkly
extremity envelopes showing under a very
short grey-brown tweed skirt, a cape and a
high Cossack hat.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—still going strong
Si
m,
rtf*
x
*«
r
4
S'
w
vr
42uv. -
>
&
m
<>
y^ygj
/
4^
V
®»
\
v£
i§° *#•
WSNfx
<* < Laugh and the world laughs with vou,
r* c
« But it you don't drink Jolinnie Walker, you will drink alone.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK. Scotland.


RO
o
The Company’s
Mail Steamers
leave Sydney
every fortnight.
asdf
TR IPS TO TH E
SPECIAL, HOLIDAY RETURN TICKETS TO CEYLON are now issued at the followin
rates :■
From SYDNEY
From MELBOURNE
From ADELAIDE
From FREMANTLE
Ist £!6, 2nd £32
Ist £l2, 2nd £3O
Ist £3B, 2nd £2B
Ist £32, 2nd £26
AVAILABLE FOR
SIX MONTHS.
For those who have longer time at their disposal some delightful tours can be arranged. For
example, Sydney to Colombo via Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle, thence to Singapore by P. & 0.,
and return to Sydney via Torres Straits, by Burns, Philp or Royal Packet Company,. calling at Java.
Darwin, Jhursday Tsland, Brisbane, etc. Fare, Ist Saloon, £B2. For further particulars apply
MACDONALD, TTAMTLTON & CO., Agents, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 6321.
f.
asd
TheTOPNOTCHScotch
w
SayWHEH Man!!
'-■s'A',
K
!
ME
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Wal”: The experience of “Reefer”
with the unfriendly crocodile at Lakekamu
River reminds me of a similar happening at
Kerepunu (Papua). The recruiting vessel Daisy was
anchored off Kerepunu village one morning, the sea
roaring on the outside reef, the lagoon, where they
were anchored, smooth as glass, mirroring- the grass-
clad hills and palm-fringed beach. The tide was at
the turn, the mud flats in front of the village
being diligently explored by a drove of long-snouted
pariah pigs. A group of naked brown-skinned
urchins rolled and tumbled in perfect happiness in
the warm pools of water near the beach. The dinghy
of the Daisy was being rowed ashore, the Chilian
cook and a Kiwai “boy” sitting on the gunwale
aft. Suddenly a black, wicked-looking head arose
beside the stern of the dinghy, the mouth opened,
and the saw-like teeth closed in a vyce-grip on (lie
Chilian and dragged him overboard and to the mud
bottom. The tragedy was so sudden that the skipper
had not even time to lift his rifle. On another
occasion a croc, tried to climb aboard the Govern-
ment ketch Lokohu, but was settled with a .303
befoie it got much above the bobstay, though the
ciew weie almost terrified out of their lives by the
visit. Many natives have been taken off canoes by
the brutes and pigs galore are lost from the
village by the same, cause. On one day I saw a
paddle snapped out of the hand of a “boy” who
was coming off to the vessel to trade fish, and the
same afternoon had the pleasure of potting a 10ft.
6in. reptile that took it into its head to have a bask
on the mud close by.
The Wellington (M.L.) Zoo at present
has a quartette that have done and seen things: a
tooth-billed pigeon that was. captured after a pre-
liminary bombardment when Samoa was seized;
Osman, the leader of Captain Scott's sledge teams ;
Oscar, the wonder dog who saved the lives of
several members of Shackleton’s expedition; and an
Abyssinian monkey, a M.L. regimental mascot who
went from Egypt to France, was under shellfire at
Armentieres and nearly lost his mess number at the
Somme.
“H.V.E.”: The aristocrat in point of
beauty of coloring among parrot-fish is the member
of the tribe known as pig-fish from its thick, fleshy
lips and somewhat-elongated snout. It is a harmony
in scarlet, brown, pink, orange and pale blue; and
in one variety, at any rate, there is a large rounded
spot on either side o.f intense purple-blue. I have
found young pig-fish three or four inches in length
swimming in rock-pools in company with baby
rainbow fish in purple, yellow and pink bands. The
pig-fish is taken occasionally on rocky grounds on
the X. S. Wales coast in fairly deep water, but
doesn’t come into the market in quantity.
* * * *
“Merrigal”: Champion Bay. Swan River
district (W.A.), harbors a centipede that ordinarily
measures 13 or 14 inches and occasionally stretches to
17. He flashes a copper-tinged coat on the plains where
the herbage has got short and scant, and when sud-
denly come upon buckles his tailboard to his head
and with a succession of rapid leaps makes things
lively for the disturber of his peace. Due to this
accomplishment and his hang-dog-like jowl, bushmen
generally are satisfied with a nodding acquaintance,
and that old reptilian expert Davenport Cleland,
though he’d handled most of the Westralian forest
denizens, wouldn’t touch him with a roping-pole.
“Arden Hill” : The popular misconception
that in the realm of pyrotechnic diction the bullock-
driver holds the belt, is due to the fact that coal-
mine wheelers work underground out of earshot of
connoisseurs. A gaudily-decorated arid highly-explo-
sive vocabulary is as indispensable in the equipment
of a wheeler as his safety-lamp and sprag. Without
it the output would dwindle, ' coal stocks would
quickly become depleted, and eventually the Govern-
ment would be compelled to prospect for oil wells
or some new source of energy to keep the wheels of
industry from rusting. Nothing can equal the terrific
verbal onslaught of a wheeler when a full skip gets
A DASH OF BITTERS.
SWAGGY : “Hullo, boss. D'ye keep the pub at Railville now?"
BUNG : “Yes; but before six o'clock closing it kept me."
off the road. Ornamental imprecation may reach a
high standard on the dusty, wide plains, or amid
the carnage of battle, but it’s poor stuff compared
with the mighty Yolapuk of the pit. This rolls on
the air current and sweeps around the brattices like
the breath of Beelzebub; it illuminates the darkness
of the tortuous tunnellings like forked lightning; it
ricochets over undercasts and under overcasts; it
is majestic, brilliant, . stimulating and a national
asset. Long may it reign.
A MIRACLE.
BOY : "Please, sir, can I act away early to-day?"
BOSS: “What’s the matter? Grandmother dead again?"
BOY : "No, sir. Please, sir, father's go-in' ter give me a noo one to-day."
“Bill R." : Those Abus, who periodically
--kite about, big shearing tallies should mention
something about the class of sheep operated upon. I
have been at the game, off and on, since ’B3, and
have tomahawked alongside many of the guns of that
period. Their records were invariably made when
shearing clean-legged sheep, among which were many
bare-bellies and rosellas with only a few chops of
wool along the back. Good scores are likewise
possible among the open-woolled crossbred jum-
bucks, but every big gun kicks back many notches
when he strikes the wrinkled real merino of the stud
stations. The best performance I ever saw put up
was at Bibbenluke, Monaro (N.S.W.), in 1.908, when
Volney Day, a Bungendore crack, peeled 227, 243
and 217 in three successive days—the knock-off bell
ringing- at 4 o’clock on the third day. That was
among woollies admittedly as heavy to shear as any-
thing in the Commonwealth.
“Hay”: In ISS9 a wave of mice just like
the one described by “dial” (B. 26/4/’l7) swept
over Red Hill (S. Aus.), where I was
wheat-farming. I don’t know where they
came from, but swarms of mice appeared suddenly
and invaded all buildings. Tt was at the end of an
exceptionally good summer. In houses and barns
everything that a mouse could gnaw had to be kept
in very close cases or tins. We even had to nail
the harness belonging to the teams in zinc-lined
cases, for the first night the plague arrived they ate
through the linings and tore the straw-stuffing out of
a new set of collars. When the frantic little brutes
got busy at night it was impossible to sleep, for they
over-ran the place in squeaking swarms, attacking
and devouring each other. The cats were afraid of
them, and declined to try to cope with such an
abnormal rush of business. Towards winter the
unpleasant visitation abated, and the rodents van-
ished as suddenly as they came.
“The Old Soldier” : The venison that came
to Perth the other day (B. 19/4/’I7I is another
helping of the importing folly. The red deer is a
very dangerous animal in any settled country where
he is allowed to run at large. The full-grown stags
can easily leap a fence more than seven feet high,
so that no paddocks are safe from them. If a man
tries to drive a trespassing male beast out of the
crop before it has eaten its fill he will certainly
be attacked with the Tore hooves, which are ex-
tremely sharp and will give dangerous wounds. The
stag has a good memory for a cultivation plot
where he has once had a good feed, and when he
returns generally brings his whole seraglio.
* * ■* *.
“Agricola”: “Daybreak” (B. 26/4/T7)
seems surprised about finding a maiden heifer giving-
milk. I saw a well-bred Jersey calf, eight months
old, giving up juice in 1911 on the Mitta (Vic.).
In 1913, at Camperdown (Vic.), W. Kerr owned a
Jersey calf which commenced to milk when six
months old, and at nine months the Agricultural
chemist tested her product. She gave 51b. a day,
6 per cent, butter fat. Her family tree sheltered
champion butter cattle on both sides. Artificial
selection for many generations is no doubt the main
reason, and sucking by other calves is the immediate
exciting cause.
“F.0.C.”: The account had just come
into camp from the store and-Bill was checking it
over. Suddenly he exploded: “Gorstruth! Axe-
handles two bob each now ! This war takes the
bun! ”
“Good Australian”: The United States
Agricultural Department has an immigration depart-
ment for plants and trees, none of which are allowed
into the country until they have been proved free
from disease and desirable additions to the coun-
try’s plant kingdom. St. John’s wort and the
Scotch thistle would never have got into Australia
if we had possessed a plant-immigration depot. The
Americans have introduced some valuable plants of
late years, such as the jujube, a very good, fresh
fruit from China, which might do well in the Vic-
torian Mallee or north in South Australia. The
Chinese pistache nut has also been acclimatised
because it has a variety of uses. The pistache ought
to do .splendidly in the Goulburn Valley (Vib.).
Then there are Chinese chestnuts and persimmons,
both regarded as staple foods. They both grow well
wherever the thermometer does not drop under zero.
Then there is the chayote, a pear-shaped fruit from
tropical America, somewhat resembling a vegetable-
NOT GUILTY.
SHE: “I suppose you say that to some girl
in every port you. call at."
HE: “No, on me oath. Why, we've been in
lots of ports where I didn't know a word
of the language."
marrow. A new salad plant called the ndo, from
Japan, is highly recommended, though that doesn't
matter very much, as we Australians do not grow
any really good salad plants like thp Europeans and
Americans.
(Continued on page 24.)
THIRST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dhurra bags were innocent of grain ;
Our fantasses were empty, dry and hot;
The land had never felt a drop of rain
Since Moses’ host had trod the dreary spot.
The camels grunted, sore-backed as they stood,
Their sweat-glands dripping sweat as red as blood.
Steep, scorching sandhills stayed our blistered feet;
The sun with cruel intent crouched down from high.
Held in a dome steel-grey and hard with heat,
And focussed all his rays on old Sinai,
The riders with cracked lips and blistered faces
Cursed, and grinned, and prayed for an oasis.
The dancing mirage mocks their eager quest,
While phantom lakes above the salt sands hover.
Their burning thirst they conquer with a jest,
And wonder when the blanky war’ll be over.
Says Bill and Jim, and laugh together—
“l pity blokes out Hack o’ Bourke this weather."
SINAI.
TROOPER BLUEGUM.


Golf or Tunic
SHIRT
4|6
T 5
m
r
Made of good-quality Cam-
bric, in new blue or black
stripe designs. Sizes 14 to
17% neck. Price... 4/0
ORIENT”
CLo
mm
%
&
Jor^Si
Ceylonette
PYJAMAS
7(6
Made of Ceylonette in bold
sti’ipe designs. Colors:
blue, pink, grey or helio.
Sizes 34 to 44 inches chest.
We Pay Carriage.
David Jones Ltd.
OPP. G.P.O. —— SYDN EY.
“ TAFFATWILL'
Split-Sleeve
SHIRTS.
Made in the Leviathan Work-
rooms from the famous “Taf-
fatwill” —a Shirting which has
all the appearance of the most
beautiful Taffeta. In rich
Cream Grounds, with many
smart striped effects in all the
most popular shades. Made in ;J
styles of Cuffs—SOFT DOUBLE,
STIFF, or SOFT
BAN DS, wit li
button and link
holes. Will give
the utmost wear-
ing satisfaction.
5/11
(3 for 17/3.)
of materia!
i
1E
1r
r*
7r
Split sleeve
S/Pt! K
lifts
'Notice the
Set of cuff
fas
‘‘Taffatwill” Shirts are made with these special features:
J. “SPLIT” SLKKVES. —The sleeve opening: is not at
the seam, as in ordinary styles, but “split” at a point
opposite the seam of COAT, making the cuffs set correctly
and comfortably ALWAYS. (See illustration above.)
2. SLEEVE “LIFTS'.”—To regulate the “just right”
sleeve length—keeping the cuffs clean and from wear when
. not in use. (See illustration above.)
3. REINFORCED INLAY FRONTS.—An inlay of material
placed where the neckband joins body of shirt, gives
DOUBLE WEAR to the most vital part of the garment.
Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets or Underpants. —
Best English make. Can bo had in MEDIUM or
HEAVY WINTER WEIGHTS. Contain sufficient
cotton to increase wearing strength and
prevent shrinkage. Soft, warm, cosy,
garments that will give excellent wear.
Singlets, with Long or Short Sleeves.
Men’s sizes
76
Outsize, 8/6; Extra Outsize, 10/- each, per garment.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Ask for New 40-
Page Catalog.
•3N>mom:*w
NVHIVIA3I m
fee*
ii
/
■
m
M
■
>
Welding 18in. diameter Steel Gas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
V. by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds,
s 1 I
WDIMIVO
NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS.
COG WHEELS, etc.
r.i ,r n iy r oft 1 TH Kl/ VPKKT To-day is the day of the expert—the man who knows every detail Oi his work
T whs is thorough effldait and up to date. Th e y engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
conversant wfth every enginecring method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
THE ENGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxy-Acetylene process is not abreast of the times; he is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence.
Thrnno-hont the world to-dav the Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest scientific addition to every engineering
workshop & which fitted with process, 'has an advantage over the opposition impossible to estimate. It is simpje.
wor l tviflimr. and the plant is portable. Whether the broken parts require to be cut
vet wonderfully effective; its price is trifling, and the plant is portable,
or welded at the bench or by the roadside is of no consequence.
Any work of Iron or Steel welding or cutting can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It is revolutionising
W the Engineering trade. Broken parts that once were useless can now be successfully welded and made new
~ again. This, too, in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
of pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process will make new again:—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes,
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Keyways in Shafts.
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published by Charles Griffin & Co., London, states.
“Within the last few years welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-aeetylene blow-
pipes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Alt puts MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street
b BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex' Ingrain & Co., AVyatt Street.
BERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
■
■
..
wssmst
I
;
■
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Acetylene Works, Flinders Street,
Adelaide.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
MEGGITTS
UNSEED OllMfi\l
*Ac
/AEG
PAR
Ifcsb
A
>3
u
MTVW
S
’ll
w w
an
P
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
Pigs, calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One'
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. H. McD. Livingstone,
Eosehill Farm, Ivingaroy, at the 1916 show won
seven first prizes with a pen of calves and won the
three butter-Tat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-
oil meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.,
V
I*
Linseed Oil and Oil Weal Manufacturers, Parramatta, N. S. Wales.
“Eddyson”: This explains the, to many
residents of Pigskin, mysterious disappearance of
Henry Searle, of Searle’s Swamp. Searle’s Swamp was,
and is still, I have no doubt, a dreary sweep of
shallow dampness in the flat and barren lands
between Pigskin and Idono, Vic. The country pro-
duces a few reeds and some prodigious bulrushes, and
here and there a contorted and almost leafless gum
that looks like a frantic skeleton escaped from the
crypt in its rags, and crying “Fire!” and, at the time
of which I write, upheld a solitary paling hut with
a rusted iron chimney and two single-paned win-
dows, over one of which was clapped a bark patch.
Here dwelt Henry Searle, hatter, Henry Searle’s
iron-grey, bloated, toothless and bumble-footed cattle-
dog Sam, and Searle’s hook-nosed, Hebraic and
almost-featherless cockatoo “Methusalem,” a vener-
able bird that had almost lost his voice, but con-
tinued to soliloquise in whispers the whole day
long. Searle had no legal claim to Searle’s Swamp,
but it was his fixed conviction that the land and
the waters thereon were wholly his own, that he
held exclusive riparian fishing, shooting, boating
and bathing rights by .virtue of his long residence
SPARING THEIR BLUSHES.
No. 1: “Brother, the sea is glorious; sup-
pose we peel off and take a dip?”
No. 2: “Hush, brother; let us not be weal;
there are females about.”
on the swamp. Searlc’s hut on closer inspection
was found to be a kind of Noah's Ark built on two
large punts laboriously fashioned from hollow logs,
and tethered to a writhing stringy-bark butt with
a bullock-chain. This was provision against the
frequent spreading of the swamp in the rainy
season. “It was either float or flood,” Searle ex-
pained, “ ’n’ iv course I perferred t’ float.” There
was, however, the option of shifting to higher,
healthier and more accessible localities, but when
this was mentioned to Searle he cried: “What, ’n'
leave me swamp? Not me. Me swamp’s all I got,
’n’ I’ll stick to it.” Henry’s great grievance in
life was against unchartered duck-shooters or eel-
fishers who had the audacity to use his
swamp. He readily granted permission to
sportsmen to shoot over his waters if they, asked
him, but the sound of a shot fired by an audacious
scoundrel who had not received the formal permit
of the proprietor brought Searle bounding out of his
hut, and sent him racing round the lake, a large
club in his right hand and vengeance in his heart.
The fires of unlicensed eel-fishers had the same effect,
sending Searle scooting through the night round the
great waste of water in his shirt, inflamed with a
kind of fury. Often the hatter’s charge involved a
run of many miles, but in those cases he took a
bag and a billy with him, and for- hours the pursued
might behold the mad little man scooting round the
edge of the swamp, possibly camping for refresh-
ments by the way, but always taking up the chase
again. As Searle grew older his pride of possession
waxed greater, and his determination to assert ruler’s
rights over Searle’s Swamp became a very aggressive
kind of madness. One morning when the swamp
was at its widest, and Searle’s hut was well afloat,
Henry was brought to his door by the sound of
distant shooting. The insolent poaching miscreants
were at the far end of the swamp, peppering Searle’s
teal on Searle’s waters, and presently they saw the
little man Evading ashore at his eqd. He had a
gun in his hand. For hours after they beheld Searle
chasing round the northern limits of liis swamp. He
camped for lunch and boiled his billy, then resumed
the pursuit with the fatuous zeal of a mad ant. The
pursued moved east along the south shore, Searle
was running west along the north shore. Mean-
while for hours the shooting continued. It was after
4 p.m., and Searle was within a quarter of a mile
of the violators of his sacred rights, when the latter
dumped their ducks into a trap they had in waiting,
gave Henry an ironical cheer, and drove off. Thir-
teen days later a dusty, bedraggled, travel-worn,
little, whiskered old man, carrying a gun, plunged
into the house of a total stranger at Prahran, Mel-
bourne, and behaved in so amazing and menacing a
manner that he was instantly overpowered and
handed over to the police. The house was the home
of one of the men who had been duck-shooting on
Searle’s Swamp, 109 miles away, nearly a fortnight
previous. The little old man with the gun was
Henry Searle, still in pursuit. Authority found
Searle of Searle’s Swamp a rest-house at Kew. It
being beyond question essential to the public weal
that he should reside there permanently, the people
of Pigskin saw no more of Searle of Searle’s Swamp.
“Te Wliare”: Re the statement by Gregory
Mathews that, since foxes have become numerous in
Australia, the lyre-bird has to a large extent left off
building its great stick-nest on the ground among
ferns, etc., instead of placing it. on the top of tall
stumps and other elevated positions for protection.
Long before the advent of brer fox I commonly
found the nest of this imitative but not over-brainy
fowl high up on the ledges of cliffs (a very favorite
site), on tall tree-ferns, canopies of wild vine, etc.
It still nests, however, in many instances —sometimes
right out in open forest —-on logs, etc., very near or
on the ground. One foolish bird built on top of a
low stump in open country within 20 yards of a
main road. Foxes often annex the single chocolate-
brown and grey egg, or the noisy chick, which has
a ringing dinner-call which may be heard over half
a mile away. By-the-way, on top of the arch at the
entrance to Yarrangobilli Caves a lyre-bird builds
almost every year. It hops down sometimes and has
4 o’clock tea with the tourists. I’ve seen specimen
plates, etc., of Mathew’s great book on Australian
birds. It is a magnificent record of our feathered
population, and in manner of production over-
shadows Gould’s wonderful work. But in Gould’s
time (the early ’4o’s) Australia was more or less
terra incognita, and the difficulties which lay in his
path were enormous. Gould’s only assistant, Gil-
bert, was speared to death by the blacks in W.A.
Incidentally, Gould still stands alone among the
world's birdologists.
* * #■ *
The mice which are making life a burden
in the wheat-farming country north of Adelaide are
said to be developing a rapidly-fatal disease. Edgar
Waite, of the Museum, diagnoses it as ringworm, and
thinks it will effectively wipe out the pest, but he
warns the public that children may catch the disease
from the mouse per agency of the cat. The Vaughan
Government has offered £2OO to any executioner
who can properly deal with the vermin.
“P.W.” : Re the introduction of rabbits
into Victoria. W. A. Brodribb in his “Leaves from
my Journal since 1835,” reports that with seven
others en route to Corner Inlet he got stranded on
a. sandbank. Some of the party rowed to Rabbit
Island, where they had fine sport shooting bunnies.
It appears that the captain of a whaler had turned
a pair loose, and they soon increased and overran the
limited room. Brodribb met them in 1842.
A BLOKE’S PHILOSOPHY.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
There’s a time of life when the world seems glad;
There’s a time of life when the world is sad;
There’s a time of life when we bend our back
And stagger along on the downward track.
There's a spell, of course, when the blood runs slow,
Like the sluggish ooze of the melting snow;
When you look on the past as one in a dream,
And hours run past as a joyous stream.
There's a day for all when we start the race
With a smile and a laugh at the headlong pace.
There's another day when the prize is dross,
And the soul is dulled ’neath the Swagman’s Cross.
There’s a time o’ year when your nerves will hum
Through rain and racket and Hell’s red rum.
And there's a date when the man with a handy spade
Will tuck you away in your bed well made.
MAOim.AXn. PUKETAPU.
“Hay”: “H.Y.E.” (B. 26/4/17) describes
a flying marsupial niouse. I have seen a variety that
must be of quite a different species. The biggest
family of them I ever struck were playing in a
cane grass flat towards, the south end of the Barrier
flange just inside the N. S. Wales border. The only
other lot 1 ever happened on was not far from Lake
Frome, so I don’t think they can be very plentiful.
These pretty little creatures do not fly or float like
the ’possum mouse, but hop exactly like a kangaroo.
In fact, they are miniature ’roos, except that their
little tails are held erect and ornamented with a tiny
tuft or brush of fur.
* * * »
“Ela” : Ou falling cocoanuts, the remarks
of “To Babarantiko” are absolutely correct.
Many natives receive the nuts on their heads,
but little or no damage results, as a rule,
Brown Brother having a head that would enable
him to weather a fair at Donnybrook. Occasionally
a child is killed, or a dog. Once I witnessed a nut lay
out a missionary on the coast of Papua. The scholars
from the sin-chaser’s factory were enjoying a picnic,
the reverend gentleman attending the orgie to see
that the girls did not throw too many friendly looks
at the young bucks. At sunset he gathered around
him the party, and before wading into the roast pig;
baked yams, turtle steaks and other foods, he led
them in a little hymn, and then proceeded to chant
a grace. He had got through when a nut dropped
and laid him out. It was the most wonderful coinci-
dence I ever saw. He received a mild concussion
that kept him in bed for over a week. Near shaves
are very common, and all the whites have their
yarns to spin of death missed by a few inches. The
bombs fall most frequently at night, consequently few
people are hurt.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
PIOUS ONE: “Drunk again, John! Can I help you?"
BEERY ONE: “Lor’ bless yer, sir, there's only 'arf a nip left.”
“H.V.E.”: Excepting the house or wel-
come swallow, wild birds seldom enter rooms
through open windows, either in search of flies, etc.,
or by chance; but I have snared a scissors-grinder
(restless flycatcher) and a cobbler’s-awl bird (spine-
billed honeysucker) this way. The latter in its
flutterings became enmeshed in strong spider’s web
WILLING TO OBLIGE.
BENEVOLENT LADY : “Here, my poor man, is
a penny. I can't afford much, I'm
almost as poor as you are.”
DIRTY DAN : “Hard luck, Missus. I
wouldn’t mind swappin ’ socks with
you, anyway.”
built in the corner of the room, and eventually
dropped into a basin of water. A boobook owl,
attracted by the light, was another visitor. Prowl-
ing cats sometimes bring in night-birds which sweep
low over the ground in hawking moths and other
insects, such as the spotted night-jar (a rare bird),
the common (or white-throated) night-jar, and the
uncommon owlet-nightjar, a bird of the frogmouth
family—sometimes known as “little morepork.” The
swallow, of course, often dashes in and out again, in
search of a site for its mud-bowl nest. Another
species—the striped diamond bird (Pardalotu afjinis )
—sometimes nests under the roofs or houses,
sparrow-fashion, while the domestic hen ( G alius
domesticus ) sometimes invades the sanctity of the
bedroom, and, after preliminary' heraldry, deposits
her egg in the centre of the counterpane. The wag-
tail (black-and-white fantail) nests occasionally on
the beams and rafters of barns and outhouses, thus
providing a restaurant for bush rats or cats.
* * * *
“Ivukukuku”: When you have sapi-sapi
shell in Papua you lock it up in a strong-room and
wire the windows. At present prices it is worth
£2O a sack. The slieli is two or three or four
inches long and broad, rough and dirty-looking, with
an oysterish aspect; has a white inside with a small
rim of scarlet. This is the material for the famous
red-shell money of Papua, which even the most
civilised Papuan prefers to coin. It is ground into
coins the size of threepences and sixpences, and sells
at threepence and sixpence apiece. A hole in the
middle allows of stringing. Belts, necklaces, ear-
rings and armlets made of sapi-sapi are to be seen
in every store that caters for native trade; the prices
run to seven or eight pounds of a boy’s hard-earned
wages, and they are very readily paid—except by
stray tourists from the steamers, who wander about
Samarai, pick up a red-shell money-belt, and Care-
lessly offer half a crown for it. When the real price
is mentioned they have a fit and go back to the
steamer. The very latest coinage in Papua is
quinine—especially since the rise - in prices.
A quinine tabloid will buy so much betel-nut, so
much yam or taro, so much green cocoanuts, accord-
ing to the district where it is taken. The best dis-
tricts are those far, but not too far, out. Near the
settlements plenty of quinine can be got; away out,
the gentle cannibal takes it for something to do
with sorcery. The semi-civilised “boy” who has
learned the effect of that small white circle on his
chills and sweats and pains will give astonishing
value for it.
“Wart”: I’ll back the swamp quail to
apply for the baby bonus more often than any other
Australian bird. On two occasions I have found
nests containing 13 eggs. The mountain duck, the
black duck and the teal often lay up to a dozen,
while the widgeon is sometimes credited with a
baker’s dozen. Several birds common to the main-
land and the Speck lay one to two more eggs on the
island than their mainland relations. The swift
lorikeet, for instance: on the mainland a clutch
consists of two to three eggs—in Tasmania three to
five. Has it struck any other observer that the
birds which rear the largest families are not the
most plentiful ? No land bird can approach in num-
bers the gulls, petrels and terns, who lay only one,
or at the most two eggs.


Hundreds of Tons of Rubber Goods
Made and Sold Weekly.
& jfc # #
DUNLOP
is a household word in Australia, and is synonomous with the best
in Motor and Cycle Tyres. It is more than that to-day—it is the
brand that carries with it Satisfactory Service into thousands of
Australian manufacturing plants —into all the leading mines —on the
Commonwealth Railways —and hundreds of thousands of Australian
homes. It’s a name and brand that has won the confidence of the
Australian public by sheer superiority of Quality, Service and Straight
Dealing. The object of this Advertisement is to BRING HOME TO
YOU the fact that our Australian Mills —employing 1,600 hands —do
more than manufacture tyres. They turn out weekly hundreds of
tons of Rubber Goods of every description. We enumerate a few of
our leading lines, so that when ordering Rubber Goods you can by
specifying “Dunlop” make, be sure of obtaining the satisfactory and
economical Service that this well-known Australian brand carries with
it. In addition to Motor and Cycle Tyres our output comprises
Mining and Engineering Rubber Goods, Rubber
Belting (Conveyor & Driving), Solid Rubber Vehicle
Tyres, Perambulator Tyres, Rubber Heels, Mats &
Matting, Hot Water Bags, Waterproof Garments &
Rugs, Tennis Balls, Golf & Lacrosse Balls, Football
Bladders, Handle Grips, Wringer Rollers, Milking
Machine Requisites, Hose Garden, Suction,
Brewers, etc. Medical and Dental Goods, etc.
They cost you no more than imported goods, the difference is in the
service they give—and at a reasonable cost. See that goods purchased
bear our brand, it’s your guarantee of satisfaction and a further
guarantee that your money stays in this country —to your direct benefit.
VARIOUS LISTS ON APPLICATION
DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Launceston, Wellington and Christchurch.
\ \
Or
. -
utiiff
itiiiiu
o
mmm
0
ZyysU*
vy//Z'&jL
Dunlop R Largest in Southern Hemisphere -Area 5V4-
acres.


Another Triumph
for Wonderful
De Witts puis
When the old is made young' ag'ain and the
weak is made strong that is indeed a triumph.
When a man is so long 1 and so seriously ill that he, his fiiends
and his doctors all give up hope of him ever getting- well again,
and then he is, after all, completely cured, it may easily and
truly be described as remarkable —a great triumph.
“I am over 60 years of age, and for over 40 years suffered
with what I was told was chronic Bright’s Disease. While in the
early days I was able to do a little work, now for the last 20
years I have not been able to work, except at very distant intervals,
and then not more than two or three days at a time; in fact, 1
have had to keep my bed for four or five months at a stretch.
“I have had many illnesses, each in itself very serious. Once
I was so bad that I was given only five hours to live by m.V'
medical man, but just pulled through more dead than alive. I
was so bad that even after I was supposed to have recovered my
friends tried to get me into a hospital, but I was refused admit-
tance as ‘lncurable.’ • ,
“Last March I was taken very seriously ill, this time with
rheumatic fever. Here now, it was thought, was truly the end of
things: there was little hope ever entertained of my recovering. I
was rapidly and surely dying.
“While I was so ill my son-in-law, hearing such remarkable
reports about the cures effected by De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, bought a box for me to try. I commenced to take them,
and. to put it very mildly, was amazed to find in two days’ time
that all symptoms of fever had left me. In a week from first
commencing the pills I was able to get up, and I gradually got
stronger. It was not very long before I was able to resume work,
and since I once started I have not lost a single day from work.
Surely this is wonderful after my past experience of years of
unfitness.
“I am getting to be an old man, therefore I consider this case
most remarkable. My name. Arthur Jarvis, is well known in the
district of Battersea, and if anyone should doubt the truth of my
statement and should write or call on me at 32 Frances Street.
S.W., I will give them convincing proof of the truth of my
statement. De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have given me
a strength that I can truthfully say I have never before
experienced at any time of life.
“They have given me a real pleasure in ljfe, such as I have
not experienced for 40 years.”
The above statement was made in July. 1912. It might well
be wondered whether such a cure could remain permanent. Two
years afterwards Mr. Jarvis said: “Although getting on in years
—I am now (jo years of age—l am going along wonderfully well.
I have boon able to keep going all the year round, and have not
missed a single day from work. I have only got De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills to thank for this marvellous cure, and I
SM
S w j
%
'M
\
MR. A. JARVIS (from photo).
Forty Years a Hopeless
Invalid.
Now Never Misses a Day
from Work.
strongly recommend them to all those I come in contact with who
are suffering in any way with the kidneys or bladder, because I
feel that these wonderful little pills cannot become too well known.”
Nearly everyone knows that thousands of people die every year
from deadly kidney disease, but only a few are aware that this
terrible mortality is the result of sheer neglect.
When people are attacked by the first symptoms of kidney
disease, such as aches and pains in the various parts of the body,
puffiness under the eyes, cloudy urine, nasty taste in the mouth
first thing in the morning, they take no notice whatever. This is
where a terrible mistake is made, for kidney disease will not cure
itself. Neglect means that these symptoms turn into specific com-
plaints such as rheumatism, lumbago, gout, sciatica, cystitis, gravel,
stone, etc., which are the forerunners of deadly Bright’s Disease.
Just a little exposure to cold or damp and you have got a
pain in the back. Agony to bend or move any way, bad headache,
puffiness under the eyes; these mean for certain that you have
kidney trouble. Then you should look out for deadly Bright’s
Disease, which creeps on unawares.
It is positively dangerous to, trifle or play with the most
simple form of kidney disease.
If you have such symptoms as a nasty taste in the mouth first
thing in the morning, constipation, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, aches and pains in the muscles or joints, puffiness
under the- eyes or bad headache, you certainly need De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
Or if you suffer from lumbago, backache, rheumatism, gout,
sciatica, stone, gravel, or pains in the bladder, muscles and joints,
you are foolish to yourself if you do not commence to use these
wonder-workers immediately.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of kidney trouble you
must positively get rid of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember, to do this a real remedy must pass through the
kidneys and the bladder, and not through the bowels, as most
kidney pills do. When you see the urine change to a muddy bluish
color —a feature which distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all doubt they have put
their healing touch on the right spot—the kidneys and the bladder.
A wonderful pill straight to the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s
Pills give such amazingly quick relief —every time. A permanent
cure follows in almost every case. Look out for that blue-colored
urine. It means so much.
Many remedies claim to cure, and do without doubt give
relief for a time, but the one remedy which will give you quick
relief, and most probably a permanent cure, is Do Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, for when once mired by these wonderful little
pills, our readers say they are cured for ever, just as Mr. Jarvis
was. . ■
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold by Chemists and Storekeepers everywhere, 2/0 and 5/6 per box. Large size contains, two-and-a-lialf times as
size—most advantageous. TRIAL BOX FREE and plainly packed if you send 3d. stamps for postage, etc. Tf you have any difficulty in getting genuine
with the blue seal on the cork —send your money to E. C. De Witt & Co., Ltd.. 41-42 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladly supply by return.
many as the 2/9
De Witt’s Pills—
Somerset Maugham, who has written a
couple of Marie Tempest plays, recently
staged -Caroline," a new comedy, in New
York, written by him while engaged as a
British agent in Switzerland, where he
was under close surveillance of the police
and the German secret-service men. He
made Caroline a comedy in order to relieve
his anxiety, and adds —looking towards his
press agent —“There were times when I had
to hurry the work because I feared I would
be arrested before I could complete it. In-
deed, during the whole time I was writing I
could see a German agent watching me from,
out in the snow.” German agents must
catch cold on some useless jobs.
A queer thing happened after Barry
Lupino had come his awful cropper on the
stage at Melbourne King’s the other Satur-
day. The curtain was rung down, and the
band was playing “Gorsave,” when one of
the Taits asked the prostrate man whether
he thought he could stand up to take a
“call,” and so reassure the audience that he
was not knocked right out. It afterwards
appeared that Lupino was really insensible
at the time, but the magic word “call” must
have reached his brain. He did stand up,
and with his hand at the back of his head
he went through the form of bowing. When
he recovered his senses and was told of liis
action he had not the slightest recollection
of it, nor of having uttered words of pain
as,he lay on the stage.
“Private Boxer” : On her return from the
States Melba announced that she and Charlie
Chaplin had “done an impromptu film,”
which will presently be shown in the cause
of charity, to benefit the boys in khaki. The
songster incidentally mentioned that Chaplin
was a very charming man, also a very good-
looking fellow, who wants to do serious
work —but the picture-managers won’t let
him.
“Peg-Leg” : Apparently it wasn't an easy
job teaching Enid Bennett to be a movie
star. Her director, Tom Ince, states that
60,000 ft. of film were taken to complete the
first two dramas which totalled only 10,000 ft.
when eventually screened. The remaining
50,000, taken for experimental scenes, were
scrapped. That is where the fault lies in
most of our local productions. Every foot of
film taken is put into the completed picture
regardless of quality of photography, acting
or anything else ; and a film that might have
been worth while if the producers had con-
densed it to two good reels, is padded out to
five with the rubbish. Unfortunately the
men who pay the money don’t look at it that
v»ay. I have seen four Australian film mag-
nates become delirious with rage because
their producer had used 500 ft. in experi-
mental work.
“0.K.” : The motor-car, like the telephone,
came as a special boon to melodramatists.
For sudden-death purposes it serves better
than any other vehicle you can mention.
J. M. Barrie uses it in the tabloid tragedy
that Ada Reeve is playing at Melbourne
Tivoli. He .wants his heroine to be sud-
denly left in a terrible fix at the rooms of
the lover she is about to elope with. The
dramatist might, of course, have made the
mail die of heart disease, like the awful]'
embarrassing lover.in one of De Maupassant s
stories. But this would have been highly
improbable in the case of a vigorous young
mail. So he rushes gaily forth to get a taxi,
and is stated to be killed by a passing car.
How much better than making him tall a
victim to a cab or tramcar. The accident
seems more “classy"’ and less unlikely.
“Minim”: Writing to a Melbourne friend
John McCormack announces that he just
loves the people of the U.S.A., and has
become an Amurkan citizen. Also, lie re-
marks parenthetically : “Someone has accused
me of being a pro-German. Heaven forbid .
What a wonderful fight the Allies have put
up on the Somme. We must be <>n our way
to victory and Berlin shortly. fho lettei
was written before the States declared war.
There is therefore a reasonable chance of the
patriotic tenor fighting for the flag lie ha>
just taken to his bosom. W e may >et hear
of the Faust of other days leading the
“Soldiers’ Chorus” in the land where the
grand old air was originally inspired!
“Ancient Prompter"’: A London revue
chorus-girl (Pat Peel on the bills) in the
early days of the war, sang and danced In 1
self into the affections of a young lieutenant
in tin- “Gay Gordons.” Just before going
to the Front the soldier made a will in the
girl’s favor, scribbling it on the form pro-
vided in his army pay-book. The document
was duly witnessed by a brother ofncei.
Last year both officers were killed in France.
The will could not be found, and in its
absence the Probate Court was asked to
pronounce in favor of the revue lady, which
it did. The 305.-a-week chorus girl is now
the possessor of a little fortune of some-
thing over £15,000.
“S.T.S.” inspects an old friend's new suit:
1 have just got the acting-edition of “Experi-
ence,” G. V. Hobart’s play now having a long-
run in nearly every big U.S.A. city. It calls itself
a “Morality Play of To-day,” and follows what is
doubtless the right line for such things—only the
most obvious sentiments, but shown with details that
are unexpected. Love is left on the old farm, villi
Hope as her sole companion; Youth goes out into
the world, led by Ambition, who dies, however,
when Beauty and Pleasure are met. All the while
Experience is of the party, pleasant, shrewd, middle-
aged—a regular actor-manager’s part, lie does not
shy at anything, but introduces Youth to all and
sundry, and draws a moral when a moral seems
necessary. All the characters are Americans of
the most modern type, and in the dress of to-day.
Youth avoids Passion, but only by the help of
Intoxication. (“Of two evils he has chosen the
less,” remarks .Experience.) He is chiefly afraid of
Poverty, but learns that there are worse friends;
and of Work, whom he cannot find again when he
wants him. There are brisk scenes in a cabaret, a
“dive,” a dope-shop, and a gambling-hell, with a
fine “curtain” of the nigger waiter cheerfully hand-
ing sandwiches regardless of the fact that Despair
has just shot himself. Of course at the finish
Youth comes back to Love, and Ambition revives.
The play is like “Everywoman,” but with much
more go in it, arid should be a big success in Aus-
tralia. Youth (Conrad Nagel) and Experience
(Edmund Elton) are the only really big parts, but
in the 10 acts there are about 70 others. Albert
Gran, the first and best Judge Jeffries that Australia
saw*, is Wealth," an elderly man fretting because he
cannot be one of the boys again. Curiously, Gran
had almost exactly the same part—without the
symbolism—in an American play which Nellie
Stewart tried here without much success.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“E. 8.” : Who said that the rabbit was a
curse to the countryV A couple of Satur-
days ago the Braidwood Refrigerating Co.
(N.S.VV.) paid £412 to local trappers for one
week’s catch —2200 pairs were received at
the works on that day. There are also oppo-
sition buyers operating in the district and
doing good business. Expert hunters have
been known to make as high as £l5 in one
week, setting the snares only on five nights
a week. He is a very poor trapper who
cannot make £<> a week just now.
Victoria’s Railway Commissioners seem
to have settled down into a state of calm
approval of the system of petty burglary
which prevails in the Department. Cases
ind packages, down to small boxes of fruit
carried on suburban lines, are opened by
peculating porters or clerks, but complaints
are of no avail. Perhaps the Commissioners
think that an underpaid service is entitled
to perquisites. It comes rough on the pro-
portion of the public that has to supply the
perqs.
». * * •
“D." : What is the most glaring imposition
a business and robbery in Australia to-day?
I think every business man who will admit
my thing will agree that the fur trade works
•If the most scandalous impositions. I can
speak for Melbourne, but it is not likely
there is any conspicuous reluctance in Syd-
ney to sell an unsuspecting customer five
shillings’ worth of bad rabbit-skins for 18
guineas every time the opportunity offers.
The more unconscionable section of the fur
traders do not even take the trouble to
secure good rabbit-skins when they intend
imposing bunny’s overboat upon some simple
dame as the outer garment of a rarer and
more elegant animal. Well-chosen, cold-
climate rabbit-skins make a fairly lasting
stole, muff or robe; bad rabbit-skin wears
patchy in one brief season. Ye ; t when it is
proven that the price of decent furs has been
taken for sickly, summer-crop skins of Brer
Rabbit, plausibly disguised, defendant’s law-
yer can plead, ‘‘lt is for the buyer to be-
ware,” putting it in imposing Latin, as in
a recent Melbourne case, and the Bench
responds: “Nuf sed!” leaving complainant
‘with her bunch of decayed hides and a load
of costs. Why is it that the open spieler who
sells a gold brick is not protected by the
Latin observation which means “Let the
buyer beware!”? No matter how wary the
ordinary buyer of furs is he-she cannot tell
that a nice-looking alleged coney seal is
really a mass of Riverina rabbit-skin that
will presently moult every hair and make
the wearer look like a mange-stricken tyke.
The law, in discovering a moral difference
between the rascal who sells a gilt-edged
brick for a block of gold, and the rogue who
sells a collection of dyed bunny-skins for
an expensive garment of legitimate furs only
corroborates the general belief that it is a
stupendous ass. Many tradespeople not more
conspicuously fraudulent than the furriers
are compelled to give a printed statement
of the ingredients of their special wares.
Why is this law inapplicable to the profes-
sional spielers who forge and utter counter-
feit musquash coats and fictitious seal,
squirrel or mole stoles and muffs?
* * * *
The U.S. makes most of its own -whisky.
• On the morning after, the free-born citizen
only has one query put to him by those who
•notice the size of his head: “Corn or rye?"
But in Australia we stick pretty solidly to
imported juice. During the past couple of
years this country imported £2.000,000 worth
of spirits. The time seems well matured, for
our new Parliament of old Parliamentarians
to try and do something in the, way of getting
the national hooks into that bunch of money.
Even the rabid whisky-hater of the mostly
fat-headed “temperance” leagues and alli-
ances should be able to lend a hand, recognis-
ing that it must be better for the nation, in
the long run. to patronise the local product
than to make a blind selection from the
variety of mixed poisons we obtain from
abroad for our yearly million.
“Square Jane”: “D.F.” (B. 19/4/’l7) is a
long way out in remarking that Pengelly’s
(S. Aus.) use 7000 ft. of Tasmanian timber
per year. They use on the average 5000 ft.
per day of Tasmanian wood, and hold in
stock over three million super feet of timbers.
This firm started by making birdcages, and
now turns out furniture and all kinds of rail-
way carriages, tramcars and motor bodies.
Incidentally, 3000-odd icechests were manu-
factured during 1916, and the contracts in
hand include dining-cars for the East-West
Railway.
“Double R.”: “Adelaide” asks if £34 is
a record price paid for a cow. It isn’t. One
cow-worshipper bought an addition to his
shrine for which he paid £35. This hanoened
at Cook and Son’s sale at East Barron in
March last. Don’t know what breed of
whisky they used at the sale, but it must
have been pretty strong.
THE MARCH OF MARGARINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time was when none would name it
Save loudly to declaim it.
Belittle and defame it—
Hut now, what change of mien!
Against it none will utter
A word, while most folk mutter
They like it more than butter —•
That dainty margarine!
Proud footmen, once, and pages
Stamped up and down in rages
Like tigers in their cages ;
Fat butters made a scene ;
While nurses, on occasion,
Forgot their proper station,
And asked in indignation:
What did the missus mean !
And cooks, with tearful traces
Upon their comely faces,
At once gave up their places
When offered margarine.
Hut now that peers and princes
Go short of meats and minces,
And each of them evinces,
An interest more keen
In common foods and cheaper,
The coachman and the keeper,
The clerk and crossing-sweeper
Have turned to margarine.
KN GLAND.
W. H. OGILVIE.


w
i
V;
§
n
*
a
//
i
V
rs
i
Hf
«
Mmm§
m
1
\\ v
SMITH 6
JULIUS
z*:
A\ftmwm\\\\\\\\\\\\\\w,\\\\\v\\v\w^
GENERAL
ELECTRIC C?
NEW YORK
KuLiden ~60 ~
See this little lamp in my hand ? It’s
the finest little Money Saver in the country.
Economy, doncherknow, is the most impor-
tant thing, these days, and the installation of
B.T.H. MAZDA
Lamps will keep your light bill down and
your spirits up ! He‘s a cheerful, optimistic
little fellow this little lamp, and sheds a
brilliant, even light that is luminous yet strong.
Call along here and inspect our in-
direct and semi-indirect fittings—l’ll just place
little B.T.H. in position and convince you of
his power.
All the time Pm standing here talking,
Pm as warm as a G.E. Toaster, because, as
you’ll note, I have my G.E. RADIATOR
switched on. For your office or your home,
in winter, you’ll find a G.E. RADIATOR
indispensable. Just ask your wife what she
thinks about it—it’s convenience will win her
approval immediately. Purchase one now
for these chilly winter evenings—what ?
(Australian • General - Electric- G>
Wentworth Ay Sydney, Oof Queen & Little Collins St Melbourne.
{Representing {'British Thomson {Houston, O? jCtd. gßugby, OioJand
cb GENERAL ELECTRIC C 9, NEW YORK.U SA.


A. Saunders* Afternoon Tea Spoons and
Tongs, pure Silver-plated A l quality, 15/0.
Others, 8/6, 10/6, 12/0, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, handsomely finished, £5/10/-
mm
A. Saunders’ Inkstand and Pen Box, pure auver-
plated Cut Class Bottles, “Stag” Design, 35 J m
A. Saunders’' Cheese Dish, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, handsomely engraved, 63/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Table Appointments
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, pure Silver-plated, 26 pieces
in polished Oak Case, £2/15/-
:; /!
m
m
mm
St.. J
A. h landers’ Card Receiver, pure Silver-plated, Ai quality,
handsome Floral Design, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-15 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite
Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Crackers, pure silver-
plated, A 1 quality, beautifully finished, with 2 pairs
Crackers, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, A 1 quality, highly burnished, 55/.
A. Saunders’ Salad Dovvl and Servers, fine Crystal
Cut Glass, pure Silver-plated Mounts, 27/6.
A. Saunders’ Egg Frame and
Spoons, 4 Cups, pure Silver-plated, Gilt
Lined Cups and Spoons, 35/-
Kill those Germs
Germs cause Sore and Husky Throats.
EVANS’ Pastilles.
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
BVANS, SONS, LESCHER & WEBB, Limited, LONDON. I
It must be
BOVRIL
Mummy
says sc
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE
m
u
\
7T^
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 60
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Frien'l>, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
10 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, sd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life. " 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling •by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/6. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, ilius., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6- How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. .Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), * .1/-* posted. Sandow’S Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Ron (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatcbford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. N.ew Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
M
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very-
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this areat work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
iar~ BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH, n
Prof. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-FitTing, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1 /-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette', 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy', 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1 /-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted... Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDouuall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. W annan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. Tiie Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. tMTEstablished 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FKOM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
RUDYARD KIPLING.
A DIVERSITY OF CREATURES.
Stories by RUDYARD KIPLING.
Uniform Edition, 6s. Dominions Edi-
tion, 3s. 6d. Pocket Edition: Cloth,
4s. <3d. net; Leather, ss. net.
THE LIFE OF ALGERNON
CHARLES SWINBURNE. By
EDMUND GOSSE, C.B. With por-
traits and other illustrations.
THE NEW PACIFIC: BRITISH
POLICY AND GERMAN AIMS.
By C. BRUNSDON FLETCHER.
With a Preface by Viscount Bryce,
0.M., and a Foreword by the Rt. Hon.
W. M. Hughes, Prime Minister of
Australia. With Portraits and Map.
7s. 6d.
A HISTORY OF THE BRITISH
ARMY. By the Hon. J. W. FOR-
TESCUE; Vol. VIII. [lBll-1812].
With a separate volume of Maps.
21s. net.
The Round Table
Price 2/6 per copy, or 10/- per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
The March Number contains, amongst
other important Articles :
Australia:
The Conscription Referendum.
The Coal Strike.
The Last Phase.
The War Conference of the Empire.
The New German Empire, etc.
PROF. J. LAURENCE RENTOUL.
AT VANCOUVER’S WELL, AND
OTHER POEMS OF SOUTH AND
NORTH. By J. LAURENCE
RENTOUL, Author of “From Far
Lands: Poems of North and South.”
ss.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
THE CYCLE OF SPRING: A PLAY.
By Sir RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
3s. 6d. net.
STRAY BIRDS POEMS. By Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGORE,
Author of “Gitanjali.” With Front-
ispiece in Color by Willy Pogany.
4s. 6d. net.
The Era : “In ‘Stray Birds’ Tagore is at his
very best; indeed, if he had not already created
nis sensation’ some years back, this would
deservedly be the most-talked-of-book of the
season.”
PROVIDENCE AND FAITH. Ex-
tracts from a Churchman’s Diary.
By WILLIAM SCOTT PALMER.
With an Introduction by Rev. C. H.
S. MATTHEWS, Editor of “Faith
or Fear?”
FAITH OR FEAR? An Appeal t
the Church of England. By DONALI
FIANKEY (A Student in Arms)
WILL I AM SCOTT PALMER
HAROLD ANSON, F. LEWIS
PONALDSON, and CHARLES H
8. MATTHEWS (Editor). 3s. 6d. net.
“Faith or Fear? makes one think, and turn
our mmds to mercy, justice, peace and fait]
mat removes mountains and the love tha
hopeth all things.”—Everyman.
MTV. 1 ™ AND ADVENTURE in
AUSTRALASIA. For Boys and
Girls. By JANE ADA FLETCHER,
Author of “Stories from Nature.”
Illustrated. Is. 6d.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
3s. 6d. per Volume.
STELLA BENSON’S NEW STORY.
V s IS THE END - STELLA
BENSON, Author of “I Pose.”
This is a new story by the Author of that
strikingly original work “I Pose,” in which
the reader is introduced to iJay, “a ’bus-con-
ductor and an idealist. She is not the heroine,
out the most constantly apparent woman In
, The Author explains that she
cannot introduce us to a heroine because she
has never met one.
657 XINGU and Other Stories.
F-y EDITH WHARTO.x.
“Half a dozen other stories, all clever and
unconventional, make ‘Xingu’ not merely a
book to read, but to buy and read again when-
ever one is in the mood to study life and charac-
ter through the eyes of so sympathetic, so
humorous and so realistic a writer.”— The
Illustrated London News.
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksel/erj.
MACMILLAN SCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, Ist May, 1917.
Tenders for Pumping Plant .and Equip-
ment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
JTIENDERS will be received, subject to
JL the conditions of tendering, for the
supply and delivery of Pumping Station
Plant and Equipment for the Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney,
N.S.W., until 12 noon on Wednesday, 10th
October, 1917.
Plans and specifications may be seen at
the office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; at the Common-
wealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney; and at the offices of the District
Naval Officer at Brisbane, Birkenhead
(South Australia), Fremantle and Hobart.
Copies can be obtained on payment of a
deposit of £l5, which will be refunded on
the receipt of a bona fide tender, and the
return of the documents.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tenders for
Pumping Station Plant for Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,” on the
top left-hand corner of the envelope, and
addressed (if by post prepaid) to the Direc-
tor of Navy Contracts, Navy Otnce, Mel-
bourne ; or to the Director of Navy Contracts,
c/o the Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney; or to the Director
of Navy Contracts, c/o the District Naval
Officer at Brisbane, Birkenhead (South Aus-
tralia), Fremantle or Hobart, as the case
may be.
In cases where supply and delivery is
required at Sydney, the prices tendered are
to be c.i.f., Sydney ; the rate of freight is to
be taken as being 80s. per ton from the port
of shipment to Sydney, and if the actual
freight exceeds this amount the excess
charges will be paid by the Commonwealth
Government, upon satisfactory evidence being
produced. If, on the other hand, the actual
freight is less than 80s. per ton, a deduction
will be made in a similar manner.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
GEORGE THE FIFTH by the Grace of
God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond
the Seas King Defender of the Faith
Emperor of India.
To SYDNEY MUNTON formerly of Laun-
ceston in the State of Tasmania and
thereafter of Melbourne in the State of
Victoria Cordial Plant Salesman and
Fitter.
Whereas HERBERT ROWE of “Franklin
Hotel” Elizabeth Street Hobart Licensed
Victualler claiming to have been lawfully
married to Ethel May Rowe formerlv Ethel
May Smith has filed his Petition against
the said Ethel May Rowe in our said Court
praying for a dissolution of his marriage
with the said Ethel May Rowe wherein he
alleges that you have been guilty of adultery
with the said Ethel May Rowe NOW THIS
IS TO COMMAND YOU that within
twenty-one days of the service of this on
you inclusive of the day of such service
YOU DO APPEAR IN OUR SAID COURT
then and there to make answer to the said
Petition a copy whereof stamped with the
official seal of the Registrar of our said
Court is herewith served upon you AND
TAKE NOTICE that in default of your so
doing the Judges of our said Court will
proceed to hear the said charge or charges
proved in due course of law and to pro-
nounce sentence therein your absence not-
withstanding.
DATED this twentieth day of March 1917.
A. G. BRAMMALL
Deputy Registrar (Seal)
Your appearance to this Citation must
give an address at some place within five
miles of the Office of the Registrar of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania at Macquarie
Street Hobart in Tasmania at which address
proceedings and notices for you may be left.
PAGE HODGMAN & SEAGER
of National Mutual Building
Macquarie Street. Hobart
Proetors for the Petitioner.
UMP
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Cova.iiry, England.
► Agants:
► BzmettSßarkell
Ltd.,
> 124-132 Castlereagrh
> Streat, Sydney.
dfa
sdf
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paving office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy Chairman; lion. R. J
Black. M.L.C. : Hon. Jas. Burns. M.L.C.; Hon. E. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., ICC.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000.
The Society issues every desirable form_ of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOBIT OF
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4-7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 10 O „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all informatiorrat nil Rinks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order I’osc Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. thth March, 1917
Kj&fc * § (?EMECTIONUi and 5 4/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
GRAMOPHONE
asd
RECORDS
NEW LIST for JUNE
READY AT ALL DEALERS 25th MAY.
There is no more perfect musical treat than a concert at home
with the*; records. The fidelity with which they reproduce all
the beautty of the original performance is remarkable. These
are some-' of the latest: —
2-033048. Mieaela’sx Air—“ Carmen.”
Frances Alda (Celebrity)
02633. The Color*;.
Mr. Norman Williams (Baritone)
01887. Berceuse, K)p. 16.
C. Warwick Evans (’Cello)
2-3138. Jock o’ B(azcldean.
Madjtiiiic Kirby Lunn
05579. La Campaijella.
Mark Hitmhourjf (Piano)
03492. Bertie and Belinda.
Miss Margaret Cooper
2-032083. Addio alia madre (“Caval-
leria Rusticana”). Caruso
4-2700. Serenata.
McCormack and Kreisler
sesi.
[ Six Short Soldiers.
{ Cut Me Off a Little Bit
( of Roly-poly.
Jay Laurier
Also 13 new records of, Grand Opera in English and several
other notable successes.
Complete lists, instrument eft talogue and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET —. SYDNEY


[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, Johu Barf and E. O’Ff.rrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydaey, accept the responsi-
bility.]
HOYT’S PICTORES
fWn,S;i UreS i evej ? uig 1 ht ’ 3 honrs—l2.ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
tnoioughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to G.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d & 1/-’
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6. '
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOORKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
M-lIU
SEt:
h
O
fij
Lung
Troubles.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Consumption.
For any weakness of throat or chest, or any tendency
to tuberculosis; for a troublesome cough, bronchitis or
any chest affection, the standard, approved treatment is a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. Thisremedy combines sooth-
ing and healing properties with exceptional tonic and
strengthening qualities. It heals and strengthens the lungs,
promotes appetite, greatly improves digestion, and exerts a
pronounced tonic, invigorating influence upon the general
health. No other Emulsion is so strongly recommended and
so largely prescribed by the medical profession, and noother
Emulsion can show so many testimonials to its efficacy.
Send name and address, ,d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIEK GHEMiCAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Before the Australian Parliament opens
what is left of the Labor party will meet to
choose a leader. There is a yarn, generally
accepted as authentic, that when it came to
selecting one after the breakaway of the
Hughes faction, Frank Tudor and Charlie
McDonald polled an equal number of votes,
and the two names were put in a hat. If
this is true, the party’s luck was out when
AFTER SIX.
BROWN : “Too late to get a drink?"
SMITH: “Yes, but you can have a mineral
water or a"
BROWN : “Oh, no, I only wanted a drink —
I’m not thirsty .”
it drew Tudor. He is a harmless, agreeable
little chap who was intended by nature to
be the faithful follower of a strong leader.
As a leader he is a calamity, and it is even
doubtful if his heart was in his work during
the election campaign. When the Victorian
Labor Leagues called upon Ministers to
resign over the conscription issue Russell
refused and Tudor complied. Had he not
done so he would have lost the safest of
seats in Yarra. Ever since Tudor has
seemed an unhappy man. In Vic. practi-
cally all the fighting was left to Frank
Anstey (that other good fighter, Frank
Brennan, being laid up with a bad throat) ;
but Anstey, despite his great gifts, is rather
too erratic for the job of leader. Brennan
has the necessary dialectical skill, Higgs’s
Ministerial experience would stand him in
good stead, and Catts is the best organiser
the party has. But probably the best man
for the position is Charlie McDonald. He
possesses shrewdness and experience; as
Speaker he showed that he was up to every
point of the parliamentary game, and he is
a fighter. Amiability is an excellent thing,
but in politics the Lord is with him who
girdeth up his loins and boggeth in.
[B. J, H. Owen', 75 Glenhuntly Road, Elwood, Vic.]
The elections saw. returned the following
original members of the Reps, who had sat
continuously: Chapman, Webster, Johnson,
Watkins, Bruce Smith, Cook, Kelly, Hughes
(N.S.W.) ; Groom, Bamford, McDonald,
Page (Q.) ; Maloney, Tudor (Vic.) ; Poyn-
ton (S.A.) ; McWilliams (Tas.) ; Mahon,
Forrest and Fowler (W.A.) k Thus out of
the first-elected 75 only 19 are left. Chanter'
(N.S.W.) and Salmon (Vic.) are also back,
but they have not sat continuously.
HARD TO BELIEVE.
MRS. ISAACS: “In de East it is a cusdom to
vosh de feet before endering a temple."
MR. ISAACS : “ Ain’t it marvellous vot
religious fervor vill make de human race
endure .”
Jo Cook drove the first nail into Phew-
sion’s coffin when he said, in the flush of
party triumph, that the sun of Labor had
set behind the hills, never to reappear. The
idea of the cause of Labor having finally
disappeared from political consideration
wouldn’t appeal to more than 20 per cent,
of Joseph’s partisans, anyhow. The other
80 per cent, are personally interested in
keeping Labor’s celestial lamp burning,
though they would like to see quite another
crowd trimming the wick. “The sun of
Labor has set behind the hills, never to re-
appear !” There must be - times when
Hughes would like to be able to summon a
thunderbolt from Heaven to smite his loving
and beloved brother.
Chas. Kingston used to tell another story
of George Reid. The South Australian held
that George possessed an egotism
almost as abounding as his girth, and
thereby hangs the tale. “Gabriel had
blown his trumpet,” said Kingston,
“his terrible, brazen trumpet, one blast
of which rent our heavens and sent
the clouds reeling and eddying like
distracted waifs. He blew another, and
the earth shook, the mountains gaped,
and up out of the dust came George
Reid, shaking the moult from his Gar-
gantuan frame. Again the angel
Gabriel blew a blast splitting immens-
ity, and George Reid clapped his hands
to his ears. Once more Gabriel raised
the glorious instrument to his lips, but
George Reid stumbled forward, caught
the angel’s robe and tugged it. ‘Here,’
he said, ‘that will do. I'm up!' "
The dear old Argus tripped on its skirt
the other day when it credited Hughes with the
statement that the Ministry would promote
“all that is worthy in unionism.” As soon
as he read the report the ex-Labor man, who
is now leading (more or less) the party of
Fat, hastily ordered a messenger to gallop
around to the editor and tell him not to com-
pound a blue pill. What he had uttered
was the soothing platitude that the new
Ministry would bestow its blessing on “all
that is worthy in the community.” Where-
upon the Argus breathed a deep sigh of
relief, and Fat put his axe back in his belt.
The political prophets are all taking
the count. After the great Hughes
maffick. Conscription was forecasted a cer-
tainty. It was badly walloped. On that,
Labor’s chances appeared golden, and Hol-
man went to the Ma State electors with an
aching heart. But Labor was donkey-licked,
and Holman ached no more. Then came the
Maryborough (Q.) election. Labor braced
itself for a bump, but Liberalism went down.
So Labor began to talk confidently about the
future, especially when the Senate scandals
sent Phewsion flying for shelter. Phe horny-
handed stood on the fence and cheered. A
few weeks of jubilation and the I ederal
avalanche swept Labor into the abyss, while
the Bananaland electors embraced the fat
shoulder of the Leg. Council they rescued
from Labor Premier Ryan. There seems to
be a mighty slump in the prophet industry.
If the judgment of the N. S. Wales Court
of Appeal, upholding the verdict in Egan v.
the Broken Hill Miners’ Union stands the
acid of the High Court, a new plank will be
added to the Labor platform. And it will
be one the public can be relied upon to think
very hard about. The appeal turned on
whether a union in its corporate capacity
could be held responsible for the acts of its
officials unless it could be established that
these actions were in pursuance of the pur-
poses for which . the union was _ founded.
Frances Egan, plaintiff at the original trial,
who got £450 damages from the union, un-
doubtedly suffered through the attentions of
the union and use of the boycott, but it was
argued that this mattered nothing since the
union had not been formed to boycott or
persecute anyone—that resolutions of the
union directing the campaign against Egan
were not within the functions of a union
meeting. The Court declined to swallow this,
and refused to assume that a union carrying
on a boycott is doing something for which it
ought not to stand responsibility. After
the High Court has spoken, unions will find
out for certain whether they are liable for
actions in their corporate capacity. If they
are not, quite a lot of people will reckon they
ought to be. If they are, quite as many will
hold to the opinion that discovery of the
truth may do much good.
When Victoria’s Parliament, after fre-
quent urging, passed a Rating on Land
Values Act more than two years ago, the
House of Rich Landlords —which naturally
doesn’t believe in having idle lands rated
on the unimproved value —casually inserted
a little clause compelling municipali-
ties that wanted to apply the measure to
use the State Land Tax Department’s
valuations, which may not be completed till
the war ends, or possibly not this century.
Anyhow, the Department is in no hurry, so
some councils are urging Peacock either to
spur it along or to amend the Act so that
they can use their own valuations. But
Peacock isn’t in any hurry, either, though
as a matter of common honesty and public
advantage the unimproved values rating
principle should have been compulsory long
ago. However, c.h. and p.a. don’t agitate
many politicians these days.
“XXX”: It was in 1892, in the press
gallery of the Maoriland House, that I first
heard R. C. Bruce, whoso death is now re-
ported. He had come back to Parliament
after two years’ absence; and everybody,
knowing his reputation as a Speaker,
trooped in to hear him when he rose in the
financial debate, and listened with keen
enjoyment to his delightfully easy and grace-
ful language. But how hopelessly antiquated
were his political views! “This is a policy
calculated to sap the self-reliance of the
people, and drive capital from the country,”
was the burden of his song—all becoming
very old stuff by that time, for it had been
the battle-cry of the Atkinsonites at the
1890 election, when Ballance swept the
polls. Bruce, before he settled down to
farming in Maoriland in 1877, worked as a
sailor, chiefly in American ships, and he
never lost the breezy, rugged air or trans-
parent honesty of the average seafaring
man.
ANOTHER HERO.
THE KID : “What did you do to win the
great war, father ?”
FATHER: “Me? I—er—I voted for Billy
Hughes."
C. R. Howroyd, who beat Kink O'Malley
for the Darwin (Tas.) seat in the Reps, and
died at the fag end of the fight, had one
decent piece of legislation to his credit—The
Shops’ Closing Act. But after piloting that
measure through he retired from the lime-
light and did nothing of note, as the “popu-
lar” politician understands things of note,
till he resigned.
MIGHT BE WORSE.
TOM : “Must be bloomin' dangerous place
over in France , Bill?"
BILL: “My oath! Pretty 'ot! But they
keeps us well away from the cities."
John Scaddan, ex-Premier of Westralia,
is a native of Moonta, S.A., and at the time
of the Conscription referendum he wired to
Premier Vaughan: “I desire officially to
notify you that from to-day I renounce
South Australia as my mother State unless
Moonta proves to be of true metal.” Perhaps
Moonta. wanted to get rid of its spendthrift
son; at any rate it turned Conscription down
by 1916 votes to 524. But last week, after
S.A. had in general voted for the Fusion,'
Scaddan sent another flamboyant wire:
“Congratulations, your State’s magnificent
response to our country’s call. You may
officially re-enter my acknowledgment of
S.A. as my mother State.”- S.A. made
note of it on the back of an old lOU.
The alliance between Liberal and National
Labor in S.A. took less than a week to
crack. These party labels, unwieldy and mis-
leading, mean that Peake follows Cook,
Vaughan follows Hughes, and Lundie tracks
Tudor. Peake refused any alliance with
Vaughan except for Federal purposes. The
Saturday after the general election saw
several by-elections for the State Assembly,
the most interesting of which was in East
Torrens. Vaughan put up Olifent, who was
a secretary to the U.L.P. in the days when
it urns united ; but not even the uniform of
the returned soldier, and the benefit of the
blessed word “National,” could turn the
trick. It was a straight, three-sided fight,
and each candidate scored over 3000 votes,
with the Liberal' a few hundreds ahead of
each of the others at the finish.
Australia pays for the national imports
and settles with Cohen by (1) borrowing,
(2) exports. This paper assumes that when
the tank runs dry and the mice and weevil
and submarines have finished with the
material awaiting shipment and on the
water, and the former customers begin to
feed themselves, Australia will settle the
weekly bill by deciding to meet the situation
with calmness and confidence. In the inter-
val the alleged fact that Germany is in great
dread of an economic war after the Great
Bash is over, and the unquestionable truth
that every one of the seven Australian Gov-
ernments is shivering with horror about the
day after to-morrow can be taken as encour-
agement to keep on being calm and confident
as heretofore. That tyiy Government should
propose to start paying for imports by the
simple device of not going bung has of course
evaded notice. If Hughes or Cook or Irvine
or anyone like that in the interval of win-
ning the war has an idea about why going
bung ought to be avoided, and can snatch a
few minutes to say something on the subject,
The Bulletin has a suspicion that the time
is just about ripe. How much longer do
they think the fuse will smoulder, even
assuming the war were to finish next week?
THE NATION THAT IS NOT SO SMALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord Derby (British Secretary for War) states
that the war will not end until the United States has
her full fighting force thrown into the scale.
The war goes on. The little nations wait
The coming day of freedom bought with fire.
Not yet we burst the foeman’s guarded gate
Or touch the peace-wreath of the world’s desire.
Close up the ranks! Qnce more unto the breach 1
In days like these only the guns may preach.
The text of hate must be expounded well
In raid and charge and desolating flame.
The road to Heaven is by the edge of Hell
And glory yet shall gild the rays of shame.
’Tis for the little nations. Servia’s pain
And Belgium’s torture wring our hearts again.
Forget the rest. One little nation’s case
That bled and suffered for eight hundred years
Must not be mentioned while we still can face
The Teuton over seas of blood and tears.
Let Ireland wait. When the loud cannon pause
We may evade considering her cause.
What’s that? America must lend her aid
To the last stirring of her sinewed might
Before the German’s fury can be stayed
Or victory crown us in the stubborn fight;
And the small nation which we still deride
Has mighty hosts of kin on Wilson’s side.
Something must happen. Tory souls may fume
And fret and swear the time is not yet ripe;
But this we needs must learn e’er death and doom
Vield room for peace a bitter sword to wipe—
la breaking our victorious pathway through
That all America means Ireland too t
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


NOVELS for the
LOUTS
A.I.F.
The Editor of The Bulletin R~d
Page set out some time ago to dis-
cover what Australians in, the trenches
preferred to read. This is the reply
of a-Lieut.-Colonel in command of an
Australian battalion (printed in Bul-
letin, l/3/’l7) :
sdf
asd
fas
“There is a great hankering after anything Australian; and I
think the Bookstall Serieswould please Bilijim more than anything
else.”
Many thousands of the famous shilling Bookstall novels have already been for-
warded to Australians on the various fronts. They are the ideal reading for the
Australian soldier—great novels of life in the continent they know so well.
1/- each. ALL ONE PRICE. 1/1 posted.
TWELVE GREAT AUSTRALIAN
NOVELS.
“ON .HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,”
By LOUIS BECKE.
“LOVES OP LANCELOT,” '
By EDWARD DYSON.
“THE KNIGHT OP THE MOTOR-
LAUNCH,”
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER,”
By RALPH STOCK.
“IN RACING SILK,”
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
By DON DELANEY.
“IN THE LAST STRIDI ,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“DAN KELLY—OUTLAW,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGI-
NEER,”
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
“TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE,”
By E. J. BRADY.
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS SELECTION BOOKS AND EIGHTY OTHER
SHILLING NOVELS.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
‘ an ‘oo nviSMooa m s n
476Ceorg3 Stroit,
SYiJNEY.
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/e.)
BRITISH-MADE
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
Some Excellent “REGAL” RECORDS at 2/- each.
THEY LAST TWICE. AS LONG.
6012
f Boys of the Dardanelles Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
1 What Do You Think of Australia Now? ~ ~
6815
S Your King and Country Want You Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
1 Fall In
6827
f Bugle Calls of the British Army—Part 1
I Bugle Calls of the British Army—Part 2
6841
( “Tipperaryland,” Panto Overture, Part 1 Itegal Orchestra.
I “T.pperaryland,” Panto Overture, Part 2.... . ~ ~
6815
f “Tipperaryland, 1
l Chicago Tickle
Tanto Overture, I’art 3 Regal Orchestra.
Regal Military Rand.
0846
f I Do Like S’Nice S’Mince P.es F. W. Ramsey.
I We’re Irish and Proud of it, too „ „
6850
J Merry Wedding Bells Stanley Kirkby.
( Now Are We All Here, Yes Frank Lindley.
6861
1 When the Piper Piayed the Wedding Tune Jack Lorimer.
I There’s the Girl Who „ ~
6863
J My Croony Melody Stanley
J When Dreams Come True Irving
Kirkby.
Gillette.
6870
j Till the Boys Come Home Harrison
( When Tammy Comes Marching Home H.
Latimer.
Marlow.
6874
J Jerry Jinks, Scallywag—War Sketch, Part 1
l Jerry Jinks, Scallywag—War Sketch, Part '£
6883
) Departure of Australian Troops l'or Front Descriptive.
[ Arrival of Australian Troops in Egypt „
6917
S Little Singing Girl of Eldorado ' Stanley Kirkby.
t Razzy VVazzy Lou ~ >,
6919
S Winter Nights Regal Quartette.
(The Mississippi Barbecue Geo. O’Connor.
6920
j Rosy Ka'pture, Selections, Part 1 Regal Orchestra.
I Rosy Rapture, Selections, Part 2 „ ~
6322
1 Sally is My Ally—Duet Norala Meadows & Stanley Kirkby.
i The Honeymooncrs Stanley Kirkby.
6923
j Same sort of Mother and Same Sort o Child Win. Thomas.
i When I'm With You „ ~
6925
J The Four-Foot-Ten Brigade
i The Constant JLover
Harrison Latimer.
YV'illiam Thomas.
(>927
\ i'iddle l un, Part X—Violin and P.ano Louis
i I'iddle lun, Part 2—Violin and P.ano ~
k Lei Vis.
6931
S Good-Bye, Virgin,a
( Come Over to Dover
Sari Ash & Quartette.
Campbell & Gillette.
6939
j The Modest Curate ' Walter Walters
l Wondering Willie ~ ~ •
7270
j Boj s of the Dardanelles—March
£ High School Cadets —March ...
Band of H.M. Scots Guards.
Silver Stars Band.
7291
J A Perfect Day Frank
C Somewhere a Voice Is Calling: Kerns
Webster.
& Stuart.
7302
j A Broken Doll Stanley Kirkby
( Keep the Kettle Boiling, Mary .. „ „
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola. Ltd.. Daking House, Itawson Place.
MELIIOL ItXE, VlC.—Hinsdale's Proprietary, Ltd., 2C9 Swanston St.
IIItiSIIANE, ({. —King: and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie street.
PEltTll. \V.A.—II. It. Firth, Koval Arcade.
AI'CKLAXI). X.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan. Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
(’ll KIsTCII L ItCllt N.Z.— Wehle.v Sons and Gol'ton, Ltd., 2-i3 Uigli »t.
DFNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
WORMS.
ONE NINE INCHES LONG AND ANOTHER FOUR
INCHES PASSED BY CHILD AFTER TAKING
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS.
The effective qualities of Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets have again been abund-
antly proved in the case of the young son
of Mrs. A. E. Bade, of 203 McKillop Street,
East Geelong, Vie. Mrs. Bade wrote us of
her own accord the statement published
below, and has consented to allow it to be
published, and she will have pleasure in
confirming the statements made therein.
Mrs Bade writes: “I have great pleasure
in writing to you to let you know the satis-
factory results I had in your ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets for my young son, aged
14 years. He has been ailing for some time
and complained of pain in the spine and a
very sore stomach, and often in the night
would start vomiting without any warning
whatever. He also had several fainting
turns. I became alarmed and took him to
the doctor, but the treatment did him no
good. I then thought I would try your
Worm Tablets,' as to me he had every
appearance of worms. I procured a bottle
of them, together with a bottle of Indian
Root Pills, and commenced the treatment.
The second day after taking them he passed
a stomach worm nine inches long, and the
next day one four inches long Since then
he has picked up wonderfully and is twice
the child he was. If he shows any signs
again I will not hesitate to try them, as I
was so pleased with the results. I am most
grateful to the proprietors of these tablets,
as my husband is away on Active Service
and the worry of our boy being so ill nearly
drove me mad. Thanking you again.”
STOMACH WORMS.
A MENACE TO CHILDREN.
Stomach worms are undoubtedly the most
invidious kind- of all. They inhabit the
stomach and inflict great havoc upon their
victim. They deprive the victim of half the
nutriment he consumes, and when the
stomach is empty gnaw the sides of the
stomach, causing such terrible sensations as
to often cause faintness. Aperient medi-
cines have no effect upon them, for when
any purgative is taken they fasten them-
selves to the walls of the stomach by a
groove runn&ng down their side. The best
method of dislodging stomach worms is to
starve the (system and take Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. The worms are
weakened by the want of food, and are
induced to tak<e whatever is taken into the
stomach. Comfstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets contain the properties which sicken
and disable the worms, and a dose of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills will clear them
out of the system.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 3s. (id. iter packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.
£
A
ECUADOR
if
PER
<
BOLIVIA
SOUTH !
!
T R aL
WESTERN
L
b A
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRALIA
&
A*
Albury


Inconceivable that Russian or any other
brand of Socialism could possibly blend with
Kaiserism is the suggestion inspired by the
spirit of that royal blend King George IV.
topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
dfa
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Q O
Drawers, XO
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
VITALITY FOR MEN
Yon can make every moment of life a joy by adopting
the Orloff System of Scientific Physiological Culture.
Even, the first week’s Treatment will give you an
improvement almost beyond belief.
It will develop your figure—broaden your shoulders,
deepen your chest, give you wonderful muscle develop-
ment and a perfect carriage.
If your physical and nervous system is depleted—if
you are losing vitality, nerve and strength—if you are
tired and worn out by the day’s work—if you are thin,
anaemic, sallow, nervous, despondent, - undeveloped, for-
getful, _ listless—if you have backache, constipation,
indigestion, kidney trouble, catarrh, rheumatism, or if
your vital organs are affected—the Orloff System will
absolutely cure you and bring you back to the perfection
of health.
FREE!
THE ORLOFF BOOK
Bui. 3.4/5/’17.
The Orloff Book tells the complete story of this wonder-working
System of Culture. It explains what you may accomplish and
gives the fee. Cut out this advt., and send it with 3d. in stamps
to pay postage, etc., and we will send you- a copy.
THE ORLOFF SYSTEM, 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
sdf
SPORTING
NOTIONS
\ ictorian Chief Secretary McLeod lately
incited the Police Department to furnish a report
on proprietary racecourses in the vicinity of the
larra. The sum and substance of the report is that
the abolition ot proprietary racing would be a boon
and a blessing to the community. Wherefore McLeod
says it is “a grave question” whether these institu-
tions should be allowed to continue in existence. How
long it is going to take him to make up his mind
on the subject this page has no sort of idea, but as
lie announced the other day that the number of
racing days would be the same as last year the pro-
bability seems to be that McLeod can be relied
U P?" t?. keep the matter steadily in view. Mean-
while this pagp once more suggests that the time is
more than ripe for the State Governments throughout
Australia' to do the decent thing and get on to this
proprietary racing 'business with a steam-roller. To
speak about sport in connection with proprietary
lacing is to outrage the word, though there are per-
haps two or three clubs which do not come within
the sweeping condemnation. The thing is bad in
principle and worse in practice.
Hitherto in this controversy there has been on one
side a crowd of frantic killjoys who want to root out
racing altogether ; on the other the people who could
see no more inherent evil in a horse race than in
a yacht race. But time and experience have shown
that leaving the matter to a few fanatics and a
crowd of individuals addicted to let-it-slide prin-
ciples is no good. That there is far too much racing
can hardly be disputed. That there is benefit of any
sort in this except to shareholders of a few pro-
prietary clubs, to bookmakers, the breeders of a
poor grade of nag and to a vast crowd of parasites
is believed by no one. The sole justification of racing
is its sporting side. Where this is absent the thing
is a curse. That all the reasonable sporting require-
ments of the population of, say, Svdney and Mel-
bourne ■ cannot be provided at Flemington,
Caulfield and llandwick by clubs which race for
sport and not for profit this paper resolutely declines
to believe.
* * * #
“OX": The prohibition of all horse-
racing in Britain and Ireland suggests that petty
proprietary meetings, at least, should be suppressed
in Australia for the remaining term of the war.
ihe ordinary metropolitan mid-week meeting is a
rendezvous for slackers of the two sorts—spielers
and “mugs.” To stand outside the railway station
and gaze upon the crowd returning from a ponv
course is' to wonder why these things should be. It
is a crowd of scowling anti-conscriptionists, mostly
flushed with drink. A large assortment of wasters
mostly of fighting age. The irony of the evil spec-
tacle is in the fact that these ignoble habitual punters
are commonly known as .“battlers.” They are pre-
pared to shed their last shilling in combat with the
books. They will fight on against odds until their
supply of ammunition fails.- They are eternally
doing in their little bit.
David Brandt, a Sydney parson who
orates periodically about “morals” before the Scotch-
byterian Assembly, has been at it again. “There
are 9000 young men hanging on to and loafing
upon the pony courses of this State.” Any bookie
will lay Davy 100 to 3d. that he is talking through
the top of his tile. Including all the old men and fat
men and young men and females who rush to the
ponies every week the job of finding 9000 altogether
would end nine times out of 10 in making a mistake.
* * * *
The tote handed out its biggest dividend
so far in N.S.W. on Saturday—£76 10s. on Orelad
in the Welter at Maitland. On the 10s.
ticket this represented 152 to 1 ; ‘lke was offering
20’s. As an argument for patronising the machine
when something unexpected is considered likely to
occur these figures establish a strong case. Of
course the punter who goes looking for long prices
is just as certain to baek losers whether he is dealing
with the tote or Ike, the only comfort for him being
that when one of the rough-’uns turn up the rein-
forcement his wad receives from the machine will
cany him on longer than the aid the bags produce.
The machine is being given a pretty raw deal by the
Government in N.S.W., but should it get any-
thing like fair patronage at Randwick this page
reckons the public are going to see some fairly excit-
ing figures when the favorites miss.
*** j *
Will the N.S.W. Government knock off
appointing new Legislative Councillors and
winning the war and all the rest of it for two
minutes and have a look at this totalisator business?
Surely there can be no possible excuse for tolerating
what is going on. Among other things the alteration
of totals is indefensible. At Victoria Park (Sydney)
last week after the first division of the 14.2 handicap
had been run the aggregate was given as 491. Then
it was changed to 488, and later on to 489. In the
meantime alterations were made in the totals on
various nags. Nothing could bring the machine into
greater disrepute than this sort of thing. It is
continually happening.
' * * * *
“Mujilt”: Of course what the totalisator
is doing on Sydney courses is pitiful. Compare a
turnover of £2500 on a day’s racing at Warwick
Farm with what goes on in Maoriland. There was
a two-days’ meeting lately at Timaru, and on each
day £ll,OOO was handled at the machine. Timaru
is a one-horse provincial town. Between a meeting
there and at Warwick Farm there is no point of
comparison in regard to betting, and there would
be at least 10 times as keen a betting crowd at the
Farm. At Wellington (M.L.) autumn meeting
£76,000 was handled at the machine in two days.
Yet there is far less wagering there than on a Sydney
suburban course. Either • the Government ought to
make its mind up to run the totalisator on a decent
revenue-producing basis or wheel the blessed thing
away. No one asked to have it set up for the pro-
motion of humor.
* * * *
“Trot”: I am only waiting to see what
happens when an embezzling cashier like the man (B.
10/6/’l7) who dumped £2500 into Ikey’s bag at
Randwick about Spurn and confided £l2OO to
MacShortodds about Cetigne arrives in front of the
totalisator and demands £1750 tickets on Stumer-
ilda. Of course one result will be to throw all the
arithmetic into chaos, but if another is not to set
every punter in sight searching his pockets for a
quid to deposit on the good thing, then the dull thud
at the end will be robbed of half its horribleness.
The Adelaide Cup meeting showed what
the totalisator can do under moderate conditions.
The S.A.J.C., through giving up its first day for the
Federal election, had to run the Cup on an off-day,
and was struck by a hailstorm on its last afternoon;
so the machine handled only £44,000 (before the
war it used to take half as much again). The Gov-
ernment’s cut at 5 per cent, (double what it was
before the war) was £2200, and the Jockey Club,
at its old 7$ per cent, rate, got £3300 less than
usual, but still a useful help towards the stake-
money. Winners had £38,500 out of the £44,000
divided among them. There were no sensational
dividends, because form was very consistent and the
public found not much difficulty in picking ’em.
However, £lB 18s. was handed out once, and the
backers of seconds did fairly well. The machine
divides up exactly on the lines lately advocated by
The Bulletin, one-fourth of the money available
going to backers of the second horse. Dividends
worked out this way: Ist, £7; 2nd, £6 165.; Ist,
£5 1?.; 2nd, £4 (in a field of eight) ; Ist, £3
16s. ; 2nd, £8 10s. (in a field of nine). Incidentally,
the odd coppers which the tote does not pay out
amounted in the three days to £2OO, which is
apportioned among charities.
* * * *
The double Derby winner Mountain King
got a big advt. as a sire at Randwick on Saturday.
Two of his family were winners. The first to
materialise was the Rajah of Pudukota’s King
ilostyn, which annexed the Hurdle Race after argu-
ment with a fair field. But a more attractive achieve-
ment was that of Mountain Lassie, which landed
the Two-year-old Handicap, six furlongs. This filly
streaked along the straight in fine style, and won
well in lmin. 15sec. This speedy, good-looking
young lady has not been knocked about in her
youth, and the writer puts her down among the
Derby possibilities for next year. She was bred
by her owner, John McDonald, at Mungie Biindie,
and is trained by Dick O’Comjor, who led Burradoo
in as a winner at Canterbury Park a week earlier.
Lady Swynford, the runner-up, won a race at Moore-
field lately, and did well to get so close with
Bst. 61b. on her back. She was conceding 121 b.
to Mountain Lassie. As the other place-getter, Nada
Light, is also a filly, the colts came to the conclu-
sion that they had been put in their places.
MacROBERTSON, the lolly king, practising
croquet.
It has been several times mentioned on
this page that Felix Booth’s nag Quarale was better
than most people believed. Further evidence in sup- '
port of this theory was produced at Randwick on
Saturday, when the judge detected Quarale (Bst.
31b.) half a neck ahead of Karanaud King (Bst.
91b.) in Tattersall’s Winter Stakes. Up to the dis-
tance it looked as if the King was running City
Tatt.’s Cup over again. Quarale is owned by an
uncle of Sam and Tony Hordern, who. have also won
events worth mentioning in these parts. The moke
has now won seven races this season, four being at
Randwick. Bombita seems to be a fraud. This
particular pommy has not won so far in Australia,
though he has run two or three good races. Still
he must have shown trainer Booth something out of
the ordinary lately, as he was served up a warm
favorite for the Winter Stakes, and occupied the same
position a week earlier in Newcastle Cup.
* * * *
Two imported prads spent a busy after-
noon at. Randwick on Saturday, Conquistador taking
the Flying and Snow King the Stakes. The first of
these originated in Yankeeland, coming to Australia
with the Wheatstone collection. He was sold for 190
guineas, has won races with welter weights aboard
in Bananaland, -and was twice in a place at New-
castle Cup meeiing. Snow King, by the once great
racehorse Willonvx, was backed to win a hatful at
long prices, and though the crowd he beat was not
the best in the world Snow King may be heard of
again. The nng is owned by two ladies. One of
them is Mrs. Keith, in whose name Quinn’s Post, a
winner at Canterbury Park the other day, also runs.
* * * *
_Clapator, a pony, was asked a big question
at Mudgee (N.S.W.) on Saturday. There were
five events on the programme, and Clapator com-
peted in three, all run over four furlongs. First
he won the Opening Handicap by two lengths, start-
ing at 4 to 1 against; an hour later he secured the
Pony Club Handicap at 3 to 1; in the last race
of the day he was beaten by a length. Clapator’s
weights were Bst. 51b., Bst. 121 b., and 9st. slb.
Probably the next to be heard of him will be having
a fly round Sydney courses.
* » * *
“Spreader”: The owner of Maoriland’s
champion Desert Gold must be losing his mozzle,
otherwise the mare would not have been started in
those two races she got beaten, in. Hitherto he had
been getting the business of placing his nags down
to a fine art. Lowry bought Bobrikoff and Balboa
from his trainer Davis after their ability to hurry
was beyond dispute. He bred the M.L. Cup winner
Downfall, about the luckiest moderate that ever
floated home in front of a good field. There have
been some very lucky moderates in front at the end
of that race, too. Desert Rose, another of Lowry’s,
was a good mare, but owed a lot of her success to
judicious placing. Lowry’s name figures more among
the owners of small cup and big handicap winners
than among the proprietors of “classic’’ winners.
He has been racing many years, but never had a
nag, except Desert Gold, that could mix it with the
mokes bred by Stead, Clifford or Ormond.
Private J. D. Anderson, of Ballarat, writes
to tell how his cobber Dave Ross, a corporal in the
same battalion, won the D.C.M. at Pozieres: “Dave,
who used to put the weight and toss the caber at
Highland sports, is as strong as a lion. He was on
outpost duty when six Germans popped out of a shell-
hole and went for him. His three mates could not
reach him, but he stuck to his post and went for
the Huns. Pie bayoneted five and closed with the
sixth, who during the struggle bit his nose, ear, chin
and a finger nearly off. Then lie grabbed the Hun,
lifted him up, banged him heavily on the ground,
picked up his bayonet, and —well, pick the winner.
On Melbourne Boat Race day, Neville
Fairbairn Armytage, who rowed with Geelong Gram-
mar in 1915-16, strolled into the- Town Hall recruit-
ing depdt with the colors of his old school flying,
and enlisted. He is 20; one of the South Yarra
Armytages. As soon as the news reached his
pal, Eric Donald Bowler, 18, of Annandale
South Station, Holbrook (N.S.W.), he concluded that
his place was in the same vicinity. So he enlisted.
The lads were in the school’s 1915 football team,
and they will go into the artillery together.
* * * *
Back from the greatest rush he had ever
been in, Charlie McMurtrie, a many-times representa-
tive New South Wales llugbyite. Charles fled to the
war nearly two years ago, and returns minus a lump
of shoulder-blade. Coming to Sydney from Orange in
1908, he got a place with the Wallabies who toured
Britain that year and part of the next. Later on, he
followed the money, and went over to the League, and
again distinguished himself. A place was found for
him among the Kangaroos of 1911-12 for the tour
of England. On that trip McMurtrie played in only
seven matches and scored three tries. Being a cove
who just simply had to have a punch when anything
was doing, he happened to be twice ordered off the
field. The first time was against Hunslet, for which
he was suspended for one week. The second occasion
was at Swinton, in Lancashire, when the local cham-
pion wrestler tried to hurl Mac. through space with
the assistance of the “flying mare,” Rastlin’ being a
game of McMurtrie’s, the Swinton player had his wind
knocked -out. A month later McMurtrie had his
shoulder hurt at Runcorn (Cheshire), and was out of
action for the rest of the tour. Before going to "the
Front McMurtrie played for Balmain, and he declares
there is a shove in the old kit yet.
* * * *
“Musketoon”: Just about the time a
Sydney parson was dealing out language to sport of
all sorts (B. 17/5/’l7), this is what the Rev. L.
Dawson Thomas, C.E. clergyman, was saying at
Dtibbo (N.S.W.) at the funeral of jockey D. Pink,
who had been killed by a fall off the racehorse Grey
Sim, at Tottenham, Forbes: “Many persons had a
wrong idea of men who followed the sporting pro-
fession. I have met many good and worthy men con-
nected with sport. If a man leads a clean iife, it does
not matter what profession he follows; he is worthy
of the honor and respect of every citizen of the com-
munity.” This sounds better than the other fellow’s
rant. The dead jockey left a widow and a couple of
youngsters, and already Western sports have sub-*
scribed enough cash to ensure placing the widow in a
little business of her own.
* * * «
“0.K.”: Something more than anti-con-
scription sentiment is charged against the football
bal-rackers of the Labor strongholds in Melbourne Ijy
the lecruiting sergeants. Five of them who were
told off to harangue the crowds at Fitzroy, Colling-
wood arid South Melbourne the other Saturday told
the same tale of rowdy interruptions and personal
hostility. At Fitzroy and South Melb. the orating
Bill jims were actually assaulted, more or less.
Truculent shirkers threatened to deal with them,
and the recruiters' left to escape the “deal.” The
verdict of the sergeants is complimentary to race-
course punters as compared with the other sort of
“sports.” Those who follow the horses are said to
be “gentlemen” beside shirkers in the football line
of enthusiasm. Which ought not to be so very
surprising as it appears. Football crowds are
notoriously intolerant .of plain facts: Good bar-
rackers are bad losers. The average habitual punter
is a philosopher who will listen to reason—after the
race, but the football barracker is a different sort of
ass. He fastens his mind to his club colors or party
dogma, and reckons it his duty as a man to howl the
opposition down.
* *• * #
Yes, glory be, the Church gets a cut along
with the rest, and a fairly healthy cut, too, some-
times. The puppy, Beauty’s Pride,'which landed the
Metropolitan Stakes at Liverpool (Sydney), last
week, is the property of a great sport who wears a
clerical collar above black. The pup was backed for
a good solid wad at the call of the card, before a
course had been run, 100’s to 4 and later 7 to 1
straight out being taken. It is stated that this was
due to a trial. of Beauty’s Pride with the seasoned
hound Achieved, which went within a whisker of
winning last Waterloo Cup. The pup did not
beat Achieved, but did so well that those in the
know girded up their loins and went in pursuit of
Mo forthwith.
* * * *
In her earlier courses Beauty’s Pride did
not show to great advantage, wherefore there were
good odds offering on each flutter. But on the second
day she snuffed out Comedy Chief, the Derby winner
and favorite for the stake, whereupon all Israel sat
up with a jerk, and took notice of what happened
next. The next two courses she won easily, and by
the time lunch was ready the final began to look
a cert. The: puppy was taken for a walk by her
trainer during the smoke-o, and on being brought
back to hemkennel promptly leaped at a large piece
of steak-which someone, had left there during her
absence. But the steak was captured by the trainer
before it vanished, and conveyed to the stewards for
analysis or something. If there was anything else
but meat it didn’t go down, and the pup won bril-
liantly. Beauty’s Pride, whelped in October, 1915, is
by White Hope from The Bride. It was her first
appearance in public.
*. * * *
“Mffrkah”: At Rooty Hill (N.S.W.)
Plumpton the other day I inspected the hare about
to be chased for its life in the last course of the
day; time, 4 p.m. It was “sitting,” cramped, in
one of a series of small coops, into which it had
been driven at 9 a.m. Therefore, for seven weary
hours this unfortunate animal had waited, wet and
cold (there had been a heavy rainstorm) for its
turn. The uproar of shouting bookmakers and whin-
ing dogs must have scared so timid an animal nearly
to death. What chance had it in the unequal contest
which followed? It hadn't one in a row of figures.
Once a hare is put into an enclosure, though it may
survive a dozen courses, inevitably it is caught. It
must be a peculiar brand of logic that permits this
inhuman business of coursing while prohibiting
cockfighting, where, at any rate, the odds are equal.
* * * *
It was a pair of feathers again at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday—Sid Godfrey' and Tommy
Ryan. In a previous conflict at Brisbane Thomas
found it was all over when he asked what happened
while the 11th chapter was being read. On Saturday
Godfrey went in to make it happen some more, and
was met by' a Ryan who was mostly absent when
Sid knocked, but returned promptly at the right
interlude. The verdict went to Thomas. Perhaps
Godfrey is the better of the pair, but the habit he
has fallen into of punishing the atmosphere is not
going to win him many fights.
The best judge of Dave Meekin’s chance
against Herb McCoy at Brisbane Stadium on Satur-
day was a Bilijim who passed him up a lump of
hardwood in the eighth breather. David’s munitions
consisted of a left flick to the nose and a hook that
mostly failed. As lie presented these with his head
down McUoy spent a profitable evening. After cas-
ually uppercutting the foe in the ninth round Herbert
was able to enjoy the pleasures of solitude.
“Mujik”: So the uncle of “Victo” (B.
17/5/’l7) walked from Back Creek station to Rigs-
dale, near Goulburn, 108 miles, in 32 hours, did-lie?
Well, he was a pretty good doer. But he can’t beat
my uncle Bill. The old man got -from Kigsdale to
Back Creek in 31 hours. Per boot? Well, he says
so anyway. When I mentioned that the world's record
fqr a 24 hours’ stroll was 130 miles he said that was
done on a flat track by a trained athlete and didn’t
count, anyhow. And when someone said uncle might
have abandoned his feet and ridden seven mokes in
succession he got as wild as a brumby'. By heavens,
they were made of good stuff, those old chaps!
* * * *
From “depot orders” of a Bilijim training-
camp somewhere in Britain: “Increase of strength of
Australian machine-gun depot as from 5/2/ ’ 17 ; 94
mules, 22 horses. Decrease in strength: 1 mule
having died is struck off. Absent without leave: 1
mule unaccounted for.”
* * * »
“Musketoon”: Tell “Ponto” that when a
rabbit is shot on the forehead from a head-on posi-
tion (B. 10/5/’l7), the reason a hind leg is usually
broken if the ground be hard is because he “goes
back” sufficiently when the charge gets him that the
hind leg nearest the ground snaps when the con-
tact takes place. If the shooting takes place on well
green-grassed land the grass forms a cushion for the
recoil, and the leg will not snap. I have seen this
proved in Forbes district (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“V.”: Ilock-fishers complain of the grow-
ing scarcity of snapper. Say 10 years ago the rock-
hopper was pretty sure of a good red-fish or two any
time between 4 o’clock and sundown off good feed-
ing rounds. In those clays the fish would scale up
to 181 b. or over; now the majority caught from the
shore are between 51b. and 81b. Immature snapper
(the red-bream or “cocky” of line fishers) are taken
wholesale in tidal lakes, inlets and estuaries, and
as a result the supply of fully-developed fish wanes.
In Wallaga Lake (N.S.W.) gins from the aboriginal
mission station have taken nearly 200 red-
bream in the course of an afternoon. The
“bull-tow” is another destructive factor. This
engine consists of a line buoyed with corks and
armed with from 200 to 300 baited hooks set in
the vicinity of good grounds. When in biting mood
snapper are not particular as to bait. I have taken
them freely with the tail ends of sweep, rabbit-flesh
and fish entrails; but squid, or “star-fish” (imma-
ture devil-fish), crab, mullet and mutton fish arc
the most attractive foods. With a rising tide snap-
per may be occasionally taken off rocky beaches
even with the summer sun directly overhead, but the
ps.vchological hour for the fisherman is early' morning
or late evening.
* * * *
“Ossian” : In the placid waters of Station
Creek, the rivulet ,in North Queensland upon which
the mining town of Chillagoe is found, there is a
rare kind of fish. It is palled locally the rifle fish,
deriving the name from the fact that it shoots a
pellet of water at its prey. The fly that wings its
wav at an altitude of 18 inches to 2ft. above the
surface of Station Creek falls stunned when struck
and is promptly gobbled up. The submarine pro-
vides some amusement for the reel and rod fisherman
by its vigorous bombardments, directed at his float.
Ihe curiosity is easily caught, and its pound or two
of white flpsh makes good eating. Is it known else-
in Ai-strnlia?


LEARN HOW TO DEFEND YOURSELF
-NOW!
TO-DAY
L
r
The fear of getting a thrashing prevents many a man from asserting
his manliness when the occasion for doing bo arises.
Have YOU the necessary confidence in your ability to take your own
part in the world —to assert your manliness the moment you should
be called upon to do so?
A knowledge of Boxing, such as I impart to you through my course
of Postal Instruction, will give you confidence in yourself and ability
to deliver a sound thrashing to any aggressive fellow who may cross
your path.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable move in scientific boxing'.
Write TO-DAY for my interesting- Booklet, “SCIEN-
TIFIC BOXING IN Y T OUR HOME,” which describes my
methods, terms, etc. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage.
614 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
on
-e*f*s*
\XS
s»s
:O^S
&v.
SIRIS COT
GOLD BARS
A High-grade Virginian Tobacco that
will not bite the tongue.
Specially Prepared and Packed in
Hermetically-sealed lib. and |lb. Tins,
which ensures delivery in perfect
condition.
lib. Tins, 8/-; Postage, lid.
}£lb. Tins, 4/-; Postage, Gd.
An Ideal Smoke for the Troops Abroad.
We Pack as per G.P.O. Regulations
FREE, and forward same on receipt
of address and P.N value 9/- for
lib., or 4/7 for *4 lb. tins.
A Sample 2oz. Tin forwarded any-
where Post Paid for 1/2.
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
Cigar and Cigarette Merchant,
“The Old Established House,”
19 Hunter Street, Sydney, W.S.’W.
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT-AND PROVE IT
asd
Find the Wonder Places
—the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track Go touring on
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue *' D ” with Pleasure,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
PATOW
8035
safeguard you* health
ptJXollis BroiUne's
CWorodywc
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISII-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLTC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CIIARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, SJ-, 5/-.
Made in England.
C
r.
! IUM
RIGNEY SHOES!
You will first be attracted by their smart
and dressy appearance, but the high quality
that will reveal itself after long wear will
also appeal to your sense of ECONOMY.
We illustrate a very high-grade Box Calf
Bal.
Price - - 30/-
In Choice Tan Willow
Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
"The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe 5 Parlors,”
317. George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
I
4.
IMHII
n
\
I
lIMHI
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
III! Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION —Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
fa
mm
or W^r^||
im
IS
MS
ftk;
il^
m
\\,<m\ \-
IfwIZSI;!
b\j4 \we.£an affbrtl>fo sell it
big and early
an the case pf this ::;;
icular line 1 eft Us unaffected: :”,
tWrises, iu leather. . ._•
*
'oi«
p
*%*
WMmfii
20-
The “Wearite” Derby is made with a thoroughness and attention to
detail usually associated only with high-priced Footwear—in Fine,
Fully Matured Box Calf —Leather Lined—with Stout Sole and full,
round Toe.—A Boot that combines Comfort and Capacity for Service
with Lightness and Good Looks, and a particularly Valuable Boot
for Country Use.
GIVE YOUR ORDER NOW.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. Bt
“SPECIALISTS IN OUTFITTING BY MAIL,"
244-254 FLINDERS ST. s MELBOURNE.


SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
T HE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion .engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent. 1 J
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Dally Telegraph Buildings, King Btreet, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
Why Have Grey Hair?
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless
recipe will correct it.
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few
nights with a small sponge and you 'will
soon have the pleasure of seeing the greyness
disappear. This recipe is perfectly harmless,
is neither sticky nor greasy, and has given
perfect satisfaction for man3' generations to
those in possession of the secret. — Advt. [4
•I#
MARBLE’S Safety Pocket
Axe. Practical—perfectly
balanced—tough and keen. The
blade is made of best tool steel
carefully tempered and sharpened.
? p .r in ?* hin » ed guard is
‘"'dw.th soft lead and folds evenly
Into the handle.
sdf
MARBLE’S Woodcraft
Hunting Knife has been
especially designed for
many uses: Adapted for stick-
ing, skinning or clearing un-
derbrush. A new knife com-
bining, the skill and ken of
worlds leading outers.
MARBLE’S Waterproof
Match Box sometimes
a life saver.
See these goods at your dealer.
Write for complete
illustrated catalog of
MARBLE’S “Sixty
Sporting Specialties.”
sent postpaid.
Marble Anns & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Avenue
Gladstone, Michigan, U.S. A,
Cable Address "MARBLE"
Gladstone.
Australian & New Zealand Rep'sent's
HARRY MOLDEN, Box 1349, SYDNEY
asdf
asd
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives .
Pleasant and
Easy to Take.
Cinnak
Quick «& Certain
in its Action.
NO WATER TUMBLER
OR SPOON 13 NEEDED.
Cirmak is a delightfully refresh-
ing powder with strong anti-
septic properties, which at once
relieve colds, huskiness and nasal
catarrh. Cinnak cures and pro-
tects. It can be taken anywhere
at any time**
TUBE |IB ALL CHEMISTS.
I 53
"V^rdleys
Shaving Stick
The Stick mine Glass Case
6*
f
E§§:
11
Lt mm.
L>
Have
YOU
Tried
It?
It Represents the Last Word
in scientific soap making. The
free, ointment-like lather makes
the daily shave a mere incident.
It softens the beard and lubricates
the razor, and actually soothes
the skin.
British Soap Made by
6 NEW BOND STREET. LONDON.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
BENDIGO AMALGAMATED
GOLDFIELDS no liability
CAPITAL— £500,000 divided into 2,000.000 shares of 5/- each.
The whole of the shares to be issued for cash have been underwritten.
Provisional Directors:
L. V. LANSELL, Mine Owner, Bendigo.
H. M. LEGGO, Merchant, Bendigo.
W. ANGLISS, Exporter, Melbourne.
E. 0. DYASON, Mining Engineer,
Bendigo,
FURNER *& BROWNHILL, 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
(Two Directors to be appointed.)
Bankers :
COMMONWEALTH BANK OP AUSTRALIA.
Brokers:
NEW SOUTH WALES—
VICTORIA—
AVARD & 00., 383 Collins Street, Melbourne —
and all Members of recognised Stock Exchanges
in A’ictoria.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
LAURIE & HODGETTS, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—
W. STENNARD, Stock Exchange, Hobart.
H. HAWKINS, Stock Exchange, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND —
CORRIE & CO., 127 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—
CLARKE & CO. (A. Rutter Clarke), St. George's
Terrace, Perth.
F. DOUGLAS JONES, Bendigo.
J. H. CRAIG, F.C.P.A., Bendigo.
Solicitors:
ARTHUR PHILLIPS, Melbourne.
Auditors:
A. CAPPER MOORE, F.C.P.A., Melbourne*
Provisional Managing Director:
E. C. DYASON, B.Sc., 8.M.E., Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
Legal Manager (pro tern.) and Head Office:.
J. G. STANFIELD,. F.C.P.A., Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
Melbourne Representative (pro tem.):
NORMAN PICOT (Edward Dyason Ptv. Ltd.), Equitable Building, Melbourne.
The following Companies have agreed to amalgamate
Carlisle North Garden Gully and Passby United Gold
. Mines Co. N.L.
The Catherine Reef United Claimholders Gold Mining
Co. N.L.
Clarence United Co. N.L.
The Collmann and Tacchi’s Freehold Mining Co.
•N.L.
Confidence Extended Coy. N.L.
Constellation Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Cornish United Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Derby Reef Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Garden Gully United Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Golden Age Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Golden Pyke Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Great Extended Hustlers Reef Quartz Mining Co.
N.L.
Great Northern Co. N.L.
The Hercules & Energetic Co. N.L.
The Hustlers Reef Quartz Mining and Drainage Co.
N.L.
The Ironbark Co. N.L.
The Johnson’s Reef Gold Mines Co. N.L.
*l 1 0ch ’ S r Pioneer Quartz Mining and Crushing Co. N.L.
lbe Murchison Gold Mining Co. N.L.
The New Argus Gold Finding Co. N.L
New Moon Co. N.L.
North Johnson’s Reef Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Pearl Co. I.L.
The Princess Dagmar Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Ihe Sea Gold Mining Amalgamated Co. N.L.
Sheepshead Mining Co. N.L.
South Garden United Mining Co. N L
South Virginia Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Specimen Hill United Gold Mining Co. N.L
Suffolk United Co. N.L.
United Hustlers & Redan Co. N.L.
Unity Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Victoria Consols Mining Co. N.L.
Victory & Pandora Amalgamated Co. N L.
Virginia Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Williams United Gold Mining Co. N L
Windmill Hill Gold Mining Co. N.L
“ The ‘ Centra l Area/ in which operations will he conducted, extends for a length of
five_miles v ith an average width of one m ile. As the name implies, the , Centmi~'Arm'
constitutes practically the heart of the proved productive portion of the Bendigo gold-
field, wherein it has been demonstrated that the famous ' saddle l reefs occur with more
than average frequency....”
Extract from Report by V. Pabst, Mining and Geological Surveyor.
PROSPECTUS may be obtained from the COMMONWEALTH BANK OP
AUSTRALIA: or from the COMPANY’S BROKERS and EDWARD DYASON PTY
LTD., Equitable Building, Melbourne, and Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
Subscription List closes Saturday next, the 26th.
“The Bendigo Goldfield—Resources of the Central Area.” by V. Pabst nosfc free on flhnTfea+fan m
Edward Dyason Pty. Ltd., Equitable Building Melbourne, and Commonwealth Chambers. BendiSf
Paris House, Ltd. (Sydney), which paid
£10.500 for the goodwill and fixings of a
Sydney eating-house as from March, 1911:
Deficit
Writ- (Exclusive
ten of
Profit. Dividends. Off. Goodwill).
Mar., 1912.. £195 7J p.c. = £975 Nil £7BO
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 475 Nil £2165 3420
Profit.
Mar., 1914.. 1121 Nil 4328 6627
Reserves.
Capital written off, £7OOO .. 873
Sept., 1914.. 3152 Nil 667 2858
Mar., 1915.. 1213 Nil 1194 2877
Sept., 1915.. 1072 5 p.c. = 175 566 3208
Written off Debenture Reserve 450 2758
Mar., 1916.. 154 10 p.c. = 350 300 2262
Written off Debenture Reserve 300 ) , IRQ
Written off other Reserves .. 773 J
Sept., 1916.. 196 5 p.c. = 175 1210
Mar., 1917.. 454 10 „ „ 350 1314
Having written off half the capital,
which was represented only by a shock-
ingly bad bargain, arid paid off the
last of a small 7 p.c. (formerly 8 p.c.)
debenture issue, the d : rectors should now
be able to pay good dividends so long as
they can get the right people to handle the
business for them. Originally the co. was
formed to run a cafe that young Sydney
went to when it wanted to do the thing
properly. . Subsequently it bought a hotel
license with leasehold attached; then, dis-
covering that it was easier to make money
out. of liquor than food, it let the gilded caf6
to its old boss, and nowadays merely runs
the pub. Its assets are—Leasehold and
plant, £7972; stocks, £2037; sundries,
£923. Liabilities on March 31 were £2207.
The position is thus still poor. The co.
may make money: but if it doesn’t its
assets are worth very little indeed.
*** # #
Ghoiseul Plantations, Ltd. —This is
the plantation co. that nearly takes your
breath. away. Every other Islands co. moans
interminably about the indisposition of the
native to bog in and earn money to buy
things he doesn’t want. This one tells the
other story once more:—
The year under review has been one of quiet,
steady progress, the seasons having been good and
the supply of labor adequate... .The position as to
native labor continues satisfactory, the total during
the year having increased from 1141 to 1241; the
new engagements being 342 and the time-expired
men paid off and returned to their homes being 242.
The co. was promoted by Burns, Philp and
Co. to make money (1) for itself by growing
copra, and (2) for 8., P. and Co. by pro-
viding Island trade. Britain had her own
ideas with regard to the importation of in-
dentured labor in her part of the Solomons;
Germany had hers. Apparently this co. liked
the German ideas best; anyway, it went into
the German part of the Solomons in 1912
and arranged with the Government to buy
12,500 acres. The British military authori-
ties are completing the survey; and presum-
ably the title will be all right, though how
the co. will get on if'the German gets back
to those old possessions of his the manage-
ment probably doesn’t care to think. Per-
haps it is consoling itself with the reflection
that, if the German is the old German, he
won’t care how many indentured natives are
brought over from New Guinea, or anywhere
else, so long as the islands are developed. It
was that, of course, which sent the co. to
the German part of the group in the first
place; and it was that, too, which is mainly
responsible for the fact that the co. has now
3949 acres planted and another 723 acres
wholly or partly ready for planting—far
swifter progress than the B. P. subsidiary
cos. have been able to make in the British
Solomons.
The co. spent £18,116 last vear, and made
three calls of £5 each = £15,000. In the
current year it expects to have to make four
calls = £2O per share, which will make the
£lOO shares paid to £BO and leave onlv
£20,000 to call. But the older part of the
plantation is now almost ready to give a
first harvest; so the capital will probably be
sufficient.
* * * *
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.), which
began with a. deficit of £2030, representing
preliminary expenses:—
To Reduce
Dee., Loss. D vidends. Deficit. Deficit.
„„„„ £2930
1910 .. £496 3426
Further preliminary expenses, £54 3480
1911 .. 874 • 4354
Profit.
1912 ... 43 £43 4311
1913 ..104 104 4207
1914 .. 2782 2782 1425
1915 .. 3076 5 p.c. = £1750 1326 99
Loss.
1916 .. 1092 H9l
There is something wrong in the State of
Damnark when a drinking-shop that cost
five or six thousand to build and ought to
oost a couple of hundred to pull down can
make a profit for the landlord and the
lessee of six or eight thousand a year, while
a fine residential pub like the Pacific can
only make a loss of £1092. And this paper
isn’t sure that the true loss was not more
flian £1092; it all depends unon whether
enough was written off to provide for depre-
ciation, and there are grave doubts about
that. The freeho’d and building stand in
the books at £44.280: the furniture and
plant at another £12.740. The share capital
is £35.000: £20.000 is owing on debentures
and overdraft and other liabilities have now
pushed up to £"699. as asrainst £4931 12
months ago. War, dear liquor and provi-
sions, 6 o’clock closing, an unfavorable
season and a few other things are blamed
for the bad result. Maybe somebody else
could make a profit. Anyway, there' it is
and the shareholders must be feeling sorry
for themselves.
* * « #
For the first ousrter of this vear Queens-
land produced 3637 tops of Conner—a de-
crease of 736 tons compared with the first
Quarter of 1916. Mt. Morgan turned out
1737 tons; Clonenrrv. 1573: Gladstone 177-
Herberton. 84: Mt. Perry. 29; and Etheridge
20 tons. Chillaeoe produced practically no
copner; its wolfram, bismuth, molybdenite
lead and silver output was valued at £lO 000
77W* tons of molybdenite alone being worth


. S3 I% WOJ J
■f . . / ' S' „y v:? if /J* s'
OJPDW
d
11
m
mm
%SSSS2
■
ss®
Km
m
M
p
*sk
at
m
ae.
mi
m
p-
Slti
m
%
hesss.'
Css?
\4
: x-'
&
Hih
■:
k
m
<
m
V
m
m
mi
VS
m
Kxa
gimmtgzZif’&s
&
m
Ik^'X
’ IfhiiUl X A
V
zi/
Z'%M
Jl
$A
Vs
fe?s§
Mi
m
i
mm
' V
■v..-.
VI
n <
iv
-
"V®* I
ws
/
p
'y
M
//
if l
•••-' •• v,
Ni-
-29
4fc
:m
ISA
_~^-
kV
\\
X;.V
u
I. K /
V
p
:4 \
fMI
'T'HIS charming selection—perhaps not intrinsically a very
great composition —has spread the sweetness of its
haunting strains over the whole world. It possesses a depth
of feeling so elusive that frequently the finer effects are
lost. In its execution the expression is its all.
With a Beale Player-piano you will
find that it is not at all hard to play
music with characteristics similar to
the “Barcarolle.” It is an instrument
essentially responsive to one’s best
musical thoughts, and is so sympa-
thetic that complete, soul-satisfying
rendition becomes almost instinctive.
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
o
e
Factories:
41.47 TRAFALGAR STREET.
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
And al Bathurst, Orange. Lismore. Newcastle. Goulburn. Wagga. Victoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart.
Maples, Launceston South Australia : John Evans Ltd. Adelaide. Queensland: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane. Kent Street. Maryborough.
Flinders Street, Townsville Rockhampton, Sydney Street, Mackay.- Cairns


FISHERS HHOSPHERINE
f
J y
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
Is appreciated by
All Who Use It
11 Its Merit in Cases of B
Nervousness, Neuralgia,
Indigestion, Acidity,
Rheumatism, Backache and
Headache is proved by the
GRATEFUL TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Dear Sits,—ln a very few words—though volumes
may he written—l wish to praise your wonderful
rhosphei'oie. I*or nervous headaches and indigestion
• find it a valuable remedy and most excellent for
rheumatism, (Mrs.) L. Middleton
This preparation has been manufactured by Fisher & Co. for
the past forty year*.
/ ALL CHEMISTS AND BTORES
P er bottle, four times the quantity
CHEMISTS*
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
2e
F. 137. P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times ai
and powerful a
3 efficient
s the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the nr.ger to slut the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness
Call and test it free , or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 OEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
yfUSTOALIAN =====»
" ==■ PRODUCTS
57teNAVY
PICKLES
ThatViyuant
with the
Friufi/FlaiJour
vw»r-0
m
m
S&Ho
m
wm
Util
1^
o ,T i*Tj.nsH err
t ■s'’ „ 0
J MRRY^
Nw^fYJV.3.w-* ,
S'#
- For -
Quality
Unequalled
YUM-Yllff
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
d b\j
j parity & C2
Food Specialists Sydney
fa
BELLEVUE
The only Hotel
overlooking
HOTEL, the BetanlssLGar^gjLs,.
This is Brisbang’s leading HotSffßio wP
publicly acknowledged to be
comfortable- Hotel in. Australiar^!t> Is' "Tr.'iltef~thp
personal 'supervision ’ of the owner, A. FINNIC AN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
nnmllilkll*
MHlWWnilfc
mm
IF
The BULLETIN”
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The"BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
The two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Pigskin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather, points, long flans and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle.
Freight Free for Cash to Any Port or Rail-
way Station in N.S.W. For 3s. 6d. extra
for easing we will send Freight Free to anv
direct port in Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia, N.Z. or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 11/6, SADDLECLOTH 6 6.
BREASTPLATE 8 -
If Ordered with Saddle. Otherwise is. each
Extra for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther S Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS
393 George Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such dreams of boots, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
trated.
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from, all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all .safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly, one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6476
! 0
n
; *0
IB
Ilf 5
i
s®
•e
None genuine unles--
stamped ‘‘Bostock.”
828
See that the name “Bostock”
is stamped on the soles.
THE SIGN Of
AGOOD SHINE
DRY CLEAN YOUR WHITE AND COLORED FOOTWEAR
Ladies, dry clean your canvas and suede shoes and your cloth-topped boots with
BOSTOCR’S DRY CLEANER.
It is easy, quick, lasting and satisfactory.
Colors: White, Black, Brown, Champagne, Buff, Light and
Dark Grey, and Khaki. PRICE 6d.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effective and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market Street,
SYDNEY; or A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, HOBART.
aiff
i
V,
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile, character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the SISS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Wellwisher: Are you auotlier of his press
agents ? If you had signed your name it would
have saved the trouble of asking you... .Casey: “The
Tale of a Prime Minister” is nothing to one we
could tell y0u.... .1 .C.: Well, have a look at it
yourself: “Like the proverbial Portuguese Army, the
personnel of the Staff here is composed of all Officers
and Non-C'oms., in full enjoyment of the financial
advantages pertaining thereto, and although the most
of them are young men, fit and able to keep their
end up in the trenches, they are perfectly content
to fondle the domesticated bird at home rather than
go in search of the bloke whose roost is to be found
only on the barbed-wire entanglements at the Front
in the hope of dealing with his Majesty and- the
shortage of bulk wheat”. . .-. B.W.R. : Try it on the
Women's Journal. .. .Yorkshire: " Your information
that The Bulletin is subsidised by the Church of
Home has thrown the Religious Editor back to his
old weakness. You should be careful. .. .971: “The
main item in a defence policy is to have a gun of
some sort, bricks and shanghais being practically
not used at all in modern warfare.” Quite right.
Better write to Senator Pearce and ask him some
questions about the small-arms factory at Lithgow.
....Gun Sun: There’s been a kick —several, in fact
—but it hasn’t altered the position.... Harry J.:
That yarn's been told before. Good luck, anyway.
... .No. 5564 : Thanks for clip. Not worth bothering
about.... Break o’ Day: Run and play....
Action: Thank you. .. .D.A.M. (dirtily blotted):
Your “saffic lyre” won’t twang here till you
improve your verse, your temper and your man-
ners. .. .Quisan: There’s a story, but it’s spoiled in
the telling. .. .Everybody: Write your name and
address on the MS. itself. Y covering letter may
go astray; and there is no need for one, anyhow....
It.R.: Some skill in phrasing; but thought thin and
metre hopeless... .Mereal: You say it is “written to
calm.young minds.” All right; we’ll try it on them:
Peace the haven of bliss I .
Peace, the ever-crowning glory.
Peace is the thing we are apt to miss;
Peace makes us strong and hoary.
Peace keeps us young and bright;
Peace makes our nature sweet and mild;
Peace teaches wrong from right;
Peace keeps our thoughts from running wild.
Peace is what we all desire;
Peace comes to all that wish it;
Peace knows no hate, nor fire,
Peace be with you (as I prophet).
~ . .E.L.S.: Death yarn not well enough done....
D.C.: “Cup Day Incident” won’t do, but we’ve seen
many a worse first attempt. Try again. ... Dinkum
Oil: You borrow another man’s method and the
names of his characters and hash them into bad
verse... .E.G.: “Logan’s Mate” forces the rhymes and
phrasing rather severely.... Buyar: “Fickleness” is a
great mystery.... Mario: Good idea, but wanted dif-
ferent treatment J.H.H.: Your “Reformed Re-
former” is dull reading... .H. 8.: Jew’s harp song
is very lame... .E.G.M.: It’s pretty bad even for a
first attempt.... W.H.: You need to mend your
grammar and get a respect for rhyme. You send
46 lines with only three rhymes to the lot. ...W.D.:
“America” reels out of step at the second line....
A.J.S.: Poor stuff.... W.H. L.: Did you saw the
verse out? C.L.M.: Not our style. The “little,
dainty, fair-eornplexioned lady” is a bit over the
(dds, anyhow. .. ,H.: Not up A.8.C.: N 0....
V.F.K.: How do you contrive to beat it so thin?. .. .
’lea Tree: You write, “Proud maid, I wonder how
you quite forgotten,” and “And then we me....Ah,
how my heart does hunger.” Try your own hand
at criticism on a verse like this:—
Tall cow asle in tangled meadow grasses,
Get up and heart the nearest willow tree.
Lest in this mellow vale of cats and asses
We me a do that ho to mil a be.
T.MeC.: The poor little thing fluttered to
death with a sigh for its own feebleness.
... .Culkah: Not much story and very crude
handling. .. .Dublfe: Nothing to criticise in “Swan
Song.” It is merely a few lines of affected
and uninteresting prose Pakeha: You can’t
write English... .J.S.M.: Doesn’t strike u 5....
P.J.C.: “Mates’ has some interest, but not enough.
....Nomad: Fair verse, but not enough in it....
F.A.W.: No cheer in them C.C.D.: “Closed Down”
too rugged. .. . J.S.: The insanitary thing might have
been amusing if you had had the skill to make it
mean anything. .. .Henry IX.: Dismal preachment in
stiff artificial verse, with commonplace tags to every
stanza.... Lela: Verse very dull and bumpy; prose
won t work. . . . A.L.T Poor verse and very doubtful
philosophy. .. .H.C.S. : Net interesting enough for a
shocking example,...M.C.: The man who rhymes
“awed” with “bored” must have an ear like a broken
wheelbarrow M.M.: Your “Fairy Garden” sounds
like a Sunday-school picnic gone wrong.... S.L.:
There’s a fine pathos in. it:—
A starving woman sat
Upon the pavement htone;
And ragged were her. cl :thes,
And she was skin ai:d bone !
A drunkard man came then,
And waved his arms about
“Lor’ blirne! Here’s my wife!
Oh, Missus, come and shout.!’’
But then came up the “Cop,”
And grabbed him by the neck;
And now lie’s doing quod ;
No more a dreadful wreck !
..■..Disgruntled: Dreary lamentation rejected....
F.E.M.: Those .things have been done so often that
only a miracle of - handling can make them worth
while.... Gosling: No use. Why do you cramp your'
handwriting in that insane way? Othello:
Doesn’t work. Even nonsense must be convincing.
....lan Scott: Some distance to go yet. Sing;
don’t preach. .. . A.H.: Well, suppose you have all
that historical ability, couldn’t you have contrived
in four closely-written pages to state one point
for the defence? Ethnologists have shown that a
...face of savages- from Germany was in prehistoric
times. the most venomous thing in Europe; you
merely' re-assert our contention that it has gone on
being so during historical times.... Spencerian: Read
the biography.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Mac: Too stiff and draughtboardy... .H.G.: They
-look. like, figures carved out of stone W.D.: Beauti-
fully .flat.. . . A.E.S.: No J.R.T.: Take back your
shadows. .. . Hew: The lady needs-rebuilding S.E.:
Woman in the background resembles a Chinese panto.
dame... .P;d. : Creaky joke G.J.M.J.: You can’t
draw much. .. .C.P.: Who is it supposed to be?
(Don’t tell us! We don’t really want to know.).


'
S9HH
HHHI
MMMH
m
m : I 1
V:' '
:
77
llllf!
1 hmbbSbß
1
B
gj c;';v
||g
#l3
HNS
sSSisßaisi
n^i
7; :
m
mmm
E
■
1 :V:"
r
' . I sv
8-
Ip
81
( . %
: l
t
;
.'• 'V'
I%# I I
JR J
V'c4 v
V jv*v
ns
,!
■ ■
: ; 3''3 :
V 8
-
ll
:
<Js»
m
H
* «
■
1
fSS
: :
11H1
pil
188 ■.
I
#. 3
■I ■
■V--
-
ww»lii
,'-'
sill
■ i
■1:
I
■
7 77
77
a m
I
llfjl
SU : 37.7';";. '77:73.7: 1
--■■■: 7 .
IW
7
i *\ ' '-W y
ipt ■ T3&* ' '. ‘v*"m
... ■ ■■■■•■
’> 1
;'■ ■
'.7. 8
* ■■■■■■■■■■'■"■ '■■■'■'■■
■ 1 ' ',''"'B' ■’ j? , ■ "v .. ’ ~*M*i
.».,,, - ■ ; Is®
§.
■
;; 7:'.7-.:
.77.77.; ;:;;;g77.';, 7.7
7 ~„■. ■■■ :
- 7.:..'.
.
■»
/ : S?X‘Wm
I
ii
lilpi
7
■
HR
777777: .3
: 7
■’#—B ; v
7-7,7;
\
; A
\ ,
V '
v ;
■« J
V :
v.
■SI
I !
3 ■
i 1
18
l 7
'K-7.
;
7
;7..
1
-:-'8 7777.8-
■H
A New Synthetic Substance
For the Soles of Boots and Shoes
Will outlast two pairs of Leather Soles.
Not Rubber. Not Leather. Not Rubberised Leather.
It is Neolin. An Entirely New Substance.
Neolin was born of necessity, the mother of
invention.
Never was tho need of the world so great
for something better than leather for the
soles of shoes.
You know how shoe prices have soared in
the past five years.
And you may have heard how shoe manu-
facturers have had to fight —especially since
the motor car came —for their share of the
world’s supply of choice hides.
You will understand, then, why manufac-
turers have welcomed Neolin wdth open arms.
As has always happened when an economic
pressure becomes almost too hard to bear,
science came to the rescue with a new syn-
thetic substance —better than leather for the
soles of shoes.
Its name is Neolin, and it comes to fill an
old want in a new and a better way.
Shoe manufacturers, through their salesmen,
are telling the Neolin story now to shoe
dealers all over Australia.
They are taking orders for the season to
come.
They are endorsing Neolin wholeheartedly
and with enthusiasm.
And why should they not ?
There is nothing they could say of the
choicest leather that they are not justified in
saying with added emphasis of Neolin.
And Neolin has advantages and virtues all
its own.
If it were merely as good as good leather,
that would be enough to make it noteworthy
—because the supply is inexhaustible.
But imagine a substance which is not rubber,
which is not leather, but which is better
than rubber, better than leather, and which
is waterproof as well.
That is Neolin —a watertight shoe sole that
is also light and flexible—that gives a glove-
fitting sensation to the sole of the foot even
when the shoe is new.
We are entrusting the introduction of Neolin
to the shoe manufacturers and dealers of
Australasia.
Shoes fitted with these fine soles will come
to you through your regular trade channels.
The task of soling the shoes in Six Austra-
lian States is too vast to be accomplished in
any other way.
These announcements are merely to acquaint
you with the great tasks of distribution which
these manufacturers and dealers have under-
taken.
All we ask of you is that you will show your
goodwill by mentioning to your dealer the
interest you must feel in Neolin, and make
personal investigation by inspecting a pair
of Neolin-soled boots or shoes.
Every Neolin Sole and Half-sole is stamped Neolin. To be sure of getting the genuine Heolin, mark that mark-stamp it on your memory.
Fleolin
Better than Leath'
the trade symbol and registered name of a changeless quality product of Goodyear now obtainable from
The Goodyear Tyre 8 Rubber Co. of Australasia Ltd.
231
6
103
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
CHESSER STREET, ADELAIDE. S. A.
ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH, w.A.
122 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
76.78 MURRAY STREET, HOBART, TAS,


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN D,
I 'iu DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Liiae. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
i Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.—City 4280,
4287,
4810.
4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SIDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BtJNDABERC
*ROCKHAMPTON
! (Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE •
CAIRNS
CQOKTOAVN
jand other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 26.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May
Leaves Sydney, June 2.
BURAYAH (Cargo only).
Leaves Melbourne, June
Leaves Sydney, June 9.
MELBOURNE
: for
S.A. ami W.A. |>ori:s)
only.
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Reaves Sydney, June 2.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Ranking, Public Companies. £ Ci
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
authorised capital ..
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Co
RESERVE FUND
£2,000,000
£1,198,679
£95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George Sc King Streets, S.vdnc.v.
LONDON OFFICE: 3”ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Ma uk Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. SiiV,' Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarivood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Rysaght, Esq. ; George F.
loiiaiak, Esq.; lion. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughput the Australian Commonwealth
New and all the principal towns of the
M orlc.. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: TIIOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon
Kt - (Deputy Chairman) |
WiLLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, IC.C.M.G.: Hon A J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
. Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
* .agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capitol £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0 ,
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IMS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, K-n •
- J as. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [united.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq, , . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox Esq
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St„ SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)et» Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa Great
TVSand Jreland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
at I merest tor
fixed periods, and
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
IHE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
it ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
vAILW AY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (X.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.
yy
A BENEFICIAL. SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An l nrivalled Ho’ day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
sdf
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth "Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers-
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ~ 9 Bridge Street,
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
asdf
£3,705,320
£2,725,000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Directors :
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosber.v, M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, AI.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A."G. Milson, Esq. ; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle St, E.C
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and. drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
■T. RTTSSELL FRENCH, General Manager. '
Coinmomvcaltl#4Jßank ° ( Hustralta
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
fo? e a "n General Banking: Business principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
mils negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Ranking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all B
2600 f
ranches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
n Australia and Papua.
Interest at 9°/
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMBS KELL, Deputy Gorernor June, 1918 DENISOX MILLER. Gorernor
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE!
COMPANY Ltd. j
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances effected on ail classes of
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
... " Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIG 11. General Manager.
AVON
iTL TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
FOR
'QUICK RESULTS"
USE
| (dPILLARINE
You need never doubt the efficacy
of CAPILLARINE at a Moustache-
producer. It has produced the
desired result with thousands.
Why not with you ?
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 SY c^ e st -
Established over SO years,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
PARINGA, Saturday, May 2C.
MORIALTA, Saturday, June 2.
IiUPARA, Saturday, June 9.
Transhipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILIi & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Hud dart Parker Line.
Magnificent Past Passenger Steamships
"Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
“ Wcstralia,”
All of' Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS
HOBAUT AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOU 1) COMPORT
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C AN A D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:—OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modem Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHAItN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and YVOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, a 6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10.0C0 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
homo papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


There’s life-long interest in
KODAK Pictures
There is only one way to keep a
perfect record of your holidays,
pastimes, outings and home life
and that is by taking Kodak
pictures.
Kodak Photography is camera-
work with the bother left out; it is
all pleasure—from beginning to
end-
You can iearn to use a Kodak in half an hour —and
prices are from 30/'= to £l5/2/-
The No. 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is extremely
popular for many reasons. It is splendid for portraits,
views, groups, etc. Takes pictures 5|- x inches.
Price £5/10/=
Ask for YOUR copy of a Kodak booklet.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
■ioO-asa Queen Street. Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street. Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
neth street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
”. lle - Denham Street, Rockhampton. 316 Argent Street. Broken Hill.
Bixon Street, also Corner Eambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
S Borne Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
:
■
j
!l| s ;§§fj§| l§g
iiSi
O
«
H
“ Slender Women prefer
Gossard Corsets.
WE know from millions of corset sales that slender women have corset prob-
lems. Until we decided to design special models for slender figures, these
women had no choice. They were fitted to heavily-boned corsets. The
only redeeming feature of these corsets was their size. They came in 18, 19, 20
and up small enough, but that was all.
One proof of the unusual recognition given Gossard’s is the army of moving-picture
stars who wear them.
Over fifty special Gossard models are yours to choose from if you have a slender
figure.
asd
Ideal Tall and Short
Slender Figures
Both of these figures require corsets that
have free hips, and in which the wearer is
never conscious of her corset. The corset
must be corrective, yet always comfortable.
We have models in batiste material which
give smooth hip lines and a graceful waist
line. Slender figures find Gossard’s perfect
because the boning is light and each model
is so designed that a graceful side silhouette
is possible.
An expert corsetiere. who understands your
figure requirements, will deem it a pleasure
to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women of Australia
and New Zealand by
Allan & Stark, Ltd..
Brisbane, Australia.
J. Ballantyne & Co.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Stafford Street, Timaru, N.Z.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd.,
298-312 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
Australia.
Harry Davie? Co..
Ballarat, Australia.
Drapery & General Importing Co. of
New Zealand, Ltd.,
Lyttelton, N.Z.
Wellington, N.Z.
Farmer & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Australia.
James Marshall & Co.,
Adelaide, Australia.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd.,
Queen Street. Auckland, N.Z.
Ideal
Short Slender
Figure.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd.,
King and George Streets, Sydney, Australia.
Ideal
Tall Slender
Figure.
fa
sdf


ZANETIC Pendnplieating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. f 2
USE PINE TAR FOR COUGHS AND
COLDS.
A SPECIALIST’S ADVICE.
Chronic coughs, catarrh, throat and
bronchial troubles that resist all ordinary
remedies usually yield at once to the sooth-
ing, healing and stengthening influence of
the medicinal properties contained in tar
and pine. All these properties, as well as
several other valuable remedial agents, are
found in a syrup made by dissolving half a
pound of sugar in half a pint of hot water,
and then adding 2oz. of ordinary Utrate of
tar. Stir thoroughly, pour into a pint
bottle, and, when cool, it is ready for use.
One or two teaspoonfuls of this simple and
inexpensive cough syrup will quickly over-
come a bad cough, and that annoying tick-
ling in the throat will disappear almost
instantly. Children should take from a
quarter to half of the above quantities sev-
eral times a day. The fact that titrate ' of
tar is entirely free from opium, morphine,
cocaine, heroin or other poisonous habit-
forming drugs to which scientists and
physicians so strongly object, is doubtless
one of the reasons why its use is becoming
almost universal. — Advt.
THE
CHANDLER
SIX
Goes 6725 Miles Over Bad
Roads Without Costing
Penny for Repairs!
PRICE
£490.
“I heard a really remarkable story recently about
a really remarkable performance of an equally remark-
able car,” writes an Atlanta (Georgia) man. “Dr.
J. W. Livingston, of New York City, told me the
story. I refer to Dr. Livingston as being from New
York City, when, as a matter of fact, the doctor
simply has his headquarters in the Big Village and
trots from one corner of these old United States to
the other, and sometimes, if the notion strikes him,
he ambles up into Canada for a change.
“The last time Dr. Livingston passed through
Atlanta he purchased a brand-new Chandler Six.
Then the travelling bee got into his bonnet and he
burned the trail from here to Canada. But I am
getting ahead of my story, and I’ll let Dr. Livingston
tell it. I quote him accurately, I think, but I can-
no make it so entertaining because I cannot draw
the vivid picture that he did in his pleasantly charac-
teristic manner. The doctor said
“ ‘I left Atlanta in my new Chandler and travelled
through the Virginia mountains to Washington, D.C.
“ ‘From Washington I went to New York and up
through the New England States. Business called
me back to New York, and I spent a day there and
left immediately for Buffalo. From there I went to
Hamilton, Ont. Then I went to Montreal, thence to
Quebec, to the Thousand Islands. Upon my arrival
there I returned bv exactly the same route to Atlanta,
and when I rolled'into the Southern Saxon garage my
speedometer registered 6725 miles, and I hadn’t spent
a penny on the car except for gasoline and oil.
“ ‘lf that isn’t a remarkable record I never heard
of one. I have owned more costly cars than the
Chandler, but I have never owned a better one. I
wouldn’t sell my Chandler for $lO,OOO if I thought I
couldn’t buy another one.’ ”
MARCUS CLARK <& CO. LTD..
SOLE AGENTS.
GARAGE, and SHOWROOMS
Tel. 88 62.
162 Castlereag'h Street, SYDNEY.
IN BANANA LAND
“Cubbie”: Legislative Councillors and
their friends have been offering up incense
for their escape from obliteration and for
the return of Phewsion. On Sunday there
was a thanksgiving service in one of the
city churches aud a public meeting was also
held to gloat over “the triumph of loyalty.”
When Brentnall, M.L.C., was pouring out
praise to Providence for the defeat of the
Labor party at the Federal elections he
omitted to explain why Labor had been
allowed to win the Rockhampton by-election
on May 12. Perhaps the Phews crowd had
been found out by Providence during the
week.
Some day a Brisbane lawyer who knows
his job will incite a client to purchase some
local icecream, aud to then serve the __man
behind the counter with a claim for £17,000
damages on account of damage done. to the
interior. When a health-inspector visited a
few shops the other day he got helpings of
alleged cream which on examination proved,
in five cases, to be inhabited by micro-organ-
isms ranging in number from 9,450,000 per
cubic centimetre to 51,975,000. What hap-
pens to anyone who swallows 51,975.000 of
these animals was not explained, but the
Beak said he was going to put down the
practice of selling zoological collections
wrapped in frozen liquid, so he handed out
fines of £lO and £2O. The real cure for the
dirty restaurant and the cream adulterated
with microbes is the cancelled license.
A promising scholastic and athletic career
has been cut short by the death on active
service of Alex. Noble, of Paddington, Bris-
bane. A local Grammar School boy. and a
student in science at Queensland ’Varsity,
Noble was 21 when he climbed on to a
limber of the Field Artillery two years ago.
lie could bend an oar, too, and splashed for
Queensland in an inter-State eight.
“P.”: David Hardie, M.D., lectured the
Presbyterian Assembly recently on 'The Pre-
vention of Venereal Diseases.” Said he: —
To prevent the spread of the disease there should
be education, both from a moral and public health
point of view. In giving instruction, distinction
should be made between those who had reached the
age of adolescence and those who had not done so.
As to the suggestion that a certificate of good
health should be required before parties were allowed
to be married it did not follow that the contractors
would remain clean after marriage. ... It was for the
Presbyterian Church L • decide whether it was advis-
able to insist on deni*: ding a clean certificate before
performing the maru.cge contract, but in view of the
fact that Queensland had such, a splendid radical Act
he thought it uould he a mistake for the clergy to
insist on such a certificate.
Although Queensland has such a “splendid
radical Act,” it is none the less notorious
AFTER THE SONG.
THE SINGING GUEST ( pompously) : “I always spend the afternoon in bed when
I'm going to sing at night.”
WEARIED CLUBMAN: “Well, I suppose you need it. You have to listen to yourself like
the rest of us.”
that Brisbane in the last two years has
simply reeked with disease. Putting a
Bill through Parliament and administering it
are two very different matters. In my opinion
if the churches demanded clean health-certifi-
cates before perform'ng the marriage cere-
mony it would be to their eternal credit; but,
as a matter of fact, this is not a matter for
the Church at all, but for the State, No
marriage license should be issued by the
Registrar without the previous production of
clean certificates. Better infinitely the
matrimonial disqualification of a few. hun-
dred infected persons than the production of
crops of tainted weaklings.
The Lowland Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bird-bright were my eyes with watching, as
beseemed a mountain-dweller,
Where the besom of the ice wind scours the
clefts, a mist-expeller,
Wise was I in wide earth places, chinks in
rocks a ml eagles’ nes ts;
And the canny Alpine mosses clinging to the
granites’ crests.
Half the world my window showed me, past
the pines in columns gloomy,
Stunted firs the heights have mastered, aud
a plainland far and roomy.
Over there a glittering hamlet; over there a
rimless sea,
Till the woman left the lowland and came up
the hills to me.
Iu her eyes were rushy meadows, kine
among the dusky grasses;
Weeds in midstreams greenly swaying, where
a swallow’s shadow passes,
On her bosom ruddy earthstains, in her
hands a valley rose ;
On her lips a store of perfumes, garnered
where the lily grows.
Slow she moved, like cloud at morning, when
the south wind idly dreams,
And her presence breathed of woodlands and
of diowsy sunlit streams,
Not of edelweiss nor gentian, strangers of
the upper air,
But of violets damp in corners; pools set
round with maidenhair;
Dancing lights on cabin windows, glow-
worms burning in the dark ;
Treading down the crackling needles, 'twixt
the pine boles, brown and stark,
Moving like a doomed to-morrow from the
earth-valves and the lea;
With a red rose in her fingers she came up
the hills to me.
For a space we spoke of valleys, for she liked
my mountain eyes.
And I set within her fillet one pale bloom of
edelweiss,
And I drank of earth-bees’ honey in the
hiving of her lips ;
Towns we talked instead of mountains, and
instead of oceans, ships ;
But the upper air grew chilly, and she
shivered from my breast,
With my token on her forehead, down
towards the vale she prest.
God has set a moon this evening like a ghost
between the trees.
And the plain is white and splendid, out
towards the calling seas,
And the light of Heaven’s garden through
its golden oriels flows ;
But my heart is valley-tethered to the
whisper of a rose!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 19, 1917.
My Dear Thabgoaiindah, —
The business of filling the vacancies in the
Legislative Council is Keeping a number of
people in the partial limeiigut. A newspaper
proprietor and a defeated Labor feenator
are said to be favorites; and every mail
brings the Premier so much correspondence
on the subject that the alleged paper famine
appears to be a myth. In the meantime the
cultivation of flowing beards is a thriving
industry, for no hairless jaw a chance
to wag in our ancient House of Whiskers.
A movement has been started to provide
a home for discharged wounded soldiers who
have left hospital before being completely
cured. The notion is a good one; but as
the public started with enthusiasm some
months ago to get a Returned Soldiers and
Sailors’ Residential Club, it might be well to
finish one thiug before getting on to another.
A site has been bought for the club, the
foundation stone is to be laid on May 24
and about £5OOO is wanted in order to hand
the show over free of debt. In the circum-
stances the home for the nearly-cured might
wait.
Mrs. J. Muntz Adams, sole female in-
cluded among the artists who received com-
missions to paint portraits of notables of
the Australian Parliament has been
appointed chief instructor at the Art
School of the Central Technical College. She
was trained at the Melbourne Gallery School,
studied under Julian and Delacluse in Paris
and Herkomer in London. An exhibition
of her work is on view at the Technical
College.
The committee of the 31st Battalion Com-
forts Fund entertained Mrs. Toll (wife of
Colonel Toll, D. 5.0.) at a farewell tea in
the Botanic Gardens yesterday afternoon.
The lady left amid many regretful goodbyes
and a keepsake.
Pte. Bruce MacGregor, of the A.A.M.C.,
is back in Brisbane after 2\ years of active
service. Before donning the uniform be
pushed a pen on the Daily Mail. In the
true Anzac way be will say nothing about
himself, but is eloquent over the doings of
others.
Sara Allgood o’ my Heart was at home
at the rooms of the Allies’ Babies’ Clothing
Society yesterday morning. The committee
presented her with a beautiful basket of
roses laced with green ribbons; and Mike,
the Irish terrier, was decorated with an
emerald bow. Each guest brought along a
small shirt, a pair of bootees or some other
infant garment to be sent later on to little
refugees; and cash also materialised.
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, our own stately
soprano, who was to have been heard at
the Musical Union concert on May 29, has
decided not to sing again in public until the
war finishes. Like many a mother she puts
a good face on things, but the strain of the
long anxiety is beginning to tell.
Died on May 11. Frederick Holmes
a’Court, son of the late Lord Hytesbury. As
a young man he held a commission in a foot
regiment; but for about 40 years he was a
resident of Queensland, where he worked as
a miner in the North and afterwards settled
down to the simple life near Mt. Chalmers.
His brother, C. G. Holmes a’Court, is clerk
of the legislative Assembly.
A massive bronze honor-board containing
the names of 305 past and present scholars
of the Toowoomba Grammar School has just
been erected in front of the Brisbane Post
Office. But why at Brisbane Post Office?
Hasn’t Toowoomba a prior right to the
bronze tablet containing the names of
Toowoomba boys?
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Exit, at close on 80 years, Ben 11. Burton,
of Clayfield (Brisbane), formerly a well-
known officer of the State Railway Depart-
ment. The service was in its babyhood when
Burton started as foreman of works at
.Tondaryan in ’6B, rising to traffic-inspector
a few years later. After a spell in another
service he went on the rails again in ’95
as chief traffic-inspector, a job which he held
until he retired about nine years ago. A
son is in the Chinese railway service.
Toowoomba is mourning the passing of
two of its best-known townsmen: Fred
Borton, sen., one of the pioneers of the
Darling Downs, who had managed to survive
the fervor of the Queensland sun to the
brief age of 92; and Walter Pengally, an
ex-Maorilander, who roamed a lot before
settling in the Downs city.
“Billy Blue”: Re William Knox D’Arcy,
the lucky lawyer -of Rockhampton, who has
gone t’other side at 68. He came to Queens-
land as a youth in 1866, was articled and
admitted to the “lower” profession, and put
up his sign in Rockhampton. When the
Morgans struck gold they engaged young
D’Arcy to find the cash to work their mine.
He found £5OO, and a friend found another
monkey. The Morgans sold out, but D’Arcy
hung on to his quarter-share in the mountain
of gold, and will no doubt pan out a million-
aire. His son Frank married one of the
Raring girls, a family who has at its head
Lord Ashburton.


Illjtl
■ v<-
fc ■‘sfsi-.-m i
« -
:
■■■ -
mm
f »■■;
las
I few
W 8
jrfß
. ■■■'"
tfi
m
1
•'* - V
*
I m
§ss
Copyright Watson’s No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Cadorna is one of a new series of drawings specially executed
for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely free from
advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set of \2 will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or \7 penny
(Commonwealth) stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a
set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
foa£t>ari/>
-Jgt"
Mia*
**• • UualiU (.«»•»♦•
****** TVaJricm
”**“ DwrulPO
mmzma.
m
u
WtmiZi


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
SAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug- Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents :
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
George
St. Kiida,
HOTEL..
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
asdf
ABBEY
SHOES
will give you the greatest amount
of satisfaction in COMFORT,
LONG SERVICE and APPEAR-
ANCE. They are made in stylish
and correct models for all occasions.
You are assured absolute perfection
of fit, because all our shoes are
made in half- and full-sizes, and
in narrow, medium, and wide fit-
tings.
We illustrate a Special Golf Shoe
in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 37/6
Light Soles, 35/-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will hare
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited
THE FORTY-EIGHTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Forty-eighth Ordinary General Meeting, held at the Bank, 126
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at noon on Monday, 30th April, 1917.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Forty-eighth Report, with a Balance-Sheet and
Statement of Profit and Loss for the Half-year ended 31st March, 1917, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, bonus to staff, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on
bills current, tax on note circulation, income taxes, land taxes and making provision for bad and
doubtful debts, the net profit amounted to .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £27,024 2 9
Brought forward from 30th September, 1916 .. . . .. . . . . - ■ 5,483 12 2
£32,507 14 11
Your Directors propose to pay out of the half-yearly profits the following dividend: —
On Preference Shares at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum . . . . ■ .. £10,641 10 9
On Ordinary Shares at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum . . . . .. . • 4,733 5 6
The balance of the half-year's profits they recommend to be applied as follows: —
To Reserve Fund (making it £280,000). . .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,000 0 0
~ Officers’ Provident Fund .. . . . . . . . . . . .. .. 1,000 0 0
„ Increase amount at credit of Profit and Loss Account by £649 6s. 6d.,
making it .. .. .. .. .. . - -. . • • • ■ • 6,132 18 8
£32,507 14 11
The Directors desire to place on record their regret at the death of Mr. Selby Paxton, which
occurred on the 20th November last, after an illness of brief duration, and to express their appreciation
of the sterling service he rendered to the Bank with his ability and energy during the long period he so
ably occupied the position of general manager.
Mr. James Wilson, the assistant general manager, has been appointed by the Board to succeed the
late Mr. Paxton as general manager.
Owing to ill-health, Mr. J. C. Duigan, one of the auditors, was unable to act this half-year. The
Balance-Sheet is therefore signed by his co-auditor, Mr. John Bishop, only.
The dividend will be payable at the head office on and after the Ist May, and at the branches on
receipt of advice.
The Forty-eighth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will he held at the head office of the
Company, 126 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne, on Monday, the 30th day of April, 1917, at noon.
Bv order of the Board,
Melbourne, 20th April, 1917.
J. WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
l or the Half-year ending 31st March, 1917 (Including London Office to 28th February, 1917).
Dr.
To Capital Paid-up, viz.:—
D 1,184 Preference
Shares, paid in
cash to £9/15/-
Per share ...£304,011 0 0
77,278 Ordinary
Shares of £4/5/-
eaoh paid in
cash to £l/15'-
per share .. 135,236 10 0
£439,280 10 0
To Reserve Fund 280,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss 22,507 14 11
£741,788 4 11
To notes in circulation .. .. 18,235 0 0
To bills in circulation .. .. 156,363 19 5
To balances due to other banks. . 29 19 3
To Government Deposits—
Sot bearing in-
terest, £52,232
9/10; bearing
interest,
£459,452/8/9 £511,684 18 7
To other Deposits,
Rebate, and in-
terest accrued—
Not bearing
interest,
£1,730,128/4/6 ;
bearing interest,
£2,074,933/14/8 3,805,061 19 2
4,316,746 17 9
£5,233,164 1 4
To Contingent Lia-
bilities, as per
contra .. .. £141,144 16 11
Cr.
By Coin, Bullion,
Australian notes,
and cash at
bankers ..£1,335.408 7 7
By British War
Loan Debentures
at £95 per cent.,
£135,386/17/6 ;by
Commonwealth of
Australia W a r
Loan Debentures,
Victoria Govern-
ment Stock and
Debentures, Metro-
politan Board of
Works and Muni-
cipal Debentures,
£101,319/13/4.. 236,706 10 10
By Bills and Re-
mittances in tran-
situ and in Lon-
don .. .. 404,328 11 9
By notes and bills
of other banks .. 3,313 0 9
By balances due
from other banks 34,676 6 9
By stamps .. 1,448 9 6
By real estate, consisting of —-
Bank premises
Other real estate
By bills discounted, and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts ..
By liabilities of
customers and
others in respect
of contingent lia-
bilities, as per
contra .. £141,144 16 11
£2,013,941 7 2
188,610 9 1
7,585 0 0
3,023,027 5 1
£5,233,164 1 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current 'expenses (including sala-
ries, bonus to staff, rents, repairs,
stationery, etc.)
To note, income and land taxes
To transfer to. Reserve Fund
To balance .. ..
£40,539 10 4
3,770 13 3
10.000 0 0
22,507 14 11
£76,817 18 6
By Balance brought forward.. .. £5,483 12 2
By gross profits for the half-year,
after allowing for interest accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills current, and
making provision for bad and
doubtful debts . . . . _ .. 71,334 6 4
£76,817 18 6
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance .. .. . . .. £280,000 0 0
£280,000 0 0
By balance brought forward .. £ 270,000 0 0
By transfer from Profit and Loss . . 10,000 0 0
£280,000 0 0
Your
Advantaqe-
When
You
Wear
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
f^z-
V
: « e
1
The unconventional lady curer who lately
has been restoring Harrie Ireland to health
and spirits was aggrieved by a Bulletin
statement that the long-suffering actress is
still “under medical treatment.” It is meta-
physical doctoring that has wrought the im-
provement in patient Harrie, she insists. The
lady practitioner is a metaphysician, if you
please, and the Association she belongs to
demands that no credit shall be. given to
“medical science,” as the term is generally
understood. Harrie Ireland’s case is very
interesting, anyhow, and those who know
most about it are the most impressed.
“Staff-sergeant”: Dig up a King’s Regs,
(page 112), and you will find that field pun-
ishment (known as “Crucifixion”) is a legal
award for an O.C.tomake. After that, root out
Field Service Pocket Book and page 211 will
tell you that an offender undergoing F.P. No.
1 may be (o) kept in irons, (1>) attached
by straps, irons or ropes for not more than
two hours in one day to a fixed object. Must
not be attached for more than three out of
four consecutive days, or for more than 21
days in all. 1 have no knowledge of any
Australian soldiers having had to undergo
F.P. No. 1 during this war, but the Tommies
are tied up occasionally.
Members of the Permanent Artillery, the
Engineers, A.S.C., and Instructional staff
seem to have a very real grievance against
the Defence Department. Some who are
anxious to go to the war are not allowed to
quit their present sphere of usefulness, and
all of them are kept on their <>ld salaries
whilst other public servants have had their
pay raised in accordance with the increased
cost of living. Military staff clerks are much
better off', though they do the same work as
the permanent men. The complaint is only
another illustration of the muddle and mix
in the Department where Pearce sometimes
saves the shillings and other times leaves the
pounds to be squandered.
At a recent Red Cross fete five guineas
were spent on the hire of red carpet for the
vice-regal feet, and for other similar extras,
while the hard-up vocalists—all well-known
professionals—received nothing for three
guineas’ worth of music each. Three years
ago Queen Mary publicly stated that she
would not attend any function whatever
unless the artists were paid a minimum fee,
of one guinea. Won’t somebody ask the
Australian Exes, to lay down the same
rule?
“Snell”: Burnet Grey, who put up some-
thing of a record in being a writer of very
respectable verse and a Melb. suburban coun-
cillor at the same time, has added himself to
the lengthy list of Bulletin contributors at
the Front. Burnet is one of three Grey
brothers in khaki. One passed out at the
Somme; another, still battling at the West
Front, has been wounded four times (catch-
ing on the fourth occasion a dose of shrapnel
that left him paralysed for two months), but
each time has been promptly drafted back to
the fighting-line as soon as he felt his feet
under him.
The Northern Rivers of N. S. Wales,
where the Win-the-War party is impreg-
nable, is worried over the erosion of the
banks of the various waterways, and big
expense will be needed to protect them. So
immediately the elections were over a con-
ference was held in Sydney to settle who
was to find the money. The first idea was
that the people who owned the damaged land
should pay, but this, naturally, was howled
down. Then it was proposed that the trad-
ing-steamer cos. should shell out. This was
received with loud applause, until someone
pointed out that the cos. would only hit up
the freights. Then someone suggested that
the shires should foot the bill, tut he was
hooted down in quick time. Then it was
moved that the State bear the expense. A
few timid persons objected that this wasn’t
the way to Win the War, but they weren’t
listened to, and it was unanimously agreed
that the ear of the Government be chewed
immediately.
“Croson” makes a complaint and a sug-
gestion :
Isn’t it about time the promises of preference to
returned soldiers were put into practice? These men
don’t all want to go on the land, even though a
gaudy price has been paid for it; some of them
wouldn’t know what to do with the richest farm
ever bought at a boom-price from a rich landlord ;
but when they apply for railway work which they
can do, and are told, as some of them have been in
Victoria, that they must be under 40 and pass a
medical examination, it is time somebody got busy at
a job of chucking out. If a man is young enough
and fit enough to fight, provided he is not in-
capacitated he is quite fit for most railway jobs.
There must surely be a lot of porters, shunters,
goods-clerks and the like who have gone away and
have not yet returned —why are their places not filled
by returned men? If the recruiting people devoted
half their time to righting the grievances of re-
turned men, they would find that the other half of
their time would yield better results than their whole
time docs now.
“8.D.5.”: When the war is over I'm
going to settle the prickly-pear with field-
guns. Turpenite, an explosive invented by
the French, is of .so deadly a nature that
they won’t use it while fighting in their own
country, the reason being that it destroys
all vegetation and nothing will grow on the
soil affected for eight years. Surely a dose
of turp. should give our old friend the real
spike.
Norman Bayles, the elect of Toorak, had
his tie disordered the other day by railway-
expert Johnson. Bayles got in front of the
Commission as a critic of railway finance,
and speedily became so bogged that Johnson
grew sarcastic. But that didn’t bump
Norman out of the way. He opined next
that the absence of any fund for the renewal
of permanent way, etc., was iniquitous.
Whereupon Johnson :
In ’O7 Parliament set up two funds called the
Railway Interest and Reserve Fund and the Raihvav
Additions and Improvements Fund, which the Act
declared to be permanent. In ’O9 Parliament “bor-
rowed” the money from the Commissioners and said
“We will pay you interest.” In T 2 they collared
the money outright to the tune of £72,000.
Bayles (weakly) : “That is quite correct”!
Then the engineer got slowly down and
scraped him off the wheel.


o
i
HllllllllllllllllllilHlllilUlllHllll ! ..•'! •*. !. l / l :V ,, r-’
Beauty and Power in the Hudson Super-Six
THE supremacy of the Hudson Super-Six patented motor is now an accepted
fact. Through this Hudson invention, motor efficiency has been increased
80 per cent, and motor friction nearly ended. Now, for the first time, one make
of car, the Hudson Super-Six, holds all worth-while records for power, speed,
endurance, hill-climbing and quick acceleration. And the Super-Six, in beauty
and luxury, matches this motor supremacy. Each Hudson body is a master-
piece of the designers’ art. The Super-Six is the Supreme car.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address : HUDSON CAR.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., 1 5 Bent Street, Sydney.
Oalgety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson &. Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J. Brien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
U^OTjDENSE^H
71
• ii
Will
MIL
:• !l «!i
®V">
IICONDtiMSEn
•: •» l
)NDtMSCS7!i!!
a*
Ill'll
p «.v
Is*!!
i ; i'COND
ii! I!
ail
QtO
V« tV “ Q av'P
oftU® .
iS’li! 1
dv iV
LfiTFicoNt
i?*!! s'!' mm
NSCO
nfjT BRAftO
av.\A
MC
6^>
iiss
SiASOIOSVdSSCONDfNSfoggi
V
flier
m
m
nCM BwAno
i
nt^TBRAno
3
rotf-
glAfllGlO S >WSS CONOtNS!
5-5?
)S«ISSCONOfNSfo^
nCJie
5»
lir'
hi:
i^jCiOSwSj
CT'«'«h
ZtBLANQ
WIO
SLdAfGIO'SW
cwKNapit
'"'is///'
m
nolOWDO^y
ss
ruV/Z/Z,
VtHiZ/Z
■'//////«..• *=y
I
ffi
Y/V/tfdL
Tui/tfiOP"""--'.
m
&
l|jgf||:ONDfNStD <l |
{YuV/ZZZ
! C °J^l NSf Pin:!l? £ !«
'w//
VttM
[S' [l3 ISljll
in'!i
i *
" iii! ii |l|
I ill!
Y/YS/iiH
J«iii
aos
ntitßßAno
ntsTßB«no
Ms&ssm
WJA^^CWDfNSio^I!
w jrtcnuAnotQHD^^t.
lisTjiilCONDcNSfo ..ii
J|i* cONDcNSEk^Piy
I IgSffl
iii mi 11
mIrJC
m « ••
: ii!!!f!
•"! ! ::i
III!!!
Sfi^is^SJaiA*
<r\jk
nt^TBRAno
nt^TBRAno
fftHStrOFfW**.
THE USES OF
NESTLED MILK
1. For making Coffee, Cocoa and Tea.
2. For Blancmanges, Rice Puddings, &c.
3. For Scones, Cakes, &c.
4. For Ices, Ice Cream, and Iced Dainties.
NESTLE’S MILK IS GUARANTEED
“Milky Way” Booklet with Recipes will be posted on receipt of Id stamp.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
NESTLE & ANGLO-SWISS CONDENSED MILK CO.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE BRISBANE FREMANTLE
asd


Missing Friends.
' v |
W&C:
■■■■ -st\
m
il
WILLIAM ERNEST COOKE, who was recently In
** the employ of Mr. Buchanan, of Tallangatta,
Victoria, should communicate at once with Messrs.
LOWE & CO., of 2 Temple Gardens, London, England,
Solicitors, who have news to his advantage.
£5O Rsward. Lawrence Joseph Iwi.
LEFT England in the month of March, 1911, and
went to Sydney, New South Wales, his last known
address being Brigalow, Queensland. Information is
required as to whether he is living or not. and if
living, such information is required as will enable
his relatives to get into communication with him.
The said L. J. IWI is entitled to "certain monies
under the Will of his late father, and all communica-
tions should be addressed to Mr. PERCY SHORT,
Donnington House, Norfolk Street, Strand, London:
the Solicitor to the Trustees of the said Will.
The above reward will be paid to the first person
or persons giving the information required, subject
to the express condition that if any question arises
as to the said reward, or to the person or persons
entitled to the same, such question shall be left to
the decision of the said Trustees, and their decision
shall be final and binding on all parties.
PICKING, PRANK,
FORMERLY of Goondiwindi, Queensland.
If Mr. PICKING or anyone knowing
his whereabouts will communicate with
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO. OF
AUSTRALIA Ltd.
forthwith, at its Brisbane, Sydney or Mel-
bourne offices, Mr. Picking will learn of
something to his advantage.
AniuntMiientK.
Hurry Rickard* Tivoli Theatres I.td.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSII.
JIVOLI THEATKK, SYDNEY
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT AT S.
NELLIE STEWART
in the Second Act
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
Special Cast in Support.
VAUDEVILLE IN ADDITION,
including MR. TALLEUR ANDREWS.
Plan Nicholson’s & Tivoli.
•jpIVOLI Til JO AT 1C E, MEEBOuTINE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
Overwhelming Success
MISS ADA REEVE and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
in A MATTER OF BUSINESS. First production in
Australia.
Plan W. H, Glen’s.
LIEU MAJESTY’S. SYDNEY.
** Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 1.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
Greatest of Pantomime Productions,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
P ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.
J. and N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY CO.
in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
fa
TKIANGI.E PLAYS AT
• TIIE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: XI a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. (id.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Raimukotov Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to lI-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Bahrinuton Mili, tut, Managing Director.
EU .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY, MAY 26.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA.
TIIE THIiEE TWINS.
A Musical Play Crammed with Surprises.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TII EAT R E li OY A 1,, MELBOURNE.'
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA.
EVERY EVENING.
A SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC CO.
in the Great New Play of Human Nature,
LONDON PHI DP.
RIN CESS’S THEATRE. M ELROURN'K.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE FULLER RECORD-BREAKING
PANTOMIME,
THE 13UN YIP.
Special Prices: 4/•, 3/-, 2/- and !/•
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
nast middle-age.
Amusements.
ING’S THEATRE. M 15 I. 110 U K N E.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
LAST SIX NIGHTS OF
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2.
First Production in Australia of
THE WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUM.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
jyj A,J ESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
THE FINIS
of
BILLIE BURKE
i in
GLORIA’S ROMANCE.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
BRTTANNTA THEATRE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and Cd.
sdf
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
"Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The "Smith" is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
tkCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The WonderM Old-World War Cham
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Hold, from 10/6 enc “-
Mounted as Pings in 9ct. Gold, from 20 /• each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
Lxjvuna
CURES ECZEMA.
Writing from Cooladdi, via Charleville, Queens-
land, Thomas King says: “Please accept my very
grateful thanks for your able cure of that terrible
scourge, Eczema. What I suffered for seven long
vears none can tell. Doctors I tried in vain,
chemists failed utterly. A friend told me of
Exzcrma. One bottle gave relief, three bottles
effected a complete cure, with no signs or symp-
toms of a dreaded return. I say to a.l who suffer
from Exzerma, ‘lt will cure you.’ ’’ 1"
All Chemists & Druggists, or C/ 9 A
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. , fc*JV
as
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins bv till Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
“A Near Shave,”
one that leaves the face as smooth as a child’s, is
what
THE “PLUM’* RAZOR
will give you. All the science in the world can’t
make a keener blade or one that keeps its edge so
long.
price: io/g—post free.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line makes
a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, Post Free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
The Good Old
“PLUM.”
m
6
\
m
m
A 2
Remjf,f°n
CARTRIDGES
' TJISCRIMINATING users
of sliot gun cartridges Lave
given tbe Remington
brand tbe stamp of tbeir approv-
al. Supplied in black and smokeless pow-
der loads. All cases are waterproofed.
Ask your dealer for them or send for
descriptive catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO./
D. D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
Gift Specials for Men
AT STEWART DAWSON’S ECONOMY PRICES.
Sterling Silver Line Engraved
Cigarette Case, 35/-
Others at 27/6, 32/6,
C6B69.—Solid 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring. Price 21/-
15ct. Gold, 407-
Stone Set, 30 /- ail d 50/-
07197. —Finest Translucent
Enamel and Sterling Silver
Links, 6/6 pair.
Strong Brown Leather Wallet,
with Silver Shield and Note
Book. Price 5/6.
COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF SUITABLE GIFTS FOR MEN, POST FREE.
STEWART DAWSON’S
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
Ooverninent Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 17th May, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Soluble
Chocolate to H.M.A. Naval Estab-
lishments, Sydney, N.S.W.
TENDERS are invited, subject to the
conditions of tendering, until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 20th June, 1917, for the
supply and delivery of Chocolate to H.M.A.
Naval Establishments, Sydney.
Tender Form, Specification and full parti-
culars may be obtained on application at the
Office of ‘the Director of Navy Contracts.
Navy Office, Melbourne; the Victualling
Store Officer, Royal Edward Victualling
Yard, Pyrmont, Sydney; or at the Naval
Staff Offices, Birkenhead (S.A.), Brisbane.
Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Chocolate” on top left-hand corner of
envelope and addressed (if by post prepaid)
to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne; or the Director of Navy
Contracts, c/o one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres t
•22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St, MELBOURNE.
Stimulating—
Nourishing—
Palatable—
Easily Made—
Easily Stored—
Always an Ideal
Food-Drink.
What is the reason of the phenomenal
success attained hv Calox in Great
Britain and America —and why is it
gaining so rapidly in popularity with
the Australian public?
is the Oxygen
Tooth Powder.
Immediately on contact with moisture
and the teeth it liberates active
oxygen, the powerful germ-destroyer,
which ensures the prompt destruction
of all decayed food matter.
Get a Big
FREE SAMPLE
of Calox to-day; attach your name
and address to this advertisement and
mail to Calox Dept., GEO. IVILLS
AND CO., LTD., 480 Collins Street,
Melbourne, enclosing two peiuv
stamps to cover postage.
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists and Leading Stores.
F.24/5/’l7.


Trial Free by Post
“My troubh arose from an intolerable
itching of the sca.p and a rash breaking
out on my chest and back.
I could not prevent myself
from scratching. The rash
on my chest and back came
in the form of very small
pimples, then they merged
into one another making
eruptions.
‘ ‘I had heard of Cuticura
Soap and decided to give it a trial.
Then I started with the Cuticura Oint-
ment. At the end of .a fortnight I was
all right again.” (Signed) Arther Gor-
don, The Athenaeum, 188 Collins St.,
Melbourne, Vic., September 1, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
m
CHRISTIE’^!
£P£C!AUSE
L/NES
$
i#
u#
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/vN p
PATTERNS
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
1C /iOAJTER § T NEWCASTLE
'll
••
■Wi
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
{LEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
ffi
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep-shell, dark blue gastisht
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
i£ oz. shot.
ELEY
“320 Revolver
ELEY
‘32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADA*MS,
420, George St., Sydney. N.S.W.
Wholesale:
F.IF.V BROS., LTD., LONDON.
a#
*
gjr « # f # 1
ft M #
ft,.
11
10
2
9
8
BIG BEN
7
5.
6
To Make Ends Meet—ls/-
Most every thing
that goes to make
Big Ben the good
clock he is has
doubled and
trebled in price.
He found it difficult
the past year to keep
his cost to you at the
old figure and still
make ends meet.
To add to this, the cost
of his passage overseas
has been raised. It was
necessary for him to
increase his price. For
the present and till fur-
ther notice, he’s selling
at 15/-.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful,deep-tOned voice— large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watchlike escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for five minutes or
intermittently for ten. At all clock
dealers.
La Salle. 111. U.S.A. CStCm Clock Co. Makers of Westclox
Other Westclox: Baby Ben, ish; America, 6/-; Sleep-Meter, 816; BoyproofWatch, 6\6.
dfa
sdf
?8l LO*
asd
COLUMBUS
Like the motorist who catches sight of
the “Plume” Benzine sign, Columbus knew
that he had discovered something. Back
in the land that Columbus discovered were
the great Pennsylvanian Oil fields waiting
to be drawn upon for the benefit of man-
kind. From the crude oil obtained there is
distilled and refined the best Motor Spirit
obtainable, known as
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting Sweet Running More Miles
“Plume” is a wonderfully powerful driving
force, famous for easy starting besides giving
more mileage and ensuring a clean cylinder.
It proves its economy when in use.
Correct Lubrication
Gargoyle Mobiloils secure the maximum
compression in your cylinders. Write tor
free Recommendation Chart, s hp wm & the
correct grade you should use. A grade for
each type of Motor.” For sale at all dealers
and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
a
fa
sdf
r J
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Inky Way.
“Catchline” : Their mother’s name will be
carried into battle by two of the three sons
of the late Jennings Carmichael (Mrs.
Mullis), the Australian writer of some sym-
pathetic little verses who, fallen on dark days
through no fault of her own, died in London
in February, 1904. She was originally a
hospital nurse, and her fragments of rhyme
attracted a band of admirers. In 1907
an Australian in London found the
children by diligent search, and later they
were brought out to Melbourne. They were
then 14, 11 and 8. The eldest enlisted with
the Wireless Signallers in 1915. He is
now after the Turk. The second lad is in
camp, and the third son must wait until he
is a little older before signing on.
“HAMER” MERCER says farewell.
“Masetto”: Melbourne journalism of 50
years back provided more solid entertain-
ment than in these libel-haunted times. In the
early ’6o’s an Age par charged the Herald
with a lie and termed its author “a Parlia-
mentary flunkey.” Geo. Levey, then editor
of the Herald and an M.P., took this to
himself and retorted in a fitting manner.
Thereupon editor G. P. Smith, of the Age,
talked ominously of pulling somebody’s
nose. Soon after Levey met his opponent
near his office (then in Elizabeth-street) and,
twitting him with his threat, struck him
with a riding-whip, threw the weapon away
and set to with his fists. Smith, although
the bigger man, was getting the worst of
the scrap when the contestants rolled into a
bootmaker’s shop. The tradesman pushed
them out into the street, and some of the
Age staff hauled their chief off. The same
night Levey took his place in the House,
while his rival scowled at him from the press
gallery.
* * * *
Adelaide University thinks it has got some
real poetry at last in exchange for the Bun-
dey Prize, founded in memory of the Judge
in 1913. The policy of setting a subject
brought in cold, machine-made rhymes until
the war was listed. Then Leon Gellert,
once of S.A. Education Department, but
now a sergeant of the 10th. came to light
with a series of high-explosive sonnets and
lyrics.
THE SONG AND THE SINGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My poet wrote: “Ah! blissful days
Where Healesville’s golden surges rise.
Ah! sweet, warm nights when hidden ways
Brought thee to me with starlit eyes.
No more of joy can love reveal.
When other flames illume the night,
In all their glory, dear, I feel
Thy subtle warmth, and see thy light.
There came to me a thought of awe:
“Here’s one that recks not mortal law,
A lover lion-like and free.
Ah! Lord, send such a love to me.”
My poet wrote: “I scorn the lays
Of puny circumscribed life.
Give me my foe, and tumbled days,
The wounds and fever of the strife.
I rive with scorn their little laws,
Their measured rules I laughing try,
And throw them from my limbs as straws,
For I must live, or I will die.
With beating pulse I read his line,
And whispered, “Here is the fine,
Exalted soul. He seems to speak
From some wind-polished mountain peak.
My poet wrote: “The open way,
The great sea racing ’neath the sky,
These keep me drifting night and day.
My tent is broad, its roof is high.
By writhing plain and mountain crust
I chase the eagles on the wing.
Nought will from my unburied dust
But restless vines and creepers spring.
I said: “Here is the stir that shook,
And oped the wide world like a book,
The poet-soul implanted in
Some bearded, hook-nosed Bedouin.
At last I saw a little man
In down-heeled slippers and a fez,
Who hastened with a painted can,
And watered all his cabbages.
There rooted in a wee backyard,
By stings of heat and storm forsook,
Is living still my splendid bard.
His wife she has a famished look.
’Tis said, what’s learned in suffering
The animated poets sing.
But with a keener note is trilled
A gnawing instinct unfulfilled.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


Edison BlueAmberol
Records for May
asd
I his month’s list contains some? excellent items, and will
appeal to a wide range of tastes. There are many that will
delight you.
The two concert pieces are not only charming airs, but are
beautifully rendered by front-rank artists.
Those deserving special notice include -What a Wonderful
Mother You’d Be' (W. Van Brunt) ; “Legende” (Czer-
wonky) ; “If I Knock the ‘L’ Out of Kelly” (Ada Jones
and chorus) ; and “Where Did Robinson Crusoe Go with
1 liday on Saturday Night?” (Billy Murray and chorus).
Make a. note NOW of those you fancy—and order at once.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
Mnii(> Happold, Karl Join and
Arthur Middleton.
28239—Where’er You Walk—Semele (G.
Handel). Tenor, oreh. ace.
Redferne Hollinshead.
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2912 Dixie, Mixed voices, orcli. acc.
Metropolitan Mixed Chorus.
2913 What a Wonderful Mother You’d Be.
Tenor, orch. ace. - Walter Van Brunt.
2916 Yaaka llula Hickey Dula (Hawaiian
Love Son;?. Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt.
2920 —Since Mother Coes to Movie Shows.
Orch. acc. Billy Murray.
2922 First Heart Throb. Bells, orch. ace.
John F. Burckhardt.
2923 When It’s. Orange Blossom Time in
Loveland (I'll be Waiting at the Church
for. You.) Tenor, orch. acc.
George W. Ballard and Chorus.
2924 Sing Us a Song of Bonnie Scotland.
Glen Ellison. |
2926—-Mary of Argyle, Tenor, orch. acc.
Will A. Rhodes, Jr.
292<—-Hilo March, Hawaiian Guitars.
Helen Louise and Palakiko Ferreira.
2931—\\ here Did Robinson Crusoe Go With
Friday on Saturday Night? Tenor,
orch. acc. Billy Murray and Chorus.
2932 Legende. Violin, piano accompaniment
by Robert- Gayler. Richard Czerwonky.
2933 True to the Flag March.
United States Marine Band.
2934 Pretty Edelweiss—Alone at Last.
Armand Vecsev and His Orchestra.
2935 Letter that Never Reached Home. Tenor,
oich. aec. George Wilton Ballard.
2936—Setting the Pace—One-Step. For Dane*
"iff. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
2940—1 f 1 Knock the “L” Out 'of lvellv (It
Would Still be Kelly to Me) Orel),
ecc. Ada Jones and Chorus.
2943 Love-Sick Coon. Vaudeville sketch with
banjo.
Billy Golden and James Marlowe.
2945 Serenade (.Schubert'). Cornet with
orchestra. Ernst Albert Couturier.
9442 —National Song of Denmark (King Chris-
tian Stood Beside the Mast).
New York Military Band.
9445- National Air of Sweden.
New York Military Band.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (wholesale only), 361-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
fas
df
Reduce
Friction
25 to 40 i.
“Standard” Roller-bearing; Boxes
Will fit the “Pioneer” Pressed Steel Hanger
or Ordinary Cast Iron Hanger Frame.
I]\ OPERATING A MANUFACTURING PLANT, there is no one item of expense
oi more importance than that of “FRICTION LOAD” of the power-transmitting machinery
That this “friction load” can be REDUCED FROM 25% to 40%, depending upon load,'
speed, etc., has during the past eight years been proven beyond any probability of doubt, the
only question remaining to be determined being the type of roller- or ball-bearing it is desirable
to use.
A series of tests and actual use, for a period
a ROLLER REARING is better than a
driven by steam, water or electricity.
of seven or eight years, has demonstrated that
Ball Bearing for transmitting power in a mill
“STANDARD” ROLLER-BEARING BOXES are universal in adaptation and all
parts are interchangeable. They have a Split Bearing throughout, and, in addition to shafts
being protected by STEEL BUSHINGS, the Roller Structure is bushed to different sizes.
1 uithcr advantages are: FULL FLOATING type and all end thrust eliminated; a SELF-
CONTAINED “Roller Structure,” insuring parallel movement of rolls; a rotating surface
for the ends of the “Roller Structure” to revolve with.
The above Roller-Bearing Boxes are designed for general power-transmission purposes, and not
for special high-speed work.
Size of Shaft.
Inches.
1
to
i
Price.
15/6
£lO/10/-
Length of Box.
Inches.
5J
to
n
Width of Box.
Inches.
3
to
5i
Height of Box.
Inches.
81
to
Our new Power Transmission Catalogue will be ready shortly.
Shall we save 3 r ou one?
Proprietary Limited
Engineers’ Furnishers,
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
and
51=65 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
asd
84. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 2fiiu. barrels, both choke; weight,
about oil!: Freight paid, £4/8/-
fas
dfa
sdf
B3G. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-holt, blued
steel barrels, right, modified, .left, full choke, matted
no, lebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-cud, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7,} to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7) to 7| lb.—
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels £2/9/0
Postage: 3/- N.S.W., 5/8 Inter-State.
- 12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels
Freight paid, £2/17/6
-
s®
ss§?
837. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure, compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
gnp, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-emf, tested for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge
to 8i lb., 10-gauge, 7| to 8 lb.—
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels 1
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels .
Freight paid, £3/10/-
Freight paid, £3/17/6
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., post free.
asd
830. C. G. Boneliill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, tor.) lover, 32iti. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar looks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2sin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about Ti : lb Freight paid, £5/15/-
BH
barrels,
Magazine
837. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
ao . 1 “ I] k -Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
-.in full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2jin. shells,
holds o cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight, 7|lb.
838. Remington Browning Automatic
similar description to BS7
• Freight paid, £B/15/
Repeating Shot-Gun, 12-gauge,
Freight paid, £B/15/
a
"1®; Winchester Automatic Rei>eatiii« Rifle
Model, special 22-calibre rim lire, round bfued 20in’
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 Seconds; wa * h *. ab o u t ?ilb.; sighted point blank to
' ' ‘ Freight paid, £5/7/0
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE.
British=made.
Box of 5, 2/6 post free.
fa
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-. 3S-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With'Round Barrel Freight paid, 77/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, 80/-
With Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, S 3/.
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres,
central fire, full or half magazines, 20in. round barrel; weight, about 551 b. Freight paid, 70/-’
sdf
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892
Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22-ealibre rim fire; magazine takes
25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight 51lb. —
Freight paid, 77/6
Same as above, with round barrel Freight paid, 72/6
We Repair Ail Kinds of Guns and Rifles
New edition illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also “Sure Catch ”
Anglers' Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both
lists. They are money savers.
7C
msTßnua's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
asd
City Sports Depot
119 King St, d/so a/
Tiewcostle d Brisbane


A Gallant Anzac Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Private Jack Molloy, 1097, C Company,
19th Battalion, felt it his duty to leave a
permanent billet to enlist in defence of the
Empire early in 1915. He was in the famous
Suvla Bay landing, and was wounded in an
attack shortly afterwards. After lying some
hours exposed to Turkish machine-gun and
rifle fire, the stretcher-bearers found him and
carried him down to the clearing station,
whence lie was shipped from Gallipoli Penin-
sula to Malta. He was three months in
Floriana Hospital, and returned to Australia
on the Kanowna. This g'allant Australian
writes:—•
“When I left Aus-
tralia with the 19th
Battalion, sth Brigade,
on June 25, 19*5, I
packed in my kit a
bottle of ‘New Dis-
covery,’ because I had
been suffering while in
camp from catarrh of
the throat. I cured
myself completely with
this bottle. I could not
get ‘New Discovery’ in
Egypt, but I had some
sent to me at Malta,
where I was lying
wounded in Floriana
Hospital. I have always
regarded ‘N e w Di s-
covery’ as my only
friend in the medicine
line. I always keep it
near at hand.
“Yours faithfully,
“J. MOLLOY.’’
n
m
m
m
Bni
■
mm
i
i
Private JACK MOLLOY ( from , a photo).
STOPS COUGHS BANISHES COLDS
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the most famous modern remedy for Coughs
and Colds. A dose taken at the first sign of a cold will ward off danger and
prevent further trouble. New Discovery is as good for the folk at home as for
our soldiers at the Front. Buy a bottle to-day and reap the benefit of a winter
free from Coughs and Colds. 1/6 and 3/-
D» Sheldon’s
New Discover
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
i/1 i
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
£)0 YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and-depression—he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
t made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids ' the
most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No 2 A.
For Anannia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2. *
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘ JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-.
f
V
fefew | W (Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
HORROCKSES'HQRRQCKSESHORROCKSES’HORROCKSES
HORROCKSES’HOR ROCKSES'
fa
SHORT NAP
WELL TWISTED-YARN
we RECOMMEND
HORROCKSES'
J c Zasi/iele£fea
for SAFETY WEAR
and COMFORT
SEE
“HORROCKSES”’
ON
SELVEDGE
SHORROCKSES^HQRROCKSEsI
HO R RO C KSEffHORROCKS ES’ HO R ROC KSESHO RROGKSES 1
sdf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Scots of the Riverina.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
boy ran away to the city from his
I home at Christmas time —-
They were Scots of the Riverina, and
to run from home was a crime.
The old man burned his letters, the first and
last he burned,
And he scratched his name from the Bible
when the old woman’s back was turned.
A year went past and another; and the fruit
went down the line.
They heard the boy had enlisted, but the old
man made no sign.
His name must never be mentioned on the
farm by Gundagai—
They were Scots of the Riverina with ever
the kirk hard by.
The boy came home on his ‘•final,” and the
township’s bonfire burned.
Ilis mother’s arms were about him, but the
old man’s back was turned.
The daughters begged for pardon till the old
man raised his hand—
A Scot of the Riverina who was hard to
understand.
The boy was killed in Flanders, where the
bravest heroes die.
There were tears at the Grahame homestead
and grief in Gundagai;
But the old man ploughed at daybreak and
the old man plought t’ the mirk —
There were furrows of pain in the orchard
while his housefolk went to the kirk.
The hurricane-lamp in the rafters dimly and
dimly burned :
And the old man died at the table when the
old woman’s back was turned.
Face down on his bare arms folded he sank
with his wild grey hair
Outspread o’er the open Bible and a -name
re-written there.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
Tobacco.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The men in the galley sat playing poker
listlessly and listening to the rain on
the tin roof. They had been out of
tobacco for nearly two days, and all the salt
had gone out of life. It was even money
that the creek between them and the station
was already in flood and that the cart with
supplies would not get through ; but the
shortage of beef and flour was a small thing
compared with the want of tobacco.
Curran, the head-driller, who was said to
go to sleep with a pipe between his teeth,
lay on a bunk in the corner with his eyes
closed and tried to blot out time. lie was
afraid to eat his dinner lest it should sharpen
the craving inside him. The others sat
about moodily, some biting on the stems of
cold pipes, some cursing monotonously at
their cards, and all showing signs of ragged
nerves. They had tried many kinds of sub-
stitute, from tea to brown paper, but had
found no lasting satisfaction in any of them.
“Never mind,” said the cook, ' with an
attempt at cheerfulness. “Young Andy’s
bound to get through with the dray. That
boy wouldn’t let half a dozen floods stop'
him.”
Curran open his strained eyes like a man
in pain.
“The young beggar doesn’t smoke,” he
muttered. “His troubles about getting
through!”
“He’ll do it all right—take it from me,”
the cook repeated, going to the door.
The world outside presented itself as a
wilderness of dripping mulga, above which
the tall derrick reared its head like the mast
of a ship. So pervasive was the rain that
even the wood seemed as if it might dissolve
like sugar at any moment. It would have
been a relief to the men in camp if they
could have worked, but it had been impossible
to keep a fire going in the engine, for the
stacked firewood was soaked through and
through. Neither could they kill time by
reading, for every paper was crammed full
of advertisements of pipes and tobaccos,
tobaccos nutty and aromatic, tobaccos cool
and life-giving, tobaccos whose fragrance
made their heads swim in intoxication. Then
there were the solid, chunky pipes, with soft,
desirable curves.... The cook, in order to
stop this morbid pre-occupation had collected
all the papers surreptitiously and hidden
them in a corner under the bread-tin.
Suddenly the heavy, splashing sound of a
horse’s feet was heard, followed by a rock-
ing of wheels.
“It’s Andy, sure enough,” said the cook. .
“What did I tell yer?”
They tumbled over one another in their
haste to get to the door just as the mud-
covered dray came crawling out of the tim-
ber. Andy, with a sack arranged in tri-
angular fashion for a head-covering, was
sitting on the shaft, a cheerful grin on his
bright young face.
“Got through just in time,” he announced.
“Another hour and I’d have been blocked.
It’s beginning to run a banker and no error.
The current at the crossing nearly carried
oP Plummer off his feet, but he stuck to it
as if he was out to win a bet. Logs and
branches coming down, too. .. . It’s going
to be a proper flood “this time."
lie was a raw-boned youth of about 18,
but quick and capable, and just now he
was proud of his exploit. The cook was
dragging away the sacks and sorting out the
kerosene and stores.
“Where’s the tobacco?” he asked suddenly.
Andy pulled himself up with a jerk.
“Ain’t it in the box with the loose stores?”
“No,” said the cook emphatically. “It
just ain’t.”
“There were 12 plugs,” Andy floundered.
“Six light and six dark. I saw them taken
out of the caddies myself, and tol’ the store-
keeper to carry them out and put them in
that box. I’m dead sure I tol’ him.”
He suddenly had an impression of being
surrounded by a circle of wolfish eyes, and
his throat became dry. The silence of the
other men was horrible.
“It was that fool of a storekeeper,” he
repeated. “I was busy getting beef from the
butcher’s shop. ‘Wrap them in paper and
put them in the box,’ I tol’ him.”
Curran broke the silence with a roar.
“You damned young fool! I believe you
done it on purpose !”
The other men looked as if they were
liable to jump on him at any moment and
tear him limb from limb. But for Andy their
heaviest curses added nothing to the inten-
sity of the situation. All the way home he
had been priding himself upon getting
through, and now lie had to face this The
cook was ransacking the dray as if he could
not believe the evidence of his eyes, and
amid the general uproar Andy slunk away
to take the harness off the horse and turn it
loose.
Half an hour later the cook found him
gloomily saddling his lean mare at the back
of the galley.
“Where are you going?” he asked. “You
can't get back to the station now.”
“I’m going across country to Bindi,” said
Andy doggedly. “It’s only 15 miles, and
Redd’s Creek ain’t such a proposition as the
other one.”
“You’ll never do it!” said the cook.
“Won’t I?” Andy flashed. “Then you’ve
seen the last of me. Do you think I’m going
to sit in that galley with the other blokes
poking mullock at me?”
The cook watched him ride away down
the slippery ridge, every inch of him drip-
ping rain, and then turned back to the gloom
of the galley to get dinner for the others.
“Queer young beggar!” he muttered. “And
I’m game to bet he hasn’t had a feed since
before sun-up!”
But Andy rode on Avith a bitterness in his
heart that made him forget the Avant of
food. He did not understand this erotic
craving for tobacco, but he kneAv that the
camp would be an utterly impossible place
for him unless he got it. A youthful sense
of the world’s injustice flooded his soul, but
his jaAv was thrust out aggressively. He
would sooner be drowned in Redd’s Creek
than fail in his mission.
“I’ll slioav them,” he muttered, though he
did not quite know what he meant to show
them unless it was his unconquerable
tenacity.
It was 15 miles to Bindi, across country
that Avas a maze of emu-bush and mulga
scrubs. Andy Avas wet to the skin, and there
was no heat in his blood except that of
moral indignation. Cold runnels of water
trickled from his hair and made a goose-
flesh progress down his spine. Dripping
branches flapped in his face. And the mare
slipped continually in the black mud, plough-
ing on again spiritlessly Avith drooping head
as if she were as careless as Andy himself
about what happened to her.
When they reached Redd’s Creek it was a
swim for man or beast; but the water had
spread wide over the flats and the current
was not strong. Andy forced the mare into
it, and at the third attempt she plunged
forward Avith a grunt, as if she had com-
mitted her soul finally to the deep. Andy
swam behind her, holding on to her skimpy
tail, and wondering what strange happiness
lay in a dirty-looking plug of black tobacco.
Half an hour later the Bindi stockmen,
sitting on the verandah of the men’s hut,
saw a limping horse and draggled rider
crawl out of the wet bushes above the yard.
Until they came quite close the two figures
seemed to have merged inextricably, but at
the gate the rider separated himself from the
saddle by an effort of will.
“It’s young Andy !” said the Bindi over-
seer. “Now what the devil?”
Andy slouched up with an appearance of
casualness.
“Is the store open ?” he asked. “The boys in
the Collabri camp are out of tobacco.”
A large bead of water hung on the end of
his red nose and every part of him seemed
to ooze Avater. In spite of himself he could
not control the chattering of his teeth.
“Strip your duds off and get in front of
the fire,” said the overseer. “Tobacco be
damned ! Get three fingers of rum inside of
you.”
“No, thanks,” said Andy; “I gotter get
back before it’s too dark.”
“What? To-night?”
“Sure thing,” said Andy. “And I want
the loan of a horse. My oP mare’s done in,
and she’s got a strained shoulder into the
bargain.”
The other men crowded round him and
ridiculed the idea of going back that night,
but Andy was immovable as a rock. There
was a fanatical intensity in his grey eyes.
His Avill was tautened by the conviction that
if life Avas to remain bearable he had to
get back with the tobacco before the men
Avent to sleep. There was only one horse
in the night-paddock, a hammer-headed
brumby that had not long been broken, and
in a few minutes he had it saddled and was
plodding back again, the tobacco and a few
new pipes slung round his neck in a strip of
American cloth. He could not trust them
even to his saddle-pouch.
Time, that evening, ceased to exist for
Andy. In the middle of the creek he lost
contact Avith the brumby, which struggled
out to the other bank ahead of him and made
off into a belt of sandalwood. The advent
of thick darkness found him pushing along
on foot, Avondering if he could pick up the
brumby’s tracks in the morning and rescue
his neAV saddle. But even that mattered
little. Nothing Avas important except the
safe delivery of the tobacco.
He lost himself a dozen times, and found
his way back to the right track by a series
of miracles. In the torpid recesses of his
mind the only lh'e thought was a curiosity
about the substance he Avas carrying. Why
had he never tried it before? As a boy he
had smoked roots in the creek-bed. but they
had only made him sick. Perhaps it was the
memory of those roots that had caused him
to be abstinent. He had a hankering after
most of the insignia of adolescence, such as
spurs, whips and shaving-tackle, but he had
never really Avanted to own a pipe.
The darkness of eternity was suddenly
pierced by a light. Andy blundered up to
the door of the galley on feet that seemed to
belong to someone else and pushed open the
door with triumphant violence. For a moment
the glare of the slush lamp blinded his eyes.
Curran Avas lying on the bunk reading a
weekly paper, while the other men were
uproarious over poker and the cook whistled
as he brewed coffee at the fire. They looked
up at his entrance and the reek of tobacco
caught him in the throat.
(Continued on next page.)


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS ILL?
The kidneys are the life and strength of the back. When
they are ill the back is ill —feels weak, and aches day and
night. Sharp, cutting pains run through you. Work is
impossible; and what with headaches, dizziness, nervousness,
bladder and urinary troubles, your health is quite broken
down. A few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will
make a wonderful improvement in you, and a course of the
medicine will cure you. For Doan’s Pills reach and heal
the kidneys themselves —help them to remove from the body
all the impurities that poison the blood and cause such
diseases as rheumatism, dropsy, Bright’s disease, urinary
disorders, gravel, headache, dizziness, etc.
SERIOUS KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
SYDNEY MAN’S WONDERFUL RECOVERY.
Mr. James Iliggins, 21 Terry Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, says:—“Some time ago I was taken very badly
with kidney trouble. 1 don’t know how to account for it. unless several accidents were to blame. I consulted
three doctors and underwent treatment-, and each one, failing to do me good, advised me to go into the hospital
for an operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance, as one
of my kidneys was in a very diseased state. I took medicines of all sorts, the empty bottles alone being worth
a considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was in such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or
died. I had severe pains in my back, giddiness, headaches, and scalding urine. I was completely done up, and
scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for the operation, when a friend asked me if I had yet
tried Doan’s-Backache Kidney Pills, lie told me he knew of a man who was as bad as I was, and had been
cured completely, and for good, by these pills. I postponed the operation, and commenced using Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I returned to work, and the men there could not believe the change
they saw in me would ever have been possible. There is no -doubt it is wonderful. 1 am quite cured, and as
lit for work as a man could be.”
Twelve years late* Mrs. Higgins says:—“The above statement is true, every word, and 1 can now add the
important fact that my husband is still free of every distressing symptom of kidney trouble. His lasting cure is
proof positive that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will cure serious kidney complaint.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
J wW
dim
dm 1
<§iW.
* V \
I *
V :
\
:v\
v \
i.
jEvery
P/cfure
Te//sA
S/ory’)
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold at 2/9
per bottle at all Chemists and Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Be Sure You Get “DOAN’S.”
“It’s young Andy,” said Curran. “Lord,
what a water-rat you look, too 1. .. . What
made you go off in such a flaming hurry?
The plugs was there all the time. They was
packed inside a tin and the cook took" them
for biscuits.”
Andy sat down on the slab seat, his powers
of speech dried up at their source. In the
circumstances there was only one thing to
do. He unfolded the American cloth, and
cutting off some strips from a plug, lit his
first pipe.
VANCE PALMER.
A Lover of Peace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rpHE big guns were doing their best to
justify their existence, but Smithson,
undisturbed by the noise of their busy
day, or an atmosphere that smelt of dust
and spent chemicals, stolidly cleaned his rifle
and fixings.
“Gorstruth!” he remarked suddenly. “I
’ad an norrible dream larst night! I dreamt
the war was all over, and a feller says to
me: ‘You’re goin’ back to Ostralyer, and
goin’ to be discharged.’ ”
“What was ’orrible about it?” asked
Dickson.
“If you ’ad somethin’ to face when you
got back, an’ you dreamt all about it. so as
you fell in a cold sweat, you’d find it
’orrible.”
He put aside his rifle and felt leisurely for
his tobacco and pipe.
“It was all the wife’s fault,” he said
confidentially. “If it ’adn’t ha’ been for
’er” He paused. “She was always an
argumentative sort of woman: the sort of
woman who, if you argued with ’er, would
argue and argue until she got ’er own way,
an’, if you didn’t argue with ’er, 71 simply,
take it, and then argue and argue to make
you admit she was right, or just because she
was sure, by the way you didn’t discuss the
matter, that you took no interest in your
wife’s affairs. An’ she was the sort of
woman, too, who was convinced that a man
made money just for ’is wife to spend. She
was all right at first, of course: women
mostly are. You don’t expect a baby to start
walkin’ round as soon as it’s born ; but a
woman gets ’er stride quicker than a baby.
She was the sorter woman ’oo gets the t.p.
’abit bad, too, buying things, mostly, just to
’ave them. When it took ’er first it was
good-bye to decent meals. First it was a
sewing-machine, an’ I used to look at the
damn thing an’ try to fancy the good, solid
beefsteaks that was in it, and that I was
eatin’ them. She said it would be cheaper,
because she could make ’er own clothes. But
it wasn’t, because she ’ad to ’ave stuff to
make ’em with, and it being dead easy, she
was always makin’ them. An’ each time she
’ad a new dress made she ’ad to go some-
where to show it off, because she said it
would ha’ been a waste of money if she
didn’t —and that cost money. When she’d
paid off the machine she mortgaged it again
to pay a deposit on a pianner, so I ’ad to
pay the instalments on two things; an’ then
We ’acl to ’ave pieters for the drawin’-room—■
expensive pieters; some of them cost ten
bob each, and a lot more for the framin’
an’ parties fer peojfie to ’ear the pianner *,
and, because of them, we ’ad to get a
gramophone, because the pianner didn't go
round, so to speak. Later, she ’ad to get a
drawing-room suite —red plush all round the
edges, only the backs used to twist round
after a time, if you leaned against them —
all because kitchen chairs didn’t look nice
in the drawing-room. After a time there
wasn’t a thing in the ’ouse that wasn’t
mortgaged, most of it for something else,
and there were so many t.p. instalment
people coming on Monday that when the
grocer called ’e was too late. Yet, when I
asked ’er if we couldn’t get some decent
meals on time payment she went wild,
saying I was always grumbling, and thought
of nothing but me stomach. But she got
scared ’erself about the t.p.; and, to improve
things, she made me insure me life for a
bob a week in case I should die before the
things were paid off.
“Some say it’s cheaper to move than to
pay rent. It isn’t. It may be for people
who haven’t the time-payment habit and
don’t ’ave to cart round a vanful of
mortgages. Moving’s an expensive thing;
an’ even the new credit you can get don’t
last long, and the agents coming after the
instalments soon find you again. But I
drew the line when she found that some
removers were prepared to shift you on the
time-payment system. I’d stood it quiet,
but I went off the handle. An’ on Friday I
blew in the insurance money and the pianner
instalment, and I’d just started on the new
Italian bedstead when me wife came to look
for me —another nasty ’abit of ’efs—and
dragged me ’ome.
“When a landlord an* a ’ole lot of other
people got tired, and all the mortgages whs
cither sold up dr taken away, I could ’ave
felt glad if it wasn’t for the wife. She
said it was all through my drinkin’ ’abits;
an’ she didn’t like goin’ back to plain
furniture, which we paid for. She was
always sore about it an’ wantin’ to argue.
What she used to say, mostly, was that if
I’d been a decent husband I’d ha’ waited
until I was in a position to provide her with a
pianner, and all the rest, and had myself
decently insured, before I asked ’er to marry
me. Which was pretty ’ot, seeiu’ —well, you
know!
“I’d got dead sick of seeing all my money
goin’ on things you couldn’t eat, and I forgot
to tell the missus about the new award. The
increase was pocket money, anyway; but
she found out. She said I’d been deceiving
’er all my married life—l was the meanest
man on earth —I was a liar and a thief ’oo
took the bread out of my children’s mouth.”
• “I wouldn’t ’ave no woman talk to me like
that!” said Dickson.
“You ain’t married,” said Smithson.
“Well, after that she’d see a heading ‘A New
Award’ in the paper. She wouldn’t read
what it was about, or say anything about
it to me, until I’d come to ’and over me pay ;
and then she’d start. ‘Tryin’ to deceive me
again!’ By that time it’d be too late to
look up the newspapers an’ show ’er it was
the boiler-makers or something, an’ she was
’ard to convince.”
“Whv did VOU argue with ’er?” interrupted
nickin “Fd”—
“If you could keep out of arguing with
mv wife vou could be sure of getting back
from ’ere'' without a scratch. I’d just sit
smoking me pipe takin’ no notice, and she’d
grab me pipe to make me talk. If I tried
to get it from ’er she’d scream ‘Murder!’
and p’raps the police would be sent for by
neighbors ’oo thought me a brute. An’ if
I tried to get away she’d ’ide me clothes
where I couldn’t find them. An’ once, when
I’d kept from answerin’ ’er all the evenin’,
she ’id me pants so as I’d 'ave to argue in
the mornin’ before I -went.”
“I’d ’ave got out fer good,” commented
Dickson. . .
“That’s just what I did. It was the limit
when she went to my boss to see if what I
said about an award not affecting me was
right. It gave ’im an impression that I
was a cove who spent a lot of his money oil
beer; and the boss, being a feller who hated
booze, reckoned me a boozer, and sacked
me. The idea spread round and made it
’arder for me to get work. .
“The missus was broken-’earted when I
left. She ’ad no one to argue with. She'
felt it ’er mission to make me do me duty j
as a good woman she couldn’t let ’er ’usband
go all wrong without sendin’ ’im to gaol so
as’e'd see the error of’is ways. . ,
“She was the noble-’earted, lotig-sufferni,
affectionate wife ’oo wanted ’er ’usband to
return to the bosom of > family. In spite
of ’is ’abit of ’owing bills, an’ only gettin
furniture oh time-payment which e never
paid, an’ letting ’is insurance policies lapse
so as ’is children would be unprovided for,
an’ drinkih’ beei’ an’ making rows, an’ ill-
treatin’ ’is wife, she realised she was ’is
wife and owed a duty to ’im.
“She did ’er duty well. The bosses at the
places I worked at heard the sad story as
she argued with me by the job, urgin’ me to
come ’ome an’ be good; an’ they mostly told
me that if I couldn’t attend to me work I
was no use to them ; an’ every ’ouse I stayed
at they ’eard it. I stayed at a lot, too, to
dodge ’er. If she got ’er money she reckoned
I must be makin’ much more, and if_l didn’t
she reckoned I ought to be at ome so as to
make what I did earn go as far as possible.
When she got very annoyed with me she’d
sool people I owed money on to me.
“So I ’ad to go ’ome, just because it
became too ’ot; an’ a man, especially i when
work’s slack, can’t keep two ’omes goiii. I
was sore, of course; an’ she wanted to argtte
with me because I seemed to ’ave lost all
affection for ’er, in spite of all she’d done for
me !”
He paused and commenced to cut his
tobacco slowly, with his eyes fixed moodily
on the ground.
“I’d have settled ’er 1” exclaimed Dickson,
de “Tlmt’s what I did,” said Smitlisoh. “Do
you blame me?”
Dickson was moved by a sudden excite-
“Wliat 1 You—murdered ’er?” he whis-
w iiat. in u
looked at him quickly.
“No! Didn’t I say I ’ated what I’d ’ave
to face in Sydney! No, I enlisted.”
A shell blew pieces of the vicinity to bits,
filled the air with dust, and pungent smoke
and flying fragments, and sent Dickson fly-
ihg for cover. When he reappeared from his
shelter he saw Smithson, still calmly cutting
tobacco, very little disturbed,
“Phew!” he breathed. That was a close
go!”
“Pooh!” retorted Smithson. What s a
little thing like that to a man oo s been
through ail I ’ave? You oughter ave got
married before you came to the war, son >
Anyway, it’s tucker and shelter, without haw
mg to battle for it—l mean, really battle for
it; and the wife gets ’er money without you
being able to spend it before she can get it.
And, even if she doesn’t, she can’t get at a
man to rouse about it. An’ you’ve got a bit
0 f money yourself, and not too much time to
spend it—why, Lord! you can get blind
drunk ’ere with a bob!”
He looked dreamily at the opposite bank
0 f the trench. "It’s ’Eaven, that’s what it
jg j” said. “An’ I dreamt it was all over
an d we ’ad to go back !”
He arose and spat as if he would deliver
himself of the memory of that dream,
“Let the war go on, I say. Let the Wat
g 0 011) so as a man can *ave a bit of peace!”
GRAVEL-CRUSHER.
Frankenstein.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BLACK as the Pit and as blind as the
bergs of the pole—
Boom ii. ... !
Hymn the purveyors of Death I Ilai'k ! The
long echoes roll
Back from the craters of Doom.
Boom !
We are the guns, the deep-throated all terri-
■ ble ones.
Boom !
Pouring the bloody libation that shrieks as
it runs,
“Room for the conquerors ! Room !”
Boom. . ■ !
We are the guns, blind gods of a blas-
phemous hour.
Boom I
Born, man-begotteii, to ravage and Waste and
devour,
To rifle like ghouls the pale tomb.
Booill •»>. t
Continents tremble and qhake and proud
cities lie low,
BooiiL i l .iui..i.,i.iii..ii.!
Dust to the dust that they rose from dim
ages ago,
Vain stubble that winds shall consume.
Boom: !
We are the guns, the all-terrible conquering
ones!
Boom !
Toil for us! Bleed for us! Die for us,
fathers and sons,
Maids in your beauty’s first bloom.
Waes luiel the guns!
Boom !
VICTORIA.
MAKIE E. J. PITT.


iMm I
N -
I
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queens'and Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
.Victorian Qffioe- 99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves sper cent . on
Automobile
Fire Insurance .
Price 55/- each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
asd
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY ; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
ruUKHAWU roi.ru,
',*»>« IIHf A POM*"
yiQv ' ,
sas
’ x "
k/j -*?s'iS^
mg:
8.8
cunt op 10 &
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls, Barron Gorge
the wonderful hinterland
ounshme , Palm Trees,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and scentc splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
s is /ours for the asking
/?// in this Coupon:-
Apme
Aat/ress.
/o fA» Dr rector of
Intelligence &Tounsf Bureau.
Brisbane, QUEENSLAND.
HU WfefcM
fWSKiS;
*
fas
The Parting Gift .
Wh it Present could lie more appropriate than
a Waterman’s fdeal ? Jt is the Gift which
will keep him in touch with home, the gift
that will enable him to write at length and
to write often A perfect fountain pen —and
there is only one—is just what every soldier
needs. His equipment is not complete with-
out one.
Thousands of Waterman’s Ideals, the
perfect fountain pen, are writing the
letters and diaries of the brave men at the
Front. If your relative or friend hasn't a
Waterman’s Ideal, claim for yourse.f the
privilege of giving him one. Send the
“Saf-tv " type i.’s best for Active Service.
Every Pen Guaranteed. Nibs to suit all hands.
Three types—Regu'ar. Safety, and
Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers S* Jewellers everywhere.
JL. G. SLOAN,
Uyzgcri Corner,
Australia; Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street,Sydney.
Y
m
X
s'
/.
&?z:mr.
%
2
£2
M
jlow To Keep Jtealtby
Almost everybody requires at times a little medicine, that is at once
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time, act as a general tonic. For these purposes there |is no family
medicine better than Beecham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beecham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value. Beccham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
Beectam’s pills
>—<
Prepared only by THOMAS DEECIIAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes. labelled price lO&d (36 pills), (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN."
Vaseline
TV«d« Marl* Rogiatcred
Camphor Ice
Relieves sunburn, wind-
burn, chapped hands
and lips.
“ Vaseline ” Carbolated
for cuts, bruises or insect
bites.
“Vaseline” Capsicum
for sore throat, stiff neck,
sprains and cramps.
Other “Vaseline” Rem-
edies for other needs.
Keep a supply on hand.
For sale at all chemists
and general stores.
Refuse substitutes.
EXQUISrrtTOHJET ACTICIt „
quality
« CKafeiD *°' )Bh * , «».™uioJ.U»»» t \
new YORK.U.S.A.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(ConKulidatrd)
1/State Street. New York. U. S. A.
Montreal Moscow
dfa
The Original
Trauu Marls
Thirty-five years ago an obscure chemist, “MENNFN” by name, impelled
by a sincere desire to afford relief to suffering childhood, evolved
Borated Talcum Powder
A smooth, delicate-textured powder which mothers and nurses, everywhere.
have come to look upon as the purest and best for the relief
of those skin troubles so prevalent in babyhood.
The extreme smoothness of Mennen’s
is the result of applying the special
Mermen process to only the finest talc.
All impurities are eliminated. The
finished product is impalpablyfine and
of unvarying high quality.
For hives, rash. prick!y-heat, chafing
and all the irritations to which the sen-
sitive skin of your baby is subject, use
Mennen's. Rub it in lightly and notice
how promptly the healing, soothing
touch of Mennen’s brings relief.
-- ■
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
Lower Cube Street. Wellington. N.Z. 109 Pitt Street. Sydney. N.S. W.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Ortitnrlea.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
if
TJpprt fMllco CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England.
Insist on “Singletou'B"—refuse all substitutes.
S
*9
pa
“ Nerves”
Oar nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain —known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves wiil remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump ”
—you get irritable—you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
m
The [Vine of Lue
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
th ■ whole nervous system. Try
‘Wincarnis’ for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis' is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarni*
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it. write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & .Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


INGROVITEi
LEATHER IF*
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGKOVITE” Rawhide, whieh
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ask for “DOUBLE EXTRA” Steel
The Finest Grade of Steel for all ordinary purposes
that can be manufactured. Strongly
recommended for work where
High Speed Steel is
not employed.
sdf
asd
fa
sdf
asd
SUPPLIED
IN BARS SPECIALLY
ANNEALED for EASY MACHINING.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Chemicals
Best Prices from Stock or Indent
Soda Ash
Caustic Soda
Sulphide of Sodium
Alum
Sulphate Alumina
Borax
Hypo Soda
Naphthaline
Bicarb Soda
Bichromate Soda
Carbolic
elc., etc.
British Aniline Dyes.
JAMES HARDIE 8 CO..
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Little Collins Street, Melbourne. [3
fasd
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
fa
Tangye Portable Lamplees Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Department
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Handling: the following: High-grade and Well-known Agencless—
TANGYE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers, Pumps of all descriptions.
TANGYE Suction Gas Plants, Winches, Lifting Jacks, Punching Bears, Chain Hoists, Etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm implements.
JOHN BUNCLE & SONS Chaffcutters. E.R.B. Separator Engines. E.R.B. Farm Pump Outfits.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines and Cream Separators. GANE Milking Machines.
Interesting descriptive Catalogues of any of above lines Posted Gratis to any address.
m
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine,
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
—of absolute reliability.
It is the pioneer machine, and holds the world’s record for machines
sold and number of sheep shorn annually.
Efficiency in operation and low cost of upkeep are two factors that have
contributed to its great popularity.
Address your inquiries to the
Australasian Agents: dALGETY & COMPANY I.TD.-- AU. BRANCHES.
WOODWORKERS
m
m
m
THIS NEW SANDER FILES A DEFINITE
NEED IN EVERY WOODWORKING FACTORY
The MATTISON Pneumatic Roll Belt Sdlldcf
Even though your work be something of a special nature, this all-round Sander will
fill your needs. Its adaptability to sand a big variety .of work is largely because
of the many ways it can be “rigged up.”
The price is reasonable, too, and you will want one of them just as quickly a#
you learn how profitably it can be used in your factory. Call and inspect, or write
for No. 11l Sander Bulletin.
SOLE AGENTS:
ARKE & LACY GO. LTD.,
Enjhters, Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYIiNEY
Bruce Peebles & Co. Ltd.
ENGINEERS, EDINBURGH.
HIGH-CLASS ELECTRICAL MACHINERY of every description.
DYNAMOS, ALTERNATORS, BOOSTERS, BALANCERS, TURBO-ALTERNATORS,
MOTOR GENERATORS, ROTARY CONVERTERS,
MOTOR CONVERTERS (Peebles La Cour Patents)
A.C. AND D.C. MOTORS OF ALL TYPES. MOTORS IN STOCK.
Pull Particulars from—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE
BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
Local Enquiries to
'Sutherland and Ashman Pty. Ltd., 879 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Parsons and Robertson Ltd., Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Construction Co. of Australia Ltd., Preston House, Brisbai
■ ■
m
am
Wsm
TWO 380 K.V.A. PE6BI.ES ALTERNAtORS at Messrs. B. L. Scrutton’s WorKS, Sydney.
