

THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. Q. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street,, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors' Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
We Advance
all classes of
security
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “ DAILY TELEGRAPH ” NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTACE BENNETT, Genetal Manager
if??* 1 !*!,
■w~: - -
•*»-
HEfILTHY HOME"
Oxidising' Sewage Disposal.
Over 400 Successful Installations in New
South Wales. Leading Doctors, Hospitals and
Convents have this Process Installed. Other
Systems easily converted to Oxidising Process.
Prices based in ratio to number of persons,
as few examples quoted: Six Persons, £ 40; 50
Persons, £100; 500 Persons, £275 ; 1000 Per-
sons, £540. We take over and maintain our
installations from One Guinea per annum.
The Montgomerie-Ne Ison Process,
50 Young Street (late Offices of the Education
Department), Sydney Tel., City 8976.
THE BEST !
ft
s
a
m
M
wpltwL
IS
m
r i
vjmtm
22
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as be;ng
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
J
HANSENS
k
TABLETS
for INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
“Not tho same as others
MALTHOID- -the correct roofing.
Use Malthoid for a large or small building; use it for bungalows; use it for sheds and for every roof, when efficiency and
economy are demanded.
Resists all weather conditions; never dries out or rots, and costs less than half the price of galvanised-iron.
MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE
permanently resists moisture, and will not “ b'red ’’ from
heat, compression or any other Cause.
Samples and booklet mailed post free from THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPAMY (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL &. FARM WAGGONS. IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDER DISCS.
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
<5 (3
MACHINERY.
In spite of War and Submarines CAN SUPPLY IMMEDIATELY:
“ROBEY'S” famous STEAM PORTABLE ENGINES: S Nominal h.p.
14 Nominal h.p. 16 Nominal h.p.
“NATIONAL” World-renowned Oil & Petrol Engines, from If to 7 Brake
Horsepower.
“NATIONAL” Suction-Gas Engines, 18 & 46 Brake Horsepower.
“NATIONAL” Suction-Gas Plant, suitable for about lOOb.h.p Engine.
“NATIONAL” Town’s Gas Engines. 41 to 26 Brake Horsepower.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
KENDALL & GENT LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAYLEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
GLOBE PNEUfIATIC ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
WEBSTER & BENNETT.
OPALQID
TOOTH
mstf
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the MoutiT
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER
The Bulletin
To!. 38.—N0. 1970.]
[Thursday, November 15. 1917
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


the: round table
September, 1917.
A Quarterly Review of the politics of the British Emp
CONTAINS notable articles on The Internal™**;
lem in Germany, After Three Years, Ijr"
after the War, Problems in Democracy and
struction, the United States at War, and intetP 1
contributions from the United Kingdom am
Dominions. Price 2/6 per copy. 10/- P er 31111
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD., Russell Street, Melbourne.
BUSINESS.
How Scientific Management is Applied.
How to Gut Your Coal Bill.
How to Collect Money by Mail.
How to Get More out of Your Factory.
How to Increase Your Sales.
How to Manage an Office.
How to Manage Men.
How to Bun a Shop at a Profit.
How to Systematise Your Factory.
How to Talk Business to Win.
How to Sell More Insurance.
Ho\v to Write Advertisements that Sell.
How r to Write Letters that Win.
Each 3/8, Post Free.
NEW SUPPLY JUST ARRIVED —
SPICER & PEGLER’S
“PRACTICAL AUDITING/'
28/7 Post Free.
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George Street, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
WON PO&ONOU3 POWDER
the great wshj destroyer.
I Hies.
ss
Mokjoßool
Du 90
"MUSTDIE”
POWDER IS
DEATH TO FLIES AND ALL
INSECTS, COCKROACHES, ETC.
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 15
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin; forwarded po.'t e •
“MUSTDIE” is sold in tin*, j
Chemists and Stores. Sent post fr*e on rteeip
stamps by the Sole Australian Agents,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney
DUERDIN & SAINS BURY, Melbourne Agents.
The Red Page
Fiction
‘ Oh,!’ she groaned' passionately. ‘lf
finiy something tvnuld happen. I don’t care
i chat! But something... .something new
~. .exciting. Something with a bite in it!’ ”
And it does —in Frank Swinnerton’s
absorbing novel, A ooturne (Seeker, per
I*y.moelf's Library). This story is a remark-
able piixtLof writing. The author has taken
one night in the lives of two and
made a novel out of it. Between 6 p.m. and
2 a.m. the destinies of four people are
decided; but every hour is weighty with
decisions. Swinnerton writes with distinc-
tion ; he has gifts of observation and genu-
ine humor; and his few characters are worth
the intensive study he makes of them. His
short-story plot amply fills the space of a
long novel. There is a suggestion of Conrad
in Swinnerton’s writing: he dwells on each
incident, ti'ivial or not, until he exti’aets
every implication it possesses, and his
character of the old. childish, semi-paralysed
father, whose helplessness 1 is a tyranny over
the lives of his two daughters, and whose
immobility is the pivot upon which their
destinies are balanced, is certainly a Conrad
type.
Jenny and Emmy are the daughters of a
poor man living in the London' ..suburbs.
Their lives are suburban. Jenny is in the
millinery; Emmy, the elder, has to stay at
home and cook, and look after her semi-
paralysed father. Beneath the love the two
sisters have for each other smoulders a fierce
jealousy. It comes to a head over Alf, who
naturally overlooks the dull Emmy and buys
theatre-tickets for the sprightly Jenny. But
that night wonderful things happen. , Jenny,
who is merely amusing herself with Alf,
sends that amazed youth to the theatre
with her elder sister, and then —! The most
wonderful adventure with a car, a yacht
anchored in the Thames, and the sailorman
she loved. And at supper on the yacht there
was trifle! “Trifle had always been Jenny’s
dream; and this tx-ifle was her dream come
true.... ‘I shall never forget it! When
I’m an 01d... .great-aunt I shall bore all
theNkids with tales about it. I shall say
“That night on the yacht when I first
knew what trifle meant.” They won’t get
half-sick of it. But I shan’t.’ ”
SwinnertoH’s analysis of the mutual dis-
trust of Jenny and her sailorman, each
abjectly in love with each other, their bicker-
ings and their estrangements, their remorse
and their reconcilement, is exquisitely done.
Equally acute is his description of the more
commonplace love-affair of Alf and Emmy.
Alf is tired of his lodgings; “And when I
have a bloater for my bi’eakfast —I’m partial
to a bloater—it’s black outside; and then
inside—w-ell, I like them done all through,
like any other man.... You may think I’m
fussy... .fiddly with my food. I’m not,
really; only I like it ” Then he ventures
a kiss. “He was surpi-ised at her passion.
He had not expected it, and the flattery was
welcome. He grinned a little in the safe
darkness. They were both clumsy and a
little ti-embling, not very practised lovers,
but curious and excited. Emmy felt her hat
knocked a little sideways upon her head.”
This is the real romance.
d*
John Galswox’thy’s Beyond (Heinemann,
per Dymock’s Library) lacks Swinnerton’s
sense of life; it is a carefully constructed
novel, nicely written, a belated echo of the
Galsworthy that was. A mei’e Society novel,
with the plebeians for comic relief—and once
Galsworthy had for his poor a passionate in-
terest quite as genuine as his feeling for
dogs. In Beyond the chief characters are
still fox-hunting people: Galsworthy harks
pathetically back to the England that is now
destroyed. It is also an extraordinarily
intimate novel: the novelist tells you the
thoughts of a young girl on the evening of
her wedding-day, of the distaste his married
heroine has when she knows she is to have a
baby,- and—a whole chapter—of the birth
of the child.
The story is of a girl ill-mated, married
to a musical genius, and after her separa-
tion, and the birth of a child, her “affair”
with one of Galsworthy’s typical fox-hunt-
ing young Englishmen. But having got
his heroine into a fix, he meanly arranges a
fatal riding accident to get her out of it. The
girl’s grim, well-bred English father is a
character in whose delineation this novelist
is skilled; the musical genius and the
dancing-girl are well-enough characterised;
and the heroine is alive. But the story is a
mei’e story: Galsworthy is getting tired.
d*
The bright hopes l-aised by Stella Benson,
author of the utterly mad but delightful
I Pose, ai'e torpedoed by her second novel;
and its title, This Is the End (Macmillan,
per Dymock’s Library), sounds prophetic.
Yet she writes brightly enough. She intro-
duces you to Jay, “a ’bus-conductor and an
idealist.” She admits that Jay is not the
heroine because, she wisely says: “I cannot
introduce you to a. heroine because I have
never met one.” And of Jay she remarks:
“The fundamental facts you and I accept
from our youth upwards, like Be Good and
You Will Be Happy, or Change Your Boots
When You Gome In Out of the Wet, or
Respect Your Elders, or Never Cross Your
Legs Above the Knees, did not impress Jay.”
There are delicate touches of humor and
pathos in this war-time fantasy; but it
doesn’t hang together. Jay’s brother, who
thought himself too ordinary ever tp he shot,
sends back a dying message that death was
just an ordinary old thing, no more romantic
than anything else, without a capital letter.
He was killed by a sniper while he was set-
ting a trap of his own invention to catch
the rats as they came over the parapet. He
had never seen a moment’s real romantic
fighting; he had never once felt patriotic or
di’amatie or dutiful. In his delirium he
mixed up the rats and the Boches: “He said
that these creatures didn’t know they were
vermin; thqy thought they were honest aver-
age animals doing their bit, and then sud-
denly killed by a malignant chaos!” But
her fantasy wears thin. Perhaps the best
thing in the book is this bit of verse:
At sunset, when the high seas spaa
Above the rocks a web of foam,
I saw the ghost of a Cornishman
Come home.
I saw the ghost of a Cornishman
Run from the weariness of War,
I heard him laughing as he ran
Across his unforgotten shore.
The great cliff, gilded by the west,
Received him as an honored guest.
The green sea, shining in the bay,
Did drotfn his dreadful yesterday.
Come home, come home, you million ghosts,
The honest years shall make amends,
The sun and moon shall be your hosts,
The everlasting hills your friends,
And some shall seek their mothers’ faces,
And some shall run to trystirfg-places,
And some to towns, and others yet
Shall find great forests in their debt.
Oh, I would siege the golden coasts
Of space, and climb high heaven’s dome,
So I might see those million ghosts
Come home.
d*
Every year Edward J. O’Brien reads all
the short stories published in America, and
proclaims those that are best. The Best
Short Stories of 1916 (Small, Maynard, Bos-
ton, per Sydney Book Club) is his latest
directory of American short stories. His
judgment is that the American short story
cannot be reduced to a literary formula: it
is still in the interesting process of develop-
ing its own technique. During the preceding
year O’Brien read 2500 stories: he gives a
precis of 50, compiles an index of the 2500,
prefixing asterisks to indicate varying de-
grees of permanent . literary value, and
analyses all the magazines in order to dis-
cover the number and percentage of distinc-
tive stories they published. We learn that
Scribner’s contains the highest percentage
of distinctive stories, followed, in this order,
by The Century, The Bellman, Harper’s
and The Masses ; and that Harper’s
leads in the aggregate contest with 65 dis-
tinctive stories; while The Stratford Jour-
nal published only three stories, all of which
are of the highest distinction. He finds that
the best shdrt-story writers in America dur-
ing 1916 were Wilbur Daniel Steele and
Katherine Fullerton Gerould. Of the new
periodicals of that year The Seven Arts
Magazine is the most promising. From his
final list the editor selects 20 short stories,
though most of these greatly exceed the
length which we have been accustomed to
allow to that genre in Australia. There are
some brilliant stories in this selection; but
many are too American for our Australian
tastes, and several of them are unreadable
owing to their aggressive dialect.
Arthur Smyth: I read in your issue 25th
Oct., Red Page—speaking of Zora Cross’s
Love Sonnets: “Here for the first time in
modern English literature, a woman poet
becomes articulate.” I was wondering, when
I read this amazing statement, whether you
were familiar with Elizabeth Barrett Brown-
ing’s Sonnets from the Portuguese. Surely
if you were, you would have scarcely had
the temerity to make such a statement.
[The answer is that this page was familiar
with the Sonnets from the Portuguese when
it made the statement which Arthur Smyth,
without having apparently read the book,
finds amazing.]
“Huffln-GufflD”: Read over the nursery rimes to
my two nursery-rime aged young Australians. Waited
to hear which they repeated while at play afterwards.
“Kookaburra” was running in their minds—but noth-
ing connected. “Captain Cook” was memorised at
once. But suddenly my eight-year-old stopped in
his play, ran to me and said: “Don’t think much of
that Captain Cook yarn. If he broke his hook he
couldn’t have caught Australia. As he didn’t catch
it, how could he write a book about it?”
A correspondent is annoyed at The Ascaniax,
noticed R.P. 13/9/T7, claiming that titlfe. He for-
wards a copy of The Ascasian, dinkum edition,
issued long before the other publication on that
transport. Possibly the editors of The Ascanian
No. 2 had never heard of their prehistoric prede-
cessor. It’s a bright little newspaper, too.
N. M. Chisholm, somewhere in France: What Bill-
jim reads depends on he gets to read. In our
crowd there is quite a library of decent poetry. It
has reached its popularity only through one or two
whose appreciation for good reading has brought
about a lot more looking for the same stuff. One
chap carries Shakespeare about with him, another
looks after Adam Lindsay Gordon, A. B. Paterson
and Henry Lawson, while another takes his hat off
to Omar Khayyam. The Sentimental Bloke and
Ginger Mick had a good rim, and more of this
author we want to see. My argument is, when send-
ing papers and periodicals, don’t forget to drop in a
few small editions of good Australian poetry.
War
Edwyn Bevan contrives to give a new. in-
terest to a war-worn theme, the case between
Germany and ourselves, in The Method in
the Madness (Arnold, per Sydney Book
Club). He grants that before the war
arrived the great bulk of Germans did not
desire the war; though when it came the
great bulk of the Germans solidly endorsed
it. For Germans had a permanent griev-
ance against geography anil history; these
had been, they felt, distinctly unfair to Ger-
many ; so they determined to smash both.
“The origin of the present catastrophe is the
temper of the German people in 1914—the
craving for vague splendid things, the un-
questioning credulity with which they were
ready to follow their rulers into a prodigi-
ous adventure.” The author conclusively
disproves the German journalistic common-
place that England had long determined to
crush Germany because of her growing com-
mercial competition. ITe asks how many of
the million young men who volunteered
early in the war were tormented by the
thought of there being so many German
machines- or toys or lenses in the market?
If England had wanted to eliminate Ger-
man competition she had only to put on Pro-
tective tariffs. And yet England took with
profound placidity the rapid growth of
American commercial competition. Speak-
ing of Germany’s new desire to concentrate
all her colonial activities in one huge tract
in Africa, the author notes that what Ger-
many wants is “a German African empire,
armed to the teeth —as comfortable an ele-
ment in the Africa of.the future as Germany
itself has been in Europe!”
The author investigates without bias the
“lies” of. this war in a most interesting
chapter. He points out that either side can
make out of the same battle a victory or a
defeat. “You thrust back the enemy such
and such a distance at such and such a
point, and claim a success; the enemy has
only to attribute to you a design to push
him back much farther or at a larger num-
ber of points, and he can represent you as
having failed. When the enemy pushes you
back you say the same thing of him.” Thus
only the final result of the war can visibly
demonstrate whether the German invasion
of France was a success, or a failure. The
author treats fully the question of atrocities.
There are English people who still believe
that the Germans are innocent of those
atrocities; they are the only English who
could take the hand of a German after the
war “without an inner recoil.” The author
says that though it is unlikely Englishmen
will say anything about those charges to the
ante-bellum Germans, “they will still be
there, black and dreadful, in the minds of
Englishmen -when they met Germans so long
as any men now living are on the earth.”
Bevaii admits that a certain proportion of
the stories of German atrocities are untrue;,
he mentions the woman whose breasts were
cut off, and the stories of Belgian's whose
hands had been cut off by the Germans. The.
interesting things about these stories, how-
ever, is that, though certain papers printed
them in good faith, others refused, investi-
gated, and traced them to their hysterical
sources. Thus the English themselves ex-
posed them —a tribute to British honesty.
The Germans, when they do not point-blank
deny every atrocity as inconceivable among
such a highly-cultured people, suggest that
terrified people are apt to have bad mem-
ories. But this plea “does not explain nuns
got with child” or the reports of official in-
vestigators ; while “from what we knew of
the Germans before the war, there was no
inherent impossibility in these stories.” The
Germans also say that the rigid discipline of
their army renders it unthinkable that their
troops should get out of hand. This is to
mistake our charge: we assert that these
crimes were committed by order. “It is this
regulated inhumanity which gives the atroci-
ties their special" quality of horror.”
There are good Germans in Germany;
but they exercise no influence upon the
action of Germany. It must be remembered
that good men in Germany contemplate, with
complacency, or even applause, the Lusi-
tania sinking and the Belgian deportations:
they have no revulsion from atrocious
actions if performed by the Fatherland. The
• philosopher, Rudolf Euken, declared indig-
nantly that neither he nor his friends knew
anything about Bernhardi. That was just
it: they ought to have known. “If a man
walking through the midst of a horrible
smell tells you that he detects no odor, you
infer that he has not a sensitive nose.” The
frequent charge that we committed worse
atrocities in the Boer War is neatly refuted
by the German official history of that war;
and Bevan quotes the summing-up of that
history prepared by the Great General Staff,
Berlin, justifying the British !
d*
Hermann Fernau, author of Because I am
a German, continues his enlightenment of
his German countrymen with The Coming
Democracy (English translation published
by Constable; 65.). He pertinently asks
how German historians can possibly explain
to posterity the enthusiasm and unanimity
with which the Germans rushed into this
war. Already Germany has officially ad-
mitted that the attack by French aviators
upon German cities, upon which th P <•/
declaration of war on France wax
based, was a pure fiction of The ft* 11 *
Government. On the general question of
cause ot wars the author has onh f the
answer : “ Cherchez la dynastic!" Perm, °“ e
sists that the Germans are not a politick
people; not even in trade unions are ftf
mans allowed to discuss politics ilia
“tty, the author urovidef us
definition of diplomats: “Anarchists inkiJ
gloves, who, m their conversation, with rl!
utmost'amiability and discretion, make cm
stant allusion to their provision of bombs it,'
order to give more emphasis to their ’ f V
1 up '
• F?i Vn ? U f how ? how bellind all the German
intellectuals always stands the German
dynasty—with the whip. It is always
piciously watching its professors ‘ “Tht
dynasty, which in Prusso-Germany dispose
of every dignity, title and office* lias exer
cised over the nation for the last 100 vear „
an intellectual terrorism which scarcely
weighs upon the present generation which
outwardly is scarcely perceptible and which
it is quite impossible for foreign nations to
understand.” The mistake that we make
about German culture is that we believe it
emanates from the people, since we cannot
conceive that a national idea of right and of
culture could be dictated front above. p e r-
nau’s contention is that this war must com-
plete the work of the French Revolution—
the destruction of dynasties: the civil consti-
tution in every State must henceforth be
republican ; and in the peace terms this Ger-
man wants to see a provision that any
attempt in any State to limit the supreme
powers of its Parliament shall give the right
to all other States’ to frustrate that action
by force of arms. It is a law of nature that
all dynasties have the will to power; they
are dangerous beasts, perpetually needing
the curb. A nation with a constitution
mediaeval, militarist and autocratic will con-
tinually tend towards war. The world's job
will be to bring the constitution of Germany
up to date; at present she is in the condition
of England and France 150 years ago.
The Round Table for September (2s.
6d.) is an excellent issue. It points out the
depressing fact that after three years of war
not one of the purposes of the Empire in
going to war has yet been fulfilled —or looks
like being fulfilled in the near future. Yet
this* quarterly is assured of ultimate victory
for the Allies —and now comes the Italian
disaster 1 An elucidative article deals with
the internal problem in Germany. Prussia
is not a mediaeval State; judged by its bank-
ing laws, its System of internal communica-
tions, its successful financial policy, its social
legislation, its State insurance, its legal pro-
cedure, and its codification of the Civil Law,
it is a model to all other modern States.
Enlightened Germans look upon their coun-
try as a great business concern, a syndicate;
they desire the most competent management,
and naturally also an expansion in the
wealth and power of the firm. And in all
this internal development the part played
by the sovereign has been small. Another
valuable article considers the financial
conditions of the world if the war should end
to-morrow. The author’s forecast may be
summarised thus: (1) A rise in the price of
commodities throughout the world. The
causes of high prices will not disappear at
the advent of peace. But the comforting
assurance comes that “as in the United King-
dom the percentage rise in prices is roughly
equal to the percentage increase in the
national debt (each 110 per cent.) the pro-
portion of the production of the United King-
dom required to pay the fixed interest on the
indebtedness of the community will be no
greater than before, although the amount
of interest will be much higher reckoned in
terms of money.” Owing to the rise in
prices, creditor countries, such as England,
will receive less interest, since that interest
will be paid off by a smaller amount of
higher-priced commodities. Vice versa, a
debtor country like Australia will benefit by
paying off its loan with a fewer number of
commodities. In the case of Canada the
author asserts that this actual reduction
in the Canadian debt will more than counter-
balance any actual increase in the amount
of their external debt. (2) There will also
be an unusual wor.ld-\yide activity in industry
and commerce, limited by a shortage ot
transport, with, possibly, difficult credit,
and widespread labor unrest. (3) The de-
velopment, later on, of new countries, m
order to utilise capital no longer needed tor
repair work of the world’s equipment and
the provision of the world's food. The fur-
ther problem of the repayment of the nation s
national debts is merely touched upon; DU
the author suggests several ingenious asa
drastic schemes.


A.
XL
ANTHONY HORDERNS’for SILVERPLATE SATISFACTION
|«4 klk mil a f'- 4 A i
No. 3235.-—Tea Spoons & Sugar Tongs,
in Case, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
assorted designs, 9/6, 11/6, 12/6, 14/6,
15/6, 17/6, 21/-
No. 3416. —-.Tain Spoon & Butter Knife,
in Case, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, assorted
desi §’ ns 8/6, 9/-, 10/6, 11/-
B
■3 f
m
__
m
No. 2666. Soup Spoons, in Oak Case, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver; plain Old English design 21/-
■t'r~ Vir' i
M
No. 3980. Cake Forks, silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, in Case, new design, with knite-
edge, assorted designs 13/6
Nor Cx4G,*—-Inkstand, Handsome Engraved Design, suit-
able for School Presentation 37/g
£
W
A
«i
>’
Anthony Horderns'
.fop Xmas Presents
NTHONY HORDERNS’Xmas
Price Lists place the im=
mense resources of the New
Palace Emporium at the
command of everyone in Australia,
and will solve the present problem.
Gift-giving on economical lines is
assured by ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES. Here are
the Xmas Price Lists, which will be
ready at the end of the month,
post free on request:—
Useful Gifts & Popular Presents ;
Xmas Grocery, Perfumery and
Tobacco ;
Books for Xmas & Leisure Hours;
Guide to Piccaninnies’ Paradise.
Si
'« .
8»
m
mi
mm
£4mM.
H
m
No. 2305. —Fruit Salad Service, in Case, Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver 27/0
kJ
4a
a*
>4,
sj&ssa
g£3
5221. Serve-alls, in Case, for fruit, etc., Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver y'^j
No. 1061.—Oak Liquor Frame,
First Quality Electro-plated Mounts,
3 Out-Glass Bottles, Handsomely
Finished, with Lock 70/-
2 Cut-Glass Bottles 60/-
m
m
■
No. 5G90.—Cake Forks and Servers, in
Case, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, assorted
designs 18/6
*, ■:
3
in
l
C-*
M
No. F298. —Cake Forks, Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver 11/6
Other designs .. ... 9/6, 11/6, 12/6, 13/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


X
£
*sr
*
a
a
A
r*
* ¥s
’J:
>'*
He 9 IK Be Happy
When He Gets This
Whether “Jim” is on a man-of-war or in
a trench, he’s going to have long-lasting
refreshment and a lot of benefit from
WRIGLEYS
The Famous Chewing Sweei
3d. per packet
of 5 big bars
3&S*
gug
THE.
GVJJS
WING
CH
Send it to your loved one
—use it yourself regularly
for your teeth, breath,
appetite and digestion.
At all dealers, or send 3
penny stamps for a trial
packet to J. C. Gambles
& Coy, Commerce House,
Melbourne.
Made in Australia
The
flavour
Lasts
i
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a handf
)
?0 y\IIARJTY m
XRTSIS O
SIX
-J
x
Ariel Ascendancy in Australasia
Firmly Established.
An Ariel Agent in New Zealand says:
“When things are normal again we anticipate a good demand
for Ariels. Without exception every rider we have is a
satisfied one.”
Ariel Works Ltd. * 36 Bournbrook, Birmingham, Eng.
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street. ADELAIDE : 152 Rundle Street.
MELBOURNE : Elizabeth Street.
H
No. E6244
"MILLER”
Lighting Fixtures
Manufactured by the famous house
of" Miller” are known and appreci-
ated the World over, they are to
be found in almost every country
throughout the Universe.
A large variety of styles
ELECTRIC, GAS and OIL
for all requirements are at
your disposal.
Ascessories of every description. Look
over the "Miller” line it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the beat Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
Meriden, Conn. U. S. A.
THE BEST
MOKE
IS
ELLOW
ASTER
" TOBACCO
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
ROBERTS MOTORS TOR BOATS
16 H.P., Bore 3$ inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
H.P.,
Bore 3$ inch.
Stroke 4 inch.
4 H.P.,
Bore 34 inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
The Roberts 2=Cycle Motors
have demonstrated to their world users that economically
patented features, coupled with carefulness in construction,
produce as good satisfaction in this motor at a low price as can
e obtained by other high-priced motors. We are open for
dealers for this country. Specifications and terms furnished on
application. Roberts Standard Marine Type, 4-16 h.p.
Heavy duty, slow speed, 8 h.p.
ROBE RTS MOTO JtS
Robert!, Motor Manufacturing Co., 11 Broadway, New York City, L.S.A.
CARLE ADDRESS: ■‘‘ROMOCO.” Il__


[CHRISTIE^
SPPCMUJf
TWO
L /NES
WQiTE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS*/
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZC /iO/NJTER § T NEWCASTLE
JJquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATIR
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
Used the
World Over
n
MOTOR
...CARS
ARE YOU M
UPTU reD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IS
mm
Wm-
mm
■
¥k*:-:*SSt«
■m
WYY
m
m A
VW
muM% (u*S'A)
FOR
WA&HUT'naK
§mw.:
JiDr- Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
nobtamable locally it will be posted direct
plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
JUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
t , Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
_ • SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
illustration appearing in The
Mano ETIN t akes . your fancy, write to the
ager, who will quote you price for it.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the month produce a
most soothing' and cura-
tive effeft in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma O. All Chest
Affections.
1/6 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHAR9 & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
W'l
f \
[2
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL <& CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
ALL aver the world, wherever rep-
JuA resentative motorists gather, for
* sport or business, Firestone
Tyres predominate.
Firestone has originality of design
and reliable performance, safety with
speed and economical going.
All who demand the highest standards
of travel look for the name“ Firestone”
on tubes as well as tyres.
Grim ley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co:, Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for Illustrated Literature
res
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Little Dancer in O’Brien’s Lane.
She beat the happy pavement
With her lithe, little feet;
It seemed they were the winds of Spring,
They were so light and fleet!
They might have been the summer sun
They were so soft and warm,
As in and out and round about
They wove their happy charm.
Her eyes perhaps w T ere violets
That hid themselves from view,
Beneath the droop of hooding lids
To sparkle like the dew!
But times they flashed so swallow-swift,
Her little feet in tune,
They might have been the diamonds
That in the stars commune.
Her lips were like a waratah
That mocks the rose of noon;
Her teeth were white as scallop-shell,
Or pearls that take the moon;
Her looks were just a bookay
Of all most good and sweet;
And yet I swear she conquered me!
With her lithe, little feet!
N.S.W
MARY GILMORE.
Capeweed at Wagga.
The hills round Wagga Town are splashed
With capeweeds, like a shower of gold,
And, from their petals, sunshine flashed
Illuminates the rich, red mould.
The air is sweet with sounds of Spring,
Of bird, and bee and gentle wind,
As though old Nature loved to fling
Thoughts of the winter months behind.
The birds are singing as they woo —•
Singing the better to persuade;
The sky to-day is azure blue,
The far-off hills a deeper shade.
And yet in Wagga Town are hearts
Untuned for thoughts of joyous Spring,
Each flower and sound some mem’ry starts,
And blinding tears to sad eyes bring.
Thoughts come of graves in distant lands,
Which Spring will deck with gold and red,
But where no gentle, loving hands
Can tend those places of the dead.
Yet time will mould with kindly hand
Their sorrows till they soften down;
And glad, still eyes will understand
The Capeweed flowers of Wagga Town.
VICTORIA.
GEORGE SCOTT.
Port Nicholson.
To-night I hear again the sea that growls on
Barrett’s crown;
I crunch the beach with sodden feet to drag
the old boat down—
The sodden boat that carried me on nights
when God was near,
To face the wild and stinging salt with men
who had no fear.
Hard pulling out from Angels’ Rest that
cuddles ’neath the stars —
Oh, loving oars that bit the deep and opened
angry scars!
Oh, guiding sweep I sobbed upon to hold her
to the fight,
And jambed her nose ’twixt Davy Jones and
old Pencarrow’s Light....
Those days are very far away; they’ll never
come again ;
Now, life is full of cushioned things and—
vanity in vain !
But praise the Lord who tamed the storms
in lov&d Gallilee
I’ll meet them in sou’-westers yet, and head
for open sea.
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.
When I W T as Six.
When I was only six years old,
Heigh-ho ! for Folly O !
I wandered in a fairy fold,
Heigh holly ! to and fro.
I rode upon a blossom’s back
Up hill and over sea;
And all the little pixie pack
For fun would follow me.
Oh, golden w T as the gown I wore
Of buttercups and air.
And twenty diamond stars or more
Were pinned upon my hair.
All day I chased the laughing sky
Above the busy town,
But when the moon unwinked her eye.
Ho, ho! I hurried down.
And then within the baby’s shoe
I hid my lady’s pearls.
From maid to merry maid I flew
And knotted all their curls.
I pulled the preacher’s saintly gown,
And lost his open page.
I tickled out the withered frown
Of every sallow sage.
And when the children were abed,
I tapped the window-pane,
And laughed as someone softly said:
“Whist! goblins there again !’’
Ho, ho ! I flitted here and there
Amid my elfin band,
While on the green, in frolic fair,
We tripped it hand in hand.
As air and moonlight I was free
Within that fairy fold,
For all the world belonged to me
When I was six years old.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


I
:
US THALIA N A £) £-
Made in Three Grades :
“WATERSHED,
” the Good
Red Hose.
u
CATARACT,
” Perdriau’s Famous
BLACK HOSE.
u
PROSPECT,”
a Cheap Hose
that is reliable.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALSO MELBOURNE,ADELAIDE,BRISBANE* PERTH.
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers
IMPROVED
CRUTCHES.
These Crutches are made and
designed specially to give
every possible comfort, and at
the same time combining
Lightness with Strength. The
prices, too, are particularly
reasonable.
No. 9.
22(6
per pair
plus freight.
No. 10.
WtT
Special Patent Spring Head
Crutches as supplied to Red
Cross Society.
35/-
per pair
plus freight.
D
YER
Besides being large
Makers and Importers of
all Artificial Limbs and
Hospital
Denyer Bros, are Sole
Agents for the world-
known “Marks” Ameri-
can artificial limbs.
DENYER BROS.
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts,
and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
m
rc,
vrt
T
354
i
fJOS
/i
N
4;
SPEND YOUR
AFTERNOONS ON
THE VERANDAH
not in the kitchen. Let the “Rex’ '
Chefs stand at your command
during the hot summer months.
One of their most popular foods is
“REX” CAMP PIE :
A dainty Meat Treat that comes to you ready to
serve. It saves hours of work in a sweltering
kitchen.
"REX” CAMP PIE is a most appetising dish,
made from the choicest meats, cooked and
seasoned in the exclusive "REX” way. It is
worthy of particular notice from every housewife
in these days of high meat prices.
"REX” CAI(IP PIE is more economical than
fresh meat, yet equally nourishing.
Get a tin to-day. You can serve
it cold. (Put the tin on ice for 10
or 15 minutes, and notice how
firm the jelly turns out).
The addition of any kind of salad
makes It more enjoyable.
* *
All Grocers sell " REX CAMP PIE. There
can be no substitute if you say
“Rex” Brand, please.
When you desire a new*
Sandwich spread, try
“Rex” Ham Pate
or
“Rex” Veal and ,
Tongue Pate.
They are all Pure Meat and
make dozens of different
appetising sandwich fillings
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Packers of " Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of “ Rex " Hams and Bacon J2B
e
c<<
..
- ■-uir M
GOODRICH
FULL-SIZE
TYRES
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.’’
BLAME IT ON THE TYRE.
He didn’t pump it full enough, though all the air is free;
He left it soft and spongy-like, and scooted on with glee;
He skidded and he gridded and whooped through dust and mire,
And when it burst
He cursed and cursed
And blamed it on the tyre.
He drove it on the street-car tracks with confidence superb;
He scraped it on the lamp-posts and he scraped it dn the kerb;
He slammed it and he jambed it any way he might desire.
And when it popped,
Right out he hopped,
And blamed it on the tyre.
He cut it on some broken glass, but said that didn’t hurt;
He kept right on through sand and mud and filled the cut with dirt.
It spotted there and rotted there ami soon he howled in ire,
When up it blew,
He blew’ up too,
And blamed it on the tyre.
He put on chains that ground and chewed and gouged into the tread,
He knew’ his wheels were out of line, “But what of that?” he said.
He whizzed along and sizzed along, he picked up nails and wire,
And w’hen it banged
His fists he wranged,
And blamed it on the tyre.
Who is this man? Go ask the boys who meet him every day.
Go ask the boys who have to hear the things he has to say.
He bores in and he roars in with words of angry fire.
Though he’s to blame,
It’s all the same—
He blames it on the tyre.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE,
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY,
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MacCallum, Perth; Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1970.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1917.
Price 6d.
A CURE FOR COLD FEET.
[214 George street, Sydney.]


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Tin:
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters arc liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City Neivs Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Boz., Id.; Bloz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, koz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1917.
THE ORGANISATION OF OPPOR-
TUNITY TO GRAPPLE WITH
NECESSITY.
So long as Australia could buy a steamer
built on the Clyde, or hire the services of
vessels constructed at Yokohama or Belfast
or Hamburg, there was, of course, in the
judgment of easy-going politicians, no reason
why the country should not continue leaning
up against the outside shipbuilder. It
was an easy way of getting ships and satis-
fying the local demand for transport facili-
ties, and as there were mountains of meat
and wool at this end of the world waiting to
be shifted to the other end, and warehouses
over yonder full of boxes ready to be dragged
in the direction of the Commonwealth, the
individuals who wanted the meat and nailed
up the cases found in the construction of
steamers an easy way of making money and,
incidentally, adding to their industrial
output. If Australians had been obliged to
build steamers, in consequence of the other
party being addicted to depending on some-
one else, the article would have been forth-
coming through the sheer necessities of the
situation, and no one would have said that
the proceedings were an outrage on Provi-
dence. That it would have been a very excel-
lent thing for Australia if this had occurred
is not a matter to be argued about, for even
the dullest foreign-trader can see now the
national - advantages which would have
accrued from shipbuilding and the accumula-
tion of assets instead of eternally hunting
round for a job at pitching borrowed millions
into a sink. It would even now be good for
Australia if, after a reasonable interval, not
another ship of any description built
in another country was ever again avail-
able for purchase or hire to carry
away Australian produce or bring hither the
Spring millinery and the exotic clothes-peg.
The result would be a prompt realisation
that the foundation of industrial development
and national efficiency is identified with work
that the organisation of industry is not a
matter calling for blither having no relation
to the practical affairs of life, but is some-
thing that must grow out of actual effort to
"Tapple with the needs of the community.
Australia is in dire need of a greater popu-
lation and a larger technical equipment.
These can only be acquired with painlul
slowness unless the vice of keeping people
out of the country by sending them work to
do elsewhere is abandoned, and the machinery
and imagination necessary for supplying our
wants are here in Australia instead or
beyond the horizon. The circumstances of the
country are in some ways different from those
of any other place on earth. In the indus-
trial sense Australia has scarcely commenced
to be alive. The entire industrial system
has been resting too long on the unsteady
basis of loan money. The market which
might have been open to Australian industry
has been overrun by the easily-acquired im-
portation. The tariff has very largely been
no better than a device for taxing the citi-
zens and by a roundabout process appro-
priating loans to ordinary revenue, there-
fore when organisation of industry is
spoken of here it means something
that it doesn’t in other countries. W hat
Australia has to organise is, first, her
own market. Having done that, production
gets a chance; there is then a demand for
technical skill; there is the groundwork for
enterprise to get busy upon. But until that
market is kept free from the articles which
should, and could, be made in Sydney or
Melbourne or Tibooburra —until we correct
this lunacy of exhausting the public credit
in getting masses of goods which cannot be
paid for by the people who use them—prac-
tically everything which may be. done in the
way of industrial development in Australia
is devoid of even the first element of per-
manency or reality.
* * * *
Australian citizens who have advocated
the organisation of industry in the Common-
wealth have never, so far as The Bulletin
knows, been afflicted with a yearning to see
the Federal or State Parliaments rush in
and, before anything was on its legs, start
promoting combines and associations, after
the hurried method suggested by Prime
Minister Plughes. Nor have they ever been
demented enough to suppose that complicated
systems which might conceivably work with
satisfactory consequences in places where
industrial effort is carried on upon a vast
scale, could suddenly be introduced to. a
country faced with the problem of starting
at the beginning of things. Neither has there
ever been the slightest evidence to make
anyone suspect that a reckless and extrava-
gant race of politicians would be the best
people to take a directing hand in the details
of industry which their follies had been
strangling. The duty of the politician to
the country is in another direction alto-
gether. His business is to ensure a just
distribution of the wealth created by the
national effort, and, in particular relation to
the Commonwealth’s industrial growth, to
do nothing to obscure the vital fact that
Australia is a nation in the making, with a
future dependent wholly upon the productive
enterprise of the people and their ability to
satisfy their requirements by their own exer-
tion. This is the beginning, middle and end
of the Protection doctrine in its Australian
setting—-its objective an Australia self-con-
tained in the sense of being self-reliant; an
Australia nationally efficient. There are
wild humorists who can prove to the satis-
faction of the Sydney Telegraph and the
Argus that it would be economically bene-
ficial to Australia if all hands adjourned to
the country and, by stupendous efforts, in the
conservation of water and production of
crops, so increased the number of jumbucks
and other live stock as to fill up double the
number of foreign-owned steamers hitherto
used to shift meat and wool off the premises.
The yarn to this effect also comprises the
allegation that ‘‘secondary” industries could
then be brought to their level by chopping
the tariff wall down, and that in the end the
national trade transactions would show a
balance on the credit side and everyone be
better off. That, of course, would, in a
way, represent the organisation of indus-
try, and in a narrow interpretation of the
national future there is something to be said
for it. But such a proceeding implies look-
ing forward to an Australia dependent on
the outsider for everything, including his
appetite for chops and steak and his prefer-
ence for wool as an article of clothing. Yet
this vision of a nation of cockies and im-
porters is not any more calamitous than that
surreptitiously entertained by Australian
Parliaments which, while pretending solici-
tude for the development of manufactures
in the Commonwealth, direct public policy
along lines which smother our industries
under a loan-promoted demand for foreign
goods, and stifle the impulse to work. Even
the war has failed to curb them in their wild
career. For a country with the population
of Australia to talk about industrial develop-
ment or organisation, or whatever it is,
while seven Parliaments borrow millions
every year’ on the credit of the future with
which to cover the land under a flood of im-
ported goods, would, if it were taken seri-
ously, be a rare example of human fatuity.
Australia is a wide country. It is almost
empty. It is burdened with a load of debt
which with a continuance of prevailing con-
ditions will certainly be insupportable. To
an increase of productive effort the nation
con alone look for salvation. There is no
reason why this should not be accomplished,
provided Parliament can brace itself up to
the point of insisting that the Commonwealth
shall knock off inciting other countries to
greater manufacturing productivity in order
to supply Australia with imports. And it
can do this only by framing a tariff which
will make the production of particular-
articles in Australia compulsory and by throw-
ing the calamitous foreign loan policy over-
board. Time after time politicians have
fervently proclaimed -their anxiety to do
this, and just as often have done either noth-
ing or the reverse of what they promised.
What is wanted of them now is an intelli-
gent handling of the tariff. It is a simple
job. It is the' preliminary to industrial
development in all its forms. Heaven alone
knows what position the country will find
itself in after the war; but assuming that
it will still retain a measure of freedom to
order its future, the job of laying the foun-
dations for a national industrial growth will
be still on hand. Unless we have an iron-
clad fiscal Protection that will enforce the
production, we will without a doubt have
the Protection of a miserable poverty, with-
out either the skill or the population to
employ the materials at hand to adequate
national advantage. If Parliament will
organise the opportunity for industry to
take root and grow in Australia, it will
have done its job. In the meantime if it
does no more than sit ineptly by with
folded hands, while Prime Ministers laaie
out nothing but wind about the perfect in-
dustrial life before there has been an indus-
trial birth, then will the future be mostly
an ash-heap. To-morrow is not going to be
yesterday over again, with plenty of time
to spare for vague talk and playing with a
thimble and pea. Under the nrnst favorable
conditions conceivable it is going to be a
time for doing things that matter a time
for Australia to realise that some rational
explanation must be given of why men who
build ships and do a multitude of other
things' are not doing these things in the
Commonwealth instead of residing elsewhere
and doing them for us.
THE MEN WHO WENT AND THE
MEN WHO WONT.
Private William James, Australian sol-
dier, sprang out of a ditch in France the
other morning with a bayonet in one hand
and a bomb in the other —and disappeared
into a reek of mud and smoke and flame.
William was recovered during the night
by stretcher-bearers and next day was
buried. He had no personal quarrel with
whoever it was that killed him, but he had
a very abrupt difference of opinion with the
country which made war on this Australia
of his; and because William James had
believed that what to him was the only
country on earth worth living in was also
worth fighting for, he had gone to meet the
enemy, while those of his countrymen who
remained at home said he had done the fine
thing, was a patriot and a man, and had
imposed upon them obligations they could
never forget. Well, William struck liis
blow for human freedom and Australian
liberty according to schedule, and so doing
died. Is that the end of it? Do our obliga-
tions to William end with his death? Was
William fighting for his homeland and
democracy? If not, why did the volun-
tarists incite him to go? He did
not finish the job : the enemy stands
unbroken before his grave. What then
—are the homeland and democracy not
worth while any longer? If they are not
worth while, what have we to say to
the mourning relatives of William James
for inciting him to go? The voluntarists
talk of blood being upon the hands of those
who demand universal service. The blood
of Billjim is equally upon the hands of
everybody who has called for volunteers.
But there is this difference. The volun-
tarists will let Billjim, whom they have
sent to the Front, take cruel risks. Those
who seek universal service—to the extent of
sending him adequate reinforcements —ask
only that he be given a fair chance.
A year ago there were people in Australia
who combated the introduction of compul-
sory service upon the ground that there were
“millions of Russians available.” Now they
are changing the description to “millions
of Americans.” Next year it will probably
be Japanese. But Americans and Japanese
won’t fill the empty spaces in our own lines.
This is not only a question of winning the
war: it is a question also of doing justice to
our own men. There were others who
talked with ignorant certainty about the
war being “in its last stage.” Their tune
now seems to be that it does not matter
what Australia does, anyhow. The answer
to that is the same: our obligation to those
who have gone. A further argument a year
ago was that no one should by his vote send
another citizen to his death. This can be
relied upon to get additional emphasis, but
without reference to the reverse contention
that no one should by his vote encourage or
enable another citizen to evade a service
which stands between the nation and
destruction. If German militarism emerges
unbeaten from this war the free Australia
we know to-day will cease to exist. This
war is Australia’s war as definitely as if
the enemy stood to arms on Australian soil.
There are thousands of men in the country
able to reinforce the nation’s army at the
only place where it can be effective. To say
that these men shall not go because they hold
certain opinions about their citizenship and
the progress of the struggle is equivalent to
a denial of the State’s authority even when
attacked by a hostile force, and would leave
Australia in the calamitous position of
miserably depending for liberty and even for
life upon the sacrifices made by foreign
people.
That the business has been fooled and
fumbled everybody knows. That the public
has been disgracefully misled in relation to
events at the Front and in Europe needs no
proof at this stage of the tragedy. But these
considerations are of little moment to-day.
Later on we shall deal with the Censorship
and determine if we can what part, if any,
Germany has played in it. But for the pre-
sent the supreme issue is whether our army
shall go on with the fight to resist Kaiser-
dom taking charge of the earth—whether
Australia shall stand up to the strain with
the same courage and endurance as Germany,
or shall it be announced to Billjim that
when he has done those w 7 ho cheered him off
will be done, too?
[To express the opinions of The Bueletix, by
S. H. Prior, D. M. Wright and F. J. Kirby, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
TOWSER.
When Germany loosed the amazing beast
with steel claws and fiery breath that had
been trained behind her frontier it was in
the belief that the British bulldog of song
and vaunt had turned cur or was weary
with old age. The ominous growl which
came from the kennel across the North Sea
did not strike terror into the Teuton heart;
but after he had suffered painful prelimi-
nary maulings at Mons; Ypres and else-
where, the bulldog took hold of his l arger
-opponent and thereafter did not open his
teeth. Later on he began to shake his
jaws with violence suited to the occasion-
and he is still hanging on and shaking
exactly as he did in those previous European
struggles which made his reputation. T n .
prepared, slow to anger, fat and out of
condition, the British Towser acted in the
way he might have been expected to act
Early in the war heroic France stood to her
great task as the bulwark and saviour of
civilisation. Later it was Russia that held
the honors, twisting up the Austrian armies
in tine style and pushing the front wheels
of the big road-roller towards the passes of
the Carpathians. Later still it was Italy
that seemed, in spite of tremendous natural
obstacles, to have the best war record. All
this while Britain was blundering in the old
fashion. She threw her cash and credit in
large slabs into the controversy; but the
Dardanelles expedition was a failure, the
Turks for a moment threatened the Egyptian
border, disaster attended the start of the
invasion of Mesopotamia, the Salonika per-
formance amounted to little, and the bF
naval clash off Jutland was not the decisive
triumph which had been hoped for. But,
through all the follies and the failures, the
bulldog in the national make-up held on.
Now, after more than three years of war!
it is Britain that is very slowly but very
surely crushing the life out of the German
war monster. French, Russians and Italians
have all done more brilliant things, and
America may give the finishing stroke; but
when the war is won the victory will have
been mainly due to the grim holding-on power
of the British nation. Other nations have
shown a bigger bite and a more extended
mouthful of teeth or have proved capable of
the lightning snap at some outstanding por-
tion of the foe. All nations have from time
to time shown great courage and an unwill-
ingness to accept defeat even in the face
of bitterest punishment and loss. But that
slow British quality, which in action may
even go far towards breaking the hearts
of more fiery Allies, counts for victory at
the last. No one impartially viewing the
present conflict across Europe can doubt
that the struggle is now between Britain
and Germany and that the chances favor
the bulldog against the monstrosity bred
east of the Rhine.
This hanging-on power is not some-
thing exhibited only in great wars. The
innate conservatism of the people, which
has again and again saved the nation from
revolution, has its roots deep down in the
same soil. Other nations marvel that the
first country to rise up in wrath and smite
the principle of hereditary kingship should
still yield reverence to a gold hat and a
host of other emblems of authority, the sig-
nificance of which was worn out about the
time John signed Magna Charta. The
miracle that one of the nations which earli-
est whooped for the destruction of old church
forms and ideas, yet preserves the nearest
imitation of those forms and ideas it could
devise, still keeps top place in the ecclesi-
astical freak museum. Never has there been
a people so anxious to cling to tradition
and at the same time so keen for reform. Years
ago Cobdenism after a bitter fight secured
recognition. A form of Cobdenism, which in
justice to its originators was not quite the
genuine article, was established by law.
Under that law England’s cornfields became
pastures, its pastures ornamental parks, its
factories worked under a heavy handicap,
the people’s job was given to a cheaper
foreigner, the nation took the risks of starva-
tion in war-time and of all the miseries of
cheap trade in time of peace; but nothing
could shift the faith of Britain in the thing
it had once adopted until the booming of
the German guns and the close menace of
the submarine revealed the vast possibilities
for self-destruction which lay under the
fiercely defended political creed. The same
was true of the anti-militarist propaganda
which maintained that to keep more men
under arms than were necessary to secure
an immediate licking was provocative to
other peacefully-intentioned nations. Every-
where Britain clung to established ideas just
as she is now clinging to the throat of the
foe. Wisely directed —and the direction ot
such a spirit is not the impossibility it might
at first seem —the bulldog force of such a
people is of tremendous value. Staying
power and sticking power are sure winners
when they are attached to something h Ke
moderate intelligence. They make for the
security of mankind ; and if the bulldog isn
the most graceful thing in the canine word,
he is a lot more useful during the tw -
o’clock-in-the-morning burglary than t
finest greyhound ever bred.
* * *
Australians, in the mood induced by
partnership in the great war, and oc !r asl i
ally before that, when a fat person napp
a flag, have claimed that they belong
the bulldog breed. Racially this has,
course, an element of truth; but to v
extent as a nation we can justify tne ca
still remains to be shown. Certainly at
Dardanelles and in the bitter fighting
France and Belgium our Australian so
have matched their own dash and lirllu< ‘
in attack with their stubborn and long <
tinued endurance in the trenches.
Britain’s lmnging-on power is not m -
a thing of the battlefield. Soldiers
Yorkshire and Devon cling to their jo
through disaster and defeat, exactly as
own men from Queensland and Tasmania
to theirs. But in the bigger matters 1
nation and not the army which mus
the resolute, unbroken will-to-endure. - *
as the win-the-war cry has been rais
has been no strength or certainty a
True, the hysterical impotence °f , .q n 'tioii
absurdity of the Censorship, tne i
of the clumsy and unskilled mihtaiy <
racy which has been set up have m
the real spirit of Australia thuoi ‘ sa y
to assert itself. Nobody can thei . we
whether Australia is a sticker. ‘ nES
can bite has been proved, that
can bark is beyond all question; hu j nto
still to show that when we get oui
a thing we mean to really stay tne ' t,y
[To express the opinions of The T Br ':! Rßy /jl4
S. H. Prior, D. M. Wright and F. J-
George-street, Sydney.]


RED FLAME AND THE BREEZE AT
BONDI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My companion turned to me on the steps of
the Sportsman Cafe in Calle Florida, which
is in Buenos Aires, far away.
“Do you know that this place was opened
by a Sydney man who won a Tatt.’s sweep?”
My mind leapt instantly back to my Syd-
ney home, albeit my body stood on the steps
of this restaurant in this most unmoral city
in the world. There in Sydney, far away,
the same blue sky leaned over the mud-
colored houses dotted about the shores of the
harbor; leaned over our youth, our everlast-
ing faith in ourselves; leaned here over
white, wilful Spanish houses and an ever-
lasting faith in nothing.
Billjim transplants well, although I say
it myself. In his homeland he is up against
it from birth —drought and bushfire and
flood. All endurance he learns very early.
Struggle is his natural environment. In
foreign lands I find him serene and rather
silent; always of a precise and assured dig-
nity in which unquestionably he is not
clothed at home. There is a polish, too, that
I do not see at home. Here in Buenos Aires
the world goes selfishly and sensually on its
way, and no man need work who would not.
All the color, the bloom on the fruit, the
town seizes at once, deriving what she may
from the smell and feel of the ephemeral
things.
In Sydney, looking back over the years,
there is, I suppose, a faith in God—-not
much, but some. Here there is a faith in
nothing at all: the Spanish householder does
not even allow the uncliaperoned priest in
his house. The Spanish women drag them-
selves to Mass on Sundays and holy days
quite spiritlessly, by habit and upbringing
only ; and the Spanish man goes his ordained
Latin way, uncriticised and inevitably.
Up and down the world’s ways I have seen
some men and things: the slack Englishman,
snobbish and cold, holding very responsible
positions, and holding them very well; the
buoyant, windy American, getting the
uttermost effort out of his subordinates and
loafing himself ; the fiery Frenchman and
Italian, doing vividly a week’s work in a
day, and anon a day’s work in a month ; the
distant, arrogant Spaniard, doing nothing at
all with smiling urbanity. The Australian I
see always doing his share, and often more
than that, with a quietude that is rather
remarkable in the younger nations. He ab-
sorbs from his childhood a tacit acquiescence
in this need of hard work —of hard, silent
work. Hence, no doubt, in lands where all
men do not work, he stands forward a little
in dignified value, and its unconsciousness is
its best quality.
The essential life of Buenos Aires is
Spanish ; to wit, the survival of the oldest
“civilisation.” The eager, acquisitive Briton
and American have wrested the vast possi-
bilities of the land out of the loose, inherit-
ing Spanish hands. The economic activity
of the place is entirely foreign; its energy
is immigrant. In I’evenge, the descendants
of the Spanish pirates and settlers (who are
the “natives”) have imposed upon the city a
childish laxity of life, incredible in its sim-
ple, direct gluttony. There are cinema
shows which would frighten a Port Said
loafer ; the vaudeville haunts would shock a
Parisian “guide”; the color and beauty of
the place would drive a century of dreams
into an artist’s memory every day.
As we walked Calle Florida on our way
to the Club, the night came down upon the
town, sighing and soft and sweet. Buenos
Aires wakes to life in her fleeting dusk;
opens amorous eyes and paints her face and
sallies forth. A breeze loiters up Rio de la
Plata from the sea at each sundown, carry-
ing unlawful mirth and a bright contempt
for all the laws imposed. And Buenos
Aires laughs in answer and turns and wakes,
gluttonous. The humming night threw a
velvet mist in our faces. But through it I
saw surfing Sundays at Manly and Coogee ;
a camp long ago on the Cox River; a
summer of appalling hard work and hard
luck, getting (or, rather, not getting) cedar
up Gloucester way. I saw the youth of the
world and the gum-trees; heard fhe long,
sweet cry of the Bush.
There is no Sunday surfing in Argentina,
or any surfing. There is Mar del Plata,
which is half a dozen hotels of great splen-
dor and notoriety, a promenade of concrete
and a gambling club; and that is all. A
train de luxe runs there every week-end;
not infrequently intending passengers change
their minds when they see the other passen-
gers at Plaza Constitucion —Mar del Plata
becomes a little uncomfortably crowded
sometimes, even though there be few. there.
Generally speaking, one rises at midday on
the Sabbath (which follows Saturday night),
eats an eight-course lunch with vino del
paiz, ad lib., and goes to the races —or worse.
I don’t quite see why not. On the Day of
Judgment I take it that a week-end or so
a deux at Mar del Plata will press, more
lightly in the balance than the starving of
the widow and the orphan in the of
the acquisitive hand. Perhaps not. You
may be right, after all. In any case, you
are very solemn.
But I know that cold, Puritan New Eng-
landers drift down to Buenos Aires; youths
from Nonconformist homes; austere, enthu-
siastic engineers and scientists from all cold
corners of the earth —and in a few weeks or
months the perfumed arms of Buenos Aires
are round their fatuous necks. Some work
is done, of course. That must be. But most
of it is done by the earth : leaf-mould from
disintegrated primeval forests, I am told,
which exacts from each seed its full labor,
driving alfalfa through three feet of bone-
dry sand in a week. The estanciero grows
tired of the sea of alfalfa stretching from
his feet to the horizon, and sends home, for
saplings to make him a green shade. A little
grove of bushes soon surrounds the parent
tree; and the north wind comes and blows
it all out of the ground. The soil could not
wait: it asked for no depth of root —only a
savage speed.
In the engineers’ garden at Plaza Consti-
tucion there is a 40ft. tree, which clothes
itself in a scarlet, flaglike flower twice a
year. No foliage, no green at all: just
scarlet bloom, massed and burning. Two-
inch scentless violets stand upright like
pansies.. Tasteless peaches hang wild on the
River Tigre banks. Juiceless oranges droop
over the walls of the dark suburban gardens,
all unnotioed and unplucked. Speed—speed !
Gargantuan, Rabelaisian, Pantagruelist,
the beautiful place has ruined more good
men than the Cities of the Plain. Per-
haps that red tree of the engineers’ is a Pillar
of Fire—but wasn’t it salt?
I expect I shall go back. I ought not to,
in these sober middle years ; but I expect I
shall. The call is as strong as Sydney’s, if
not so sweet.
I expect I shall go back. Still—that icy
breeze at Bondi in the dawn !
HILARY LOFTING.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Business that is Quite Serious.
There is rejoicing at Berlin. Turn the
thing round and give to one of the Allies a
success which drove the enemy reeling back-
wards from a position so naturally strong
and strategically important as the Italian
held before Goritza. Add to it fearfully
heavy losses of men and material; then
conceive the enemy coming to bay on
a line far from favorable, while the vic-
torious armies in front went rapidly for-
ward to hit him again, and a huge civilian
population stampeded from the hell that had
broken over them—and if there was not the
material from which London and New York
could extract justification for rejoicings,
Heaven only knows what would be adequate
provocation. Berlin has reason to be glad.
Let us make no mistake about that. The Ger-
man advance into Italy, coming in the wake of
the Russian collapse, changes many aspects
of the war, materially strengthens the mili-
tary and political power of the Central
Alliance, and threatens our hold on Egypt
and the Suez Canal. You will notice all
that in the peace talk during the current
winter. Should the German hamstring the
Italian there will be nothing between Ger-
many and a complete mastery of Europe but
the armies and fleets of Britain, France and
the United States. Meantime there has been
a renewal of unpleasantness with the Turk,
during which, it is true, an Australian force
has laid violent hands on Beersheba. The
place was of rather more importance than
Boggabri at one time, but at the moment
transactions in that locality are of about as
much relative inconsequence as a game of
marbles; and anyone who is trying to per-
suade himself that it is all right because
some of the papers give almost as heavy
headlines to the success as to the disaster
had better not do it any more. We are
already pretty deep in the ditch through our
bad habit of blindfolding ourselves.
♦
Cocky, Co-operation and a Business that
Needs Watching.
The entrance of co-operative grain cos. into
the wheat business has caused undisguised
perturbation amongst the old private firms
which have run the show for so long and so
profitably. As the N. S. Wales co. has been
given an equal footing-—that is, has been
recognised as a Government agent on put-
ting up a £lO,OOO bond, with the right tb
delve in and do as much business as it can
secure —the move on the part of the old firms
at the time of writing is to get the Govern-
ment to allot business. That is, in place
of the unrestricted competition which has so
far been the rule, even under the pool, it is
proposed that each firm should be allotted
a given quantity of wheat to handle and
that running expenses should be reduced.
This extraordinary proposition should have
very short shrift. The fact that it was
never suggested until the co-operative con-
cern poked its head above the horizon speaks
volumes. If carried into effect it would
simply mean that growers, beyond a certain
small proportion, would be blocked from
dealing with their own company and would
be compelled to do business with their own
competitors, despite a deep-founded, if un-
reasonable, belief that these people have
been robbing them for years past. In that
connection it is interesting to note that in
Westralia the cockies’ company has secured
the right to handle the whole of the crop.
When it was too late Private Enterprise
woke up and put in an offer to do the job
for a farthing per bushel less, which is sig-
nificant as to the profit in past years. As
there are co-operative concerns in the wheat
business in Victoria and S. Australia,
there is the prospect of Australia promoting
the biggest co-operative movement the wheat
world has witnessed. If the thing is well
managed it will be a great achievement; but
the cockies must learn from the jump that
big business means big brains, and big brains
mean big screws. It is incapacity to recog-
nise this that has brought so many co-opera-
tive enterprises to grief.
Half-baked Price Fixing.
From a man who grew old in the business:
The ignorant and the ranters are holding up
their hands in horror at what are termed the “revela-
tions” of grocers’ villainy as elicited by inquiries
into food prices. But the whole thing only serves
to illustrate the futility of half-baked price-fixing.
Price-fixing to be logical should extend from the
“primordial protoplasmic particle” right up to the
completed wooden ham. At present it is a poor
shandygaff affair that defeats its own ends, inflating
prices by keeping the market bare and the traders
“jumpy.”
The first effect of a price fixed below market parity
ia to make holders refuse to sell. And there is no
law to make them do it. The fixers never thought
of that natural corollary to fixing. The withdrawal
from sale (or, at any rate, from the market-lists)
sets the men to whom the withdrawn commodity is
essential in business or manufacture snooping round
looking for it. They must have it, and are prepared
to pay high in order to tempt the holders to dis-
gorge. Here the necessary parasite comes in—the
broker, the merchants’ official snooper. He has
to be paid for snooping—and the public does the
paying.
Take one of the dreadful examples of a recent
soda, the explosive that helps self-
raising flour to raise and gingerbeer to ginge. It
used to cost about Bs. cwt., and was retailed at lid.
lb. Its London list-value (it is much too compli-
cated a product to be made here, of course; our
limit is wool, V.C.’s, harvesters and lieut.-colonels
of 26) is now about 225. cwt. (2£d. lb.) ; its whole-
sale price here is 425. (41d. lb.), with few sellers.
It is, in fact, almost unbuyable. Its theoretic fixed
price is 3d. lb. It is a very necessary commodity,
for were it not for soda-scones and similarly chemi-
cally-raised foodstuffs the diet-curists and patent-
medicine vendors would never make a living at all.
Bakers, housewives and fizz-bottlers must have carb.
soda, fix we the prices ever so fixedly. But is there
any human (much less an associated-merchant) likely
to sell for 225. what he can’t replace for less than
425., if at all? And if someone pining for carb.
soda comes along and insults him with an offer
of 455. for his stuff, is even a lay-canon going to
insist on the piner taking it for 225.? Not the
merchant I know, let the law be ever so adamant.
Before price-fixing can work it will be necessary
(still to use the carb. soda simile) for the Sfate to
declare carb. soda a national monopoly as well as
a necessary commodity, to run its own freightage to
carry it from ’Ome, do its own distributing, finance
its distributors, and, above all, maintain ft never-
fluctuating supply —the secret spring of action be-
hind all merchanting. Incidentally, it will have to
guarantee that there shall be no wars, strikes,
equinoctial gales, heat-waves, storekeepers’ bank-
ruptcies, mosquito plagues, or dyspepsia epidemics,
all of which contribute to the dislocation of the
soda market. Rath r a large order! It would pro-
bably pay the public better to give a ha’penny extra
and chance the profiteer getting rich on it.
■ o
Iceland,
Up at the edge of the Arctic circle there
exists a community of 85,000 people for
whom it is claimed that they are better
educated and of higher general culture than
any other race on earth. Watching the mur-
derous struggle in Europe from a safe dis-
tance —for neither they nor their Danish rela-
tives are likely to be drawn into it—the Ice-
landers have put forward a claim for national
independence. Just what the meaning of
that claim may be it would be difficult to
say. There might be some minor irritation
against the Danish Government or some
trouble with officialdom which could account
for the movement; but when the position of
the Icelanders themselves, drilled to infinite
patience by their rigorous climate, is fairly
considered, it is pretty certain that the cause
lies deeper and that the demand for freedom
has a more philosophic foundation. May it
be that these well-read, intelligent people,
who already have Home Rule and the inter-
nal conduct of their own affairs, have decided
that their only safety lies in independence?
Even an attachment to a mild little State
like Denmark might under certain conceiv-
able circumstances be a very grave danger;
and the tiny community is restless while
that link remains. Everything with regard
to the situation must, in the absence of
definite knowledge, be merely speculative;
but this seems to be by far the most likely
explanation of the cabled aspirations of Ice-
land to hoist a flag of its own. Very prob-
ably a large portion of the world is think-
ing the same way. Great empires once
appeared to stand for safety; but the war
has blown that notion into small dust. It
may he that world-peace has a surer founda-
tion if built upon the independence of small
communities. On the evidences, only small
communities have so far succeeded in gov-
erning themselves well; and it is in the large,
loose assortments of races called empires
that the war-mongers get their best chance.
What men desire most is peace and security
to milk their cows or attend to their icebergs ;
and if bie things mean big guns, the day of
small things is coming back.
In a spirit of the most indulgent toleration
The Bulletin puts it to R.C. Archbishop
Man nix of Melbourne that he should very
earnestly reconsider the validity of his fre-
quent claim to be a “good Australian.” He
may be a good Irishman. This paper ex-
presses no opinion upon that point except to
say that there are many good Irish-
men in Ireland who would grieve to see him
waving a Sinn Fein flag on John Wren’s
racecourse at Richmond and proclaiming the
appropriateness of the moment for abandon-
ing the claim to Home Rule and asserting
the right to complete severance. Neverthe-
less Mannix may be an Irishman of excep-
tional prevision, and the hatreds he
nourishes may lead the Irish people
to the salvation they hope for. But
transferred from Ireland to Australia they
can be nothing more than a danger to the
national life. The Englishman or Scot who
comes to the Commonwealth to help keep
alive hereabouts the racial dislikes main-
tained by generations of strife-mongers in
Ireland and out of it may be a patriot in his
own estimation, but he cannot be a decent
Australian. And the case cuts both ways.
A man is not a good Australian because he
is an Irishman and hates Britain, nor is he
one because he subscribes to resolutions ex-
pressing devotion to the Empire and George
V. What makes him one is that he thinks
in terms of Australia ; that he comprehends
the national perils and sees the glowing
future before this land of ours if the people
stand firmly to their trust; that he looks
out on the world from Australia, not from
Belfast or London or Glasgow ; and that he
does nothing to imperil the destiny of the
Commonwealth, even though by doing so he
could perform a service to another country.
There are any number of Irishmen who know
all this. Mannix is not one of them. If
he is, then his tongue serves him badly.
Whether it will seem appropriate to the
lately-arrived Papal delegate Cattaneo that
a prelate of the Church in the Common-
wealth should spend most of his time fulmin-
ating about the advantages to be gained by
promoting revolution in Ireland and urging
Australia to be a quitter in a struggle for
her very existence as a free country, is one
of the details with which this paper has
nothing whatever to do. It is merely in-
terested in imploring Mannix to knock off
confusing his geography, and if he must keep
on talking to do it as an Irishman consumed
by ideas about Ireland, not as an Aus-
tralian.
“McNorth” : It’s about time a move was
made towards bettering the condition of the
trained nurses volunteering for, and serving
with, the A.I.F. These women, who have
been through a long and arduous course of
training, are given the rank of sub-lieutenant
on being called up ; but while the male one-
star receives 21s. a day, the nurse-officer
has to be content with about £6O a year. An
initial outfit for a nurse costs £4O, to which
the authorities subscribe a miserable £lO.
So that no matter what her qualifications,
the girl who can’t rake up £3O has no chance.
As to the nurses who come from the far-
away places, there is the recent case of the
ex-matron of a Papuan hospital. Having
volunteered two years ago, she was recently
instructed to secure a medical certificate and
report for duty at Brisbane. This she did,
but on arrival at the Bananaland capital
was rejected as unfit because of malaria.
The disease had been contracted since the
issue of the certificate. This nurse had re-
signed a good position and had paid all her
own expenses from Papua; but officialdom
listened with indifference to her protests.
Throughout Australia there is a shortage of
nurses, and any trained woman can easily
obtain more remunerative employment than
that offered by the A.1.F., and under better
conditions as to living, etc. Yet hundreds
of nurses have willingly sacrificed good posi-
tions for the privilege of tending wounded
Billjim, and they strive to accept the
wretched conditions cheerfully. Love for
their country and their fighting brothers calls
these brave women ; but there is no reason
why the Defence Department should take a
mean advantage of their patriotism.
“CorABELLA”: Dr. Arthur wants to en-
courage the birth-rate to the tune of a five-
bob-a-week subsidy for No. 3; and now
Davine, of the A.N.A., says the raising of
the doctors’ capitation grant will discourage
the too-infrequent lPtle stranger by making
mother’s medicine too expensive. All this
race-suicide hifalutin makes me very tired.
With the exception of the experimental,
light-hearted No. 1, or the sonless or
daughterless striving for “one of the other
kind,” I never yet met a woman who
wanted to have a baby; or who could be
“encouraged” by five bob, or five quid. (I
content myself with analysing the woman,
because, admittedly, the business is he.rs.)
Married mothers are of six kinds: (1) The
philosophers who chance it; (2) the mar-
tyrs, forced into almost perpetual mother-
hood by bowelless mates; (3) the odd an-
achronism with a vague idea that “the Bible
says we must”; (4) the plain animals; (5)
the “fallers-in” whose preventives fail them;
(6) the miscalculators. The two last-
named predominate. I’m a parent by mis-
calculation. I’m not regretting the errors
—quite the contrary; in fact, we sometimes
own to a regret that the calculations didn’t
misfire another time or two. For the pur-
poses of this article I got a lady friend to
make a few judicious inquiries among her
acquaintances, and was rather staggered to
find that five out of seven of them —all
decent “middle-class” people and regular
churchgoers—used preventives, most of the
dopes very erratic in their efficacy. The
other two were calculators, very successful
ones. Child-bearing is at its best a pro-
gressively uncomfortable, even trying (to
both parties) business, and finally an agon-
ising, even dangerous, phenomenon; child-
rearing to any but the opportunist means at
its best at least 20 years (perhaps 40) of
responsibility, sacrifice and anxiety, with
oft-times disillusionment at the end. To talk
of “encouraging” either or both by subsidy,
tax-rebate, bonus, coffin-pram, medal,
diploma or cheap doctoring is plain foolish-
ness when it isn’t plain hot-air. Any of
these measures may relieve in some measure
the anxieties of the philosophers, add to the
Fear!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stood beside me when I was born,
His shadow darkened my boyhood days,
He made me the butt of scalding scorn,
And chained my feet to the guarded ways.
I shunned the darkness and craved the light
Because of him and his icy breath ;
And times there were at the dead of night
When he gripped my heart with the grip
cf death.
On all my questing his shadow fell,
And brightest dreams at his touch grew
dim ;
No captive, chained in a dungeon cell
Was half the slave that I was to him!
Where others ventured with laugh and shout
I dared not follow, whate’er the game;
The peril always he pointed out—
The hurt, the failure, the scoff, the shame.
Where others answered hot blow with blow
I, cursing the chill at my heart, ate dirt,
And shirked the struggle, and fled the foe,
And paled at the thought of pain and hurt.
I grew to manhood, to girth of chest
And height and weight, and strength of
limb,
And yet, in the things that try and test
True strength, I failed because of him.
I saw the victors with glory lit
In pomp and pride of prowess pass;
A caitiff soul in a body fit
To greatly do was mine, alas!
I cursed and cursed again the power
That filled my soul with sick despair,
That made me bend the knee and cower
When Manhood bade me do and dare.
And then the Great Adventure called.
Still loth to go I did not fly ;
Stiff-lipped to dare and yet appalled,
I went but felt his shadow nigh.
* * * *
Thanks! thanks to God ! Last night it
came—■
The test, the charge, the splendid hour
Wherein in mud and blood and flame,
I freed my soul and broke his power.
For lo ! with death and wounds around,
And great guns thundering far and near,
Revealed by fire my soul I found,
And, heart exultant, conquered Fear!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“The Powerful Aid o/ Co-operation/*
In outtming his scheme for the development of Australian industry Prime Minister Hughes stressed the necessity for co-operative effort in every industry.
“We must aim at returning to the producer the full value of his product,” he added. ‘
That was the principle on which an enthusiastic group of farmers two years ago founded
T h J Farmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A us Js!i a
An insurance company owned by co-operating farmers who secure the entire profits from their insurance business-thus obtaining their insur-
ances at cost price. ®
Insure Your Crops and Property with Your Own Company.
Co-operate and Become a Shareholder.
Absolute Protection at Current Insurance Rates.
It is to the farmer’s advantage in every respect to support his own company. Write the Manager for Full Particulars.
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PEACE# SYDNEY.
self-commendation of the “Bible-says”
cranks, soothe the chagrin of the miscalcu-
lators and put a premium on the cretinous
offspring of the degenerate, but they will not
lift the burden from the martyrs—the poor
worn souls who in some cases have not
known in 30 years what it was not to have
a baby either suckling or making its slow
journey life-wards. A “discouragement”
subsidy would help them more. To help
the decent, healthy, not-too-affluent couple
to bear its load of resigned miscalculation or
cheery optimism would be a worthy use for
public money; but —cut out this piffle about
“encouragement” !
Are We Going to Turn Dog on Billjim?
“We must face the facts,” says Hughes.
Good ! And the first to face is that for three
wretched years the Australian public has
lived in a land of dreams. All that time this
paper has been trying to get the community
to look at what Hughes now says must be
faced ; and every effort it made to do so had
to receive the approval of a Censorship whose
guiding principle seemed to be that the only
facts the community should be allowed to
know were those which obscured a wider
truth. Some, at any rate, of the cobwebs
and delusions can be brushed away now.
There are two central facts for Australia to
grapple with. The first is that the nation is
at war with the most powerful military com-
bination ever known. The second is that the
war is not being won, and under no con-
ceivable circumstances can it be won unless
the nations opposed to Germany exert their
powers of resistance and offence to the ex-
treme limit of their endurance. Let no mis-
take be made about that, nor about what the
consequences to Australia must be if the
peace to come is determined at Berlin. There
is no guesswork about this, Germany is
struggling for the assertion of a world-
ascendancy. There is no yearning at Pots-
dam for hunks of equatorial Africa and
myriads of niggers and lands afflicted with
weird diseases and pests. Germany wants
an oversea empire, and if she wins through
to the English Channel or to the Gulf of
Bagdad she will have it within her grasp.
That is the possibility that Australians have
to face. And the reality is that Germany
stands unbroken to-day with half of her
enemies in the dust. Only Britain and the
United States stand between the Kaiser and
his absolute mastery of Europe. The question
for Australians now is whether our part of
the army of defence shall be maintained at
present fighting strength or whether the
Commonwealth shall loaf upon the sacrifice
and patriotism of other people. It is no
good lamenting the failures and follies of
Parliaments and Ministries. It is easy to
see that the Federal Government might have
acted differently. But with the enemy creep-
ing closer and closer to our gates, with one
after another of the obstacles standing
between him and ourselves crumbling away,
it is the clear duty of every citizen to con-
centrate on that alarming circumstance and
make the best of the material at hand for the
direction of public policy. Hughes matters
nothing in this business. Political parties
and their outfit of planks and platforms and
sordid schemes of personal and party
aggrandisement matter nothing. Talk about
this reform and that is merely banal. The
entire national life is at stake —the ability of
the army to defend Australia from an enemy
anxious to throttle every hope the people of
the country ever had. The Bulletin wants
to see the issue on which the people are to
vote discussed with the most ample freedom,
and, above all else, wants to see it voted
upon from the point of view of a community
which realises that it is voting for its coun-
try’s life or death. That the Federal Minis-
try should at last have decided that it must
stand or fall by the only policy which can
give it authority or power to defend the
nation may be a belated confession of past
ineptitude. But that does not matter either.
The fact is that it has so decided, and that
if Australians want to do their best to win
their war they have the opportunity. Also
if they do not wish this —if they want to
sneak out of their obligations to themselves
and their country; if they want to turn dog-
on the men who died for them and who are
fighting for them to-day in that German-
made hell in Flanders and on the plains of
Palestine, they have the opportunity, too. But
to The Bulletin it is inconceivable that Aus-
tralian-born men or women should flinch from
their civic duty or value the freedom they
possess so lightly as to voluntarily surrender
it or count it less than some passing politi-
cal shibboleth.
[To express the opinions of Thf. Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. .T. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-strect, Sydney.!
Three S. Aus. politicians have just
announced their coming retirement. Edward
Lucas moves on to London as Agent-General;
Howe and Kirkpatrick drop out of politics
altogether. Howe —everybody called him
“Jimmy” in saying the public goodbyes —has
been in one or other State House since 1881.
Ilis best work was in the old days as Lands
Minister several times under Downer and
Cockburn, and as a member of the powerful
batch of 10 which S. Aus. sent to the Con-
vention that settled the details of Federa-
tion. Kirkpatrick has been in harness since
1891, being one of the earliest Labor mem-
bers. He started in the Leg. Council, moved
on to the Assembly, and has at various times
been Chief Sec. (under Price) and Agent-
General, and he ends up as leader of the
handful of Labor Oppositionists now in
Parliament. His retirement is rather sudden.
Elderly and genial, he feels hardly the man
to lead bitter fights against his old associates
and friends.
The pledge signed by members of the Hol-
man-Fuller party during last N. S. Wales
elections had up to the end of last week been
examined under 75 microscopes to dis-
cover if there happened to be a fire-escape,
and the only resemblance to one then dis-
covered looked a lot like a mere rum'or. The
pledge was this :
We declare that the issue of Conscription, having
been referred to the people and decided by them in
the negative, is settled. We accept unreservedly the
verdict of the people and will give no support to
any endeavor to again raise the question.
It was an ass of an undertaking, as this
paper protested at the time. But that pro-
test does not change its nature. Either the
Holman-Fuller people will stand to their
pledge and remain silent during the Conscrip-
tion campaign, thus depriving themselves of
their rights as citizens and evading their
duty to Australia and Billjim, or they will
knock the gag out of their mouths by going
to the country. N. S. Wales was the nark
State at the poll of October 28 last year.
If the vote is to be taken again on an issue
complicated by howls about a broken pledge,
the chances of a reversal will without doubt
be heavily handicapped.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Peior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
The main points of the Don’t-turn-dog-on-
Billjim scheme expounded at Bendigo: —
Ballot for recruits when voluntary enlistment does
not supply 7000 men a month.
Single men from 20 to 44 liable, with exemptions
for clergy, conscientious objectors, persons whose
service would cause undue hardship on dependants,
workers in essential industries, members of a family
already represented in the army, eligible males of
families not represented to be called on first.
All this general framework has yet to be
filled out with more detail. It is incidentally
mentioned that ballots will be taken in each
State on the basis of proportional numbers.
But it is important that there should be a
close division of each State into areas for
purposes of the ballot and the computation
of quotas.
D. J. Gordon takes the place as Liberal
leader in the S.A. Leg. Council left open by
the appointment of. Lucas to London as
Agent-General. Gordon knows more than
most men about Parliament, having watched
it from the press gallery for many years.
He was chief of staff of Adelaide Register
before going into the Federal House of Reps.
The plan for giving the river Torrens a
new mouth through the sandhills at Henley,
near Adelaide, is hung up for a while. A
Parliamentary Committee appointed to take
evidence found a big difference of ooinion
as to what was likely to happen next. Local
residents of long standing are sure that the
salt water would get in through the cutting
and spoil the luscious, low-lying country
behind the sandhills. The Committee recom-
mended a pigeon-hole instead of an immedi-
ate cutting, and there the matter will rest.
Richard Butler —Dismal Dick. Treas-
urer in many S.A. Ministries and of the
present Peake Government —has had the
unusual experience of finding the detectives
on his track. He lately told the Assembly,
in great fury, that the Defence Department
had been making inquiries about a speech
of his supposed to be, if not disloyal, at any
rate bad for recruiting. Anyone who knows
Butler recognises this to be almost comic,
and Pearce has admitted that the inquiries
showed everything to be all right. What,
he went on was the report in an Adelaide
paper of one of Butler’s speeches in the
country, and that seemed to ask for inquiry.
As The Bulletin has said a dozen times,
this is one of the curses of the voluntary
system: almost anything may from some
point of view be prejudicial to recruiting.
The Bulletin has had some queer experi-
ences in that connection. The Treasurer of
the day desired help in connection with a
War-time Profits measure. He got the car-
toon he wanted —and promptly the Defence
Department fired in a censure for printing
something prejudicial to recruiting! The
Treasury, to finance the war, wanted the
existence of war profits stressed: the
Defence Department at the time wanted
news of their existence suppressed, appar-
ently lest it should make everybody want to
stay out of khaki and get rich.
[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed bv anybody else, S. H. Prior, John
Barr and E. O’Fkrrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Rainbow”
Her Majesty’s Mr - Manhattan
Palace The Waybacks
The Playhouse “Quinneys ”
St. James’s Hall “The Real Miss Pinkerton
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Tivoli McIntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “You’re in Love”
Royal “Mary Goes First
Iung’s “Much Ado About Nothing’,
Princess’s “The Woman Thou Gavest Me
Tivoli McIntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Dh Luxe k Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
MEl,ha Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
It is an old theatrical axiom that no
capable actor of suitable appearance can be
a failure in the character of Hamlet. Ian
Maclaren, being tall, slim and sufficiently
young-looking, doesn’t fail in his perform-
ance of the wordy Dane at Melbourne
King’s. Nevertheless, he gets more credit for
an artistic production of the play than for
his big share in the acting of it. His staging
is absolutely new and original in the first
act, where he has adopted an idea of J. B.
"Hamlet " at Mel-
bourne King's.
lan Maclaren, as
Hamlet, chewing
things over.
Atholwood’s for
confining all the
action to the Bat-
tlements of the
Castle, and in
sundry other places
the stage manage-
ment gives new
and up-to-date color
to old familiar pas-
sages. The idea of
having Ophelia
actually in the room
while Hamlet con-
siders the question
of Being or not
Being (she’s down
on her knees pray-
ing for the young
man when she
notes his insane
disposition to talk
to himself) is a
notable improve-
ment on produc-
tions even as re-
cent as H. B.
Irving’s. On the
other hand, Mac’s
management of the
Ghost effects and
his death-scene are
not as picturesque
as Allan Wilkie’s.
One remembers the
figure of the dead Allan Hamlet seated
on the throne of his late unlamented
uncle whilst Horatio puts the crown upon
his head and makes a suitable remark or
two. Ian Hamlet dies rather awkwardly,
and the tall, insipid Horatio remains dumb
as he drops a counterpane—or perhaps it’s
a cloak —upon the recumbent form.
Admitting that every intelligent Hamlet
is satisfactory as far as he goes, one must
protest that Maclaren doesn’t go far towards
persuading his audience that he is haunted
by recollections of his father’s ghost. He
doesn’t get a sense of supernaturalism across
the footlights, so to say. He seems naturally
troubled, and rather hysterical and weak-
kneed ; but his feelings, whatever they may
be, are expressed in a comparatively minor
key. The personality of the worried Prince
is interestingly defined and refined without
being forceful. Moreover, he didn’t talk
quite loudly enough
on the first night.
Few of the mortal
characters gave full
tone to their lines,
Greenaway, as a
capital Laertes, be-
ing the most honor-
able exception. The
Ghost (George
Bryant) was very
audible, of course,
for Bryant has an
immense voice
which is deeply im-
pressive in its pre-
sent slow paces—
majestically tomb-
like rather than
cheaply funereal.
Bellairs, as the
Wicked King, does
fairly well con-
sidering his thick
"Hamlet," at Mel-
bourne King's.
Margaret Sutcliffe, as
Ophelia, off her block.
enunciation and habitual tricks of melo-
drama, and Miss Olive Wilton would
be a somewhat strong Gertrude if she paid
more attention to her elocution. Lockhart
is humorous and natural as old-man
Polonius. who is always a bit of a fool
except when giving advice to his children.
But if his diction were rather less free-and-
easy it would be more effective for the pur
pose. Miss Sutcliffe, although she makes
all her points in the mad scene, is an unsafe
factory Ophelia, with an absence of youth
fulness about her. Duggan gets all there
is to be got out of the Gravedigger part in
the ordinary way of business, and seven 1
other men are there or thereabouts. Amone
them is Hugh McCrae, who wears an un-
accustomed air of repose and conceals his
poetic fancy behind weird black whiskers.
“Hamlet” is for six nights only. pj V( ,
classical plays and one week for each is
the Bailey-Grant programme for the period
previous to the panto. A revival of “Much
Ado” begins next Saturday.
“Quinneys,” founded on Vachell’s well-
known novel, and produced by the Taits at
Sydney Playhouse on Saturday, is a charm-
ing comedy of character marred by a techni-
cal fault. The action is confined to the
efforts made by Quinney, a dealer in
antiques, to frustrate the love-affair between
his foreman, James,'and his daughter, Posy.
In the novel James is presented as a schem-
ing youth who loves Posy but means to make
use of her love for him to advance his own
interests. A prior attachment to Quinney’s
typiste—an attachment that gives this girl a
paramount moral claim on James—comes to
the knowledge of the father ; and, after various
attempts to checkmate the lovers, Quinney is
able to buy off the shrewd James with a "big
cheque, while Posy’s happiness, the novelist
hints, is assured by the devotion of a young
American millionaire. In the play, "while
the audience is led to regard James as a
hypocrite and the millionaire as the proper
partner for Posy, nothing comes of the
millionaire’s obvious devotion; and James,
refusing the cheque, is at the last moment
unexpectedly transformed from villain to
hero. Even an audience -which had never
read the novel would be disappointed by this
unexpected denouement , especially as the
scenes between the millionaire and the girl
have been unnecessarily transferred from the
novel. Apart from this fault the comedy is
most attractive. The character of Quinney,
admirably played by Gregan McMahon, "is
quaint and human and forceful. The dealer
is more interested in his collection of
antiques than in his family ; things are more
to his shrewd soul than persons; yet con-
fronted w r ith the loss of Posy and the un-
expected revolt of his meek wife, he learns
unwillingly that he
is more than a
dealer —he is a
father and a hus-
band. Gregan
McMahon presents
this quaint type
with conviction and
artistry; he domi-
nates the stage
without a suspicion
of exaggeration ; he
is untheatrically
true to type. Cyril
Mackay survives
his unsatisfactory
part; and Gerald
Kay Souper (as
the m i llionairel
and Cecil Brooking
and Harold Chubb
are well placed
Tien Hogue proves
herself a capable
and a I tractive hero-
ine ; this young
Australian is well
set on her upward
path. Doris Gilham
presents a subtle
“ Hamlet," at Mel-
bourne King's.
Ophelia's old man is
suspicious (William
Lockhart).
character-study of Quinney’s wife with a
quiet art; and Betty MacMillan usefully
fills the part of the typiste. The action
takes place mainly in Quinney’s sanctuary,
sacred to his finest art treasures, and this
set is a delight to the eye.
Things seem to have got a bit mixed since
The Bulletin last gave out the text to the
congregation. The paper was under the
impression that a horse named Westcourt.
ridden by McLachlan, had won the Cut).
Noxv it transpires that an animal named
Trixie, piloted by George Cross, was the
winner. It is a regrettable fact that some
miscreant sold us a race-book in which Trixie
was not amongst the starters, otherwise the
Religious Editor, at least, would have had
his hose ou it. Trixie being a name that
moves the impressionable part of this office
to pleasant recollections. Also, if it had
been known to the staff that Bilanderson
owned the mare, the “To Let’’ sign would
have been on the Religious Editor's office-
door to-day. And let no man call this family
journal a monstrous and High Court liar
when it says that Trixie and not Westcourt
won the Cup, for the law of slander is mighty
and will prevail—if we can rig the jury-
The evidence to prove the paper’s veracity b
available, for by special arrangements with
Bilanderson the race is being run nightly
at the Hippodrome (Sydney), and done in


GANCIA’S
EXTRA DRY
ASTI SPARKLING SWEET
AS SUPPLIED TO THE KING OF ITALY AND ALL ROYALTIES.
AWARDED
f GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1900.
IGR AND PRIX, BRUSSELS, 1910.
CIVIL SERVICE STORE AND ALL LEADING HOTELS. ASK FOR IT.
Sole Agents for Australasia : LUBRANO FERRARI, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney
ALL OTHER ITALIAN WINES KEPT IN STOCK.
&
- u
i'o
The popularity of this British Spirit has been attained by sheer merit. It
is known all over the world to be a Gin of remarkable quality and possessing
medical properties of the highest character.
SEE THAT YOU GET GILBEY’S ,h w h '„T e ?o".‘ l GIN.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY, Sole Agents.
Hot-weather Clothes
RAJAH TWEED IS POPULAR.
A light, porous Cotton in Black and White Mixture
resembling Tweed. The pattern gives a grey effect and has
a faint-colored striping. These suits are made for us in
India, and the large amount of hand labor incorporated
makes them very strong and serviceable. They stand the
extreme test of washing, and do not soil like light-colored
washing clothes. Unlined and unpadded Sac Coats, with
patch pockets—very light in weight.
Ready to wear 17/6
Trousers to match 14/6
Vest (if required) 11/6
We Pay Postage. Patterns on request.
New catalogue, just from press, now ready.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
/Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
William’s best style. He calls it “The
Chance of a Lifetime.” Unfortunately we
missed it.
❖ 'C v
The only remark that “Seven Days’
Leave” calls for nowanights is that it is still
at Sydney Grand Opera House.
The excellent production of Rostand's
“L’Aiglon” at Sydney Criterion, with Kath-
lene Macdonell in a brilliant exposition of
the Napoleonic youth, will give way on
Saturday to “The Rainbow,” by an American
dramatist, A. E. Thomas.
sjs ;Jc sjc ssc
“The Waybacks” continue their hilarious
mirth at the Palace Theatre (Sydney) while
the manager sorrowfully turns money away
at the front door. When the family from
Bargo comes to Balmain, there’s a sympa-
thetic throb from suburbia as Dads and his
eldest lad light one sewing-machine agent,
two dozen bottle-and-rabbit-ohs, any-old-iron
and other morning callers, while Mums lends
the lady next door a bar of soap.
'ir- :J« jj:
“Mr. Manhattan,” at Sydney Majesty’s, is
emphatically the place that suggests itself
when You’re All Dressed Up and have
Nowhere to Go.
* * * *
“Drowned but Not Dead” is the arresting
label on Sydney Tivoli's latest outburst; but
the return of Reynolds and White to active
vaudeville is more important. The work of
this team is varied and clever, and the
extra-good looks of the lady would ensure
her a respectful hearing even if she couldn’t
play the violin well or dance like a wood
nymph who had been to boarding-school for
a “finish.” “The Beauty Shop,” with its
toilet revelations and a curtain impression
that another act entitled “Three Weeks
Later” should follow, shares about an acre
of programme-time with Roxbury’s revue,
“The Prince of Monte Carlo.” Comedians
Welch and Rego and the dancing Yates pair
continue to earn their salaries (whatever
they may be), and the demure Doris
Thornton and Spanish tenor Roger each
earn a mention in despatches.
$ $ $
Unhappy Russia trails its sorrows over-
Sydney Lyceum and Crystal Palace screens.
The Lyceum shows the work of the revolt-
ing Russian in ruins at Petrograd. while
the Crystal Palace releases the shuddersome
life of Rasputin, the black-souled “monk.”
Volcanic Corsica is made the background for
Hoyt’s drama of love and passion, in which
the regal Olga Petrova stars and stabs.
“Milestones” at the Royal is as charming
as the drama proved some years ago. The
Globe and Majestic are showing “Forbidden
Paths,” a film wherein the heroine is faced
with an unhealthy alternative; and our own
Louise Lovely is doing good work in “The
Reid Case” at the Alhambra.
* * * s;.-
“You’re in Love,” at Melbourne Majesty’s,
is offering a new attraction to front-stall
purchasers. On certain nights the Firm will
place a fl War Savings eertif. in one of
Miss Maud Fane’s slippers, thus adding
national interest, as it were, to the game
of grab. Meanwhile the dancing and the
singing and the unconnubial honeymoon of
the blonde heroine proceed as before.
At Melbourne Princess’s the gentlemanly
bushranger and his mates will commit no
more Robbex-y Under Arms after Friday.
Next night Anderson will refund them “The
Woman Thou Gavest Me.” which is derived
from Hall Caine’s novel, and is charged
with a Purpose.
s': * * *
Marie Tempest has to work hard to realise
the character of Mary Whichello in “Mary
Goes First,” at Melbourne Royal. Mary is
the type of embellished snob whose whole
life is ruled by caste and precedence. Her
great ambition is to
get a bai-onetcy for
her husband so that
she may be Lady and
crow over Lady
Bodsworth, who is
the large and aitch-
less partner of a
mere Iv.C.M.G. The
fact that the Knight
has won his orna-
ment by some com-
paratively useful ser-
vice makes no appeal
to Mary. Indeed, it
only stiffens her i*eso-
lution to harry the
Bodsworths with ill-
natured ridicule,
while prodding hex-
own useless property
towards the House
of Lords. No doubt
a woman like this is
very difficult to interpret in a Vere de Vere
manner; yet Miss Tempest ought to have the
personality or histrionic resources to save
the character from a suggestion of vul-
garity. But the actx-ess cannot show up
THE TIV., SYDNEY.
Harry Roxbury as
the bogus Prince of
Monte Carlo.
Mrs. M hichello without “showing off.” Her
passion for low comedy leads her to spoil
some clever effects with a large repertoire
ot burlesque gestures and odd tricks of
speech. Richard Whichello, a gregarious
noodle driven by his wife’s tongue and a
threatened lawsuit to seek the moderate
solitude of golf, is made thoroughbred in
diction and behavior by actor Graham
Browne, who supplies a very bright study of
the man.
❖ ‘l*
W hat Ada Reeve did with the audiences
at Melbourne Tivoli a few months ago
she is doing once again, and every
time she gets to “Tennessee” the voice
of the multitude is raised in louder
"QUINNEYS," AT
SYDNEY PLAY HOC SE.
Gregan McMahon as
Joe Quinney.
Cecil Brooking as
Sam Tomlin.
chorus. Also her appreciation of the utter
inanity of the words of that tuneful ditty
seems to grow with what it feeds on. The
co. is nearly just the same as it was afore-
time, but there is one new turn. Nieman
and Kennedy, from America, appear as a
pair of hoboes whose hoboishness has points
of difference from that of the early fathers
of the business. Speaking of the old co.
it may be mentioned that the teeth of
Jacobs, the musical conductor,'have lost none
of their gleam, nor has his smile diminished.
* * * *
The days and nights of Wirths’ show
are not exactly numbered at the Circus
building in Melbourne, but it is understood
that the annual visit of the airy entertain-
ment must conclude in a week or two.
Already the lions are growling at the
monotony of their life in one place, and the
elephants wag their heads wearily, as though
they thought it time they got a move on.
The Society for the Admiration of Maud
Fane ought to take sittings at the Melba
Theatre, Melbourne, where the yellow-haired
lady is making love to Percy Marmont in an
Australian version of “The Monk and the
Woman.” Maud is admirable enough in a
physical sense, but her way of bird-liming
Percy does not strike this sinner as particu-
larly fatal. At the Britannia “The Woman
in White,” which commenced on Monday,
will be followed to-day by the barebacked
Olive Thomas in “An Even Break.”
$
The prevailing sensation at Hoyt’s Mel-
bourne house is “The Trail of the Shadow,”
a hurried story of love leaving a wake of
foolish victims over an American prairie.
The causes of the carnage are the bright
eyes and hairdressing of Emmy Wehlen. A
collection of comedy effects aptly christened
“Betty, Be Good,” plays the part of trailer
to the main feature. The plot is very mixed,
but on Saturday this paper patiently sorted
out the details until Betty and a large
chauffeur were made One and a Bit Over.
Thus Sydney Evening News :
The submarine was sent to strike at the “swift
shuttles of an Empire’s loom” : it was designed to
rend the cloth of British economic strength.
To tear John Bull’s trousers, in fact.
“Country Ped”: Peacock in his policy-
speech cackled about reducing the cost of
Parliament. Well, why don’t they? Some
years ago Victoria got a craze for public
libraries, and a small one—there were about
500 of them —was established in nearly
every country State school. Hansard was
religiously forwarded to all. Scores of these
libraries are now defunct; but Hansard
still arrives regularly at the rate of about
10 a session, to be burnt in the playgrounds.
It’s no good returning them, or telling the
Government Printer that they are not
wanted. I’ve tried both methods, but to no
purpose.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Marcellus”: Can anybody explain to me
the cause of the affinity between fools and
custard? That it exists is a common piece
of knowledge to which any moving-picture
worshipper will readily bear witness. Last
week I myself saw one notorious screen fiend
receive no less than eight custards full in the
face and as many more elsewhere. Then I
read in the best-known film magazine that
an American actor played a part in which
he had to stand up to a withering fire of
pies, but was so completely outed in the
36th round that he was driven to cancel his
engagement. Evidently the Yankees have
no use for a mere 36 pie-power fool. Away
back even so far as Elizabeth’s time it was
a city council job (on public occasions,
Mafeking nights, and such like) for the
Municipal Fool to leap into a foaming cask
of custard set conveniently for the purpose.
There is an allusion to this bit of ass-play
in Ben Jonson.
“Ancient Prompter” : When “L’Aiglon” is
done with, something from America called
“The Rainbow” will be served up by Ivath-
lene Macdonell and Waldron. It is “a
comedy of hearts.” by one Thomas, whose
work, so far as I know, has never yet been
sampled by Australia.
“First Old Man”: Melbourne is to have
two pantomimes this coming Christmas. The
annual outbreak at Her Majesty’s will this
time be called “Pick Whittington,” and it
is actually averred that the J.C.W. firm has
engaged a local scribe to do the “book.”
The King’s will present as a rival frivolity
a version of “Aladdin” under the direction
of the Taits and Bailey and Grant. Com-
edian Bert Bailey will figure as Widow
Twankey, and Barry Lupino will also
comede.
“Stargazer” : In the theatrical game com-
parisons, however odious, are inevitable, and
seeing “Caste” my mind turned irresistibly
to the finest all-round comedy performance
I ever saw, that of “Caste,” given by Brough
and Boucicault in the Bijou Theatre many,
many years ago, with Anson the unctuous
as Eccles, supported by a singularly accom-
plished company, and enjoying the advantage
of superb production—not superb in accoutre-
ments but in artistic detail. Is the Eccles
of Maude as good as that of Anson? • I
think not, and the difference is typical of
the good acting of to-day as compared with
the good acting of the Brough-and-Bouci-
eault time. Good acting to-day is more
“actory,” more conscious, more worked up
and affected, and consequently to a large
extent less human even when more amusing.
I see the actor in Maude’s Eccles where I
saw in Anson’s Eccles an entity, a living
scamp who remains in memory as an actual
personality divorced almost entirely of stage
accessories and associations. Anson’s Eccles
suggested that it w T as born, not made, whereas
Maude’s Eccles is made, not born, although
so excellently made as almost to deceive one
at times into the belief that the lifelike thing
is really living.
“0.K.,” after visiting a very old friend: —
In the 27 years that have developed the art of
comedy-drama writing since Brough and Boucicault
staged Robertson’s play in Melbourne, the construc-
tion of “Caste” has grown almost as old-fashioned
as the style of “The Lady of Lyons.” The simple
directness with which the situation is explained in
conversation between the hero and the moralist, as
soon as the curtain rises, is not more out of date
than the crudity of the moralist’s references to the
inexorable laws of Class distinction, especially where
the question is concerned of a young toff’s marriage
with a sweetly, homely ballet-girl who supports a
drunken old father under the impression that he
can’t be half as despicable as he actually is. The
characters all round are sketchily Dickensesque.
The two daughters of boozer Eccles are angels of the
two conventional types—one romantically senti-
mental, the other sportively practical. The high-
born lover is a beautiful soul of honah whereto
common wordly considerations can find no entrance
when Love guards the portal. His lady Mother
has such an acute reverence for Rank that she talks
of nothing else. The “heavy swell” officah is in-
tensely chivalrous, whilst the gasfitter and plumber
who courts the lively sister is the most honest, out-
spoken plumber that ever wore a heart of gold. The
good types are idealised; the bad type is exagger-
ated in the interests of spectacular virtue. Filial
duty, motherly love, sisterly devotion, conjugal
affection and loyal friendship are the themes, and
the Tennysonian aphorism that “Kind hearts are more
than coronets” is the motto of the play. The
doting husband returns from the dead even more
suddenly than Silver King, to find his wife in a
widow's cap and the shadow of impecuniosity, blessed
with a baby whose advent he had hardly suspected.
“Caste” is pure and wholesome—a draught of milk
of human kindness fresh from the literary cow.
There remains at the finish only the question of
what to do with awful old Eccles. Captain Haw-
trey disposes of the difficulty by suggesting to the
acquiescent reprobate: “If you had £1 a week to
haw—live in Jersey, where spirits are cheap, do
you think haw you could drink yourself to death
in a yeah?”
“Tabywana”: William H. Kendal’s death
in London last week ends a life-partnership
which has proved one of the most romantic
in the history of the stage. When, in 1869,
he married Madge Robertson (sister of T.
W. Robertson, who wrote “Caste”) her
father gave his consent on condition that
if she appeared on the stage it should
be only with her husband. This association
Mr. and Mrs. Kendal maintained until their
retirement seven years ago. Mrs. Kendal,
one of the wittiest of women, who comes of
a family of actors, made her first hit in
London as Blanche Dumont in “A Hero of
Romance” in 1868, at the Haymarket, then
under the direction of Buekstone. Husband
and wife were in partnership with John Hare
for many years, running St. James’s Theatre,
when “Impulse,” “The Ironmaster” and “A
Scrap of Paper” were amongst the plays in
which they drew London. Dorothy Grim-
ston, who came to Australia for the J. C.
Williamson production of "The Flag Lieu-
tenant,” is their daughter.
“Marc” : “Hamlet,” Act 2, Scene 1. The
Melancholy Dane says to Polonius: “Your-
self, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
you could go backward.” Maclaren, in his
King's Theatre version, substitutes “scarab”
for “crab”; and he apparently has reason
when he asserts that the scarabseus
is almost certainly the gentleman Shaks.
intended. The crab sidesteps, the scarab
goes backwards. Also, as most of us know,
the scarab was used by the Egyptians for a
symbol of immortality, which helps to
strengthen Maclaren’s theory.
supposable rejuvenation has then immedi-
ately two parallels; the first contained in
the allusion to the beetle’s back-pedalling
proclivities, the other in the peculiar symbol-
ism which induced the Egyptians to discover
in this insect an emblem of the world, of
fatherhood and of man.
Amory Sullivan, who half a century ago
was manager for his father, Barry Sullivan,
in Australia, is feeling good about his young-
est son. Signaller John Sidney Sullivan, who
has been awarded the Military Medal for
conspicuous bravery. The young man was
recently wounded. One brother was killed at
Gallipoli and another in France, and two
more have been invalided.
“75”: Two of Australia’s acquaintances
are in the London revival of “Trelawny of
the Wells.” One is Pollie Emery, the other
Martin Lewis, a young man who did good
work here with Julius Knight and Waller.
Remember his sketch of the artistocratic
young bounder in the last act of “Mile-
stones” ?
“B. J.” : Tom Preston, the agile and genu-
inely comic dancer who scores in “You’re in
Love,” was a casual find for the Firm. He
strolled into Sydney Majesty’s for a
voice trial, ended his song with a dance, and
was rushed at by one of the J.C.W. officials
with a contract in one hand and a fountain-
pen in the other.
“Masetto”: In Cyril Maude’s revival of
“Caste” the most enjoyable feature to me
was the clear enunciation of Ethel Morrison
as the aristocratic Marquise. She was the
only one on the stage who sent every word
past the front stalls. Some of Maude’s
people badly need livening up. Facial ges-
ture. and body action may be enough for the
movie business, but the public which pays to
hear as well as see ought to be considered
occasionally. Why is it that players in
comic opera usually speak their lines better
than those in drama? I remember how
Charles Ivenningham, a dozen years ago,
easily surpassed in that direction most
members of a Shakspearean co. that he was
associated with.
“Norbell”: “Masetto” (B. 18/10/’l7)
remembers that Nellie Stewart played with
Edwin Kelly in “Les Cloches.” She was
with him also in “La Maseotte,” “Tambour
Major,” “Estrella” (I think) and other old-
timers. I saw Kelly as Baron to Nellie
Stewart’s Cinderella in the ’B3-4 panto at
the Melbourne Royal. Apropos of opera-
buffers, Johnny Wallace is still going strong.
At the moment of writing he is the Lord
Goodie of an amateur production of “The
Runaway Girl” at His Majesty’s, Brisbane.
“Veteran”: I flattered myself I could play
Othello. A lot of other people thought I
could play it, but none of them thought I
could play it as well as I thought I could.
I admit I put all there was in me into the
part. I came out tuckered up, but trium-
phant, and the season went just on four
weeks. It was a score, and I was justly
proud of it. I was still proud a week later,
when a man called at my hotel. He wanted
to see me on important business. “I’ve seen
you play Othello,” said he. “I went three
times to make sure, and now I’m prepared
to make you an offer.” He was a stranger tc
me, but a mad, momentary vision of a new
management with me as its star lightened the
sky. “It’s a permanent job,” continued my
visitor. “The man who can deal with
women like your Othello does is just the
manager I want for my laundry.”
(Continued on page 26.)


LADIES!
You can make your skin more attractive. Why
not do so? Study your skin, find out what is
keeping you from being attractive. Do not say
it is useless to try to change the skin itself. It
changes every day in spite of you; as old skin
dies, new skin forms to take its place. This new skin will be just what
you make it; by attention you can have that charm of “A skin everyone
envies.”
If you persevere the charm will come to stay.
John gjj|trange
inter’s
Ifocgv
NEW
\tcw
TOILET PREPARATIONS WILL HELP YOU. “ k *°n. the most
USED BY ROYALTY, A SUFFICIENT GUARANTEE FOR YOU.
Ask for them at all Departmental Stores and Chemistsv
Powders (3 tints), New Face Cream (3 colors), Eakshmi Cream and Lotion,
Soap, Hair Foods (Oily and Non-Oily), Carmine, Dry Shampoo, and Dental
Cream.
Send 3di stamp for sample of Soap, or Dental Cream, or Powder (name the
tint) and Booklet, to John Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome). Sydney
Office: 33 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street.
\Aeltoman
I T I HIGH-CLASS
.[SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
i From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN (§ SONS LONDON
AOENCIES * ALL * OVER « THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Steve Hart”: Anyone who knows the
blacksoil of the West can imagine a coach
trip after 2in. of rain. There was only the
driver, a very silent returned Billjim (minus
the filling of one sleeve) and myself. With
much profanity and whip-cracking we
lurched along, slower than Billy Hughes
winning the war. At one particularly bad
spot, after five minutes’ consecutive cursing,
the driver turned to Billjim and asked: “Is
the mud in France anything like this?”
Billjim woke from his reverie and glanced
round. “We’d call this a blanky dust-
storm,” was all he said.
THE SUITOR.
H IM: “By Love, you don't know what I have
gone through!"
H ER: “ That's all right—hut what have you
got left?”
“Country Fed”: The Victorian women
State-school teachers have been comparing
their salaries with those of other women
workers, and have discovered that the maxi-
mum pay of the great majority of them
(£130) is less than the minimum of com-
paratively unskilled workers in the boot
and clothing factories. A junior teacher,
after having gone through a High School
course and three years’ teaching, becomes
an assistant at £BO. If she takes charge of
a country school she gets £100: a barmaid
beats her with 445. per week. In two years
her salary is £l2O, which compares fairly
well with a woman assistant in charge of
a butcher’s branch shop—sos. weekly. After
some years’ hard work she may rise to
Class V., receiving from £l2O to £lOO.
(“Females, with or without experience, em-
ployed clicking insides or outsides of uppers,
or stuff cutting, or preparing for makers, or
making or finishing—6os. per week.”) .Then
the 50 experts at the top of the service in
Class 11., which is reached after about 25
or 35 years’ service. These women are just
a little more valuable than head saleswomen
in the boot trade —755. to 85s. a week. Edu-
cation is a terrible handicap in Australia.
STILL NON-COMMITTAL.
THE WIFE : “Now, don't you think the
money on this dress was well spent?”
THE HUSBAND : “My dear, I don’t know how
the dressmaker invested it.”
“M.8.R.” : There seems to be an evil tra-
dition that the hospital nurse must always
be overworked. This is the round at one of
the big Sydney hospitals:—
(1) The nurses are on duty 12 hours a day, in-
cluding three half-hours for meals, at which attend-
ance is compulsory.
(2) On night duty they work 10 hours for from
14 to 20 weeks, wi'thout one night off.
(3) A workingman may do 44 or 48 hours a week.
A nurse does 72 —if she is lucky enough to get- off
to time.
(4) Outside the 12 hours a day, she must attend
lectures and study for her examinations.
(5) Almost all the second-year nurses and some of
those of third year are doing probationers’ work, and
yet they are required to pass theoretical examina-
tions on work about which they have had no chance
of gaining practical experience. The four-year
course is supposed to include dispensing and theatre
experience. The nurse is then supposed to be
qualified to take the responsibility of the ward. How
can she be if she is still doing probationer’s work in
her third year ?
(6) Most wards are understaffed at least three
days in the week, so the nurses are overworked
during their 12 hours on duty, for the work must
be done by someone.
(7) Holidays are always three to six months over-
due.
(8) The remuneration is negligible.
It is b:.d enough to underpay and overwork
these women; but the fact that some of
them are not given a sporting chance to
thoroughly learn their profession is disgrace-
ful.
Another correspondent on the subject:—
You hear depressing stories of overwork in big
city hospitals, and I know from experience that the
understaffed country hospital is quite merciless.
Financial distress was the excuse offered by the
hospital I was in, although the annual report always
showed a goad credit balance. I have gone on duty
at 6.30 a.m., worked steadily till 6 p.m. (when
1 was due. to go off), having had in that time half an
hour for lunch and less for breakfast and tea; then
have gone into the operating-theatre and worked till
2 a.m. This did not mean actual educative surgical
work, but just cleaning up after the doctors had
finished and leaving the theatre aseptic and ready
for the next operation. I have known this to happen
often, not only to nurses in training—who in a way
look for that kind of job as part of it—but to the
certificated nurse, too. Of course, no one minds the
extra hours of the “immediate,” life-saving opera-
tion, but it is the yearly round that hurts. (The
most beautiful thing I have seen was the red bloo
stealing back to a little baby’s blue lips, saved from
certain suffocation by an “immediate” operation
that brought us out of bed at 1.30 a.m.) A nurse
in training goes on duty daily at 6.30 a.m., some-
times 6. Every day she works 12 hours, and if the
wards are heavy two hours overtime is a mere trifle
that is not made up on pay-day. She gets an annual
holiday of three weeks plus two days a month “off.”
This is the daily round for four or five years accord-
ing to term of training, and during her drudgery she
is expected to work up her lectures and study for her
examinations —no mean thing to an over-tired girl.
Of course, one acquires a profession, but the price
is too heavy. Yet it has its humorous side. The
members of our committee were, and are, staunch
eight-hour men!
“Kuku-kuku”: l’apua, especialy the east
end, has felt the pinch of diminished ship-
ping shrewdly of late. When there was no
butter in Samarai, and little sugar, people
said it was war-time, and consoled them-
selves with jam. When flour ran short, they
growled a little and ate biscuits. But a few
weeks ago, when rice, the staple food of all
the thousands of Papua’s employed laborers,
didn’t come, there arose a wail
from every planter, trader and
general employer of labor that
shook the cocoanuts almost off East
Cape. Picture it —several hundred
boys, perhaps, on one plantation,
nothing to give them, and a stern
Government ready to “have at
you” with a spear-pointed ordi-
nance straight away if you did not
perform miracles. Lots of boys
were signed off hurriedly and sent
home to relatives who were not at
all overjoyed to see them. Orders
to recruiters were countermanded.
And for the rest all of us sent our
boys off making sago. Boat after
boat went out from Samarai to the
mainland, carrying prisoners from
the gaol, police, store-boys, house-
boys ; the bush was hunted for
sago, and every creek had its band
of naked Papuans chopping and
washing literally for life. One good
palm is said to give enough to feed
a family for a year; it doesn’t do
anything of the kind, but you’ll get
3001 b. if it is very good, and that
will keep 10 boys pretty nearly a
fortnight. Sago is pleasant food, cooked
white-man fashion, like starch, into a
jelly ; but it doesn’t taste in any way like
the alleged sago of shops. The native boils
it in lumps.
* * * *
Decided by Adelaide Police Court that it
is no offence for a man to warn his mates
that the police are coming. At least, it was
hardly the Adelaide S.M. who decided it.
Counsel for the defence cited an English
case in which the Lord Chief Justice had
held that giving an alarm is not in itself
criminal; and that was taken as settling the
matter.
HAPPY MEMORIES.
MISS: “Is it true, Mr. Owen, that, you spent
seven years in Germany prior to the
war ?”
MR. OWEN: “Yes.”
MISS: "And I suppose you have some very
pleasant recollections of your stay
there?”
MR. OWEN : "Um! Once in Berlin I counted,
nine funerals in one afternoon.”
Hughes and Higgins, one Prime Minister
and the other High Court Judge, have been
busy exchanging compliments. Higgins savs
in effect, that, at the time of the coal-miners’
strike last year, he was invited by Hughes
to hold a bogus Arbitration Court the
award having been fixed up in advance bv
the Priminister ; Hughes says the High Court
Judge is a wilful and monstrous liar The
High Court Judge says there are or were
THE COMFORTER.
VOICE FROM THE BED: “Whatever are you
doing, George?”
GEORGE: “Looking for the baby's comforter,
dear!”
documents to prove his contentions, and chal-
lenges Hughes to produce them ; and Hughes
replies in effect “Nothing doing!” But
something will have to be doing. Apart from
all other considerations it is clear that if
Hughes appeared in the Arbitration Court
in his capacity of Attorney-General and
addressed the Bench in the same terms he
would be committed for contempt. It is also
clear that unless Higgins had justification
for what he said his position in his court
must be seriously discounted. Therefore the
points at issue must be cleared up, and with-
out delay. Higgins seems to think that the
Prime Minister is so over-wrought as to be
more or less irresponsible. That may be so.
If it is the.case there are very substantial
reasons why the public should know all about
it.
* * * *
A boy-witness in Sydney Children’s Court
was recently asked the usual question,
“Where do liars go?” The kid had no doubt
about it. “First to Mittagong,” he said,
promptly, “and then to Hell.” The N. S.
Wales reformatory for boys is at the half-
way house.
* * * *
“Cyril Surcingle”: This is the way the
Defence Department is building up an effici-
ent citizen force. I was at Broadmeadows
(Vic.) when trainees were in camp and
watched the process. Six quotas were in-
cluded —1894 to IS99 —and the 1894 lot
had exactly the same
training as those of
1899. This consisted
of elementary rifle
drill, squad drill, etc.
As one of the 1894
quota—a man of
nearly 24 —disgustedly
told me, they have
been getting this for
five years, and noth-
ing further. Surely
even to hold the in-
terest of these men
the Department should
divide them up into
squads according to
quota and let the
sergeant-majors give
the older hands some
advanced work. Num-
bers of them know
nothing of the care
of arms or even of
such a simple opera-
tion as piling arms;
and while each suc-
ceeding quota is
merely bumped in
indiscriminately, they
never will.
“Ouyen” : At last the country has got its
travelling bank, as well as its hawking
baker and butcher and its travelling jolmny-
all-sorts. The mallee country on the borders
of Vic. and S. Australia produced it—a bank
that covers a distance of 60 miles along the
Ouyen-Pinnaroo line, and through which
cocky can transact his business two days a
week at given points. The bank claims that
it supplies the only service of the kind in the
world ; and I haven’t found any evidence to
the contrary.
THE RIVAL DEATHS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is now believed that the disaster which over-
took the Matunga was the result of a submarine
disturbance.”
The sunk mines swayed off Gabo,
And, deep in driving keels,
The timed bombs grimly bided
The turning of slow wheels.
This hull and that, man-stricken,
In lonely seas were lost,
Or, where the ship-roads thicken,
By drowning tides were crost.
The raiders off Levuka
Took toll of little ships;
The steamers steal like shadows
With fingers to their lips.
Men against mankind pitted,
With Death at beck and call,
Dreamed that they had outwitted
The Power that holds us all.
Into her secret places
Their busy minds had pried.
Above her radiant heavens,
Beneath her darkest tide,
Their warring engines, zealous,
And deep hulls thundered past.
Perchance a heart made jealous
Moved Nature’s hand at last.
Her submarines, attacking,
Immense torpedoes hurled,
With Hell’s own hate to urge them
From the black under-world.
Each blow a blow hard-driven
That naught may e’er withstand.
There was no quarter given,
Nor mercy in her hand.
She is man’s foe forever;
Yet in her very eyes,
He wages bitter battles
From sea-deeps to the skies.
There may be peace to-morrow
And pledges of good faith,
Yet there would still be sorrow—
Who can make truce with Death?
MAORI LAND.
WILL LAWSON.


The medicine that goes hand in hand with good health—a kind of twin brother —that
brings physical confidence, strength, mental energy and clearness, is Clements Tonic,
because it possesses those specific properties that rebuild the human constitution. It
strengthens the working parts, cleanses the stomach, purifies the blood, thus creating new
conditions with good health results to the user. If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the testimonies given afford it, written by those
who can well afford by experience to judge of its merits. For the general good of
the public they are published throughout Australia, and are well worth reading.
Over 300 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been received in the last few months, which may be seen and verified at the
offices of the Company, Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to-day, and get well. Do not wait until to-morrow.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
During the Town-Planning Conference in
Adelaide a lot was heard about the big but
ornamental railing round all the many local
“squares.” It took the place of the old
post-and-rails 30 years ago, and was con-
sidered an added beauty then ; but the mod-
ern town-planner wants the street to just
merge into park. The Mail, Adelaide’s brisk
Sunday paper, clamored for the wiping-out
of the “obstructions,” but Adelaide remem-
bered the casual habits of the local quad-
ruped, and there was never any general back-
ing for the demand ; and, when Sydney and
Melbourne were consulted, and reported that
something has to take the place of the fence
to prevent human tracks cutting into the
grass at all points, Adelaide decided that a
dwarf wall, with possible reinforcement of
barbed wire, is not sufficient improvement on
an open railing to make the costly change
worth while at present.
“Ivan P.”: The death of Mary Newcombe
Balcombe revives the story. Just about 102
years ago, Napoleon Bonaparte, who had
played and lost the game which Berlin
Bill is now staking everything upon,
arrived at St. Helena to do his life
sentence. As Longwood House, which
KNEW HIM AT ONCE.
PORTLY PERSON : “I see you have arrested
a man whose mind is a blank.”
OFFICER: “We have, madam.”
PORTLY PERSON : “Then let me have a look
at him. My Henry didn’t come home
last night, and that’s a fairly good
description of him.”
he was to occupy, was not quite ready
for him, he was quartered at The Briars
with William Balcombe, the British naval
agent in the island. Thus Balcombe and Boney
became such good pals that Hudson Lowe,
Nap.’s gaoler, got suspicious, and had Bal-
combe recalled to England, whence he was
sent _to Australia as Colonial Treasurer,
arriving in Sydney in 1823. The family has
lived in this country ever since, and Mary
Newcombe Balcombe, who died at Waverley
the other day, was the original’s grand-
daughter. Her brother, who is deputy-regis-
trar of the Equity Court in Sydney, calls his
Wahroonga wigwam The Briars in memory
of the far-off St. Helena days when grandpa
took in emperors as boarders.
THE BRUTE.
MRS. FIZZ: “My husband is a perfect brute.”
VISITOR : “Oh! You do astonish me!”
MRS. FIZZ : “Yes, he is. Since baby began teething nothing will quieten the little angel
but pulling papa's moustache, and (would you believe it?) yesterday he had it
shaved off!"
“Dr. Nil”: The Bulletin, commenting
on Dr. Arthur’s proposal to further
“encourage” little Billjim, says that the
£5 bonus already paid “is to a greaft extent
wasted,” and adds that “from the national
point of view, far greater value would be
got if the money were pooled and provision
thereby made for the proper care of the
mother before, during and after childbirth.”
Quite right. Listen to my own
experiences. Before the “Baby
Bonus” Act came into force we
bloated medical aristocratic land-
sharks used to get a fair propor-
tion of our very small and inad-
equate midwifery fees, after doing
at times difficult and dangerous
surgical operations and putting in
an anxious week of after-attend-
ance. But since the Act has got
to work I am paid about
30 per cent, less than
before. Before the “bonus”
the woman used to save up
the two guineas or what-
ever it was and hand it to
the doctor on his last
visit. After the bonus the
husband objected to the
saving up and said: “You
get your bonus and must
pay it out of that!” She
retorted: “No, the bonus
is mine. You must pay
the doctor.” Result:
Neither pays the doctor.
One woman said to me : “I
was going to pay you out of the bonus, but
we had to spend it on mourning for my
aunt.”
* * * x
“Captain”: When the Australian shilling
was substituted for the German mark piece
at Rabaul, after the Australian occupation,
the niggers had no time for it, doubting its
dinkum value. In the midst of the difficulty
someone had a brain wave, and word passed
that the face on the coin was that of the
Administrator (Brig.-General Pethebridge),
who wears a close-cropped beard similar to
that of George Rex. That did the trick. The
natives rushed the newcomer, and though
many times since they’ve been told that
“Face belonga King George, ’im good fella,
Kaiser no good, he go finish,” most of them
still hold that the features are those of “Big
fella he stop longa top,” i.e., the Adminis-
trator, who lives up the hill at Government
House.
* * * *
The Speck’s Commissioner of Police,
Andrew Arthur, makes the astounding state-
ment that over 50 per cent, of the convic-
tions for housebreaking, larceny, etc., in
Hobart last year were of boys under 15 years
of age. The cases are heard in the magis-
trate’s room, the police are in plain clothes,
and the kids mostly get off with a lecture,
retiring with their tongue in their cheek.
Arthur suggests that the magistrates ought
to be empowered to commit for short terms
to the training-school—-the present minimum
is three years, and in dozens of cases the
Bench isn’t willing to commit a youngster
for so long as that.
“ J.K.” : Be French decorations. The
Legion of Honor is the premier order of the
Republic. The grades of the order are:
Grand Croix, Grand
Officiers, Commandeurs,
Officiers and Chevaliers.
It is a rarer distinction
than the Medaille Mili-
taire, which corresponds
more to our D.C.M.
The Croix de Guerre,
established only a few
months after our M.C.,
really commemorates a
mention in any des-
patches, from army to
regimental. Hence its
value varies v e r y
greatly and the type of
“mention” for which the
medal was awarded may
be gauged by the em-
bellishment on the rib-
bon —a rm y despatch
mention, bronze laurel
branch; army corps
ditto, silver-gilt star;
divisional, silver star;
brigade or regimental,
bronze star. A recipi-
ent may be mentioned
subsequently in other
despatches and may wear, for instance, both
the silver-gilt and bronze stars.
“8.E.D.”: The candidate was seeking to
win the affection of the electors farthest out
by eloquently espousing their cause in the
matter of good roads. He gave one meeting
a yarn, intended to be comic, of a well-known
resident in another corner of the electorate,
who had started out to lead a cow T to the
station town. She was a prize cow, and was
to be entered in the li.A.S. show. The man
bogged in many places, and eventually en-
tirely disappeared. The candidate went on
to explain that he had brought the shocking
case of this poor, lost farmer before the
Government, and the Minister for Agricul-
ture had replied : “Well, I don’t know what
we can do for you, but we will send up a
mud dredge if you think it advisable.” Next
day the candidate was at his committee
rooms, when an agricultural supporter sidled
up. He was evidently dissatisfied. “That
story of yours last night,” he said —“it
hadn’t no point. You never said what really
become of the cow.”
* * X if
“Hamer”: A squad of London beggars
(juvenile and adult) were rounded by the
police the other day and bound over to re-
frain from pestering Australian soldiers for
money. The rallying place for these pests
is the vicinity of the Commonwealth Bank,
where their clamor for baksheesh has be-
come a nuisance. The small boy, especially,
thrusts his services forward as an unofficial
guide, and it is distressing to hear a youth
of eight or nine volunteering to give informa-
tion regarding the whereabouts of houses of
dalliance and adding the information: “You
won’t cop anything there.” The average
Australian soldier really hasn’t got an abun-
dance of money; he only spends it as if he
had. Wherefore he is reckoned fair game
by every cadger and harpy in London.
* * * *
The fretful Considine, who pushed Josh
Thomas out of the Barrier seat in the
House of Reps., has had a worrying time. A
good many -months ago a woman who had
taken a job at a Broken Hill pub under
an award which the local Miners’ Assoc,
didn’t like, was persecuted by that body.
It was bad luck for the A.M.A. that she
bore the fighting name of Egan; for she
carried through an action against Considine
and other officers, and got a verdict for sub-
stantial damages and costs. The damages
were still unpaid when Parliament went into
recess; whereupon the militant lady began
proceedings anew, and the A.M.A. has had
to back a bill for about £llOO. Considine’s
idea is to get work to keep himself going
and hand over his Parliamentary screw;
and as others who are said to have suffered
as much as the Egan lady are getting their
guns ready, prospects just now are only
middling.
STRICTLY REGIMENTAL.
“Halt! Who goes there?”
“Shut up, you blitherer! Can't you see I'm
coming back?”
RUM RESOLUTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The annual convention of the Women’s Christian
Temperance Union in Melbourne carried a resolution
that a message be sent to the Prime Minister of
England to the effect that “the Union, representing
90 branches, respectfully requests that the rum
ration be not offered to Australian soldiers.”
Not ours to stand the freezing watch far in the
haunted waste;
It is our job to roost at home and “hate the very
taste.”
No rum for us! Hand round the tea and keep the
bonnets straight;
Bedsocks, hot-water bags and bricks will see us
through our wait.
We fear no foe when warm but oh! it
makes us glum
To picture blue-lipped fighting n. V consuming tots
of rum.
“The winter cold that grips like Death”? Far
better that it grip
Than soldier, soldier! you should let that poison
touch your lip!
You will feel better presently—the winter won’t be
long,
So shun the demon in the cup and sneeze a ternp’-
rance song,
Ere long sun will shine, for summer is
ahead,
And then at least you’ll sober be—what matter if
you’re dead ?
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
THE STAY-AT-HOME SCRAPPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It has now been ascertained that the mine-
sweepers off Gabo dragged to the surface of the sea
mines, all of the most modern type, and terrifically
powerful. They bore markings indicating that they
had been manufactured in Germany.”
Yairs 1 Leaning against this corner post
I ’ear ’Ughes brag, and I ’ear ’Ughes boast,
And th’ war’s about as reel as a ghost—
I’ll fight when it reaches Australyier.
You don’t catch me goin’ to fight in France,
An’ ftnishin’ up in an ambulance ;
I’m booked for Australyier, I am. No chance!
My battleground’s ’ere —in Australyier.
No, it ain’t cold feet, and it ain't plain funk !
Them blanky recruiters’ talkin’ punk !
Wot’s that? Well, serpose that a ship was sunk
Just there orf th’ coast of Australyier!
Wot th’ ’ell ’as that got ter do with me?
Will it ’urt if it’s out on th’ flamin’ sea?
No chance! I’ll wait till they land on th’ Quay.
Then gimme some rocks for Australyier !
N.S.W.
BILLO THE NARK.


CAESAR HUGHES AND THE NUMEROUS BRUTUS.
[DAVID LOW, BULLETIN Office, Collins-street, Melbourne.]


“MY MATE BILL.”
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]


Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
g •
/
LEWIS &
whirry
MAKERS
S
SHE
SS.SS&
fatliii
Q
&3§.t
Mg®
$
w
Ml
-U
or any paragraphs that require a signature and
aie not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, Jons
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
ggfc
*' V.
.
New Zealand
Why not visit NEW
ZEALAND, the Won-
derland of the World,
and enjoy
A Real Good
Holiday ?
Special Tourist Excursion
Tickets on Railways.
Pamphlets and full
information supplied
. free at
Maori Life, New Zealand.
Zealand Governments
Offices— I
SYDNEY: 14 MOORE STREET.
MELBOURNE: 59 WILLIAM STREET.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melachrino
Cigarettes
SHAPING WELL.
HE: “You girls seem to live in your bathing
rig lately. What's the idea?"
SHE: “Saving. We're going without our
summer frocks and putting the money
in War Loan Bonds.”
HE: That's right! If all the women did
that what splendid figures we might
see!”
Leslie Maygar, tlian whom no finer Light
Horseman ever filled a saddle, is part of the
price Australia has had to pay for the cap-
rure of Beersheba. He was among the
D.S.O.’s in the last Birthday Honors list, and
had previously won the V.C. when in
S’Africa with the sth Victorian Mounted
Kifles. He gained the bit of bronze as a
lieutenant at Geelhoutboom, when he lifted
on to his own horse, within 200 yards of the
advancing Boers, a trooper whose animal had
been shot under him. Maygar’s charger
bolted into boggy ground and unseated both
riders, whereupon Leslie hoisted his comrade
into the saddle again, and told him to gallop
for cover, while he followed on foot and
under fire. Lieut. (then Sergt.) J. Rogers,
the only other Victorian to win the V.C. in
that campaign, was with the same brigade
as Maygar early in the present disturbance.
Born in IS7I in the Longwood district of
V ictoria, whence several V.C.’s and D SO’s
have sprung, Maygar rose from captain to
lieut.-colonel in Gallipoli, and was more than
once in despatches.
Federal Opposition-leader Frank Tudor
says good-bye this week to his oldest hov
who is oft to the usual address. He enlisted
as soon as he was 18.
( Bill Denny, the first and only M.P. from
8. Aus. to reach the firing-line, is a good
sample of the Australian who does things.
After leaving the Christian Bros.’ College
m Adelaide, he began as a junior in the
and became weather
! ' k ; s ,£ he of the Southern
l ! H tlg v T ant Denny aPPlied for
the billet with such persistence that with
no journalistic experience, but possessing a
faciie pen, he got the job. lie made good
and the paper prospered. Looking to poli-
tics he pushed into the City Council at 2:>,
and put up for Parliament about the same
opposition to Kingston and E I
Batchelor at West Adelaide. Kingston was
Premier at the time and Batchelor leader of
the Labor party. At the last moment
they joined forces, however, and Denny
was defeated. But he put up such an
amazing tight that he scored 1600 against
Kingston and Batchelor’s 2200 each. Shortly
after this Kingston resigned, and left his
goodwill with his young opponent, who won
easily. J. H. Gordon (now Judge) advised
him to study law. Resigning his editorship
he went back to school and matriculated, and
had passed the necessary legal exams, a
year before the expiration of his articles.
Almost at once he became Attorney-General
in the Verran Government. Deciding to fol-
low the call, he enlisted as a private, soon
won a commission and lately a Military
Cross. Between times he has been captain
and stroke of the Commercial Rowing Club,
a keen cricketer and footballer, and of recent
years an A.R.C. steward.
Peter Ball, of Adelaide, took the fancy of
Johnstone, the Yank expert who came to
report on the River Murray locking, and
went back with him. Two years ago the
brilliant young man crossed to England to
enlist, and before he was killed last month
he had climbed up to be acting-major in a
siege battery.
Passed out in France, Bruce Buchanan,
of Burwood (N.S.W.), at 23 a veteran of
Australia’s army. When Buchanan left
Sydney Grammar for a clerkship in the
Sugar Co.’s head office, compulsory training
had put him through the cadet ranks to a
lieutenancy in the Commonwealth militia.
As soon as Bill started to misbehave,
Buchanan offered to make one _to drop him
in his place; and he left Australia as lieu-
tenant in the first battalion. lie was at
the Landing, and both lan Hamilton’s and
Birdwood’s despatches testify that he was
keeping his end well up on the Peninsula till
enteric found him. They sent him back to
Sydney for a spell; but he joined his mates
again in France in time to be wounded in
the Somme battles last year. Back again
at the Front, he had climbed up to major
and second in command of his battalion when
the end came in October.
Let us admit the decency of a German
now and then. Capt. Charles Arblaster, a
boy of 22, one of the first batch of Dun-
troon students, was dreadfully wounded at
Amentieres, and died next day in the Ger-
man hospital at Douai. After his death a
German hospital doctor wrote the boy’s
mother a note, telling of the fatal
nature of her son’s wounds, giving details of
his funeral and the place of his burial. The
writer added that Capt. Arblaster’s effects
would be sent on to Australia in due course.
These, coming through Switzerland, duly
arrived at his home in Footscray (Vic.) —•
all except a pair of field-glasses.
When Wilhelm showed the danger signal,
Richmond (Vic.) stationmaster G. Goble
was too old to join Australia’s breakdown
gang, but his four sons lost no time in
getting up steam. Lieut. Stanley Goble, a
relieving stationmaster, hopped into the
Naval Air Service in 1915, and now wears
the D. 5.0.. the D.S.C. and the French War
Cross. Lieut. X. F. Goble, formerly of
the Railways clerical branch, went away
with the A.1.F.. gained his commission, and
died of wounds in France. Harold C. has
been invalided home, and Private Oliver E.
is in training at Bendigo.
GEORGE ELMS LIE,
Victorian Opposition
Leader.
Hie first R.G. marriage in Australia was
celebrated by the Irish exiled priest Father
0D , 1,,n A !' iy 1803, when Henrv Simp-
Rourk? iP nf IS Ti’ W » S , nUiri ' ied t 0 Catherine
iCoutke, of Ihe Rocks, widow. Father
Ihxon had just obtained permission from
Governor King to perform the sacred duties
ot his office, subject to regulations.
Tom Sutton, late pilot and
is a hardy old boy, who at 84
yard at Geelong, cutting his own 1 od '
but bad customers strangled the 3 Phes:
lie came to Australia at l(j j n rl j, l ' str J'-
schooner Devonshire, which afterward!^
COM HANDER CURTIS ( Queensland )
the first missionaries to Fiji. Having traded
among the islands for two years, Sutton
established passenger traffic between Geelong
and Melbourne, running in the heyday of the
trade both the Devonshire and the brig
Laurina. Later he plied to the Speck, and
in IS4O piloted into Corio Bay the first
cargo of Tasmanian wool, consigned to
Strachan and Co. From that beginning
grew the Geelong wool-market, not the least
in the world, by a Geelong chalk. He is 97
now.
Andrew Fisher, who, as is not generally
known, is High Commissioner for the Com-
monwealth in England, is credited by a
London paper witli having given up all
alcoholic drinks the moment the war broke
out. “feeling that the Empire rightlv de-
manded this sacrifice.” There are a ’lot of
patriots making similar sacrifice of what
they never had and didn’t want.
The queerest happening that the Maori-
land coast has known befel Captain William
Coleman. He was trading between Nelson
and VN anganui, and during a rough passage
*i e ) sot aboard and slacked the cargo
ot lime. In the ensuing proceedings the
sides of the vessel were pushed out and she
toundered, all hands being saved. Coleman
died the other day at Wanganui. He was 82.
In the next generation Victoria will be
able to find a Railway Commissioner wiio
was born on the job. When the Murray
flood reached Strathmerton the other day
most of the inhabitants got into the railway
goods-shed, which stands higher than the
township, and a little Australian was born
there while they waited.
Word comes that Brian McGee, long posted
as missing, was killed in action in France
April. Before he joined the A.1.F.,
McGee was an engineering expert for the
r ederal Pastoral Shearing Co., and was
known in pretty well every shearing-shed in
the mulga country. He went to France as
f . , vis mac hine-gunner with an infantry
battalion early this year, and was reported
missing a few weeks after his arrival at the
I ront. An elder brother, Will, has been
■with a trench-mortar battery in Flanders or
thereabouts since last vear. Both were old
boys of Holy Cross College, Ryde (N.S.W.).
Another family record to be proud of is
that of the Kerr boys, sons of J. 11. Kerr,
receiver and paymaster of the Vic. Treasury,
ihe second son. Captain Eric John, who
was serving in France as a medical officer,
s killed in action on October 6, aged 25.
Ihe third son, Lieut. A. J., met his death
on the A\ est Front 15 months ago. The
eldest and youngest are still in action,
these are Captain Frank Kerr, D. 5.0.. of
the R.A.M.C., a Victorian Rhodes scholar,
and Private Keith Kerr. Frank w T on his
award in 1916 for attending to casualties
under fire; he was wounded in that strafe,
being shot by a sniper while bandaging an
officer in No Man’s Land. He has had two
mentions ’ and a recommendation for the
'A- A champion ped. at the University,
he holds the five-mile cross-country cham-
pionship of Vic.
IN HOSPITAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is thirty moons since I slung me hook
From the job at the hay and corn,
Took me solemn oath, ’n’ I straight forsook
All the ways of life, dinkum ways ’n’ crook,
’N’ the things on which it was good to look
Since the day when a bloke was born.
I was give a gun, ’n’ a bay’net bright,
N’ a ’ell of a swag iv work,
’N’ I dipped my lid to the big pub light,
To me ole push cobbers I give “Good-night!”
Slipped a kiss to ’er, ’n’ I wings me flight
For a date with the demon Turk.
Ez we pricked our heel to the skitin’ drum,
Square ’n’ all, I was gone a mile.
With a perky air, ’n’ a ’eart ez glum
Ez a long-dead cod, I was blind ’n’ dumb,
Holdin’ down the tear that was bound to come
At a word or a friendly smile.
Now I’ve seen it all, I may come out dead,
But I ’ope never more a fool.
I have scorched, ’n’ thirsted, ’n’ froze, ’n’ bled,
’N’ bin taught the use of the human head,
For when all is done ’n’ when all is said,
War’s a wonderful sort of school.
I’ve bin taught to get ’em ’n’ never fret,
’N’ to sleep without dreamin’ when ;
We have swarmed a slope with the red rain wet;
I ’ave learned a pile, ’n’ I’m learnin’ yet;
But the thing I’ve learned that I won’t forr
Is a way of not judgin’ men.
We was shot down there in a dirty place—
From the mansions ’n’ huts we’d come—
’N’ of all the welter the 'ardest case
Was a little swine with a dimpled face,
Who a year ago was dispensin’ lace
In a Carlton em-por-ee-um.
In the moochin’ days of me giddy youth,
When I kidded meself a treat,
I’d have passed him one ez a gooey. ’Strewth,
On the track iv Huns he’s a eight-day sleuth,
’N’ at tearin’ into ’em nail V tooth
He’s got Julius Csesar beat 1
I ain’t proud with him ; ’n’ I’m modest, too,
When dividin’ a can of swill
With a Algy boy from the wilds iv Kew,
Cos I do not know what the cow will do
When a Fritzy offers to sock me through ;
’N’ it’s good to be livin’ still.
There you are, you see! Oh !it makes you sore,
When a bloke you despised at ’ome
In them pifflin’ days of the years before
Takes a odds-on charnce with the God of War,
’N’ he tows you out with his left lung tore,
’N’ a crack in his bleedin’ dome!
Twas a lad called Hugh done ez much for me.
(He has curls ’n’ he’s fair ’n’ slim.)
IV ell, I mind the day's in the Port when we
Puts it over Hugh coz we don’t agree
With his tone ’n’ style, ’n’ my' foot was free
When the push made a hack of him.
NO CHANGE.
How you can dress like you do during war-
time beats me.”
"H’m —how about yourself?”
•Now he’s paid me back. I had struck a snag,
And must creep through the battle spume
All a flamin’ age, with a grinnin’ jag
In me thigh, for water, or jest a fag.
Like a crippled snake I was forced to drag
Shattered flesh till the crack of doom.
When they saw me he was the one who came,
’N’ he give me a raffish grin
’N’ a swig. I wasn’t so bad that shame
Didn’t get me then, for the lad was lame.
They had pa-red him his, but his ’eart was game,
’N’ he coughed ez he brought me in.
I have tackled God on me bended knees,
So He'll save him alive ’n’ whole,
For the sake of one who he thinks he sees
When the Nurse’s hands bring a kind of ease ;
And I thank God, too, for the things like these
That have give me a sort of soul.
There are Percies, Algies, ’n’ Claudes I’ve met
Who could take it ’n’ come agen,
While the bullets flew in a screamin’ jet.
What in pain, ’n’ death, and in mire ’n’ sweat
I ave learned from them that I won't forget
Is a way of not judgin’ men.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


• ;' v v
Wt
..y'.yyji
R
///
ft
.
.
is
Hi
m
--
%
m
V
iilli
>:W;>Vx
kjy&si
S#Wm•:s:
is
. S ’•: •• Wl .
p*
pM§
m
mm s
-
;;>X;X; glj
i ■„ 'V*^
" iH till " i j r^>,. [ .
Ip v- imnpi ini
*1
ryYJ
Jr
'< *■' l'■>
saws
US
MS
5 -■
:>m:
r! !!*!!
;S*SSS
sggSSSHSSg^gal
'
3
wm&m
MSSStffISSS
<: .•:»
*S^S§£S§
SSISSSSSSISS
I P >
PATON 8401
The Men
of other
Nations
envy him
his smoke
CUT (FLAKE or MIXTURE)
Also in Plug Form
TOBACCO
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL SMOKE
LMN
PIPES
400
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
„ er y P'P e Gua^ n , ee<l


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Buildine
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal* Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slagrs, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
“ADAMAX” ROOFING.
It costs one-third the price of iron, and will not rust or pinhole. It is
easier and cheaper to transport, resists acids and gases. One, Two and
rmee Fly. Samples, prices and Free Booklet on request
13
SjJJ
WILLIAM ADAMS &. CO. LTD
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ the STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
2nd R lal \ e S Fe f tur ® of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore Crusher
°r rea er I arts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper Shoes and Dies.
Tru'k Wh a i S * a PP ets > Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres. Toughened Steel
C ee s ‘ We can supply any quality hitherto imported.
ALL STAGES of MAM UFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Address: “ELECTRIC STEEL.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Sept., 1909. .£17,974 7 p.c. = £10,500 £7,474 £127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 „ „ 10,500 8,049 135.119
Sept., 1910.. 18,8.44 7 ~ „ 10,500 8,344 143,463
Mar., 1911.. 20,529 7 ~ „ 10,500 10,029 153,492
Sept., 1911.. 20,180 7 ~ „ 10,500 9,680 163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 „ „ 12,000 10,771 173,943
Sept., 1912.. 22,464 8 ~ „ 12,000 10,464 184,407
Mar., 1913.. 23,052 8 „ ~ 12,000 11,052 195 459
Sept., 1913.. 22,637 8 „ ~ 12,000 10,637 206^096
Mar., 1914.. 23,069 8 ~ ~ 12,000 11,069 217,165
Reserves disclosed .. 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914.. 20,180 8 p.c. = 12,000 8,180 240,345
Mar., 1915.. 19,316 8 „ „ 12,000 7,316 247,661
Sept., 1915.. 17,255 8 „ „ 12,000 5,255 252,916
Mar., 1916.. 19,485 8 „ ~ 12,000 7,485 260,401
Sept., 1916.. 19,590 8 „ „ 12,000 7,590 267,991
Mar., 1917.. 22,164 8 „ „ 12,000 10,164 278,155
Sept., 1917.. 22,307 8 „ „ 12,000 10,307 288,462
Banking figures are in these days liable to
be very deceptive ; and so are banking pro-
fits. Do you remember the beautiful dividends
that were made by land banks and other
chimeras during the late ’Bo’s and very eaidy
’9o’s? This writer was once on a Darling
River sandhill, with a few pubs and other
premises sprawled over it, when in rolled a
mulga citizen with a shin-plaster worth
£3OO. He had, he explained, got ■
well tired of everything, and had mortgaged
his plant and team and was going to shake
things up. He shook ’em up all right. The
little township hummed. The pub at which
he put up was so excited about it that it
gave the local carpenter a job doing long-
overdue repairs, and the carpenter paid the
saddler an account also long-overdue, and the
saddler, being the friend of everybody, paid
for a dance in the local hall, and the two
local storekeepers sold nearly £4O worth of
pumps and gewgaws, mostly on tick. After
a fortnight a bullocky jogged out of the
township with a sore head and a bad mouth
to show for his £3OO, and set-to to work off
his dead horse. He had simply played up
his earnings of the next 12 or IS months ;
but if you had examined the tradesmen’s
accounts at the little bank by the river you
would never have guessed that there hadn’t
been a real accession of wealth to the coun-
try. So it is now. We mortgage our future
earnings, and what we get for them we bank,
and then proceed to play up the proceeds of
the cheques as the Government draws them ;
and private accounts are inflated. But behind
all that and the paper profits which are
made out of the paper wealth is a gibbering
skeleton with a slave-driver’s whip getting
ready to flog us to the toil of shifting the
dead horse.
See what has happened in this case during
three years of devastating war :
Liabilities.
1914. 1916. 1917.
Notes in circulation. . £1,014 £BBO £873
Bills in circulation, etc. 241,496 161,519 332.285
Deposits at interest.. 1,414,121 1,544,041 1,544,737
Free deposits. . . . 845,781 972,482 1,234,360
Assets.
Liquid assets. . .. 1,288,004 943,661 1,692,520
Advances . . . . 1,704,154 2,231,438 1,942,247
Premises, etc.. . .. 62,600 83,815 77,950
Liquid assets thus show an increase of
£404,516 —say, 33 p.c. in the three years.
But look harder and see what those new
liquid assets are—£233,ooo of “coin, bullion,
Australian notes and cash at bankers” ; and
you can guess how much of it is Australian
notes. Then “Government, municipal and
other public stocks, debentures and funds,”
£442,000. So, though liquid assets of all
sorts have increased by £404,000, liquid
assets of these two sorts (that is to say,
liquid assets which consist of the public’s
promise to pay at a future date) have in-
creased by no less than £675,000. Which
means that all other kinds of liquid assets
have actually shrunk in the period. Now
and then bricks have been thrown at the
banks for not subscribing more to the War
Loans. In particular, the man who is crying
out for the Conscription of Wealth, what-
ever that may be, has been very furious. But
these figures suggest very seriously that
banks have done quite enough, and probably
too much, in locking up their money. For it
must be remembered that, while this bank’s
liquid assets, apart from War Loans, etc.,
and Australian notes, etc., have diminished
by £271.000, deposits at call have increased
by £389,000!
The Bulletin doesn’t suggest that Aus-
tralian banking figures haven’t been affected
bv anything but the heavy borrowing for
war and other purposes. There have been
sales of wool, meat, metals, etc., at war
prices to Britain and the Allies. And the
market that will follow peace will largely
govern the job of shifting our dead horse. Go
back for a minute to the contractor who had
got tired of everything, and it will be seen
that if, on account of an affluent season, he
can get extra-good prices for wool-carting
and dam-sinking he will probably have the
dead horse worked off inside nine months.
We shall have some of our moke on our
premises for many years; but whether the
job ahead of us will be very heavy or com-
paratively light will depend upon (1) the
sort of seasons we have, (2) what prices we
get for our products, and (3) the way we
move up into the collar.
* * * *
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney : —•
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ V £
Mar., 1912. .124,403 10 50,000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO. . 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10 p.c.= 55,000 40,303 380,186
Assets written up, £295,195 .. 675,381
Transferred to Capital, £550,000. . 125,381
, * \
Ord. Pref.
(10p.c.l (6p.c.)
Mar., 1913. .140,931 55,000 16,500 69,431 194,812
(8 p.c.)
Sept., 1913.. 80,613 55,000 22,000 3,613 198,425
(10 p e.)
Mar., 1914. .169,062 55,000 27,500 86,562 284,987
Transferred to Capital, £ 137,500 .. 147,487
Sept., 1914.. 99,901 61,875 27,500 10,526 158,013
Mar., 1915. .172,773 61,875 27,500 83,398 241,411
Sept., 1915.. 82,022 61,875 27,500 234,058
9 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1916.. 99,771 55,687 19,250 24,834 258,892
Sept., 1916.. 60,151 55,687 19,250 244,106
6 p.c.
Mar., 1917.. 68,685 55,687 16,500 240,604
Written off Extensions Reserve, £70,000. . 170,604
Sept., 1917.. 69,968 55,687 16,500 168,385
Evaporation is less in the March-September
half, and profits consequently are not so good.
Taking that into account, there seems to be
a distinct improvement in the last half-
year’s figures—nearly £lO,OOO better profit
than for the same section of 1916. But it
was special appropriations to provide for
“additional taxation” which last year
brought the figures down. Profit and Loss
account yields the following much less com-
forting comparisons
Profits on Management, Balance
Brewings, Wages, of
Sept., etc. Excise, etc. Profit.
1912. . £233,070 £132,768 £100,302
1913.. 268,548 172,935 95,613
1914.. 293,003 186,101 106,902
1915.. 270,499 174,478 96,021
1916.. 272,370 184,219 88,151
1917.. 254,131 167,663 86,468
From that £86,468, in order to arrive at the
£69,968 of the table, you deduct £12,500 for
depreciation of plant not otherwise provided
for, £2OOO voted to the Employees’ Benefit
Fund (which then stands at £31,000) and
£2OOO provided for a Workmen’s Compen-
sation Fund—which apparently means that
the co. is carrying its own risks, or part of
them. We slnill have to do a lot more of
that sort of thing. Organisation, which we
hear so much about these times, means little
more than the elimination of waste; and the
producer wastes vast sums in allowing the
non-producer to make profits out of him in
doing things for him that he could very well
do for himself. Incidentally, this is one of the
influences causing that curse of centralisa-
tion which we suffer from. The city is
crawling with people who are doing things
which the country could do for itself.
In the days before the war Tooth’s had a
truly glorious time. While other manufac-
turers lamented that wages had increased
out of all proportion to the labor performed,
Tooth’s pocketed some of the extra earnings
and made in profit that way an amount far
larger than its own extra wages bill. To do
it justice, it didn’t make a hypocrite of itself
and weep every six months that Justice
Hey don and Judge Edmunds were awarding
the workingman extra money to spend at the
pub. The harder the State borrowed the
easier it was to get wage increases, and the
larger Tooth’s earnings grew. In five years
from September. 1910, to September. 1915,
the co. made a net profit of £1,170.000,
though its capital at the start of the period
was only £1,000,000. and it didn’t call up
any capital afterwards. It was an astonish-
ing performance—very pleasant indeed for
shareholders to look back upon, but not so
agreeable to students of economics. Fortu-
nately the co. has some wise old birds
perched upon its Board, and they did two
commendable things: (1) Instead of dividing
everything, they put their house in order
and (2) they capitalised some of the undi-
vided profits so that the rate of future divi-
dends might not provoke hostilities. The
lesult of the first line of policy is shown in
this comparison :
r • viv 1907. 1916. 1917
H abilities •• •• £17,478 £67,298 £81,061
Breweries, etc. . . 613,433 1,496,400 1 4SO 495
Book debts .. 210,626 244,468 ’234’546
Stock .. 100,780 266,104 273’055
Liquid .. .. 243,372 ' 194,869 137,’606
Ten years ago the net assets were valued in
the books at £1,150,732. To-day they are
valued at £2,044,572. A little of that in-
crease has been due to the writing up of
assets. The first table shows that £295,195
was written on in 1912. But, as against
that, £70,000 which has been saved up for
extensions has just been written off; and
there is no doubt whatever that large sums
have been consistently put into plant re-
placements which have added something to
the value of the assets. And other large
sums have been written off pub properties.
This paper finds it much easier to hire
accountants than prophets. It therefore
doesn’t know the future of Tooth’s as
well as it knows the past. That these two
—the past and the future —are going to be
quite the same is extremely doubtful. Early
closing has come to stay. If any change
occurs it will be in the direction of further
curtailment. And in the hard (or, anyway,
harder) times coming we shall not shout so
often for all hands. It seems highly proba-
ble that the 9 p.c. ordinary div. will be re-
duced- —it has not been earned in the last 18
months, and the present level of profits is
not likely to be the lowest. But thereafter
there will be a steady improvement, follow-
ing the growth of population and the return
of prosperity; and that very uncertainty in
which the trade always lives and possibly
always will live will ward off competition.
The Dunlop Rubber Co. (Melbourne) :
, Writ-
Pref. Def. Ord. Total ten Nominal
July, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. Off. Reserves.
1905. . £17,578 7 74 5 £13,200 £3,712 £9,839
1906.. 26,131 7 74 5 16,780 4,445 14,245
1907.. 35,301 7 74 54 18,210 11,056 20,280
1908.. 44,940 9 94 9 25,120 7,500 32,600
1909.. 50,183 124 13 9 31,700 4,500 46,583
1910.. 53,596 124 13 9 31,700 6,601 61,878
No accounts issued for 1911. Surplus pro l
fits of that year plus amount by which
assets were written up, £110,622. . . . 172,500
Co. reconstructed ; reserves capitalised.
, —Dividends—
Pref. Def. Ord. Total To Re- Nominal
July, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. serves. Reserves.
1912. . £66,768 10 910 £49,637 £17,131 £17,131
Premium on new shares. . . . 60 17,191
1913.. 72,891 10 910 51,100 21,791 38,982
1914.. 77,003 10 910 51,100 25,903 64,885
1915.. 95,601 124 9 10 56,100 39,501 104,386
Co. reconstructed. Other reserves dis-
closed, £130,614 ... .. .. 235,000
Shares in new co. issued otherwise than
for cash, £235,000 .. . . ..
4-year to To Re- Nominal
July, Profit. Div. on All Shares, serves. Reserves.
1916. . £38,063 10 p.c. = £36,197 £1,866 £1,866
Premium on new shares, £721 .. 2.587
Year ending
July,
1917.. 105,865 10 p.c. = 87,679 18,186 20,773
It lias been a fine year for the co.; for
though the coal strike of 1910 shut down the
co.’s mill and disturbed operations for pretty
well three months, the thing that produced
the coal strike also gave the co. an advan-
tage in Australia which it didn’t possess
prior to the war. Foreign tubes and covers
are still coming into the Australian motor
market, bpt at a price which gives the home-
made article a chance. And there are a
million or so other rubber goods which we
begin to find we can make for ourselves
quite as well as anybody can make for us.
In 1900, at the end of the first year of the
co.’s trading in Australia, plant, with furni-
ture, etc., thrown in, was valued at £2500.
Gross profit on manufacturing account that
year was £41,286. What was spent in wages
we don’t know, but trading exes., including
salaries, travelling exes., ads., rents, etc., ran
to £22,732. Ten years later the gross manu-
facturing profit was £129,682—but let’s make
a table of it all:
x x 1900. 1910. 1917.
Plant, etc. .. . .£2,500 £44,285 £172,492
Gross manufacturing profit 41,286 129,682 271 585
General exes 22,732 76,086 155A19
That’s the difference between Australian in-
dustry and somebody else’s industry. And
only a glimpse at the difference, too. For in-
stance, in addition to the share capital in
this business, there is now room for nearly
£300,000 of deposit and other investments,
represented on the assets side partly by pre-
mises, etc., but largely by stocks (£626,412)
and sundry debtors (£154,733). What will
happen when “the freedom of the seas” is
restored and almost every country in the
world joins in the fight for everybody else’s
trade, this paper doesn’t profess to' know.
Hughes’s weird idea apparently is that,
while leaving the Australian market open to
every foreigner who likes to peck at it, Dun-
lops and Perdriaus and Barnet Glass should
form a committee, and that upon this com-
mittee the Government should unload a Com-
missioner who would go abroad and try to
sell Australian rubber-goods in N’York and
Paris and London. If somebody with saner
ideas gets hold of Australia he will, instead
do permanently what Potsdam Bill has done
temporarily—he will give Protection to the
Australian manufacturer within Australia.
The co. now has a capital of £897.320 made
r'ooA^i’ 0 , 00 Is ;t £90,000 2nd prefs.,
£—>o,ooo 3rd prefs., £3(1,320 ordinaries. The
Ist prefs. carry 7 p.c. cumulative; the
seconds are 9 per cents.; the thirds 10 per
cents. After these preferences have been
oaid the ordinaries get 7 p.c. The next divi-
sion must be 3 p.c. to Ist prefs., 1 D c
seconds, and 1 p.c. to ordinaries. After
all the prefs having had 10 p.c. the ord ’
nanes get whatever else is distributed
past year s profit was almost exactly equal
to 15 p.c. on the ordinary capital after pa?
mg' the prefs. the 10 p.c. which is their
mum ; and that was after dropping fin (inn
into a taxation reserve, which amountt n °
to £40,000, This reserve m f y ”™e“n
handy presently. And, anyhow, to make the
provision seems the right thing to do W
are. reaping a harvest after paying for 111
seed with anti an.v san'e luAi “
would put by out of the proceeds 0 f the
harvest enough to meet his notes.
The United Insurance Co. (fire, marine
and accident), of Sydney lne
~ _ . Written To Re- R P
Sept., f Off. serves, serves.
1905.'. 21,603 12ip.c.= 9,673 4712 7 218 138^7
1906.. 20,032 124 „ „ 10,675 _ 9 357 uI’SS!
1907.. 16,855 124 „„ 10,675 - 6 180 lSilo!
1908.. 13,531 124 „ 10,675 2 84fii-7«2
1909.. 11,353 124 10 675 113 HI
1910.. 15,250 124 „ „ 10,675 - 4 575 '
1911.. 24,650 124 „ „ 10,675 13 975 !
1912.. 24,020 124 „ „ 10,675 _ S’sm
£ 20,000 reserves transferred to capital Kiq’sin
1913.. 31,062 10 p.c.= 12,000 - 19 062 88 8 9
1914.. 30,302 10 „ „ 12,000 - 18 302 207 174
1915.. 36,612 10 „ „ 12,000 - 24 612 231 78fi
Transferred to capital, £ 20,000 1
1916.. 37,619 10 p.<*L 34,000 23,ei 9 235’m
1917.. 43,662 10 „ „ 14,000 - 291562 2655?
Fifty-five this year; and it ought to have
done better. But it was very diffident- it
wasn’t a bit disposed to appeal for Aus-
tralian business on the plain ground that
being Australian itself, it was best entitled
to anything that was going. However, a
few years ago, when one or two more vigor-
ous Australasian offices had pushed on
ahead, the United developed more punch-
and, though there are still a hundred and one
things that it won’t do to get business (and
on the whole, is the better for it), it has
added to its premium income in the past
seven years as much as it had accumulated
in its first 45 years :
P re- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate Rate
1895. . £58,499 £32,855 £19,580 56.2 p.c 33 5n c
1900.. 70,779 38,589 25,296 54.5 30‘7
1905.. 88,609 42,250 35,832 47.7 „ 40A ”
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49 2 440 ”
1914.. 170,819 77,427 74,370 45.3 ’ 435 ”
1915.. 188,287 88,220 77,029 46.8 394 ”
1916.. 203,942 94,259 87,055 46 2 42V ”
1917.. 209,004 91,664 91,512 43,9 „ ”
If it is not fair to compare the growth of
business during the last three years with
that of pre-war days, we can still go back to
1014 and show that the business had grown
in the previous 10 years as much as it had
done in all the 42 years at the back of that.
Really, however, there hasn’t been anything
very exceptional about the increased figures
of the past three years. War rates have no
doubt added a few thousands to the revenue;
yet the average annual increase in premiums
since the war started has been no more than
£13,000, and for the preceding 10 years it
was as much as £lO,OOO. And certainly
some of the new business of late has fol-
lowed, not from war risks, but on the amend-
ment ofi the workmen’s compensation law in
Vic. and N. S. Wales. The conclusion of all
of which is that there is no reason to expect
a sudden and serious shrinkage of premium
income when the U-boats cease from
troubling.
In a year of exceptionally heavy losses in
some quarters the co. has had an uncommonly
good experience. Only oiice in this decade,
at any rate, has the loss rate been less than
the past year’s 43.0 p.c. But in comparing
loss rates one year with another it has to be
remembered that the field of insurance is
changing a good deal. During the last few
years accident insurance of one kind and
another has greatly increased; and, no doubt,
because of the heavy agricultural losses
through hailstorm last year in N. S. Wales,
that branch will get a fillip notwithstanding
that rates have been more than doubled. So
in the altered field of insurance 43.9 p.c.
may be a normal loss rate now, though it is
less than the average of the past. The
Bulletin doesn’t know whether it is or
not. Neither does anybody else. There is
simply a chance of it.
In any case the profit shows so wide a
margin beyond the dividend that sharehold-
ers are entitled to feel very comfortable.
And all the more comfortable because of the
way capital and reserves are invested. Look
at this comparison :
1907. 1917.
Capital and Reserves .. £239,895 £412,067
Liquid assets (net) . . 170,895 276,310
Freeholds . . . . 56,000 103,692
Mortgages . . . . 13,000 32,065
So liquid assets have grown £105,415 in the
10 years; £47,002 has been put into free-
holds (plus anything that has been written
off) and £19,005 into mortgages; and all of
it has come out of undivided profit, except
less than £15,000. Combine the capital and
reserves after paying the half-year’s dividend
and you get £405.067. Add the premium in-
come less exes, for a year, say, £118,000;


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mig. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even the highest speeds.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be. skidded.^
Prevents motor “ flashing over.
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain oft. the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia :
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Work*— Traf ford Park, Manchester. England.
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars.— Advt.
* ■ * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan. Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards. Ardlethan Mines. gTaziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams. etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferrie and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Win. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane. Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for miiling.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Have you clearly understood that Pioneer Wood
Pipe can not only save you money, but can also save
you a lot of worry and annoyance with rusting and
corroding pipes? Its durability is beyond question.
Water preserves the wood. Send for illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.
(head office), Burns Bay Road, Longueville. Con-
tractors to all Slate Governments. Factories: Burns
Bay Road, I.ane Cove, N.S.W. Footscray, Victoria;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address. 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 353 Flinders Lane, Melb. — Advt.
« * » *
Arthur Leplastrier S: Co. —Machinery. Head office:
Sydney. In spite of war and submarines we can supply
immediately: “Robey's” famous Steam Portable
Engines, 8, 14 and 16 nominal h.p.; “National”
world-renowned Oil and Petrol Engines from lj to 7
brake h.p. ; “National” Suction Gas Engines. 18 and
46 brake h.p.; “National” Suction Gas Plant for
about 100 brake h.p. engine; “National” Town's Gas
Engines, 44 to 26 brake h.p.— Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water int« 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
, Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crueibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
sAftl&OftNTO
Insure in
Th ' 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital . .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
AGENTS WANTED.
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Getatme Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
total JE523.0G7. This means that during the
current year the co. will have the means,
three-fourths of it liquid, to meet losses ap-
proximately equal to the total losses of the
past seven years. That shows a position of
crreat strength. The interest earnings alone
last year were £17.835. A 10 p.e. div. —and
it is' not advisable to pay a higher rate —
requires only £14.000. In the circumstances,
then, the time is ripe to pay up another
£20.000 or more. It could he made £40.000
(£1 per share) without discomfort.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10: —
Profit. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Mir ’O7 £61.945 £55.000 Sept., ’l2 £36.049 £lO,OOO
Seat’’o7 65.756 50,000 M; ir„ 'l3 £16.861 £20.000
ufr >OS 1* 256 30 000 SeP*- 13 37 - 4 SI -0.000
22,050 3 *» sow
Mar -> ;00 39 > 2 * 4 on ion Se P 4 -> ’ l4 4 (392 12,500
Sept., 09 25,544 -0.000 Mar - 15 16 546 Nn
Mar *’ ~n T-'nnn 4 ' ' l5 9 - 592 Nil
Sept., 10 1a.243 10.000 Mar., ’l6 4 107 Nil
Mar.,’ll 25.991 10,000 ’
Sept.,’ll 11,479 10,000 -16 13.554 5.000
Loss. Mar., ’l7 21.137 10.000
Mar., ’l2 8,851 10.000 Sept., 'l7 25.613 10,000
This is the best profit for four years and
nearly the best for eight, notwithstanding
that the Broken Hill miners knocked off
work on August IS and remained idle till
the end of the half-year. Heaven only
knows what they did it for. It couldn't
possibly help the Sydney-side railway and
tramway men : it only added to their diffi-
culties and made it more impossible for them
to win. Apparently at the back of their heads
was an idea that they were penalising the
bosses. But even that is every doubtful,
because the export of concentrates is out of
the question, and the Associated Smelters
at Port Pirie were chock-a-block with stuff.
It is much more likely, therefore, that these
worst-led men in Australia simply played
into the cos.’ hands, and gave the smelters
a chance to overtake supplies. This view
is supported by the fact that, the men having
closed down the mines, the cos. have not
rushed to re-open some of them. This
property, for instance, only resumed produc-
tion about a week ago.
Block 10 lies between the B. H. Prop, to
the north and the Sulphide Corporation's
Central mine to the south, and the bottom
of the lode is at a shallower depth the
farther north you go—until you get on to
the other flap of the saddle. The apex is
about the middle of the B. H. Prop. Conse-
quently, after 30 years of working, there isn't
much left in Block 10 but odds and ends. No
estimate of reserves is of much value here
any more than in Block 14. the corresponding
mine on the north side of the B. H. Prop.
There are, however, enough sulphides in these
two mines to justify the erection of a flota-
tion plant. It is going up on Block 10,
and both lead and zinc sections will, all
going well, be bubbling away early next
year. Block 14 will supply 1000 tons a
week. Meanwhile Block 10 has been pok-
ing about in the Sulphide end of the mine,
where most ore might reasonably be expected
to be; but though there are fair-sized bodies
there the stuff is, on the whole, very poor.
Compare the average assays of the stuff ex-
plored during the past half-year with the
ore fed to the mill during the period: —
Silver, oz. Lead p.c. Zinc p.c.
Mill feed .. 10.3 12.5 13.1
1465 ft. level .. 7.7 9.8 10.3
715 ft. „ .. 2.7 6.6 7.1
Ditto .. 3.6 8.6 7.7
515 ft 3.8 13.3 7.4
415 ft 2.2 12.1 8.2
That doesn’t look very promising.
For years past, knowing that the end was
approaching, the co., having a solid cash
balance, has been looking for another mine,
but it could find nothing with much, promise
in it till it got hold of the Misima, off
Papua. For £11,200 spent on the mine
while under option, and £30,000 put to the
working account of the new co., it got 69,606
shares out of 150.000; and general-manager
Ward started production there in May. The
directors’ only remark about the operations
is that “the latest returns show profitable
results”—which isn’t exactly enthusiastic.
Apart from the interest in Misima the co.
has £63.000 in excess of liabilities, mostly
concentrates, cash and public securities, but
including also £12.839 of stores.
Block 14 continued last half-year to poke
around picking out overlooked fragments or
carbonate ore until the Broken Hill miners
decided that it would help the Randwick
railway workshop men to resist the time-
cards if they took a spell, too. The re ® u ’t
was a further reduction in the output, which
has been dwindling this way :
Mar., ’l4 . . 6513 tons. Mar., ’l6 . . 2875 tons.
Sept., ’l4 . . 5062 „ Sept., ’l6 . . 4335 „
Mar., ’l5 . . 4608 „ Mar., ’l7 . . 3189 „
Sept., ’l5 . . 4339 „ Sept., ’l7 . . 2933 ~
The co. had hoped that by this time the
flotation plant on Block 10 would be ready
to handle its sulphides on joint account;
but there have been the usual war-time
delays. However, Block 10 hopes to get the
plant working early next year: and mean-
rime Junction North has agreed to take 200
or 300 tons of Block 14 sulphides weekly.
How much sulphide there is in the mine can't
be said for certain: but Block 10 expects
to take 1000 tons a week, and if the market
stands up the deliveries will prooably still
be made in five years' time. Shortly the eo.
should be getting a bit of help from the King
Island scheelite mine, in which it holds
42.000 shares out of 100.000 issued. Produc-
tion there commenced on July 27, and anti-
cipations have, for once, been fully realised:
To 30th Sept. 21 OS tons of an average value of
03s. lOd. per ton were milled, producing 29 tons
14ewt. concentrates, assaying 65.3 p.c. wolfram,
equal to a value recovered of 465. £d. per ton crude
ore, or 73.1 p.c. of the metal contents. With the
limited amount of development work done the re-
serves are conservatively estimated at 78,500 tons,
averaging 1.1 p.c. wolfram.
No word, however, about costs.
Block 14's profit, after writing off depre-
ciation, was £1340 in the six months. In-
terest on investments was £1204 ; also there
was a small refund from the Barrier Muni-
tions Co., so there was practically no profit
from the mine As the 10 p.c. on pref.
shares took £l5OO and the sixpenny div. on
all shares another £5OOO. the liquid assets
were further drawn upon. Including the'
£12.500 represented by the Scheelite shares,
these assets, after providing for liabilities,
now amount to £50.8(21.
* * * ' -s
The Hawkins Hill Reward continues to
be the only show on Hill End (N.S.W.) to
do anything worth mentioning. East month
yielded 2300 z., which will help to keep up
the average of £lO,OOO a year produced dur-
ing the past three years. Dividends have
been scarce, all the same, nothing having
been seen since June. 1015, when 3d. was
handed out.
* * * *
Mammoth Molybdenite (N.S.w.) is hurry-
ing its new treatment plant. Big bundles
of the machinery are now being landed at
Bathurst by rail and horse-drawn to the
works. The other shows are waiting to see
how far the recent return agrees with the
general body of stuff.
* * * *
Last month Boulder No. 1 took an option
over a new find at Nevoria, South Yingarn
(W.A.), and since then its shares have
jumped from 4d. to something over Is. The
purchase price of the show is stated to be
£lO,OOO. but even if only half the price were
asked, the co. would still have to raise the
wind to complete the deal and carry on. It
should, however, have no difficulty in doing
this, as the Boulder has promised its help
if required.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) intends to
go into voluntary liquidation. For a long
time past its once great Kalgoorlie mine
has been run at a loss, and latterly, owing
to further increase in costs, the position has
gone from bad to worse. Some months ago
the co. decided to reduce the tonnage treated
to a little more than one-half and draw on
the higher-grade stopes for mill supplies. But
as the mine is worked on the shrinkage sys-
tem it was finally found impossible to regu-
late the grade of ore treated from month
to month. For the time being an attempt
is to be made to work the show on a still
smaller tonnage basis, and by drawing upon
the best grade of ore endeavor to make ends
meet. Which is just another way of saying
that all that is worth having is to be taken
out and the shutters then put up.
* * * *
Although Edna May Junction has done
660 ft. of sinking and 1550 ft. of develop-
ment work on its Westonia claim and
drawn blanks, it has not tired of the field.
The co. is investigating a lease which lies
directly east of the Edna Consolidated,
where it hopes to get rid of the greenstone
country and prove the extension of the
gneissic channel. Mick Williams gives the block
a chance, provided the extension of the gneiss
is proved beyond the Consolidated. To
find out about that will involve 150 ft. of
sinking or diamond-drilling and then stab-
bing into the unknown. This looks to be
a Juggins’s game, but the co. might do worse.
But why give 5000 paids for the privilege
of spending money on untested ground? The
Mines Department ought to stop any such
levy.
Six months’ battery work at Leonora
Blocks, Leonora (W.A.), resulted in 3741
tons being treated for £5558 of gold. This
runs out at 295. 81d. per ton. Costs were
335. Ioid., so a loss of about 4s. per
ton was made. Mining mopped up 14s. lid.:
milling 10s. and development 7s. <jd.
per ton. There is Ss. 3d. per ton in the
tails, but a 4s. 6d. extraction seems
to be the best that manager Joice ex-
pects. The margin of profit is very narrow.
Joice admits that reserves are limited, and
that development is needed to crush 1000
tons per month. He recommends shaft-sink-
ing and extending No. 2 level. That done,
he “feels sure that the mine will be in a
position to earn larger profits, with the
possibility of opening up payable ore bodies.’’
Associated Gold Mines (W.A.) during
last financial year had a revenue of £125.202,
including £597 from tributors, and net profit
amounted to £91*54. The future of its Ival-
goorlie show still hangs by a slender thread,
while its Canadian ventures do not seem to
be prospering as well as predicted. One,
the North Thompson gold-mine, has been
amalgamated with a neighbor possessing a
mill and “excellent prospects.” and the other,
the Keeley silver-mine, is declared to have
now a good chance of fulfilling expectations.
* * * *
Black Range Pinnacles (W.A.I resumed
crushing a week or two ago; but there is a
shortage of miner's, and there is also likely to
be a shortage of profitable ore before long.
* * * *
Commodore (W.A.) has decided to deepen
its shaft, hoping to pick up the continuation
of a good shoot said to be coming into its
ground from the adjoining Ingliston.
* • * * *
Gwalia Central (W.A..) is again blowing
about the prospects of its Leonora holding.
This time developments below water-level
are declared to be most satisfactory, and a
lot of high-grade ore is to be crushed shortly
at the State mill. The co. has whooped so
often in London about its prospective wealth
without shareholders getting anything that
nowadays the market is not at all interested.
* * * *
“Oof Bird” on Westralia’s minerals other
than gold :
Copper is widely distributed throughout the State,
and according to the State Mining-Engineer its pro-
duction will. surely increase in importance. At
Ravensthorpe a State-leased smelter reduces copper
ore to matte and a converter changes this to blister
copper, which is sent east to be refined. About 11
million sterling worth of copper has been exported
from the West to date.
Tin has been, and is still, raised in considerable
quantities at Greenbushes, and a good deal has come
from Pilbarra. Before the Commonwealth stepped
in and prohibited the export, black tin used to be
sent to X. S. Wales, Malay States and Europe. Now
it all goes to X. S. Wales. The value of the State’s
tin production so far is roughly £1,300,000.
Lead and coal come next in importance. Lead
ores are found in small quantities all over the West,
but by far the best field is the Xorthampton. LTp-
wards of 34,000 tons have been sent from this
centre; from two mines alone over 5000 tons of ore
are raised, crushed and concentrated monthly, and
the output is steadily increasing. Coal-mining is
confined to the Collie field, and somewhere about
3,735,691 tons, worth approximately £1,766,000,
have been hewn to date. Of the total output the
Government has taken about 64 p.c. Coal beds also
exist at Irwin, on the Midland line, and elsewhere,
but have not yet been worked.
Silver has a recorded output of £400,000. There
has hardly been an instance in Westralian mining
where silver has been the metal of principal import-
ance in the ore, but it is present in practically all
the gold won, and occurs in the lead ores of the
Xor’-West and in the copper ores of Phillips River.
Of the other minerals found in the State molyb-
denite is perhaps the most commercially important.
There has been little export to date, but what are
claimed to be promising deposits are being worked
at Warriedar, on the Yalgoo goldfield, and a few
parcels of crude ore have during the past few months
been sent east for concentration. Iron occurs in
rich deposits, and should some day prove one of the
country’s most valuable assets. Zinc is found in
considerable quantities in some of the lead mines at
Xorthampton, and mica has been discovered in
several localities; but difficulties of transport,
together with the want of skilled labor, has kept
capital at a distance. Deposits of antimony have
been worked at Pilbarra, but inaccessibility has
strangled their development. Graphite, for the pro-
duction of which the Government offers a bonus, has
been mined in many parts of the State, and what
are regarded as likely deposits are now being worked
at two places in the South-West. Diamonds have
been found in the conglomerate at Xullagine and
opals in other parts of the State, but no one has
yet been plucky enough to put up the money to mine
them.
London Stock Exchange has removed
Chaffers (W.A.) from its list and the
Financial Times has followed suit. For
some time past reports containing what that
paper describes as “a mass of meaningless
generalities” have been published in obscure
London financial weeklies about the co.’s
Leonora delusions, and by the aid of these
and other puffs a number of shares have
been peddled out to the public. Hav-
ing banished Chaffers, the Stock Exchange
is invited to put the boot into one or two
other Westralian concerns which are old
offenders at the game of “all in.”
“Pat” : In the Wild Cat criticism of the
salaries paid by the Union Bank (B.
25/10/T7) the average Union salary is
quoted as £l9B. A number of the Aus-
tralasian banks do not pay even this aver-
age. The Victoria pays its branch manager
on average about £250. and of its 90 account-
ants not more than about 10 would receive
£2OO or more. The average would be about
£l5O. The special war allowance paid by
this institution to its married officers varies
from £l6 downwards. The single men are
being better treated. Why? The Union is
to be congratulated upon the low average age
of its officers. The Victoria retains its
officers until they die at their posts. Twenty-
four of its present-day managers were in
charge of branches in ISSS, and goodness
knows for how long before that. Seven of
these men have not even had a transfer in
all that time.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Why do tin-mining cos. talk so
much about the price of the metal and
rarely state the average price received for
concentrates, which is the product they sell?
Returning charges vary, and just now the
cost of realising on a shipment of concen-
trates is unusually high. A statement of
the net return on concentrates is a heap
more informative than a quotation of the
market price of the metal.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page S 4-)


<SZt
is!
Cald*l^rcwHrt*|^ * ,4
HfERINGd
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. ISIS.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED FRANCE.
tu
e
are me Correcir
cbcprt
y
ession
Gc
£L S&fc
CD
UM
MINIATURE PICTURE CAMPAIGN
In aid of ST. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE.
500,000 Miniatures of Famous Pictures
for sale at 1/- each.
, P r J^ n Wren win Bu >' th e Winning Miniature
for £5OOO or £lOOO. 49 Others will be Bought
for Sums ranging from £l2O to £5
Campaign closes Nov. 30. Drawing on Dec 8
Apply THE SECRETARY, ST VTisrrFWT>«
HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE. VINCENTS
NO MORE INDIGESTION.
BENEFICIAL RESULTS ACHIEVED
BY BISURATED MAGNESIA.
Soon we may hear no more of indigestion,
dyspepsia, heartburn, flatulence, wind or
similar forms of digestive and stomach
tioubles, for really excellent results are
obtained from the use of a simple
antacid known as bisurated magnesia. Quite
a typical instance of the efficacy of this
pioduct is contained in a letter recently
sent us by Mr. W. ,T. Marktelow, of New-
stead, \\ aikato, Auckland, who says: “I
suttered with pains in my stomach for 20
years, and although I visited doctors both in
Aew Zealand and England I obtained no
lasting benefit until I tried bisurated mag-
nesia. That was about three years ago; and
although I am 63 years of age, bisurated
magnesia still keeps me well and I would
not be without it.” Similar cases are re-
ported almost daily, and it is now regarded
as certain that the old, unsatisfactory
methods of treatment, such as dieting and
drugging, will soon become obsolete, for
whereas drugs merely alleviate the symp-
toms, bisurated magnesia removes the cause
i 6 trouble. That is to say, it neutralises
the harmful acid in the stomach, stops the
food fermenting, dispels wind and soothes
and heals the inflamed stomach lining. To
accomplish these desirable results it is only
necessary to take half a teaspoonful of the
bisurated magnesia in a little water after
meals-—no alteration in diet need be made.
It is important though that sufferers should
ask the. chemist very distinctly for bisurated
magnesia, as, of course, the results men-
tioned could not be expected from ordinary
forms of magnesia, such as the acetates or
citrates. —Advt.
PAULINE et CIE
Announce that they are showing their
MODEL HATS AT SPECIAL PRICES.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers*
George Street, Sydney.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
Sauce
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia -
get a bottle.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, November 12, 11)17.
My Dear Arini, —
Premier Holman lunched with a big party
of journalists and politicians at Parmer’s on
Friday, and told what he had seen and heard
among the war clouds of Europe. It was
no secret to that crowd, at any rate, that
some of the same things, said previously, had
brought him into conflict with the Censor-
ship. Somehow the Blue Pencil seems bent
on pushing Holman and the press together.
Just before the last Conscription campaign
the newspapers, driven to desperation, had
to invite the help of the N. S. Wales politi-
cians. Led by Holman, they gave it gladly
—even to the extent of making a solemn
covenant not to appear on any platform in
support of Conscription till Hughes with-
drew the obnoxious instructions. Of course
the. instructions were withdrawn promptly.
This time Holman has rushed to Melbourne,
and in the name of the Ministry has pro-
tested against the application of the gag.
That the gag has helped the enemy, while pre-
tending to prevent help being given to him,
is a matter now beyond all question. What
the public begins to wonder is whether there
was only stupidity at the back of it.
. Mrs. Holman, who sat at Tom Heney’s
right elbow, looked well and hearty under
the brim of a large black hat. Holman, in
spite of all the talk, doesn't look half as
sprightly as a man should after a few
months’ voyaging.
There’s a flutter over the engagement of
an old .King’s School boy, Tom Roy Irons,
now Flight-Commander, R.F.C. Dad belongs
to our Clyde engineering works. The girl is
the Hon. Winifred Smith, daughter of Lord
Colwyn of C-olwyn Bay, Wales. Probably
Colwyn of Colwyn Bay is one of the more
recent “creations.” Aforetime there was a
fairly-new baronet. F. II. Smith, of Colwyn
Bay, an india-rubber and cotton manufac-
turer, and Enormously wealthy.
The late Richard Binnie, of Point Piper,
left £204.000. Surgeon MacCormick—the
conquering Alexander now at the Front—is
one of the guardians appointed to help the
widow and her brother-in-law. Charles
Binnie, with the children. The eldest girl
is only in the schoolbook days. There’s an
annuity of £40 a year to the testator’s
mother-in-law, Mrs. Amelia Tobv. formerly
of Tasmania. The handsome old'lady won’'t
have to try to make herself believe, with
Goldsmith’s parson, that she’s “passing rich”
on that. She’s independent of the legacy,
which is merely a token of regard.
The National Economy Exhibition will
open on Thursday, the 15th. This change
from the 14th has furrowed the faces of the
promoters. The Referendum is the trouble.
Prime Minister Hughes must have the Town
Ilall on Wednesday night. When this blow
fell Grace Burrows had to fly through the
city to let exhibitors know the worst.
Chief-Secretary Fuller opens the Economy
Fx. Mind your old bones, and look out for
the incubator chicks at the show.
Lady Helen will be here to give a push to
Our Day for the British Red Cross. You’ve
no chance of forgetting that November 30 is
the date.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan is in Svdnev. Or was
at the beginning of the week. She’s a will-
o -the-wisp, though, who fades away before
you know she’s unpacked her easel. The
little lady has been painting in Papuan
jungles, where butterflies grow as large as
pigeons.
Government House flag hung at half-mast
on Monday morning and the staff kept an ear
at the’phone to answer frantic inquiries: “Is
the King ?” But there was nothing the
matter. The flag had merely hanged itself.
There was no one on the premises accus-
tomed to shin greasy poles at picnic sports,
and the right artisan who could readjust a
cord on a pulley took time to find.
The sub-regal Goold-Adanrses, of Queens-
land. returning to Brisbane from the Cup.
called in at Camden Park and week-ended
with Miss Onslow.
Camera men are showing their wares at
an exhibition in the Education Galleries,
whose door swings wide till November 24.
In 1911 there was a Tenth International
Show in our old town, since when there has
been no other. The Photographic Society is
behind it all.
Captain Milne, D.S.O.. son of the late
Edmund of the Railway Service, has w’edded
the lady I mentioned, a former matron of
Bathurst Hospital. She was Myra Wyse,
one of the picked lot of Australian nurses to
leave for the Front in December, 1914. After
a bad bout of illness in Egypt she was in-
valided home with the first shipload of our
wounded. Back to work in time to see the
first Australian battalions land in France.
Strenuous days ever since. A cable the
other day announced the wedding in London.
A brother of the bride is Murray Wyse, of
the Pastoral Times, Deniliquin. They are
old hands in those parts.
A Mosman lass, Viva McKone, now in
London with mother, is getting her trous-
seau. The soldier w r ho waits is Lieut. F. J.
Wilkins, of the 4th Yorks and Lancs.
There’s a fond mother mourning Norman
Wilkes, her only unmarried son: her other
boy was married to May Moore a few years
ago. Norman, nephew and namesake of
Norman Lindsay, had had his dentist’s name-
plate up in one of the Eastern Suburbs for
10 years past. He wore two stars and the
M.C., which he won several times over in the
bitter attack with cold steel on Ilermies.
There’s a line from Hongkong about the
Freddy Shipmans and their “Fantastics.”
All flourishing. The “firm”—Freddie and
his “Honey”—were so popular on the trip
that their fellow-passengers handed them a
souvenir scroll-album. In Manila good
houses and enthusiasm. The co., after de-
lightful days in the Philippines, met a
typhoon accompanied by a tidal wave on
the voyage to Hongkong. As they had the
luck to be sleeping out on that side of the
ship not hit by the mountain of green sea,
nobody was drowned. But a very wet and
bruised vaudeville party sorted itself out
after the blow.
Nina Murdoch, presswoman, nice girl
and writer of graceful verse, will be married
in December. She is now wiping her press
nib. But the hob won’t use up all her time,
and Nina is looking forward to freedom to
polish up the sonnets she’ll think of under
her new name—Brown.
Charles Lloyd Jones, managing director
of David Jones, Ltd., has married a Maori-
land lady, and is now on his way back to
England via U.S.A. with his bride. The
new Mrs.. Jones met her fate while he was
held up. in M.L. on his voyage from the
other side to Australia. He came on to
Sydney for a brief stay, returned to the
Dominion, married the chosen one—and
that’s all I know about it. They’ll spend
some time in Britain while he looks after
that end of the firm’s interests.
The V.A.D. will lay “The Geisha” at your
feet in the Repertory on November 15"and
16. Part of the profits go to “Our Day.”
The V.A.’s training fund collects the rest.
Sydney’s brilliant
pianist Yvonne
Leverrier Charvin
died, after a few
months’ illness, , on
Saturday morning.
One of the most
charming of women,
to her personality
was due the mag-
nificent success of
her concert for the
French Red Cross in
3915 The French
residents felt a deli-
cacy about asking
Australians for help
in the early din of
the war. But buck-
ets of iced water
couldn’t chill the
temperament that united the fire of her
father’s country wnth the “Don’t care
a hang what they say!” of the Australian.
Over £1600 was cabled to France as the
result of this huge affair in our Town Hall.
With impetuous gallantry Captain Charvin
(of the Messageries Maritime) rushed on to
the platform that night to kiss his Yvonne’s
hand as she stood with a pyramid of flowers
at her feet.
One of our benign old Kretschmann’s
infant phenomena, the gifted girl went,
later, to study with Leschetizsky in Europe,
and afterwards polished up her French and
her fantasias in Paris. Married in 1911 to
Captain Charvin, Yvonne, the soul of music,
couldn’t exchange her piano for a vacuum-
cleaner. In her devoted husband’s absence
at sea she overworked her brain and
neglected her delicate frame. A slender sil-
houette on the teaching staff of the Conserva-
torium, she was oblivious of time if the pupil
was responsive. Six o’clock often found her
beginning a lesson, after a long and arduous
day. Dinner? With an interested student
that was as easily forgotten as lunch had
been. Holidays? Seven- or eight-hours’
practice at her beloved . Grand ! Then the
inevitable breakdown, and floods of sympathy
for the bereaved husband, who spent" the last
four months at the invalid’s side. Frank
Leverrier, K.C., is one brother; Harry, a
brilliant young engineer, is another.
What a blessed thing it is fur these
highly-strung musicians to get a mate who,
while sympathetic enough about their chords,
thinks more about their. sordid food and
rest! Goll, that other great pianist, dropped
dead-beat into his room at the Con. after
his last Sydney concert. A score of people
were waiting to talk music to him. “I am
so tired,'’ he whispered to his big, cheerful,
motherly wife. “Yes, so you are, dear,” she
said briskly. “I will take you home and put
you to bed at once.” And she did.
A long-postponed concert for France’s
Day took place* by strange coincidence, on
the evening of Yvonne Charvin’s death. Ver-
brugghen, in charge of the Conservatorium
orchestra, made the Town Hall ring with the
clash of carnival day in Naples. This, the
third movement of Charpentier’s “Impres-
sions d’ltalie,” didn’t stir the Highbrows
like the “Mule Back” impression, upon
which they daringly burst into applause. The
Master’s magnificent setting of the Mar-
seillaise, with the trumpets’ clarion call
to arms, had to be repeated. Consul
Chayet, French-Australian Leaguers—Mrs.
Jewett in the circle —the Premier’s lady,
George Black, Mrs. Neville Mayman and a
big committee were on the official carpet.
Myrtle Meggy tackled the complications of a
Saint-Saens concerto with remarkable
success. The wild animal wailed in G
minor, if that’s any help to you.
The Goold-Adamses finish their sight-see-
ing by inspecting the steel works at New-
castle.
The “Aborigines’ Dramatic Club” will
produce “a whirlwind of laughter” (see
programme) called “The Real Miss Pinker-
ton” on November 20, 21 and 24 at St.
James’s Hall for the good of various soldiers’
funds.
Alan Garrett Anderson, recently ap-
pointed Controller of Wheat in England, is
a son of the, Englishwoman who was the
first in modern days to demand and obtain
a medical degree, while her friends gasped
at the innovation. No one thinks it remark-
able that her daughter, Dr. Louisa Garrett
Anderson, should be Medical O.C. of a Lon-
don military hospital.
There’s another lad of Supreme Court
Judge Street’s in camp and just ready to
move off with Artillery reinforcements.
Artist Mary Edwards writes on her way
to Tahiti:—
Florence Young and some other J.C.W. folk got
up a concert on board, and the lady auctioned the
seats for £73. I believe this is a record for a
short voyage, though Melba’s concert on the boat
was close up with £67. The money goes to a M.L.
fund for wounded soldiers.
Careful over so many things, the late R.
S. Gillett, managing director of Anthony
Horderns’ and friend of artists, died without
making a will. There’s £44,585 to go, as a
consequence, to his next of kin, an only
surviving brother in England.
Ex-able-seaman Dr. Scot Skirving and his
titian-haired lady are due. He’s been
on the service list of the A.M.C. for
over two years, and is credited by the pro-
fession with some astonishing achievements.
A son was killed in France some time ago.
The cash rolls in, even when you'd expect
it to be bogged in the mud. A recent wet Satur-
day afternoon drove the Free Kindergarten
Garden Fair indoors. The wide verandahs
of Mrs. Mander Jones’s house at Wahroonga
held some of the stalls, and flower-decked
rooms sheltered the rest. W. G. Layton
opened the show, which, in spite of handi-
caps, produced an amazing £l7O.
When everyone gets weary over the straw-
splitting that hampers the new Conscription
hght, there’s always the Moreton Bay fig to
hurl an axe at. Just now its enemies are
calling it a dirty, greedy old thing not fit for
the elegance of, say, Hyde Park ! Its grate-
ful. shade and handsome foliage have no
weight with the choppers. Deputy-Gov. Cul-
len raised the present hue-and-cry by throw-
ing a bouquet at the shrub during a late
Local Government conference.
Pockets are working their way down to
the knees, and there they anchor like large
flat lace pancakes on the new summer frocks.
T he Society of Artists has definitely ticked
off December 1 for the opening of its show
at Queen Victoria Markets, and by good
luck the rooms are in that end of the dreary
old mausoleum which is still intact The
re-modelling of the Q.V.M. is well in hand ;
but the hammer and saw are clattering in
the other wing.
As a sideline to her work for so’jers,
Mrs. George Sargent has said there’s to be
a bazaar. So of course there will be
1 risoners of war in Hun camps get—or we
hope they will get—the benefit in food and
clothing. Sargents’ ballroom, Market-street;
November 21.
Any old chintz to spare? Owners of suites
ot turmture covered with cretonne ought to
get busy By cutting up and selling the
tfwi dear . fl ’ iend s (what are friends
made for?) they might turn an honest copper
in these hard times. For the more
the upholstery patterns the more fashionable
is the flowery way on the new frocks tv!
craze for making the smart girl look'like «
chair-cover may not last. But for in
moment it is a frenzy for seashore garb
Overhead is the cretonne gingham to match
the chintz lady in its shadow.
Here is what
Humphreys, of Mel-
bourne, makes of J.
II. Lang, national
sec. of the Y.M.C.A.
« ba £ k fl0m Egypt
and I ranee. Tb e
clenched jaw
sents that fighting
spirit of the Y.M
which sends it right
UP to the firing
line with hot soup
and coffee. Of tPn
and often its reps,
stop a bullet. But
no bullet can ston
its work.
Last week W. P.
Shaw, chairman of
r, the Y.M.’s Array and
Navy Department—headquarters i n Arli
bourne—-was host at a big party that sipped
tea m Farmer’s. But the teacups ceased
to tinkle and the ice-creams were forgotten
as J II. Lang gave a graphic story 0 f the
Australian in action. “I speak of him as
I saw him, in a long, red trail of walldng-
wounded in France, or blistered bv the
Egyptian sun yet cheery. His courageous
eyes still sparkled under blood-stained head
bandages as he moved, inch by inch, j ust
behind the firing-line in France after battle
. *** must walk who can—to leave the
incapacitated to the stretcher-bearers—and
most insist on dragging themselves to
the second dressing-stations. Heroic figures
no man for himself, everyone for his mate—
1-<la v re T T 0t el1 on this as Pect of Australia
at the hront, and the speaker coughed back
the lump in his throat, and switched the
story on to Billjim at play in the first spring
sunshine of 1917, after his fight at Bull?
court.
In spite of ripening sunshine the small hat
hke a turban still clings to the locks of our
chic—or cheekiest—damsels. There’s the
Wide brim, of course, for some, but the em-
broidered Boadicea toque is a feature of
Spring millinery.
Heartened up by the big £500 cheque that
fell into the coffers of the A.M.C. from the
Anderson Stuarts’ garden fair, the Comforts
dames are bustling round a new tea-room.
It s to lure the cash from thirsty students
who walk Prince Alfred Hospital.
Gwen Nelson, only chick of the .Herbert
Nelsons, is getting on nicely, thank you.
khe s with the Fox film people in USA
An adoring mother chats of leaving for
\\ llsonland early in 1918.
The Old Gold and Silver Fund is out for
fresh trade. Every copper goes to the patri-
otic. hat. They’ve taken spc.ee at the
National Economy Exhibition. Anything
you can spare—a set of old teeth or a mosaic
—will be gladly accepted.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
'S LTD
JEWELLERS.
THE LEADING HOUSE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
FINE WHOLE PEARL NECKLACES.
SPECIAL VALUE.
-
SPEC lAL VALI'I
An exceptionally large stock of fine Pearl Xeeklaces now on view
at the Company’s Showrooms. Inspection invited.
Full particulars on application.
LOOSE PEARLS IN LARGE VARIETY FOR ADDING TO
NECKLACES AND MOUNTING AS DESIRED.
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
XND AT LONDON.
There’s Splendid Satisfaction
in using that Grand Camera
iLßritish-m&de ENSIGN.
What a wealth of understanding there is in that term
British-made —what confidence does it not instil ! No
matter what the article may be, when you know that it
is British-made you feel at once that there is no make-
believe about it and that you can depend upon it to
give you satisfactory service.
The Ensign Camera amply justifies the feeling of con-
fidence that is reposed in it, and the man or woman
who uses an Ensign Camera not only has confidence in
its ability to produce good photos —he (or she) regards
it with the most friendly feelings, and treasures it as
the musician treasures his beloved violin or the Arab
his favorite steed.
Ensign Cameras are made in Box-form, Folding.
Regular and Reflex types, and range in price from 6/-
to £25, the prices being so nicely graduated that all
requirements can be suited.
The Folding Ensign, as illustrated, is a handsome and
compact type of Camera for Roll Films, and can be
loaded and unloaded in daylight. The body is of
seasoned wood, covered Black Leatherette ; it has Leather
Bellows, Nickel Fittings, Achromatic Meniscus Lens and
Ensign-Simplex Shutter giving Time, Bulb and Instan-
taneous Exposures of l/25th, l/50th, and l/100th of a
second.
The same Cameras can be had with Rapid Rectilinear Lens at 42/*, 00/-, 00/*
Call and let us show you how easy they are to use; if you live out of town send
for complete illustrated catalogue and handbook of photography it’s free to any address.
You Will Obtain Best Results if You
Have Your Residues and Assays
Treated at Harringtons.
Our Laboratories possess every facility for the scientific treatment of Ores Residues,
Sweepings and Waste Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal v\ oi 'ers,
and all work is done under the personal supervision of a qualified Chemist and Metallurgist
from Messrs. Johnson k Sons, London, Assayers to his Majesty s Government and the
Bank of England. , ~ ~ . , , , . „. , „
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis M e buy
materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those metals, or their
alloys, in plate or wire. ~ _ , , „
We invite your enquiries. A 'phone or letter addressed to any of our branches will
receive prompt attention.
u°
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George St. & 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
{.. )
hU k- : S
'm
VOT
__
*
S'*
81
-< i
•fc
QUIT THE OLD
WELCOME THE NEW!
IF you could become a scholar without the need of schooling —if
you could become a player of music without the need of
laborious training, you would certainly do so. Then welcome
indeed is the modern method whereby many precious hours are
saved, much expenditure in effort and money, for the solution is
ready at hand in the PIAXOLA. It unlocks for your use the
secrets of all music, and in a few hours you are revelling in the
world's musical triumphs, giving unlimited pleasure to yourself
and listeners.
Accept then this invitation to become a “Pianolaist. 75 Your
friends, yourself, will glory in this new-found art. Perhaps a
Piano lies idle in your home. Get it converted into something
more useful. Put the money lying idle to better advantage by
giving it in part payment for the much-cherished PIAXOLA.
A WORD OF WARXIXG is needed when purchasing, to see that
you buy the genuine
PIANOLA PIANO.
Obtainable only in the following world-famous Pianos —The
Steinway. Aeolian Stock. Aeolian Stroud, Farrand, and the
English-made Aeolian Weber.
Catalog and all particulars forwarded gratis to any address.
To the PIOLA C'OMPAXY
Please sevid me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos ,
showing how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can make on my present piano,
which is a
Bought about
Xatne
She
i
T
V.
Si
PIANOLA
Sydney
ianola
Co.Pty. Ltd. 384 Oeoroe St.. Sydney.
THE CENTRE
FOR THE WORLDS
GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENTS
mi t
83
11/
L
m
Aeolian
Reg* Trade Mara
/MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS.
And at 252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ;
436 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.


Prepare for
Summer Showers.
jr
PR2.
PRI.
.Stormproof Oil Clothing
from FARMER’S
Extremely light in weight, very
tough in material, and rendered
waterproof by the many applica-
tions of best oil.
PRI.— “THE VICTOR STORMPROOF,”
double top, patent seamless cape shoul-
ders, wind cuffs, double-lined. Full
slicked fronts. Heavyweight black
cloth 25/-
Speeial tropical black Japara (light-
weight). PRICE 30/-
Also as above (with butterfly backs).
PRICE 27/6, 35/-
PR2.— “THE VICTOR STORMPROOF”
POMMEL COAT, for riding or walking
pommel front, butterfly back, double-lined,
velvet collar, wind cuffs; light-weight
tropical black Japara 35/-
We Pay Carriage. -
F armer’s, Sydney
Get this Wonderful Beauty Book FREE!
Home Beauty Course, including
Preparations, offered
This offer of a complete “course” of home
beauty treatment, coupled with a magnificent
Free Gift, will enable every lady reader to
gain without cost practically the same bene-
fits as would be secured by a personal visit
to an expensive Beauty Specialist. When it
stated that the Free Gift includes a supply
of the wonderful “Cre- v *
tonic” Vanishing
Cream, that has
aroused so much excite-
ment in the world of
feminine activity, every
lady reader will natu-
rally be eager to accept
it and thus commence,
without loss of time,
exercises which will ef-
fect an astonishing im-
provement in even the
worst of complexions
and the roughest hands
and arms.
Delightfully simple
to use on every occa-
equally everyone, matter wha*
Liberal Samples of Cretonic Toilet
FREE to our Readers.
the present state of the complexion. What
impresses one as really marvellous is the ex-
quisite bloom of youth and beauty that is
brought into evidence with almost the first
application of Cretonic Vanishing Cream.
When the complexion is looking its worst,
when the skin appears dull, faded and almost
“lifeless,” one touch brings back all the
natural clearness and brilliancy.
Cretonic Hair and Toilet Preparations in-
clude the following: Hair Massage 3/6. Face
Cream 3/-, Tooth Paste 1/-, Shampoo Powders
3d. each or 2/6 per doz., Face Powder 3/-.
Medicinal and Toilet Soap 1/-, and can he
obtained through all Chemists and Stores, or
Post Free direct from the proprietors.
If you prefer to test one or all of these ex-
cellent preparations before purchasing a sup-
ply, samples, together with book, will he sent
on request by
THE CRETONIC CHEMICAL CO.,
Country Press Chambers,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
t Enclose 3d. for single samples, or 6d. for t‘ ie
six, to cover cost of postage and packing, etc.
If book only required, enclose Id.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, November 12, 1917.
My Dear Yabiue.—-
The weather being miraculously fine, Cup
Day saw Melbourne in its most furious and
crowded state. Gorgeous dresses were
elbowed and jostled, and the expensive toes
of thin kid boots were trampled mercilessly.
One elegant dame went limping to her Rolls
Royce and emerged again, beaming, in comfy
old shoes; she had planted a change under
the seat in ease she couldn’t bear the torture.
Champagne popped frivolously and fre-
quently at the tables under the elms. The
Rajah had a lunch party; so had the
Harpers, the Mackays, the Thiels and the
Gillespies. The Barney Thompsons, Tom
Whites and Russell Gabbs uncrowned squads
of gold-tops in the long race intervals. Dr.
O’Hara with all his brood, including Mrs.
Stephen Rowan from Bananaland, had a
jolly table. Dr. “I’at” Leary-and Dr. Joyce
were also gunners in the Bottle Artillery.
The Leslie Stuarts and the Leslie Mac-
donalds shared tables with the Philip Mor-
tons and Sam Horderns from Sydney. The
Stewart Bruntons entertained their Sydney
relations, the Spencer Bruntons. Squatter
Hidgecock, from the Murrumbidgee, hosted a
big party of girls, led by his own pretty
flapper daughters.
The Falkiner clan were well regaled from
hampers unpacked by busy chauffeur
menials. The only time when your real,
ducal chauffeur will consent to hand food
and do odd jobs is at a Cup meeting. The
Clive Leonards browsed under the trees.
Mrs. Hunter Landale had a party, and the
Howard Smiths a groaning board—l heard
it. Mrs. Harry Ivirkby chaperoned a corps
of girls. Gaud Mayor Stapely and his wife
had a lunch party.
At the terrace steps you caught glimpses
of interesting arrivals and departures;
otherwise the individual was lost in the
great buzzing crowd. Secretary Victor Hood
was discovered slipping away in a neat
limousine with a quiet party of Govern-
ment House visitors, mostly men. Officially
Government House knows not Flemington in
war time. Marie Tempest also poised for
a few moments on the steps. She wore an
inspired fawn race coat, flared and short,
and a black hat like a volcano peak.
Graham Browne raced about after her
motor-car. Westcourt Seaton and his
brother danced together in celebration of
the victory, and the Shepherd girls nearly
had heart failure in the excitement of the
close finish with their horse Lingle. Mrs.
Melba Armstrong appeared in huge checks
of black-and-white taffetas.
The woman-betting nuisance in the pad-
dock is becoming more open as time goes
on, for the rule that you and I must not
bet in the ring is not enforced. On Cup
Day there was an unpleasant scene. A
woman, who declared she had backed
Westcourt, went to collect, but Israel in-
sisted that the scrawl on the ticket meant
Lingle. The disappointed bettor beat the
bookie over the back with her brolly,
shrieked, went into kicking hysterics, and
had to be carried away.
On Steeplechase Day the women kept up
a continuous chorus of “Isn't it stifling!”
while they slowly stewed inside their elabo-
rate race garments. The plump women in
chintz gowns looked more than ever like
sofas. Maude Fane was cool and perky
in a youthful stage hat with blue ribbons
and a childish frock. She paraded the lawn
with Genthelp Conant. Mrs. Harry Kirkby
was another who defied the weather and
looked fair and cool as an ice-cream. Mrs.
Minton wore blue roses and blue togs. Mrs.
Norman Falkiner wore a slim waist, a navy
rfinon and five big embroidered spots in
bizarre coloring. Mrs. Barry Thompson
made a sensation in apple-green linen em-
bossed with white chiffon roses. Her hat,
parasol and peggy-bag all had the same Arts
and Crafts design. Mrs. Sam Mackay gave
a large tea-party ; there were about GO women
round her tea-urn, etc. Especially etc.
Mrs. Willie Hughes, the MacGregors, Mrs.
Ledingham and Mrs. Thompson were among
the crowd. Sam Hordern and the Osbornes,
from Sydney, looked in for a while. Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald was there in navy blue
with the newest tulle choker. Mrs. Ether-
idge looked cool in white with a smart flat
black hat. Mrs. Leslie Stuart complained
about the heat under the next flat black
hat, and the Dalrymples wore that “When-
will-it-change?” look. Mrs. Russell Gabb
inhabited an Indian muslin frock with a
wide hat of black and gold tulle. Mrs. Tom
White had a duck of a race coat —cham-
pagne color. The Murrumbidgee Hidgecock
girl wore a black tulle tower. Mrs. Widdis
»vas in black. The Derbys were over from
Adelaide. She was a Crozier, you know.
Pretty Mrs. Ivither (Adelaide) showed up
her complexion with fuchsia colors in her
hat. Mrs. Barney xUlen invited sunstroke
with a bronze shield for a parasol. Another
woman shrieked for notice with a parasol
of purple mixed with cerise chenille. Her
excuse was that the conspicuous brolly
helped hubby to find her in the crowd. The
Spanish Consul’s black-haired wife wore a
big red rose to help her pale face and white
frock. Mrs. Davey spread immense wings
of black and white glace—a real “race”
frock.
General Stanley watched the galloping in
pale grey mufti. The Tasmanian West-
brooks were out, Mrs. W. in grey. Squattress
Lindsay (Western District) was in a tub
frock. Clifford and his missus from Hobart
were on hand. The Everard Brownes
proudly brought their 17-year-old just-out
daughter. Dr. Jack O’Brien, in khaki and
returned colors, showed off his pretty fiancee.
The Percy Laidlaws, of Hamilton, wandered
among the sports.
Marie Tefnpest went out on Oaks Day
in a marvellous blue dress. Her head was
swathed in a butter-colored veil so thickly
patterned that only her eyes showed through
it. Ada Reeve also made an appearance.
She flared in smart blue toggery to match
the brilliant weather. Mrs. Baldoek, who
had journeyed all the way from India for
the Cup meeting, floated along in a misty
blue gown with a glass-bead collar like a
milk-jug cover. Mrs. Frazer Collins pro-
vided a color contrast in shell pink from hat-
brim to toe. Graham Browne wore a blue
tie, blue eyes and grey flannels. Croker got
into his finest-day waisted raiment. Squatter
Sam Mackay said his farewells ere breaking
away for Westralia. Mrs. Norman Falkiner
wore her pale chiffons with smiles when
hubby’s Folly Oueen ran off with the Oaks.
Poor tenor Kirby nibbled his way through
the race festivities as far as Oaks Day, and
was then carted off to a hospital to have his
appendix removed, leaving acres of refresh-
ments untasted.
There was a brilliant party at Federal
Government House on Thursday night. Not
for the races. Certainly not! For an in-
vestiture of honors. The G.-G. and Lady
Helen received their guests from a dais in
the drawing-room. The G.-G. was in his
most gorgeous official clothes, and Lady
Helen wore a slim black chiffon gown and
several quarts of diamonds. Her blazing
tiara made her look taller, and a weighty
necklace of diamonds dripped with pendants
of the same stones. There were diamonds
even on the buckles of her shoes. Lady
Stanley, also in black, stood in the back-
ground with our State Ex. She wore some
marvellous purple hot-house flowers with her
jewels. A lane was made down the draw-
ing-room for the honored gents and their
supporters. The guests—just back from
the Oaks—could hardly restrain themselves
from climbing on the brocaded seats and
using their race glasses on the parade.
Major Steward, in a sweet costume which in-
cluded hlack silk stockings, followed each
group up the lane, carrying a crimson
cushion with the bauble resting thereon.
Custom made him self-assured ; all the other
men were hopelessly nervous. Fighting
“Bob” Owen broke into a perspiration and
confessed after that he would face any fight-
ing odds rather than do the parade" again.
Murray, of South Australia, was knighted.
Little Prof. Harrison Moore was decorated.
General Legge, watching the show, remarked
on the new idea of a riband round the neck.
He had his decorations pinned on with a
brooch. The G.-G. wore a monocle and a
haughty air during the solemnities. Some
clumsy spectators rattled the fire-irons and
made an awful clatter at one stage, and
the glassy eye nearly froze them stiff.
Knight Miller received his decoration with
his stately dame watching under her diamond
tiara. Mrs. Ryan, the Bananaland Premier’s
handsome wife, was in black, with a heap of
gems. Mrs. (Justice) Isaacs wore a gorgeous
gown of lace and pale satins. Mrs. Robert
Harper, in black, brought her beautiful new
daughter-in-law. The Everard Brownes had
their flapper daughter with them as a debu-
tante. She looked sweet in white and blue,
with her hair well piled up. Flying Major
Harrison, in khaki, made a foil for his wife,
who wore royal blue, her wonderful com-
plexion and some black opals. All the con-
suls bar one were in gorgeous clothes; the
exception was the Chinese representative,
who wore the neatest of evening garb.
Supper was a glittering buffet spread with
champagne and chicken—really a glorified
elaboration of the railway refreshment-room
where rushed travellers with one eye on
the clock and one ear cocked for the bell
stand up and drink sausages and tea. In
the supper-room version, however, the gold
plate was out and the roses were magnifi-
cent ; also the champagne was chilled to just
the right temperature, and no guest jostled
or scrambled. Sassiety is so glad of a party
nowadays that the motor-lights in Govern-
ment House grounds were thick as stardust.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen started for
Westralia at the week-end by the long steel
road. The Forrests and a few other notabili-
ties were also aboard. But there’s to be no
formal opening. The new Conscription cam-
paign has folded up the corkscrew.
Sister Adelaide’s prattle :
A Red Cross carnival enticed his Ex. to Gawler
on Saturday. It was his first official visit. He
lunched with the Mayor and Corporation, said thank-
you for an illuminated address, and congratulated
Gawler on its 500 men at the Front.
At its annual meeting (the 41st, by the way) the
Children’s Hospital reported a deficit of £ll6O on
the year’s work, and pretty much the same tale was
told at the fete held on Saturday afternoon in the
Exhibition Building in aid of the Minda Home for
weak-minded children. This show was to have been
opened by Lad}' Galway, but she was not well enough
to attend, so the Josiah Symon lady obliged.
At the Children’s Hospital meeting Mrs. Allan
Campbell was elected a life-governor, an honor that
has been bestowed only once or twice before. For
30 years she has been one of the hospital’s keenest
workers, as were her husband, the late Dr. Allan
Campbell, and her brother, the late Chief Justice
Way. Indeed, it is a good deal owing to the enthu-
siasm of the Campbells and the Ways that the
Children’s Hospital rests on such a good foundation
to-day.
The M. S. Hawkers’ son Charles, who was seri-
ously wounded in the early days of the war, has been
seriously wounded again. Lieut. R. P. Ford, who
served with the British Red Cross in the Balkan
War of 1912-13, has been killed in France; and
the W. 11. F. Barleys have heard that their son has
died of wounds. Capt. Bayley, who was Government
Inspector of Mines in the Federated Malay States
when war broke out, went to England and joined
the tunnelling corps of the Royal Engineers. He
was badly wounded in 1916, but returned to duty
and won the M.C. in April last. His youngest
brother was killed in the same month of the previous
year.
J. N. Taylor, president of the Commercial Travel-
lers’ Club, was farewelled during the week. He
goes to London, where he is to be one of the Red
Cross Commissioners.
C. 11. Warren, who died within the week, was a
son of George Warren, an old Gawler identity, and
a nephew of the late John Warren, M.L.C. Mourn-
ing him are a widow and two daughters—Mrs.
Lavington Bonvthon and Miss Warier.
Graham Carey, the Victorian airman, has had
bad luck with his machine in Adelaide; the city has
seen singularly little effective flying at any time.
Carey went up on the afternoon of the Commercial
Travellers’ show 7 at the Oval, but, meeting a terrific
storm as he flew over the city, the comic result
was that most of the suburbs got an excellent view
of the unusual sight, while the paying crowd at the
Oval, which had brought him specially from Mel-
bourne, did not see him at all.
Jean, of the Mount Lyell Tullochs, is
being pelted with congratulations. The
lucky man is sheep-grower Brock, of Tassy.
Jean came across from the Speck about two
years back to wear a cap and apron in the
Children’s Hospital. She really thought she
had found her vocation until the sheep-
raiser (who has known her since she pinned
her plaits up) showed her the error of her
think.
Beatrice, one of the pretty Davis twins,
has married medical Captain Harvey Sutton,
who got into khaki two years ago. The bride
and sister Gwynneth left for London at the
same period, to be near brothers Clayton
and Geoff. Dad and his younger daughter
Marguerite are sheltering in a South Yarra
hasherie. The death of his wife and the
scattering of the family made the Toorak
home too lonesome.
Millie Harper’s bride is a magnificent girl
of Nance O’Neil proportions, with smooth
magnolia-creamy skin and a weight of dark
auburn hair brushed very smoothly from her
pale face. Once Miss Phillips, of San Fran-
cisco, her mother is a noted Sassiety beauty
of California. At the Government House
party on i riday she appeared under the
wing of her proud mother-in-law, Mrs. Robert
Harper. She looked like a young
Briinnehilde in a tunic swathing of silver
tissue over a bronze tulle skirt, her auburn
hair smoothed back like a casque.
Sybil, baby of the Bowes Kelly quartette
of daughters, had a dance in Cup Week. It
w ® s . supposed to be “just a children’s
but tbe friv °lous grown-ups are all
children nowadays if they hear two-step
music. The show was very smart; the
youngsters in their teens who’ attended’ wore
sweet little frocks which were mostly tulle
and fairy wreaths of tiny flowers.
imposing grown-ups visiting from the other
States came along in overwhelming
brocades. Mrs. Willie Hughes (Sydney)
arrived with Mrs. Ledingham. and the Mac-
Gregors from the Apple Island were a.t.p.
The Leslie Stuarts also hosted a “chil-
dren's” dance, which was swamped by the
smart people who are no longer infants even
in the eye of the Law. The Stuarts have a
gorgeous ballroom. They acquired ’
mansion which the Fred Faint - the new
built with a special view to ■ had
the friends of their young dauvhf rtaUUng
Sons - v' j 1 0? tlie b °y s went to the war Un< !
Jess Fairbairn went abroad to nvim and
dier, so the deserted mother took to a V® 1 '
Banool, the Geoff. SymeT
been lent for the Ruyton Fete which if* 8
pens on Saturday, November 17 hap ‘
strong Sassiety committee, with a
of 50, includes Mrs. Cholmondelev
Merritt, the Outhwaites, the Vances M /h'
Ilindleys, Aubie Campbell and Esther
gerald. The Geoffrey Symes n-t. n 1 . z *
the show, which is to be run
old Buytomans and present flappers of
swaggah girls’ college. 1 01 the
The tall and spectacular Harris
married Carmen Pinschof and disarmed
from public ken for a considerable Xe is
said to have been found inside a nnifnV
the British Front in Flanders! i? 5 “
is alleged to be enduring her se“ a %“ “
grand opera in America. According tn
returned traveller, the plump songstress is
S‘Tnd 1 r, a - d 0
Melba has not cabled a word to the familv
about her stage accident in America: she k
reported to have been hurt by a falling flghf
by Tetter. being eagerlj ' looked tor
A sumptuous race-crowd saw Marv
h irst at the Royal on Saturday. The Putin
kota pair were unobtrusive details in a sort
ot social salad which poured into an imner
box. I cannot remember all the ingredients
but the most prominent were a bookmaker’s
wife, Customs Minister Jensen and several
sacks of diamonds. Jensen, with an enor-
mous watchchain festooning his dining-room
was the overwhelming feature of the fore’
ground. On the stage Marie Tempest was a
succession of screams. One garment in
cerise velvet edged with fur, with pearl
grey boots to set it off, made her look like the
prologue to an Elinor Glyn adventure. Gwen
Burroughs s nice shoulders managed to
escape from a striking canary cage that
tried to drag her down; and Ethel Morrison
in a wide array of colors and wigs, was a
camouflaged Juno who bulged out of every
scene. 3
“Hamlet,” at King’s, had a highbrow
house on Saturday night. About 50 of the
Alliance Frangaise trooped in as one theatre
party, and a great batch of Shakspeareans
bung on the words of Maclaren as he
juggled Yoiick s skull. Jimmy Dyer was
there, with his enthusiastic wife, who is
battling for a real Shakspearean school
Rene Vanderkelen brought his wife—a con-
valescent drooping effectively in white tulle.
Mrs. Buesst spread much smart grey chiffon
in the circle.
"Robbery Under Arms” drew a big Oaks
night crowd of country folk to the re-deco-
rated Princess’s. The Motts, of Ashton sheep-
run (’way beyond Townsville), were boxed
and recognised a historical home paddock
“set” on the stage. Mrs. Glenloth Peter had
her party in another pen. Mrs. Burrett.
from Riverina way, was there smiling
proudly. One son who is still in his twenties
has been made lieut.-colonel, and two others
are winning war distinctions. John Madden
sat placidly in the stalls through all the
stage-firing and never turned a moustache.
Graham Browne in “Good Gracious, Anna-
belle,” is made up the image of George Tallis.
The expression of jauntiness that George
gets when coming off the golf-links after a
good round or when his theatre is sold out
Browne has caught and added to the pro-
bably-accidental greasepaint portrait. The
effect is startling.
The Rep. Theatre girls, Isabel and Kate
Handley and Allie Robson, are just back
from their jaunt to America. They perched
in many theatres and saw Margaret Anglin
play “A Pair of Green Stockings,” done
here by Lesley Madden and other amateurs.
O. P. Heggie had just finished playing Ghes-
terton’s “Magic.” Heggie showed the visi-
tors much kindness. He is now regarded
as the foremost character-actor in the
States. Maude Adams, in Barrie’s “A Kiss
for Cinderella,” took their fancy most for
charm. They met Cecile Englehart. Her
husband, Gerraty, is connected with the pub-
lishing biz. You remember that Cecile was
one of the J. C. Williamson beauties years
ago. Mrs. Hughie Ward, plump and affable,
popped up on their horizon. The clothes
stores were wonderful, but the shopgirls
very bored. New York women were carry-
ing immenrse knitting-bags—which often
didn’t contain knitting. The musical com-
edies did not outdistance Australian produc-
tions, but the revues were blazes of color
and undraped girls, young and beautiful.
After America got into the war, women
were often seen dressed in khaki, a fac-
simile of the real uniform to the last but-
ton—wherever that might be. Rector’s and
such-like restaurants exceeded all expecta-
tions, supplying an excellent vaudeville
show between the courses.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—still going strong
Al 1 ®
V
V
V
-i
x^
I&
Z 1
&
- *t
s.
/;
_3Ui{lWji>
jjHHfc
s
>
k
?
s
5
/
w
TK
%
t
/
mmm
v*
*
'4£
f
3>
o
&
?0
v-
o
z
A
C*
\
!I
K
7
N
S
I
ifl
(yt**&^*
et ‘A dog with a bone doesn’t want company.’
But a man with ‘Johnnie Walker’ appreciates
good company.’’
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


HE'AN
® TONIC
wz
Arc the RELIABLE HOME REMEDY for
Headaches, Backache,
Insomnia, Anaemia,
Neuralgia, Brain Fag,
Lassitude, Breakdown,
and such-like ailments.
>' oll s yff er from any of these neuras-
thenic conditions do not make the mistake of
taking drugs or stimulants.
What you need is something to purify and enrich the blood and
For this purpose you cannot get anything better than
nourish
the nerves.
Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
Obtainable from reliable chemists and stores. Price:
35.; or six boxes for 17s. 3d. If not stocked in your
HEAN, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney/
Box containing 12 days’
locality send direct 'to
supply,
G. W.
▼
King
QeorgelV'
1 WHEsmr
’Scotch
ABSOLUTE!*'IT
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The Indians on the
upper Pilcomayo (S. America) are much more
civilised than Binghi, as they cultivate maize,
millet and mandioca and a poor kind of sugarcane,
which form their staple foods. They also brew viru-
lent grog from these plants and the fruit and seed-
pods of forest trees, and these hell-broths are respon-
sible for the weirdest, most bestially sensual jam-
borees ever known on the planet. The natives catch
coarse, muddy-flavored fish by much the same
method as that adopted by Queensland coastal nigs.
They build a long, narrow yard of reeds at one side
of a shallow reach, and this yard has a wing which
stretches diagonally down stream until it reaches
the opposite bank Then the whole tribe enters the
water about half a mile down stream and pande-
monium is let loose. The fish flee before the awful
racket until they strike the diagonal wing, and are
shoo-erl into the yard. Then the hand-nets, spears
and clubs get to work. As with the Australian abo.,
the women do the toil. They carry the fire-sticks, or
pieces of smouldering punk, to start the camp-fires,
A FULL HOUSE.
BILL: “ ’Struth, they're coming in hun-
dreds!”
HORATIO ( late touring actor-manager) :
“ Ha! A successful opening night at
last!”
the domestic utensils, a piccaninny or two, and at
times a lame dog or a litter of pups. Occasionally
they suckle the pups. The Indian sets greater store
on his dogs than on his missus. He is very fond of
tobacco and fresh beef, and no sacrifice is too great
which secures him even a small helping of these
luxuries. He will cheerfully agree to a temporary
transfer of his conjugal rights for a few kilos of
bull beef and plug of weed. His method of
numeration is similar to Jacky’s: “One, two an’
’nother feller” ; or, “Altogedder too blanky many
’nother feller.” His idea of a Supreme Being is the
usual one of a bad person who must be propitiated.
The marriage ceremony is much the same as that of
the Australian abo. One fine day the gentleman
chases the lady into the jungle, where the marriage
is consummated without further formality. The
happy couple then return to the bosom of the tribe,
and the bride lights a fire on the outskirts of the
camp and gets busy building the happy home. Sick-
ness is “cured” by charms, the beating of tom-toms
and a howling which resembles a conference of
hungry dingoes on a cold rainy night. When these
remedies fail a pair of demoniacal-looking “doctors”
take hold of the patient and bend him over a log
until his back is broken. This saves time. In the
case of contagious or infectious disease the whole
tolderia is set on a fire, and the sick left to their
fate. It is somewhat curious that these savages
should hanker so much after beef, as their hunting
grounds afford plenty of small deer and other furred
game, as well as waterfowl, pigeons, partridges, etc.,
in thousands.
* * * *
“The Lamb”: It’s not the game it’s
cracked up to be, this living in billets. Where we
are now, 15 of us are lodged in a stable. The
weather has been vile, and one particularly bad
night last week the old cocky insisted on putting
the cow in with us. That was bad enough, but the
lady was inconsiderate enough to have a calf that
night. I was very handy in that line, and after I’d
fixed everything nicely I got some phenyl and
sluiced the cobbles. Just then the old dame came
in, and thinking Blossom had burst her milk-bottle,
there was nearly as much row as there was the day
we painted the Grand National starters’ names on a
litter of pigs and had a few bob on the ensuing
mix-up.
* * * *
“Imlay”: Now and then one strikes
some rare birds among tussocks or rushes near the
South Coast (N.S.W.) lagoons and ponds. The
rarest, perhaps, is the little crake, a most diminutive
silvery-grey fowl barred delicately with light brown
across the chest. It may easily be mistaken for
the young of some other aquatic bird, being about
half the size of the common landrail or pectoral rail.
It is most retiring in habit and rarely leaves its
reedy fastnesses. Occasionally, too, the little grass-
bird is flushed from cover about these damp places,
and flutters like a large moth over its abode, chirp-
ing feebly the while. It rarely flies far and plumps
back into cove) - at the first opportunity, as the
handsome ground parrot used to do before foxes,
assisted perhaps by poisoned grain and pollard,
practically exterminated him. There is a legend
that in one part of N. S. Wales the ground parrot
is Still fairly -numerous and has taken to breeding
in tunnels in steep hills, etc.
* * * *
“D.F.” : There are some fairly flat stretches
in Northern Vic. I once remarked to a citizen of
Tatura that there didn’t seem to be any notable
eminences round his town. “Ah,” he said, “we
used to have a fine sandhill just outside the show-
ground. But it’s gone now; they’ve carted it all
away to use for one job and another about the town-
ship.”
* * 4 •
“Werrimee”: Old Jimmy Cart was a boun-
dary rider by profession and a political enthusiast
in his spare time. He lived in a lonely spot by
himself. He never went into town to vote, but
took an active part in every campaign. He imag-
ined that he was the candidate for the district, and
night after night would amuse himself holding solo
meetings in front of his camp. Trees and bushes
represented the audience, the dog' was chairman.
Standing on a log, with a quart-pot of water and
a pannikin on a stump beside him, he would deliver
a long address at the top of his voice, airing his
views on every conceivable question from winning
the war to the culvert that wasn’t over Boggy
Gully, and winding up with a vote of confidence
in himself, which he carried unanimously. He was
defeated only once. On that occasion two travellers
eame up and surprised him just as he was warming
up to his speech. In a flood of blushes he dived
into the audience—that is, among the trees —and hid
there until the visitors departed. Then he crept
humbly back to his tent and crawled into bed —the
most badly-whipped candidate of the election.
* * * *
“The Squidge”: While chasing Turks on
the sandy wastes of the Sinai Peninsula I came
across a peculiar kind of vegetable. It looked like
a huge onion, weighing in some cases nearlv 101 K,
had large green leaves about 18 inches lo'ng and
about 3in. to 4in. across, and was always green. It
appeared to be cultivated by the Bedouin Arabs. I
questioned our camel-drivers, but made no headway
—they “mush arif” (didn’t know). If there is any
eligible single naturalist knocking around I’d sug-
gest to him to hop across there. He can do two jobs
in one.
* * * *
“Amber” : The adjoining villages of Malms-
bury, Taradale and Elphinstone (Vic.) hold annual
snake-killing competitions. Last year Elphinstone
won with a cool century to spare. This year Malms-
bury has opened the competition in promising form.
Its first report announces that during the last three
weeks the local champion has accounted for 18 vary-
ing from 4ft. 6in. to 7ft. ’
“Curlew”: “Leo Lear’s” choice of the
dozen most beautiful birds of S.W. Victoria does not
harmonise with my selection from N.E. Victoria. The
redcapped robin is certainly a beauty, and no one
can screw up his nose at the red lory and the
rosella, which are beautiful in form and coloring The
sacred kingfisher with us replaces the azure,' and
the blue wren is as good as it is beautiful. The
bee-eater is handsome; ditto the Nankeen night-
heron a distinguished-looking party with unusual
long white plumes. I would give the white-shafted
fantail a place over more guudy birds, and as a
study in black and white would include the mud-
lark, whose only fault is its labored flight The
cockatoo gets a place, partly by reason of its won-
derful beauty when viewed at close quarters in a
“ /he firetail finch and the white-fronted chat
battle for eleventh place, and I would unhesitatingly
give the wedge-tailed eagle twelfth.
A COMPLETE DEFENCE.
LADY TEACHER (investigating complaint): "Did you spit in this hoy’s face?”
SMALL BOY: “No, miss.”
TEACHER: "Now, tell me the truth—did you?”
SMALL BOY: “ Please, miss, I missed him.”
“Andy Cap”: Morrissey, the crank who
wanders about the landscape with a cargo of varie-
gated snakes, blew into Wyalong (N.S.W.) t’other
day, sought an exclusive saloon, and proceeded to
allay an enviable thirst. He was encored by four
tigers which poked their heads from windows in his
coat, and the presence of these associates
of James’s ravels scared off a John Hop, but the
editor of the local newspaper, with a courage charac-
teristic of the species, prevailed on the snake-tamer
to kill the encumbrances. Whereupon Morrissey
grabbed the tigers by the tail and cracked them like
a whip. That settled them. Australia’s greatest
snake “charmer” is nearing the 70th mile-post.
“Te Whare”: Victorian aboriginals had
some strange customs concerning food. To boys over
10 years of age kangaroo meat was tabu—until they
arrived at manhood. Young bucks were warned off
black (wild) duck, crane, emu, eagle, snake, wal-
laby and “young from the pouch.” To adult gins
the male ’possum, wallaby and red kangaroo and
the snake were forbidden, while enceinte ladies were
confined chiefly to a vegetable diet. Sausages of
fat enclosed in pelican entrails and the big moth
which breeds about the Bugong mountain - (Australian
Alps) were considered delicacies; so were ants’ eggs
loasted on slips of bark and wild duck’s and swan’s
eggs, baked in the ashes. Fish w T ere steamed by
placing them on wet grass laid over hot ashes or live
coals.
C aptain”: For speed in matrimony and
dhorce New Guinea stands alone. I saw this busi-
ness put through by the district officer in a few
minutes. Present: The D. 0.; the petitioner, Tugli;
the respondent, Mysini (mary) ; the co-re, Pungee:
Tmdi t 0 : ''You no bkem mary belonga you,
Tugli (angrily); “Me no like. Mysini been stop
longa other fella Pungee one time. Me speakem
true.
D. 0.: “You savvy, Tugli, mary belongja you wants
go stop all time longa other fella Pungee?’'
Tugli (with a grunt) : “Me savvv, boss.”
D Vr” t°.?; I 3 “You no likem fella Tugli belonga
you, Mysini ?” 6
Mysini: “Me no like.”
much* eh?”° U likem otller fe * la Pun See plenty too
Mysini (coyly) : “Y-e-e-s.”
" Now w. *■«*—»•
Pungee (earnestly): “Me likem, boss. Me no
gammon. Me want stop longa Mvsini ”
mariP" • :-V’u ri f ht - You *7° fella b °y- one fella
mary, me t£dk longa you plenty strong too much.
V)u, Tugli, no longer fella belonga Mysini. You
Mysini, no longer mary belonga Tugli No ston
M?l h r v SaVVV J You ’ Pongee, now* fella belonga
Savvy ? finis??’ 1 " 1 ’ "° W bdonga Pungee '
There are no crusts for learned counsel in that court.
“Pixie”: The largest death-adder I have
ever seen measured 3ft. all but an inch. That was
IS months ago, some miles from Brisbane, along the
North Coast line. It was a female, with very large
fangs. A few yards away a fine two-year-old bull
calf was lying dead—no doubt the work of the
adder. I cut the crawler open and discovered that
she had breakfasted upon a full-grown swallow. The
yarn about the tail of the adder containing poison
is absolute nonsense.
THE FORTUNE HUNTER.
CAMBEWABBA HARRY : “What you bin want
it marry Lizzie for? You bin thinkit
get it that house and furniture, you make
it plurry mistake.”
“Oyo”: If you have nothing but foul-
smelling, kill-at-a-thousand-yards black-jack plu{
and must have a smoke where the aroma might be
objectionable to gins or other ladies, stick a fine
splinter of myall down the centre of the pipefull
and go ahead.
(Continued on page 24.1
TREASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
when the Germans occupied Alsace-Lorraine thev
made it treasonable to use the French phrase ‘it
bientet’—equivalent to our ‘so-long.’
If, hither borne on victory’s wings,
The Kaiser ‘landed on this shore,
The bitter arrows and the stings
Of fate we vainly might deplore;
For if that vile mischance should come
Billjim perforce would be struck dumb.
Our choicest adjective, for sure,
Would fall beneath the German ban.
No longer would Australian pure
Be useful to a man;
And treason they would call
Each word we said at all.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’MOSES.


Murdock’s
Famous
Panamas
are just the hats you need
for the hot, sweltering days.
We are offering values that
will appeal to men who want
to save cash on a smart
Summer Panama.
Genuine
South American
Panamas
in a wide range of styles—
nice, creamy bleach and even
p 1 a i t —cool, comfortable
hats that you will appreciate
—brim widths to suit every
taste —smartly finished with
black silk band and Sweat
Leather.
Call and make your choice
to-day or write Desk R.
#
t
/A
ALL PANAMAS POST FREE.
Smart
Stylish
Panamas
2i; 2J- and 21-
inch brims,
12/6
Murdoch’s
Popular
Panamas
strong, good-wear-
ing hats with 2J-,
2i-i 2J-, 3-, Si-
inch brims.
21/-
Smart
City
Panamas
attractive in
style and shape
—2i- and 2J-
— inch brims.
22/6
Superior
Quality
Panamas
in popular brim-
widths — 2^
inches,
25|-
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney,
"Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
NORTH
BRITISH
•*k
m f
%
IS*:.
;t-.Y- *
1: .
r.=
y#&
r.tV-' ’
smith *>*3
JULIUS X
Tyres
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
“The Tyres that
are Superior"
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WILLIAM CROSBY & CO.,
Wholesale Agents for
New South Wales.
20 Loftus Street, Sydney,
THE BIG SIX-IN-ONE TOOL.
2000 in 18 Months
That’s the number sold throughout Aus-
tralia in the past year and a half. They
have gone to all parts of the Common-
wealth and no complaints have been re-
ceived. This combination tool has given
universal satisfaction, and many pur-
chasers say they would not part with it
for twice what they paid. This is proof
of the exceptional value of the
STEWART HANDY-WORKER, the
most practical combined tool ever
designed.
E>
d M
5-S)
What It Comprises:
A steel-faced vise opening to 4%
inches.
A steel pipe vise taking pipe up to
1 inches.
A strong and sturdy anvil.
A cutting hardie.
A corundum grinding wheel, Sin. by
lin., three speeds.
A 2-speed drill press, taking any
standard drill; 2 drills included
with outfit.
Price
851-
Bl , g
salewtM?
HANDY WORKER
Price
851-
Weight, Boxed, 1001 b.
The Complete Home & Garage Workshop.
Weight, Boxed 1001 b.
, ,• , if . h t jj} s combined tool, and do them well. For putting a good cutting edge on cutlery and tools it is excellent. \\ ith the Anvil
You can do a great number o fjob ® Hardie you can clip a piece of wire or metal. With the Pipe Vise you can bend or cut iron or lead pipe. The
you can do your own iron-work. \\ th the S * j j WO od, metal 0 r leather. The mechanism that drives the drill can also be used to drive a small
circular re s S aw > , P scratch-brusli )^)r^ S biiffing L< wheel. Ufe^he o vise in ?his outfit is especially sturdy and strong, and will grip firmly.
1,1 » » I
I »
C**K
7?
Hi
10
If you are interested in the Stewart Handy Worker cut out this
Coupon and send it to us.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD., 134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated pamphlet giving particulars of the
STEWART HANDY WORKER. Also name of nearest storekeeper
from whom I can purchase.
Name
Address ‘•' *'
STOREKEEPERS can obtain full particulars and price from any
Wholesale Ironmongery or Hardware House.
L=
A Strong, Practical Pipe Vise.
Excellent for Grinding: Tools and Cutlery.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD., 134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature i
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-G COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
r%
*v"
O
“Gordarth”: Know the kerosene-box trap
for catching padymelons? Take the end out of the
box, fit in again so as to slide up and down, con-
nect top of trap-door with bit of wire to another
stiff bit of wire pushed through the top of the box
at the other end. Attach a bit of sweet spud to
this wire and your trap’s set. If the first support
wire isn’t stiff you’ll need a stick in the middle as
support. I’ve caught hundreds of bandicoots by this
means in North Queensland, where the little beggars
are a pest to the cane-growers.
# # * *
“Eddyson”: At that time there was a
bitter feud between Donnybrook and Hillside. Donny-
brook, despite its name, was a haunt of Geordies,
whereas Hillside was almost entirely Cousin Jack;
and there has existed a keen rivalry and sour mutual
contempt between these two ends of Old England
from time immemorial. The antagonism Donnybrook
cherished and Hillside entertained was relieved by
vigorous, splenetic and uproarious games of quoits,
ending always in threats of bloodshed; it was re-
markable that, despite heated feelings, no blows had
ever been struck. Donnybrook had Ernie Spence
as its avowed champion, and Hillside accepted John
Kelynick—“they boy John!” —as its most destructive
citizen. The reputation of Kelynick, like that of
Spence, was founded entirely upon wind, and sus-
tained by an appropriate aspect. Kelynick looked
as if he could fight. Spence had the appearance of
one who would be a brutal enemy. It was super-
fluous in anyone else at Donnybrook to dream of
putting up a fist for the honor of the township while
Ernie Spence survived ; it would have been considered
presumption in any other citizen of Hillside to offer
battle in the interests of the district while John
Kelynick was available. So years passed without
any real fighting between those two mining centres,
although a casual visitor to either might have
imagined from the frenzy of argument when Donny-
brook miners and Hillside men met that blazing
battle and sudden death were daily occurrences. Then
came the great champion iron-quoit contest. The
match was one of the hottest and most profane
and vindictive ever played by these notorious
enemies. Hillside won, and then it was that Ernie
Spence, in the scalding agony of his district’s degra-
dation, and the flaming valor of 16 successive beers,
uttered words the grim significance of which went
home to every heart. “Aye, she’s a dagger, yon
Hillside,” said he, “but I’ll be walkin’ the stone
road out to the Ace o’ Spade at nine this night, and
I’ll bind mysel’ to punch the yead off every Hillside
K.G. I meet by the way!”. Ernie swore a great and
terrible oath binding him to that. The Hillside men
reoeived the challenge in silence. All eyes were on
John Kelynick. John turned and led his men away.
Ernie shouted a repetition of his challenge after
them. Throughout the long walk home, Kelynick,
marching at the head of his team, said never a
word. He had tea at his own house, and looking
out at eight beheld a little batch of men leaning
on the fence opposite. They were waiting for him.
There was no escape; he must go forth to do battle
against the black and abominable North. John strode
forth, clad only in boots, trousers and working
flannel —stripped for battle, in fact. He said nothing.
The men let him pass. They let him go on in silence.
Only when he was a quarter of a mile down the
moonlit, white quartz road did they move to follow.
The Ace of Spades mine was the half-way post
between Hillside and Donnybrook. Near here John
might expect to meet the redoubtable, the terrific
Ernie, awe-inspiring in his hairiness. John’s knees
began to tremble. He relented. He had been
betrayed into a fearful position. Away on
before over the apex of Orange Hill he discovered
the hordes of Donnybrook approaching. Par back
he knew the miners of Hillside were coming, diffi-
dently perhaps, reluctant to be drawn into actual
fighting, but bent upon witnessing the battle of
Titans. John Kelynick stopped in his tracks. Re-
pentance overwhelmed him. He rushed to a long,
large hollow log lying along Proctor’s dog-leg fence,
and going ignominiously on hands and knees pre-
cipitated himself into this shameful sanctuary.
Shuffling deep into the butt, his head collided with
something hard, something that uttered a yap of
pain and surprise. “What is it?” ventured John
Kelynick, after a sickening silence. “Lie still,
Johnnie Kelynick, ye damfool!” replied an aw r ed
voice. “It’s me!” The other man in the log was
Ernie Spence.
* * * *
“Acanthophis Antarct” : About three years
ago an adder 33Jin. long was brought to a Kempsey
(N.S.W.) chemist, and was measured and preserved
by him. The specimen’s length yesterday after being
taken from methylated spirits and formalin was
30in. An enterprising youth of 16 obtained this
specimen at West Kempsey, Macleay River.
THE ANTI-GAMBLING LAWS.
POLICEMAN XV (after a mad scrap with intoxicated chimney-cleanser): “It’s ahl very
well the Gov’ment fellin' as to put down shweeps. But look to what this one’s
done to me uniform!"
“Wart”: The Tasmanian blac-kfellow
carried his defunct relative about, too. Sometimes
the corpse was burnt and the ashes collected and
WANTED TO BE ON THE SAFE SIDE.
CUSTOMER: “And you say that if the suit wears out under twelve months you will
make me another one free?”
TAILOR : “That is our offer, sir.”
CUSTOMER: “And it don’t wear out, can I get my money lack?”
sewn up in an opossum-skin sachet, which was worn
round the neck; sometimes the cadaver was placed
in a hollow tree and left until the bones were clean,
when a selection would be made. The skull or the
thighbones seemed to be the popular choice. These
were humped around slung on a piece of kangaroo
sinew or human-hair string. The relics seemed to be
looked on as a charm able to ward off evil and cure
illness. The skull tied to the head would put the
kibosh on headache; other bones or the ashes were
rubbed on the part where there was any pain.
“Laverton”: Some years ago we loaded
three waggons, drawn by a traction-engine, from
Malcolm (W.A.) to Morgans. One was weighted
with 210 cases dynamite (six tons). On the trip
one case dropped off and the back waggon, with
eight tons of timber aboard, went over it and
squashed it. Only result, claim for one case dyna-
mite short-delivered. Here at Laverton I saw five
cases drop off a load on to a hard metal road. No
damage; but the publisher of our local sausage-
wrap, who witnessed the mishap with me, was the
most pronounced white Australian I ever met.
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: My friend the
War Cry correspondent in 'Palestine loves the Aus-
tralian horse as much as I do. Of him he tells
several stories in a late edition of the journal, but
there was one that I was particularly interested in
because it was about my moke: —
Its master had been wounded, and fell bleeding
from the saddle. The sagacious animal turned, and
picking his master up by the coat, he carried him
to a sheltered spot.
Unfortunately the Cry’s correspondent received only
part of the story. Not only did the sagacious animal
carry me to a place of safety, but after I had whis-
pered a few words of endearment in his ear he
kissed me, pulled open my first field dressing and
galloped to the regimental mess-tent for a bottle of
whisky.
“Bram” : There were some tidy sticks grow-
ing in Sydney when Captain Phillip stepped ashore.
The Sydney Gazette of August 7, 1803, states that
the military had been engaged in clearing their dis-
trict and had removed 32 stumps, many of “mon-
strous bulk.” One toothpick was nine yards in
circumference, and it employed 16 men six days
ia loosening and burying if in a pit dug alongside.
In turning it into the grave, 90 men gave a hand
and broke the two-inch tackle twice before the job
was done. I have seen some redwood, in perfect
condition, dug up from the old George-street ceme-
tery, after being in the ground for at least 90 years.
“Pick”; By blowing through the hollowed
hand in imitation of a steamboat siren and beating
upon the fist with the other hand, a strong-voiced
bushy sends a blast echoing for miles along the
ranges. This will drown all the cooees between
Whatsup and Digmeout.
* * * *
“Itan”: Are there two varieties of the
castor-oil plant ? The one which disputes so mueh
of the river-bed country of the western slopes and
plains with the innumerable burrs and thistles pro-
duces a small black seed. The kind which runs
riot on the coast is a much taller plant, with seeds
nearly the size of a bean. Has the western climate
developed a new variety ? Sheep out there eat the
seed if they can get it, though the spiny nodules
on the shells are as sharp as prickly-pear bristles.
The gathering of the berries ought to pay. Perhaps,
though, we would rather go on importing from Italy.
A TOO PERSONAL TOAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We stood about the fallen man....
Green told me how the fight began—
How Jubb was fat as he could stick;
Chin after chin in layers thick
Rolled from his face. But little Ned
Was “quite a harmless bloke,” they said.
Together in the bar-room these
Met to exchange felicities.
Ned called the drinks, and told the pub
How pleased he was at meeting Jubb.
A toast he ventured to propose,
When Jubb cut loose and punched his nose.
Just plugged him without more ado,
And furiously the maulies flew,
Till Ned, o’erborne by ruthless fat,
Was floored at length and pounded flat.
“A shame !” said Green. “What ’arm was in
Them friendly words he spoke, ‘Chin-chin’?”
VICTORIA.
Y.Z.
SAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sam the shingler, tough and tall,
Like the trees he loved to fall,
Keen to join the gory fray
Chucked his job one cloudy day.
There’s a silence, deep and strange,
Round the hut beneath the range;
Beans are poddin’, lettuce white,
Just as though for Sam’s delight.
Like a spectre his old slut
Haunts the long-deserted hut;
Neighbors feed her ev’ry day
Since her master went away.
Mignonette, forgetmenots,
W anly deck Sam’s garden plots ;
Jasmine blooms around the door
Milt as though their hearts were sore.
Since the dawn o’ yesterday
Sam’s shy slut has been away ;
Plovers scream across the plain
“Sam is limpin' home again!”
Limpin’ home with soul elate—
Hone “his - ’ bit, an’ saved a mate;
There’s a festoon ’cross the road
Where the mail coach drops its load.
VICTORIA.
RITA S.


(KPRESS
CIGARETTES
Perfect satisfaction
—a sense of infinite
joy—a feeling of
deep content All of
these joys and more
may be yours to-day.
You will find them
wrapped up in every
State Express Cigar-
ette waiting to be
unfolded by you at
your leisure.
No. m
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
10 for 6d.
Standard Weight NOT LESS than 10 for Sixpence.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.. LONDON, ENGLAND.
/
&
n"".i
H
«u
£
V
/y
05%
*
m
4K,
w
4
9
h
%
%
\
/
vi
rtli


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
Delightfully
Soothing
MtiW,
Vr
a
W if \
m
r
%
m
f.
Lv<
SBF
«
7/J/JT,
i^wi
16
§
I
iIUIUGL
Price:' 2/6 and 4/6
The Beit is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches at Sydney, N.S. W. 6c Wellinaton. N.Z.
“75” : Vera Pearce, Daisy Yates and John
Cannot, all with Mclntosh, are to figure in
this year’s Williamson panto. The entente
c-ordiale thus seems well-established. Mel-
bourne, by the way, is to have a second
panto, at Christmas, in the production of
which Bailey and Grant and the Taits will
combine. The Fullers will also stage one,
but theirs will open in Sydney.
Died the other week in England a very old
circus identity—J. H. Cooke. He was an
octogenarian, but he had grandfathers and
great-grandfathers in the circus business.
Also he had, presumably, sons and grand-
sons in the same industry. Six genera-
tions of Cookes have already kicked up a
dust in the Ring. Welby Cooke, who has
been with the Wirths for many years, is the
member of the clan that Australia knows.
“Fax” : Apropos the success of the Mel-
bourne girl, Gertrude Johnson, with the
little Italian Opera Co. which has ventured
far north. The male artists of the Gon-
salez crowd didn’t say sweet things about
their original lady colleagues from Italy, who
blocked the way to the introduction of
young Australian talent. They bitterly
complained that their success in Melbourne
and Sydney was heavily discounted by the
Gonsalez family connections. .
“L.”: So far from Birmingham’s play
“General John Regan” being “impossible”
and the representation “unconvincing,” I
have known a dispensary doctor on the West
Coast of Ireland who kept the place alive
by perpetrating hoaxes of a similar charac-
ter. In fact, it is only in lonely spots
such as the sea-coast of Connaught that
plots like this are possible. Further, this
sort of fun is necessary to counteract the
dreariness of life in such places. The play
is not only convincing to anyone who has
lived, as I have, in these places, but it is
remarkably true to life there. I enjoyed
“General John Regan.” and it is to me as
pleasurable a recollection as “Mrs. Wigffs
of the Cabbage Patch” and “In Missouri,
this last played by Nat Goodwin to almost
empty houses at Her Majesty’s in Mel-
bourne.
Maoriland’s official flicker-film _ censor,
.Toliffe, during the year examined 1902 films
containing 4.433.0G0ft. of cinograph. Thirty -
six of these photo-plays were hurled into the
waste-paper basket, and slices running from
15ft. to 750 ft. were removed from ~-i
others.
“De Oriel” : This swindle wants a punch
on the point. Some showmen are heading
their printing, “Patronise a returned sol-
dier.” I discovered three “warriors ’in one
case, and the only powder they had sum
was in the dressing-rooms.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Pardon an old
playgoer for differing from “Melb 1 •
3/11/T7) as to Lambert and Rogers m
Teazle and Sir Anthony. Lambert vas
best Sir Peter Australia ever saw; Kogerj
the best Sir Anthony. Lamberts Sir 1
was a country gentleman; that °f
rough country squire who had a bad
of daubing his face. Rut his Sir An .
was the true country baronet; Lambert *•
too polished. One of Rogers’s, best charac<-
was Mr. Ilardcastle in “She. Stoops to
quer.” Ask son Horace, the doyen 0
S. M. Herald staff.
“Bats”: A “Poverty Point” historian 1 (B.
25./10/’l7) stated that Harry Jewett is »
remembered by the part of the Sp
Geo. Rignold’s production of l' ie , v ; n
King.” No. Rignold produced the pay
November, 1892, and Jewett had
America some months previous.
Edward Sass who played the Spidei.
Australia’s old friend Edward Laim J
now just the touring manager in J 5l , nce ”
that great Yankee bluff, the lat
picture play. . j|- f
“8.J.": One of the strangest literary pa> T
nerships is that of Horace Hodg ,
Wigney Percy val, authors, of Gi'u W
part-authors of “Sunday. Both
and were here together years ago |j, e
son Barrett, but for some time Hoag old)
is about 60 and Percyval is nea • w pjte
has been acting in the J. Bull Col tjoned 1“
his literary partner has been * , it .
the U S.A. They have collaborated
ing plays while separated by in -wjc-
They exchange ideas regarding p dencPi
ters, titles and so forth by co sU cceed
and, working independently, foffether-
in'piecing their individual eff gor .
Nobody who knows them and „ lt j!° COIC pIetPC I
prised to hear that “Grumpy . 1 Maying
by cable. Hodges, by the way, . ers are
“Grumpy” (from which the P® l iu the
said to have made £30,000) on c tranS port
English provinces, and, owing w set
difficulties, is getting along . ckc ] o th3,
scenes, using only a couple of
THE POINT OF DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A wayward and a wandering life
I've always lived, but up to now
I have not met with man and wife
Who fostered up and fed on strife
And gloried in a thund’ring row
Like Horace Angler and his frau.
They fought at breakfast and at noon,
They argued fiercely over tea,
They barged and blared from moon to moon
And bickered to one awful tune.
The very height they seemed to me
Of wedded infelicity.
Yet Horace Angler oft declared
He and his missus were indeed
Most happily and wisely paired.
Then ostentatiously he aired
The thousand and one points of creed
On which the couple were agreed.
They liked their mutton cooked one way
Had mutual friendships choice and few •
Re politics and preachers they
Were in accord. But in his day
He'd Hamlet played. Alas! ’tis true—
His wife had acted Hamlet, too.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Padjud”: The practice of charging for
the address and signature on telegrams was
introduced to cut down the ridiculous frills
that used to be appended. With private
firms it acted like magic, and single-word
“sigs.” became fashionable; but Government
departments still wobble along in the old
way. Some scores of telegrams recently sent
by the Commonwealth Taxation Department
were signed like this: “The Deputy Federal
Commissioner of Taxation, Warwick Build-
ings, Hamilton-street, Sydney”—ll words
where three would have been ample. The
rigmarole was unnecessarily repeated on
the back of every message with a name
“per” some bright office boy. The messages
were very unimportant; postcards would
have done.
. » * »
“Dinkum”: If it’s boots, I and every other
dinknm Anzie will back our home-mades
against the Tommies’ envelopes every day in
the week. I have worn both, through mud
and rain and on the cobbled roads of
France and Flanders, and find there is abso-
lutely no comparison between the Austra-
lian and English article for length of ser-
vice, comfort or damp-proof qualities, and
it is unnecessary to mention appearance.
Overcoats? The Tommy’s is certainly a
lot heavier than ours, but not as warm. The
English material is coarse, rough and hairy,
while ours is closely-woven, smooth and light.
The one I am wearing has been through
Egypt, Gallipoli and 11 months of France
(no Horseferry-toad or Headquarters job
in the lot), and it looks as well as the day
it was issued. Incidentally, I have noticed
most of the complaints about the Australian
kit come from Tommies who are drawing
Australian pay.
♦ * * *
“Peri Winkle”: A long-cherished fallacy
that acclimatised Hunter River lucerne
when sown under favorable conditions is
good for 20 years of life has been exploded
iu the Northern Vic. irrigation areas. Here
settlers are, after six years, largely resowing
their paddocks, the old crop having petered
out or degenerated into stalky, scattered,
poor-producing plants. A lot of the current
supply of seed is suspected of being im-
ported from Asia and sold as —well, what-
ever you like to call it. By the same token
ITovence lucerne seed can scarcely be arriv-
ing just now, yet there’s no shortage. Who's
on the job?
• * * *
“Agricola”: A friend of mine makes_ a
crust and beer to soak it in by catching
parrots. He has just returned from his
rounds among the red gums south of the
Grampians, where he was noting the trees
that held nests. He reckons on taking over
500 young birds, for which he will receive
Gs. a piece. His brother is doing something
similar. There must be a lot of lonely old
maids craving for parrots.
* * * *
“Azack”: A list was published in The
Bulletin recently showing Government
Botanist Maiden’s classification of the 20
worst weeds in the Ma State. Another such
list was published by the same author in
1895. Here are the two side by side :—•
1895. 1917.
Bathurst-burr Bathurst-burr
Sweetbriar Blackberry
Lantana Star-thistle
Prickly-pear Noogoora-burr
Star-thistle Sweetbriar
Cockspur Black or spear thistle
Saffron Paterson’s curse *
Black or spear thistle Saffron
Capeweed Capeweed
Stinkwort Lantana
Sorrel Yellow-poppv
Dock Water hyacinth
Smartweed Thorn apple
Purple-top Stinkwort
Corn Cromwell Tree tobacco
Yellow poppy St. John’s wort
Mallow-weed Dye-berry
Thorn apple Narrawa-burr
Nut grass Castor-oil plant
Wild oats Cockspur
It will be noted that the Bathurst-burr re-
tains its old position in the first place. Nine
new weeds have made their appearance in
the 22 years; the worst are the common
blackberry, Paterson’s curse and the water
hyacinth. Now the blackberry is the best
feed that can be found for goats ; so why not
increase the herds, especially the Angora?
The animals will not only, clear the land, but
give a good return for the mohair which
they grow. I don’t know anything that we
could do with Paterson's curse; but with
regard to the water hyacinth, why not util-
ise it for the manufacture of rope, twine,
matting, sacks, etc., as has been done in
Cochin-China and Cambodia? The Commer-
cial Commissioner for the Ma State in Asia,
in his report last year, suggested this; but
the Government replied that the cost of labor
in this country was too great. That diffi-
culty might be overtopped by a national
tariff wall; but think of the exertion required
to erect it!
* * * *
The new Food Orders in England are
giving rise to some strange crimes. One
shopkeeper was hauled up for “having
charged more than lfd. per lb. for potatoes” ;
but he claimed that they were for seed and
not food, and got off. Another wag fined £2
for having sold small tarts with sugar-
tracing on the top. He urged that the goose-
berries in the tart need sugar, but was told
that he should have mixed it with them as
food, and not used it as an ornament. A
third was charged with selling a ham sand-
wich after shop-closing hours, the same not
being “freshly cooked meat,” which one can
sell. His lawyer urged that as it was per-
fectly lawful to sell a. beef sandwich, to bar
the ham would be ridiculous. The police
claimed, however, that every sandwich
becomes criminal the moment it is taken out-
side the shop-door, though you can eat on
the premises to any extent; and the puzzled
magistrates told the accused to pay the costs
and go away.
• * * *
Albury has a. record in the way of grave-
stones. A citizen who lost his wife has kept
her memory green by having her photograph,
in evening-dress, let in on the surface of the
stone under a sheet of glass.
* » * *
“Bam”: “Inkwage” (B. 25/10/’l7) says
that if lie had his time again he would
clamor to be started as a dentist. A full
upper and lower set of teeth costs in actual
material about 30s. The retail price is in
the region of £8 Bs. But the teeth take some
making. The impression has to be taken.
The correct relationship between the upper
and lower jaws has to be ascertained. The
denture has to be modelled in wax and the
teeth articulated. The wax model has to be
placed in plaster of paris, the wax boiled out
and rubber packed in its place. The rubber
has to be vulcanised for two hours and then
taken out of the plaster. The result is a
dull, rough mass of hard rubber. Filing,
shaping, scraping, sandpapering and polish-
ing turn out the finished article. The den-
tist gets about £6 10s. for his labor and pro-
fessional skill. A man goes to the doctor
for advice a few times and gets an account
for £5 ss. Materials and labor, nil; pro-
fessional skill, £5 ss. I’m a dentist, but I’d
rather be a doctor. I don’t know any
doctors who would rather be dentists.
* *• * *
“Dikast”: Talking of queer trades (B.
25/10/’l7), there is a flourishing Yank in-
dustry which might be acclimatised to the
profit of caricaturists who haven’t climbed
so far up the ladder as David Low. A good
many American black-and-white artists coin
dollars at it. Customers are asked to send a
clear photograph, for caricature, of them-
selves or their friends. The charge for head-
and-shoulder pictures is 30 cents (Is. 3d.)
and for full-lengths 50c. (2s. Id.). To help
the artist, except when he is on a full figure,
the portrait should be accompanied by a
statement of physical peculiarities and per-
sonn] hobbies. A cute idea—for vanity is a
rich field.
* * * *
“5.0. H.”; Westralia has awakened from
its slumber and. unless it drops back on the
pillow, it should yet make something worth
while of its timber resources. On show at
Perth Royal was an attractive villa built
by Millar’s Timber Co. —jarrah right
through, even the roof and ridging. An
accompanying lOOOgal. tank was made of
the same wood. The building has been given
a fair test. It was exposed all the
winter, and the 40in. of rain we have
had didn’t do it any harm. Tables
and numerous other articles of furniture
were also on show, and were greatly ad-
mired. Anything down to 30 years ago the
bulk of the timber in most of the houses
built in Australia was hardwood. Then
the ease with which the soft stuff was
worked up led to the displacement of our
own good material. But machinery has
been so improved that the old reason for
using the softwoods no longer exists.
* * * *
“Kopai”: If, as a community, we were
half as self-respecting and pious as we
flatter ourselves that we are, we should be
looking behind the scenes of more businesses
than the one “P.X.” mentions (B.
18/10/’l7). There are in every suburb
dozens of nondescript little concerns re-
dundant to the population and necessities of
the place. Some, of course, are “pocket-
money” shops, financed out of the salaries
of well-paid artisans or civil servants, and
kept by their wives to the disadvantage of
the legitimate trader. Socially they are
immoral enough ; but there are others more
actively so. Most barber-tobacconists run
sweeps or do race-tipping and book-making
as sidelines, and that it is profitable is
shown by the swarm of these dens in every
suburb. Then there are the soft-drink and
the “frilly” shops. No man who has had any
experience of business could be persuaded
that these places can be made to pay on the
legitimate business set forth on the shop
windows. What is their sideline? Some one
may guess, but—the others !
* * * *
“E.W.”: When George Swinburne, who
is now seeking to get into Yic. State politics
again, was a Minister, a citizen of Sunbury
worked a good point on him at a deputation
that asked for a water supply. At the
time Sunbury’s water was carted from a
handy creek. This citizen, who was an en-
thusiastic _ rose-grower, said that one sum-
mer morning his daughter asked him if the
coffee had not tasted better during the last
few days. He admitted that, though it was
still not too good, it had been a bit better.
“Ah,” she said, “I haven’t been using the
ordinary water; I’m taking it out of the
cask at the back.” “It was true enough.”
said the householder—“she had been using
the liquid manure I had there for my roses.”
BEATING THE METER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Billy Burrumbeet came down
To be our city rouseabout
There was one only thing in town
That put the colored brother out.
The water-tap was just a spring ;
The trams were ran by “debbils” grand ;
But gaslight—well, here was a thing
No simple soul could understand.
“How that one come up make it light
Mine wonder!” And the trick to learn
He lit the jets by day and night,
And sat and grinned to see them burn.
The family simply fell on him.
We fiercely smote him hip and thigh,
Explaining with expletives grim:
“This plenty light mine have to buy!”
The meter was described. Next day
We found black Billy in the hall
With half a dozen jets in play.
He came responsive to the call.
He pointed out the meter’s face,
Well covered with a sack. Said he:
“Mine light ’em all belonga place.
That plurry feller no more see!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


mm
V!
3L
: :
3
m
;
40
y.
m
mm
m;
'
II
I-.'. \
fesS
?i mm mm
W«M» 1 '■»»■ —'M * «r... IIMWt , B>t
aasiarTfflßiiai.Ts
»,IW.«>i:»' > »»».
J*
' -sar-
* •
t
i ■
IJ i ’ I
J-
UU
ul Ul iiit lU.
txrfcEtS
J nU.
«=*
i l ,
' *
ni
-rv-i.
...
z}'S .T*
•.*-
J’l I.
I • 5
I i
£
> t | |
■ y
t-.j
fc
*SsJa
"i
A NEW ERA IN LIGHTING!
A few of its applications are for the illumination of the following
PUBLIC BUILDINGS ADVERTISING HOARDINGS
CLOCK TOWERS CONSTRUCTION WORK
COMMERCIAL HOUSES STATUES
Briefly, a Flood Lighting Projector consists of a parabolic reflector
M°A U 7n a\ n 3 We D therp - r ° of , c . asin S and arranged to take a focus type
MAZ.UA Lamp. By using this apparatus a beam of light is projected
°u the . sur . face . to . be .illuminated. Because the light is concentrated
where the illumination is desired, this method is most economical in
operation and greatly reduces the initial expense of lighting installation,
whilst the effect is singularly spectacular and effective.
The reflector consists of a three-zone silver-plated glass mirror.
For full particulars on this subject communicate with
General Electric-G
Wentworth Ay Sydney. O? of Queen t Little Collins StMelbourne.


A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, pure
Silver-plated mounts, fancy floral
china, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ adaptable
Bottle or Glass Holder,
pure silver-plated, 4/6.
A.
Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure
plated mounts, floral china bowl, 25/-
ALL
orders
p;st
FREE.
A. Saunders’ 4-cup Egg Frame and
Spoons, pure silver-plated, gilt-lined
cups and spoons, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure silver-
plated, gilt-lined.
5in., 10/6. 6in.,
12/6. Tin., 13/6.
Handsome Table
Appointments.
M’5
/ > = - ; f ; •
ESS
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Saur" Doat, pure
silver-plated, A1 quality, £4/4/»
A. Saunders’ folding Biscuit Box, Al quality, pure
silver-plated on nickel silver, fluted “Shell” design,
£5/12/6. Gilt-lined, £6/6/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-15 George Street
(OppositeV
Railway I
Station '>
Sydney
_A. Saunders’ Tantalus
Spirit Frame, pure silver-
plated, A1 quality, hob-
nail cut-glass bottle, £5.
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle, pure
silver-plated, A1 quality, engraved
Butterfly design, £2/12/6.
Send for
Latest
Illustrated
Catalogue.
It’s Free.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure silver-plated nickel
silver, A1 quality, hand-pierccd and embossed,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Specimen
Tube, pure Silver-
plated, crystal fluted
glass, 12/6 pair.
Special value.
A. Saunders’ Suear and Cream Stand,
pure silver-plated frame, fancy china
bowls, 12/6.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
Sunburn—lnsect Bites—Chafed Skin.
In any of these cases something to ease the soreness and
irritation is wanted promptly, and it is so soothing to apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
An excellent healing antiseptic preparation, useful at any time for
cuts, burns, scratches, and skin ailments generally.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester England.
BOOKS AT THE BIG BOOK STORE.
No Matter What Book You Want I’ve Got It.
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated
with over 50 engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/0 posted. Merrie England, Bd. llow
to Get Rich, 1/- posted. De Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Donnelly’s
Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, 1/3. llow to Dance, 1/-
posted. llow to Wrestle, 1/3. Moll Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, 1/2
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each
posted. Educating tiie llorse, 1/-. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, 1/3 posted. llow to Strengthen the Memory, 1/1. Bell’s
Standard Elocutionist, latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Universe, lOd.;
and all the Rational Fress Reprints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket Writing Explained, 1/6.
Mechanics’ Workshop llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-. Adven-
tures of A Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. Fortune-Telling by
Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/7. Tiie Yoke, bv Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/3. Beauty’s Secrets, post
free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s
Science of Life, 12/6. Australian Miner’s Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3/9. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price
1/-, posted 1/3. How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 4/- posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s
Freemasonry, 4/3 poste Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History of tiie Bod
(Flagellations and the Flagellants), scarce, 12/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd. Tiie Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and
1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. Britain for the British, 9d. How to Bead
Faces, 1/6. How to Train for all Sports, 1/3. Diseases c Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photography Self-taught. 1/3. How to
Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins, 1/3 posted.
House Painting & Papering, 3/3. Prof. Fowler’s- Human Science. 12/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6. SEND A TRIAL ORDER TO-DAY.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human Nature as
it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thousand questions that occur to
the minds of young and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting their
phj sician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning
marriage, which makes it a very superior guide to the action of men and women
both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright future,
and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with' the
information embraced in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISI ACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged, clotli-covered
rvo^ hIS great work - It; wi]l be posted to ANY address for TEA
MlllvLliSGS.
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this Advt-
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sei\t Anywhere for* the AsKing.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY. ANY BOOK
advertised elsewhere SENT. •
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 67 & 69 Market St. Sydney (only)-


SUMMER DIET MISTAKES
In summer many people lose appetite and
from this draw conclusions that are not
medically sound. Some say that in sum-
mer the body does not require so many meals;
but this is wrong.
Certainly the body does not require so
many elements that create heat, but it does
require as many energy-giving elements, and
cannot find these in the unsubstantial meals
usually partaken of with the idea of "keep-
ing cool.’’
Then the common mistake of taking too
many cold "gassy" and acid drinks also sets
up trouble. They distend the stomach,
dilute the digestive juices and provide no
help for making rich blood ; exhaustion, lack
of appetite and indigestion are bound to
follow. Your stomach needs new blood
summer or winter, and the best method of
renewing the blood and strengthening the
stomach and digestion is by taking Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. These
pills combat the poisons in the blood and
create new blood. By this natural process
you remedy your debility and restore your
appetite, the system being toned up and the
overworked nerves invigorated.
Free Booklet. "What to Eat and How to
Eat.” will be sent on request by the Pr.
Williams’ Medicine Co.. Box 594 G.P.0..
Sydney,— Advt.
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-eriinder designs. 2-
to SO-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
AVhen writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
Caille Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
HORLICK’S
MALTED I
MILK
Next time you feel
fagged, try a glass of
Horlick's Malted
Milk. You will feel
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Horlick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick’s at
the Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent
on receipt of 2d. in
stamps to Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 26
J amieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
a
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of* the business*
Officesj _4-4 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
€6sll. —Soldier’s
Combination Knife,
Fork and Spoon, in
Leather Case.
Price 8/6.
STEWART DAWSON'S,
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Stewart Dawson’s well deserve their reputation as
Headquarters for Soldiers’ Gifts. We illustrate a few
items from our vast assortment, and invite Soldiers and
Soldiers’ Friends to
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
.
Soldier's Unbreakable
Mirror, in Leatherette
Case. Price 2/6.
Large Size, 3/6."
P37lB.—Pocket Leather Photo
Case, C. de V. size.
Price 5/6.
ORDERS BY POST RECEIVE IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
CARTRIDGES
For Tour Pistol or Revolver^
m
>
LN
ffr
ft
0
* S
&
Regardless of tte make of your arm, i
Remington UMG pistol and revolver car-
tridges give you maximum results. v Tkey func-
tion an automatic perfectly and are clean and
accurate. Try tkem. Catalogue upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT. Manager '
Box 686, Melbourne
§
§
m
Mmwm
m-
W
m
M m M,
m 4m?
IrlStllMfl ,%p if '(I
iiM4M Iff 4i
1 IVIt
Keep the
home fires
Gives alasting
lather and a
smooth shave
m
Wi
mmm
YiH*
w
Guaranteed
not to dru
on the Face
From all Chemists & Stores.
Agents:
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
WEAR
ABBEY SHOES
' —the footwear that is liigliest-
grade. in QUALITY, DESIGN and
FINISH.
Our shoes are made in half and
full sizes, and in three fittings—
narrow, medium and wide. Thus
you are assured perfection of fit
and the utmost comfort.
We illustrate a special Patent Kid
Button Boot, with Perforated
Golosh and Fawn Cloth Legs.
Price - 50|-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY
313 George Street*
Between 0.P.0. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street.
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne
qUEENSLAM
inejianqioTfirromise
mil
1
=*agx
r ‘a;
;.b
sVame.
Address
QUE£nSLAHD //V TcLL/C£/»C£
& TOUAtfST BUMEAC/. ffWSSA/VE
A Book of
192 Pages
C L. L. e D
'POCKET
QUEENSLAND’
PROFUSELV
illustrated.
Telling all about - rtx
Millions of Acres
of fitrhle land for
intending aeHTers
will besenfyou
by filling io fhe
Coupon below.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.


[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, John
Barr and K. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
RENEW YOUR STRENGTH BY
TAKING PHOSPHATE.
RESTORATIVE OF VIGOR AND
VITALITY.
The condition of the man or woman who
has lost his or her strength is pitiable, for.
above all, it is strength that makes life worth
living and renders possißle the full enjoy-
ment of all that life offers. Illlness, worry
or anxiety may have sapped your vitality
and robbed you of your strength, or old age
may be responsible for tissue wastage and
consequent loss of power, but whatever the
cause it is possible for you to renew your
strength, to regain the vigorous health which
is your birthright, and to defy the advance
of old age by simply furnishing your system
with bitro-phosphate. This product is natural
to the human body ; it is present in abun-
dance in vigorous youth, but in later life, or
in consequence of illness or excesses, the
quantity is reduced, and its reduction is
marked by such symptoms as weakness, de-
pression, insomnia, debility, languor, irrita-
bility, inability to withstand mental or physi-
cal strain, etc., and, noting one or more of
these symptoms, you should at once com-
mence taking this restorative bitro-phosphate
treatment. No difficulty should be experi-
enced in obtaining the treatment, for bitro-
phosphate is now stocked by practically all
liigh-class chemists in the form of small com-
pressed tablets. The desired results are ob-
tained in practically every case, and you do
not have to wait long for proof that bitro-
phosphate is doing you good.— Advt.
mill
llltllH
I
***>
4$
*
n
'ill
liX't
'XI
IllU
inn
'711!
Illl'.l
Humanity Demands and Paramount Answers with PARAMOUNT PICTURES.
No two minds ever think alike. But all humanity demands interest and entertainment in its “paid for” recreations.
COMING.
GEO. M. COHAN
in “BROADWAY JONES.”
DOUG. FAIRBANKS
in “IN AGAIN—OUT AGAIN.”
Thus Paramount Pictures, with their intense dramatic stories that hold the interest
beautiful settings and locations that hold the eye—and a psychology the unravelling of
which interests the mind, aim at the seemingly possible—productions that will satisfy
everyone—and they get there ! ‘ *
Do you see Paramount Pictures at your Theatre? If not, ask the manacer whv v«.>
name f ,°PAB a AMO a iJNT ntitled ThPrP iS ° nly ° ne best in Moti « n Pleture's-their
COMING
MARY PICKFORD
in “THE LITTLE AMERICAN.”
BILLY BURKE
in “THE MYSTERIOUS MISS
TERRY.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
Relic Peacock and his discredited party
will be re-established in office by the forces
of Anti-Conscriptionism. Elmslie, leader
of the local Labor party, announced himself
as an advocate of “No” and one after the
Tuner Laborites have come in to support him
with weird and occasionally wicked reasons
why the country should help Germany and
abandon Billjim. While the Anti-Conscrip-
tionists talk like this, and Labor is made to
appear as a Party playing the Enemy game,
Peacock and Co. can jjet along comfortably
with a mere stick-to-office policy.
It ought to be plain enough by this time
that the referendum and Party Government
can’t run respectably in double harness.
Either one or other must go—and it
shouldn’t be the referendum if we intend to
hang on to popular government. Twelve
months ago there was a referendum on Con-
scription, and Conscription went down. But
almost immediately thereafter there was a
general election, run on strict party lines,
and then a crowd was returned which pro-
ceeded to carry out a policy that it had
declared was rotten to the core. Its reputa-
tion wasn’t at stake if the voluntary system
SOMEWHERE A VOICE IS CALLING.
failed. The Labor party’s was; but the
Labor party never had a look in.. This is
like the owner of Westcourt making dead-
sure that his horse could win the Cup and
then handing over the job of training and
riding it to a party which had heavily backed
Firefly. In racing we wouldn’t expect any-
body to be so mad; but, then, racing is a
serious matter.
With a little more imagination at the
Treasury something would long ago have
been done in the matter of selling annuities;
and if the success of Tatt.’s sweeps during
the last few weeks doesn’t suggest to the
Government that millions more could be
got by pooling the interest and dividing it
every three months in prizes, then the
Government is quite hopeless.
Price, member of the N. S. Wales Assem-
bly for Gloucester, lately fired out of his
seat by resolution of the Chamber for bring-
ing reckless charges against Minister for
Lands Ashford, has been fired back by a
thumping majority at a by-election. Where-
fore the “honor and dignity of Parliament”
looks a bit more out of repair than before
and the perfume surrounding at least one of
the transactions about which Price wagged
an unconvincing tongue is stronger than
ever. The most that can be made by Ash-
ford out of the incident is a firm decision to
let the next individual who tumbles into the
soup before a Royal Commission stay there.
John Grice, chairman of the National
Bank, who speaks with as much authority
as any financier in Melbourne, lines up now
with Tiie Bulletin and predicts trouble
if any more War loans are issued “free of
income tax.” The plan is bad always and
worse than usual now that loans are piling
up with a speed that we never dreamed of a
few years ago; and the rate of interest
[M. Paul, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
BULLOCKY BILL AND THE MOTOR-
CAR.
AUSTRALIA: “You'll never get her through
by talkin', Mister. Why don't you get
out of the way and let someone that
understands motors drive her?”
makes matters worse. It was not of so
much consequence when a loan of a million
or two at p.c. was issued free of tax;
but now, when 80 millions have been raised
in Australia within a few months at 4J per
cent., and many more millions yet
must be raised, an intolerable burden will
be thrown upon all other investments if
we continue the absurd practice. Further,
the plan is bad because, owing to our system
of graduated taxation, the concession means
more to the wealthy man with a large tax-
able income than to the little man, though
the latter may be applying for much more
in proportion to his means. And finally it
is bad because the borrower ought to know
what a loan is costing him ; and the Com-
monwealth can’t know when it gives this
concession. For instance, when the first
War loan was issued it was not contem-
plated that the struggle would last so long
or cost so much, which means that the
Government had no idea it was giving away
so much. The system is bad in principle,
unbusinesslike and a serious menace to
future Australian industry.
Tasmania, which has considered more ex-
perimental social legislation than any other
State, is going soon to wag its tongue over
another instalment. During the hearing of
a recent “dirty” case at Launceston Judge
Ewing told all hands that he was prepar-
ing a Bill whereby men who could not
restrain their passions would be rendered
innocuous. Since then, the Womens Health
Ass. has waited on the Attorney-General at
Hobart and shrilled its applause; also it
demanded that when girls or women are
being tried, an equal number of women and
men should be on the jury. Details are not
fixed; but the Speck’s legislation is certainly
going to move that way.
“Hobson”: I hear talk that the
owner of firearms is to be taxed.
What sort of old women have we
in Parliament if they dream of
penalising young Australia for
going in for the most useful kind
of sport it possibly could? In the
country districts nearly every boy
who is a boy learns to handle a
rifle, and thousands of them are
now at the Front and don't shut
their eyes when they press the
trigger. About four or five years
ago my place was getting over-run
with wallabies and I gave two lads
3d. a scalp for shooting them.
They also got the skins and were
making good money at it. They
cleared the place of the pest, any-
how. These boys are now in
France, and some months ago one
of them was doing wonderful things
as a sniper. Such are the lads who would be
taxed for unconsciously preparing themselves
as defenders of their country.
Having issued a regulation authorising
the inspection of the
bank-books and other
documents and papers
of alien enemies,
whether naturalised or
not, Hughes and
Pearce probably think
they have done all
that is necessary to
find out all about the
irregular expenditure
of the sinews of war.
They haven’t! Per-
sons of alien birth are
not the only suspects
now. There are others
—Australian-born per-
sons of German par-
entage. And the best
test of their loyalty
is their relationship
with the Fatherland
before the war. Some
speak the guttural,
polysyllabic tongue
among themselves and
used to receive Ger-
man papers regularly ;
others can only speak
English and, naturally,
saw no German litera-
ture. The swankers
who sang “Deutsch-
land fiber Alles” and
swizzled lager with
“Hoch der Tag” in the
clubhouse when the
Lusitania was sunk
weren’t all German-
born by any means.
Some of them had been
educated in the Ger-
man schools which
foolish Governments
allowed and still
allow ! —to flourish in Australia.
Attorney-Gen. Davey Hall took the lead in
chasing Price out of the N. S. Wales Assem-
bly ; and he ought to have known better. It
very rarely happens that a member who is
thrown out for trying (as he always puts it)
to keep public life clean, doesn’t get back.
Nine times out of 10, when these charges
are made, there has been loose administra-
tion ; and the public is always inclined to
throw an extra bone to a member who makes
a noise like a watchdog, even if he occasion-
ally barks furiously at a friend.
The Censorship has been used shamefully ;
but the people have a lot to blame them-
selves for. And the press has to carry a
load of responsibility as well. The Censor-
ship hasn’t, for example, been responsible
for the gibes that have been fastened on to
every important bit of news from German
sources, or for the newspaper headings
which have gone ahead and scoffed in ad-
vance at every cabled item that referred to
German success. Early in the proceedings
the public showed what it wanted : an Eng-
lish _ newspaper that dared to reflect on
British leadership and British “successes”
which were found out afterwards to be
ghastly failures was publicly burned. The
people—those, anyway, who make most
noise—wanted their legs pulled; and, bad
and all as the Censorship has been, it isn’t
to be held wholly responsible for the leg-
pulling.
The most humorous comment on Hughes’*
scheme for the “organising” of trade by «,!
Commonwealth Government came from t
Defence Department on the day the S re<n
programme was unfolded. The 'Department
briefly announced that no more condolences
would be sent by wire, because tele-rams
WITHOUT DOUBT.
MAJOR PEPPER: “And if your company were
to exhaust their ammunition what order
would you give ?”
Lieut. Wii.mot Sapp: “Eh! Cease fiali!”
were too often bungled. It was beautiful
testimony to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment's capacity for organisation.
Verily the war has capsized our ideals and
upended our habits. The coalminers of
Jumbunna (Vic.) have been on strike since
the beginning of August—originally out of
alleged sympathy with the N. S. Wales time-
card objectors, but latterly owing to the
mine directors’ refusal to reinstate two
extra-obstreperous agitators. They are
brothers, and their name is Wy Hoon!
At Passchendaele Ridge, where the Cana-
dians did so splendidly, the completed work
of thousands of men and guns depended at
last on the efforts of two or three little,
desperate groups who hung on harder than
death and silenced the remaining few Hun
strongholds. There is always a last blow
that wins a battle, wherefore the last fresh
reinforcement may win a campaign.
ENGLAND Y T ET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She’s England yet! The nations never knew her;
Or, if they did, were ready to forget.
She made new worlds that paid no homage to her,
Because she called for none as for a debt.
The bullying curs who deemed all nations craven.
And that her star of destiny had set,
Were sure that she would seek a coward’s haven—-
They tempted her, and found her England yet!
We learn our England, and we soon forget,
To learn again that she is England yet.
They watched Britannia ever looking forward,
But could not see the things her children saw.
They marked in Southern seas her boats pull shore-
ward,
But only saw the eyeglass, heard the “haw” !
In tents, and bungalows, and outpost stations,
Thin white men ruled for her, unseen, unheard,
Till millions of her races and her nations
Were ready to obey her at a word.
We learn our England, and in peace forget,
To learn in storm that she is England yet.
She’s England yet! By Riga’s fatal marshes,
And where the distance reddens on the sands,
And in the land where admiration harsh is,
They never doubted English hearts and hands.
So says her Gallic ally, keen and clever:
“She loses every battle save the last” ;
And where they sing “The Maple Leaf for Ever!”
Their faith in England grows more firm and fast.
We learn in storm, in safety we forget;
To learn again in storm she’s England yet.
She’s England yet; and men shall doubt no longer,
And mourn no longer for what she has been.
She’ll be a greater England and a stronger—
And better England than the world has seen.
Sons of our own who know no king’s regalia,
Nor give a thought to courts that fume and fret
Are fighting for her, fighting for Australia,
And blasphemously hail her “England Yet!”
She's England yet, with little to regret—
Ay, more than ever, she’ll be England yet!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
STAND BY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The truth isn’t pretty, but let us thank God
For a glimpse of the rocks through the mist;
Lie-blinded we’ve sailed into bays that seem odd,
And our wake has a sinister twist.
Don’t panic or shout, for we’ve got to get out,
And we’ll do it —-or else we shall die!
No engines and screw with a boat-rushing crew
Can save ship and cargo. Stand by!
N.SOV.
SIGNALMAN.


The ESTEY PLAYER PIANO.
A most delightful instrument.
Open for playing
with music rolls.
We are Sole Agents for
CHAPPELL,
BEHNING,
PLAYOTONE,
AUTOTONE,
ESTEY and
VICTOR
Player Pianos.
HAVE YOU A SELDOM-USED
PIANO IN YOUR HOME?
Is 14 ‘‘ s . ilent,, and deteriorating for want of use?
rernaps it is waiting now for someone to play it.
B °° d of letting it stand idle month
alter month ?
Why not obtain a PALING PLAYER PIANO
instead of it? We will taKe the silent Piano as part
payment.
y° u will have the most enjoyable and
entertaining instrument you can purchase.
No need then to wait on anyone to play for you—
you can do much better than that. You can play your-
sell, and enjoy your music just as often as you liKe.
Please write to us and we shall be pleased to send
you full particulars, and will value your present
* iano free of charge.
Wll> L. n ot come in to-day and hear our superb
Player Pianos? They are the very best
obtainable at the price. Easy Terms.
value
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle and Lismore.
SI
'L
£
W&L
Welding' 18in. diameter Steel Cas
Main at Newcastle, N.S W.,
by Mesare. Stewarts
& Lloyds. — ■— 'Zr4
w
11
5
NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS,
COG WHEELS, etc.
THE EXPERT. To-day is the day of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
—who is thorOL'gn efficient and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
be conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship and for economy
THE EiYGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxv-Aeetvlene process is not abreast of the times • he is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence. aureasi oi me limes, ne is
th fiu ? rld fi t 0;i da ' V the ox -';; Acetyk ' n f P r ° cess is the la test scientific addition to every engineering
workshop, which, fitted with this process, has an advantage over the opposition impossible to estimate It is simple
nr tin° vf I® : PnCe is a " d the P lant « portable. Whether the broken parts require to be cut
01 welded at the bench or by the roadside is of no consequence. 4 10 De LUt
A " y . work . of J ro " or Steel welding or cutting can be carried out with Oxv-Acetvlene. It is revolutionising
Er '^ in a ee " , trade - Br o ke n Parts that once were useless can now be successfully 'welded and made new
m L u’" Vif /natter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
01 pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
oKI AH Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process will make new again:—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels Pipes
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Kevwavs in Shafts
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published by Charles Griffin &' Co., London, states:
Within the last few years welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-acetylene blow-
pipes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.,
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents— MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street,
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
/;>*■
•>
s»*®i .V J
■•
: '
4 > * * *
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Aoetylene Works, Flinders Street,
Adelaide.


Should the Russian eruption now raging
not throw up in its lava a stable Ministry
loyal to the Allies, well, America’s worth 10
Enssias, anyway, opineth that royal spirit
King George IV r . topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
Shaving with an old-fashioned
razor is nothing but a habit.
Once try a Gillette and you
would not go back to the old
style for ten times its cost. The
22
STROPPING NO HI
makes shaving easier, more
comfortable and cheaper.
Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street.
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
THRffiAPOINT
MESH
MARKED.
DISTANCE
APPROACHINS
k PUTTING.
MADE BY THE
WORTHINGTON
BALL CO.
Three-point Green 31dwt. sinks.
Three-point Orange 29dwt. sinks.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
Sold by the Leading Sports Depots
and Professionals throughout Australia.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA (Wholesale only) ■
R.S.COUCHE&CO.
SYDNEY:
321, PITT STREET.
MELBOURNE:
FUNDERS tANE*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and C6OLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfliTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY
too PER CENT. PASSES 100 PER CENT. PASSES 100 PER CENT. PASSES.
And each Pupil secured Immediate Appointment at Lucrative Salary.
THAT IS THE MARCONI SCHOOL RECORD AT LAST EXAMINATION.
Become a pupil at once and you should be efficient in five months.
Tuition by Specialists on the Standard Marconi Apparatus.
The Code, Theory and Practice.—The Code, Theory and Practice Taught.
If vou decide to Learn —Receive Tuition from the Recognised Experts at
THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS DEPT., 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Then you will have Priority of Appointment to the Australasian Mercantile Marine.
PURE FUR
FELT HAT -
INTO YOUR HOME
FOR
1416
No. 250.
Any Part of the
Commonwealth.
It’s the “present’’ shape, fine quality and value. Made with Greaseproo
Leather Lining. Stocked in Dark Fawn, Drab, Medium Grey and Dark Grej
mixtures, with Black Band and Bow at Side or Back.
Send Your Size
and 14 6.
Write for Catalog
of Shirts,
Underwear, etc.
yon
Or
**CF.
HENRY BUCK & CO.
MEL OURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A DEA[?]
[?]
SONOL
The dismal failure of the favorite in the
Melbourne Cup appears to have been due to causes
which had never suggested themselves to the horse’s
backers before the event. Six-year-old Lanius was
running under new conditions. He had previous ex-
perience of “saucer track” racing when he won the
only two races for which he had started in Australia,
but in each case the field had been small —nine and
seven—and the. pace slow. He was always near the
front, with never more than one or two horses ahead
of him, and could comfortably take up the running
when called upon. A Melbourne Cup jostle was
something strange to an animal that had done most
of his racing on straight and spacious courses on
Newmarket Heath. As one of a close crowd of
horses, all going 1 for leather on fairly hard ground,
the jockey complained that the 2-to-l favorite was
like a big kid. He was one of a rearguard of three
as they came down the long straight and took the
first turn. Only Wallace Isinglass was behind him.
But Mr. “Baron’s” fickle steed had been there before,
and was not averse, so it happened, to pushing his
way through the tearing mob as he went along.
Lanius would never make an effort. He was scared
all the time. At the best he only galloped on
warily, while many of the others dropped back
beaten, some of them having done a respectable
dash. When he was practically out of the ruck
(because the ruck had broken up) Lanius wouldn’t,
of couldn’t, make up for lost time. Perhaps he
wasn’t in condition to sprint after going a mile
and a half at a fair pace. More probably it was his
pluck that had now quite evaporated. It couldn’t
have been bad temper that accounted for the
absurdly feeble performance of the red-hot pot.
Lanius differs from most imported horses in being
a most amiable creature —gentle as the proverbial
lamb that was born to be skinned by the books. No,
the ignominiousness, of his defeat must have been due
to nervousness. The question as to whether he had,
or hadn’t, done enough work to carry him through
the Cup contract will never be satisfactorily
answered. Only the fact remains that Lanius’s
trainer expected him to beat stable-companion
Chrome quite easily, and Chrome was hardly more
than three lengths behind the winner at the finish.
Westcourt repeated the performance of Piastre five
years ago. Piastre ran second in the Metropolitan
and third in the Melbourne Stakes before winning
the Cup. Twelve years ago Poseidon won the Cup
after a run-up in the Met., and in the year follow-
ing the positions of the winner and second in the
Metropolitan were reversed in the Cup. Mooltan
and Apologue shared the four prizes between them.
This year the second and third in the Bandwick
handicap came first and second in Melbourne Cup.
But because this sort of thing doesn’t happen every
year without exception there are still people who
sneer at calculations based on form. Now, form this
year indicated that Westcourt would be the least
unsafe of investments for a win and a place in the
Melbourne Cup, if he came fit to the post. This
page said on October 11: “Judging by what hap-
pened in the Spring Stakes and the Metrop., the most
likely of the Sydney horses for the approaching Mel-
bourne meetings are Westcourt, Lingle, Wallace Isin-
glass, Thana and The Fortune Hunter. By all the
rules of form measurement, Westcourt can be made
out to have a first-class Melbourne Cup chance with
Bst. 51b Present appearances indicate that the
Caulfield will go to -something trained in Victoria,
and _ that Westcourt will be the best of the Aus-
tralian-bred horses in the longer race.” That was
just sizing things up on form. The Sydney colt,
Bronzetti, happened to beat two Victorian horses
at Caulfield (Providence only knows why), and the
English-bred crack proved a take-down in the Mel-
bourne Cup, nor was there any Victorian candidate
equal to beating Westcourt, Lingle and Wallace
Isinglass. Chrome was the most consistent of them,
for he ran a close second in the Caulfield and a good
fourth in the Melbourne Cup, while W. Isinglass
finished fourth and third in the same events. Lingle
certainly ran nowhere to speak of in the Caulfield
Cup, making it appear that the Metropolitan form
was not quite trustworthy, but his brilliant race on
Derby Day restored his character and brought him
7 to 1 for the Cup.
The easy victory of Chrome in the Veteran
Stakes last Thursday was a remarkable object-lesson
in the difference between a lightweight boy and a
little man on the back of a big, sluggish horse. In
place of boy Kiley, who had ridden the animal in his
last three races and had sweated to get down to
fist. 121 b. for the two Cup jobs, Lewis was tried on
Chrome. Now, Lewis is a pocket Hercules of nigh
40 years of age. In the Hotham Handicap, on Derby
Day, when Lingle rushed past Chrome, the half-
brother to Westcourt made no sort of effort to over-
take the leader. Biley couldn’t knock a snrint out
of him. But in the Veteran Stakes the big horse
cleared right away from the field as soon as Lewis
shook him up. There was nothing much to beat,
save The Toff, but the finishing effort had the bril-
liancy which was previously wanting, and the time
was fast. Chrome carried Bst. when Lewis had the
ride at Flemington, and the impression left oh the
mind of the critics was that the same jockey, putting
up, say, 7st. 121b.—cr 191 b. more than the handicap
weight—micht have just about won the Melbourne
Cup with Chrome.
The defeat of Lanius by Wallace Isinglass, Cctigne
and Thana in the C.B. Fisher Plate was a triumph
for the “I told you so” brigade, and a vindication
of jockey Cairns, who had been quite freely sus-
pected by the man-in-the-street of having worked
Ikey’s evil will in the Melbourne Cup. Lanius ran
a very respectable race in the limited field, but he
wasn’t able to stay it out —and that’s all about it.
As to whether he was the same horse that had won
two weight-for-age events in October, or had been
going off for some time before Cup week, the wise-
acres are no more able to say than the Victorian tip-
sters who took his excellence for granted after see-
ing the tall horse win a couple of races with
apparent ease. The facts of the case are these. lv\o
years ago he proved himself the second-best horse in
England over long distances, and won large sums in
stakes. The next year he ran only twice, unplaced
in one race and second for the Cambridgeshire, the
biggest betting race of the season. That was a year
ago. Then he came to Australia to win the two
races mentioned.
In the Steeple at Flemington on Cup Day vener-
able Obi, carrying a stone less than his National
weight of four years ago, outstayed the up-to-date
Dunacles. It was Obi’s first win outright since he
took the Grand Nat., for the second time, in July,
1913. During the four years he had put up some
good performances, of course. For instance he Was
runner-up for the Australian Hurdle Race in 1914
and ’l6. Seems likaly that the evergreen jumper
will eventually die of old age whilst crossing a
hurdle.
The Cup Steeplechase at Flemington was as an
extract of bvgone Grand Nationals. Old Booligal,
old Coradjill, old Highland Clan were the only three
in it after the hot-headed Murrangong, from Adel-
aide, had fallen victim to his eagerness. Highland
Clan, chucked into the handicap on the strength of
his having gone winless for two long years, was
much too good for overweighted Booligal at the
finish. The over-weighting of poor old Booligal will
continue, apparently, until he finally falls and breaks
his neck.
* * * *
The glorious uncertainty of the turf gets
its fullest emphasis in steeplechasing. The Cup
Steeplechase at Flemington was a good thing for
Murrangong if the son of Malster stood up. He
didn’t stand up ; and after his downfall old-stagers
Highland Clan, Booligal and Coradjill lobbed home in
procession. Four days later the same four monopo-
lised the betting for the Victoria Steeple. - This time
Murrangong stood up and won the 25 furlongs race
easily, whilst Booligal lost his rider through hitting
a fence and Coradjill came a cropper. The backers
of the two ancient veterans had been practically
declaring them to be much safer jumpers than the
winner.
* * * *
One of a thousand droll stories of Tatt.’s
sweep. A little syndicate of young city men per-
severed with their
weekly doles into the
sweep fund until their
patience gave out.
They had a few tickets
between them in every
blessed sweep all the
year round, but never
any sort of prize blew
their way. So they
decided that there
must be a Jonah in
the party, and drew
lots to discover him.
The man who drew
the lowest number was
dropped out of the
syndicate, and the
others continued their
subscriptions. But
Jonah, having got
into the habit of hope-
fulness, bought a
ticket on his own and
won a £5O prize. The
syndicate had drawn
the wrong Jonah.
* *
On Oaks Day at
Flemington five out of
the six events fell to
locally-trained horses.
On Steeplechase Day
only one winner out
of six was Victorian.
Even the Steeple
winner came from
another State.
SEP MILLER, of
the V.R.C .
Committee.
This year’s Oaks was quite up to the
ancient traditions of the “ladies’ race.” In a field
of six a seven-to-one chance was an easy winner.
No startling tum-up had happened in the Oaks of
recent years, and punters had got out of the way
of looking for one. Certainly it wasn’t Folly Queen
that they expected to beat the precious favorite,
if the precious favorite was beaten at all. Appendix
had been whispered about as the likely outsider —•
poor little Appendix, the daughter of Pendil, who
was simply out of it at every point of the race.
The bookmakers must have invented the rumor con-
cerning her capabilities.
On Oaks Day five first favorites were defeated at
the following prices—7 to 2, 13 to 8 on, 7 to 2,
10 to 9, and 2 to 1. These were starting
prices as stated in the newspapers, but on one of
the 7 to 2 chances—De Gama —a lot of little wagers
were booked at 2to 1 and sto 2. One first favorite,
however, won in brilliant style. His narpe was
Biplane and his price was 10 to 1 on.
A slight set-off to the general disgrace of
imported horses at the V.R.C. Meeting was the vic-
tory of old Defence, son of Carbine, in the Carnival
Handicap. It wasn’t a very glorious victory, seeing
that the old chap was receiving 2st. from De Gama
and 191 b. from Secret Service, but it served as a
reminder that one English-bred horse at least has
lasted some years on the Australian turf. Defence
is now a veteran of eight summers, and has been
racing in Melbourne for five seasons. In his young
days he wasn’t raced at all.
* * * *
Joe Burton, who trained Westcourt, was
a Blayney (N.S.W.) boy, who spent his early days
in Bathurst, where he rode and trained for many
years. He left Bathurst in 1895 to settle at Rand-
wick. As far away as 1890 he had his first wm
at Flemington with his own mare Muriel. one
later got Tatt.’s Cup at Randwick. Joe: won the
A.J.C. Derby with Javelin and Belah, the Sydney
Cup with Normanby and Tartan, and the A.J.C.
and Victoria Derby with Mountain King.
Melbourne tipsters were all at sea over
this year’s Cup. The Herald was the only paper
with the temerity to leave out Lanius in its final
1,2, 3. Its prophet very nearly scored with his
Lingle 1, Westcourt 2. The race seems to have been
a puzzler all through. Attempting to weigh up the
form when weights were declared in June, the Argus
man named a dozen nags as likely to have chances.
Only two of those selected started, and the ultimate
hot favorite was not mentioned. No wonder prophets
have no honor in their own country.
Claimed by or on behalf of John Carey,
of Cavan, near Yass (N.S.W.), that by an exhaust-
ive study of breeding he has been able to pick 10
consecutive winners of the Melbourne Cup. This
ought to prompt John to breed winners on his own
account, and by the sale of guaranteed yearlings to
put everybody else out of business and bring the
firm of MeShortodds to the sorrowful point of pay-
ing 2d. in the £l.
They haven’t managed to get “wowser”
naturalised in England yet. The Sporting Times
is trying to float a sort of Sportsmen’s Association
to fight the present tendency to gloom. The letters
that pour in in support are written by the very
men who would want to use the word if they knew
it. But evidently they don’t. So they have to make
shift with “faddists,” “cranks,” “Puritans” and
“white-livered spoil-sports”—all of which could so
easily be expressed by the one Australianism.
“Ken”: I saw a fraction of the Cup race
from the turn into the straight on the poor man’s
lawn. After the field had swung round, I started
off in the direction of the distant betting ring to
meet the name of the winner, which would come
leaping down the Flat from mouth to mouth. A
little, wire-whiskered man fell into step and con-
versation. “Seen may Cups from the turn?” he
asked. “It’s my first, but it’s certainly a thrilling
few seconds,” I replied. “It’s me fifteenth, and me
last,” he snapped, disgustedly. “It’s the jockey’s
language I come to hear. Used to remind me of
the old times with the bullock teams. But the
kids are going to the dogs. Why, to-day they
were talking at one another like a crowd askin’
for cake in a parson’s drawin’-room. It’s no good
ter me.”
* # * *
Informal, winner of the Welcome Stakes
at Auckland (M.L.) last week, was thought last
season to be worth only 40 guineas and an opera-
tion. All of which is another illustration of the
way “good judges” tumble over their feet. But
the spectacle of a gelding taking a race like this
looks like a proclamation that everything said on
behalf of the “classic” race is mere wind. For
breeding purposes the value of the gelding could
not possibly be less.
F. Northover, one-time a prominent jockey
in Queensland, was killed at the Front a few days
ago.
Jack Hilt, who had been under suspicion
of being the middle-weight hope of N. S. Wales,
was put up against Fred Kay at Rushcutter’s Bay
Stadium on Saturday with calamitous results. In
the first round the elongated conundrum shot his
right into John’s bingey with a violence which spread
the recipient all over the floor for 9sec. It was a
horribly disturbing punch, and for the remainder
of the evening John’s innards gave him as little
peace as Kay’s knuckles. At the end of the ninth
round he had been trimmed to a hair, and, being
too groggy to proceed, announced that the war was
over. Whereupon Arthur Scott gave judgment for
Kay and Hilt retired for repairs. Hilt might do
better on some future occasion but there is a whole
heap of things he will have to learn first. No. 1
is that in disturbing the peace with an individual
who fights the wrong way round and the reverse side
up, the thing that can be anticipated is exactly what
might otherwise not be expected. The man who
fights Kay with the pantry exposed is calling tenders
for internal trouble.
* * * *
The climate of Westralia is having such
terrible effect upon the local family of Murphy
that the youths from the Brothers’ College have
managed to win the champion shield at the Perth
inter-school athletic championship gathering on only
10 successive occasions. At the contest last weejc
the scoring was: Brothers’ College, 83 : High School,
63; Scotch College, 61J ; C. E. Grammar, 56.
Arthur Coningham, the joyful spark in the
’93 Australian XI, has reason to be proud of his
eldest son, Captain Arthur Coningham, who has been
embellished with the D.S.O. and Military Cross.
Young Arthur was at Samoa, later in Egypt, and
finally shifted into the Flying Corps. Arthur I. is
the holder of that freak record of scoring all the
runs (26) for Stanley against Alberts in 1891, while
a merry 151 for Bananaland v. N.S.W. in ’95 is the
Northern State’s individual record inflicted on Ma
State bowlers.
N. G. Mclntosh, a Sydney C.E.G.S.
youth, picked up the “under 15” N.S.W. Junior
athletic championship on Saturday in 11 2-ssec. At
las't year’s G.P.S. championships in the “under
14,” he won 100yds. (12 l-ssec.) and 220yds.
(26 4-ssec.) ; this year in the “under 16” his best
was third in 220yds. The other item billed on
Saturday was the junior mile championship, which
R. Campbell (Petersham) won in smin. 45 2-ssec.
Such proceedings ought to be greatly discouraged.
The longest event in “under 16” classes in G.P.S.
championships is 880yds., and that is quite enough.
At the High School sports at Christchurch
(M.L.) recently a boy under 15 years, named D.
McMillan, hoisted himself up 4ft. lliin. in the high
jump. He landed safely on the other side, but
the school record was badly fractured.
* * * *
Jack O’Connor, who dropped into Sydney
premiership cricket limelight again with seven
wickets for 43 and three for 41 against University
on Saturday, is an old campaigner. ’Way back
in 1909 he tripped away with Noble’s Austral),
XI. He also helped N. S. Wales in intermit
games, and at various times played with Glebe a
Burwood in premiership matches. There wasn’t
more dangerous wet-wicket bowler than n'rv 11
in those days, which explained why ?
wouldn’t rub off when last week’s raLX
arrived. ms
Stumped by Father Time, Harry Trott
the great inter-State and international cricketer
the ’9o's. Born at Collingwood (Vic.) in ISrr °:
20 he played for Vic. in S. Aus., and keeping ,
form tripped with the Australian Xl’s of ’BB 'dft
’9S and ’96. Altogether in “tests” he scored flu
runs at an average of 21.90. In inter-State match*;
he took more than 100 wickets and piled up over
1000 runs —a peg on which only Warwick Armstrong
George Giffen, Hughie Trumble and M. A Noble
hang their blazers. Of late years the great all
rounder has only , struggled along, and a benefit bv
the Australian public was being well supported when
the Umpire called.
* * * ,
A long-standing world’s swimming record
was submerged at Sydney on Saturday when Tom
Morris knocked over the half-mile back-stroke record
allegedly belonging to Harry Gurr (16min. 29sec)
or his heirs since 1865. Morris did the distance in
15min. 56 l-ssee., and, keeping up steam, covered
the mile in 32min. 42 4-ssec. He tuned himself up
with long-distance spins on George’s River, and is
an untiring, mechanical athlete. The fly in his cup
however, is a quibble whether he was sufficiently
robed to take the title.
* * * *
“C.G.A.8.”: “Jeff” was wrong when he
spoke in a late Bulletin of a 16-cylinder 475-h.p.
Coutalen aircraft engine. The engine in question
has 18 cylinders and develops 450 brake-hors.epower.
The engine is what is known as the Broadarrow
type; that is, there are three rows of six cylinders
each, all firing on to the same crank shaft. Hence
the name Broadarrow. The cylinders are of mild
steel, the waterjacket of copper and the pistons
of aluminium. The central row of pistons are
connected straight on to the crank shaft, while those
in the two outside rows are connected on to the
central connecting rods by an arrangement of links.
The central pistons have a longer stroke than those
on the outside. The valves are the “overhead” type,
there being two inlet and two exhaust valves to
each cylinder. The engine has six carburetters and
six magnetos, each cylinder has two sparking plugs,
each plug being on a separate circuit. The engine
complete weighs something like 12501 b. without
radiator or water. The lubricant used is pure castor-
oil.
Killed in the last big fight in France, Tom
McClusky, a redoubtable half-back in the days when
football was football. McClusky—known to fol-
lowers as “Redwing,” on account of his fiery poll-
played for several seasons for Footscray, and put up
some great performances, one particularly on the
historic occasion when Footscray downed North
Melbourne on the latter’s own ground for the cham-
pionship of the Association in 1912. McClusky came
from the Shepparton district. He was 26, and had
been a little over a year on service.


To Have a Knowledge
of Boxing
proves one’s greatest friend. Are t’T®' 1 SUch a knowledge
to defend yourself against the attacks of j yOUr own P art —
A scientific knowledge of boxing will cnable ¥f essive men ]
punishment to any inexperienced bulk wk I, t 0 dellver a sound
assert your manliness in the hour of need y ° SS your P ath -to
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
a thorough, scientific and practical man
fhl - fv, N ° W d ° nt ? et the idea that I teach you Zw
the theory, because that’s not so. Under nw
wd 1 learn how to make all the “hUs ”
boxers.’ 3 moves ° f the world ’ s most scientific
You ve no excuse for remaining crude and inexneri-
* ed| T a f g °° d tar r et for the first bully who torments
hoxer,
A\hat a delightful pastime you’ll find my tuition'
AVhat a valuable exercise for body and brain!
St e .an°d Ur poTft a to d me dr a e nd Twill **«**”-
interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing i/^Y^r
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The all-round Champion Athlete of
„ Australia,”
650 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
iO
'y ,
m
Wherever
You Need
Current
COLUMBIA
Batteries
are used to
run engines and
tractors, motor
cars and motor
boats. They
ring bells; oper-
ate telephones
and signals; light
lanterns and portable lights.
i Columbia
! Batteries
are all-round utility batteries. They
operate as well for heavy as for light
work. They are portable, compact,
non-corrosive—easily connected in the
circuit. Dependable, uniform, strong.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
so constructed as to give satisfactory
results under every
climatic condition.
They are protected by
moisture-proof cartons
and carefully packed.
Dealers : Imme-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
. Cable Address:
Carbon Cleveland"
kQ£uMisi
Vfimog'
%L°isn^
Reliable Dry Cells.
Especially Manufactured to withstand
AUSTRALIAN CLIMATIC CONDITIONS.
Long Life. Low Internal Resistance.
“R.S.C.” (Blue Label), for BELLS
telephones, medical batteries!
etc. ’
li volts, size 21in. x 6in. Price 2/-ea.
“RAMSAY” (Red Label), for IGNITION
and all other work requiring HEAVY
CURRENT and QUICK RECUPERATION,
li volts, size 2£in. x 6in. Price 2/9 ea.
11 volts, size 3in. x 7in. Price 3/11 ea!
If your Dealer does not stock, send for
Pamphlet 8.30 to
Ramsay Sharp 8 Co. Ltd.
217 George Street, SYDNEY.
Indent and Trade quotations for the above, also
for “COLUMBIA” and “HOT-SHOT” Batteries
supplied on request.
■
L
THE CHOICE
Of THE PEOPLE
THE WORLD’S BEST
<8
G
Boss
of the Road”
CATALOG
WITH
PLEASURE
Melbourne:
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell St
Sydney:
Milledge Bros., 1 56 Castlereagh Street
Brisbane:
Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide & Creek Sts.
ADELAIDE:
Eyes & Crowle Ltd , 75-79 Pine Street.
LAUNCESTON!
John King & Sons Ltd.. Charles Street
PERTH:
A rmstrong Cycle & Motor Agency, Hay St
DO you care about
OUR MEN AT
THE FRONT?
If you do, will you write to
tbe Federal Member for
your Electorate and asK Him
WHAT IS TO BE DONE
TO PROVIDE REINFORCE-
MENTS ?
¥1
TO
SftiXS
ii
To get the highest
road - efficiency and
longest service from
your engine
ALWAYS lubricate with
National High-grade Motor
Oils.
Their cleanly flowing qualities,
remarkable viscosity and decided economy will be apparent on the first test.
Obtainable all Garages and StoreKeepers.
—in one-gallon tins, four-gallon tins and barrels.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street. SYDNEY.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
' JAMES WARDLE & 00.,
ADELAIDE.
Wear* j
( T ossard
COR<SEIFS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Ravy men.
Used since 1596, CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. Englandl
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
Supreme and
Inimitable !
Quality is ever paramount! After all there
MUST be something unique in the quality
of records which hold the EXCLUSIVE
reproduction of the voices of practically
ALL the celebrities of the world!
CARUSO.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE
RECORDS
are British-made, by British labor and capital. That’s ANOTHER
point worth remembering. Ask to hear the remarkable records by
CARUSO, MELBA, CHALIAPIN, McCORMACK, KIRKBY
LUNN, HARRY DEARTH or any of the HUNDREDS of other
celebrities.
Look for the Dog trade-mark (“His Master’s
Voice”) when you buy instruments or records. It
is your absolute safeguard—the guarantee of
perfect tone and flawless reproduction.
Accredited dealers everywhere.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
THe Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street——— ——Sydney.


“I can travel
swiftly over the roughest paper.
I travel many hundreds of miles every
year —over foolscap and notepaper, sketch
book and drawing pad.
1 can travel in comfort , with never a
hitch, or a jolt, or a wait, for years and
years."
I*
The Onoto is the Fountain Pen that fills
itself instantly from any ink supply, with
no trouble or mess. A simple device seals
the ink reservoir so that the Onoto cannot
leak. You can pack it in your bag without
any fear of it ever spoiling your clothes.
It is the safety pen that is REALLY safe—
the self filling pen that is ALWAYS satis-
factory. Get it.
the non-stop pen.
Price I A/6 and upwards. Also ONOTO
Valveless lor those who do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen, from 10/6 uwards. From
all stationers, jewellers, and stores. Manu-
facturers: Thos De Fa Rue & Co., Ftd.,259
Bunhillßow,Fondon. E.C. Managing Agents:
Norman Baker & Fong hurst, York Street,
Sydney.
m
A
Crown
Deal*
Government
Purchase
of
Rabbit
SKins.
Prices lOd. to
lb.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY.
Nothing contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides, “Mellin’s”
is a no-worry food—hot water and
fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
Mellms
Food
Baby’s Feeder Is Important. Mellin's Feeding
Bottle Is unique; hygienic,efficient,easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin's Food, with Handbook
for Mothers. “The Care of Infants,” sent Free.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. proprietary. Ltd,
Sydney
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fa
S
Put on a Roof
That Defies Sparks
Why take chances with an inflammable roof when we can
supply a roofing that insurance companies regard as “ equal
to tin, slate or tile” in fire-resisting qualities. This roofing is
Pronounced “RlTas in RUBY
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER
In a recent test “Piles of wood
shavings and sawdust, saturated
with gasoline, were burned for
19 minutes —until consumed —
on the surface of ||U-BER'OIO
Roofing. At the end of this time
the embers were removed and it
was found that the roofing was
blistered but still intact."
fgU-BER-QlO contains no coal tar,
asphaltum oils, wood fibre, paper,
or other inflammable substances.
It costs much less than either tin,
slate or tile.
feu -BER-OIQ Roofs laid more than
20 years ago are still watertight
and apparently as good as new.
No other prepared roofing has this
record. Our customers who have
used PU -BER-OIQ never have to
worry over leaks or repair bills.
Come in and let us show you this
good roofing. We have it in attrac-
tive slate gray and in beautiful
colors Tile Red and Copper
Green. Our f$U-BER-OIQ is the
genuine —the “Ru-ber-oid Man”
(above shown) on every roll.
Agents: KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO. LTD., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Elder, Smith &■ Co., Limited,
General Merchants, Importers & Exporters.
Special Department for /Vletals and Ores.
ADELAIDE—
-37-31 Currie Street.
MELBOURNE—
-84-88 William Street.
SYDNEY—
-12 Martin Place.
BRISBANE—
-334-338 Queen Street.
LONDON—
-3 St. Helen's Place, E.C.
Branches throughout South Australia.
Also at Broken Hill and Wentworth, N.S.W.
Agents in Western Australia —Elder, Shenton & Co., Limited, Perth and Branches
pRICE S
X
555
ii^\\\\\\\\\v^fli
yjrfake for safety
and health.
( 95 AWARDS )
The sensible light
for Bedroom & Nursery.
Price’s patent candle company ltd.
London, Liverpool, Manchester. Glasgow.
a
Self - Aligning Ball ■ Bearing
PLUMMER BLOCKS.
The Only Power Saver.
! .p
-,C>
SSv
4a*
SAVE 50 to 90
per cent, of
Friction over
Ordinary
Journal
Plummer
Blocks.
GARDNER, W/ERN
& CO.
Melbourne 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane 369 Queen Street.
SAVE 95 per
cent. Lubricant
over Ordinary
Journal
Plummer
Blocks.
Usher’s Metropolitan Hotel, Ltd. (Syd-
ney)—the deficit of £18,007 with which the
co. started was made up of goodwill £16,0*3
and preliminary expenses £1494: —
To Reduce
Aug., Loss. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1914.. £921 £ 18,988
Additional goodwill items, £559 19,547
1915.. 1070 ' 20,617
Profit.
1916.. 105 £lO5 20,512
Profs.
(8 p.c.). Ordinary.
1917.. 4574 £76o* Nil 3814 16,698
*lneluding accumulations.
Usher used to keep the old Metropolitan on
a corner of King and Castlereagh streets.
Then the Daily Telegraph dispossessed the
almost historical beer-pump and put up an
office pile; whereupon Usher moved along
the street, taking his valuable license with
him, and got the public to help him put up
new premises to house it in. As usual in
these or any other times, the cost exceeded
the estimate. The share capital asked for
was £85,000, of which the vendor took
£lO,OOO in shares. Originally only about
55,000 shares were taken by the public and
£50,000 was lent on debentures. Gradually
another 22,000 shares were sent to market;
and still the new building in Castlereagh-
street ate up money. By this time (end of
1915) capital wasn’t rushing around to offer
its services, and to get the required money
the-co. had to issue 2nd debentures and £7OOO
in pref. shares carrying a fixed cumulative 8
p.c. The £760 just paid squares up these
shares to the end of August.
Throughout the building operations the
profit on the temporary bar almost paid the
rather heavy overhead charges. The new
premises were opened in September. 1915.
Naturally in the first year they didn’t earn
up to their full capacity ; for though good-
will stands in the books at over £17,000,
that represents mostly the value of the
license, and the residential part of the busi-
ness had to establish its own goodwill. That
it has gone on doing it may be judged by
the much larger profit made during the past
year; and the £4574 shows up after striking
off £l2OO for crockery replacements, etc. The
balance, after providing the pref. dividend, is
equal to a shade under 5 p.c. In ordinary
circumstances a steady improvement on this
could be expected as the pub—brand-new
and very central —gets itself .talked about.
But there will be conditions pulling the
other way. The directors, after referring to
strikes and wages boards, proceed :
In addition the prices ruling throughout the year
for food and groceries, wines and spirits and other
commodities used in the business have been steadily
increasing. ... Until conditions become normal, the
profits cannot be expected to give shareholders the
full return to which they are entitled.
Yes; but some body has been collecting those
high prices, and in consequence there are a
good many people who have been having a
joyous time, and Usher’s, like other pubs,
has been told to fill ’em up again. If the
times gone by have been abnormal, they
haven’t been abnormally bad for the pub,
and especially the superior pub, except so far
as 6 o’clock closing is concerned ; and that
probably won’t be altered in the changes that
will come with peace. We don’t know yet
what those changes will be. For a while there
will probably be a reaction and something
like boom conditions ; then we shall sit down
with the bill. And lots of people won’t be
nearly as much inclined to fill ’em up again
as they have been during the past two* years.
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1911.. £950 9 p.c.-£472, £478 £8,699
Sept., 1911.. 1009 9 ~ „ 472 537 9,236
Mar., 1912.. 1071 9 „ „ 472 599 9,835
Sept., 1912.. 1014 10 „ „ 561 453 10,288
Mar., 1913.. 996 10 „ „ 550 446 10,734
„ , 101 „ ( 902 10 „ „ 545 357 11,091
Sept., 1913. . | Written off, £5OO . . . • 10,591
Mar., 1914.. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
c . IQI , ( 927 10 „„ 550 377 11,432
Sept., 1914. . Writtel) off> £ 5OO . . . . 10,932
Mar., 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
„ , ( 891 15 „ „ 868 23 11,172
Sept., 1915.. j Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,672
Mar., 1916.. 853 10 p.c. = 702 151 10,823
Sept., 1916.. 882 15 „ „ 850 32 10,855
Mar., 1917.. 986 15 „„ 850 136 10,991
Sept., 1917.. 1023 15 „„ 787 236 11,227
Capital paid up £10,000; add the reserves
and the div. is equal to a shade over 7 p.c.
on the lot. A little over 4 p.c. is earned by the
funds —a rather poor return for these times
—the balance by the business. A nice, com-
fortable little concern, with £067,780 at pre-
sent at the credit of trust accounts; and
under 1 p.c. p.a. on that, added to the co.’s
own interest earnings, will easily keep the
15 p.c. div. going, with no risks worth men-
tioning outside the investment of the co.’s
own funds.
About the only place in the Common-
wealth where mining goes on near the snow
line is at Mt. Murphy, above Benambra
(Vic.). There G. Wallace Crabbe has a
crowd tussling with wolfram. Their propo-
sition was to get 90 tons a day through the
mill and net anything from £5OO to £750 a
month. But snow blocked the milling for
weeks, and for five months the dumps
couldn’t be touched because of the drift.
Then, when it wasn’t snowing it was rain-
ing, so all the dirt trucked was a miserable
400 tons. Most men would have chucked
the job and enlisted, but plucky E. C. Carter
still thinks it possible to make a do of things
if he can get a staff to face the weather with
him.
* * * *
“5.0. H.” : Sold the other day, at Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), by auction, the mining
leases of the late Tom Ryan, viz., Marmont,
Marmont Extended and Micky Doolan. The
Marmont was a few years ago one of the
best shows on the field, but like many others
met its doom through bad management. It
is a great pity that so much exemption is
given to the present owners; the plant is
just falling to pieces. The show needs a
bit of sinking and development, and would
then probably bloom again. There certainly
are some nice little “cops” in the old work-
ings for any tributor who is lucky enough to
get them. I have worked in almost every
stope in the mine, and I know.


Something worth knowing
about OIL
MEGGITT LED
to the
oil Eisers Australia.
til
'S*
>
a
it
the linseed O' l !1 a * Parramatta of 45 representatives of the Master Painters’ Association.
Mil! tl d t : rr , R - R T-T’ a . n * the Secretary, Mr. W. Mason, emphasised in their speeches that, but for Meggitt’s
Mill, the trade to-day would be without supplies. These gentlemen said in effect
TESTIMONY WE APPRECIATE.
A<? doubt Meggitt Ltd. have done something for themselves and their shareholders,
but they have also done a big thing for A ustralia. Where would Australia have
been to-day had not the enterprise of Meggitt Ltd. made it possible for oil to be
pitrchased almost at pre-war prices?"
IMPORTED OILS 2s. PER GALLON MORE.
Ar • » ods are - s - P er gallon dearer than the locallv-prodnced oils, but how much more would that price have been if
Meggitt s Oil had not been produced in our midst ? No doubt a few buyers through sheer force of habit, and possibly bv not knowino-
hat the same article can be purchased at 2s. per gallon less than they are actually paying, still deal in the imported' brands. But
1 -nnTnr eW ii nd between ’ as 1S evldenced by the fact that, while prior to the war the total imports of oil from all sources were
’ ’OOO gallons, Meggitt’s now produce 1,300,000 gallons. These figures do not merely prove the wonderful success of Meggitt
Ltd and the sendee they have rendered to the public—they also prove that the users of oil in Australia appreciate Mego-itt’sOils
with the sincerest form of appreciation—BY BUYING IT AND USING IT.
BREAKING DOWN PREJUDICE.
It has been gratifying to Meggitt Ltd. to find almost every day evidence of the breaking down of the old foolish preindice
in favor of imported oils, and a growing appreciation of the local article by users, including the following well-known manu-
facturers who consistently use our oil —
VARNISH MANUFACTURERS.
A. & G. Borthwick
Robert Ingham Clark & Co.
Hanson & Fuller
Shines Ltd.
Victoria Varnish C~.
Taubman Ltd.
WATERPROOFING.
Eilenberg & Zeltner
W. Bu rt & Son
H. H ARRIS
PREPARED PAINTS.
A.U.P. Co.
A. and G. Borthwick
M ajor Bros.
\ ICTORIA \ ARNISH Co.
Oxvmel Oil and Paint Co.
Eltremac Co.
H. A. Taylor Ltd.
Lewis Berger Ltd.
INKS.
Hanson and Fuller
R. C OLLIE & Co.
Meggitt’s Oil has stood every test, made as it is in a model modern mill equipped with the latest machinery on Australian
soil by Australian labor, producing an article comparable to anything made in Britain and America.
From all Stores, or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison 5. Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington. N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.


THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
Hansen’s Rheumatic
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) C. A. ROSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOMPSITT, MELBOURNE.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
113 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
FOR SALE.—ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KIRNBANK, Arthur Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
C =g~
<£
THIS PATENTED CIGARETTE MACHINE
makes a perfect cigarette. Instructions with each
machine. Send to H. FRICKE, Tobacconist,
Ballarat, Vic. Sd. Post Free.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
"•Navy Brand
WORCESTERSHIRE
I
•x : x*£j
SAUCE.
A Piquant Product,
DELICIOUS and
APPETISING.
If You Like the
“NAVY" SAUCE
Try a
Bottle
of the
“NAVY”
PICKLES
You will like
them, too.
Write for sample bottle, enclos-
ing three penny stamps for postage,
to J. PARRY d CO., Waterloo,
Sydney.
'Name
Address
For our sick and wounded
JSOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
“First to get the Gun/ 9
Slip Home Easy WinnefS/in the Race for Quality
Shirts, Collars and Pyjamas
The Name &&&£<}> has achieved popularity because
every Garment bearing the Pelaco Label is the result
oL partaking care and thoroughness in every
detail of manufacture.
S. Look for the quality guide “ Pelaco” when jpur-
chasing Shirts, Collars, and Pyjamas.
They are Guaranteed.
Made in Australia
\
777777/7
//'TI
///• '*
r ' .iil 'di r. •
&
'sr
The Royal Bank of Australia Limited.
Head Office: Melbourne, Victoria.
FIFTY-NINTH REPORT
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 31sf October, 1917.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the annexed Balance-sheet and State-
ment of Accounts for the Half-year ending 29th September, duly audited and certified.
The Profits amount to • • • • • • • • ’ ’ ’ * ‘' ’
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz. .
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum .. .. • • • • o'oOO
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £280,000) • • ’ og
And to add to the amount carried forward from last balance
£22,306 2 2
The Balance carried forward from last half-year, £8155/16/4, will thus be increased to £8461/18/6.
By order of the Board,
T-r t wit,SOW. (leneral Manager.
2 2
0 0
0 0
2 2
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year ending 29th September, 1917.
(Including London Branch Figures to 11th August, 1917.)
Dr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 Shares of
£4 each . . £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed —-
300,000 Shares of
£4 each . . £1,200,000 0 0
To capital paid up 300,000 0 0
To Reserve FunJ. 270,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss
Account . . 30,461 18 6
£600,461 18 6
To notes in circulation .•. . . 873 0 0
To bills in circulation . . . . 326,132 12 8
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest ... £44,685 16 4
Bearing interest 489,354 3 11
534,040 0 3
To Other Deposits—
Rebate and Interest Accrued—
Not bearing in-
terest ..£1,189,674 3 2
Bearing interest 1,055,382 16 0
2,245,056 19 2
To balances due to other banks .. 6,152 4 1
£3,712,716 14 8
To Contingent Liabilities .as per
contra . . . . . . .. 372,702 0 0
£4,085,418 14 8
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion,
Australian notes,
and cash at
bankers . . £850,767 10 2
By money at call
and short notice 45,000 0 0
By notes and bills
of other banks .. 2,625 4 10
By balances due
from other banks 7,897 18 6
By bills and remit-
tances in transit,
and payable in
London ~ 273,861 7 1
B y Government,
Municipal, and
other Public
Stocks, Deben-
tures and Funds 511,440 6 8
By stamps .. 927 6 9
By Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank Premises
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts
By bank furniture, fittings, sta-
tionery, etc.
£1,692,519 14 0
75,000 0 0
1,942,247 0 8
2,950 0 0
£3,712,716 14 8
By liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect of q q
contingent liabilities as per contra 3*2,* _
£4,085,418 14 j
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, income, and land
taxes and other charges .. ..£21,170 7 7
To balance 30,461 18 6
£51,632 6 1
By balance at 31st March, 1917
Less dividend declared
27th April, 1917 £12,000 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund .. • • 10,000 0
.. £30,155 16
0
22,000 0
po 155 16
By balance carried down . . • • * ’
By profits for the half-year after
deducting interest accrued on de-
posits and rebate on bills current,
less reserves for bad and doubtful
debts
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
By balance at 31st March, 1917..
By transfer from Profit and Loss
Account
£260,000
10,000
£270,000
fTIHE thing that the people should have
1 been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. 4 re thout
let the Ravisher of Belqxum «?*»
lifting a hand ?
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. bo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H.S.P.: It has probably been sung a dozen
different ways in order to run in a local gag. Think
you’re right in saying that Emerson brought it to
Australia D.A.W.: Faint pencilling received.
What is it about? Karee: Haven’t you seen rails
used for that purpose in Australia? Captain 0.:
Don’t know about printing it, but we’re glad he
mentioned it W.W.A.: Yes, but what was the
explanation? At this time of day the story isn’t
worth much without that. .. .O’Regon : Right; tenders
are hereby called from bush herbalists for an anti-
dote for the disturbing effects caused by a change of
drinking water. .. .J.P.M.: Won’t do— .L.1.G..
Workmanship too poor for so slight a thing. .. .
P.8.F.: “Missing” misses.... G.D.H.: It doesn t quite
work. .. .C.W.G: We don’t care for those lips....
E. 0.: Case seems pretty usual P. 8.1.: Willing to
accept your assurance that the hill blew up in
silence even though the cables assured us that Lloyd
George heard the racket in England H.W.S.:
None of the batch is quite_ up W'.H.L.: Poor com-
monplace verse aiming at pomp and display •• • •
J.M.W.: A weary way to get to a very small point.
H.C.: Devils that turn into goats make a poor
sort of thrill. .. .E.McL.: No use. .. .F.D.M.: Makes
us tired E.C.H.: Too slim A.C.H.: No yarn
there A.R.: “Bush” no use to us H. 8.: “Cock-
crowing” doesn’t score.... A.8.C.: “Elvie’s” a smart
little domestic item, but doesn’t come within oui
range. .. .T.M.W.: “Returned to Duty” hasn’t the
feeling,...A.G.J.: The “Sybil” just misses Foto:
Couldn't raise a smile. .. .L.M.: Good verse or two,
but bits are forced and some rhymes are bad
J.D.S.: Won’t do. You must first learn to write....
E.S.: You use 12 words for every one necessary to
the decent telling of the yarn... .A.E.H.: “Mercia
is not our style, but you should be able to place it.
....Jackdaw: “Spring” doesn’t move briskly enough.
A.W. : Verse not interesting. .. .1.M.A.; Nearly.
....L.P.J.: “Mother”- won’t do. .. .G.D.T.: Pom-
pous verse of that sort no use whatever... .A.W.0..
It’s the lucidity that appeals to us: —
The year is nearly done;
Gaily its curfews toll
Its night, and Father Time claims one more son:
The ages roll.
The ages near their close:
Love there is nought but wars:
They die, and of their night God only knows;
The devil roars.
Poppy: Mild verse in the old commonplace way.
J.H.: Not up....Rydal: Sorry for that old
“Gum Tree.” -It has had to endure a 10t... .Khaki:
Those “rays” don’t work gladly... .E.J.G.: “Iden-
tity” not up P.8.F.: “Souvenir King” misses,
but only by feet L. 8.: “Nature” has had 10,792
better sonnets written to her Patrius: “The Red
Gums” grow in very lame verse;.. .Elliven: Not
enough in it J.R.G.: Yes, it’s pretty young
E.M.R.: Your sense of humor appears to be of the
Stone Age G.J.M.: The last stanza strikes a new
note: —■
Australia, Australia,
I dream this dream of thee,
Shekinah-cloud of nations
That toil to Liberty!
A.H.: Not for u£... .M.C.: It limps Soldier
Boy: Sorry, soldier boy. We’d do a lot for you, but
we can’t print you.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.E.L.: Very young work. Interesting, but not
exceptional. .. . J.D.8.: Too late and too wooden. ...
G.: Sorry... . Publis: Impossible child cracking a
chestnut for an equally impossible father S.E.:
Both expressionless... .E.J.H.: Good old gag; bad
new drawing. .. .L.H.: Gaolbird unsuitable... .X.M..
Go to the Zoo and compare your drawing with the
living ’roo. One of them is wrong... .G.W.K.:
Goat butted straight into the basket.
“Ivhamsa”: This is how the employment
of Scowegians on our coast is frowned on by
the Federal authorities. In the early stages
of the war, when the crew of the Lighthouse
boat Lady Loch enlisted almost to a man,
their places were immediately filled by
foreigners. Then there are the vessels
engaged on examination work at Port Phillip
Heads. Their crews, from officers down-
ward. are composed largely of the same
breeds. Poor old Australia! There never
was a country which had its leg pulled so
mercilessly by its politicians.
“Billjim” states his grievance:—
A Sydney business called for tenders for paint-
ing a couple of rooms. Being a builder and con-
tractor, and just about to receive my discharge, I
went in uniform to inspect and quote, arriving a
couple of hours after the job was advertised. The
proprietor bluntly told me that he didn’t want me,
nor would he consider a tender from me. If I
had disguised the fact that I had been away fighting
for this man for three years I would have had a
hearing. What about establishing an internment
camp for bad Australians ?
Two years ago The Bulletin urged that
some sort of tribunal should be created to
inquire into charges of this sort; and the
demand grows more exigent. In this case,
for instance, The Bulletin has only Bill-
jim’s word ; and though he supplies evidence
of trustworthiness there may be a good
defence. The matter should be finalised.
Then the bad Australian (if he is one)
could be placarded. The State Government
has sent out two or three Judges to inquire
into the alleged “victimisation” of recent
strikers. Doesn’t Billjim deserve as much
consideration as the men who recently threw
Australia into disorder? Employers and
others are equally in need of protection;
some of them are going to suffer most un-
justly if there isn’t a tribunal to clear them.
“Simon”: There’s a little weather-beaten
freestone headpiece near the entrance to the
Waverley (Sydney) cemetery bearing the
inscription, “Wee Davie.” About 25 years
ago a child of about four wandered into
Oxford-street, where he was run down by a
butcher’s-cart. When the driver picked him
up the little fellow was unconscious. Pre-
sently his eyes opened, and answering a
question he said his name was Wee Davie.
In a few T minutes he was dead. The butcher
did all things possible to locate the babe’s
home, or find someone to whom he belonged,
but without avail; and so he had him buried,
comprehensively remarking under the “Wee
Davie,” “Somebody’s darling lies buried
here.”


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
\MM li 111
m il -.liS A s.yl
jii mP mi
iwSU
?#•!:?
'■l'
r
'W
A >«
mm
>v
-
m *v
* *
wm.fj
wm/ms
P AWiP /
m?
A
\
\
y
v
{**
w
5
/
5E
<='
5r r
c^sr
405
C\.l
iSSSS
br*
r~
*tr
35
- —t
v'£
:V>.
fgff
gggS
\\
IA
r\
rfSO 2 !
&-JS?
-
///
*>H
■
C>
If t
V
.-■■■
.
//,
s.
45^.-
V -
-r
Of
r>
/S
**V-
*Sf.
t-A
■ V'
r
'/
r
S: .
ViY,
~'rA
fS
r>*
r>
>
n
v.v
y?
■-,■
-a
rs
svi
V
i.
O
r
■ yy.
r\*
/
.-■
r%
mm
y_
y
s \ .
./
*
jg
•y
*•*
V
m.
Hi
J,
§
%
m
:r
.] ;•;
*3®
-■■
mm
m
/
. •.
fifOO?:
-Ml
m
m
m
m
' -'V;
S 3
W-
U
wm
05s
A,-A A
A' ~ -
y;-.
r'*Srajr,
S*S5
•,y
SSK
y.
v««
f
m
«.■ •
tm
m
m
&
m
a-
A
mmm
~7~ •
Ks'i’*
m
zrjri
-t'-v/
y-
m
m.
.
w
-.?
W:
Sf
?j£
5 K'
c
P
LIQ.
Cobra,” 15he. Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sees the “Sammies”
March in or through
Little Old
New York. See here!
They will get
Fritz by the ear.
Listen for a
Dachshund’s yelp!
Fritz will need a
Lot of help
When these splendid
Lads advance
To their “COBRA”
Job in France,


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246 2 ,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
Brisbane
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
*ROCK HAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Nov. 21
Leaves Sydney, Nov. 24.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 1.
‘Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Hankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capita! .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Dunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. IV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £106,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Care.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
, Chief Cities - throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. • .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods : and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
George
St. Hilda,
HOTEL,
Melbourne
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping ®c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, yiA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PEACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
wm\
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up
Reserve
Reserve
Capital
Fund -
Liability -
Directors:
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Macliellar, Ii.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. Fosbery, C.M.U., ii.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Aditors: A.
G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London. •
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
JBank ot Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
for Vl I General Banking: Business principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 A e en C' e ® at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER. Governor
PROVIDE FOR YOUR FUTURE WANTS
by banking your surplus earnings where they will accumulate with
interest at the rate of 3f per cent, per annum.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution, Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY,
accepts deposits from 1/- to £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Offices.
The Bank that Pays 31% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO
(LIMITED). U '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and , rom
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. RUPARA, November 17,
S.S. MORIALTA, November 24.
S.S. PARINGA, December 1
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Co m
on all services subject to conditions which canT
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTI)
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Huddart Parker Line
""'mSKSBr'
7000 tons sails every four weeks, from Sydney
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and Severn'
as advertised in daily newspapers. sa *
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne tn
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars tn
be obtained on application. F a to
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Bydney *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
Am.E R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw. —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
■ 'oinniodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
IURT & CO. LTD., Svdnev and Brisbane; MACDON-
U,D, HAMILTON & CO.,' Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
1 WEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COM'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —-steamer to Munvillunibah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SY'DNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE S’l'., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IT’S GREAT
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particular’s.
Eyes and Crowle Etd., Pirie St., Adel
aide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.F. •>
Perth, WjV.; Darby Auto Supplies to.
Pty., Elizabeth St., Melbourne; «•
Kussack, 377 a Elizabeth St.,
Philip Frankel & Co.. Edward
Brisbane.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Lo“ aon
should read the British Austbai
asxan, 6d. weekly—an illustrated PJP g _
containing mail and cable news f rol s, De
tralia and news of Australians in : n .
and at home. Australians are cordjimJ
vited to visit the British Austbaiasia
Reading Room at the Offices, 110 H »
born, London, W.C., where they can
home papers, meet their friends, l \ .
telephone, and obtain information w
charge.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
VISCOUNT MORLEY.
Recollections. By VISCOUNT MOR-
LEY, O.M. 2 vols. 25/- net.
ARTHUR RACKHAM’S NEW BOOK.
The Romance of King Arthur and
His Knights of the Round Table.
Abridged from Malory’s Morte
D’Arthur, "by ALFRED W. POL-
LARD. With 16 plates in color, full-
page illustrations and numerous
decorations in line, by ARTHUR
RACKHAM.
Ordinary Edition. 10/6 net.
Edition de luxe, limited to 500
Copies. 42/- net.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
My Reminiscences. By Sir RABIN-
DRANATH TAGORE. With Illus-
trations. 7/6 net.
Country Life : “An autobiography of singu-
lar interest. It is largely concerned with the
days of his youth and of his making, but that
is not its chief merit; he has given a wonder-
ful picture of Indian life as reflected in the
eyes of a boy genius.”
Nationalism. By Sir RABINDRA-
NATH TAGORE. 4/6 net.
CONTENTS. —Nationalism in the West.
Nationalism in Japan. Nationalism in India.
British Foreign Policy in Europe to
the End of the 19th Century: A
Rough Outline. By H. E. EGER-
TON, M.A. 6/- net.
Main Currents of European History,
1815-1915. By F. J. C. HEARN-
SHAW, M.A., LL.D.
Our Sea Power: Its Story and its
Meaning. By 11. W. HOUSEHOLD.
M.A. With Foreword by Admiral
the LORD BERESFORD, G.C.8.,
G.C.V.O. 1/6.
CHEAPER EDITION.
W. & A. K. Johnston’s World
Atlas. Containing 34 Political Maps
in Colors, with a complete Index to
over 30,000 places. Size 15 xl2
inches. Full bound Cloth, 2/6 net.
W. & A. K. Johnston’s War Map of
Palestine. Size 26 x 22 inches.
Printed in Colors. Cloth, Rollers,
Varnished, 2/- net. Cloth, folded,-
1/3 net. Unmounted Sheet, 6d. net.
Feeding and Care of Baby. By F.
TRUBY KING, M. 8., B.Sc., C.M.G.
Fourth Impression. Paper Cover, 1/6
net; Cloth Cover, 2/6 net.
Medical Times: “Contains a wealth of most
valuable and practical information. .. -We ran
thoroughly recommend this delightful volume,
which we consider to be one of the best of its
class.”
Bromley Neighborhood. A Novel by
ALICE BROWN, author of “The
Prisoner” (15th Thousand), etc. 4/6.
His Family. A Novel by ERNEST
POOLE." author of “The Harbor”
(100th Thousand), etc. 4/6.
6th Thousand.
Gold Must be Tried by Fire. By
RICHARD A. MAHER, author of
“The Shepherd of the North” (11th
Thousand). 4/6.
The Empty House. 4/6.
This new novel tells the frank story' of one
woman’s experience in marriage, and how her
refusal to have children reacted on her life
and temperament.
Orders for the above Four Novels to be sent
to Melbourne Depot, 109 Russell Street.
MACMILLAN'S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
5/- per vol.
659. The Dwelling Place of Light.
By WINSTON CHURCHILL,
author of “Richard Carvell, “A Far
Country,” etc.
060. Summer. By EDITH WHAR-
TON, author of “The House of
Mirth,” etc.
661. The Green Mirror. By HUGH
WALPOLE, author of “Fortitude,”
etc.
A complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from All Booksellers.
MACMILLAN gCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON,-W..C,JL_
This Task Need Not
Be Disagreeable
Shake a little Sani-Flush in-
to the bowl every few days.
It will keep it spotless, white
and free from odor. No dip-
ping —no scrubbing. Not a
general cleanser made for
cleaning toilet bowls only.
Sani-Fhish
Ask Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush
or can get it quickly; or write
us a card giving your dealer’s
The trap
**'nich vchj
«*nt clean
Sani-flusf,
name and
we will
have you
supplied.
Sani-Fluah
shou 1 d be
used wher-
ever there are
toilet bowls in
residences
and all other
buildings.
Does notin-
jureplumbing
connections
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney, N. S. W,
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.l.A., ‘'Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
** "d
0//
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
V *
Adopted by tbe Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
NELSON * ROBERTSON,
L>oftus Street,
SYDNEY.
HEART OF EMPIRE SERIES.
No. 1.
THE HORSE
GUARDS
The Guard House in front
of Whitehall Palace was
originally built in 1641. The
present building was erect-
ed in 1751-3, and was used
as Headquarters by the
Secretary of State for War,
the Commander-in-Chief
and his Staff until 1872.
The Clock was famous for
its accuracy, and, in olden
times, was used as the
standard of time (as
Greenwich is now).
m
m
in
•r
TYRES
'//
w* 11
jr
'//s
zrs,
£
&
%
n nr
i»
ft f\ ft
mt
Bji
l[
*m\ il
Q
£i
n
I
MILES OF AVON ” tours London and gives en route some little-
known particulars of famous places in the Heart of the Empire.
It is interesting to know that the War Office of to-day is situated
almost opposite the Horse Guards and has requisitioned huge supplies
of strong, enduring and dependable AVON TYRES ever since the
outbreak of war. And, although hundreds of Avon employees are
now in the firing line proving the “mettle of their pasture,”
the supplies of Avon Tyres are fully maintained by theii
comrades and are helping the Allies along the road to Victory,
Fit British AVONS to Your Car.
N.S.W. Agents—HAMMOND & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victorian Agents—H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents—The Queensland Motor Agency, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE'S LEADING HOTEL,
The New Management has completed the follow-
ing Improvements : New Commodious Lounge,
whole of Ground Floor; New Dining-room, seat
150 persons; New Kitchen; New Automatic Ele-
vator ; New Hot-water System throughout; New
Bathrooms and Lavatories.
QUEENSLAND’S HOT SPRINGS
FOR RHEUMATISM
CHRONIC INDIGESTION 8 GOUT.
Testimonials and Particulars—
LINGLEY’S HOTEL, Muckadilla.
Collins Bros. & Co. have prepared over 30 diaries
in a variety of bindings to assist the 1918 memory. (
All contain much useful postal and general iniorma- ■
tion.
N.Z. Government Notice.
DOMINION OF NEW ZEALAND.
To Shearers and Slaughtermen. ,
'T'HE New Zealand Government guarantees that
Australian Shearers and Slaughtermen 8 0, j’°
the Dominion for the season will at the end
he granted permits to return to Australia.
W. R. BLOW,
New Zealand Government Agent.
14 Moore Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
\\/ ILL DUNBAR WILLIAM WYLD, late of Sou%
VV port, Queensland, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with A. W. BALE, o'®
tor, Adelaide Street, Brisbane, with reference to a,
father’s estate.
RICHARD THOMAS DUNN.
INFORMATION is required as to < W
whereabouts of RICHARD rHO. *
DUNN, formerly of Riversdale Farm, Mi
ton, Otago, New Zealand, who wa
heard of about 10 years ago, when be *
in Melbourne. Present address re Q“ t 0
proof of his death (if dead ). Something
his advantage. Apply in first P „
JOHN JAMES LANE, Milton, Otago, m
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING REPAIRS
We desire to announce that we are making a specialty of the above, and give below
a few instances showing how we can assist you, and save you money.
CONTRACTORS.—Cutting girders, iron or steel structural work.
FACTORIES.—BoiIers. Corrosions, pittings, etc. All broken or worn parts
of machinery.
FARMERS.—Agricultural machinery parts welded.
MOTORISTS.—Broken or worn motor parts, cracked chassis, cracked
cylinders, gear-boxes, crank-cases, etc.
CARBON REMOVED FROM CYLINDERS WHILE YOU WAIT.
EVERYBODY.—Broken bedsteads, mangles, sewing-machines, gas-stoves,
etc.; in fact, any broken castings or parts, whether
ALUMINIUM, BRASS, COPPER, CAST-IRON OR STEEL.
QUOTATIONS GLADLY GIVEN. PRICES & WORKMANSHIP WILL BE FOUND SATISFACTORY.
PORTABLE PLANTS & EXPERIENCED MEN SENT ANYWHERE.
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS- ESTABLISHED 1911.
A. E. WEST (& CO.
Spe ialists in
Oxy-Acetylene
Welding,
TOP OF WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY. Te .. city^s
apis
THE most cooling, soothing, quality stockings
* you ever wore—“ Jason ” White Elite —
all Drapers are selling them.
Buy a pair now, and you will realise how coo!
and comfortable “Jason” are in hot weather
—because of their soft, silky “ finish ” that no other
makes possess. See the “ Jason ” Tab on every pair
—which guarantees that they are British made from
Australasian wool, in perfect taste, scientifically con-
structed and absolutely unshrinkable.
99
##
Quality Stocking! & Socki for L&diei, Children & Men.
Illustration shows the “Jason” Elite Stocking.
Finest woven plain mercerised lisle leg, ankle «
instep and all-wool 3-in. double top. Specially
strengthened wool foot ; la champagne, black & white.
Drapers and Outfitters everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
JASON HOSIERY CO.. LEICESTER. ENG.
IN BANANA LAND
The Opposition majority in the Legislative
Council was reduced still further when A. J.
Carter passed out the other day, aged 70.
Born in England, he put in a few years at
insurance work, then headed for Banana-
land at 23. He was with J. and G. Harris
until that merchant firm put up the shutters ;
then he joined J. Hart and Co., who founded
the Adelaide Milling Co., and was local
manager till the end. Also he was consul
for France and Norway, a live member of
the Chamber of Commerce (president 1898-
1900) and a director of various trading cos.
He could Avield a pen skilfully, too, and a
few years ago aired his views on his pet sub-
ject of bimetallism in a series of articles in
the Courier. He had helped to maintain
the Leg. Council’s barrage against Sosh for
16 years.
Bananaland Government is revising the
probate, succession and stamp duties. It
proposes to abolish stamp duties on re-
ceipts for wages where the employee earns
less than £4OO a year, and to raise the
exemption from stamp duty from £1 to £2.
Per contra, heavy increases are to be made
in probate and succession duties on big
estates. What a popular bushranger Ryan
might have been if he had been in that busi-
ness 50 or 100 years ago !
The saurian is not often seen so far south
as the Mary River, but twice within the
last 12 years members of the family have
been shot near Maryborough. The latest
news of the tribe comes from Owanyilla,
near Tiaro, where a youth saw a croc, on
the bank. He belted it on the nose with
BY THE SAD SEA WAVES.
JIM ( impressed) : “Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!"
JACK (starting up): “What! Has the darn thing stopped?"
a rock, “and,” says he, “it roared like a bull
and made for the water.” A few years ago
a resident of Paradise, on the Burnett, saw
a bunyip on the bank of the river. The
historian says that it too “roared like a
bull and made for the water.” As the two
beasts behaved exactly alike, there seems a
strong probability that either the Paradise
bunyip was a croc, or the Owanyilla croc, a
bunyip.
“Eta” : It may be the war, or again it may
be all owing to Ryan. For a start there is
a farmer at Harveston, near Rockhampton,
who is exhibiting with pride a sweet potato
3ft. Gin. long. Then there is Mrs. Rice, of
Cairns, one of whose hens has just hatched
out a Red Sussex chicken with four legs and
four wings all complete, while another
Cairns resident makes oath and says that his
fowlyard has produced two chickens out of
one egg. F. Hendricksen, of Tannymorel,
on the Darling Downs, unholds the honor of
the Southern division with a Black Orping-
ton egg weighing five ounces — 2| times the
standard weight.
The following curio found a shearer who
was doing a season in Bananaland: “Bill
Smith, e/o of the Cliffs. Ivooroongilloo,
Hammond Downs, or some Good Fish Hole.”
“Naturalist” concerning the Mornington
Island “rising” :
A dozen years ago there was no land outside the
Polar circles more remote from civilisation than
Mornington Island. There was no reason why any
white should want to visit it, and excellent reasons
in the shape of club and spear why he should stay
away. For the island was devoid of good land and tim-
ber, metals, fisheries and harbors, and was inhabited
by a wild, untamable race and situated far from the
track of ships near the head of the Gulf of Car-
pentaria. Though Flinders charted it early last
century, no European had crossed it till 1903, when
Dr. Roth, Protector of Aborigines, and Charles Hed-
ley, of the Australian Museum, explored it. They
found a race even more primitive than the mainland
blacks ; their canoes were rafts of sticks tied by
vines, their houses were holes in the ground, and
they were absolutely naked. Never had they seen a
match struck or water boil, neither did they know
how to use a steel knife or tobacco. They were the
least civilised people in the world.
Naturally, the scientific reports of Roth and Hed-
ley attracted much attention abroad, and the
Swedish traveller, Dr. Mjoberg, was despatched by
the Museum of Stockholm to investigate this among
other scientific problems. A visit to Mornington
impressed him with the importance of keeping this
tribe unspoilt and alive, if only that succeeding
generations might see for themselves a primitive
people in existence. He endeavored to enlist the
sympathy of the Australian people for an Australian
tribe, and various scientific societies supported his
request to the Queensland Government that all
access by whites, either good or bad, should be
sternly forbidden, and that Morning-ton Island should
be proclaimed an inviolable sanctuary for the natives.
This petition was promptly met by a counter peti-
tion from the Presbyterian Mission, which asked for
control of the island. The Government, under pressure,
put missionary before science, and the happiness of
the islanders and Mornington was handed over to
the Presbyterians. Now again is retold that story
of destruction which began with the Tasmanian abos.
and which has since been acted and re-acted all
over the Commonwealth. For an end came to the
happy, merry life of the Mornington abo., and the
life of roving through the forest without restraint
was terminated. Instead, “married couples were
settled on small areas of land and houses were built
for them.” And the result? Well, the mission so
endeared itself to the natives that one recent night
they stormed the station and chopped the superin-
tendent’s head off with a tomahawk. And now
“arrangements have been made to bring the culprits
to justice!”
Is it too late to ask the Government if the Mission
cannot be removed, the misery of the blacks ended
and their old life of happy freedom restored?
Gone!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Sapper Randolph Bedford, jun., Field Engineers,
A.1.F., left Brisbane yesterday for Sydney to embark
for the Front.”
Brazilian cherries prinked the hedge the morning
that he went;
The oleanders showed in air their roses flat and red ;
The dawn-haze shook on Moreton Bay, and to the
firmament,
With the morning at its dew-point, that the amaryllis
fed ;
And he went in youth and beauty, from our lovely
land of youth,
To the dirtied old-world countries where the kings
are strangling truth.
The bay lay flat and silv|r, like a sheet of polished
steel;
The quaint forms of the Glass House Hills were
hazed in violet;
And the imminence of parting made the half-drugged
senses feel
Each tree, and bloom, and blade of grass that in
the scene was set;
And the silky oak’s gold tresses seemed to droop,
that late Spring day,
When a big and good Australian from Australia
sailed away.
From the sunlight he goes singing to the old-world
winter keen;
From clean life to the murder and the filth of bloody
wars;
And from green Indooroopilly to the old-world s
hunger mean,
To vile middens and fields barren but of graves, and
wounds, and scars.
On the narrow gauge we thundered, climbing to the
Darling Downs,
And south he went to war with kings and rotten
thrones and crowns.
The jaearanda burgeons, and the bougainvillea burns,
As Australia burns and burgeons of the golden age
to be,
When the last of kings and kaisers fills the cinerary
urns,
And the march of the republics throngs the lands
from sea to sea ;
So Australia’s men shall make return, with balanced
sense of things,
And a fierce contempt for kaisers, and a laughing
scorn for kings.
Australia sends my son from home to trim her
future light;
To weigh the cause of death and wars, and know
the lies called thrones;
To see that old men make all wars, and send out
youth to fight;
That beauty, genius, courage bleed to save an
ancient’s bones;
For the lesson with the message she shall call from
over-sea,
His knowledge and his love of home in the great
days to be.
So he fares in our brave sunlight to the ocean and
his troop .
My son, whom White Australia fleshed, and gave him
thews and blood ;
And his going is his promise that Australia shall not
stoop
To the worn-out falsehood of the kings, who loosed
the murderous flood.
May the brave gods speed and armor him, and send
him back from sea,
To be a soldier of the great Republic yet to be!
Ulysses of the Yarra-side, Ajax of Riverine,
And all the long, lithe, quiet men of the great
central plain
Are as help, and yet as menace, to the “rulers” who
have been,
Whose sun sinks in vermilion, and will never rise
again;
My son the sapper and his mates leave freedom to
the free,
To learn the world’s need for the great Republic yet
to be.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIp
Brisbane, November 10 m r
My Dear Thargomindaii,- ‘ ' ..
Killed in action in Palestine ai •
in f S tb Lt 'T C h L) Af W \ E - Hark well, D a so (act ‘
of the John Markwells, 0 f Ueaudewrt" n"
was a captain when he left with , :le
l.iffht Hoi'sc. In GallipoU h e ' h .,‘ s h ' ""
a major. He was then 24 Hi= • ~m ade
him to Romani, El Arish u° b led
Rafa, and while on this tour h? ** and
D-S.O. For two and 7
mained on active service, never Wi.
pals for one day. The end came Sf
attack on Gaza. ln tke
• we ek the Operatic*, have been
. Horothy” to packed houses fe
I atriotic bunds will reap the benefit a?
Arthur Hunter i, the
brands, the conductor, tells me that T •
satisfied with Eva Webber as Dorothy and
he has a good word for Rene Hall as Vvafo
Arthur Crane and Cecil Houghton t
brighten the show. 8 “ also
The Arts and Crafts has its annual exhi
bition and sale of work this week \ 1
profits go to the Red Cross. A striking di
I> ! a f, of P° ter : v - of local clay by pm,
at the Tech., is a feature. 1 1 s
Just a word about the soldiers’ work
shops. Any money from sales goes direct
the men themselves. The emporium has
been in existence since May last and
already over £l7O has been socked ’llem*
hers of the Arts and Crafts, assisted by
other volunteer workers, give tuition free
and about 120 men have been through the
workshops.
Cyril Maude arrived on Tuesday, and was
welcomed on the Tivoli stage that evening.
On Wednesday a civic reception was given
him. It all helps to win the war. 1
A delegate from the Anglican Synod
attended at a Red Cross meeting this week
and urged the perplexed women committee
to throw down the art union and raffles
habit. The society replied that the commit-
tee had to raise at least £20.000 next yeai
to provide for sick and wounded and prison-
ers of war, and that it couldn’t see its way
clear to dictate to the branches as to how
money was to be raised.
Miss Corinne Bruce Nicol, who is pledget
to marry Commander Bowen on November
22, at Perth, is on her way to her happi-
ness. The accused did good work at the
taking of Herbertshoe.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The new pier at Port Maryborough (Her
vey Bay), which was officially opened months
ago, was used for the first time the other da
when a liner tied up to lift 6000 tons of ra#
sugar. The vessel draws 23ft., and had no
difficulty in negotiating the channel. J
A long-distance ride of nearly 8000 miles
across Australia has just been completed by
I). Collins, a young bushman of about 8(
Leaving Burketown on March 14, 1916,
accompanied by a packhorse and a dog, he
went prospecting through the Northern
Territory and Westralia. He looked it at
Broome, Kalgoorlie and Denial Bay, and
touched at Cloncurry the other day on his
return.


TIT
a?
£
u\<
iEk
j
? o o
ADVANCE IN PRICE
Owing to the increased costs of the Quality Products entering into the manufacture
of Studebaker Motor-cars, and the increased costs of ocean freight,
ON Ist DECEMBER
the price of the Studebaker 4- and 6-cylinder, Series 18, Models will be advanced
Studebaker is, and will continue to be, the greatest value in motor-cars, because it
is essentially a Quality Product, therefore its quality cannot be sacrificed by
substituting cheaper materials.
Throughout Australasia Studebaker Cars are famed for their
o
Economical Maintenance
Comfort and Roominess
Ease of Operation
Durability and Service
Advanced Engineering Design
Appealing especially to Station-owners, Professional Men, private use and for hire—you have only to glance about
the Streets of any City in Australasia and you will find Studebaker everywhere—the reason is apparent.
Quick Deliveries can be made on a Limited Number of Cars at Present Prices.
Studebaker Cars are sold by 173 dealers throughout the Commonwealth and the following
STATE IMPORTERS:
Queensland—The Canada Cycle & Motor Agency, Ltd., Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New South Wales—The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia, Ltd., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Victoria—Messrs. Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
South Australia—Messrs. T. J. Richards & Sons, Ltd., 95=99 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
West Australia—The Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania—A. Hill, 72 Collins Street, Hobart; Corrick’s Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
GENERAL DISTRIBUTORS:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia L
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist two ounces of concentrate of tam-
malite and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply to the hair with a small sponge
for a few nights and the greyness will gradu-
ally disappear. This liquid is not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure the hair in any
way. It has been used for generations with
most satisfactory results by those who have
known the formula.
Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days
to ensure the permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process de-
fies detection, and the result is an immediate
appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
which every woman desires. The effect will
last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out. and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
pan come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered plieminol may be
used. Get about an ounce fmm your c,hemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
ropts completely in a comparatively short
time.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a tearing and
building up process. With advancing years or
waning vitality this tissue-change lags: the
lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so long
that its owner gets a “poor complexion.”
Coipmonsense tells us this dead skin cannot
be enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin—remove
the bad complexion. It has been found that
ordinary mercolized wax completely absorbs
the devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolized wax. which any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If you w r ould
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com-
plexion, just use this simple treatment.
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed quarter-pound pack-
ages, which retail at about four shillings.
However, as this is sufficient for 25 or 30
shampoos, it really works out very cheaply
in the end. [4
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSES PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS.
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO an , OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active oi
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
CARTEfC
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Prlca,
GENUINE must bear signature
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Dhosforino
1 THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
lftiiiuuuuiuuaiUHiw\wnH«r;
Eneigy
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health ; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its history
"THE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS-
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agent
Messrs. H. & W. GREfIR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Syd"®^*
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, Englan •
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
OrJ.Collis Bro(||))£>lj
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE * ( ’ U
Coughs, Colds, Asthrn j
and in the Cough of JiRONCHIH
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved P* l^
in the pains of GOUU
NEURALGIA,
ACHE, ~ RHUUMAfISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM I>
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery'
Of all Chemists. Prices in England,
Made in England.
“Macko”: Unusual inducement from the
official invitation to the Broken Hill Flower
Show:—
You will be surprised at the glorious array of
Cut Bloomers 'of all descriptions.
Wounded lately in Flanders, a son of the
iate W.. J. Chidley, of the primitive dress.
Private Chidley went after the Hun with
the 10th M.L. reinforcements.
Old James Ashton, painter and teacher,
and father of the better-known Will Ashton,
has been again elected president of the S.
Aus. Society of Arts. It is his fourth
successive year. Powell (secretary) and
Fuller (treasurer) have taken root in their
offices. Each has been there over 20 years.
Uncle Sam is roaring for aeroplanes. He
has asked the Curtis Co. of U.S.A. to fur-
nish £40,000,000 worth in a hurry, and the
co. is engaging 15,000 men to complete the
order. The Curtis Co., by the way, has
completed a new hydro-airplane which can
shed its wings in case of trouble and become
a serviceable motor-boat. The engine is in
the body of the craft, and its power can be
switched on to an ordinary marine propeller
by a simple appliance near the pilot’s hand.
The Nationalist junta of the Flemington
(Vic.) electorate, after advertising for can-
didates willing to contest the seat on the
Win-the-War ticket, met to select their
man. The candidates were three returned
soldiers and one other. The selectors rest-
lessly sat out their (larangues; then yawned
'and sent in a verdict to the Inner Circle
that none of the candidates was worthy, of
selection. But the I.C. replied that it would
be worth £5O to keep Ted Warde in his own
electorate and his Demosthenic tongue off
the platforms of weaker Labor men, and the
Nationalist blessing was therefore conferred
on the least worthy of rejection. Thus are
wars won.
The shutter has fallen in France for
another of the Gallipoli D.C.M.’s —Lieut.
M. It. Tickner, killed in action. Near Gaba
Tepe in May, 1915, he and another corporal,
F. R. Cawley, made a sortie from Quinn’s
Post to a tent behind Abdul’s lines, where,
having killed the occupants, they cut the
telephone-wires and short-circuited the
Turks. After being discharged, Tickner was
for a time on the recruiting staff, but, han-
kering for the real thing, re-enlisted in April,
1916, and gained his commission late in the
same year.
“Oyo”: It was at one of those bun-
struggles given in his honor that Billjim
would gladly have paid a pound to stay
away from, especially as while home on
leave he w r as renovating mother’s cottage,
and wanted to finish the job. A portly dame
cornered Williamjames and got on to the
subject of hobbies. Bill remarked that
lately he had been pointing. The dear
duchess preened herself and admitted that
she, too, was an artist, and that “it was
most awfully bewitching to meet a kindred
spirit.” Putting her wig slightly to star-
board she said: “Do you paint from
nature?” “Oh, no,” says William—“from a
ladder.”
"Fanuela”: No accounting for tastes.
There is an old white-whiskered navvy in
Bananaland who has been working on rail-
way construction for 30 years or more. A
Labor Bureau lately sent him to work on a
line, and the old boy lasted about a fort-
night. The ganger then told him he was
too slow, and her drew his pay. About a
month later he got himself sent out again
and put with another gang. The ganger
put up with him for a week, and then told
him he’d had his day. The ancient next
called at the office and asked to see the
resident engineer (me) to whom he spoke
thus: “Ganger Jones has sacked me now,
Mr - • What gang shall I be after goin’
to next?” I started to express my sym-
pathy, when somebody who knew shooed me
off. The old man who insists on taking his
white whiskers into muck-shifting gangs
owns property enough to fit out half the
politicians in Queensland with a farm apiece.
J.F.H.” (London) : Something akin to
the State-controlled theatre is the latest
evolution of war economics in England. The
provision of plays and other entertainments
for soldiers, hitherto left to private pushful-
ness, has now been formally taken over by
the Army and Navy Canteen Board. Five
dramatic cos. have been organised, with a
good sprinkling of first-rate professional
actor-soldiers among them, and they are to
make a regular circuit of the soldiers’ camps.
They are to give plenty of variety, as each
has its own speciality—high-class comedy,
musical comedy, melodrama, farce and vaude-
ville. The performers of military age are
either discharged soldiers or low-down in
military classification, and the lady members
are “chosen by merit and not by favor”—
a principle that does not invariably rule
behind the footlights. Saturday is the big
night for these entertainments in the
soldiers’ camps, and two performances are
always given. The men roll up in hundreds,
and the military police range them in queues.
Tickets for the second house carries a pass
giving the holder the right to get home after
lights-out. Australian troopers are reported
to delight in these performances, and they
were particularly numerous and enthusiastic
at a recent representation of “Raffles,” in
which the leading roles were filled by Mal-
colm Cherry and Violet Paget, the lady who
for a while ran the IJttle Theatre in Syd-
ney and afterwards, with her husband, headed
a show in Brisbane.
Australian chaplain Tompkins, writing in the
Methody Commonwealth of the risks Billjim
runs in London, has hit on a new term for
syphilis—“the condition described in Psalm
38.” And a vivid description it is—old
David knew a bit. So, by the way, does this
padre. The dead-set made at an Australian
uniform, he says, is worse in London than
in Cairo or any French town. Stroll from
Trafalgar Square just along the Sitrand to
Australia House'in the evening, anck—leaving
glances and gestures out of the reckoning
you will get from eight to 19 direct spoken
invitations from strange ladies. How does
he know? “Well, my own experience,” says
the Rev. Joseph.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it inyaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will liever know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
j I 2T
5S = ?
UuJ“§
SO!
DU
»
■P",
6
*0
7 m iMS
YOU cannot keep well unless the liver is active and the bowels
regular. Neglect of this rule of health invites half the sickness
from which we suffer
Keep the liver active : otherwise waste matter and poisons
which should pass out of the body, find their way into the blood and
penetrate the whole system. Don't wait until the bowels are con-
stipated and your health impaired : take
GIAMBEPLAINSTABLETS
Jor the Stomach o Livep.
They are the finest natural laxative in the worid--gentle. safe,
prompt and thorough.
They regulate your bowels--stimulate your liver—relieve head-
ache-indigestion and constipation. Take them as occasion may
require. They will help you to keep in good health.
gP PREPARED Like many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
" before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
EVERY CAR SELLS ANOTHER
The Best Argument for the Mitchell is the Car itself.
People see it in the stream of traffic (running
2 miles an hour on high), on the open road at
from 25, to 50 an hour. They instinctively
turn to look—examine.
Its value is apparent on first sight. It is a
real car, with a powerful, flexible engine, long
wheelbase, sturdy beauty of line.
All this implies satisfaction, comfort, roomi-
ness; whilst its light weight ensures low
upkeep, fuel economy and ease of handling.
Mitchell Ag'ents will Demonstrate all its Fine Points to You.
AGENTS.
iEW SOUTH WALES—
F. H. Gordon & Co.,
133-137 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA —
Jas. A. 'lunro & Co.,
493-503 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —
Orchard Ralph & Co.,
105 King William St.,
Adelaide.
vX-x-XwivX-.-.v.wvX-x
S3S
v. *
? :> I
:•
s Mm '
mm
ymi-
.>. v /
H
■X '■
AGENTS.
QUEENSLAND —
Q’land Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA—
Bradley & Williams,
853-857 Hay St..
Perth.
TASMANIA—
L. O. Hildyard,
159 Macquarie St.,
Hobart.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Public Notices.
Short-story writers, para-
graph IST S, CARTOONISTS,
PHOTOGRAPHERS—ProfessionaI a n d
Amateur—desirous of Contributing to a New
Monthly Magazine devoted to Naval, Mili-
tary and Marine matters, as well as Avia-
tion and Subjects of Current Interest, are
invited to communicate with “F.8.A.,”
GORDON & GOTCH, SYDNEY. All
communications treated confidential if de-
sired.
Why Don’t You Learn
to Draw ?
“ There’s Money in the Pen.”
Drawing is an interesting and
PROFITABLE pastime. There’s
no reason why you should not
earn good money as an artist
But success
CANNOT he
built up on
an unsound
foil ndation.
Place your-
se 1 f under
the tuition
of Harry J.
Weston, Aus-
tralia’s famous com-
mercial artist.
THE WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAWING
will teach you to
draw—not to COPY.
It comprises twelve
months’ tuition, dur-
ing which time you are
carried along step by
step until you have
mastered all the prin-
ciples of correct draw-
ing.
Write for our booklet,
“There’s Money in the
Pen,” which gives full
details of our methods,
fees, etc. Send three
penny stamps to cover
postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
-I*,-’
POSTAL SCHOOL
DRAWINC.
OF
H *nat J wasrortVi
20 Waltham Buildings,
24 Bond Street, SYDNEY
Petrol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
JjETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/0 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
CAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEA T R K, SVI> N E Y
Nightly at 8. Matinee Wednesday at 2.30.
REYNOLDS & WHITE. Harry Roxbury’s specta-
cular scream, THE PRINCE OF MONTE CARLO.
THE BEAUTY SHOP, by an all-star Women Cast.
DROWNED, BUT NOT DEAD, produced by Leonard
Durrell. George Welch, Billy Rego, Senor Roger,
Doris Thornton, Daisy and Sydney Yates. .
*|* I VO LI THEATRE, MEL HO V RN E-
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance for a Short Season
of
ADA REEYE,
Supported by a Brilliant Company.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. ___
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLTAMSON LTD.
TWO MORE PERFORMANCES OF L’AIGLON.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 17.
KATHLENE MACDONELL in A. E. Thomas's
Comcdv o’ Hearts,
THE RAINBOW.
CHARLES WALDRON in association.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
HER MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson’s Newly-organised MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
MR. MANHATTAN.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales at Callose’s.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. PHILIP LYTTON, LTD.
Business Manager .. GEORGE L. MERRIMAN.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
PHILIP LYTTON
presents
THE WAYBACKS.
HUMOROUS, GAY, CONVINCING, GENIAL,
INNOCENT.
Plan at Nicholson’s and White Rose.
■THE PLAYHOUSE, SYDNEY.
* (Little Theatre, Castlereagh Street.)
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT’S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in
QUINNEYS,
By HORACE A. VACHELL.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Plans at Nicholson's.
Amusements.
ST. JAMES’S HALL (Phillip St.), SYDNEY.
20th, 21st, 24th NOVEMBKH.
THE ABORIGINES DRAMATIC CLUB
will present
THE REAL MISS PINKERTON,
A FARCE IN THREE ACTS.
In aid of Fruit and Vegetable Fund, Wireless Sig-
nallers of Mesopotamia and Australian Pioneers’
Comfoits.
Mrs. MOIR, Mrs.
Organisers.
KERR, Mrs. Colls, Mrs. PARREY,
Producer: J. CLARENCE LEE.
Tiu Angle flays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Millkr, General Manager.
You haven’-t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their New English Musical Comedy Co.
in
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
II EAT R E E OYaI, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MARIE TEMPEST,
in
MARY GOES FIRST.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOCRX E.
Sole Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 17.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
lAN MACLAREN and a Specially-selected Co. in
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.
Popular Prices.
I
wx
It Won’t Scratch Nickel
Modern plumbing fixtures
of polished nickel should
never be cleaned with a
scouring soap, but only with
Bon Ami.
If you look very closely at your
nickel you will find
Ami and the nickel will stay
unscratched and always easy to
clean.
Bon Ami is made of a soft
mineral and will not scratch.
It is the only cleaner which has
a real polishing quality.
that it is covered
with very fine little
scratches. The
scratches make it
dull and hard to
clean the next
time. Use Bon
»T®ll^^r or all tfie
f Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning
At Tonr GrocerV
England Calls for Soldiers.
Officers require reliable watches.
We supplied them to men in South
Africa, Egypt and even France, and
many have called and thanked us for
the absolutely reliable instruments
supplied. Worn on the wrist they
did not vary a minute in a month.
They are J-plate Levers, will stand
Hard Riding and knocking about,
and are guaranteed for 15 years, and
kept in order without charge for two
years (breakages excepted).
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures. Strictly Cash.
Open Faced “Fx. & R.” Wristlet Watch, with full
luminous dial and hands complete, with metal
grille and leather strap as illustrated, 70/-
Amusements.
(KINCESS’S TIIK AT KK. MELHOritv*
Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER tUNE -
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 17
Messrs. BEN and JOHN FULLER
present
WM. ANDERSON’S Dramatic Organisation
in
THE WOMAN THOU GAVEST ME
P ° PUlar PriC6B> 3/ "collins "street. * Pi^’
H OYT-8 THEATRE^
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 n m
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
EMMY WHELAN
in
THE TRAIL OF THE SHADOWS.
and
JACKIE SAUNDERS
in
BETTY, BE GOOD.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
BESSIE LOVE
in a cute Triangle Play,
WEE LADY BETTY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Night at 8.
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
|yj ELBA
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: Sd. and 6d.
w
THOSE
PEARLY
TEETH
you read about are not
always artificial, but
the natural teeth kept in perfect
condition by thorough brushing
with
r
McK & R
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
In Britain and America Calox has attained
outstanding popularity because it has been
proved the most effective cleanser of mouth
and teeth. Oxygen is “the active service”
ingredient in Calox. This powerful force
thoroughly penetrates to every crevice and
destroys all decay germs, at the same time it
imparts a lasting brilliancy to the teeth.
Just as Calox is efficacious, so is it a
dainty and refreshing dentifrice. The hand-
some nickelled container in which Calox is
sold is also a big advantage, as it does away
with all wastage. J
A Free Calox
containing an ample supply
will be forwarded to you on
receipt of name and address
attached to this ad. and two
penny stamps enclosed to
< over postage. Write C'alox
Dept., Geo. Wills and Co.
Ltd., 480 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
Calox is procurable from
ALL CHEMISTS AND
k LEADING STORES.
(JSKJSSW
THE OXYSEN
B, TOOTH POWDER
»i«JJON k POBBIB
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of case 9
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and ««Id by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Flain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the states.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Efctab.
EXZERMA gcMMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of
svick Presbytery, in a letter dated May * _jj.
testimony to the wonderful results achiey- m j s -
cation of Exzerma in the case of a He
sionary who was suffering severely from
returned to the mission-field quite cu •
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Rf* n ’
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.


V*
I'T:
Baby’s
Itching
Burning
Skin
Quickly
Soothed by
Cuticura
Oint-
ment.
It’s wonderful how quickly a hot
bath with Cuticura Soap followed by a
gentle anointing with Cuticura Oint-
ment relieves itching, burning eczemas,
rashes and chafings, permits sleep for
infant and rest for mother, and points
to speedy healment in most cases when
it seems nothing would do any good.
This is only one of the many things Cu-
ticura does for the skin when used for
every day toilet purposes.
Sample Each Free by Mail. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Sold throughout the world.
Oneofthebest
Do you send your soldier
or sailor friend a regular
I supply of Cigarettes ? If not,
may he not think you have
forgotten him, Buy some
“De Reszkes ” to-day—•
he's worthy of the very best.
Post the parcel with your
own hands. Then you know
they are bound to reach
him safely.
Sold Everywlv^"'
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
CARTRIDGES.
Always Reliable
m
A
%
I
H
H
■
ELEY Grand Prix’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
ELEY
450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L° LONDON
If any illustration appearing in The
bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
IS
A
v
THERE is something most satisfactory about
having on the right shoes for the occa-
sion in hand. One feels comfortable,
smart, confident. And for any and every
occasion nothing could be more suitable or more
charming than patent leather, which always
looks well and goes so beautifully with every
colour and every fabric. Indeed, this little
shoe here illustrated will add no small share
of smartness and tone to one's spring suit or
summer gown. And it is only one style of
many equally desirable, equally’charming. For
Bostock shoes, besides being the last word in
smartness, all have a certain individuality which
sets them apart amongst ready-made shoes,
gives them the personal quality and the dis-
tinctive tone of shoes made specially to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6377
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
829
Sold at all leading stores. Look for
the name “Bostock” on the soles.
iWAM
J —J ERE are some reasons to show how
excellently suited is the “ Swan ”
Pen as a gift.
It adds to the pleasure of daily life. It
gives the best service and lasts for years.
It is free of all complications and little
faults. It is easy to send by post.
Count up all the people to whom you
wish to give a present ; send them all
“ Swans.” This will save you trouble
and win you much appreciation.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND IMPORTERS.
MABIE, TODD & Co., Ltd., 79 & 80, High Holborn, London, England.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney (wholesale only)—
255 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-320, Weston Street, S.E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago
AUSTRALIAN PRICES :
From
12/6
upwards#
Illustrated Catalogue Post Fret.
THE
k
fli
*
- S
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £650,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Sir JOHN GRICE, Chairman; EDWARD TRENCH ARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches In Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Th?
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
“Ethel Jones”: Put the women arrivals
in our Parliamentary press galleries in this
order: Stella Henderson (M.L.), 1; Harrie
Nowland (Q.), 2; Edith Shirley (Q.), ”.
Miss Nowland beat Edith Shirley by 10
years; Stella Henderson beat Harrie Now-
land by five. Miss Henderson’s paper was
the Lyttelton Times. She was put in a pen
by herself, and the protest she made for not
being allowed in with the gang was some-
thing to be remembered. Stella married
Allen, leader-writer on the Argus, one of
the bright men that shone with Gresley
Lukin in the Wellington (M L,) Post. She
still does some book-reviewing for the
Argus.
* * * *
“Warrego Bill”: I too have been in the
Bananaland Press Gallery for the past 10
years, and while I don’t dispute Harrie
Nowland’s claim that she has written Par-
liamentary notes, I am thirsting to know
what paper has published them. None but
accredited representatives of the daily press
are specifically provided for in the Gallery,
and —well, we’ll let it go at that.
* * * ■*
“Marinoa”: Once when I reported ver-
batim for a N.S.W. North Coast paper an
eight-column speech by the late John
Macfarlane, M.L.A., the editor decided to
publish it in instalments, and it was two
weeks before the last word was delivered to
the electors. But that’s nothing. In Octo-
ber. 1916, a conference of delegates from
the Harbor Trusts in the various States was
held in Melbourne. The official report of
the proceedings was issued by the Commis-
sioners of the Melbourne Trust last week!
Certainly it is a very nice report. It is
printed on the best art paper and contains
excellent portraits of all the delegates. The
cost of production (at a rough guess) would
be £lOO. As a souvenir it will be valued
by those members of the conference who
cherish pleasant memories of the Melbourne
picnic; but its value as a book of reference
is nil. Anyway, what’s £lOO or so? It’s
not as though we had a war to pay for.
That’s only rumor.
* * » *
“Penzance’s” recent story about an official
inquiry into the press-work of Adelaide Han-
sard men seems to have been largely a work
of fiction. To Fred Johns’s invaluable bio-
graphical hobby no Parliamentary Commit-
tee has been so foolish as to offer any objec-
tion ; and on behalf of other members of the
staff it is denied that any political writing
has been done.
* * * #
“Wart”: Lance-Corporal Pinel, now
training with some Tassies in v England, came
across an old tombstone in the churchyard
of the Fisherman’s Chapel, St. Brelade
In
Memory of
ELIZA ROMNEY FISHER,
widow of
Henry Melville, R.A.M.,
"Father of the Tasmanian Press,”
who died at St. Anbin
on the 7th December, 1876, *
aged 77 years.
All the same, I do not know that Melville
deserves the title of “Father of the Tas-
manian Press.” If it belongs to anybody it
belongs to Bent, although the first news-
paper was published by Governor Collins in
1809, a few months before his death, the
printers being J. Barnes and T. Clark. The
paper ran to 12 numbers. No. 7 contained
a full account of the death and burial of
Governor Collins. The first marriage notice
is worth recording :—•
On Monday, 26th ult., R. C. Burrows, to Eliza-
beth Tucker, both late of Norfolk Island. They had
cohabited together for fourteen years, verifying at
last the old adage, “Better late than never.”
Melville, who was proprietor and editor of
the Colonial Times, like other editors of
that time bumped against Governor Arthur.
He fought with his pen for a man who had
been condemned to death for cattle-sfealing
on very untrustworthy evidence. But, as the
accused was the nephew of a magistrate
who was on bad terms with Arthur, Melville
was prosecuted for contempt of court, and
sentenced to be imprisoned, for 12 months,
to pay a fine of £2OO and find two sureties
of £l5O each for his good behavior for two
years, and to give his .own surety for
£2OO. Still, Arthur didn’t serve Mel-
ville worse than some others. Xs a rule,
he kept editors and newspaper pro-
prietors half their time in gaol, which, per-
haps, is the best place for them. He ruined
Bent, who died in a benevolent asylum in
Sydney. When Arthur was recalled, the
Chronicle, Launceston, issued a thanks-
giving supplement.
THE BUSINESS-LIKE BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some scribes their tinkling' verses string
In sweating diligence;
To charm a maiden’s ear they sing—
I question not their sense,
Nor gibe I at the wanton waste,
But let them still adore.
I serve no damsel fair and chaste,
But weave my rhymes to please the taste
Of some grim, goggled, hairy-faced,
Prosaic editor.
Some poets in pursuit of fame
Burn midnight kerosene,
Grow pale and famished at the game;
But diligent and keen
Their tortured syllables they pile,
And stanzas polish o’er,
That Glory may be theirs a while.
I care not on whom Glory smile
If with my verses I beguile -
The gloomy editor.
There is a bard who trims his line
For sour Posterity.
He eats to-morrow’s bread, drinks vine
Of Nineteen-twenty-three.
The mistress he pursues, poor boy,
Is always on before —
Anticipation is his joy.
My whole endeavor I employ
To be accepted by some coy,
Concurrent editor.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


smrasiHfflE
The NEW EDISON
Get one for Christmas —
Your family will be delighted.
Christmas is but a few weeks off, and now is the right time to decide
as to how you will make the home specially bright.
A NEW EDISON is a perfect Christmas gift for the home. The
children, as well as the adults, draw the greatest pleasure from the
variety of entertainment it affords, and from the pure UNALTERED
tone of it.
The NEW EDISON actually Re-creates music; that is, it does not
merely “reproduce” music like ordinary talking-machines; but Re-
creates it in all its original purity, so that the original cannot be
distinguished from the Re-creation.
Music-lovers everywhere are buying The NEW EDISON. There
should be one in YOUR home —and Christmas offers you the ideal
opportunity for getting one.
A rite NOW for fully descriptive printed matter, mailed post free on
request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Marine Engines
W-RuiX
For All Boats
Cattle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Eights
Callle Five
Speed Row*
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 Jo 10
Miles an Hour
Callle 8 H. P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
A most complete
line of marine
motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails gladly mailed
on request. When
writing, please
state which type of
engine interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
Satisfaction
Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
•Sole Australasian Agents:
BENSON BROTHERS
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Stree
LTD
Melbourne.
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6
£4 7 6
£8 15 O
£43 15 O
£B7 10 O
£875 0 O
will
purchase
Cert
ficate for
Payable 3 years from date of purchase*
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax!
6“ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
l Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
October, 1917
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.-—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street’
London, E.C. ’
m % YS
-—"largs
: ')',J
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing.
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store
Owing to market fluctuations
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2£in. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7£lb Freight paid’
*7/7/-
&
1
/:
837. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock nistnl
oTfigaTgeYrrii it b !iS;r I fAoT p ib. f i re - end ’ tested for nitro powders; *** ’
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight ’ paid, £4/15/.
£4 10/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
“SWEET CROP”
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 5/-, post
free.
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal- ir\l
nut stock; weight about 71b Freight paid,
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £9/15/-
Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
B2G. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge,. top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels. left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks. Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
1 ilb.; of IG-gange, about GJlb Freight paid,
£6/15/'
m
“SURE CATCH’’ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right, modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7i to 7f lb. —■ «•> /
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight IV-/
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/15/-
SPORTING REPAIRS
A SPECIALTY.
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels,
w »inut 10 s °o?t• wS»ht,”ib&tm!!’.?!‘. ap . sO /-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action,
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised
walnut stock; weight, about 6ilb. Gun
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip,
can be taken apart, same as
Non-Ejector, 25/-; 8 2 -Auto-Ejector, 27/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.!
4/8 Inter-State.
, 7rfic£ Simmons Isj
numuiLm's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
NND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
Tietvcasile £ Brisbane


KJ“
REXONA-the Surfer’s Friend
To all lovers of outdoor sport a dip in the roaring breakers on a summer’s
day is indeed romance. Next day the sunburnt, blistered hands and scarlet face
are painful realities. This distress can be avoided by the application of soothing,
cooling, healing Rexona to the face, hands and arms. First bathe the face, hands
and arms with Rexona Soap and tepid water, softly drying them, then apply
Rexona gently to the skin. If this is done there will be no after-effects from the
exposure to the sun. No regrets
after a happy day. Rexona Soap
and Rexona in its dainty pot
should stand on the toilet table of
all who indulge in outdoor sports
Try the Rexona
Remedies.
To minimise the
after-effects of Sun-
burn, anointing with
Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, is all that is
necessary, and the skin
soothed and cooled
by its wonderful influ-
ence will quickly regain its
normal temperature and com-
fortable coolness. Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap will be found
excellent in combination with
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and
unequalled for all skin
troubles, aad as a shampoo for
the hair after your dip.
f*
AnN*«ph< Omfmc>r^
pyr«'«« a * ADsolufely
i Meals j KeltaDle
m
v=>
1U
Z 2
C 5
H
j3©
<4s^
Rexona Soap,
1/-
Rexona,
1/6 and 3/-
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead oencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
IJiJJJJJ
SUNBEAM
Company has been continuous and is reflected
in the present productions, and also in the
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
which has earned for it the title
Supreme on land and in the air.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS m » m m .• Wolverhampton, England
Earth Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE it is good to lie
Under the sunburnt sky,
To watch the lazy wing
Of a bird too glad to sing,
To hear the tall trees talk
Where the dry leaf taps the stalk,
And the little wind goes by
Making a laugh and sigh.
Listen, with ear low down,
To the kind earth hot and brown !
You can hear the world’s pulse beat
With a motion still and sweet;
You can hear the tree-roots tell
Of the thunder showers that fell
And the murmur of the stones
That in mellow undertones
Answer softly, “All is well.”
Ay, but put your ear loav down
To the kind earth-bosom brown.
Listen well, listen long.
Can you hear the little song
Lilting, lilting from below
To a music that you know? ~
What does the old world say,
All the hours of all the day,
Very lowly, very sweetly,
That your heart may hear completely,
And be wfise?
Always is the word the same,
Though the music changes often
With the changes of the skies.
’Tis a happy woman’s name.
And the vowels round and soften
To the ancient melody—
The eternal you and me—
That the earth forever sings
’Neath the feet of clowns and kings.
Here it is good to lie
Under the sunburnt sky,
To hear the old earth croon
Beneath the yellow noon ;
And always to feel and know
In the music’s ebb and flow
That you are the heart of all,
As you are the heart of me,
That ever in rise and fall
The world’s first minstrelsy
Breathes to the grass above
Only our love, our love.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Laugh.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Bill Smurk left the gaol the
first thing he thought of, after hav-
ing a real meal, was the war.
During his four years’ residence within grey
walls he had heard various rumors about
the disturbance, and had amused himself
trying to picture the effects of a world-war
upon the unfortunate people outside. In
fact, he thought it rather risky, with all
those bombs and shells about, to venture
from his seclusion at all. But the authori-
ties calmed Bill’s natural apprehensions.
They assured him that he would be almost
as comfortable outside as in. And they re-
minded him that he wasn’t likely to remain
long in the danger zone. Even in war-time
there were still houses to burgle and safes to
break, and they promised him a warm wel-
come on his early return.
That day of his release was the most
amazing in Bill’s young life. He had pic-
tured the streets deserted, save for weeping
mothers and widow's in black, and crippled
Anzacs, returned from Gallipoli and Flan-
ders, creeping clumsily along in front of
shuttered shops and closed hotels. But
the streets seemed even more thronged than
before his abrupt departure. The flappers
dapped just as he remembered them, except
that their apparel was even more gay ; the
shops were crowded with shoppers; he
noticed a great window filled with expensive
furs; he saw long queues trailing from the
doors of the theatres ; he personally verified
the fact that the hotels still sold beer.
He had looked for misery and poverty and
pain; and he found a careless, light-
hearted crowd of young people amusing
themselves in their casual Australian way.
The women in their extravagant dresses
had, he found, been doing this sort of
thing all the while he was in retirement.
He saw almost as many healthy young men
about as he had seen in gaol. Among the
throng the few figures in khaki were hardly
distinguishable. In one shop he noticed
three young men behind counters. If there
really was a war on nobody seemed to have
suspected the fact.
Bill Smurk metaphorically kicked himself.
Why hadn’t he thought of it before? Of
course, the war was over; the news was too
recent to have penetrated the thick walls of
his private residence. Peace had been
declared; and this cheerful, care-free crowd
of well-dressed women and healthy young
men was celebrating the victory!
He snatched a paper from a newsboy.
There, in big print on the front page, he
read of the war: it was still in good going
order. Men were being killed, all along that
line in France, at the rate of one per
second. The Australians were still at the
throats of the Prussian Guard. Turning the
pages, Bill found, tucked away on the inside
pages, a huge casualty-list in tiny type. Evi-
dently casualty-lists were no longer “news.”
Bill remembered reading, in a smuggled
paper, the first casualty-list, at the capture
of German New Guinea. The few names
had appeared in heavy headline type. What
the public wanted to read about now was
not the dead men, but the live men killing
other live men.
A clatter of hoofs and a jingle of harness
nmde him jump back. Down the street, to
the cheers of the crowd, rode a troop of
Bight Horse, each rider leading a horse with
an empty saddle. And on each saddle,
on a white cover, was the question :
Who’ll fill an empty saddle and ride to
victory ?”
Some of the white-covered saddles were
already occupied. Grinning and awkward
youths sat the led horses uneasily, too con-
scious of the cheering crowd. There were
even some who, though Australians, had evi-
dently never been on a horse before. But
the majority could have slept in their
saddles.
‘Oil right,” said Bill, “for them. No
good to me!”
The troop rode on, gathering up recruits.
Bill turned into another street. “A bit of
orl right,” Jhe murmured, “but I don’t know,
nothinlc about horses.”
He looked suddenly up. A grim figure
was pointing a vast finger at him. Bill
dodged. He was too modest to like being
pointed at. He moved swiftly to the other
side of the street. The stern eyes followed
him, the minatory finger still transfixed him.
He laughed—a cracked laugh. His risible
muscles were out of order, almost atrophied
by long disuse. There wasn’t much to laugh
at in prison. That threatening finger, those
sternly commanding eyes were only part of a
huge poster of Kitchener, telling him to
“carry on.”
Bill looked around. Everybody seemed to
be carrying on, now that the troop of horse-
men had passed, without much worry. He
joined the crowd about the recruiting stand.
A young girl was speaking. She was lectur-
ing Bill, because he was a slacker, because
he wouldn’t go to the war. Bill wriggled.
He had been long accustomed to being
ordered about, and told what to do; but he
wasn’t going to stand a girl throwing orders
at him. Yet the crowd seemed to like it.
It cheered whenever she paused for breath.
Bill felt more at ease. This wasn’t seri-
ous, either. It was only an open-air per-
formance, a free show provided to keep the
people from brooding on the war. He began
to enjoy it.
The next turn was a returned soldier,
with only one arm and with portions of his
face mislaid. He didn’t threaten Bill; he
didn’t fling a vast finger at him; he didn’t
seem even to have noticed Bill at all. But
he told Bill, quietly and almost confidenti-
ally, a few things about the war, a few
stories of what other Bill Smurks had done
for their mates at the Front, and of the
weariness and death of other Bill Smurks in
France owing to the lack of sufficient Bill
Smurks from Australia to help.
The crowd was as interested in this speech
as in the other. It was the next turn in an
enjoyable free show. Of course, the per-
formance would have been more interesting
if the management had provided pro-
grammes ; but still there was a half-hour of
the lunch-time for all these healthy young
men to waste while they smoked their fags.
One or two of these young men looked around
at Bill. He edged away ; he wasn’t accus-
tomed to be scrutinised; he felt that they
might be memorising his features for future
reference. Those healthy, whole young men
seemed to be accusing him. They seemed
to be saying : “Hullo ! What are you doing
here? Why are you loafing about when
your mates are being killed? Why don’t you
go and help them? Ain’t yer got no blanky
patriotism?”
It was uncomfortable to have people
thinking those things about you. But,
somehow, those chaps were right. He de-
cided to get away from these disturbing
thoughts.
As he turned he was tapped on the shoul-
der. Bill’s instinct w T as to dive and wrench
himself free; but he had been too long in
gaol, too accustomed to obeying orders on
the instant. He stood.
It was another returned soldier. “I say,”
he cheerfully asked. “What about you in
khaki? You heard what the Sergeant up
there’s been saying? You’re just the chap
to make a soldier. Your mates are waiting
for you—over there !”
“Rats!” snarled Bill. “I ain’t got no
mates.”
“Not among that rotten lot!” the other re-
plied, with a sweep of his arm that included
the crowd. “But in France!”
“Anyhow,” said Bill, “they wouldn’t have
me.”
“They’d rush you! They want you!
There’s a mate out there who’ll be killed
unless you are there to save him.”
And he put his hand on Bill’s shoulder to
lead him to the platform.
Bill shrank back. Go as a soldier? Yes;
it would be a bit of orl right. But when
you’re a soldier you got ter do wot yer told
—sharp, too ! And Bill had been doing that
for four long years.
Still....if they’d take a gaol-bird? And
mates —waiting for him, ready to welcome
him ! Gord knows he needed a mate ! He
could cheerfully die for a mite —a real man-
mate !
“Right-oh,” he replied. “But I ain’t goin’
up on that platform. Too public.”
The soldier laughed. “No need for mak-
ing a show of yourself. Just come along o’
me.”
He led him to an office where Bill signed
the papers and passed the medical examina-
tion. He gave his profession as a mechanic:
he knew himself to be an expert mechanic.
And when he found that it was necessary to
have a religion, his friend was beside him
to give him a useful tip.. “Put yourself
down as a Quaker, mate,” he suggested.
“Then you won’t have to attend church
parade.” So Bill Smurk was converted to
Quakerism.
You see, Bill Smurk, being just released
from gaol, and thus unable to acquire the
proper perspective that we have, took the
war seriously. Unlike the sophisticated
mid-day audience at the free matinee. Bill
didn’t take it for granted. He felt that it
had gone on long enough ; he felt that he’d
like to buck in, right away, and finish it.
The real reason was that Bill’s sense of
humor had become atrophied, or bottled up
somewhere behind his grim face. If he had
been able to laugh at it a11....but, then,
he couldn’t laugh.
A month after Bill Smurk’s departure
from gaol the detective office began to worry.
(Continued on next page.)


Private
ROBSON,
of the 2nd
Royal
Scots,
and
facsimile
of his
gallantly
won V.C
d
m
Yh
«
s>:
V.C. HERO-
PRAXES ZAM BUK.
USED BY SELF AND
COMRADES DURING
RETREAT FROM MONs.
FOR conspicuous gallantry i n
rescuing a wounded N.C.O
and attempting to save
another comrade under deadly
fire, Pte. H. H. Robson, No. H 340,
of the 2nd Royal Scots (Lothian
Regiment), has been awarded the
» Victoria Cross. Writing from
Glencorse Barracks, Glencorse,
Scotland, the brave soldier states: “2am*
Buk is my favorite healing balm, i have
used it for the last four years, and oh
my embarkation for the Front I carried a
supply with me. I used Zam=Buk on
several of my comrades who were
wounded, and it proved its great healing
power—so much so that it was not
necessary for them to leave the firing-
line. During the retirement from Mons,
a lot of men, including myself, were complaining of different
sores. Having a pot of Zam=Buk with me, and knowing of my
past experience with Zam=Buk, I recommended it to my comrades,
They all used the balm, and could not express in words the relief
it gave them. Whenever a draft goes out to the Front, 1 always
recommend them to carry a pot of Zam=Buk in their haversacks.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is invaluable for
Eczema, Piles, Bad Legs,
Ringworm, ,Festering Sores,
Guts, Scratches, Burns,
Bruises, Sprains, Abscesses,
Sunburn, and Injured Con-
ditions of the Skin. Sold by
all Chemists and Stores at
1/6 and 3/6 per pot.
amßiik
m
rUB IT INI
' Slip the
Strop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade, renewals, and the time and trouble in
meaning which every other safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
ST U. "? r<l “VALET” on RAZORS,
Vnt su an <l BLADES indicates the genuine product of the
Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 61 New Oxford Street,
London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compris-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safetyrazor, firstquality
Valet” horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
“Valet” blades, the
whole in handsome
leather- covered or
nickel case, lined 90 jC
velvet and satin““/"
The record in housebreaking showed no sud-
den upward tendency: the market in burg-
lax-y was quiet. Detective Burke, a bright
young sleuth, was annoyed. Bill Srnurk
was at large, but not earning a dishonest liv-
ing. Something wrong somewhere: it
would be necessary to discover Bill. The
detective looked for Bill in all the unlikely
places, without result. One day, however,
he paused to listen to a recruiter addressing
the crowd —the same man that had worked
on Bill’s humorless feelings. And the detec-
tive felt himself suddenly uneasy. Hunting
down criminals seemed a poor sort of job
compared with hunting down Germans.
There was his mother, though, and the chil-
dren to keep....
"Got him !” Burke muttered triumphantly.
“Bill’s enlisted! Just the chap to get sen-
timental over the war. Was nearly getting
that way myself!”
That afternoon he found a fresh-faced, brisk
lad in khaki at the camp, with two stripes on
his arm and a cheerful grin on his face. If
Burke hadn’t been a detective he wouldn’t
have identified him.
At once he interviewed the 0.C., who was
surprised, but refused to show it. He sum-
moned Corporal Smurk, though Smui'k
wasn’t the name he had enlisted under.
Bill cheerfully admitted the few salient
facts that the detective retailed for the offi-
cer’s benefit.
“But, look here,” said the 0.C., “what’s
the criminal record of Corporal Smith?”
“Smurk!” the detective corrected.
“Smith!” the O.C. smilingly rejoined.
“He’s Corporal Smith now—a new man.” .
“He’s too clever to have a record, sir.
This is his first offence—his first official
offence.”
“And his prison record?”
“‘First-class. We were sorry to lose him.”
“So would I be,” said the O.C. “His
record here is the same. A born soldier,
and knows how to command the confidence of
men. His only failing is his lack of a
sense of humor. He never laughs. Seems
to me this life suits him better than his old
one.”
“He’s certainly safer here, sir,” the sleuth
admitted.
“But, as he’s wanted”-
“He isn’t. We’ve got nothing against him
now. He’s served his sentence. He’s had
no time to get into his stride again. Must
have enlisted the very day he left us.”
“Well?”
The two looked at each other. Corporal
Smith, standing rigidly at attention, began
to become interested in the proceedings.
“We want men!” said the O.C. “Men!”
“Burglars?” the detective queried.
“Well, yes. There’s a big house-breaking
job that wants doing over in France. We
want to break Hindenburg’s line.”
“The only thing, sir,” said the detective,
“is that Smurk”
“Corporal Smith!”
“Corporal Smith ought to be watched.”
“That’s my job,” the O.C. reminded him.
“And I’m doing it.”
“All the same, sir, it’s my duty to keep a
close eye on him.”
“That’s easy,” smiled the O.C. “You can
shadow him all the way to France.”
Detective Burke forgot all about his
widowed mother and the children.
And Private (ex-detective) Burke went
away with the first batch of reinforcements
in charge of Sergeant (ex-burglar) Smith.
* * * »
It had been a strenuous day, a day of
incessant attack and counter-attack by
masses of grey automatons. Sergeant Smith’s
right arm felt like load. He had been bomb-
ing all day. He felt that he had been hurl-
ing bombs for a year. Only slightly wounded,
too, and luckily in the left arm. Private
Burke, with a bleeding ear—or what was
left of an ear—was equally exhausted. The
two were all that were left of the platoon
that had held that corner of the captured
trench. But they were holding the trench ;
they had held it for 23 hours.
“And those chaps at home don’t take this
war seriously,” muttered Sergeant
Smith. “You know, mate, it was only be-
cause I took the thing seriously that I came.
I butted right into it, fresh and innocent-
like, fresh from gaol. I hadn’t got used to
it, like the rest of ’em. Serious! It’s gettin’
that serious that it’s almost becomin’ a joke !
We’ve bin a week now, haven’t we, bombin’
our way—how far? About the length of a
city block, that’s all. Say from George-street
to Pitt-street. But they can’t shift us from
Pitt-street now we’ve got here, any way!”
Conversation was interrupted then by an
attempt on the part of inconsiderate
strangers in grey to shift the two from Pitt-
street. Having settled that argument, Ser-
geant Smith had a further opportunity to
loaf.
“Serious !” he muttered. “It’s gettin’ past
bein’ serious. If my sense o’ humor hadn’t
been knocked sideways by the four years I
did, bli’me if I don’t believe I’d see the
humor of this war! You know wot I’d do?
I’d laugh! Only I can’t laugh: all the
laughter is bottled up inside of me; it’s
shrapnel-proof. But if I could, I’d laugh
at the whole rotten joke. For that’s wot
this Avar’s become, a joke—the biggest joke
ever put up ! Y"ou an’ me and them chaps
over there bombin’ away at each other for
a week —maybe, for a year! And all them
other chaps back in Australia goin’ ter their
offices every mornin’ and readin’ the war-
news—about us-—and trottin’ home ter their
wives and their dinners every day. I dunno.
Seems ter me, sometimes, that if us chaps
didn’t take the Avhole thing as, a joke the
war would collapse. If I could only laugh !
My oath, wot a joke the Avar is! Wot a
joke!”
To the amazement and concern of his
mate, Sergeant Smith burst into hysterical
laughter. He laughed and laughed. All
that laughter bottled up inside him for all
those years exploded. He laughed so heartily,
so hysterically, that he had to lift himself
to the parapet of the smashed trench to find
room for his convulsions. And standing in
the full vieAv of the amazed German army-
corps he shrieked Avith laughter, he doubled
up with laughter, he almost collapsed with
laughter.
His sense of humor, so long held under,
had broken out at last. He saw the ghastly
humor of the ghastliest joke in the history
of civilisation.
Private Burke leant forward to pull the
poor fool, gone mad from the strain, back
to safety—and, probably, the lunatic asylum.
But he paused: death would be kinder. Yet
not a bullet smote him. The battle paused,
as if in amazement. Above the sudden hush
the only sound was that awful laughter.
Suddenly Private Burke saw the absurd-
ity of it all. He found himself laughing.
He couldn’t help it. He couldn’t stop him-
self. At last he had to heave himself, too,
above the parapet. Their laughter filled the
battlefield. And then, a hundred yards
across No-Man’s Land, a big German clum-
sily lifted himself from a concealed machine-
gun post, and added his guttural laughter
to theirs.
The infection spread. The tense-strung
thousands were unable to resist it. Their
frayed nerves were no protection against
that une'xpected invasion of the grotesque.
The whole battlefield became a frenzy of
uncontrollable laughter. Down the commu-
nication trenches the laughter swept like a
flame, back to supports and artillery posi-
tions. Stretcher-bearers had to put their
burdens down and lean helplessly against
the sides of the trenches. The groans of
the wounded slipped into feeble titters. The
gunners saw the joke; they laughed too
hard to load the shells or sight the guns.
An 0.C.-, astounded at the sudden slacken-
ing of the artillery fire and fearing a gas
attack, hurried up. But immediately he
entered the zone of laughter he broke into
guffaws. Two armies, shrieking with
laughter, was a sight too funny even for an
English officer. Millions of men, who had
done nothing for years hut kill each other,
with a pitiless scientific precision.... that
was the joke! But millions of men laughing
at themselves, laughing at a war that had
gene beyond a joke. .. .that was the greatest
jest in history !
_ Down the double line of trenches that
bisects France the awful laughter ran,
spreading north and south with the rapidity
of sound waves. It rippled to the North
Sea; it rushed to Switzerland; it sprang
across the Alps, caught the Italians and the
Austrians unaware, and spread out in great
waves to the Baltic and to Bagdad. It
surged through England and leapt the Atlan-
tic, from troopship to troopship; it beat
back and overwhelmed Germany; it took the
whole warring world by the throat and
choked it with laughter uncontrollable....
And when, in the armistice that immedi-
ately followed, the plenipotentiaries entered
the council chamber to fix up a laughing
peace, they were still chuckling.
One man’s laugh had swept a shrieking
absurdity from the globe.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Under the Lamp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I QUEST back years with a roving eye
And a boy’s bright face shines out,
A streetside lamp and a starlit sky,
Bronze beetles wheeling around on high,
A whirl of traffic, now far, now nigh,
And song and laughter and shout.
Though all but the stars above seem fled,
Through the mists of time I see
Him sitting there with his feet outspread,
His cap awry on his curly head,
By right of the things he did and said
The chief of our company.
’Twas. he that stole the urchins’ toys,
Arid called it but a joke,
And counted it the first of joys
To pinch the girls and punch the boys,
And fill the street with cheerful noise
And tease the godly folk.
His talk was all of Long Ago
And great adventuring;
He lived in Rags-and-Tatters Row,
His mother had no gems to show,
His father was a bottle-oh,
And still he was our king.
For one of such heroic mould,
So void of mortal fear,
What did the teeming future hold?
We asked, and answered : “Spanish gold,
The cutlass of a pirate bold,
A bearded buccaneer!”
For in the street-lamp’s pool of light,
Curls back-blown by the breeze,
He’d fight a most amazing fight, ’
And put the swarthy Dons to flight
A ship to left, a ship to right,
Broadsiding them at ease.
Or, anchored by a fringed lagoon
Of coral and of gold,
He’d land his men beneath the moon
To dig for ingot and doubloon,
While in a slow and silken swoon
Sea breakers shoreward rolled.
Alas! the striking of a clock
ould end our hour of grace ;
Or down the street a sudden knock,
A shooting bolt, a turning lock,
Would spoil his golden talk, and. shock
Us back to time and place.
We parted not to meet again,
But as the stars above
Are plain to me, this much is plain—
He never sailed the Spanish Main,
Nor chased the homing ships of Spain,
Nor dug for treasure-trove.
No doubt he earns his modest due,
The same as you and I,
When, truth to tell, if dreams came true,
He should be dancing down the blue
On a rakish craft with a bearded crew,
And a pirate flag on high.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


r -
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
»
\
The
American
Indian—
used to pull out the
hairs on his face to
prevent the growth
of a beard. Even such
torture is almost
preferable to the use
of some shaving
soaps of today.
If your face burns
shaving—if the
lather dries before you are through, or if you have
to soften the beard by “rubbing in|” you are using
the wrong shaving preparation.
SHAVING CREAM
(IN A COLLAPSIBLE TUBE)
not only softens the beard, but leaves a cooling effect upon the skin-
makes, a smooth, thick lather which does not dry.
Once used, .always used — "MENNEN’S”
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS and STORES
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z,
109 Pitt St., Sydney, N. S. W.
Trade Mara
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN.
“I've Struck It—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the' time, and makes the business a.
pleasure. ‘-‘The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge. •
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
First Aid to Beauty
Beecham’s Pills are Nature’s first aid to beauty. They
strengthen the digestion, create appetite, free the blood
of all impurities, clear the complexion and tone the en-
tire system. Used in every land for over sixty
Beecham’s Pills are a blessing to womankind for those
recurring ills which frequently sap the strength and un-
dermine the general health. Taken at the first signs of
derangement, Beeeham’s Pills soothe and regulate the
functions and create health, beauty and happiness by
their prompt and beneficent action.
mu
Beauty is largely a matter of health. Bright eyes,
clear skin, rosy cheeks, red lips are charms that make
the plainest features attractive. These are the secret
of womanly beauty and Beecham’s Pills do more for the
maid or matron than any other medicine. A healthy
stomach, active liver, regular bowels, sound sleep and
clear complexion are the reward of every woman who
lives reasonably, eats moderately and takes Beecham’s
Pills when there are symtoms that indicate any
disturbance of the stomach, liver or bowels.
Clear the Complexion
Sold everywhere in boxes, labelled ls-3d and 3s-od.
The BEST-MADE
in the
would work inefficiently if its Sparking
Plugs were unsatisfactory.
Our Sparking Plugs
are the product of the
Best English and
American Manufacturers
And we Guarantee Satisfaction.
LODGE Sparking Plugs, in Metric, Jin., % x 18, A.L.A.M., 5/- each.
„ „ „ for “Fords,” 5/- each.
SPHINX „ „ 3 point in Metric, and Jin., 3/9 each.
„ . „ „ „ in x 18, 3/9 each.
CHAMPION Sparking Plugs, “Ford X,” 3/3 ea.; Hy. Duty, 3/3 ea.;
Hy. Stone, 5/- ea.; in Metric, Jin. -f x 18.
„ „ „ “Reliance,” Sparks in Water, 5/6 ea,;
Platinum Points, 6/6 ea.
REFLEX „ „ “No. 1,” S/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Ex-
tended,” 3/3 ea.
„ „ „ No. 1 Mica, 3/9; “Giant” Mica, 5/- ea.
MOSIiER „ „ “Vesuvius” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz,
4/6; Ordinary, 4/6.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST. SPECIAL PRICES FOR QUANTITIES.
Robert C. Swan ®. Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. (2
STEEL CASTINGS—SpeciaI Good Quality
<>:
m
CP;
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
Street
Richmond, Victoria.


SlMancrovit
LEATHER
iEUfINC
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
* ‘MAN GKO VITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
Trade Mark
*JB£L CfCT
m
CAPITAL
“ULTRA CAPITAL!”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE.
ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle U Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Dannemora Steel Works, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
Fx3" i;'x3"f x3' '>l Ax-4
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LUL
379 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17:
N.S.IV. Railways*
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and'
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD IE & CO. f
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle. [1
SOMETHING
BETTER!
If Engineers and Steam-pis a'. Owners would only
realise the importance of EFFICIENTLY insulating
their Boilers, Steam Pipes, etc., more attention might
be paid to this particular matter. Great economies
can be effected in this direction, in some cases the coal
consumption being reduced as much as 50%. But the
insulating material must be of the very best.
Carbonate of Magnesia is to-day recognised as the best
non-conductor of heat. Newall’s Coverings are com-
posed of 85% of this material, and 15% Asbestos —the
Asbestos being used for binding purposes only—and in
addition possess innumerable advantages over all other
forms of lagging. Newall’s Coverings are used, practi-
cally exclusively, by the British Admiralty, N.S.W.
and Victorian Governments, and have been used
throughout the Ultimo, White Bay, Melbourne, Perth
and Canberra Power Stations.
“NEWALL’S” MAGNESIA
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
SECTIONAL. FOR PIPE, BENDS, TEES & FLANGES.
PLASTIC FOR BOILERS, HEATERS, etc.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
PERMASITE
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
PAINTS
"■
HIGH
GRADE
Dry Colors
Oxides
Ochres
Whiting:.
VARLINE
f
GLUE t
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO.
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
PTY. LTD.,
[2
£•
QPt
4
O
tOAW
o
o
y
vT
&
*
T
sfciSTttt£2
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliati||? repaired by Brazing: with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat neeessary to weld destroys east-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS,
NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
Cast-Iron Brazing: Co. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Victoria.
Something Like a Record!
Over 250 “Big Chief’! and “Field W” Oil Engines
working in ONE district in New South Wales• -
,Y W •-•' V-
-9
&
The Engineers’ Depot,
These engines were not
boomed and boosted on the
market, but made their way
by SHEER MERIT only.
Simple, economical and
dependable at all times. The
only fool-proof proposition
on the market. Every engine
thoroughly tested before
despatch.
Guarantee against defective
parts.
EASY TERMS throughout N.S.W.
R.L.ScnittoftSCo. L td :
161 CiARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
w
i-.
§|f j
£4
***s*s
Phi!
assess
WmM
.
I
Portable Shearing Plant
12—3 or 4 STANDS.
Shears are Friction Driven off Engine Flywheels.
READ WHAT USEP-S SAY—
“I am very pleased With the plant and think she is the best and simplest thing I’ve ever
seen,” writes Mr. LES CAPEL, Gorian, Wee Waa.
‘‘She went splendidly. I shore 7000 sheep and have since cut 40 tons of chaff with
Engine.”—Mr. S. MARTIN, Bank, Delegate.
“For anyone without a proper shed this plant is an ideal one.”—• Mr. DON CAMPBELL,
Kyle, Warialda.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
DANGAR, GEDYE § CO. Ltd., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
THE SOLUTION OF VALVE TROUBLES
lies in the adoption of the “EVERLASTING VALVE.”
It will often save its own cost during the first month of service and thereafter become a producer.
A few uses for Everlasting Valves :
Acid Lines, Boiler blow=off, Chemical Manufactures, Hydraulic
Service, Laundries,. Mines, Ships’ Boilers, Traction Engines.
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
EVERY VALVE TESTED TO 30Qtb. PRESSURE.
13
O
Section of Value.
Manufactured only (under license) by
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Camperdown. City Office: Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
