

THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
3
R. Car. WATKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, SycXxioy,
. . —FOR— ,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining- Requisites.
Specialty : AUC IIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
s^yrt
«3tplo«
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest interest.
N-S-V MONT DE HETE-D&I-O’D'P
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building,
'
And at
Telephone: City 0325,
] 8(» - Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
20 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
815-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
1 FIFTY PAGE BOOK POST FREE
Sleep in on
outdoors
IN COMFORT
Try our
PATENT BED
FOR HOTELS
FLATS, AND
Bungalows
oscillating wall
REVOLVES IN
22 INCHES.
BED CO..
m
<3
jHuft'orf’d
Fiisco J» j?ic.”
HomdA Bacon
■Safte"
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Persona! attention a feature of the business.
Officesj _44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY^
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
J
Tablets
fo, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
- ' ii." . " ■
i
i
m
The BEST VALUE in OIL ENGINES
" 1 ■ Pfftrurahle Only at SCRUTTQIM’S. - ■
“FIELD,” “W” and “BIG CHIEF”
(America’s
Best)
ALL SIZES FROM to 12-b.p.
Full Stocks of Duplicate Parts Available but Seldom Required.
Every Engine Thoroughly Tested Before Despatch.
Cash or Easy Terms in N.S.W. only. Catalogs Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD., 161 Clarence Street, Sydney
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
Extra
Special
, S.V.O.
REMINGTON U.M.C
m
m
m.
Rifles and Cartridges Give Entire Satisfaction.
REMINGTON U.M.C. CARTRIDGES are adapted to all Standard Makes of Firearms.
REMINGTON U.M.C. FIREARMS are adapted to all Makes of Cartridges.
Distributors — Write for Catalog “A.”
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD, 499-501 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE.
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshnes^t^^h^Mouth.
A Concentrate .i Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
- J a
FRF7QMF
LAVENDER
The Bulletin
VoL 38.—N0. 1963.]
[Thursday, September 27, 1917,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


IS A PUBLIC SERVICE OP VITAL IMPORTANCE TO YOU.
A British spirit of special value to all those suffering from Rheumatism,
kidnev complaints and kindred ailments. GILBEY’S DRt GIN is specially
recommended by the medical profession as a preventive and a cure.
DISTINCTLY DEMAND “GILBEY’S” Refuse Substitutes.
TUCKER & CO.. SYDNEY. Sole Agents for N.S.W. [2
THe Mouth, a Gateway for Disease.
fhe e hmmn h m V o„th rO J= e 1 f° n< ; 1 . usivel y tha t no fewer than 38 different infections may be traced to
it is here thit nr ?■ starting point. The mouth thus being a gateway for the entrance of Disease,
it is here that precautions are most necessary.
Jk
iHHiIiH
s»
A The Larynx, or
Organ of the voice.
13. The Trachea,
or Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
HUDSON’S
eumenthol
JUJUBES
Are the most powerful, safe, and pleasant
Germicide and Antiseptic known. Being destruc-
tive to all organisms which give rise to infec-
tious diseases, they keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the I ,e "
vention of Consumption.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. TINS. 1/6.
The Red Page
THE PATROL.
Five men over the parapet, with a one-star
loot i)i charge,
Stumbling ahuig tfrpvgh the litter and muck
an* rip-yittirjjieiud aad large,
Hooktijz %-iiyhe clutching wire os.
JmjpjpTygle thra.&h the gap,
Tw'it'prf patrol j-i® No-Man’s-Land, and
ckanygS&iru hap.
r ~OVer and through the
< \ rusty wjirj£ , y
all good things, fellow-
:»shW light and fire;
bully-tin a Judas as we
pass,
At every star-shell, face to earth upon the
sodden grass.
From Misery Farm to Seven Trees it’s safe
enough to go,
But it’s belly-crawl down Dead Man’s Ditch,
half choked with grimy snow.
Then back beside the grass-grown road —
Watch out ! They’ve got' it set! —
To where B Company’s listening post lies
shivering in the wet.
All tlu> dark’s a mystery, and every breath’s
a threat —
I’ve forgotten many a thing, but this I
sha’n’t forget,
A crawl by night in No-Man’s-Land, with
never a sight or sound,
Except the flares and the rifle-flash and thy
blind death whimpering round.
And I have failed at many a task, but this
one thing.l’ve learned:
It’s little things make Paradise —like three
hours' doss well earned,
A fire of coke in a battered pail, and a gulp
of ration rum,
Or a gobbled meal of bully and mud, with
the guns for a moment dumb.
And horror’s not from the terrible things—
men torn to rags by a shell.
And the whole trench swimming in blood and
slush, like a butcher’s shop in hell:
It’s silence and night and the smell of the
dead that shake a man to the soul.
From Misery Farm to Dead Man’s Ditch on
a “Nil report” patrol.
Five men back to the trench again, with a
one-sfar loot in charge,
Stumbling over the rusty tins and cursing
blind and large. *
Enter the trench-log up to date by a gutter-
ing candle's flare!
“No report ” (save that hell is dark, and we
have just been there).
J. H. KNIGHT-ADKIN in London SPECTATOR.
War
11. Perry Robinson, London Times war-
correspondent, using his despatches as a
basis, gives a consecutive narrative of the
Battle of the Somme, under the title, The
Turning Point (Heinemann, per Sydney
Book Club). He thinks that Germany
threw away all chance of final victory by
not using all her strength in the first year
of the war, with®dds at least fite to one
in her favor, to crush her enemies on the
western front. It will be news to many
that prior to the Somme push profound mis-
givings of its success were shared by practi-
cally every man in the army. The British
army in France felt like a small boy who
’ a year and a half by a
and who was suddenly
ig enough now, and that
He would have liked to
he was big enough to
v. y of him; but there could
oe >rdun called and Russia
called —so he went in, very distrustful of
his own strength, but with his heart sound.
To his surprise he found himself the winner,
though he has not yet managed to administer
the knockout blow. Yet from that turning-
point in 1916 the Hun has done nothing on
the west front but advance backwards. He
had to be pushed, but he went.
How grim and awful the Allies’ advance
was the author makes clear. Every day the
fighting was terribly intensive; on a single
acre of ground vast battles were fought.
And though there is a certain monotony in
this correspondent’s detailed description of
each of these battles —each of them a vic-
tory—the cumulative effect is tremendously
impressive. The moral effect of the results
attained by our army in 1916 became obvi-
ous in the alteration of Germany’s point of
view; Germany no more talked of victory,
merely of resistance: and the new British
army knew itself to be superior.
Robinson writes.: “You who are mourning
need have no misgivings. In so far as pride
can console grief, you have consolation to
the full. Your boy behaved magnificently.
Perhaps you will say that I write without
having heard of him or knowing where he
fell. If he had behaved otherwise I should
have heard of him. He would have been the
one exception, and we should all have heard
of him. But there were no exceptions.”
Early in the offensive Robinson says that
our men had already won 20 battles, and in
them not one man saved his life by turning
coward. And the machine worked by clock-
work : that was the real miracle. But they
paid the price: in July the correspondent
reported that our casualties were much
heavier than those of the enemy; but after-
wards the figures were often ‘reversed, though
Robinson fiually estimates that ‘‘the total
German casualties were not less than
750,000, and that they equalled, if they did
not exceed, the combined losses of French
and British together.” So, though we lost
man for man, we lost our men advancing,
not retreating.
The conditions of fighting were so awful
that the author gives only an occasional in-
dication, as this of TrGnes W ood: ‘ln the
hot days of August so dreadful was
smell from the unburied dead —some Ger-
man, -some British —in and about the wood
that troops on first going into- the. area were,
almost to a man, made deathly sick. Many
men had to be invalided, solely from the
effects of this smell, and some were ren-
dered permanently unfit for service.” For
months after, after all the autumn rains and
into the winter, in spite of all that had been
done to clear up this charnel-house, the
atmosphere remained unspeakably noisome.
During this offensive a new method of
attack was invented and perfected. If in
the preliminary bombardment one enemy
machine-gun survived it could hold up a
battalion. If that surviving machine-gun
was enabled to get into action for a few
seconds in the interval between the end of
the artillery preparation and the infantry
attack, the attack would be shattered. . It
was necessary, therefore, that that machine-
gun should not have .those seconds. The in-
fantry attack must be practically simultane-
ous with the bombardment. There must be
no interval: “The infantry must actually be
on the spot before the bombardment lifts, on
the heels of and mixed up with their own
shells....lt is dreadful, because a certain
proportion of the attacking force must be
inevitably killed by their own guns. But it
is better that even 10 per cent, of a bat-
talion should thus sacrifice theynselves than
that the machine-guns should be given time
to mow down the whole battalion.” And it
is now becoming a commonplace for the men
on their own initiative to dash through the
dreadful spray of their own shells “into the
blue.”
Robinson proves that in trench warfare
the losses in defence are often much greater
than in attack. Throughout this history
there are the usual laudatory references to
Billjim and Harrimac: instead of quoting
them, however, let us record this English-
man’s opinion of the British Guards: “I
believe that I am voicing the unanimous sen-
timent of the army when I say that.... no
troops, taking all points of soldierly conduct
into consideration, have presumed to put
themselves before the Guards in the present
war.” Not only was our artillery more
numerous and more accurately directed, but
our gains lasted wonderfully; many fired, and
with perfect accuracy, twice and even three
times more rounds than constituted in theory,
their normal life. Robinson proclaims that
though the whole of the fighting on the
Somme was all one military operation,
measured by the standard of past wars it
was not one battle but 50 battles and 50 vic-
tories. ' “It can never again be said that
Great Britain wins her wars without ever
winning victories.... Rarely in history has
any Great Power suffered so continuous a
series of reverses as the Germans have suf-
fered here.” Twice during the operations
their whole military machine was perilously
near to breaking down.
And Robinson ends on this cheerful note:
“There may be said to be three facts which
every British non-commissioned officer and
private had always clearly in mind. First,
all the other men of his own company, bat-
talion, brigade and division are ‘blighters’—
blighters of the worst kind. Second, he
would joyously fight and die for any one of
those said ‘blighters,’ just as every one of
them would, he knows, fight and die for
him. Third, miserable and contemptible
though every man is individually, they con-
stitute in the aggregate the best and finest
company, battalion, brigade and division in
the British army, and vastly beyond com-
parison with any unit in any other army in
the world. All of which he is quite willing
to maintain and prove at any moment by
whatever violent means may be suggested to
him.”
Cinquains
SPRING’S WAY.
To-day
An azure wren
Trilled to his wife of grey
A roguish lay of love, and then....
Spring’s way!
11. AY. Stewart.
GOLD.
Gold, gold!
On honeyed sprays
The wattle-buds unfold —
Yet men in cities’ dusty ways
Seek gold!
H. AY. Stewart.
TAKING A TRENGII.
Ready.
Standing steady,
Eyes bright , bayonets fixed.
Tense, they await. Then click goes the
Kodak.
O. P. K.
The Woman of the Streets
When David Graham Phillips untimely
died lie had completed bis greatest work, but
it has waited till now for publication ; for
Susan'fiCiiox : Her Fall and Rise (Appieion,
per Dymock’s Library) marks undoubtedly
the climax of his career. It is a tremendous
book, so long that it has to be issued in tw : o
volumes of over SUO pages each —-and every
page is interesting. Undoubtedly the delay
in publication ’has rendered this novel a
little out of date ; when he conceived it an
attempt to deal frankly and honestly with
sex was a new and dangerous thing, open to
the charge of pruriency ; but since bis death
the world has seen many novels as sincere
and as frank dealing with this subject. But
none is so pure imd decent in intention, and
none so sincerely and so thoroughly covers
the subject. Phillips treats of prostitution,
but there is'no word or implication that vice
is alluring or- attractive; there is no attempt
to slur over the biblical truth that the wages
of sin are death. He does not “color up
perfectly innocuous facts of nature to make
them poisonously attractive to perverted
palates.” Phillips pleads for simple candor
and naturaluess. “Treat the sex question as
you w'ould any other question. Don’t treat
it reverently ; don't treat it rakishly. Don't
insult your intelligence and lower your moral
tone by, thinking about .either the decency
or the indeee'ney of matters that are familiar,
undeniable and unchangeable facts of life.
Don’t look on woman as mere female, but
as human being. Remember that she has a
mind and a heart as well as a body. Let us
try to be sensible about sex.... Let ns stop
lying—to others —to ourselves.”
&
Undoubtedly this novel would have been
. a stronger indictment of the economic facts
that cause prostitution if fate had not chosen
extraordinary means to cause the downfall
of Susan. She was an illegitimate child,
brought up in good surroundings, and her
love-affair, innocent and charming, is re-
garded by her guardians as proof of the
depravity they expected of her. It was really
her criminal innocence of the facts of sex
had started her on her downward course;
and for this her guardians were to blame.
But again and again chance malevolently
intervenes to keep her down. Trivial acci-
dents such as the loss of her purse and the
chance meetings with the wrong persons drive
her on her way to degradation. But Phillips
has a purpose' in this insistence upon acci-
dents : his argument is that in the lives ( of
the very poor mere mishaps, such a« the loss
of a trifling amount of money, have tremen-
dous consequences. But Susan is handi-
capped from the start. Cast out by her re-
spectable guardians, forced into a dreadful
marriage, regarding herself as an outcast,
she has less stimulus than the ordinary
woman to win her way back. The teaching
she gets is cynical, but in'her circumstances
practical. Men run things in this world, and
always- women are up against it. Hence a
woman must make men as men incidental in
her life, precisely as men who amount to
anything make women as women incidental.
She must never let her emotions hinder or
hurt or destroy her. She must use them to
help herself. But Susan, a sweet and beauti-
ful girl, lias to plumb the depths of misery
and vice before she can adopt that dreadful
creed.
Her first fall into prostitution is due
solely to her necessity to raise money to
save the life of a benefactor—and when she
returns with the money she finds him dead.
But Susan does not drift weakly into that
life. She takes the only job open, a sweated
job in the slums. It must be remembered
that the conditions in which she finds herself
—conditions almost incredible to an Aus-
tralian worker —were the conditions of tene-
ment life in the New York of 20 years ago;
and surely even in America those conditions
could not have persisted till to-day? Phillips
gives exact details of cost of food and cloth-
ing, and proves how extraordinarily difficult
it is for a tenement dweller even to exist on
her wages. “She understood now why every
girl without a family back of her, and with-
out good prospect of marriage, was revolving
the idea of becoming a street walker —not
as a hope, but as a fear.” And the utter
impossibility of privacy or personal clean-
ness in a tenement! Still she and a girl
chum struggled ou in chastity against these
appalling odds. The mothers tried to keep
their daughters from the streets, not because
of any moral feeling but from motives of
practical sense. They knew what the life
was. At last Susan and her friend are
driven to the streets. “There’s nothing- lower
than this,” they say. But Susan was to find
depths of liell infinitely more degrading.
After one experience as the mistress of a
journalist, she leaves him for motives that
would have been quixotic in a woman of less
noble character. She is. from the point of
view of the tenements, fortunate in finding
a job as a mannequin; but here again she
is expected to prostitute herself for the good
of the firm. She is driven to accept as a
basic truth that she must make the best bar-
gain she can with her beauty, since that and
her sex are all she has to offer. But every time
Susan seizes an opportunity to escape" from
her environment blind chance, or the penaltv
she pays for being of a finer fibre than her
companions of the street, hurls her again
to deeper abysses. The second volume is .an
almost wearisome catalogue of horrors Pro
bably Phillips has authority for the dreadful
details he mentions; but one feels that he
has put on Susan’s shoulders every one of the
horrors of the New York underworld. No
one woman could have suffered as she suf
fered, and survived. Fate could not have
been so malicious as David Graham PhilW
Susan drinks; and drink leads to opium’
and opium to almost inconceivable degrada-
tion ; but, as the author says, if she had' not
drugged herself she would have committed
suicide. But her experiences had sufficiently
hardened her to refuse that easy way out-
and always she had the feeling that she
would win the unequal game.
How, after a score of false starts, Susan
finds the*way up and out need not here be
told; though for once chance is kind. The
Susan that emerges is not an attractive
character ; her awful experiences have hard-
ened her; there is not one illusion from
which life has not ruthlessly stripped her;
yet fundamentally the too-innocent girl, and
the Tess of the tenements, and the polished
woman of the world are the same person.
Susan is no puppet which her author man-
ipulates to expose prostitution: she is a
character as living as Thomas Hardy’s
heroine. And the same vital force runs in
the veins of the extraordinarily varied host
of characters that people this crowded book.
Susan Lenox is emphatically not a novel
for the immature: it is just as emphatically
a sermon for the mature. For Australian
readers, however, it is vitiated by two facts:
Phillips treats of a time that is past and of a
place that is not Australia. And, probably
out of an author’s tenderness for his heroine,
he has failed to drive the last convincing
nail of his argument. He allows Susan to
escape the disease that lurks in waiting for
the street-walker. By shirking that logical
conclusion, and omitting, to pile on the head
of his persecuted heroine that final horror,
Phillips weakens the impact of his tremen-
dous tract. The storyteller sacrificed that
truth to his art.
».
“Copabella”; My half-jocular par. on
“English as she is wrote” stirred several very
serious people to round upon me, though each
of them overlooked my wish to see English
written as one speaks in criticising my
ramble on “English as it is thought.” May
I ask those serious ones, especially the peda-
gogues, another question: Are we develop-
ing for ourselves an Australian form of Eng-
lish, bastard yet legitimised? Canadian-
French is quite different from French
French. Thus a Canadian writes “Je perdu,”
instead of “J’ai perdu.” Are we cultivat-
ing a similar tired English? In my work
as a newspaper man I hear many speakers
—in court, council, at meetings and on the
platform—and I notice the growing fre-
quency of phrases like “I been there” and
“I done it.” and so forth. Not, of course,
by the cultured, but by ordinary decently-
educated citizens holding responsible posi-
tions, citizens by their age State-school
taught. Another popular solecism is the
double-negative. Only last week I heard a
well-spoken witness of about 19 tell the
P.M. that “he never went to no house,”
and the prosecuting detective counter with
the statement that he “seen him there.” My
children invariably call the letter H
“haiteh”: they tell me they are so taught.
They also say “Between you and I.” “It is
me,” and “Mother sent Mary and I.” They
call “going” goivan and they say bacon for
“baking.” They never dream of aspirating
the “w” in when, what or whip, and they
give the 011 or 01c compound vow 7 el a weird
catlike triphthongal sound — ee-ali-oh! Yet
they say they have never been corrected *by
anyone but me—and their attitude to my
attitude is exhibited (in my absence and to
their mother) in a subtly-humorous and
greatly laugh-provoking game called "Talk-
ing like Father.” These queer speech con-
tortions jar on me, but of course if they are
becoming classical in State-school English I
won't growl. .. .a few 7 short years and we
"pommies” will have passed on and there
will be none to find fault where only Aus-
tralians speak Australian. A local ped.
tells me English as a subject does not enter
the S.S. curriculum below 7 the 7th grade—
which perhaps accounts for the ow in the
“cocoanut.” It can hardly be hoped to
knock out in one last grade what has been
ingrained outside school hours and neglected
inside them from Primary A to Seven.
“Quill” complains that this page “clamorously
exhorts people to write as they speak.” “Quid
wrongly identifying this page with the opinions or
some of its contributors.
“What does Billjim read ?” Pte. H. Dickinson, some-
where east o’ Suez, in reply:—
When reading matter was very scarce I have seen
Billjim studying jam-tin labels, or the war news —
A referendum would pan out like this -
Letters from Home and Beauty, 50 per cent, votes.
A certain Australian paper, 25 per cent. Other Aus-
tralian rags (just because they are Australian), 1°
per cent. Yarns wherein strong men stoush up ■’
treat, 5 per cent. Humorous helpings, 5 per cent.
• No votes recorded for any of these
Love yarns, army rules ami regs., Bible.
What Billjim snorts at,
“Official: The ‘lmperial’ Ixhino Corps carried
through, etc., etc.” (Bill knows who was tne
carrier.)
He grins at seeing this: “There will be no •
representative at the forthcoming Imperial Conter-
ence owing to the state, etc., etc.” (There is om
word that is going to get a tottering time when
Bill gets back— Anglo.)


w aae
ANTHONY HORDERNS' for THE SUMMER FASHIONS
FASHIONABLE
COATS.
No. 0108.—Smartly-cut Coat of
Natural Assam Silk, large step collar and
levers; the cuffs, also back and front of
Coat, ornamented fancy cable stitchings to
tone, pleatings on hips to give new ful-
ness, sash at waist £5/_
No. 0658. — Striking Dust Coat of
Natural Assam Silk, full make, set-in
sleeves, large cape collar, cuffs and hem
of skirt trimmed Black cable stitchings,
giving check border effect .... £5/5/-
No. 3046.—Stylish Seven-eighth
Coat of Chiffon Taffeta, the large, fash-
ionable collar, cuffs and Dorothy Brunton
pockets relieved narrow facings of stitched
contrast Silk, smartly belted back and
front, in Burgundy, Nigger or Navy shades,
also Black £6/6/-
No. 0182. — Smart Coat of Soft Chif-
fon Taffeta, large, square collar, trimmed
rows of cable stitchings, box-pleated effect
at back, with fancy stitched belt at sides
to ease slightly into figure, new satchel
pockets, soft shades of Nigger, Vieux
Rose and Black 84/-
No. 0428.—Dressy Assam Silk
Coat, set-in sleeves with smart strapped
cuffs; large collar and bag pockets are
handsomely embroidered, narrow strappings
of Self at waist 89 /6
No. 0128.—Handsome Dust Wrap
of Natural Assam Silk, full length, up-to-
date collar, cuffs and satchel pockets, orna-
mented rows of cable stitchings, belt at
back has Oriental buckle, finished sash at
front 84/- .
No. 968.—Useful Motor or Driving
Coat of extra-quality Assam Silk, full
seven-eighth length, wide welted inset
sleeves, smart box-pleated back, shaped
patch pockets, ribbon belt at waist 75/-
New Goars in c Tus.sorecs As<sam
frt AVT/JONV //ORD£mS
3046
oosa
J? 6
1 ■;
0/08
-C5
:.<m
r.
0132
o*2B
81/
0/0
89.
Sot}
An examination of the New Styles illustrated in our
SPRING and SUMMER FASHION CATALOGUE—
posted free on request—emphasises that Ladies need not
necessarily pay heavily to keep up the Race of Fashion. It
is an Authoritative Guide to the Styles that are to prevail.
175
935
22/6
32/6
5-t
915
33/6
\
942/
2fi/b
. -
**•
**
72
*4*
i
«
W
N
52 2/
J//6
555
216
26/6
SUOJSPDDQ JJ9
, Anthony
a Horderns
No. 9421. Ninon Blouse, mounted over Net, with
Crepe Collar, trimmed Lace and daintily finished
stitching, Black and all new shades 28/6
No. 2351. — Japanese Silk Blouse, in ivory or
Black, showing the latest style, fastening large Pearl
Buttons 21 / -
No. 34. — Ninon Blouse, in contrasting shades,
mounted over Japanese Silk, fichu and frill, finished
hemstitching 27 /II
No, 2!)1. Washing Satin Blouse, with smart Sailor collar, fronts
mil pockets, finished hemstitching 26/6
No. 915.—Ninon and Taffeta Silk Blouse, with Sailor collar,
finiai'ed Self or contrasting shades of Silk Embroidery .‘l5/6
No. 835. Crepe Georgette Blouse, in a very attractive style,
with basque, prettily hand-embroidered 32/6
No. 7221. — Georgette Crepe Blouse, in Ivory,
trimmed contrasting shades, with new hemstitched Vest
and Collar, trimmed small Pearl Buttons.... 37/6
No. 5221.—Crepe-de-Chine Blouse, with new square Collar and
front, fastened Crochet Buttons 31 /6
No. 175. Net Blouse, in Ivory or Paris shades, trimmed with lace
and ribbon, with new Sailor Collar 22/6
No. 555. — Crepe-de-Chine Blouse, sleeveless jumper style, fasten-
ing on shoulder, finished corded waist and hand-embroidered
front 27/6
Proper Corseting assures
a graceful figure. Ladies
should make a point of send-
ing for our Illustrated Price
List of IZOD’S CORSETS
—Posted Free. These Cor-
sets embrace points of
superiority, and are guar-
anteed by us to Wash, and
not to Break, Rust or Tear.
If a pair does not stand this
test we will replace it.
Prices from 4/11. There
is a model for every type of
figure.
Customers Ordering by
Post are treated in the same
way as if they bought at the
counters. The same prices
are charged, and selections
are made by experienced
salesmen from the same
stocks. Everything sent to
the Country is carefully
packed, and withal there is
the charm of economy
brought about by the influ-
ence of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Be wise. Pop your orders
in the post and reap the full
benefit of our unique system
of spot-cash trading.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


JRjrles and Cartridges
“SURE I USE ’EM!
I’ve been usin’ ’em
for a number of
years and expect
to continue to, as
they always do
the business.”
Ask any dyed-in-the-
wool sportsman about
Winchester rifles and
cartridges and that’s
about what he’ll tell you.
They are made in various
sizes for all kinds of
& shooting and y®u’ll get
them if you ask for
!THE BRANDS
FoimtamPen
de
Watermans
22
3
JA
m
The pen he used
in the Trenches
he is using now in the hospital.
Through that last gallant charge and
through many a tough day’s fighting
before, that pen reposed in his pocket
ready for the moment when it, too,
should come into action. What a boon
it has been to him ! Always ready, the
instant he wanted to write, no matter
where he was, his Waterman’s Ideal
never failed him. If you want to do your
friend on Active Service a real kindness,
send him a Waterman’s Ideal, Safety
type , the best type for soldiers.
Three types —Regular, Safety,
and Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan,
Corner,
London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FHEF..
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium xcin without
lifting a hand ?
HUDSON
HUDSON
SUPER
S PER
SIX
MX
PLENTY OF POWER in HUDSON CLOSED CARS
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motor carries the
Hudson closed cars with ease. None of the sluggishness so common to most
cars of this type is found in the Hudson.
Hudson Limousines, Town Cars and Landaus are masterpieces of design.
In beauty and luxury they are distinctive. Many cars that cost more do not
equal them.
On the boulevards of all the leading American cities and throughout the world
you see Hudsons. They are the choice of fine car owners.
Dalgety &». Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide,
Johnson Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J’ hrien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address : HUDSON CAR— DETROIT.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands ot' people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease: Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, puffiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don't waste a single hour. Do to your
kidiiey&BladderPiLlSH
I These Pills also act on the liver.
|L NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE » '•*§
js^Oi'My-GT
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 'Ja.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism oy any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot-—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief —every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or bow badly
you have sulfered.
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT v
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prnut it Co.. 229 Strand. London.
&$:
* %4\
fir
n ®
l«*
jr?* UV
I*
PStlvXiiSfc
I €ll
fe
-V
«?•
*■“{
WftSSS
If Dr. Allen's Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
When Your Child’s Throat is Sore!
That’s a 4 ‘ danger sign ” ! It tells you of deadly' germs attacking the
tender respiratory organs. Once let them get
down into the bronchial tubes or lungs, then
the dread croup or perhaps pneumonia may
endanger life. At the first indication
give Bonnington’s Irish Moss,! The
thing ts to get this magnificent remedy
right to the spot at once I
Prized by Mother* for their Children for Whoop-
ing Cough, Croup, or any throat weaknes*. Be
sure it s Bonnington's. Two Sizes, 1/6 and 2 6
r
Jckniuctok >
RISK MOSS
CHRISTIE 3
SPECMLESE
TWO
L /NES
S
I#
#5
WQITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNLY
LC FOOTER § T NEWCASTLE
A beautiful
musical instrument
The Edison Amberola 75
No matter which Edi-
son Phonograph you
purchase you will have
every reason to be
more than satisfied.
The “Ambcrola” 75,
illustrated, is an in-
strument of a very
high standard of ex-
cellence, and one that
will enable you to
enjoy the choicest
music, played per-
fectly.
Stands over 40in. high,
has three large
drawers for records,
and is available in
either golden oak or
mahogany finish. Price
£24.
Call on the nearest
Edison dealer for
demonstration, or write
direct for illustrated
catalog, post free.
m
nnivr
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
IJ-p
Firestone Specialist*
build tremendousstrength
into this tube the exclusive
Firestone Way. Finest quality
rubber is piled layer on layer
to a stout wajl of resistance
which means long, depend-
able wear.
Firestone Red Inner Tubes are
cured by the famous antimony
method to a remarkable heat-
resistance. And their density
prevents leakage, keeps the
air and holds the shape.
TYRES
This is the famous brand which)
in justice to our own standards,
we recommend to our patrons.
Equip for safety, comfort and
saving.
Grimier, Ltd., Sydney,
New South Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria;
and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia.
Anderson k Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Ltd., Brisbane,
Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
jt Wanganui and Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
Writs for illustrated Litenatmrm
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring.
Spring warms the young gum shoots to
madder-brown
And trickles green on every ridge and road ;
And here and there a yellow eye looks up
Full to the lids with sun —some wayside
flow 7 er
Which is the tiny alphabet of Spring. A
bird
Frees to the scented air its tithe of song ;
All Nature cries, “Give of your happiness,
For Spring comes, claiming joy with sunny
hands!”
But what have I out of my Wintry heart
To give to this wild gypsy who is Spring?
She counts a tear no tribute, and a laugh
Is language I forgot a week ago
When I knew r that a boy lay dead in France.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
In No Woman’s Land.
His head was on his arms, and they, like it,
Were still. His brave, brown eyes, no
longer lit
With passionate, pure fire, fluttered in
death ;
And a faint mist mixed w T ith his parting
breath.
The young moon came. She moved in folds
of light
Across the blood-red field; and through the
night
He heard the shadow of her white feet glide
Like music in a dream. She sought his side.
Upon her milk-white breast she took his
head,
And kissed his mouth. “My love,” his cold
lips said....
And with her loose, sweet hair she shrouded
all
His limbs. He smiled. He died.... White
gleamed his pall.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
A Midsummer Day’s Dream.
Dear heart, among the woods to-day,
There, where the shadowed trunks between.
One peacock-blue amid the green,
Dazzled the many-twinkling bay,
Much as your hair’s translucent gold
Gleamed undei-neath your hat-brim’s fold —
Even as I watched your slender grace,
t Your slim, sweet body with its round
Smooth curves of hip and bosom, crowned
With your rose-flushed and smiling face,
And eyes half wondering at me
Regarding you so silently,
Some secret woodland magic fell:
Upon my eyes a vision broke
Of grey-green olive-woods and oak
That framed the blue Sicilian swell.
Again in age-old Sicily
You stood at gaze and smiled at me!
Yes, you! the very same!—and yet,
A something in your • bearing showed
Strange as the melody that flowed
From the rough oaten pipe I set
To trembling lips. Oh, but my heart
Sui’ely informed my shepherd’s art!
Oh. the wild, haunting tune I played!
Shy, step by step, more close you drew,
Until our happy arms we threw
About each other, and we stayed
Half swooning in a nameless bliss:
And all our lives meant only this.
So, through the long, still afternoon
We lay, till the tree-shadows crept
Round us, and the cicada slept,
And peered up, huge and red, the moon.
Then we arose. But first I kissed
Away the tears that like a mist
Of mingled happiness and shame
Dimmed the clear mirrors of your eyes.
And last we made a sacrifice
To Pan, watching the altar-flame
Slowly to the warm night aspire,
An amber image of desire —
Dead now how many a thousand years !...,
Your laughter broke the spell: but still
The vision lingers, and the shrill
Pipe-music echoes in my ears.
O golden girl of my delight.
,io t altar shall we build to-night?
N.S.W.
F. S. BURNELL.
Eheu!
Whene’er I have a cherished plan
Befitting such a gentleman
As I am (don’t you think so?),
Whene’er I have a darling scheme
That far transcends the heights of dream
(You're wrong, although you think so)
Whene’er I say, “To-morrow night,
Out-anchoring every anchorite,
I’ll gild my name with glory,
And while I may I will be great,
For I have heard staid persons state
That fame is transitory”—
Whenever I’ve a scheme like that,
If I delay to get it pat,
Or inclination tarries,
Whenever I’ve a splendid plan
That hopelessly miscarries,
As I’m a Christian gentleman
It’s due to Mrs. Harris.
The moral’s surely very clear.
It is that while we linger here
And riot or repine,
We’d have a lot more fun in life
If each one had some other wife
To be his valentine.
I see it proved with emphasis
In heaps and heaps of instances
When I go out to dine.
Smith gets on well with Mrs. Brown,
And Mrs. Smith, when Black’s in town,
How doth she rise and shine!
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


PERDRIAU RUBBER HOSE
W~'
\w
. "
RUBBER BELTING.
The largest endless rubber conveyor belt
ever manufactured in the world was made
by us, and is now in use at the N.S.W.
Government’s coal-loading plant at Port
Kembla.
We can supply belts for high-power driv-
ing, arid during manufacture the cotton
duck is subjected to an even strain
throughout its entire length, which re-
duces stretch when in use to a minimum.
FOR ALL PURPOSES
If you require Hose for Steam, Suction, Gas*
Water, Divers, Air Drills, Fire, Dredge Sleeves,
Pneumatic Tools, Vacuum Cleaning, Chemicals,
or for any other use whatever, we can fulfil your
requirements.
Our Factory is thoroughly equipped with all the
latest and most up-to-date machinery and is capable
of turning out any special lines at short notice.
As actual manufacturers we invite enquiries from
Engineers, Industrial Manufacturers and Produc-
ing Corporations for any Special Hose or other
Rubber Goods, and will be pleased to furnish
samples and estimates on request.
ENGINE PACKING AND JOINTINGS.
We manufacture a number of very high-
grade packings and jointings suitable for
all types of engines.
We can supply you with packings to
withstand the action of oils and grease,
and the various chemicals usually so
detrimental to anything that contains
rubber. For high pressures you can rely
upon Perdriau Packings to see you
through.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
NEWCASTLE,
PERTH.
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
X3H
Noa-
-MONa'l
VU’HEN your Grocer calls for the week’s
order, ask him to include a tin of
“ REX ”
Luncheon Cheese
Then try it on bread or biscuit.
You may spread it like butter, and eat it if
you please without butter, thereby effecting
an economy.
You’ll like the tang and the taste of this
cheese—so perfectly matured.
Dyspeptics may eat and enjoy it, because it
contains valuable digestive properties.
All Grocers sell it.
“REX” CAMP PIE
is a ready to serve meat
delicacy, packed in a
clear jelly. Great for
Sandwiches or any meal
at home.
SI
EELI
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
T d.
VONCto;
Q
JONEs
jfQCCSP-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10-12 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney,
HAVE FOR SALE AT PRE-WAR PRICES-
Rock Breakers
Rock Drills
Keystone Tools
Amalgam Retorts
Mining Steel
Engine Packing
Atlas Wrenches
Cylinder Oil
Flue Cleaners
Wilfley Springs
Bars and Augers for Farming
Sledge Hammers
Column Hoists
Ore Samplers
Battery Screens
King & Humble Safety Hooks
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
ENJOYS ENDURING FRIENDSHIP OF BUYERS.
This business and its product are blessed with a friend-
ship perhaps without parallel in the history of motor-
car manufacturing.
Because of the name it bears you may be sure that the
principle behind the car will never change a hair’s
breadth.
Dodge Brothers have only one idea in the upbuilding of
their business. That idea is to build so soundly and
so well that the goodwill which they have won will
grow and endure for ever.
A
1 1UL.
Aw
Ot
Ki
«s
k>
74 *
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 3S.—No. 1%3.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1917.
Price 60.
THE VOLUNTARY SYSTEM.
“Feelin’ pretty good again? When yer goin’ back?”


THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have lu E
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week ]or a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to ant
adduf.ss in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address ABROAD, £ 1 10s. per
annum. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the, address is specified and stamps are enclosed, But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.c., any picture
which has to be re-draun —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt..— lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Holing, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilona Kong.
Ceylon.—lT. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillic Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
tOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 21d.:
tOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 27, 1917.
AUSTRALIA.
Not very long ago there were Australians
who thought in terms of Australia. No
matter what their minds were occupied with,
there obtruded the idea of a vast island con-
tinent where a sparse population was work-
ing on a job unique in the world’s history.
There may be some of these people left, for
all this paper knows. But they are seldom
heard from; instead, loud blaring voices
are lifted in the market-place proclaiming
the glad tidings of the short cut and carrots
at tuppence a bunch. Many of those Aus-
tralians, though not all, were actively con-
nected with the Labor party in politics.
Others, and still not all, associated them-
selves with Labor because of its apparent
wide Australian vision. It is not too much
to say that its appropriation of the Aus-
tralian Nationalist ideal was the strongest
factor in making Labor a homogeneous pol-
itical and industrial force. Herein Labor
found the cement which bound it together—
something which transcended the frowsy
party struggle of the passing hours, gave
force and dignity to the movement and im-
parted vigor to the national growth. If Labor
drops that ideal, or allows it to be obscured
by the spurious doctrines of which trades
unionism is to-day appropriating the dregs
and rinsings, there will still be a future for
Australia, but it will not be the future that
Australians of the day before yesterday were
thinking about.
• • * •
With the Australian Nationalist the Com-
monwealth came first in everything. He
thought of a democracy building up a nation
where only vacancy had existed before —of a
white race working out the problems of gov-
ernment free from the social entanglements
which paralyse the people of other countries.
When he spoke of the development of indus-
try he did so because of apprehension that
unless the industrial life of the community
was developed, the very foundations of the
nation would be missing. And while he
struggled to secure the political freedom and
•Hiualitv of every citizen, he had the hope
that this would be used for the furtherance
of Australian interests and that the democ-
racy would concentrate on the vital business
of making Australia a self-contained, self-
reliant country. The size of the job before
Australia, the vastness of the territory he
found himself in, the dangers of shirking any
one of the obligations involved in the occu-
pation of an almost unpeopled continent
were considerations the Nationalist could
never separate himself from. And the rock-
bottom foundation of them all was —work !
Now the evangel of the go-slow specialist
and the general strike theorist comes to hit
Australian Nationalism right in the vitals.
Individuals may secure to themselves a pass-
ing benefit by knocking off work or by doing
as little as possible, just as a person who
happens to be one of a shipwrecked crew in
a boat may obtain nourishment by dipping
a larcenous hand into the biscuit tin. But
the benefit to the individual is an injury
to the nation. The struggle for national life
is everywhere growing greater. Australia
cannot avoid it. There are great things
happening in the world to-day. There will
be even greater things happening to-morrow.
Where can Australia hope to be if in the
most plastic period of her existence she uses
her democracy to weaken herself? The time
has come when every man ought to seriously
ask himself what Australia's interest is in
this matter of go-slow and persistent strik-
ing—to assess the relative value to the
nation of getting on with the job on hand
and of suspending operations.
* * * *
From knocking off the immediate result is
that practically every citizen who toils for a
living is made poorer, the burden of debt is
increased and the weight of subsequent tax-
ation is made heavier. Wealth that might
have been produced for distribution in what-
ever way the political intelligence of the
people might determine is lost for all time.
Economically a cessation of work sets the
country back to a stage it was at years ago.
Instead of going forward gathering strength
it starts eating its head off. Among people
in older countries where elbow-room is hard
to get and the accumulated dust of ages is
heavy on the premises, this may all matter
little. In Australia it matters everything. It
is true that human progress can never be
measured by balance-sheets nor by the out-
put of factories. But the rate at which a
nation entrenches itself in a new land can
be calculated by the expedition with which
the picks and shovels are moving. And it
cannot be forgotten that the primary under-
taking before Australia is entrenchment.
For a long time past the realisation of this
foundation fact has been fading from the
public mind. The borrowing jag has helped
to make the community forget; and the
blither of the imported windbag, armed only
with a great ignorance of this Australia of
ours, has helped some more. We can go on
along these lines perhaps, interpreting the
problems of Australia in terms appropriate
to an alien environment, but at every stage
of such a journey the hand of the spoiler
will leave its mark on the Commonwealth.
Before no people have there been such oppor-
tunities as are still before us who have our
homes in Australia. None have ever had a
more ample freedom to mould their country’s
future or to secure the largest possible meas-
ure of social justice to themselves. And none
look more like failing. Tested by the occur-
rences of the last two or three years and par-
ticularly of the last two or three months.
Australia would appear to have lost grip of
all the finer conceptions of democratic
nationhood and to be subsiding into a con-
dition of social cannibalism, heedless of the
national perils, heedless of a contract hardly
touched. liow long is it to continue? How
much longer are we to forget Australia?
How much longer are we going to submit to
be misled by m«?h who never thrilled at the
name?
THE PEOPLE AND THE WILDER-
NESS.
The most remarkable feature of the recent
strike, as far as the city of Sydney was
concerned, was the response of the country
districts to the call of the State to keep the
wheels turning. From the scattered regions
north, south and west of the big congestion
came a lot of stalwarts bent on doing as much
work as they could, who indicated by their
zeal that they had a pretty sound know-
ledge of what the crisis demanded and were
not prepared to allow the community to go
under for lack of a hard and ready shove.
At the same time the A.W.U., the biggest of
industrial unions and the one whose mem-
bers have least to do with towns and cities,
refused to take part in the upheaval. The
inference from both facts would seem to be
that the saner view of toil in its relation to
national capital is held by the whiskery
people from the country, and that the State
is safer and better served if it is in the
hands of those who are close to the soil. A
horizon of bricks is apt to narrow the men-
tal view, and the narrow view is always
the dangerous view. This makes one reason
among many why the work of Sydney
congestionists is to be deplored. Always
the city is advancing at the expense of the
country, and the fact that there are not four
or five* large seaboard towns in place of the
one huge medley of bricks around Port
Jackson causes the person of imagination to
sit up and ask how narrow the thought in
Ultimo and Waterloo is likely to be by the
time Sydney has doubled its present popu-
lation. In defiance of the geographical
features of X. S. Wales, the railway lines
drag all produce past the neglected ports at
which eommonsense would suggest that it
should be shipped, and dump everything on
the narrow sea-frontage from Woolloomoo-
loo Bay to Darling Harbor, with the result
that 10 times too many workers are herded
in that neighborhood. And all this
crowding means not only inefficiency and
loss in actual working, but a twisting and
warping of the mental outlook of the people
when the State is under consideration.
Where the population is densest the politi-
cal intelligence is. generally speaking, thin-
nest : so that congestion must always mean
rule by count of boots rather than by weight
uf thought.
But railways that take the wrong turning
are not the only cause of the lopsidedness ot
the State. In most countries there is observ-
able a drift from the rural districts to the
cities, and an unwillingness on the part ot
the people to stick to the hoe and the plough.
This is partly due to the glamor of the
streets, to the desire to he with the crowd,
to the fact that Charlie Chaplin is on
and necessary toil can be got through wit
less loss of perspiration than at the end ot
the long roads that lead from town. The
girl’s smile is apt to be more frequent, it
less permanent: and even if the beer does
not taste as well, it is much easier to get
sight of. But there are better and more
weighty reasons than these which draw the
people towards the city. As things are at
present arranged, the hardy pioneer ot the
backblocks gets a second-class deal in mat-
ters that really count. Nearness to the doc-
tor and the schoolmaster are two prime
demands of the modern citizen: and no sort
of reasoning can be advanced that mai
lessen his claim to that nearness. Ihe
pioneering spirit is not dead, as is so often
asserted, but has merely altered its. direc-
tion. The man who once took the risks of
the bush is now prepared to take the risks
of the city. In the days of big Australian
pioneering, men and women faced the wilder-
ness mostly because of the severe driving-,
force of that which lay behind them. The
towns of those days offered them nothing;
the country gave them opportunity. The
track they took was a rough one; but it
was often a choice betwen that track and
something a great deal worse. Many of the
pioneers who took on the hardest fight
against an unconquered wild have put it
on record that that fight, with the inde-
pendence it gave them, was regarded as a
joyous thing compared with what , they had
left in other lands. Now all that is altered.
A fortune may crown a life of toil in the
country, but a fair thing is to be obtained
with comparative ease in the city; and
when wife and daughter butt in with refer-
ences to the surgeon and the violin-teacher
and the electric light and young Bill’s
chance at the University, the farm changes
hands and there is one more couple looking
for a cottage in the suburbs. Nobody can
blame the citizen who makes the choice in
favor of the town; but the frequency with
which it is made becomes a national
calamity. To distribute the population of
a country and to keep at least the majority
of its citizens in close touch with the soil
is clearly to achieve something like solidity
and sanity for the State; but the problem
is barely understood by the average poli-
tician and no solution has yet been offered
in the shape of legislation. All other
things being handled with some show of
decency, the State or nation that can cause
the human tide to s t from the bricks back
to the land will have the best chance of
permanent and enduring prosperity.
The latest population statistics of N. S.
Wales suggest a possible road out. From
these it is seen that side by side with the
drift to the city there are decided move-
ments from one rural district to another.
The attractiveness of one particularly fav-
ored corner proves a rival lure to that of
the city. The rich North Coast and the
ltiverina are exercising just such a pul),
while the great Western district of the State
remains in a condition of complete stagna-
tion. To tackle the problem in earnest it
would seem from this that the State itself
must definitely take up the job of making
the neglected districts attractive. It is not
so much climatic conditions that are at
fault, nor can the blame be entirely put
upon the land monopolist. Everywhere the
climate is tolerable —much more so than
that of some northern countries, such as
Canada, where the progress of settlement
is astonishing even within measurable dis-.
tance of the Arctic circle. The big land-
owner cannot be represented as a person
shutting out with his wire fences the mob
of eager would-be settlers who clamor for
homes on the soil he puts to such slight use.
The people are not clamoring to any extent
for a share of the land except in a few
specially popular districts. What the State
must do in the near future is to provide
that the conditions of backbloek settlement
shall be such as to make a civilised society
possible. Of course, it is obvious that much
of the machinery of the city cannot possibly
be transported outback; but it is equally
obvious that by introducing system and co-
operation many of the things that count
most in the life of the town dweller can be
brought to the man on the land. Group
settlement, properly organised and carried
out on a big scale, would seem to be the
plain mode of bringing modern conveniences
to the wilderness. In America the big
railway companies showed what could be
done by forethought and plan. As the rail-
ways were pushed ahead the farms were
made. Instead of rough tracts of virgin
country, ready-made holdings were offered.
The ground was cleared and fenced,
the buildings erected, fruit-trees planted and
in some cases electric light and telephones
were installed before a single settler was
invited to purchase a block; and the scheme
paid the companies handsomely. Bv employ-
ing the same methods the State could
achieve an equal success. The homesteads
of a considerable block of land could be so
arranged that they formed for all practical
purposes a scattered township or group of
townships, making possible the common-
place conveniences of the city. The doctor
would have his place there, and the school:
social life would be something above that
of the village or the outer city suburb from
the start. The moment the choice came to
be between the attractions of the crowded
town and the fine independence of the
organised settlement, the strains would be
equalised and the country would come to
its own. At present the man of moderate
capital who goes on the land is asked to
give up too much and his wife to "give up
still more. The hardy pioneer of the past
recedes into the mythology of the daily
press: but there is any amount of room for
real __ pioneering on the part of the State
itself. The settlement of Australia’s wide
waste spaces is a matter thac calls for plan :
and only system will place the population
where it is of most use for. the development
of a continent.
"AS A HEN GATHERETH HER
CHICKENS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A startling shrill from the speaking-tube
whistle at the head of his bank brought Cap-
tain Hopcroft suddenly to his feet. Ji ( .
pushed back his chair and closed his secret
code-book with a slam.
".Talk about shell-shock,” he muttered as
he passed into his sleeping cabin. “Can’t be
much worse than whistle-shock, I should
imagine.”
’•Well?” he said into the mouthpiece.
“A fleet of vessels in convoy on the star-
board beam, sir,” replied the officer on the
bridge.
"AH fight, thank you.” The Captain
hung up the tube-end in its nickel-plated
fork and glanced through the scuttle over
his bunk. A dozen smudges of smoke were
viable along the horizon.
Captain Hopcroft slung his prismatic
glasses round his neck and went up on to
the bridge.
“Homeward-bound convoy, eh?” he said,
focussing his glasses. “Strong escort too.
evidently.”
"Yes, sir. Destroyers iid lib. Seem to
be at least one for each ship,” said the Chief-
Officer.
"M’yes,” the Captain said. “Edge her
over.... port 10 degrees there. Quarter-
master.” Then he mumbled something about
destroyers being handy about the place, and
strutted over to the corner of the bridge.
“What’s the matter with reeving-in with
that lot, eh, sir?” suggested the Chief-Offi-
cer —a being of quaint originality. "We’ve
got enough stuff aboard to feed the whole
British army for a week. I should say.
We’re a valuable proposition, sir,” he added
reflectively.
“True, IIlGGlNSON,” the Captain replied.
“But of course we can’t all be escorted.
And troops are precious.”
“But what’s the good of soldiers without
food, sir?” The Chief always argued a sub-
ject to its logical conclusion. “When I was
on leave last voyage, sir.” he continued,
“there was khaki, khaki everywhere, and not
a spud to eat.”
“Yes. it’s a knotty problem, Higginso.x,”
said the Captain. “But we’r.e not done in
yet, though, and I’m quite prepared to take
my chance again of getting through on my
own.”
The Chief cleared his throat. “How're
the Pirates off Penzance getting along now,
sir?” he asked. lie was ever a wag. -j I
“Pretty frisky, judging by the messages
‘Sparks' has been popping in to me since
yesterday,” answered the Captain. “There’s
a submarine beggar on our track ahead—re-
ported twice alreadv to-day ; sunk two ships.”
“The Saucy Sausage!” Then, after a
pause: “Any more ‘crab-pots’ floating about,
sir?”
“Well, I’m just decoding a wireless warning
re mined areas and.... submarines can be
humbugged. Higginson,” he remarked as he
descended the ladder, “but Pm afraid my
zig-zag isn’t proof against mines, eh? Keep
a sharp look-out.”
Captain Hopcroft had a fad —his “patent
zig-zag,” as he called it. He had crossed
and re-crossed the danger-zone and, having
evaded torpedoes so far, concluded that his
“patent” was infallible.
-Vs he entered his cabin he was greeted
with another shrill from the disturbing
whistle.
“Well?” he said with forced complacency.
“Cruiser’s standing over this way, sir.
the Chief reported. “Hope they don't mis-
take us for a blooming enemy raider, sir.’
“All right. I’ll come up.” The Captain
sighed. “Lord knows when I’ll get this de-
coding done,” he said, and returned to the
bridge.
“Hoist our number up, Higginson. t ||f j
four flags fluttered up to the triatic stay and
the large Bed Ensign aft amply proclaimed
their nationality.
The low-lying cruiser, with the usual pen-
nants —“E.C.” —streaming out from her sig-
nal yard, cut prettily through the water with
her crescent-shaped bow, and was soon with-
in hailing distance. Quickly ascertaining
the ports of departure and destination of the
food-ship, the order came across from the
man-of-war’s bridge :—
Ardathia take up station four cables to port of
the convoy.
“Aye, aye, sir,” shouted Captain Hop-
croft, who promptly gave the necessary
orders to “close” the convoy.
“Telepathy, sir, that’s what I call a
mental telepathy, sir,” chortled the Chief
The Captain laughed. "Looks like i .
Higginson,” he said. “Most unusual occur-
rence.” ,
The day had been fine and sunny, thong >
a Channel haze, hanging over the sea, ren-
dered it difficult to see objects at any grea
distance. The ships proceeded in an
abreast and swung together, zig-zagging 1
port and starboard as though actuated n.
some common lever. Captain Hopcroft ai
not approve of a mauceuvre so inferior to ni
“patent.” but being now under the a }-''
protecting arm he reluctantly conformed
its jiggitty movements.
As everything appeared to be bean.»
an equal strain, to use Higginson’s favoii
phrase, the Captain slipped below once mo '
to his cabin and resumed his decoding " 1)1 •
It was short-lived. The whistle slink
again. . ..
“Well,” he drawled resignedly into
tube, “what is it now?” . »
“Strange buzzing noise on port bow, si ,
the Chief reported. “Approach of sunim <
maybe,” he added, irrepressibly. ,
“Buzzing?” The Captain hung up ,
tube. "Ears need overhauling, perhaps,
muttered as he jambed <>u his cap a
dragged up on the bridge again. ,
The Chief’s auricular sense was not de '
tive. An unmistakable bur-r-r-ing soi
grew louder and louder and, in a few seco •-
a seaplane emerged, swaying gently, from
mist. It approached in rapid flight, swoop
and skimmed finely over the Ardat
mastheads. . „ i,
“Hood job she hasn't Iron-Cross wings. •
sir?” observed HlGGTNSON craning his n ;
“She could lay an ‘egg’ on us easy enoug


The aircraft hovered over the cruiser
astern and Morsed with a bright flashing
light. Then she swerved round and flew
gracefully over the fleet. Above the burring
din could be heard the cheers from the troop-
ships as she passed along. The muffled-up
observer waved his hand over the car-side,
and in a few moments the weird and wonder-
ful craft had vanished again into the grey
evening haze.
Captain llopcroft returned to his decod-
ing. The meaningless-looking word groups
were being unravelled : “Vessels must not
approach within fire". ...A piercing shrill
again! The Captain started from his
chair. “Damn that perishing whistle!” he
shouted.
“Well, what is it now?” He spoke with
suppressed annoyance.
“Destroyer passing ahead, sir, steaming
north —eyes out, apparently.” The Captain
snatched up his glasses and went out on deck.
About half a destroyer was visible on the
hazy horizon ahead, the rest —lashed-up
spray and spume. “After that ‘Saucy
Sausage’ of yours, 1 expect, Higginson.”
he called out. “It’s somewhere over there,”
pointing to the nor’a’d.
These passing thrills were distracting, but
wireless warnings must be attended to. The
Captain settled to his work again and pro-
gressed a little further: “Five miles of the
coast in the vie ”.... Again the whistle!
Captain llopcroft groaned in despair.
“Trawler ahead, sir, blowing siren like the
wail of a lost soul. Our destroyer’s away
off to her —-something doing, sir,” said the
Chief cheerily.
The Captain hung up the tube, and, simul-
taneously, a loud explosion boomed through
the open scuttle. The whistle then fairly
screeched!
“By the Holy Rocket!” the Captain ejac-
ulated. “Well, what’s up?” he called out
anxiously.
“Destroyer’s opened fire.” (Bang!)....
“Trawler, ditto, too, sir.” (Bang!).... “See-
ing red. sir.” the Chief shouted excitedly.
Captain llopcroft dropped the speaking-
tube and dashed up on to the bridge. In the
gathering dusk two more streaks flashed out
from the destroyer’s bow gun, accompanied
by resounding reports.
“All the shots have dropped in about the
same hole, sir,” observed the Chief-Officer.
The trawler’s siren ceased blowing, and
the destroyer—now a hundred yards from
her—swung, round and reduced speed. Morse
lamps flickered agitatedly between destroy-
ers and the mothering cruiser following up
in rear of her zigzagging charges.
As the convoy drew up to the scene of
action, a dark, sinister object, whale-backed,
appeared between the destroyer and the
trawler, heaving grimly on the cold, grey
undulating ocean.
“Saucy Sausage” had done its dash!
“Saucy Sausage” had been strafed to glory
—it was floating bottom up.
CATHEAD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Billjim and the Job for All Australia.
The Federal Government is to be reinforced
by a Minister for Repatriation. It will be
a new office and, of course, an expensive
one, for it is only necessary to create a
fresh portfolio anywhere to start the accu-
mulation of Red Tape, officials and swmuk.
All this is no reason why there should not
be a Minister for Repatriation; but it is a
solid argument against setting up a fresh
revenue-consuming machine w’ithout strong
justification. In' this particular case no
such justification is to be found. Under the
scheme of repatriation to which the Federal
Parliament is committed most of the w’ork
is to devolve upon the States. The part to
be played by the Commonwealth could easily
be attended to by one or other of the numer-
ous Ministers now eating their heads off.
But the office being one in which great
powers of patronage will be exercised, especi-
ally in relation to landowners, it has a poli-
tical significance which must be made the
most, of in the interests of the party joss.
Therefore Australia can expect to see the
Department of Repatriation blossom into
a great dignity and to find a vast amount
of pose associated therewith. This paper
w’ould have no objection to a Minister of
Repatriation drawing a fine fat salary and
surrounding himself with an elaborate staff
and all the rest of it provided he was such
a Minister and the term “repatriation was
interpreted in the w’idest sense. M hat Aus-
tralia has to deal with is not a repatriation
limited to the men who have enlisted
lor service, but a financial and industiial
reconstruction covering the w’hole commu-
nity and the entire scope of Australian
government, commerce and productive
enterprise. About one in 15 of the popula-
tion has enlisted for service. The othei
14 are on the premises. They have to meet
the future and carry the burdens created bj
the war. The problems raised by considera-
tion of the returned soldier and his job
and of that general increased production
which will alone save the country trom
penury are identical. No argument can
arise regarding the duty of the nation to
the wounded, the sick and the orphan, the
obligation of the Commonwealth to the
phvsical victims of war forms one ot its
greatest responsibilities. But this business
comes strictly within the scope ot the
Defence Department and should remain
there. To throw into a new department
the job of promoting land settlement by the
fit and securing the industrial reabsorption
of those who may not yearn to become
cookies will not only tangle up the func-
tions of the Federal and State Governments,
but will obscure the fact that industrial
employment and land settlement are sub-
jects which must be dealt with in relation
to the whole body of workers. It is im-
portant that the returned soldier should b«
able to get employment—that access to land
should be easy for him. But it is not less
vital to Australia that there should be
employment for the other man and that la
should be available to all who seek it.
this is not to be the case in the days to
come, how can it he expected that Austral
will make good? If it is to be the case, bow
can it be made so by a department limited
to dealing with a fractional part of
the whole? The day before the war has
gone, never to return, and to persist in
babbling about repatriation as if it were all
only a question of how to fit a few thousand
men into farms and get the others a job, on
the assumption that peace means a “restora-
tion of normal times,” is to miss the bull’s-
eye by a mile. Repatriation of the army is
inextricably bound up with the industrial
life of all Australia and cannot be separated
from it. If Australia is going to increase
production to the extent necessary for
national salvation, all these men and more
will be wanted. If not, attempts to evade
the consequences by having a Federal
Department tempering the wind to the shorn
lamb, so to speak, with borrowed cash will
be just as futile as similar experiments witn
the same material in the past. The whole
Federal Government should be a Ministry
for Repatriation, and every step taken in
public policy by the Commonwealth and the
States should be in the direction of prepara-
tion for a new industrial era that will arrive
when the last of the hot air the country has
been living on escapes.
Australia’s Wheat Stacks and What
Next? *
There are huge accumulations of wheat In
Australia ranging from good to rotten. Some
of it is rising two years old. If 50 tramp
steamers of average tonnage were turned on
to shift it oversea they would at the end
of four years be still plugging along at
the unfinished job and three more harvests
would have been stacked up in the meantime
and another be ripening in the sun. Within
two or three months millions more bushels
will be piling up along the railways, and
instead of having a four years’ job for 50
steamers there will probably be a six years’
contract. Meanwhile what is called the
shipping situation gets worse. In five months
480 British vessels of 1600 tons and over
have been sunk, and they continue to dis-
appear at the rate of 50 a month. And it is
not only British ships that are suffering.
Bad as it is to-day, the situation must in-
evitably be worse by the end of the year.
There are millions of money at stake in this
business —the solvency of almost every wheat-
grower in the Commonwealth depends on
what happens to this wheat and the produce
of the next year or two. At present we are
blundering on in the dark. All that has
been so far done to meet the extraordinary
situation has been to plan a few silos. We
ought to know where we are and where we
shall land if we keep on the present track,
producing the present normal harvests of
wheat and making no more use of the grain
than we have been doing. In the light of
all the information that the Commonwealth
Government has and can secure. Cocky
ought to decide whether he is justified in
putting down*l2,ooo,ooo acres in wheat. So
far the Governments have encoufaged him
to plant more and still more. In one State
at least the Government has —in a vague
fashion, it is true —undertaken that he shall
get not less than 4s. a bushel for the next
two years. Is that encouragement war-
ranted in the circumstances? If not. the
sooner the country knows it the better. The
Federal Government ought to invite half-a-
dozen men into conference, lay all its facts
before them and thrash this matter out.
There is scarcely another of equal import-
ance facing us.
♦
Either Way Suits Treasurer Forrest.
If Bigjohn goes on floundering in the
present fashion The Bulletin expects him
to introduce a new tariff schedule by way of
a Bill to amend the Seamen’s Act and pro-
duce a measure to reduce the amusements
tax when the Fusion really intends to grant
a bonus on the production of goats’ whiskers.
Then after the House of Reps, has been
implored by Bigjohn to change an appro-
priation of £756,942 for landscape gardening
at Canberra into a vote of £4 6s. Sd. for
the repair of a policeman’s uniform damaged
by Adela Pankiiurst, the real policy of
the Fusion will be open for inspection. Any-
way, the proceedings connected with the
scheme for putting a poll-tax on eligibles
who had not enlisted for the war were as
hilarious as any the Federal Parliament had
encountered since G. 11. Reid supplied it
with amusement. The original idea was to
make every eligible single man or childless
widower earning £l5O a year or over pay a
super-tax with a minimum of £lO, the expla-
nation of this being that “if the individuals
concerned would not do their duty they should
not be allowed to escape from paying their
share of the cost of the war.” It was a
foolish project, as this paper pointed out
when the details were announced, first be-
cause it amounted to a scheme by which a
sort of moral exemption could be obtained
from a civic duty ; further, because the opera-
tion of the tax would hinder recruiting ; and,
finally, because the proposal was a back-
stairs' attack upon the referendum. But all
this mattered nothing to the Fusion. The
eligible-taxing proposal was brought for-
ward. Then, confronted by arguments which
would have been foreseen by a Cabinet of
postholes if it had considered the subject,
and being unable to reply, Bigjohn got
time to reconsider himself. Whereupon he
altered the scope of the scheme out of recog-
nition and produced a plan for levying a
tax of £5 in addition to income tax on every
male person from 21 to 45 who is without
a wife, whether he be eligible for service or
not, who has omitted to enlist or who hasn’t
a majority of his brothers in khaki. This
queer thing is not even that other queer
thing called a bachelor tax, because though
it taxes some bachelors it also hits up citi-
zens who have been married. Also while
it makes an exception of the person who is
ready to shed his brothers’ gore, it makes no
allowance for the bachelor with brothers who
object to shed their blood but who is unfit
for service himself. The fact is that Big-
john, like his more recent predecessors, is
simply groping about to snare all the fivers
he can, whether the appropriation rests on
any understandable principle or not. The
tax is as clumsy as a tax can be and is
another reminder that the politician is get-
ting hard pressed, and to save Propputy from
the shears will yet be driven to some mighty
strange devices.
Why Not Take Direct Action and Get It
Over?
As the Government can’t get recruits to Win
the War why not do the trick with a single
Bill and make good in one hit all pre-election
promises, pledges, undertakings and yells?
Something like this might do: —
AN ACT to regulate the winning of wars by land
or by sea and tor that purpose to prescribe
regulations relating to the termination of wars;
to prohibit the continuance of a war; to make
warlike acts and utterances an offence: and for
purposes consequent thereon and incidental
thereto.
Be it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth
of Australia in Parliament assembled and by
authority of the same as follows:
Preliminary.
1. This Act may be cited as the “War Winning
Act 1917.”
2. In this Act unless the context otherwise re-
quires—
“ War” includes fights with bayonets, residence in
trenches, artillery bombardments, bomb dropping,
submarining, invasions, battles, stunts or pushes.
“Winning” means defeating, knocking out, putting
in the boot, bringing to an end or walloping.
“Inspector” means an inspector appointed under this
Act.
“Enemy” means the other party.
“Regulations” mean the regulations.
“Governor-General” means 11. M. Fergusox.
Winning Wars.
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in any Act
relating to riots, disturbances of the peace or con-
flicts in public places, the Governor-in-Council on
being informed that a war is in progress may, upon
the advice of the Ministry that it is expedient to
bring the proceedings to a close, by notification in the
Gazett): make proclamation that the war shall be
won forthwith and that continuation thereof for a
period exceeding one calendar i onth thereafter shall
be illegal.
4. Immediately on the issue of such proclamation
an Inspector shall cause a copy thereof to be for-
warded by registered post to the enemy’s last-known
place of abode.
5. Should the enemy after the expiry of one calen-
dar month continue to drop bombs, fight with
bayonets, discharge artillery, reside in trenches or
otherwise kill, slay, maim or scare, the aforementioned
Inspector shall apply to the nearest available Court
of competent jurisdiction for a rule nisi calling upon
such enemy to show cause why he should not be
pronounced a menace to civilisation, have his terri-
tory raided and be compelled to defray the cost
thereof.
6. If after the issue of such rule an enemy is
detected by an Inspector continuing the war his terri-
tory shall be invaded when the time is ripe, and the
cost collected at the first opportunity.
7. All measures relating to invasion deemed neces-
sary by the Governor-in-Council shall be undertaken
according to the regulations and shall not be the
subject of questions in Parliament, public discus-
sion or mention in newspapers (see War Regulation
No. 97846 re death penalty without trial).
8. The Governor-General may announce in the
Gazette that the war has been won for the pur-
poses of this Act, and it shall not be competent for
any enemy or other person to raise as a defence
to any legal action a claim that the war is proceeding
either to a victorious conclusion or otherwise.
9. This Act shall remain in force until the year
a.d. 2943, when in the event of no proclamation hav-
ing been issued announcing that the war has termin-
ated the Act shall cease to exist by effluxion of time.
God Save the King!
Immediate action by the House of Reps, on
these lines will show that the country and
the Phewsion are in earnest and that Mr.
Hughes will put up with the enemy’s hum-
bug no longer.
♦
The Coal Habit.
The distant fields are still green. While
the Peacock Government is borrowing a
coal-mine from N. S. Wales, and carting
miners and other toilers 600 miles to work
it, Victoria is practically ignoring its own
coal deposits ; at any rate, it is making no
effort to develop and expand them. Worse
than that, it is ignoring those resources of
motive power that lie to its hand, cheaper
and cleaner than coal and inexhaustible.
Every year that we use coal there is so much
less left to use and the more it costs to get;
and some day—not so very far off, either —-
the end of the supply will be in sight. So we
might as well set about using now’ w’hat we
shall have to rely on then—power generated
by rivers, creeks, tides, etc. Yet when some
residents of Warrandyte mentioned this to
tw’o Victorian Ministers lately those wise-
acres treated the suggestion as a choice
specimen of rural humor. As a matter of
cold fact, however, there is sufficient power
in the Yarra running to waste day and
night, year in and year out, to light all Mel-
bourne, and supply it with at least half the
power it reauires. It isn’t only a matter
of building a weir at Warrandyte, as the
residents suggested; the beauty of such a
stream as the Yarra is that you can dam it
half a dozen times betw’een Yarra Glen and
Kew 7 , getting more and more nower from each
succeeding reservoir—a cheap, easily-trans-
formed and transmitted supply w’hicli con-
sumes nothing and impoverishes nobody and
is absolutely inexhaustible. In every size-
able river in Australia power exists and is
being allowed to run to waste —thousands
of millions of units. One potent reason
is that nobody sees dividends in it. Another
probably is that coal is dirty, and the habit
of relying on it has become ingrained.
-
If trade unions had to lose something in hard
cash when they broke an agreement, and if
no agreement w T as considered by the Arbi-
tration Court until a money guarantee w r as
put up, it might do a lot to steady things.
No doubt, such an arrangement would be
hard on new’ unions; but its absence has
proved still harder on the general public,
w’hieli has to pay all the time. That cash
deposits should be necessary to make either
a unionist or anybody else keep a promise
is, of course, a sad reflection on humanity ;
but as even such institutions as banks and
insurance societies have to submit to a
similar system, not only its value but its
necessity is evident. The striker cannot
know’ all the cost of a broken agreement end-
ing in a prolonged strike. But if there was
a deposit put up there would be at least one
item about which no mistake could be made.
The funds deposited would be lost the very
moment the agreement cracked. That would
be certain, however much of a gamble the
rest might be. And of course the employers
would be forced to make similar deposits;
and if that would keep them nearer to the
road of good faith and general virtue, no
harm would be done. Many a time they
have kept agreements in the letter and
broken them in the spirit; and a court of
equity and good conscience might have no
compunction about expressing its opinion of
such behavior by the forfeiture of all or part
of the bond-money.
The question of the agency by which bombs
are placed in the holds of vessels loaded at
Australian ports is of no greater import-
ance than the question of their origin. Evi-
dently they are first-class goods of their
kind : the Cumberland and the Port Kembla
were thoroughly well blown-up. especially
the last-named. What artist makes such
infernal machines? Are they of home manu-
facture, or are they imported like the bombs
lately seized by the police in Norway and
Sweden? And when is the Defence Depart-
ment going to give the public some evidence
of its ability to cope with the new danger
in our midst? Citizens whose business
takes them down to the sea in ships are
entitled to hear from the Government on
this point. It touches them nearly. The
fact that an offer of £4OOO reward has not
sufficed to procure information concerning
the bombs on the Cumberland suggests that
the parties concerned are solid Hun patriots,
and that a lot more internment of aliens is
necessary for the safety of seafarers here-
abouts. Conspiracy is at work everywhere
that Huns abound. “Disclosures” come to
hand from all parts of the world. But never
a warning disclosure of local conspiracy has
been made in this country. A mighty deed of
destruction ashore will have to happen, it
seems, before this fool’s paradise of unsus-
picion starts to worry.
♦
“Kopai” : The Win-by-Jaw Government
won’t hear of Conscription to keep up the
army strength, but it doesn’t mind forcing a
diluted form of it upon those who have been
fighting. One of Pearce’s pet window-dis-
plays to hide the general slackness of his
department is an Army Reserve, composed of
returned men. It isn't going very well, this
reserve: the returned discharged have for
the most part had all the army and war they
want for a while. So the Department has
placed the onus of enlisting the reserve upon
the area-officers of the A.M.F., and it tells
these ex-A.I.F. men that their area job de-
pends on the number of reservists they enlist.
The returned area-officer is thus compelled,
against all his sense of fairness, to harass
his ex-mates of Gallipoli and Pozieres into
joining up ; while the returned men have to
choose between their inclinations and caus-
ing au old pal to lose his job. It’s a sort of
Conscription by loyalty. But the cold-footers
still go free, and the Government continues
to hide its head in the sand. But it keeps its
salary-hook fi*ee.
“F t.” : Chief Sec. Donald McLeod has
promised Labor-leader Billson that there
will be a “thorough inquiry” into the case of
lately-deceased mental patient James Delmo,
a once well-known macaroni merchant of
Melbourne. A post mortem disclosed indi-
cations of violence, but the Coroner has not
been able to get an adequate explanation
from the asylum people. Present writer has
made friends of asylum warders in various
parts of the world, and they all had the same
confidential, ghastly tale to tell. In order
to keep costs down, it is the almost invari-
able practice of asylum managements to put
a large ward in charge of one or two wards-
men, sometimes as many as 40 assorted luna-
tics, for days together, having but one con-
stant attendant. Dependence on “trusties”
is the natural outcome. The way the
“trusty” deals with his rebellious fellow-
patient is to kneel on him, in considerable
numbers, while the attendant discourages the
revolutionary from further attempts at start-
ing something by (1) temporary strangula-
tion with a wet towel, the moisture prevent-
ing scratches, which tell tales; or (2) put-
ting the boot in, in the neighborhood of the
solar plexus, and avoiding the ribs as much
as possible; or (3) standing the patient up
and bumping him with the knee upon the
buttocks; or (4) plain punching below the
ribs. Of these No. 1 is used in the case of
the persistently obstreperous patient, who is
cunning and vicious and with a reputation
for “waiting for” attendants. No. 2 is em-
ployed as summary punishment for some
sudden outbreak. Nos. 3 and 4 are mostly
casual punishments for a variety of mis-
demeanors, such as talking in the ward,
walking about the ward without permission,
“giving cheek” and so on. In none of these
curative methods, of course, is there any
considerable risk of breaking bones, and no
sensible medical-man ever notices a few
bruises. The attendant, who recognises that
he would be powerless to cope with a con-
certed mob of crazy patients, always takes
good care to nip the unruly one in the bud in
the only way he finds effective. If Chief Sec.
McLeod’s “thorough inquiry” discloses the
fact that there are less than three attendants
to each ward at Yarra Bend, he need go no
further. Accidents will happen, even in the
(financially) best-regulated asylums, if the
boot happens to land among the patient’s
ribs.
“ .. ♦
“Quidam ’: The reason assigned for com-
mandeering about one-third of the price
obtainable in the open market for rabbit-
skins was that, rabbits being such an impor-
tant article of diet in Britain, the grab would
tend to decrease skin-trapping and increase
carcase-trapping. Now that shipping is not
available for the export of carcases, many
factories having closed because all available
storage space is filled with frozen bunnies, it
would be interesting to know what reason the
Government has for continuing to practi-
cally tax the skin-trapper out of 33 per cent,
of his takings. If no more carcases are
wanted, what about allowing the skin-
trapper to get what he car. while he can, or.
if financial needs warrant, shifting him from
his proud position of glorious martyrdom be-
taking 33 per cent, of everybody’s income,
including that of politicians?


MaKe Your Cough Mixture
and Save Money.
PRAISE from Mr. WILLIAM HOLMAN, Sen., Father of the
Premier of N.S.W.
The cost of cough mixture usually amounts to a considerable sum in the average
family but it need not necessarily do so. as anyone can, in a few moments, make as
tine a quality cough, cold and sore throat remedy as money can buy. All that has to
be done to make a pint of mixture is to obtain a bottle of Heenzo (Hean’s Essence)
and dilute it with water and sweeten according to easy directions printed on the label.
A pint of ordinary remedies would cost at least 12s. Heenzo (Hean’s Essence) costs
only 2s. (by post 2s. 3d.).
Proof of the efficacy of the mixture made from Ileenzo (Hean’s Essence) is found in
letters written by over 5000 users. Mr. Wm. Holman, sen., Professor of Elocution
at the Government Conservatorium of Music and father of the Premier of New South
Wales, was so pleased with Heenzo (Hean's Essence) that he wrote the following letter:
“I have been taking Heenzo (Hean’s Essence) mixture, and appreciate its beneficial
effects. I can testify’ to its being a very excellent medicine for inflammation of the
pharynx and similar complaints—bronchitis, for example.”
HEENZO (Hean's Essence) is obtainable at all reliable Chemists and
Grocers, or direct from G. W. HEAX, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
l!
©
9Si
S^cSSSS?*---
.0 •
i i
y -v..;-..;-***
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pit*
& Kins Streets, SYDNE* 1
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street. Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE. & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manaftf-
Salute!
Ouk own lads have been in it again, up to
their necks apparently; and when last heard
of they were hanging on to their gains in the
thrust beyond Ypres, and had heavily pun-
ished the counter-attacking Hun. Ihe battle
appears to have been one of considerable
magnitude, and resulted in the attacking
troops securing mastery of the greater part
at any rate of the higher ground thereabouts.
What this means in the general run ot
things is not yet so clear as that the enem\
got a more painful mauling than he or anyone
else cares about. The changed system ot
operations seems to put the Allies on a better
wicket. The old breaking-through method
pursued by one side, while the other party
waited in large numbers to receive the visita-
tion, resulted in tremendous losses to both.
With a limitation of the offensiveness to the
area blasted by artillery, conditions have
been created by which the only method ot
resistance is the counter-attack. In the
more recent fighting of the now waning symi-
mer the Germans have not succeeded m find-
ing out how to do it. On the other hand,
the Allies have not succeeded in getting
very far forward. 'Fighting has been piacti-
cally continuous for over six mouths along
the whole Western Front, and nothing much
more appears to have been settled than that
vast quantities of munitions and supplies ot
men are still in demand, and that the side
which runs short first can look for serious
trouble soou afterwards. The record of all
the lighting in this locality up to date, and
especially of the engagements iu which the
Allies have been most successful, is a warn-
ing against under-rating the unfinished part
of the job. Even if to the summer’s achieve-
ments the widest conceivable significance be
attributed, the business on hand remains one
of stupendous difficulty; for Germany is still
strong and will hang on to Belgium with all
her might. That wretched .country is the
Kaiser’s trump-card, so to speak, in both the
military and the diplomatic sense. We shall
wrest it from him; but it will be a toughei
job now that the Russian is making speeches
instead of fighting. Heaven only knows
where the Bear is, and it is not much good
trving to guess. If he is out of the soup
to-day he will probably fall in it again
to-morrow.
“J.F.LI.” (London) : Philip Gibbs, in
whose vivid war correspondence the Daily
Telegraph and Daily C'hkomcle are joint
partners, helps your Billjim to greater tame
in one of his latest despatches. He struck
a crowd of -‘tall, splendid, bronzed young
men'’ with “an easy way of speech and a
frank stare and smile and the swagger ol
boys who would tweak the Devil’s nose if he
Mood across their path, and offer him a
irink if he showed the way to easy adven-
ture of great risk.” King George witnessed
a sports exhibition by these dashing, daio-
jevil Billjims, and Gibbs, who was also look-
ing on, declares that the old-time Greek
heroes of the Olympian games “could not
have been finer in physique than these lads
from the Southern sheep-farms and the cities
of Australia.” Gibbs adds that they have
proved themselves “great soldiers who will
■ret on with their job even though the sky
.pens and rains down fire upon them.” They
rave the King a first-class display of driv-
ing with guns and limber, and a distinguished
officer of the Boyal Guards exclaimed in
idmiration: “By Jove, these beggars can t
be beaten! I have never seen better dnv-
ng.”
Re the strike of Sydney block boys and the
Lord Meagher’s alleged intimation that the
boys need never look to the Council for a job
again (B. 13/9/’l7). The Lord Meagher
says it is all wrong:—
in the first place, by resolution of Council nine
cears ago neither the Lord Mayor nor aldermen
have anything to do with the appointment or dis-
missal of block boys or any other class of labor.
The appointments rest with the heads of depait-
ments; likewise suspensions or dismissals. Any
employees who are dismissed have a right of appeal
to the Town Clerk, whose decision is final. Some
150 block boys struck, the strike lasted two days,
they were dismissed by the City Surveyor, the
Town Clerk heard appeals therein and allowed them
all back practically, with the exception of 10
wT.ose record for neglect of duty was very unsatis-
factory. So the “Working Man’s Friend” was not
interviewed by the strikers, nor asked for re-employ-
ment, nor did he refuse them work, nor did he
attempt in any way to interfere with the nine-years
regulation of the Council.
A strike-time proposal to pool all union
funds got the deaf ear. But why not?
When one lot of men are called out of their
job without a ballot, and when union after
union is called out in support of tlm first
lot, the result is exactly the same as if the
labor of these, men was pooled. If their
labor isn’t pooled, at least their idleness is.
Why not, then, pool the funds, too? And
not merely the funds in the union till, but
the funds in the stocking at home? The
man who suggested pooling union funds has
a grip oi ilie logic of the case ; but he wnsn t
game to carry it to its conclusion.
Dead in S. Aus.. after 20 years of service
as S.M. in the mining district of Wallaroo
and Moonta, J. T. Keats. Never was there
a man who stuck more steadily to one job.
He was clerk of a little Local Court at 20,
and steadily worked up. During 40 years
he has been everything possible in the
official-legal line at Wallaroo, and magis-
trate for 20. He was 68 at the end.
“N’importe”: Among the I.W.TS. mem-
bers lately presented with a sixer in
Sydney were two ex-members of the Fire
Brigade. Both were wearing helmets at
the time of the big blazes of last year. The
line lire service is not too happy at the dis-
covery, for up to the present it lias con-
sidered itself above suspicion. Incidentally,
both men were immigrants, and both had
played in the Brigade band. Well, even Nero
fiddled.
Very Rev. James Byrne, C.M., who died
at Malvern (Vic.) lately, used to be presi-
dent of St. Stanislaus College at Bathurst
(N.S.W.). He was one of the pioneers of
X-ray photography and wireless telegraphy
in the Commonwealth.
P. C. Collins, drowned when the Nerong
foundered in last week’s gale off Norah
Head (N.S.W.), was a compositor who
came from England seeking health and
found a job on The Bulletin recently, ill-
health pursued him, and it was in search or
the warmer climate of the North Coast that
he boarded the ill-fated boat. There were
few bright patches in the poor fellow s 31
years.
The first passenger ticket —No. 001 for
a journey on the East-West railway has
been issued to and used by mining-expert
F. Northey, who arrived at Port Augusta
(S.A.) from Kalgoorlie last week. It was
a broken journey, as the Westralian rail-
head is still 33 miles away from the South
Aus. ditto, and the S.A. trains do not yet
run to the bitter end of that State's section.
So, having ridden through Groperland as
far as the train would take him, Northey
hired a horse and dray with which he made
connection with the S.A. line. The entire
journey took eight days.
Having survived Lone Pine and a serious
illness, Captain Stanley Iv. Muir, with an
M.C. and a record of at least three Hun
aeroplanes brought down in fierce fights at
heavy odds, has been killed in an aviation
accident at Harlaxton, Lincolnshire. Muir,
a Euroa (Vic.) boy, joined as a private and
loft as a corporal in the 4th Light Horse.
After Gallipoli he gained a commission in
the King’s Royal Rifles, but secured a trans-
fer to the Flying Corps, in which he rose to
Flight Commander. He recently put up a
record by flying on his back for five minutes.
He was the son of John F. Muir, of Joli-
mont, and only 24 at the end.
“Hamer,” from an English camp:—
In Britain at one period of the war soldiers in
camp were told that if they wanted vegetables they
would have to grow them. So the spaces between
the huts are now all laid out in plots; and, as
every citizen who considers himself, or herself, patri-
otic, has also answered the call to cabbage, Britain
is blooming like a Chow’s garden. The results from
small patches are marvellous; and the things that
can be done on a spare roof or a window-sill make
me stare. There has been a similar activity in
fruit growing; and newspapers are now advising their
readers on methods of canning surplus fruit. It is
all going to have its effect on countries that hitherto
supplied Britain with eatables; our own country
among the number. John Bull won’t want to buy
so much tucker from us; which means, of course,
that we shall be able to buy less manufactures from
him. Wherever you look you find proof that it
will never be quite the same old world again.
A Russian communique refers to “the
denuded Front.” Bare of Bear, so to speak.
“Croson”: While the evidence given to
Victoria’s Cost of Living Commission hasn’t
so far discovered any middleman or distri-
butor decorated with a pair of wings and a
halo, it has pretty conclusively proved that
the average dairy-farmer makes less than
the average wharf-laborer and works for
longer hours. A chief reason seems to be a
lack of scientific method, so that while one
man can squeeze an average of 600 gallons
a year out of each of his cows, another can
get but 300. While the Australian average is
under 500 America gets 550, Holland 600
and the Hun used to produce 750 gals, per
cow. True, those naked figures prove little.
If cows were dieted on broccoli and cham-
pagne it is possible that each beast might
yield 1000 gals, per annum, but it wouldn’t
pay anyone. Still, the assumption that the
Hun fed his cows on such luxuries is un-
justifiable. Incidentally. Germany and the
other European countries possess, it is
reckoned, 30,000,000 fewer cows than they
did three years ago, so the outlook for Bill-
jim’s dairying dad is promising.
In the London “unwritten-law” case the
deceased Russian, “who had betrayed Mrs.
Malcolm during her husband’s absence at
the Front,” was named Baumberg, alias
Count De Borch. A telegraphic error, no
doubt. Debauch is the usual spelling.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
j “General John Regan
“School for Scandal”
, r „ c \r A tfptv's “You’re in Love”
.... Triangle Plays
“Look Who’s Here”
S: I 4CK . “The White Chrysanthemum
WIRTHS’ Hi'r'poDßOM-E “Robbery Under Arms
Town 11 l .. Evdvn Seotney & Howard White
Tivoli .... Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hovi's Theatre" Moving I’ictures
Union* Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
;?“. L 0 “Gran’dad Rudd”
Princess'*.' .' “Seven Days’ Leave”
Playhouse “The Shirker”
Tivoli . Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Yi rlli . 'loving Pictures
Britannia !!!!!!!! I. ; Moving Pictures
There are many thirgs to laugh at,
one thing to lament, in the sequel to On
Our Selection,” dramatised as “Grandad
Rudd.”* Judged by the effect of a first Mel-
bourne appearance at the King’s last Satur-
day, the comedy is entertaining on its own
account, apart from old-established pub-
lic interest in the Rudd Family. Dad and
his offspring, 20 years older than they were
in “Our Selection,” are humi.nised by age.
The wives of Dave and Joe are x*eal persons,
and the returned prodigal, Daniel Damascus
Rudd, brings a well-defined type of character
into the family circle without increasing one s
respect for it. The gags, _ wheezes and
grotesque situations are, in a general
way, less crude and more humorous
than in the original popular success;
also the strain of melodrama is lighter
and less hackneyed. Pruned of about
15 per cent, of its dialogue “Gran’dad
Rudd” might thus be a nippier play than
its progenitor. Rut the air of heartlessness
that pervaded the “Selection” is even more
pronounced in this recrudescence, owfing per-
haps to the fact that the sentimental hero
and heroine are mere shadows, and the girl
appears not unwilling to marry the dirty-
dawg capitalist of the piece at the bidding
of old-man Rudd. It is as though Grumpy
were to push his beloved grand-daughter into
matrimony with the doubtful Mr. Jarvis
instead of wanting her to pair off with his
worthy nephew. If he made that bloomer
Cyril " Maude wouldn’t be coining money
in Australia. Dad. in “Our Selec-
tion,” was the good friend and _ cham-
pion (as w*ere his wife and children)
of the heroine's virtuous sweetheart.
Gran’dad, in the sequel comedy, is the
friend and champion of the young rotter
who has somehow sneaked the patent rights
of the virtuous young sweetheart’s potato-
lifting machine. Moreover, the rest of the
family is quite prepared to dance at the
rotter’s weddinsr until a policeman arrives
to stop the approaching nuptials. This is
a striking defect in the show. There
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
J. C. Mack as a
panto, dame.
Harry Roxbury as
a porter.
are people who may not trouble to notice
it with their minds, but they feel it in their
souls. Even a farcical Australian comedy
must appeal to the sympathies of the
native-born if it is to get them by the wool.
Except for a suggestion of genuine natural
affection below the surface of Dave and his
father, all the tone of the characters is as
unkind as tlieir manners are uncouth. They
may, indeed, profess a little concern about
Mum’s health ; but, then, Mum doesn’t count
in the entertainment.
Bert Bailey’s septuagenarian Dad is col) _
vincing as far as his extravagant irasci-
bility permits, whilst Dave (Macdonald)
and his matured wife (Lilias Adeson) are
convincing, quite. Bertram as Joe is all the
better for having outgrown his monkey
tricks. Alfreds Bevan’s sketch of Mrs. Joe
is more likeable than her Mum in the other
story, and Kehoe gets a fair half-value out
of the meaty part of Daniel. Bellairs pre-
sents the same husky evildoer as before,
“LOOK WHO’S HERE," AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Sydney Hollister as Mr. Melbourne and
Cecilia Gold as Miss Sydney.
with a little of his color of wickedness
rubbed off. Harcourt Hare is a fine hollow
figure of a bush hero, and Queenie Sefton,
Duggan, Driscoll and the two small boys do
their respective bits very well. Madge
Surtees, as the angelic graud-daughter, wins
less admiration than the scenery. The
scenery is always in the picture, whereas
Miss Surtees never seems to get there at all.
S: & * *
On Saturday, at Sydney Criterion, Cyril
Maude will appear in “General John
Regan,” an Irish comedy by George A. Bir-
mingham. in which the chief character is a
statue. The Screen scene from “The School
for Scandal” will be also presented, with
“Grumpy” as Sir Peter Teazle.
All those persons who feel that they would
be better dead are advised to attend, on
Saturday, the first performance of “The New
Sin,” a curious play by Basil Hastings, with
which Sydney James commences manage-
ment at The Playhouse (Sydney). Under
this alias theatre-goers may recognise the
Tattle Theatre. On the same date "Billy
and the 23 grand pianos of “Look
Here” will move over from the Palace to the
Royal, opening at the matinee.
“You’re in Love” is -making a steady lt-
knots on the J.C.W.S. High Hope (Bosn,
Field Fisher; Chaplain, Alfred Frith). The
gale of last week that pushed over all the
old fences and hoardings in Sydney didnt
upset the nautical second act. and sleep-
walker Maude Fane sang sweetly on the enu
of the swinging boom while the wind shook
the roof of Her Majesty’s and tried to get
in for nothing.
s; * * *
Starlight and his gang are to gallop from
the police at Wirths’ Hippodrome, Sydney
on Saturday night. Bilanderson is behnu
this outbreak of “Robbery Under Arms.
Ruth Iludd swings gracefully at the head
of Sydney Tivoli bill; but the high-speed
horizontal bar-work of the quaint Gann lie
Trio, with its humorous surprises alnim-
telescoping one another, is taken more cheei-
fully by the house. The team’s make-up
helps. The aged, moth-eaten waiter whirling
and diving in mid-air, with his white apro
fluttering, is the most joyous figure, becausi
so unexpected. Reynolds and W bite co
tinue to score well with their mixture o
trick cycling, dancing and fiddling, and t
lady partner or wood nymph is just
beautiful as ever. Miss Lilyan and
Boggs exhibit a library of dances and
ity Fair costumes. The shadowgraph?
Nelusco and Hurley’s turn are both anii-
ing, and Maorilander Amy Murphy pro' ' *
a restful song interval which is needed a


w
&
0OORD&S On
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
V
DT
1 Swift & Company ltd.. Anstralasian Ajrents. 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
QrJ.Colfis Brownes
CWorodyue
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE ItKST MEDICINE FOIt
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
anil in tlie Conydi of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks PEVBUISH-
MiSS and effectually
cuts short all jittacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, US, S'-. ■> -.
Made in England.
“Jodhpur ” Riding Breeches
TO WEAR WITHOUT LEGGINGS
Tlie latest production in Riding Breeches —and a great improve-
ment. Loose round the thighs like breeches, tight round the
legs like leggings. No buttons or laces at knees. Cooler than
breeches and leggings—smarter than riding trousers. Strongly
made and well-cut from all-wool Fawn-Green 'Whipcord. Cross
and hip pockets.
Ready to Wear, 37/6
We Pay Postage.
Please state waist, inside-leg and bare-calf measurements.
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 31 1 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i
m
the baffling Creole Fashion Plate and the
strident Edna Foster have whooped and
gone.
* *
This week Clara Kimball Young is at
Sydney Crystal Palace struggling in the net
cast by Svengali (Wilton Lockaye), and in-
vesting the story of Trilby with its old
breathless charm. Sydney’s own film
beauty, Sylvia Bremer (grown somewhat
plumper), and a young man known as Sudden
Jim (Charles Ray) are linked by love and
some clothes-pegs at the Lyceum. Hoyt’s
screen is telling the story of “The Mer-
chant” with strong scenic support of water-
ways and old Venetian palaces. Shylock
Matheson Lang and Portia Hutin Britton
are most striking in the Water Court scene.
Nat Gould supplies the sporting touch with
“The Chance of a Lifetime” at the Strand, in
which another Australian girl, Queenie
Thomas, plays a strong lead. At the Globe,
Majestic and Haymarket Marie Doro dis-
penses with the Fair Rents Court, and pays
her landlord with a sheaf of lilies, thus
attaining the Heart’s Desire of every Mrs.
Detached and Semi-detached. At the same
address Margaret Illington makes a clever
first film appearance in a dual rOle. “The
Taint,” “Time Locks and Diamonds” and
“Youth” have moved on to the Lyric and
Empress respectively; and in company with
“Youth” is “The Book Agent,” in which
George Walsh sells his goods at a rate that
arouses blinding envy in the C. T. Club.
“Outcast” will soon be as good as its
word at Melbourne Royal, but at present
the last nights of that sufficiently naughty
domestic drama are not numbered.
“L'Aiglon” may be expected to arrive next
Saturday week, with Kathleen Macdonell in
the part of Nap. Bonaparte’s only child.
* * * *
“Seven Days’ Leave,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, calls public attention to the fact that
its thrills and comic relief are now in their
seventh week. The Bulletin is loth to
speak disrespectfully of a play in its seventh
week. Its grey hairs protect it.
Show Week at Melbourne Majesty’s is en-
suring wild acclaims for all that is brightest
and tunefullest in “Mr. Manhattan.” Any
melodies with a bite in them have a large
expanse of public ear to get a grip of, and
a good broad joke is sure of a guffaw.
When it is all over the audience treasures
fond memories of the. chorus only. The
girls who chant in unison are heard in the
artless, haunting melody of “Piccadilly” as
well as the opportune ragtime numbers that
save the piece on two occasions. When they
burst in with an audacious demand for Hats,
towards the end of the second act, the house
feels that they ought to get ’em. All the
same, Manhattan sends the indignant girls
empty away, remarking that he is not the
gentleman they took him for, which is an
intensely human criticism. No man of
breeding would refuse new hats to a chorus
in distress.
** * *
Melbourne Tivoli is offering matinees to
the million every day this week. The addi-
tion to the bill last Saturday was Private
Bobby Pearce, formerly of the Trenches,
whose manly voice is well drilled and goes
all right with his khaki. Otherwise the
items are all carried forward from last week.
Dame J. C. Mack and his singing lieutenant
(Raymond Loftus) fill most of the first part
with their “tabloid” panto. The unassertive
humor of Mack's she-male impersonation is
making good. His lapses of memory and
gentle twilight smile distinguish him from
all the louder Dames who have told this
country of their late husband. The Follies,
with Thelma Raye starred as leader, supply
most of the second part. If Thelma ever
takes the lead she certainly doesn’t stay
there, for Daisy and Sydney Yates, with
Rego and Welch, are in front at the finish.
The other lady is among the also-rans.
Bruce Bairnsfather, the young soldier-
artist who has turned the. war into a comic
adventure, joined the throng on Melbourne
Majestic screen last Saturday. Bruce is
directing the capers of some of his types in
several animated pages torn from Frag-
ments from France.” Other current attrac-
tions are the popular Anita Stewart and
Rudolph Cameron in a whizzing motor story,
“Clover's Rebellion.” Also Charles Ray
revels in the discovery of a new folly m
"The Clodhopper,” while Mack Swain is a
figure of extravagant jest in the Keystone
success, “His Naughty Thought.”
* sj: * *
“The Shirker,” staged by William Cosgrove
at Melbourne Playhouse last Saturday, will
probably earn the forbearance of Show-time
audiences. It is the brief tale of a sham
soldier named Pippleton who carries on the
study of poker under the pretence of being
engaged on the King’s business,.and it occa-
sionallv scores a few giggles, chiefly through
the warrior’s efforts to deaden the suspicions
o <! his purse-proud missus. In the process
of maintaining her faith at concert pitch,
the bogus majah resorts to the antics, of
many previous husbands who have been simi-
larly involved. There are times when he-
resembles a cork tossed about on the sea
of complications, but in every instance his
conduct is strictly according to the canons
of farce. In fact, the whole company in-
dulges in conventional knockabout business,
maintaining the thin joke by sheer weight
of tongue when their overworked limbs Hag.
Harry McDona, as the fraudulent Pippleton,
hurries about like a Fusionist pursued by a
bright idea, and takes his dialogue at a rush.
The character of Mrs. Pip. is not disgraced
by Miss Denise Chenival, whose chaste utter-
ance confers on the role a patent of nobility.
The job of Dr. Becker, a former friend of
the lady, was played on Saturday by a heavy
cold that had found a lodging in John
Cosgrove’s interior. An amorous house-
keeper, who tempers the fondness of her
heart with a cautious vocabulary, seethes with
flirtation in the hands of Vayleen Saislie;
and Myra Hassall, John Ford, Erick
Donnellan and William Beresford divide the
rest of the undistinguished discourse.
The menu at lloyt’s, Melbourne, this week
is a joy to fhe simple-minded. First there
is a free translation of Rider Haggard’s
“Dawn,” with a job for the coroner every
thousand feet. This film is by the new
Lucoque firm. The second course is “A
Magdalene of the Hills,” with a beautiful
threat of homicide in female form. It makes
the neurotic shudder out of their clothes.
Mabel Taliaferro plays the lovely menace
with a full hand of artillery until the goo-
goo-eyed hero puts her frenzy to sleep.
* * ❖ *
The Repertory Theatre of Adelaide de-
serves encouragement, for it was the first
of its kind to start in Australia ; and, with
a brainy wo,man at Government House, it
is now getting the social support it de-
serves. Thus it had a brilliant audience
for the revival of “Doll’s House.” The
play raises all sorts of old memories. It
is almost impossible to reconstruct nowa-
days the habit of mind of 30 years back,
which made Ibsen a name to be reviled and
screamed at. Nora’s claim to be treated as
a reasonable human being, with other inter-
ests than those of her husband and children,
was granted long ago; nor does this age
find anything shocking in a dying man telling
his friend’s wife that he has always loved
her. Yet one knows that the play had a
big influence on the British drama, and it
deserves the respect due to a pioneer. The
production was a personal triumph for
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
The Camille Trio.
Beryl Kook. Nora is a regular Hamlet of
a part, and the strain on memory was
obvious towards the end of the evening. Nor
did Miss Kook fitly represent the feverish
gaiety of the Tarantella dance. But it was
a fine rendering all the same, and the Rep.
broke its rule of no-curtain-calls at the
finish .to let the crowded house send up tri-
butes. There was support of a high average
by James Anderson, Ray Walsh, Thomas
Nave, Ethelwyn Robin, and some jolly and
effective kiddies.
* * * *
Adelaide is realising the strange truth
that you may jest about morals where you
may not discuss them seriously. At the
Royal Marie Tempest shows to roars of
laughter (in “Penelope”) that man is by
nature a polygamous animal, and that a
good wife will not worry over her husband’s
adulteries, but will just set to work to win
him back. Yet when Wondergraph puts up
a screen-drama turning on that old problem
whether a wife may fitly give her honor to
save her husband’s life, Smeaton asks ques-
tions in Parliament about it, with a conse-
quent rush to the theatre. Miss Tempest,
obviously enjoying herself immensely, and
highly popular, went on to play “Good
Gracious, Annabelle,” the American farce
which is So much better than its revue-like
title, with a big cast of characters —Frank
Harvey, for instance —for whom there had
been no room in the previous drawing-room
comedies.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“H. 0.”: After “Gran’dad Rudd” has had
his innings at the King’s it is probable that
the classics will again be given an airing by
Bailey and Grant. As, however, the finan-
cial possibilities of such a venture are
always uncertain, even in a village of the
size of London, “producer” lan Maclaren
is circularising likely Melbourne citizens
with the object of obtaining some kind of
guarantee of support. If the response is
what it should be the people who are
frankly bored by “Daddy Long Legs” and
“Cockatoo Cottage” will be given a chance
to see on the stage, in addition to Shaks-
pearean productions, plays by Galsworthy,
Sheridan, Barrie, Stanley Houghton and
MacDonald Hastings, and if the first season
does not reduce the management to penury,
Granville Barker, Euripides. Beaumont and
Fletcher, Arnold Bennett, Masefield, Pinero,
Goldsmith and Marlowe will be exploited.
Bailey and Grant are prepared to give the
public what it is supposed not to want for
six months of the year, if they can do so
without actually losing money, relying upon
the remaining six months, devoted to the
Rudd family and other popular circum-
stances, to provide them with astrachan col-
lars and other necessaries.
“Stargazer”: I was never stirred by the
Forum speech of Antony till the other uight,
when the new Marcus showed how the thing
should be done. Maclaren’s interpretation
displays Antony as a shrewd politician whose
handling of a crowd has been improved upon
only once in my .30 years of Melbourne ex-
perience. That was by Willie Watt at St.
Kilda Town Hall one night during the Win-
the-War campaign.
“Stargazer”: Plays like “The Outcast”
and 50 or so film dramas I have seen in
the last few years give some idea of the
progress of woman’s emancipation. For-
merly it was always the woman who re-
formed the man, and the' playwright insisted
on the uplift in a pure woman’s love. That
has all gone. Now it is the lady who is the
rake, and it is the wicked woman recently
turned from her wickedness whom the man
loves and marries. But we have not yet been
regaled with the cant from the woman that
we got habitually from the man. When is
the naughty lady going to step to the foot-
lights, place one hand upon her heart, point
the index finger of the other to the zenith,
and say: “I feel, I know, that the pure,
sweet love of a true man would make a
good girl of me”?
“Penden”: “T. 0.1.” says (B. G/9/T7)
that Edward Gladstone played Horatio to
every Hamlet of the ’fifties and ’sixties at
the old Royal in Bourke-street. Where,
then, was Teddy Hope, the greatest Horatio
of all? Hope (who died in the late ’sixties)
owned the part, as Ireland held a mortgage
upon that of King Claudius. Gladstone
became an endurable Horatio only at Hope’s
death and when Barry Sullivan put him into
the part.
“0.K.” : Note the audacity of Shakspeare.
Casca, speaking of Julius Csesar to Brutus
and Cassius, says: “I saw Mark Antony
offer him a crown,” the word “crown” hav-
ing been already used three times during the
conversation. Immortal Shak., dashing off
his “copy,” is suddenly struck by the thought
that the headgear of b.c. royalty was very
different from the diadem that Elizabeth had
been crowned with, and more like the roofless
symbols permitted to lords and barons in the
16th century. So he puts a purely modern
explanatory afterthought into the mouth of
Casca. “Yet ’twas not a crown neither,
’twas one of these coronets,” though there
were no such things in Rome or anywhere
else when Julius C. was about. But what
did the Immortal Bard care! He presently
made Casca say that the crowd “clapped
their chapped hands, and threw up their
sweaty nightcaps,” although they would be
standing bareheaded under a genial Italian
sky, and had never suffered tto English win-
try complaint of chapped hands. What odds
to William the Divine? He was putting a
London mob in the position of Roman ple-
beians and adapting ancient times to modern
customs. Had Sliak. been living yesterday
he would have tooted Macbeth to the Blasted
Ileath in a motor-car, and future generations
would be dazzled by his inspired impudence.
“L.H.P.”: In the matter of quick changes
the Lyster co. did something notable at
Dunedin (M.L.) in 1879-80. It staged
“Maritana,” “Bohemian Girl,” “Lucia,
“Trovatore,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo, ’ Rose of
Castile,” “La Sonambula,” “Traviata,
“Carmen,” “Aida,” “Fra Diavolo,” Lily ot
Killarney” and “Martha.” “Carmen,” then
a novelty, had a run of five consecutive
nights; for the rest of the season the pro-
gramme was changed every 24 hours. M hat
a company that was! It included the Coys,
Armes Beaumont, Charles Templeton, V en-
osta, Rose Hersee, Ethel Lambert, Verdi,
Mrs. J. H. Fox and Zelman (conductor),
with Geo. Musgrove as acting-manager.
“Bats”: “Up-Stage” (B. 13/9/’l7) is
wrong. George Rignold revived “Ju. Caesar”
as late as ’94. Scott Inglis was not in the
production of ’B9, but played the part ot
Cassius in ’94.
“Melb”: A century back Brutus was
recognised as the leading character in
“Julius Ca?sar.” Antony came to the fore
only through comparatively modern elabora-
tion of the Oration scene. The Meininger
players, Barnay and others, in London, gave
a lead in this respect for all subsequent pro-
ductions. John Kemble invariably acted
Brutus, a part that ranked with his Corio-
lanus and Cato. Young and Macready
played either Brutus or Cassius. With
these, Antony was regarded as a perquisite
of the third man in the show. Brooke acted
Brutus, and Sullivan, in his grand Mel-
bourne revival, also took the part. Ileir
was Cassius. Miln, in Melbourne, took
Antony. Worthy Cathcart called himself
“Berrewtus.” That excellent Sydney actor,
Nat Douglas, was Cassius. Hennings, who
painted the scenery, did his last big jobs
(“Antony and Cleopatra”) for Miln and
(“Theodora”) for Bernhardt.
“J.F.H.” (from London) : Beatrice
Miranda, the new Australian prima donna
of the Carl Rosa Opera Co. at our
Shaftesbury, is being lavishly paragraphed.
The latest alleges that on leaving the stage
door after a brilliant rendering of “Carmen”
she “beheld a poor blind organ-grinder who
was receiving very little in the way of
patronage or pennies. She stopped, sang
two verses of the song he was playing, and
personally made a collection among, the
crowd that had quickly gathered, securing a
handsome sum for the afflicted old man.”
Very nice—but why put it in the papers?
Ethel Irving’s Julie in “The Three Daugh-
ters of M. Dupont” is reckoned by several of
the critics the best bit of emotional acting
now to be seen in London.
No matter what eminence they may have
attained, German mummers run a grave
risk of offending the All Highest if their
make-up at all resembles his. A year or so
back, at one of Berlin’s theatres —the
Deutsches Schauspielhaus, to be exact —the
leading man was the cause of a police raid.
His chief offence was the typical Kaiser
moustache, which Wilhelm appears to have
copyrighted. The Hun Johns stopped the
performance, insisting on the upturned points
of Herr Starrpartt’s face-crop being lowered
and the make-up generally overhauled. Even
then the mummer remained ridiculously like
Burglar Bill, but the Law decided that it
could not interfere with a natural misfortune.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos Ebcnezer Ward, 80
this month (B. 20/9/T7). I witnessed
Ebby’s first appearance on the amateur
stage at the old Theatre Royal in 1859 or
'OO. A performance had been arranged for
the benefit of G. V. Brooke. The play was
“The Poor Gentleman.'’ In the cast were
John Edwards the younger, solicitor and
M.L.A., and known as “The Collingwood
Chicken”; John Hayward, an old actor who
had retired from the stage, but in after
years re-appeared as Mr. Deorwyn, father
of two clever girls, one of whom became
Mrs. Richard Stewart, jun., and the other
Mrs. Edward Holloway; James Smith,
eminent in journalism; Hugh John Cham-
bers, one time a Sydney solicitor and brother
of Miss Lucy Chambers, an eminent vocal-
ist; Edgar Ray, then proprietor of Mel-
bourne Punch ; Ebenezer Ward; James
Weedon, a Carlton baker, subsequently a
city alderman; W. J. Wilson, the scenic
artist; and Mr. Fox, who had been railway
station-master at Flinders-street. After the
“tag,” the performers assembled on the
stage, with Brooke in the centre, and .Tames
Smith, as spokesman, presented the benefici-
ary with a cheque for £2OO representing the
night’s receipts, with subscriptions added.
Ebenezer Ward was the youngest and most
active of the performers. He is the sole sur-
vivor of those on the stage. Close on 60
years ago. I wonder how many survivors
among the audience.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE UNMISTAKABLE PRO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our lodgers are unanimous
That little Brigg who bides with us
When he’s abroad could never be
Mistaken for a living thing
But what he is. An actor he —
Of that he is the sure dead ring.
He like an actor looks, he stands
Just like an actor, waves his hands
And talk 3 just like an actor fine.
He’s acting all his breakfast through;
He like an actor sits to dine;
He drinks just like an actor, too.
Upon the street he every inch
An actor is, and at a pinch
His clothes alone you might engage
To play Othello’s wicked factor.
’Tis only when upon the stage
He’s not the least bit like an actor!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


*9*
\
THROW OFF THE MASK!
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLACKHEADS, are Ugly
Features. Refined Folks avoid your Acquaintance.
I will tell Every Reader of this Paper FREE how
Every Blemish can be Removed in Ten Days.
Stubborn cases
have been cured
that baffled physi-
cians and beauty
specialists for
years. You have
never in all your
life used or heard
of auythinglike it.
Makes muddy
complexions, red
spots, pimples,
blackheads, freckles, eruptions, vanish almost like
magic. No cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster,
bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus, nothing
to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a "fright,” whether your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pim-
ples and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and
"porey,” and you’ve tried almost everything under the
sun to get rid of the blemishes. This wonderful treat-
ment, in just 10 days, positively removes every blem-
ish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way. You
look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and
tint of purity of a freshly blown rose. In 10 days you
can be subject to wild admiration by all your friends,
no matter what your age or condition of health.
All Methods Now Known are Cast Aside.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally,
Y our face, even arms, hands, shoulders, are beautified
beyond your fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely
prove to you before your own eyes in your mirror in 10
days. This treatment is absolutely harmless to the
most delicate skin, and very pleasant to use. No
change in your mode of living necessary. A few
minutes daily does it.
To every reader of this paper I will give full details
of this really astounding treatment. Let me show you.
You risk nothing. Send me 2d. stamp, you name and
address and I will give you full details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN (Suite 52 ), 178 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, an< -*’
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Pearce must have another word with the
Egyptian railway people. He never did a
better thing for the Australian troops on the
other side than when he secured the cancella-
tion of the infamous order which prohibited
a Billjim under the rank of sergeant riding
anywhere but in the filthy third (or nigger)
class on the Gippy railways. But there is
still need for a sharp word in somebody’s
ear; for this isn’t the first letter of the sort
The Bulletin has had lately:—
Early in July I went to Cairo on leave. At
Kantara 1 was sold a second-class ticket and travelled
to the wicked city in decent company. But when
I asked for a second-class ticket to return with, the
fat Gyppo behind the netting asked me could I read,
and produced the military order (posted on all sta-
tions) requiring all soldiers below the rank of
sergeant to travel nigger class. It hurt after a
year in the desert.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
A relic of the first .Napoleon will find its way
under the auctioneer’s hammer on War Chest Day in
Sydney. This is the guitar of the Emperor, pre-
sented to him by his sister Pauline. How it came to
Australia nearly a century ago may be briefly tol l.
During the Emperor’s residence on the island of St.
Helena, Mr. William Balcombe and his family also
lived there —he had an official position of some sort.
Napoleon favored the family, a little daughter being
especially petted ; and he gave the child the guitar,
a dainty thing of satinwood, inlaid with mother-o’-
pearl, made by Flamreau l’Aine, of Paris.
Mr. Balcombe was appointed first Colonial Treasurer
of N. S. IVales (Napoleon died in 1821, and the
need for an official staff on the island had dis-
WHEN THE STREET BALLET ENDS.
FIRST CHORUS GIRL : “Short skirts are going
out.”
SECOND DITTO : "Thank Heaven! Note tee'll
see one baldheads back."
appeared) and arrived in 1825. The family occupied
a house built by Wm. Cox, on the corner of Bligli-
street, now covered by the Sugar Company’s offices.
Mr. Balcombe died in 1829. Miss Balcombe became
Mrs. Abel, and gave tile guitar to Miss Mary Hely,
daughter of Mr. F. A. Hely, Superintendent of Con-
victs, who married Mr. Gother Mann, a well-known
public official; their daughter has now presented the
relic to Mrs. John Fell for use on War Chest Day.
The Balcombe family remained in Australia, and for
many years onq lived on Old South Head-road,
Woollahra, and called his residence Napoleon Villa.
* * * *
From the official journal of the N. S.
Wales Baking and Milling Employees: —
The original difficulty was the weak pretext upon
which the strike was formulated, and the men did
not hesitate to say that the card system, even if it
were as dangerous as it was alleged to be, was an
altogether insufficient reason to cast their country
into the throes of an industrial upheaval at a time
when every ounce of energy should be devoted to-
wards securing the maximum of production, and so
lending much-needed assistance to the carrying on
of the war. The strike leaders must have known,
and in fact did know, that a defeat could not be
avoided. But instead of manfully acknowledging the
hopelessness of continuing the contest these incap-
NOT A CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR.
“ Please , Sergeant-Major, may I he excused
from church-parade? I'm an agnostic.”
“ Don’t- you believe in the Ten Command-
ments, then?”
“No, I don’t.”
“Not even the one about keeping the Sab-
bath?”
“No.”
“Well, you’re the very man I’ve been looking
for to scrub out the canteen.”
able leaders for five weeks daily assured the men
that victory was rapidly coming nearer to realisa-
tion. Little wonder that the men showed resentment
when acquainted with the true position of affairs.
Quite so. But as the wise baking paper
presumably knew as well as the unwise
leaders that the men’s cake was dough, why
didn’t it tell them so at first instead of keep-
ing the article iu the oven until it was
burnt? Cinders don’t feed misguided
strikers’ wives and kiddies.
* * * *
“Tira’s” rebuke:—
To you who sent “A cry from the Front.” Did
it ever occur to you that, in many cases, it is
entirely your own fault that you boys who went to
the war long ago don’t get as many letters, etc.,
as later reinforcements do ? I, for one, have written,
and do still write, dozens of letters and send parcels
and papers to boys I know and to boys I don’t know.
For a time letters used to pour in in reply; then,
gradually, they failed. Now, ask yourself: Is it to
be wondered at that we lose some interest in you
when you forget all about your Australian girls, who
in many cases (mine for one) are doing men’s work,
such as keeping the farms going, till you come home
again? The girls you meet over there may be
prettier than we are, but put them at the work we
have to do and I guess we would come out on top.
Still, old Billjim, if you do come home with a
smiling stranger’s photo, in your tunic .pocket, it
won’t trouble us as much as if you brought the smil-
ing stranger herself.
The Jewish Day of Atonement fitted in
between 6 p.m. on Tuesday last and 6 p.m.
the following day. Every Jew worthy a
nose foregathered at the Synagogue and took
a belt along to hitch up as the fast ad-
vanced. Out of respect to Cohen and Levy,
Speaker and Deputy-Speaker of N. S. Wales
Parliament, and so that they might go and
imitate the ancient act of the Children of
Israel, the House adjourned until 7 p.m.
Wednesday. After this who says we’re not
tolerant?
“Bill Bowyang” (Palestine) : Billjim
gave an old enemy a hearty welcome the
other day. when frozen bunnies were distri-
buted in place of “bully” and lean Argentine
meat. Why not tin bunny and let us have him
in place of the everlasting "bully ? W ounded
on their way from the tiring-line to Cairo
are offered tinned English rabbit or chicken,
and I have noticed that the majority of the
men choose the bunny. Meantime Billjim is
to receive the frozen article at intervals until
further notice; and as Army Orders state
that alt skins must be dried and returned to
Ordnance, our bivouacs are going to look
like rabbiters’ camps from now on.
“A.E.L.” carries a present for Fritz: —
“You’re on gas d'tail to-night, Lessing,” said the
sergeant-major. “There will be six waggons going
with four-horse teams. You'll be leaving in half an
hour.”
“Gas detail’* meant that we had to load up with
cylinders of our gas, and take them up to the line.
Big iron sausages they are, and 20 of them make a
fair load;
The last waggon ready, the six set out, in column,
the four horses driven from the box. We had the
Tommies staring. Only the Australians drive this
way over here. Tommy rides postilion.
Skirting a huge mine crater we turned into a
sunken road leading to a ruined village. On the
side a battery of four big howitzers was in action.
The guns were pounding steadily and the horses took
a bit of coaxing. They marked time all over the
place and passed each gun on their hind legs.
Beyond that, things were fairly quiet. There was just
the usual nightly barking of our “heavies,” whose
shells screamed in all notes over our heads. Fritz sent a
few over now and again, but they burst a good dis-
tance away, with the exception of one, which blew
down a house in the centre of the village just as we
came through.
We pulled up before we reached the crest of the
ridge to wait till nightfall, since the road on top
was in clear view of Fritz’s line. Here we donnel
our shrapnel helmets and strapped our respirators on
our chests in the “gas alert” position. ' In the event
of gas coming over or a gas shell exploding on us
we just had to whip the mask out of the box and
slip it over our faces, which would take only a
couple of seconds.
As we turned into a sunken road our S.O.S. signal
went up from the line. It was a gorgeous sight.
Besides the great star shells that Fritz sends up,
brilliant as electric arc-lights, there were myriads
of red and green flares, and at regular intervals big
rockets rose with a swish and a tail of sparks
to burst out into brilliant clusters of amber. Then
an awful clap. A hundred guns of ours spoke at
the same moment. The ground seemed to heave and
fall back again. The horses, poor beasts, shivered.
For a solid hour and a half the racket never ceased
for an instant.
We hadn't gone a hundred yards along the road
when Fritz put a “coal box” right in the centre >f
it and only 20 yards ahead of our leading waggon.
A flash, a head-splitting crash, and the column
stopped suddenly. There were infantry all along
this road in reserve. Most of them were curled up
UNDER THE PURE FOOD ACT.
“Taste this milk, please, daddy; 'cause
mummy says if it's very sour it’ll make
pussy sick.”
in little dugouts that they had scraped in the banks
on both sides. That shell claimed seven of those
boys.
The place reeked of cordite and other gas. Up
the other side we went through the pandemonium,
turned to our right, and passed the village; so
on to another sunken road for 300 yards. Then
stopped. We had arrived at our destination.
The last waggon was unloaded. “Get. mounted”
said our sergeant. Then we were faced with a
difficulty. The road was so narrow that we couldn’t
turn. But we found another bit of a track leaclin*•
out unto the fields, and we took it. The night was
pitch dark. I could scarcely see iny horses’ heads
My waggon slid into a ditch and stopped there.' t
had to dismount and look for a decent place to turn
1 got going again, then floundered into barbed wire!
Down I hopped once more and 30011 managed to °- e t
myself as well tangled as the horses. But. a shell
THE SAFE WAY.
ALGERNON : “Well, I’ve made up my mind
at last — I’m going as a soldier.”
FAIR ONE : “Oh, I’m delighted to hear it,
Mr. Faintheart. I do hope nothing will
happen to you.”
ALGERNON : “I’ll he all right—nothing very
exciting ever takes place at our fancy-
dress hall.”
did it. The poor brutes jumped out of that field on ,
to the road. Round the corner they swung, hit a
pile of bombs, cannoned olf them into the bank, and
cleared down the road with me trying to pull them
up with one hand and hanging on to the seat with
the other. I got them under and soon picked up the
other waggons.
“Didn’t expect you to get out of it,” said one of
the boys cheerfully when we joined ’em.
We reached camp just on 4 a.m. While unhar-
nessing, a green flare went up from a village a few
miles away and bells began to ring, horns were
Mown, tin cans beaten. “Gas alarm!” somebody
said. “Damn the gas!” said my mate, and turned
over to a sound sleep.
* * * *
“Bert R.” : Billjim reads any darned thing
when he can’t get any-
thing else. During one of
our alleged spells, we
took over a quiet part of
the line from the Prin-
cess Pats. These Cana-
dians—tine chaps!—had
been there nearly four
months, and had scarcely
tired a shot. We found
the dugouts swamped out
with their literature —
pocket novelettes with
droopy titles such as “A
(iirl’s First Love” and
‘‘Mother Didn’t Know.’
These lengths of tender
tripe were read surrepti-
tiously by every member'
of our platoon. For days
afterwards the sound of
heavy sighing was heard
on all sides, and at night
it was painful to listen
to. Several sentimental
blokes went right off their
tucker and a general air
of sadness pervaded the
ditch. Nobody was sorry
when we got word that
we were to move off to
where there was some-
thing doing, and leave the
distressing literature for other moping gladi-
ators.
* * * *
“B.B.”: Saluting is a thing that can
easily be overdone, and we reckon it over
the odds when we are compelled to salute
German officers. This, nevertheless, is the
practice in certain military-prison camps.
We’d like to know if it’s the bombing of our
hospitals and the sinking of our hospital
ships that qualify the Bosche for such marks
of respect.
THE COST OF LIVING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life is a most expensive thing.
Though why ’tis hard to understand,
For Nature is supposed to fling
Her largesse with a lavish hand ;
But never is a price-list scanned
Without some rise in beef or bread.
Whether in Sale or Samarcand
It’s really cheaper to be dead.
The journalists and experts string
Together words and phrases bland
To show how pool and trust and ring
Have rigged Supply to meet Demand;
The surplus fruit is pulped or canned,
The meat hangs frozen in its shed,
So while contracting firms expand
It’s really cheaper to be dead.
There is a place, so poets sing,
Where one may have a plot of land,
A small roof-garden touched by Spring
A wooden house securely planned,
And there ensconced beneath the sand
One pays no toll for board and bed,
All taxes, rates and bills are banned—•
It’s really cheaper to he dead.
Envoi.
So, thrifty folk of every brand,
Remember well what 1 have said:
Though life to spendthrift youth seem grand,
It’s really cheaper to be dead.
VICTORIA.
V. P.


THE
-“ROADSIDE-
OVERALL
Posted Free to You.
for - 126.
This Overall, although primarily intended for motorists, has
proved efficiently serviceable to ENGINEERS, PAINTERS',
CARPENTERS and other men who need sturdy overalls.
The garment is made from strong drab Garbicord, and has
wide bib, spacious pocket, and comfortable shoulder-straps.
COOL AND EASY-TO-SLIP-ON.
Send your height and chest measure and we will send you
an overall for approval.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DBPOBIT OF
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for
£4 7 6 • „ „
£8 15 O ii
£43 15 O „ H
£B7 10 O
£875 00„ „
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application form* and all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. i'4b March , 1917
“Light Horse”: The Bedouin Arab doesn’t
knock off just because you start incivilities
across his cultivation patch. At the fight at
Rafa, and well within range of the flying
lead, Bedouin men, women and children
strolled about their farms or drove their
goats to the wells, taking far less interest
in the show than if it had been a cheap
circus. In trekking with a troop in a par-
ticularly out-of-the-way place we suddenly
came across a Bedouin scratching the ground
with his little wooden plough drawn by a
camel and a calf. We passed within a few
SO TATTLE TO GO ON.
“A woman is always judged by her clothes."
“ That’s the reason toe men knout so little
about them."
yards; but he showed not the slightest con-
cern, although nothing quite like us had
ever been his way before. Still the detach-
ment may be more apparent than real, for
lie has been known, when he has had only
one or two men to deal with, to suddenly
dig up rifle and ammunition, and do some
nasty sniping.
Lance-Jack”: He was a new hand and
wo called him “Boodle,” because he never
had any, and was always putting in the
“nips.” The first time we took Boodle
into the line with us he went without a tin-
hat because he happened to be behind the
canteen door when they were handed out.
It worried the constant borrower and he
determined to get one by any means. The
first night found him on a wiring job.
It was late summer and the grass
was fairly long but not long enough
to hide from Boodle’s covetous eyes a
brand-new tin-hat shining in the
middle of No Man’s Land. He crept
through the grass towards it, tightly
clutching a shovel in one hand. When
he got within arm’s-length he stretched
out for the prize, but it
moved in his grasp and
a fierce face appeared
underneath. Fear moved
Boodle to instant action,
and he dealt the lid a
mighty blow with his
shovel. The head bent
beneath the impact with
a grunt, and immedi-
ately a bundle of Irish
wrath leaped roaring out
of the shell-hole, where
it had been keeping
faithful watch for the
wiring party. “Pinch me
tin-hat, ye filthy
t’ief, would ye? An’ try
to do yer dirthy worrk
wid a shovel! Take
that, ye filthy !” A
fist like a mule’s hoof
caught Boodle on the
jaw, sending him with a
splash into another shell-
hole full of liquid mud.
Two seconds later every
man was back in the
trench and No Man’s
was a brilliant as a pub
with Fritz’s variegated
flares, while his machine-
gunners played a devil’s
tattoo along our wire. In
the middle of the night-
mare Larry came strid-
ing up to the trench and
chucked a limp, muddy object into it.
“Keep yer oyes on yer tin-hats, bhoys.” he
growled, as he jumped in. “Dis troied to
pinch moine.”
* * * #
This isn’t a yarn
of some Chinatown,
but of a railway
gatehouse not eight
miles from the Mel-
bourne G.P.0., on
one of Victoria’s two
most important main
roads. Eleven cases
of diphtheria there-
from in five years
actually led the local
authority to take
notice. It was then
discovered that in
three small rooms 10
people of assorted
sexes ivere sleeping
in four beds. The
place was waterless
except during a few
winter months, and
sanitationless always.
Dad objected to do-
ing sanitary exer-
cises for the home,
so a roadside hedge
was used as a lat-
rine by the males of
the family. This re-
velation led to more.
A 60-year old town-
ship of 15 houses
under the same
authority had no
form of sanitary ser-
vice at all, each
householder’s back-
yard being its own
Metropolitan Farm;
and the same at the
State school. It was
remarked that the
place never seemed
free from diphtheria,
and no wonder —
imagine the condition of a 20 x 90 back
yard after 60 years!
“Copabella”: There are a couple of hun-
dred men in Yarraville (Vic.) kicking them-
selves with enthusiasm and their heaviest
boots. When the wharfies’ trouble started
the C.S.R. found itself with a shipload of
raw sugar at its wharf, two days’ supply in
the refinery and a great blasphemous blank
where the wharfies should have been. It
therefore posted iu the works a notice stat-
ing that unless the boat could be unloaded
within the two days work would have to
cease for want of raw material. It invited
volunteer unloaders. The employees—all the
unskilled and easily replaceable— saAV in this
a threat, and, full of suspicion, held a corrob-
oree. A Great Boojuin from the Trades
Hall came down and talked the usual “soli-
JUST A FEW INSTRUCTIONS.
THE WAITER; "Here, I say, you know —
you've been at that 'phone for a quarter
of an hour without opening your lips."
THE OTHER: " Sh! My wife’s at the other
end.”
darity” guff, and the flats—many of them
elderly men whose nose-leading days should
have been over—struck. Now the 0.5.1 t. in
Melbourne has a scheme of subsidised pen-
sions and house-building for employees
whereby on reaching 60 the employee may
get a weekly sum for life and a house of his
own. A condition was “no strikes” —and
the C.S.lt. hadn’t had a strike here in 50
years. The strikers were given a week in
which to think, and were told that, if they
still were not satisfied, other workers
would then have to be looked for. At
the end of the week the C.S.lt. paid out
thousands of pounds, the strikers’ deposits,
and wrote "finis” to their amelioration
scheme as far as the strikers were concerned.
One man, a few months from 60 and 50s. a
week for life, drew £9O cash instead of a
chance of £l2OO. “You sold us, you ——!”
sobbed an old fellow to the Boojum at the
last corroboree. “No, 1 didn’t,” said he,
"but you’ve been sold all the same !” And
that’s all the consolation they got for their
fight for “principle.” A two days’ wait,
sane leadership, and with the closing of the
works for lack of material they’d have been
stood down amicably—with all their rights
intact —until the strike-cloud lifted.
“Cherokee”: Strikes bring strange con-
trasts. How different the smiling morning-
faces of Melbourne’s glaziers as compared
with the black brows of the marching mob
of the previous night, who in a disorderly
roam through the city smashed plateglass
windows and damaged signs and fascias to
the extent of £5OOO. The crowd was dis-
persed by the police near Federal Parlia-
ment House, and there were several arrests.
The Argus, some of whose windows were
broken, had an angry leading article. The
Age, which suffered equal damage, turned
the other cheek; and The Herald, on whose
walls obscenities were written, wrote nothing
in reply. In the Reps. Hughes talked
vaguely of deportation, while in the city an
angry tailor, who will have to pay £5O for
new plate-glass, told a pressman that
Russia was not the only country in need of
a Man at the helm. Plate-glass, like every-
thing else, is at war prices. Many of the
windows were insured, but there is a clause
in the policies exempting damage caused by
“riot, commotion or civil disturbance.”
“Fax”: After three years’ experience of
enemy aliens the Musicians’ Union of Vic.
has decided to have no more of them for the
present. The term “enemy alien” in this
comiection has been reasonably taken to
include “naturalised” fiddlers. “We are not
inspired by vindictiveness,” says secretary
Davidson, “but it is only fair that we should
consider our own members who have gone
to the Front. There are about 115 of these,
and it is not right that they should be
fighting "while German and Austrian musi-
cians are holding comfortable billets here.
The Union seems to have been goaded by
truculent disciples of the Kaiser who have
twitted their colleagues with ignorance of
Gott’s decree. “One German member openly
boasts that he is in recipt of information
from Germany as to the progress of the
war, and we shall see where we are when
it is all over.” About 40 members will be
suspended as from October 20, unless they
can make good a claim for exemption. There
are other unions wherein alien members are
still laughing openly, or in their sleeves, at
the “sillee, stupid Britishers” who keep them
in comfortable billets whilst loyalists are
fighting at the Front. Some of them, seem-
ingly, are in a position to put bombs aboard
ships.
“F.E.M.”: Just-dead Carty Salmon used
to tell a story about the way that State
matters were run in N. S. Wales under the
free-and-easy Ministers of 20 years ago. The
Doctor was at the time a Victorian State
Minister and crossed over to the inaugural
Commonwealth junkets with the Light Horse
or some other cavalry squad. He wanted
to borrow a few police horses in Sydney, as
he was short of mounts, and so paid a visit
to the public offices with the object of inter-
viewing John See. However, the messenger he
ran against insisted that nobody could inter-
view his boss without pre-arrangement, so a
note had to be written and left, begging the
Minister to make an appointment. In retiring
along the corridor the Doctor met another
medico-politician, the late James Graham,
and stopped to chat. Looking back Salmon saw
the messenger reading the letter he had just
written to John See. Hurrying up he de-
manded to know what a messenger meant
by opening and reading correspondence from
one Crown Minister to another. “Oh.” said
the guardian of the door, “I read everything
that goes through here to the Minister.”
The Doctor bounced off to the Principal
Under-Secretary, boiling over with indigna-
tion. only to hear Critchett Walker call the
messenger in and mildly beg of him not to
be so indiscreet.
■*■***
“Peg-Leg”: When Billjim hears the glad
news that he is getting 10 days' furlough in
London, he anoints himself with insecticide
for a week before going to the clearing
station. There he submits to a thorough
audit, and, if lucky, receives a scrap of paper
that certifies him free from vermicelli. The
unlucky ones generally have to await fumi-
gation—a process which sometimes smokes
a couple of days out of their leave. My
brother has sent his certificate home for
framing. I think we’ll hang it in the bath-
room.
# * * *
“Te Whare”: At Woollahra Point, Syd-
ney, there was until recently a relic of the
Spanish navigator De Quiros and his merry
men. It was a flagstaff hole, hewn in the
solid rock, and beside it were dates to prove
its identity. The Historical Society recently
obtained permission to cut out and lift the
piece, substituting a concrete or plaster
replica. This, I think, is the first time that
a hole has been transplanted. It would date
from about the 16th century. Neai-er the
water is a cave in which there are rude rock-
drawings of fish —also ascribed to the Spani-
ards, though more likely of aboriginal origin.
NOT GUILTY.
MISS BLACK : “What a lot of Australians
non know! Don't you find them awfully
rough? They grate on me!”
Miss White: “Oh, not at all —those I know
shave every day."
A CHANT OF WAR WEARINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let us chant a stave of sorrow.
Strikes aie over; life is fiat;
Yesterday has narked to-morrow ;
Mirth has pawned his jingling hat.
Haig and Wilhelm grip and wrangle
Up and down the Flanders mud,
And Kerenski waits to strangle
Hate before it turns to blood.
Nothing doing! I’m as cheerful
As a sawdust butcher’s floor.
Earth is sodden; Heaven is tearful;
Hell’s an everlasting bore.
All the pots of ink have plenty
Of their black and hopeless juice ;
Mabel's lips are one-and-twenty,
Rod—but what the ’s the use?
Once the world was full of singing,
Once the cables thrilled to bring
News that only wanted stringing
Into any blessed thing.
Now the tune of death-and-glory
Fills the world by land and sea,
And there isn’t half a story
For an ink-tied wight like me.
Give us peace! Jump on the Kaiser 1
Hold him down with guns or men,
Till the drunken earth gets wiser
To the uses of a pen.
Nothing doing! Out of focus
Is the large round public gaze
Through the blessed hocus-pocus
Of the war’s eternal blaze.
Let me write an “Ode to Pollard”
Or a lyric to the style
Of an onion, bronzely collared,
Waiting to be stewed with guile;
To be stewed with all disguises
To a culinary psalm—
But this blessed war arises,
And its only note is damn!
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


TAKING HIM AT HIS WORD.
TUM MAN WITH THE FLAG: “Gripes! I’ve often told her to do without me, and Mimey it she hasn't at last gone and done it!"


THE VILLAGE TAXSMITH-
“Nothing attempted, nothing done.”


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [ 2
By Special Appointment to His Excellency Lord Islington, ex-Governor of New Zealand
Nurse Ellen Everett, Medical and Electrical Masseuse, writes her opinion to Clements Tonic: —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
Wellington Electrical and Medical Institute,
Aitken Street, Wellington, ist May, iqij.
‘As a Specialist in Neurasthenia and Nerve Work /find Clements Tonic
one ofi my best nerve fioods to recommend to my patients."
Yours truly ,
( Nurse )
For the relief of Indigestion, Loss of Sleep, Anasmia, Constipation, Sick Headache, Brain-fag and Debility get il to-day.
All Chemists and Stores sell it throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A STRIKE EVENT.
CONDUCTOR (to driver of motor-lorry ’bus):
"Yer needn't bother ter stop at the
corner, Joe. ’ E's GOT orf!"
Martin Andrews, one of the latest to win
the Military Cross in France, is vice-princi-
pal of the Anglican bush brotherhood in west-
ern N. S. Wales, and was rector at Bre-
warrina before the war. He went as chap-
lain with the first contingent of the A.1.F.,
and was wounded at Gallipoli. Since then
the British forces have borrowed him as one
of their senior chaplains, attached to the
Fusiliers. His decoration came to him for
carrying a wounded man a mile and a half
under heavy shell-fire, afterwards returning
and bringing six others into shelter.
Died last week, at Cremorne, Sydney,
Harrie Wood, first Under-Sec. for Mines in
N. S. Wales, and in his day Under-Sec. for
Agriculture also. A little wisp of a man, he
looked good for only a few years when he
transferred himself and his pipe from Bal-
larat to Sydney in 1874; yet he smoke-dried
himself, and lasted till he was 87. Wood
was an old Ballarat identity, and specialised
in mining titles : he was District Mining Re-
gistrar at the old goldfield for many years
until Parkes lured him from Victoria and set
him up as the permanent head of a new
department in Sydney.
PLAIN SAILING.
FIRST DRUNK : “'Come on, o[?] man — nuts'
struggle 'gainst thish wind or we’ll never
get ’ ome .”
SECOND DRUNK: “Thash right—ish ill-wind
blows no good.”
Back to his native State with a V.C. on
his chest, Capt. James Ernest Newland, one
of a record shipment of 1026 wounded and
invalided soldiers who reached home last
week. Though born in Camperdown (Vic.)
he was in Tasmania when the present dis-
turbance started, and just after marrying a
Launceston girl, went with a composite
battalion to Egypt, and thence to Gallipoli
and France. He won the Cross for three
separate acts of bravery—leading two des-
perate attacks, and later stemming a Ger-
man onslaught which had overpowered a
supporting company and threatened the rear
of his own. He is 34 years old, and began
as a lad in the Garrison Artillery at Queens-
cliff. With a brother he went through
S’Africa unscathed ; but another brother has
been killed in France.
Sidney William Jackson has just looked in
on Melbourne to deliver to the National
Museum the collection of 5000 specimens of
Australian birds presented by H. L. White,
of Belltrees, Scone
(N.S.W.), for whom he
has been curator and
collector for 10 years.
One of his recent
tours was in the Bow
River district (W.A.)
with an assistant,
Herbert Saw, who has
since enlisted. Here
he discovered Euca-
lyptus Jacksoni, 300 ft.
high and 15ft. thick,
and collected several
thousand other bo-
tanical specimens not
so large. He was in
search of the noisy
scrub-bird, fairly com-
mon 30 years ago. but
found it had been ex-
terminated by domes-
tic cats run wild.
Another species haunts
N. S. Wales scrubs,
and is unknown any-
where else. It lives
under fallen debris, and, like the lyre-bird,
is a great mimic. Its wings are adapted for
flying down, but not up—which makes it an
easy prey for pussy.
Prof. Gilbert Murray, lately distributing
prizes at Dulwich College (Eng.), explained
how John Masefield was able to put the
spirit of Billjim into his classic “Gallipoli.”
Murray, who left Australia when he was 11
(he was the third son of Terence Aubrey
Murray, President of N. S. Wales Leg. Coun-
cil), said that before he joined the Mer-
chant Taylors’ School, London, he was edu-
cated in “one of the strangest schools in the
woild —the Australian bush”; and he added
that his friend there was John Masefield, the
poet.
The N. S. Wales railways were able to
keep their most historic train going
throughout the strike, and still can say that
“The Fish,” which started on the Western
line over half a century ago, has never
missed a run. It got its name from the
circumstance that in its earliest days it was
manned by Heron, Salmon and Pike, respec-
tively engineer, fireman and guard.
Died last week Alphonsus Coen, one of the
most eloquent preachers the R.C’s have pro-
duced in Australia. Wholly Australian-
trained, lie took a high place among the
Passionists, who are the “revivalists” of
their church. A brother, born like this one
at Yass (N.S.W.) and a rising member of
the Bar in Sydney, was killed in action a
year ago. Neither had had time to reach
middle age.
F. S. Drake-Brockman, Surveyor-General
of Westralia, who passed out on September
11, aged 60, did gobd work in the early days
surveying and exploring in the Never-Never.
One of his biggest jobs was the construction
of the Wyndham to Hall’s Creek telegraph
line. His widow (nee Bussell) is known as
the “Grace Darling of W.A.” on account of
the magnificent courage which she displayed
in connection with the rescue of the passen-
gers and crew of the Georgette, wrecked
near the Leeuwin in 1876. Three sons are
in khaki, and a daughter is the widow of the
late Winthrop Hackett.
The late Col. Fire-low Tom Price’s three
sons have all been at the war. The eldest
is major in the Welsh Guards and won a
D.S.O. for the things he did near Verdun.
The second boy, who was in the navy, died
in Egypt last year. The youngest went up
from S’Africa with the Rhodesians in 1915,
and is still doing his bit in German East
Africa. He has a commission in the Mechan-
ical Transport section. This one has the old
family name of Rose. John, father of
Tom, was the son of Sir Rose Price, Bart.
John was the martinet chief inspector of
convict establishments in Victoria who was
stoned to death on the jetty at Williams-
town. Colonel Tom]was the pioneer of the
mounted rifles in Australia.
Died suddenly at the Grand Hotel (Melb.)
the other night an unwieldy citizen
who one time had the honor of being
married to Frances Saville, the eldest
daughter of the musical Simonsens. Max
Rown ..described himself as a Bohemian
who went to New
York when he was
a boy and ulti-
mately became a
natuflalised Amur-
kan. In appear-
ance and accent,
however, he re-
mained a Hun, and
he haunted the
German Club in
Melbourne until it
was closed. In
Sydney of yore, as
in Melbourne of
late, he figured as
a commercial bon-
vivant, and for
awhile in the
nineties of last
century he toured
America and
Europe as manager
for Frances Saville
—fine looking
woman and accom-
pl i s h e d operatic
singer.
SINCLAIR,
M.H.R.
(Moreton , Q.).
The “fighting strain” runs in Lieut.
Stewart Dalrymple-Hay, who lately scored
the Military Cross for artillery work at
Bullecourt and Messines. Members of this
family have figured in the Army and Navy
List back to the days of Nelson, and include
such heavy guns as the late Admiral Sir
John Dalrymple-Hay, of the Mediterranean
Fleet, and a General of the Indian Army.
The youth himself (he is only 22) is an
old boy of North Sydney Grammar and the
eldest son of N.S.W. Chief Forestry Com-
missioner. He went to Gallipoli with the
Light Horse.
*w igged m° Ut . in a SU £ haad-me-dowm
that would stagger a Board meeting \yu
liam E. L. Wears, managing-director of
Wormald Bros., Ltd., has, with 12 other
members of the Ancient Mariners’ Club been
doing his bit. He and his pals, all of whom
followed the sea in their youth, shipped as
A.B’s. on board the Oonah, trading f roni
Vic. to Tas., and enjoyed themselves
ARCHBISHOP CLUNE (W.A.), recently
R.C. chaplain at the Front.
thoroughly. The ship’s company included
Captain R. Cliugg, master of the Catterthun
25 years ago ; Capt. A. E. Kane; Capt. Tim
Cloke, and H. D. Mitchell, mate of the
Period. Chugg, the baby of the party, a
youth of 59, was wont to walk along the
after-hatch on his hands, returning by
means of three neatly-executed catherine-
wheels. One watch below a freak spud,
billed as “a Chinese money god,” and re-
puted to eat coal, drink petrol and spit fire,
was raffled for the benefit of the Y.M.C.A.
at the Front, and brought in £25.
B. J. Doe, Nationalist, just elected at
the Murray (N.S.W.) by-election, has had
four previous unsuccessful tries for Parlia-
ment—once each for Port Broughton and
Stanley (S.A.), in the Labor interest, and
twice for Broken Hill seats in the Win-the-
War cause. Some four years ago, out of
13 starters, he was runner-up to the re-
doubtable Jabez Wright for the Willyama
(Broken Hill) Labor selection. Entering
the recent Federal fight as a Nationalist he
early retired and became the Independent’s
election manager. This brought him into
touch with the Murray country, and he and
the soldier candidate gave the camel-gaited
Considine the fight of his life. As he has
reached the three-score years mark, and
belongs to the excessively rigidly righteous
class, there is hope that he will not be re-
formed by Parliament. He had a son killed
at the war.
Joshua Frey Josephson is recalled by the
advertised sale of 11 houses in Phillip-street.
Sydney, only a small portion of the estate
left by him. Joshua Frey Josephson was
son of Jacob Josephson, who in the first
’thirties built and kept an inn, the Governor
Bourke, on the bank of the Nepean at Pen-
rith. The son was a musician and gave
lessons; later he studied law and became a
solicitor ; later still he got upon the roll of
barristers, then became a parliamentarian,
was Solicitor-General under John Robertson,
and became a D.G. Judge in 1869. He died
in 1892. Besides all these things he was
Mayor of Sydney in 1848 —while he was in
practice as a solicitor.
The United Labor Party in S. Aus has
changed its name to “Australian,” and u
this means that it is going to put Australia
first it is something to give three cheers
about. Lionel Hill is the Party’s new presi-
dent, in succession to F. W. Lundie. Hill is
a battler of 36, and has been president or
secretary of nearly everything within his
reach. He is still sec. of the Tramways Em-
ployees’ Assoc, in Adelaide, and it sent him
to the Assembly ; but he resigned to contest
a Senate seat, and went down in the general
crash. He has been a great athlete, and
played football for Norwood and the State.
A RHYME OF SPECIAL SNAPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a kindly, pleasant soul, with money in the
bank ;
She didn’t smoke or swear at all and never dam ed
or drank.
Her house was cleanly kept and on her table every
day,
She set the usual three square meals in a most vir-
tuous way.
She was a gentle little thing whom anyone would
trust
To mind a baby, pay a bill
Or tend a neighbor taken ill,
Or from her ample pantry-store
To help the beggar at her door ;
And yet, I grieve to state,
The lady, soon or late,
Threw down her job quite recklessly and went upon
the bust.
For weeks and weeks industriously she toiled around
the place,
A model missus, vehicle for each domestic grace,
Peeling the spuds and making pies and doing this
and that
Until her day for going gay—and then she took her
hat,
Dragged out the household stocking from its place
behind the grate
And with a most determined air
Took all the hard cash hidden there,
And in her best madapolam
Tore off to catch an early tram—
Good missus on the loose
Proceeding like the deuce
Her sudden, dreadful appetite for bargain-sales to
sate.
She was a kindly, sober soul—except at sales, of
c-ourse,
When everyone who wants to win must do the trick
by force;
And, when good missus started in to choose her
little lot,
Her methods made strong women sob, shopwalkers
fled the spot,
And there was dusty tumult and extreme disquietude,
For at the bargain-counters were
Yet others eager for a share,
And when a lady liked a thing,
Without unduly dickering
She reached her ready mitt
Across to capture it
And snatched it from all comers in a manner almost
rude.
Hut really she was just a kindly, gentle, little thing,
And, once her spree was done and she had had her
giddy fling,
No one that saw her crawling back could find the
heart to blame
As homewards, stony-broke and wilted, limpingly she
came,
A weird, wild light of foolish rapture shining in her
eyes,
Staggering up the garden-track,
Battered and beaten, bringing back
The futile harvest of her lapse,
All sorts of oddments, special snaps
Of every shape and size.
And—what a nice surprise !
To please her dear old hub, a dozen red and yellow
ties!
VICTORIA.
O. L.


V'v
*
«***
?
C** - .
r'
•>:
V->.
:V
VO’S
•\
:•>
3.T35
:>■ j -
?Y>h
fov -
m
I
WX**
-
V
»Si
-••'•-
2ft
23
t?*>
:
'A
\
n
£
$
v<A
ft *
v-v
✓is
en
vk
■*?
*;
S 3
HE Quality of Fabric made at John Vicars
A and Sons’ Marrickville Mills is not qualified
in any way—it is warranted all pure wool.
But it does not follow that all Australian-made Tweeds are
free from the admixture of cotton, which is largely used to
cheapen the cost of so-called woollen goods.
The man who knows by experience how well an all-wool fabric
will wear and maintain its appearance, is assured of an all
pure wool standard in a suiting which bears the trade-mark
of the famous Marrickville Mills.
An “Austral” Sac Suit to Measure of Vicars’ Marrickville Tweed may be ordered at 85/-,
and offers the man who looks for the most of value a character of styling, a satisfaction of
fitting, and a standard of workmanship in perfect keeping with the high quality of cloth.
AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS
TO MEASURE
of Vicars’ Marrickville Tweeds
851
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS.
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET; 3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE;
New Branch Shop at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
“Austral” Sac Suits of
Australian Tweed
To Measure at 75 -
Those of our customers whose
requirements are met by a
lower-priced suit than has
been quoted, will find that an
“Austral” Sac Suit to Measure
of Australian Tweed at 75/-
touches the rock-bottom of
tailoring value. The fabrics
are not ALL pure wool, but
have both an attractive appear-
ance and the qualities to
withstand hard wear.
To any address throughout
Australia we send patterns,
together with tape measure
and chart which illustrates the
“Austral” simple system of
self-measurement. We guar-
antee a satisfactory fitting, and
pay the carriage on all country
orders.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Dead
Corroding Dead
Antinionial Dead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (liar and Granulated)
Uno Metal,
Spelter,
Antifriction Metal
Litharge,
Zinc Dust,
Registered
BUYERS OX A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
<BHAS>
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonator*
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Toohey’s, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
-ran., ’lO.. £19.911 sp.c.= £lO,OOO £9,911 £31,089
duly, ’lO.. 20,025 6 „ „ 12,000 8,025 39,114
Jan., ’ll.. 22,756 6 ~ „ 12,000 10,756 49,870
Julv, ’11... 20,398 6 „ 12,000 8,398 58,268
.laii., ’12.. 26,867 7 ~ ~ 14,000 12,867 71,135"
July, ’12.. 24,086 7 ~ 14,000 10,086 81,221
Jan., ’13.. 27,750 7 ~ ~ 14,000 13,750 94,971
July, ’13.. 23,487 7 „,, 14,000 9,487 104,458
Jaii., 'l4. . 33,120 S 16,000 17,120 121,578
Julv. ’14.. 27,360 s .... 16,000 11,360 132,938
Jaii., ’15.. 35,692 S .... 16,000 19.692 152,630
July, ’15.. 24,514 S .... 16.000 8,514 161,144
Jaii., ’16.. 22,521 8 .. ~ 16,000 6,521 167,665
Julv, ’16.. 21,203 8 ~ 16,000 5,203 172.868
Jan., '17.. 17,885 S „., 16,000 1,885 174,753
July, ’17.. 19,024 8 ~ .. 16,000 3,024 177,777
For a more detailed view of what has hap-
pened during the past three years take this:
1915. 1916. 1917.
Cros- profit on brewings,
etc £94,635 £90,431 £82,198
Rents and interest . . 10,139 9,798 8,420
Gross income . . £104,774 £100,229 £90,618
Less wages, management
exes., etc 72,260 74,026 66,594
Depreciation . . . . 5,000 5,000 5,000
Net profit . . . . £27,514 £21,203 £19,024
In the first table the net profit for the July
half of 1015 is shown less £3OOO put aside to
meet war taxation. The slide in profits—-
31 p.c. in three years—is sufficient excuse
for Ginger-beer to throw up his hat. Six
o’clock closing is primarily responsible, of
course. A co. like Toohey’s is hit in two
ways: curtailed trading hours mean not
only smaller brewings but decreased rents
from hotel properties, for a thirst-shop that
has five of its best trading hours denied it is
not worth the old rent. And as in other indus-
tries. the cost of production has also ad-
vanced rapidly. There have been attempts
to raise the price across the bar, but compe-
tition has been so keen that the movement
hits never been unanimous—Bung has
always been liable to revert suddenly to old
prices to catch the trade of the fellow 7 across
the road.
Something had to be done, especially when
Treasurer Bigjohn suddenly imposed further
excise duty. So the assistance of the kind
breweries was sought; and the three Sydney
beer cos. and Castlemaine-Wood Bros., of
Newcastle, obligingly spread themselves on
the same letter-paper to tell Bung the con-
ditions on which they w 7 ould sell him their
beer, at the same time enclosing a price list
from the Licensed Victuallers’ Association
setting out the minimum charges to be made
across the bar. To ensure observance, the
breweries agreed to invoice their customers
at increased prices as from September 10,
the amount to be rebated only if they were
satisfied that Bung had charged not less
than Id. for 14oz. of beer and froth. The
same arrangement has been come to between
licensed victuallers and brewers in other
States.
So the beer business is not the sweet thing
it was a couple of years ago. In 1910 Labor
climbed into the N. S. Wales Treasury for
the first time and started to scatter loan
money, and the more that was splashed the
harder the beer-pumps were agitated. But
w r ar-time restrictions have blighted the har-
vest from the pint-pot, and now 7 the State
has just about reached the limit of its over-
draft. When the w 7 ar terminates there wrill
certainly be a big effort to retain six o’clock
closing. And, for some years, at any rate,
it is unlikely that there wrill be any more
borrowing booms. The Devil is going to he
sick for a wffiile after the w r ar; and when
the Devil is sick
This shows how Toohey’s is built to stand
the strain :—■
July, ’l2. July,'l6. July,’l7.
Liabilities, less cash . . £57,503 £66,056 £86,248
Breweries, hotels and plant 335,737 400,021 398,219
Stocks 86,109 99,411 138,723
Book debts .. .. 134,877 160,491 148,083
Capital is £400.000; and brewery, plant and
machinery, rolling stock, freehold and lease-
hold properties are set down at £398.219.
Five years ago the surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities w 7 as £163,483; at July 31
last the surplus w 7 as £200,558 —an improve-
ment of £37,075 apart from wdiat may have
been added to plant, etc. Altogether, the
co. views the disturbed times from a comfort-
able chair. But this is what the market
thinks of it: the month before Mad Bill
commenced blood-letting 275. was the ruling
price for Toohey’s 16s. shares; the other day
there was a sale at 16s. 6d.
* * * *
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers and suppliers of station goods:
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
July,’lo.. 7,252 10 p.c.= 3500 3000 752 39,609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO. . 29,609
Jan.,’ll.. 7,450 1,0 p.c.= 4000 3000 450 30,059
July,’ll.. 7,852 10 „ ~4000 3000 852 30,911
Jaii., ’l2. . 10,445 10 „ ~4250 0195 37,106
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO. . 27,106
Premiums on new shares .. .. 4000 31,106
July,’l2. . 10,742 10 p.c.= 4750 5992 37,098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000. . .. 58,098
Jan.,’l3.. 9,124 10p.c.~ 5000 4124 62,222
July,’l3.. 7,895 10 ~,,5000 ■— 2895 65,117
Jan.,’l4.. 8,532 10 ~,,5000 3532 68,649
Julv, ’14.. 7,670 10 ~,,5000 2670 71,319
Jan.,’ls.. 8,662 10 ~,,5000 3000 662 71,981
Julv,’ls.. 8,203 10 „ ~ 5000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan.,’l6.. 9,121 10 ~,,5000 4121 78,305
July,’l6.. 8,141 10 ~,,5000 3141 81,446
Inner reserves disclosed, £14,195. . .. 95,641
Jan.,’l7.. 8,526 10 p.c.= 5000 3526 99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £25,000. . 74,167
July,’l7.. 8,125 10 p.c.= 6250 1875 76,042
This co. has got on to as rich a vein as any
reasonable money-spinner could (if there are
any reasonable money-spinners) wish for.
Seven years ago, as the foregoing table shows,
its capital was £70,000 and it had under
£40,000 of reserves that you could see. To-
day the capital is £125,000 and the reserves
are £76,042; and meantime the only new
money got in was £14,000, of which £4OOO
was in the shape of premiums on an issue of
4000 shares. (They are all 50s. fully paid.)
This means that the co. lias got £77,000 to
the good in seven years; and all the while a
dividend lias been paid nominally of 10 p.c.,
hut actually of 161 on most of the capital.
Further, this very fine performance hasn’t
been accompanied by increasing risks. In
fact, over £40,000 of the surplus profits
made in recent years is in War Loan or cash
and most of the balance is in stock—the sort
of stock for which there is a constant back-
country demand.
Here are figures running back 10 years:
Julv,’o7. July,’l6. Jan.,’l7. Julv,’l7.
Liabilities.. . . £51,470 £37.359 £35,223 £45.591
Premises, plant, etc. 18,211 18,181 19,461 20,944
Stock .. .. 29,800 59,670 51,713 53,167
Book debts .. 85,141 65,669 82,736 89,119
McCulloch Co. . . 18,386 39,954 38,307 39,519
Public securities.. 20,000 20,000 20,000
Cash ... .. 6,020 18,830 24,673 28,008
The McCulloch Co. is registered in Victoria
and is on the roads there; Wright ' Heaton
holds all the shares. The capital is £25,000;
the other £14,519 consists of advances. The
business is understood to have been
very profitable for some years past.
But there was a time when it wasn’t. The
old Wm. McCulloch Co. had a capital of
something like £120,000, and lost more than
half of it. Drought, of course, was respon-
sible. Management never is to blame.
Still the disappearance of so many carrying
firms after flourishing for a season suggests
that this is a business in which money can
be pretty easily wasted. Wright Heaton of
course are something more than carriers
—and much more nowadays than ever.
They are produce salesmen and station-
supply merchants, and do a whole lot of
things that country producers ought to do
for themselves. The trouble is that in nine
cases out of 10 the men who push to the
front in cocky movements are men who talk
too much to give themselves time to think ;
and the chances of that class of man doing
any better for cocky than Wrieht Heaton
does for them are very poor indeed.
* * * *
Arthur Cocks & Co., Ltd., wholesale
traders in optical goods, etc. For goodwill
£12,000 was paid in shares, and that and
flotation exes, represent the deficit with
which the co. started :
, Dividends. v To Re- De-
July, Profit. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, licit.
1911.. —' £12.844
1912.. £10,861 £lO9O 10p.c.= £5404 £4367 8,477
1913.. 7,373 1112 8 „ „ 4327 1934 6,543
1914.. 7,333 1414 4 „„ 2164 3765 2,788
1915.. 6,648 1503 7$ „ „ 4057 1088 1,700
Reserves.
1916.. 10,532 150.3 10 „ „ 5409 3620 1,920
1917.. 11,945 1503 10 „ „ 5409 5033 6.953
In 1913-4-5 it looked as though the public
had put tts money into a trade in which
there wasn’t much profit. But really all
that had happened was that, probably
through using expensive borrowed money to
go into lines in which there was a poor
margin, profits were smaller than in the
first year that the public became inter-
ested. Then the war started, and trade was
dislocated. But note this: even in the
three disappointing years, when the ordinary
dividend averaged p.c., enough profit was
put by to pay another 4 p.c. A business
which in its disappointing years can make
101 p.c. on its ordinary capital isn’t in the
booby class. Nevertheless, from an exami-
nation of the figures it looks as though some
of the less remunerative business was cut
out; with the result that the last two years
have not only shown a marked increase in
profits, but those profits have been made
without risking outsiders’ capital to any ex-
tent. As at June 30 liabilities (apart from
contingent liabilities for taxation, etc.)
amounted to only £16,063, and most of that
was ordinary trade debts. As to that con-
tingent liability, the co., in addition to the
reserves shown above, has £o4<o put by to
meet taxes; also, though it has thus tat
charged Profit and Loss with all known bad
and doubtful debts, it has £1787 of a bad
debts reserve, and some other small contin-
gencv accounts. Altogether it appears to be
careful not to paint the lily when it bands
the bouquet up once a year for inspection
by shareholders. The conservative policy is
further indicated by the fact already men-
tioned that in the three disappointing yeans
£6787, or a shade over 4 p.c. p.a. on the
ordinary capital, w 7 as still put by as a result
of the prompt reduction of dividend.
Capital is £54,093 in ordinary shares fully
paid and £21,470 in 7 p.c. pref. shares. Of
this capital goodwill represented £12,000;
and, though it still stands at that figure in
the hooks, reserves of nearly £19,000 have
been accumulated in six years. All the capi-
tal and £7OOO besides is therefore now in
tangible assets. These consist almost ex-
clusively of stock (£62,788) and book debts
(£39.859). There is no freehold property
item; but cash and “investments” run into
a handy £5719. The man who wants liquid
assets and freeholds to secure his principal
must not look to these shares. But he wrill
be very lucky if he can find an investment
thus secured which shows 18 p.c. p.a. on its
ordinary capital, as this co. has done dur-
ing the past couple of years.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. of Tasmania (Hobart) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
1907.. £1519 8 p.e. = £B4O £679 £7,848
1908.. 1376 8 „ „ 840 536 8,384
1909.. 1701 8 „ „ 840 861 9,245
1910.. 2395 9 „ „ 956 1439 10,684
1911.. 2053 10 „ „ 1121 932 11,616
1912.. 1308 10 .„ ~ 1099 209 11,825
1913.. 1607 10 „ „ 1066 54.1 12,366
1914.. 2035 15 ~,,1606 429 12.795
1915.. 1345 15 „ „ 1602 12,538
1916.. 1668 15 „ „ 1575) 12,373
Written off, £258 /
1917.. 2005 15 p.e. = 1575 430 12,803
This old-established co. —it goes back to
1887 —does not tell you much about itself in
its accounts. The amount of trusts in hand
is not stated ; and nearly half the assets are
referred to vaguely as “Sundry debtors,
£13,062.” The Bulletin would be better
satisfied if it knew what w 7 as in that heap.
Maybe it consists chiefly of advances to
unrealised trysts for probate purposes, etc.,
and the security in that case is all right.
Paid capital is £10,000; and a further
£40,000 is liable to be called up for salvage
purposes if the management shouid run any
of its trusts on a mud-bank. Profit figures
are erratic; apparently the co. does not go
out of the way to equalise commission earn-
ings. Therefore it isn’t to be assumed that,
having passed £2OOO once, the profits will
stay there. On the experience of the past
four years, the 15 p.c. div. is a bit of a
strain, and, in consequence of much larger
outgoings, the rate is more likely to be re-
duced than increased within the next few
years.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation, Ltd., was re-
formed as at July 1, 1911, to amalgamate the
old Zinc Corporation and the Broken Hill
South Blocks; and it is not much use carry-
ing the figures back beyond that amalgama-
tion. Since then: —
, Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Off. serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
’ll.. 75.121 30p.c. = 36,854 20p.c-= 32,657 Nil 3.733
’12..266.276 37£ ~ ~ 92,135 35 „ „ 1 >4.299 40,636 22.939
’l3 210 236 35 „ „ 85.992 30 „ „ 97,971 22,551 26,661
’l4 143,635 20 49.1.38 22.275 98.883
’l5 .136.156 25 „ „ 61,423 10 „ „ 32,657 121,032 19,927
’16..230,740 37£„ ~92,135 35 ~ ~114,299 18,262 25,971
This co.’s share capital is £572,262, in
245,692 £1 pref. shares fully paid and
653.139 ordinaries of 10s. fully paid. The
prefs. are entitled to a cumulative div. of
20 p.c. and to share ratably in any surplus
profits with ordinaries. For the past year
the prefs. got first their 4s. and then came
in wdth the ordinaries for another 3s. 6d. per
share. They thus got 7s. 6d. on their £1
and the ordinaries 3s. 6d. on their 10s.;
and the amazing thing is that British and
Australian income tax and Australian min-
ing royalty combined for the year amounted
to only £21,949. If the co. escapes at that
it may reckon itself very fortunate; other
people may reckon themselves very unfortu-
nate.
The net profit of £212,478 has, moreover,
been made with the zinc concentrator work-
ing less than half-time (179| days) and
the lead nlant 230 days. Further, only two-
thirds of the zinc concentrates have been sold ;
48,313 tons were produced and at the end
of the year 16.189 tons were stacked at the
mine. These latter have been taken in at
cost. The directors probably couldn’t do
anything else in view of the great uncer-
tainty with regard to the future of this
metal; but that a co. should have been able
to make such a profit from 32.000 tons of
zinc concentrates and 34,557 tons of lend
concentrates, plus a small quantity on hand
at the commencement of the year shown
what war prices have done for" it. ’ Which
only makes the small contribution to wan
taxation the more inexplicable.
The co. has had no difficulty in disposing
of its lead concentrates. The Associated
Smelters, in which this co. has a £lOOOOO
interest, has taken them all. But the “») u .
tion of the zinc problem,” which so far is
Australia was concerned was the only nietVl
problem, is so little of a solution that of the
available 48,326 tons only 32,137 tons have
been sold, and Japan took 19,448 tons' of
that. The trouble, too, is that not only
this co. but all the others at Broken Hiil
are accumulating vast stocks of concentrates
Heaven only knows what they are going to
do with them. There are small works at
Port Pirie capable of producing about 5000
tons of spelter a year; but this co. alone
could supply all the concentrates required
for that lot in less than two months. Small
electrolytic works are also under erection in
Tasmania; and though they may be big bv
and bye, tlie question is: What are thev
going to do with the metal? There may be
a market also for zinc concentrates in Eng-
land. But. though the Government there is
helping people to erect smelters, very little
is being done, and not much will be done
until the country definitely adopts Protection.
Meantime the T7.S.A. have erected plant
sufficient to produce the whole pre-war
normal requirements of the world.
Chairman Govett is under no more illu-
sions than The Bulletin about “the solu-
tion of the zinc problem” :
There are probably hard times ahead for smelters,
for there is going to be more spelter offering than
will supply the world’s demand, with the usual
result. Outside the Empire spelter is likely to be
cheap: but here in England the cost of production
will be much increased, and without Protection,
without a tariff, any idea of spending money on
plant seems to me simply rotten. We might just as
well throw our money into any ditch.
Meantime, the market in Belgium, France
and Germany being entirely closed, and there
being still none worth mentioning in Britain,
the cos. looked to America; but as there is
now no shipping available to take the con-
centrates there, they continue to pile up
in Australia. Govett, further discussing the
position, told the shareholders :—•
You can see then what a horribly complicated
problem is presented in the production of spelter
within the Empire, depending as it does on the in-
creased demands of labor and increased cost of
materials, of over-production outside the Empire, the
need for Protection within, the changing character
of the metallurgy involved, and for a long time after
the war the shortage and expense of freight. It will
need our patience ; but, meantime, we can afford to
stack our concentrates and take our profit on the
lead.
So long as lead and silver maintain anything
like their present prices the cos. will be all
right. And, though silver is not at all likely
to stay up where it is, the lead producer is
probably in for a good time; for the Ameri-
can has not been either greatly increasing his
output or opening up fresh sources of supply.
The new sources of supply don’t, in fact,
seem to exist.
Meanwhile the Zinc Corporation, in addi-
tion to its million and a quarter tons or
thereabouts of zinc tailings (on which it
owes only £36.287 payable by quarterly in-
stalments over a term of years), has: (1)
the South Blocks mine, which, though rather
low-grade, especially in silver, has opened up
splendidly, and has 1,710,631 tons of ore in
reserve; (2) assets valued at £501,000 exclu-
sive of mine and plant and tailings dumps
and after providing for liabilities and sus-
pense accounts. This, however, includes the
£lOO.OOO invested in the Associated Smelters
and about £lOO.OOO of miscellaneous invest-
ments, largely mining and metallurgical. But
if, takes a lot of money to finance a business
of this kind at present, when so much of one
of the products has to be stacked, and the
cash at bankers on December 31 was down
to £43,803, though there was another £50.000
or thereabouts in Treasury bills. Liabilities
at the same date were £56,120.
Vale of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co.,
late the Vale of Clwydd Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Doc., 1910.. £3505 10 p.c. = £2250 £1255 £9,610
June, 1911.. 2558 10 „ „ 2250 308 9,918
Doc., 1911.. 2775 10 „ „ 2250 525 10,443
June, 1912.. 2058 10 „ „ 2250 408 10,851
Dec., 1912.. 3511 10 „ „ 2250 1261 12,112
June, 1913.. 63G4 10 „ „ 3000 3364 15,476
Assets written up and £15,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1913.. 6429 10 p.c. = 3000 3429 18,905
June, 1914.. 6316 10 „ „ 3000 3316 22,221
Cash Bonus from special profits, £7500.
Dec., 1914.. 4414 10 p.c. = 3000 1414 23,63->
June, 1915.. 3396 10 „ 30 0 0 39 6 2 4,031
Bonus, 124,, ~ 7500 )
Dropped out of Reserves, £1747 j
Doe., 1915.. 2858 10 p.c. = 3000 14.642
June, 1916.. 2917 10 „ „ 3000 1h 559
Written off renewals reserve, £1570 12,989
Dec., 1916.. 2634 5 p.c. = 3000 12.623
June, 1917.. 2955 5 „ „ 3000 12,578
What is happening is what was expected to
happen. For some years, when the A. S.
Wales Labor party threw 7 its principles to


When instructing your Solicitor
to draw
YOU R WILL
direct him to n;:me
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
AS YOUR EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of the assets
and obtain a degree of Security for I’j'oper
Administration far beyond the power of the
private “amateur” trustee.
An interesting booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CHAMBERS.
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
.Reversionary Bonus of
£OO for one year . . . . 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 5 11
Have you installed a G.E. Voltage Regulator on
your system? If not, by doing so you can reduce
your operating expenses, because a single regulator
will control satisfactorily all the generators and
exciters in the station when operating in parallel,
thus not only decreasing your staff and reducing
your wage bill, but also increasing your output
whilst lessening your expenditure. Write us for
particulars. Australian General Electric Conipanv,
Sydney and Melbourne.— Advt.
» * * »
Experience is a juggler who has changed many
a man’s money into sense. Don’t juggle with the
roofing question: specify “Adamax” Asphaltum
Roofing and you will get the best returns in service
and protection that money can buy. “Adamax”
Roofing is fire-, rain-, rust- and time-proof. In
price it is one-third lower than galvanized iron;
freight charges also are reduced by approximately
the same amount. These qualities, in conjunction
with the saving in time of erection, make
“Adamax” the most reliable and economical roofing
for use on buildings of every description. Write
for booklet, “The Adamax Series.” William Adams
and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth
and Adelaide.— Advt.
* * * »
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for' themselves in
America.— Advt. [ \
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the logical pipe for water
systems, has greater carrying capacity, is easier to
handle and to lay, is lighter and saves cost in
freight, costs from 25 per cent, to 60 per cent, less
than metal pipes, and is the cleanest pipe for convey-
ing water, which preserves instead of corroding wood
pipe, making it last indefinitely. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited, (head office) 57 York Street, Sydney.
I‘actories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.; and
Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments. — Advt.
Go nap every time on Asbestolite as the sure
winning building material. There are five certain
tricks—economy, durability and workability, ant- and
fire-proof, and unexcelled, handsome, finished appear-
ance. It improves with age, is stocked in all handy
sizes. Amiwud and all finest Three-ply Veneers, Lot-
toid Plaster Sheets also stocked. Get instructive
booklet “B,” Spriggs’s Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and llassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane. Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * *
Gyratory Rock Crusher, from Australian stock.
The world-renowned “McCully” No. 4 Manganese
fitted. Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Apply,
sole representatives: Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
Head Office, The Quay, Sydney; or The Australian
Machinery Co. Ltd., 130 Charlotte-street, Bris-
bane.—Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done a wav
with. — Advt.
* * . .
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice WrPe
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory. Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oert line's
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H B
?°”J jtC V ** o’ Connen street . Sydney;'and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. —Advt.
£are Bornto
Insure in
Tk 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital . .. 90,165 6 6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
ACENTS WANTE
D.
Efitabliihed 1910.
Branches in every State.
1 Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
ELECTRIC STEEL
THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.
In the form of CASTINGS or INGOTS of Exceptional
Purity and Soundness, to meet the most Stringent
Chemical and Physical Specifications.
Made for the Fir«t Time in Australia by Australian Labor from Australian Raw Materials.
Suppliers of Special Steel to the separate State Governments.
AUSTRALIAN ELECTRIC STEEL LTD.,*!".™.
the dog's and started to make a boom on
borrowed money, profits of most trading con-
cerns whooped ahead, simply because wages
hadn’t had time to adjust themselves. Then
came new wages awards by the shoal, and
profits eased off in consequence. It was then
very often pointed out that the time would
presently come when the loan drunk would
stop, but that the wages awards, etc., would
continue in force for years after the condi-
tions ceased to justify them. We haven’t
felt the full force of this yet, because the
huge war loans have to some extent taken
the place of the State loans. But what has
been happening on the railways of N. S.
Wales is part of the natural procession of
incidents. Here the wages and other condi-
tions of employment were made more and
more favorable, and it didn’t matter while
the loan-drunk lasted. When that was
over it began to matter a lot; and the card
system was simply a first effort to make it
possible to maintain the wages and other
conditions laid down during the boom. But
it is no use humbugging either ourselves or
the railway and tramway men. While the
card system may, and no doubt will, post-
pone the evil day, neither that nor anything
else that is within the region of probability
can save these and other workers from re-
duced wages and less favorable conditions.
How far the fall will be will depend almost
entirely upon one thing: the vigor which
workers, and especially productive workers,
put into their toil. Nothing is more certain
than that the continuance of strikes makes
the outlook gloomier, and the longer men
remain out the more impossible will it be to
maintain present awards.
Here is a case in which for some time the
co. did extraordinarily well, and sharehold-
ers got some sweet bonuses. Things are
different now. The co., having money to
burn —six years ago it had £17,000 on de-
posit—put over £12,000 into brickworks.
P. and L. account credits this investment
with a return of only £7l for the past half-
year ! Another view of the proceedings can
be got from this comparison :
June,’l2. June,’l6. Dec.,’l6. June,T7.
Liquid assets. . £21,592 £23,132 £18.870 £21,309
Liabilities .. 4,667 1,986 1,922 6,434
Surplus ..£16,925 £21,146 £16,948 £14,875
So the liquid surplus has been cut into for
£6OOO during the past 12 months. It may
be all right, for a good deal of money has
been spent on plant of late. All that is cer-
tain is that the co. hasn’t now got the cash
and that its visible profits are none the
better even though the cash or some of it
may have been spent on plant. Capital is
£60,000. Liabilities, as shown above, art;
very small. In addition to the £21.300
of iiquid and semi-liquid assets, the co. has
£48,600 in mine property and plant and
£11,584 in brickworks. Though the immedi-
ate future hasn’t anything brilliant in store,
it is nevertheless certain that for a co. with
a capital of £60.000 the Vale of Clwydd
assets are very valuable.
From a man who has been eating coal-
dust all his life: —
The. popular impression that prior to the recent
amendment of the N. S. Wales Goal Mines Regula-
tion Act no person was permitted to work at the
eoal-face unless he had had two years’ experience is
as foolish as it is erroneous. It is on a par with
the observation of the man who, while endeavoring
to put on a pair of new boots, remarked that he
would never be able to do it until he had worn them
a week or so. It is true that the original Coal
Mines Regulation Act said that no man should be
allowed to get coal unless he was experienced, but
there was a proviso which allowed the stranger to
swing a pick at the coal-face as long as he was
in company with an experienced man. That’s the
way the writer started getting coal, and he can-
didly admits (with feelings of gratitude) that on
two occasions, had it not been for the experience
and watchful eye of his mate, he would have been
squashed.
In theory, then, the coal-miners have not had a
monopoly of their job. But in practice the state-
ment as to a monopoly is supported by the fact
that coal-miners choose their own mates and would
not under any circumstances agree to work with
men introduced into the pits for no other purpose
than to weaken their (the miners’) position. The
principal objection of the miners to free labor in the
pit is that willy-nilly they will have to share the
responsibility of protecting the free laborers’ heads.
Another objection is that inexperienced men are
apt to make mistakes that would endanger the lives
of the old miners.
Coal-mining is an occupation in which brains are
every bit as essential as brawn. A man with a
head on his shoulders, by going the right way about
it, will get twice as much coal as a mass of muscle
surmounted by a pimple of intelligence and
probably with half the exertion. The brainy man
is not working long underground before he acquires
what might be called a sixth sense —something akin
to feeling and hearing. He “feels” the weight of
the roof and the coal-face by tapping it here and
there; he “feels” the seam “working” as the holing
crackles away from the point of his pick ; he hears
scaly bits of stone dropping about him and knows
that the roof is “working” ; and when he hears the
timber creaking and the hollow croak and bump
that denotes the parting of the deep stone, he gets
out of the road until “she settles a bit.” It is
unthinkable that inexperienced men would be asked
to work alone under such conditions; supervision by
practical men is indispensable, and must be pro-
vided if free labor is retained in the mines.
Granted that to meet this crisis a desperate
remedy was demanded. But in view of the fore-
going it is still incumbent on us to find some
other way of maintaining a regular supply of coal.
The public, after the latest experience, will rightly
decline to accept the mere undertaking of the miners
not to strike. Something more is necessary. As
a beginning, let the Miners’ Federation, and each
district and each lodge include in its rules one in
black type that there shall be no cessation of
work, sectional or otherwise, unless by a secret
ballot the members so decide. A substantial money
guarantee should be put up to bind this pledge.
* * * *
Mt. Hope (N.S.W.) had to shut down
on September 5 because its products had
been declared black by the Kembla refinery
employees, having passed over the State’s
“black” railways. However, early this week
they became “white” again, so work will
start at once. The co. had shocking luck
over this strike. It had spent all last year
and the first half of this in opening up the
mine and getting a mill and leaching plant
ready and organising and training a staff.
In August three shifts were at last put on
at the mill, and the co. started to get out its
estimated 60 tons of copper a month. Ore
developments are very satisfactory, and
since May the railway has been opened for
traffic to within 10 miles of the mine.
* * * *
Before Arthur Moline left Cock’s Pioneer,
Eldorado (Vie.), to work with Dyason at
Bendigo, he completed a half-year’s tally. In
that time ne sluiced 365,000 cub. yards,
which was a record, beating his preceding
run by 43,000 cub. yards. Then he took out
of the boxes 3783|0z. gold against the previ-
ous 2861f0z.; but his tin concentrate output
went down from 55 tons to 38f tons. Still
the general average ran out at 15.173 d. per
cub. yard against 11.726 d. Of course, war
prices for tin helped him there. On the
other side, because labor wants its bit and
because dredge supplies are scarce, costs
moved from 8.46 d. to 8.9 d. per cub. yard,
which on a big turnover of drift means more
than 3d. altogether. Though sluicing started
only last year, Moline has already put
£20,000 of profits into the Collins House
treasury, his last half-year’s work alone
netting £9450. lie leaves the co. with £6852
of surplus assets to play with and a nice
standard for his successor, Falconer, to live
up to.
* * * •
Cathcart Victory, now run by Jas. Paton,
of Stawell, has screwed a thousand out of
Minister Livingston to help it test the old
Hopkins lead, close to Ararat (Vic.). Its
shaft is below where the rich Garden Gully
and Headmans shallow gutters drop into
the main system and a mile away from
where Percy Cook’s crowd chucked up the
sponge at No. 1 shaft. The co.’s tangible
asset, manager Alec Dow, thinks he has a
chance. So does George Bryant at Langi
South, four miles away on the big Langi
gutter; and it will take calls in each case
to decide who’s right.
George Buchanan, of the Ajax North,
Daylesford, is deferring divs. so 'as to build
a reserve of £5OOO. This won’t suit Bal-
larat, which loves to finger every cent of
cash as soon as it is made. Buchanan’s re-
straint on this occasion is due to the wish
of manager Hansen to see what’s what at
No. 9 level north, where, as the shoots of
stone pitch south, there is the chance of
picking up fresh ones. The best stone now
comes from the stopes on the western reef at
700 ft. The mine average doesn’t run at
present up to 10dwt., so the shoot here is
not panning out to the grade of the stuff got
in No. 7 rise about 30ft. up. Hansen has
the belief that he may get gold in McMillan’s
reef to the west, so he is crosscutting at
500 ft.
* * * *
Bad luck was with the Bendigo tributors
on the Garden Gully west reef at 1552 ft.
when they knocked off their rise 15ft. up
because gold didn’t show in it. Now Dyason
has gone higher and got massive plum-pud-
ding specimen stone. Some if it is to be put
on view on the Block for the yokels to look
at during Melbourne Show week. Still, that
bit of burley doesn’t account for the better
buying of Bendigo Amalgamated shares. The
diamond drill is now to be stuck into Paddy’s
Gully centre country from the 790 ft. cross-
cut of the Garden Gully mine to a depth of
450 ft. below the workings. This is the first
time Bendigo has seen the systematic use of
the drill in a hunt after saddle reefs, and
old-timei’s can’t think why Dyason can’t see
that drilling means wasted cash. How can
he know more’n his dad?
* * * *
Exit Cathcart Central, Ararat (Vic.),
after yielding 67,02940 z. go’d from 35 560
fathoms of wash. Shareholders put up 6s.
lOd. per share (£17.0831 and got back 475.
lOd. per share (£119,583) in divs. The
chief mourners were Harry Dodd and George
Bryant, the two cuckoos who never would
adm.t till Jimmy McCrorey proved the
opposite that Cathcart Central had Buckley’s
chance of getting the lead out of which it has
paid its dividends.
Proprietary now claims to have
85,416 tons in sight worth about 21s. 9d.
per ton. Some of this ore, however, does
not lend itself to prompt extraction, as cer-
tain blocks are serving as supports. Liquid
assets, apart from reserves and equipment,
amounted to £12,747 at the recent balance,
and the co. owed £8723. The financial posi-
tion does not promise to improve, either.
Black Range West is unwatering the old
Black Range at Sandstone (W.A.), and
hopes to do well by-and-bye. Before the
water drove the tributors out of the No. 1
level they were alleged to be breaking 30dwt.
ore. Yet the old Black Range Co. had
abandoned the show as hopeless!
* * * *
Edna Central is still battling with consti-
pation in the ore reserves. In the January
half-year manager Giblin blew away a lot
of froth; this half-year he completes the job.
While he earned for the six months a net
profit of £0341 he was called on to pay out
£5BOO on mipital account. This cut out all
chance of divs. and ate into ore reserves so
badly that his total now is 11,000 tons of
40s. stone against 22,000 tons of 325. dirt at
the start of the term. Thus is driven home
the fact long since set out by The Bulletin
that unless Edna Central gets another ore
shoot it will never make much of a splash.
Giblin’s milling was 16.022 tons for 5889J0z.,
or 31s. 3d. per ton, which when set against
an estimated 325. proves how nicely these
up-to-date chaps can do things. Half the
stone milled came from the South reef. As
only 16 p.c. was dragged from the main
Edna lode on which the co. was floated, how
parlous would have been the position if the
New reef hadn’t turned up! Costs were
11s. 3fd. for mining and 3s. 4d. for milling,
but with the 71ft. level worked out these
figures won’t recur. The set-off will
be _ a return from. the cyanide plant,
which with 14s. in the residues and
a big stock of accumulated sands will help
the revenue. The impertinent inquiry may
be put to chairman Snowball: “When was
it Giblin’s supplementary report, dated Sep-
tember 12, and sent ‘by wire,’ reached the
office, and when was it given to the dailies?”
In it Giblin tells that he will have to reduce
the monthly milling from 2600 tons to 2000
tons, until he can get ore opened in the east-
ern section of the mine. Does he mean the
shoots making, in from the Consolidated?
If so, they can’t be relied oil yet, for it
isn’t proved that they have much size or
regular values. Even if they are valuable a
pretty penny will be sucked up before help
can come from that end of the claim. Hence
the odds are long that with the failure of the
good stopes on the New reef, the pumping
now to be done, and the cost of opening up
the eastern section, the New l T ear will not
see another div. unless a Deeps surprise
happens. The mine record of 84,374 tons
for £108,733 of gold and three Is. divs. only,
reads like the returns of a Victorian alluvial
stringer.
* * * *
It is announced that Edna May Junction,
after three unsuccessful attempts to get
hold of something to boom, has taken an
option over a lease adjoining the Consoli-
dated at Westonia. The vendor is said to
want only shares in exchange for the block.
That is one story. Another is that the
option is next to the Main Lode, a quarter of
a mile away from the Consolidated’s work-
ings, and has for years past been lying idle.
♦ * * *
The very much exhausted Oroya Links
(W.A.) admits a loss of £7591 for the past
financial year. Liquid assets amount to
£56,262, and 158.380 tons of ore, estimated
to average 245. 9d., are reckoned to be in
sight. But, alas, no profit is to. be made
from this ore under present conditions!
* * # *
Central Briseis tin (Tas.) is to be put
on the market by speculators who have
secured options over what is practically a
deep lead trending towards Derby from old
workings operated some years ago by Briseis
Extended. There’s talk, too, of "utilising
water-power from the Colombia Falls; but
nothing will come of that until the tin
drifts below the basalt have been thoroughly
proved.
Somebody supposed to be the Broken Hill
Prop, has been looking for manganese and
magnesite deposits in Queensland.
Three years ago the Anchor tin mine,
Lottah (Tas.), fell into the hands of the
State. The Government advanced the co.
£6OOO, and had to take the show over for
the debt. For a few months the miners
worked on tribute, but not being able to
make a living gave it up. Since then the
show has been for sale. The best bid the
Government could get was £2OOO, offered by
Kennedy Bros., an engineering firm of
Hobart. As all the other offers for the
machinery were made with the intention of
carting it away the Minister accepted the
Ivennedys’ offer. They intend to work the
mine, and let parts on tribute. There ought
to be something in it at the present price of
tin.
One of the promising effects of this war
can be seen at the works of Charles Ruwolt,
at Richmond (Melbourne), where manganese
steel is now manufactured and the largest
steel castings yet made in Australia are
produced. Quality seems attested by the
Vic. Railways taking their loco, driv-
ing-wheel centres from these works. Though
for the present there is no worry
about Protective duties, it is up to
the Commonwealth Government to secure
the young and hopeful steel industry
against deadly competition in the future.
Manufacturers who have risen to the occasion
and seized their opportunity must be placed
beyond question of disaster when European
workers flock back from the trenches and
the protection of high freights and insurance
is removed.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 31f.)


THE SECRET OF BEAUTIFUL HAIR.
No matter how careful you may be of
your hair—how often or how faithfully you
may shampoo or brush it—the hair cannot
attain the thick, glossy brilliance nature in-
tended for all men, women and children so
long as the dandruff germ is sapping the
strength and vitality of the hair-roots. Fre-
quent brushing of the hair and a shampoo
once every two or three weeks are both valu-
able aids to gaining hair beauty, but they
cannot destroy the dandruff germ. Practi-
cally the only way to destroy this germ is to
rub into the scalp twice a day a mixture
prepared by mixing 3oz. Bay Rum with j-
dram Menthol Crystals and loz. Lavona de
Composee. As this preparation not only
destroys the dandruff germ, but is also a
truly marvellous hair-grower, it should be
applied only where hair is desired. Any
chemist can prepare the above formula, or
you can procure the ingredients and mix
them at home; but you must use it regu-
larly ; and be sure to brush your hair fre-
quently and give it an occasional shampoo.
Avoid the frequent use of hot curling-tongs,
as they tend to make the hair dull and life-
less.— Advt.
Vintage 1906
CMPM
ME PLUS DLTRfI
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
AIXAN’B
DANCE
ALBUM
NVI9.
CONTAINS:
THE SECRET” —Waltz Hampton Wood
FAIR ITALY” Varsovianna G. Fetras
FLASH JACK” Polka J. Rolfe
LOVE’S MESSAGE Waltz G. Kingsley
PHANTOM BRIGADE” One Step Clark
FORTY WINKS Schottische A.Jones
BRAVE WARRIORS”March H.Kendall
WHISTLING JIM” Dance Characteristic
Harold Lindsay
SUNNY AUSTRALIA”WaItzT. Andrews
GLORIOUS VICTORY” Two-Step
S. Wall ace
VERDI WALTZ ” Waltz A. Williams
SONGS OF ANZAC” Lancers A. Adam
Sold by all Music Sellers.
Price, 1/3; posted, 1/S
Violin Part, 1/3; Cornet Part, 1/3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <a CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FE.SQ fig CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
Pm?*
r-
'••/iSnw'. ' A -. : —‘
i.‘lV
stf, '*• "o -v '-S^w
,3?
4')
iJffl
;
ft,:
S.B.
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls - iiarron Gorge '
the wonderful hinterland
Sunshine , Palm Trees V
iropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and -Scenic splendour
A.Booklet telling all about »»
is yours for the asking
ft// rn /his coupon
fame
Address
/o /Ac Drrec/or- of
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane. QUEENSLAND
:C' aJ/*
ssss
1
A. WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 24, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
The Munro-Fergusons would have had an
exciting time if they had been in residence
at Admiralty House last week. The solid-
looking old home caught the gale as it
skipped across from Miller’s Point, where it
had unroofed a bond-store and invited the
deluge of rain to take its pick of a quarter
of million pounds’ worth of goods on the
floors. From end to end the roof above the
southern balcony of Government House ( pro
tern.) was torn off and flung into the garden
or, worse still, on to the slates, so that a
gaping hole was left In the roof. Then it
tripped over to Taronga Park, tore away
and sank the new pontoon, and made such
wreckage among the big trees that voluntary
workers fled from the camp by the hundred.
Years ago a noted Quaker named Barna-
bas Hobbs was head of the Indiana (U.S.A.)
State-school system. A daughter is Mrs.
Trueblood. at present in Sydney with her
husband, the Michigan Professor of Oratory.
She notes in a gentle parenthesis—George
Fox liked the soft pedal on the feminine
voice—a difference between the attitude of
certain Australians to the Government
education machine and that of Americans.
In U.S.A. an Ermyntrude Vanderbilt and
her friends would, as youngsters, go to a
State school and weep over the multiplica-
tion table under the same conditions as the
cobbler’s little Honey. “We don’t set much
store on our private schools,” says Mrs.
Trueblood. “The energies of the State con-
centrate in making the public schools so
good that even wealthy Americans can’t
afford—in the education sense —to keep their
children away. Here, we are told, your
well-to-do folk prefer the other method.”
Which is true enough, with this tag to it —
that there are now no schools free from
State inspection. The private school is only
a school at all by satisfying the State that
it deserves to be one.
Here’s an engagement that will interest
you. The pretty and clever Alison Smith,
eldest daughter of a tireless war-worker,
Mrs. Willie Smith, is going to marry Arthur
Dease, of an historic Irish family which
hails from Celbridge Abbey, County Kildare.
He's been in Alsace since the beginning of
the struggle working as stretcher-bearer and
interpreter. An accomplished linguist, the
Irishman will have an Australian bride who
can coo to him in three foreign languages.
Alison uses her gift of tongues as a volun-
tary in the British Intelligence Department,
translating and condensing French, Italian
and German letters. Mother is the financial
prop of 31 beds in a Blighty hospital for
sojers, has installed X-rays there and works
seven days a week for bandaged Australians.
Dr. Fourness Barrington, a Macquarie-
street specialist, has married Nurse Hay,
who used to take temperatures at a Darling-
hurst private hospital. Yet only a few weeks
ago someone emphatically denied the engage-
ment. He was at the end of Dr. Barring-
ton’s telephone, too, when he did it.
Just back home, the wife of Surgeon-Gen-
eral Neville Howse, the Orange doctor who
won the V.C. in the S’African war and the
0.8. and K.C.B. in the present disturbance.
She is now, as it were, a semi-detached
llowse, as the doctor remains in Blighty
as Director of Medical Services for the
A.I.F. in London. Howse has been in
Rabaul, Egypt, Gallipoli and France, and
his courage, tact and administrative capa-
city have brought him right to the top. A
brother, Major A. O. Howse, was with the
A.A.M.C. for a time, and the father was a
surgeon in the Russo-Turkish war.
Fun for baby and the same for mother
was the spirit of the Cranbrook War-Chest
parties. The ex-Governor’s home at Rose
Ray is just now set in a gorgeous Spring
dress, its terraced gardens abloom with
azaleas. In the afternoon Mrs. Laidley and
A.D.C. d’Apice took over the gate and
caught the incoming cash on the wing. Mrs.
Jim Ashton had with her a hefty supper
committee —Mrs. Brunton, Mrs. A. J.
Brady, Miss Fairfax and Mrs. Steer Bowker
were in it. Mrs. Jim Macarthur Onslow
contributed to the indoor decorations. The
committee’s conscience turned pale at the
notion of gathering even a fern from the
old garden which comes, in parts, under the
hammer this week. Two of the ornaments
were lent by Mrs. Charles Waldron. They
were her own beautiful children.
In the afternoon our best babies kicked
up their white kid heels on the lawn or
jigged round in the empty drawing-room.
Some of the fashionable youngsters were
too top-heavy in fancy duds to break into
play till the ice had melted. Even kiddies
suffer from that bad quarter of an hour
which used to be a lingering agony at
solemn dinners. But those hardy demo-
crats, “Punch and Judy,” stirred juvenile
Society to remove its gloves and even stand
on its best hat.
At night the mammas and flappers danced
in the ballroom, the older kiddies having the
drawing-room free for jumping on each
other’s toes. Partners? Solid pater-
familias, young soldiers, King School boys
in grey and scarlet uniforms, and others
scampered round in the crowded rooms.
Mrs. Tom Rolin, wonderfully frocked in
black and white, brought two young
daughters in frothy white. Flounced or
frilled to the waist, most of the girls
floated round with mists of tulle worn like
remnants from a summer-cloud sale. No
sackcloth and ashes —why slipuld there be?
—amongst the women who were dancing
the soles off their satin slippers at 10s. a
head for the War Chest. The Andy Stuart
dame sported a gossamer-lace top to her
blue silk gown. The Earp girls were in
white and mother in pompadour satin. Black
tulle and frills supported Mrs. Yal Osborne
through a dressy evening. Helen
Macarthur Onslow’s cream-and-roses com-
plexion made her one of the white-robed
belles of the party. The lights went out
suddenly in the youngsters’ dance room.
What happened next is only known to the
motor brigade. The humble trammers had
dashed for the last car about 9.20 p.m.
The Anzac Buffet girls and other Y.A.D.
heroines turned out in Wednesday’s storm
to feed a big batch of just-returned soldiers
at the Railway Station. The fine Moreton
Bay fig near the Domain buffet was torn
out by the roots, and the first notion of
driving the sick men to an outdoor meal
was also dragged to ribbons.
Daffodil Stall will be No. 7 on War Chest
day, and will burgeon at the corner of Pitt-
street and Martin-place. The huge muslin
daffodils that bloomed at the Town Hall
Floral Fete will help you to locate No. 7.
Mesdames Guy Pockley, B. Floyd, Donald
Mackey and William Macleod will dominatfe
the benches, which will carry (besides the
daffodils) devilled peanuts, home-made bis-
cuits, nut-loaves, sweets and miscellanies too
numerous to mention. There’s a doll, a
super-doll, in a beautiful bedstead, in the
Pianola Co.’s window in George-street. It
is to be raffled in connection with No. 7.
Don’t miss the Devil’s orchestra at stall
No. 7. There are 12 performers, made by
the clever fingers of Claire Garvan from
those devil seeds that abound in our Moun-
tains.
Owing to the
strike the Women’s
Economy Exhibition
—to give Australian
industries a lift and
show how to turn
even the seam of
your old skirt to
account —has been
pushed on to Nov-
ember 14. Grace
Burrows has been
asked to manage the
affair. Here is
Judith Fletcher’s im-
pression of the mild-
looking lady, who is
yet as firm as tem-
pered steel when she
has to deal with the
occasional exhibitor
who jibs at regulations. No Sydney woman
has handled as many big shows with so little
friction and so much success.
The business man who wants to make a
good investment should step into Alden-
lioven’s gallery in Ilunter-street. Minister
for Education James has just opened there
a show of ’scapes by one of this State’s
daintiest water-colorists, R. Sidney Cocks.
The prices are like the modest tags Hilder
used to put on his work in the days when
he sold at potboiler figures water-colors
that are now almost priceless. Cocks lives
amongst the Mountain mists, and he is more
concerned about the beauty of a sunset than
the hard cash it might bring him. After
seeing his one-man show on its nails the shy
artist fled home to the hills.
One of the Edge family of Orange, Wil-
liam Benjamin (the eldest, and not the Bib-
lical youngest son), was quietly married at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral the other evening.
The best girl, Edie Curzon, hails from Stan-
more. White shimmer and Limerick lace
draped the new Mrs. Edge as she took her
husband’s arm, while bridesmaids Amy Hen-
derson and Holly Verco shook the train into
the right folds.
Rupert Minnett, who used to organise the
decorated motor parades for war funds, is
now in camp, so P. A. Oatley is going to
marshal the floral tyres on Friday.
The strike hit the hard-worked musicians
in half a dozen places. One tender spot was
a concert date. Now there’s a crush of post-
poned events trooping in before the warm
weather sends even the Highbrows to the
surf. Cyril Monk and Frank Hutchens
pulled off a successful last-affair-of-the-
season at the Conservatorium the other
night. Others are warming up their fiddles
and clearing their throats for the 1917 finals.
This Saturday night Evleyn Scotney and
her Howard White open in the Town Hall.
Artist Alice Norton, now Mrs. Stephens,
is over here from Westralia.
Hilda Caro made £5O with her coffee stall
on France’s Day, and she and Mrs. Scott
are going one better for the War Chest spree.
They’ll have a bigger menagerie with chilled
soft drinks as well as coffee all ’ot.
Here is the young
Sydney pianist, Bud-
den Morris, who is
rapidly getting a
front place in Lon-
don. The latest mail
brings another wad
of prai s e s. The
Daily Telegraph
says; “He showed
himself a pianist of
unusually strong and
broad methods....
Nothing but praise
can be given to play-
ing so thoughtful
and virile.” For over
six years a pupil of
our own Yvonne
Charvin, Morris’s
temperament occa-
sionally made the teacher wish that a cracker
or two might explode under his cold tech-
nique. The shyness is apparently wearing
off, and the Australian has caught London
by its musical ear. And there’s no lack of
warmth in a recent letter full of his “grate-
ful thanks” to Yvonne.
There’s a pleasant garden round the
Girls’ Grammar School in Darlinghurst. By
way of making the annual prize-giving an
outdoor affair, Miss Badham changed it
from the customary June to September 19.
So the girls’ party struck Sydney’s worst
gale for years. “Might as well have asked
the visitors to sit in the lily pond as put
them under the trees to-day,” said the chief-
tainess. Indoors, with a small assembly, it
had to be. The Cullen dame emerged with
unruffled feathers from her roomy chariot.
The French Consul addressed the ' Ilairbows
in his native tongue. Consul Watteeuw took
a seat on the platform, and Archbish.
right purred about women’s work in war
time. The witty head made her annual
report and let off the usual mild crackers
at the present cram system of which she sus-
pects the Education Department.
A while back a Sydney woman, Mrs. Roy
Evans, went off to have a look at her hus-
band, whose duty gums him to one of o ur
Pacific possessions. In Rabaul she ran into
Mrs. Ellis Rowan, who was painting the
native blooms. The dauntless little artist —
a mere featherweight l —lately had a close
call with malaria and was urged to return
to Australia while there was a boat handy.
But she tossed the advice aside, swallowed
the right physic, and gave her easel another
push forward, quietly' remarking that she
hadn’t finished her work.
You remember musical Maud Fitzstubbs
twins, the song-and-dance girleens,
Aileen and Doris Moods? The last mail
Irom Japan brings word of their success as
atter-dinner entertainers. They met and
rubbed Australian reminiscences—a more
satisfactory greeting than rubbing noses—
with pianiste Constance Simpson Baikie.
Mrs. “Rolf Boldrewood” Browne, whose
death happened lately in Melbourne, spent
her girlhood on this side of the Murray.
Denham Court, near -Campbelltown, and its
quaint old church were built by Captain
Brookes, her grandfather. At Denham
Court she was chiefly addicted to floricul-
ture and the result was “The Flower
Garden in Australia : A Book for Ladies and
Amateurs,” published by Mullen, of Mel-
bourne, in 1898.
. Donald has just brought out an
• v-P P lc ture-book, “Kid’s Cannon,” to be
sold for the War Chest. But black and
white isn t Donald’s only medium. The
walls of the artist’s home at Neutral Bay
support many samples of color, and in any
spare moments that are left his hands turn to
making vaseware by a process all his own
and the results are very good indeed.
The sporty Melbourne top-notclier in
chess, Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, is going to
show her spring finery on Randwick lawn.
May it take form in the latest device the
Jumper blouse, over a heavily pocketed skirt’
A desire to see the other lady in this garb is
said to animate even our most daring dames.
For the Thing is so like Hodge’s smock—or
would be if the rustic wore ninon and lace
when he hoed a wet turnip-field—that a com-
promise with a belt is being tried in semi-
secret.
The Great Hall at the Uni. was heartily
stamped on at a recent Teachers’ Trainine
College prizegiving, students having been
bidden thither from their ramshackle sheds
at Black-friars. The Macs got away with
a solid helping of reward. Doris Mclnnes
secured the Bourke Memorial prize (given
by Inspector Bourke’s widow), and a lass
named McPhee tied with Rita Young for a
first mention in another list. The new
Teachers’ College in the Uni. grounds is
beginning to rise through its scaffolding.
The woolbrokers’ stenographers and clerks
(feminine gender) will do their bit on War
Chest Day at a fruit, cake and ice-a cream
stand in Macquane-place. Now if the ther-
mometer will only rise to the occasion!
Austral-American war-workers opened a
Women’s Exchange, where tea is brewed
while you wait, this week. It’s in Rowe-
street and for the War Chest. You want to
know what a Women’s Exchange is? /
can't tell you. Let’s call and find out.
Public Service women hope to turn
Queen’s Square into a sort of ’Appy ’Amp-
stead on Friday, September 28. There will
be donkey rides; kiddies will give nursery
rhymes in character: and many other joys
will circulate around the bronze toes of
Queen Victoria. The War Chest catches
the shekels.'
The Spencer Bruntons’ daughter Evelyn
ought to be nearing home from England.
These are anxious days, and the shipping
agents are besieged with questions re the
whereabouts of a long list of Sydney passen-
gers.
The War Chest conspirators had a brain-
wave and approached the button, brooch
and pin from various angles. The half-
crown you spend on the pin may make you
the owner of a car worth over £BOO. There’s
a number on each trinket, and with your
half-crown you buy a chance in the big lot-
tery. If you don’t gamble and still win the
car it won’t be forced on you. There’ll be
some way found to turn it into Billjim com-
forts.
This Spring’s race-coats are more elabo-
rate than any seen since the top blew off
Berlin. The wide collars are clashed with
tartan silk or intersected with criss-cross
ribbon trimming. Ornamental buttons and
bulging pockets are included in the bill,
which is quite worth mentioning in a pained
whisper.
The 7th Field Artillery (lion. sec. Mrs.
Doyle) is featuring War Chest cards de-
signed by Lionel Lindsay and Claude Leplas-
trier. Prof. Welsh supplies the verse.
Colonel Ryrie and one or two other Per-
manent Gunners are over here for a shoot
at Liverpool.
Any woman who forgets the war for five
minutes will get a sharp reminder if she
prices even lightweight summer silk.
Heavens! And largely, they’ll tell you,
because President Wilson suggested a few
months ago that the civilian should keep off
wool and cotton as much as possible—wool
because the soldiers would want lots of it.
and cotton because millions of pounds would
be needed for explosives. Silk stockings—
and good ones at that—are now, as I told
you before, made in Australia. Two firms
are sufficiently patriotic to label them so.
Others prefer to supply the foreign trade-
mark—a shameful truth which recently
burst like a gas-bomb in the faces of some of
the women who are running the National
Economy Exhibition.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


:■ '
M
I
1
■■
1
*
%
m
w
/
■
m
vi.
gm
. *
>
“th fpf
I n LI\L
AMD
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C?L e
Founders of the Rubber Industry, in Australasia
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. PERTH. BRISBANE. HOBART. CHRISTCHURCH AUCKLAND. LAUNCESTON


a
Y 3
Tailoring Dept.
Ist Floor,
Market Street.
High-grade Tailoring
Our present stocks of High-grade Suitings are unique
—made by expert weavers on the best looms from
finest-selected wools. Only one suit-length of excel-
lent selection to each pattern assures an individual-
ity of dress distinctly desirable.
The Suitings are in every respect up to Farmer’s
standard, which is the recognised synonym of abso-
lute perfection.
Sac Suits to Order —£7/7/- to £9/9 -
Samples sent on application.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY.
\AeTtonian
f▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
.[SPECIALTIES
E BROWN © SOJSS LONDON
AOENCItS ♦ ALL - OVER • THE - WORLD
SCHOOL SPORTS
NECESSITIES
at
BUCKLEYS
School and College
BLAZERS
and Good Clothing
for Men and Boys.
-Sf.
I*l
\
i- ■ •
•:rr
; s,fr ?;
S RE;
82791. —A good Day-school Blazer,
in dark and light blue, red and black,
and red and navy, block stripes. All
sizes for boys from 6 to 12 years. All
one price 8/H
Also All-wool Navy Flannel Blazers
for Colleges, with silk and cord edges,
Men’s Blazers, in Flannel, with
colored-cord edges 217-
School or Club Crests embroidered on
pocket from 3/6.
Outfitters by Appointment
to the leading,
Colleges and Schools.
You can Order by Mai
from
BUCKLEY S NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, September 24, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.—
The latest baby of the vice-regal Stanleys
was christened at St. Paul’s Cathedral on
Thursday, and the members of the School
for Mothers, organised by Edith Onians, of
the City Newsboys’ Society, were invited to
attend. They improved the shining hour
not by studying the technique of christenings
so much as in poring idolatrously over the
infant’s ceremonial robe of white satin,
veiled with georgette, and with
white streamers and pink rosebuds. Victoria
Yenetia is the baby’s name, which was why
the georgette was inset with Venetian lace.
Dean Godby performed the incantations,
with acting-precentor Sherwood as mate.
Godmother was Lady Ellison Macartney,
and godfather Colonel O. H. Stanley, who
is with Britain’s gunners in France. Vic-
toria Venetia is the fifth youngster, and
was born on June 29.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen are doing the
round of agricultural shows. They re-
turned on Saturday from viewing Adelaide’s
fat pumpkin, and were faced by Victoria’s
stout ox and the pig without a waist.
Nowadays the John Maddens seem to be
scorning delights and living the simple life
of the socially fed-up, and it looks as though
the household had quite outlived its passion
for crowding into the spotlight. In the long
run most of us come to the chair by the
fireside and the old pair of down-at-heels,
to find the change a blessed relief.
Some of the dolls on the Block who are
tired of war work—not that there are many
—might imitate May Riley, a Carlton girl
who gave up a musical career to be a muni-
tion-worker in England. She was the first
woman to enter the Government factory at
Birmingham, and is still at it, making valves
for aeroplanes. Air raids are a common-
place, and once 24 birds, dropping bombs,
passed over the building, and repassed it in
their flight before the retaliating British
hawks. More of a trial was her experience
with phosphor-bronze, which gives off sicken-
ing fumes and, unless caution is exercised,
turns the operator’s cheeks a dingy yellow.
Rev. Cyril Barclay, who has lately been
getting into hot water for running St.
John’s on lines too “high” for some local
Anglicans, is a son of novelist Florence
Barclay. Cyril looks like the handsome
clerical hero of a Marie Corelli pot-boiler,
and as there is not a Mrs. Barclay he is in
great demand at tennis parties and other
comparatively sacred forms of dissipation.
Dr. Ellis is ill with influenza, so Dr.
Margaret McLorinan is shouldering her
friend’s work as well as her own. Dr.
“Peggy” is the prettiest surgeon in town,
and has such a fascinating way with her
that she scarcely needs to use chloroform.
The young son of Billy Hughes is still
in a critical state as the result of a motor-
cycle accident. Four surgeons have been
in consultation on the case.
General and Mrs. Williams, with Bob,
their son, had a theatre party at Her
Majesty’s on Friday night. Their guests
were a batch of cheery boys invalided home
from the Flying Corps. They sang camp
songs during the interval. Mrs. Pearce’s
pretty daughter, with starry roses in her
hair, sat in the stalls with Mrs. Williams,
while mother, established in the centre circle,
looked down with an extra ehaperonic air.
Miss Henderson, sister of Mrs. Sep
Miller, is busy these days tilling the land
near Macedon. She is not playing fit the
game, either. The local farmers have ceased
to gasp when she pilots her plough, and are
keenly interested in her strawberry and
squab propositions.
The Sam Mackays have floated over to
Sydney for the races, she with a few Sara-
togas and he with a string of horses and
trainers.
That poor but noble marksman, Chia, has
been given an important job in the Chinese
diplomatic service, and is now on his way to
New York from Cathay. Blessed are they
who miss, for they shall be raised up.
Authoress Mabel Emmerton Brookes is
coming out also as a lecturess. She mounts
the platform presently to tell the medical
women’s Red Cross branch her experiences
with the British Crossers. The “medical
women” are the sisters, cousins, aunts and
wives of local practitioners in or out of
khaki.
When their strenuous patriotic work
wearies them, ex-Prime Minister Deakin and
his wife fade away for the week-end to their
seaside humpy at Point Lonsdale, which is
as free from casual visitors as the Garden of
Eden. There they laze together with inter-
vals of billy-boiling and chop-grilling. Amiable
Alfred is bucking up in health of late. The
simple life is rejuvenating.
Early in the war Sassiety feared to dance;
but the ball as a patriotic money-raiser is
whirling unashamed this year. The second
anniversary of the Red Cross Rest Home is
the excuse for the next big revel. October
31 is the date and Wirths’ the place. Plain
and fancy dress.
Melbourne’s new organisation of horse-
women, of which Mrs. Herbert Enabling is
the leading lady, climbed into public notice
over the shoulders of the Purple Cross
Society. Nowadays the more recent hos-
sociation gets most of the limelight. Before
it exchanged its purple ribbons for red,
with the alleged purpose of Winning the
War, a trifle of its parade and gymkhana
collections used to go to the horse-funds;
but at present the concern is far too busy
rounding up its fortnightly recruit to bother
with such matters. The Purple Cross, how-
ever, continues to pursue its less-advertised
way, I'aising veterinai’y-hospital funds, and
thus doing really helpful work.
Flying Lieut. Arthur Geoffrey Nelson Wall
has been killed in action, and Melbourne has
lost a youth of engaging personality. Wall
was a 19-year-old who left Wesley College
to enlist. He was a poet and a mechanic at
34, at which ripe age he had published verses
and built himself a car. His sorrowing
people (he belonged to the tribe of the late
Prout Webb) are ti-easuring a letter written
by him while flying between 6000 and 8000
feet above Gloucester.
The amiable Crane, managing director of
Rowlands, has been made happy by news
from the Front. His 23-year-old Lieut.
Stanley has been “mentioned” for his work
in the artillery. A brother has a military
billet which keeps him in England inspect-
ing foods and drinks.
Word has just come through that Bernard
Hall’s young son Basil has been gassed _ in
Belgium, where the boys have just been doing
so gloriously.
Harold Luxton has been wounded while
flying. He is at Harefield Hospital in Eng-
land, and his wife is somew T here handy with
the two children. Harold manned Ethel,
daughter of solicitor Lewers.
Major Norman Kater, the Sydney mili-
tary doctor, has blown back from the French
army. He wears a dinky little ruby plush
cap and a French powder-blue uniform that
excites feminine cheers.
Lieut. Eric Learmonth has been invalided
home and is due to arrive within a fort-
night. The Western District Learmonths
and all the tribe of related Berrys, Sharps
and Wimbles have broken the news to the
fatted calf. There is to be a round of house
parties.
Bishop “Jack” Stretch is expanding his
broad chest. Son Noel has won a Military
Cross in France by doing something with a
machine-gun.
Gilbert McKinley, who got a Military
Medal three days ahead of his commission,
lies dangerously ill in France. He and bro-
ther Harry, who got away with our first
khakis, returned to the trenches once before
after recovering from serious wounds. Elder
brother Flight-lieut. Gordon was killed in
1915. Alex., the younger boy, is with brother
Harry’s lot, and is hoping to get his stars
shortly. No flies on the McKinley tribe.
Popular Mrs. Norman Wilson expects son
Norman back from the war at any moment.
Dad was one of the bloods of Melbourne
some quarter of a century ago, and his bro-
thers Rawdon and Hector were no tame
Curates, either. Norman, sen., is now judge
at Flemington and Caulfield.
Medical Major Colin Simson gets a well-
deserved Military Cross for tending the
wounded under fire. Colin is one of the
wealthy squatting clan who owned a good
quarter of Toorak between them in the
’eighties.
Adelaide’s prattle:—
On Monday at the Town Hall Lady Munro Ferguson
unveiled our first roll of honor of Army Nurses. Of
the two thousand Nightingales that Australia has sent
to the Front 220 came from South Aus., and seven
of the 57 Orders of the Red Cros3 that have been
conferred have decorated costumes from this State.
The Returned Soldiers and Sailors’ League donated
the memorial.
Thanks chiefly to the Mitcham, Malvern and Hyde
Park Red Cross Circles, a Recreation Hut has been
added to the Military Convalescent Hospital at
Torrens Park, and the key was turned in the door
by Lady Helen on Tuesday. The Hut has kitchen and
pantry, concert room and billiard tables. The
cost, exclusive of furnishing, was close on £lOOO.
The next job for Red Cros3 workers, as Lady Galway
pointed out, is to provide for upkeep and mainten-
ance.
Mr. Bailey is pushing ahead with improvements
in the Botanic Park and Gardens. The Gov.-General,
after a visit to the Kuitpo Forest, put in the best
part of a morning with him casting an approving
expert eye over some of the trees.
Mrs. Quesnel’s concert at the Victoria Hall brought
more grist to the Red Cross mill last week. Her
pupils were the chief performers, helped by Lily
Sara, Lewis Jones and Nora Kyffin Thomas. A few
nights later at the Repertory Theatre there was a
performance of “Doll's House,” which Lady Helen
and Lady Galway attended —practical support for
which the Repertory will be grateful. It hasn't
had an easy time during the war.
Their two Ladyships were the guests at a recep-
tion given by the Victoria League on Wednesday at the
Grand Central. It was the nearest approach to a big
afternoon party we have had since a similar festivity
when the Munro Fergusons were here last year. Lady
Helen made a special plea for extending the news-
paper branch of the League’s work, particularly for
the benefit of soldiers in hospital.
On Thursday evening the Fergusons and the
Galways and about 5000 other citizens attended the
reception and concert at the Exhibition Building
arranged by the Mayor and Mrs. Isaacs.
If statistics go for anything, the five days’ Show
has justified itself. The attendance was 97,000 and
the gate-money £3195, as against 80,000 and £2705
in 1913, which was reckoned a good year.
We put up an unpleasant record on Tuesday, w'hen
actually no men enlisted. However, thank goodness,
there Were plenty of huskies in the streets to cheer
the wounded w 7 ho returned three days later.
If Fate, in the person of Mrs. Glynn, hadn’t in-
tervened, Patrick McMahon of that ilk might have
been a monk instead of an M.P. and have adorned a
monastery instead of the Ministerial benches in the
Australian Parliament. At least, the eloquent Irish-
man said so at a church meeting the other morning.
He had actually made up his mind to monkhood.
Man proposes and woman disposes. All the same, he
had left it rather late in the day to renounce the
world; for Patrick must have been well over 40
before he married.
Friday brought to an end the Munro Fergusons’
ten-days visit. Although her Ex. received news of
her brother’s death the day of her arrival, she
allowed her bereavement to make no difference to
her engagements, and went through everything that
had been planned for her.
There’s a chance that the Governor-General will
pay us another call in the near future as a visitor to
the town-planning conference.
Nan O’Hara, one of the charming daugh-
ters of surgeon O’Hara, has released the
news of her engagement. Nan was visiting
sister Mrs. Stephen Rowan, at the Banana-
land sheep-station, and rode into the heart
of Frank Hill, who owns a sheeprun adja-
cent to the Rowans. The lucky man belongs
mostly to Sydneyside, is one of the old Hill-
Clark wool people, and also a crack gunshot,
I believe. Nan is a great favorite, and the
family is busy filing congratulations.
Percy Dean, secretary to Billy Hughes,
has not many minutes to spare from work ;
but he has found time to ascertain Ruth
Manning’s ideas on matrimony and persuade
her to say “Yes,” or words to that effect.
Cyril Steele, the only surviving son of a
Kew family which has given four sons to the
war, is to marry Kathleen Fitzgerald.
After a picturesque wedding in Colombo,
Mrs. Rawson (who left here some weeks
ago as Nell Anderson) is on her way home
again, while her husband has gone on to
“somewhere.”
The Norman Bayles bride will show some
of her wonderful trousseau at the Sydney
races. The pair have rented a furnished nest
in Lansell-road, Toorak, and take up their
quarters there just before Caulfield and
Flemington Cup meetings.
A breathless note from a Goth: —
To my mind, dear, you missed the sweetest thing
about Melba’s farewell at Spencer-street station the
other day, which was the spectacle of serried rows
of Con. girls, dressed in accordance with the regula-
tions, lifting up their voices in a great song of
mourning and adulation, while frantic little Fritz
Hart, his hair tossing in the gale, violently con-
ducted the affair, prancing on the platform with
marvellous agility, the while our Nellie, her head
projecting from the train, dripped copious tears
upon the heedless asphalt, and, throwing a final fist-
ful of kisses to her admirers, smote an amazed China-
man standing too near so violently on the nose that
he bled, and added to the chorus a plaintive “Wha’
for?”
Violet Thompson, daughter of a Westra-
lian mining man, is a Melba pupil who has
done well recently in opera work. Unfor-
tunately, the young person overtaxed her
strength and is now convalescing from a
nervous breakdown.
Appears that Fritz Hart is only inter-
ested in an abstract way in the Saturday
Pops run by baritone Fred Collier. Collier
is the only man who is financially inter-
ested. By the way, the Pops are the success
they deserve to be. They offer a 2s. and Is.
programme of really good music.
Middle Brighton has a musical composer
who is also a portrait painter. “Thy Wan-
derer,” a serenade, is the first of her three
songs to be published by Miss Emily
Thomas; but “The Angel of Mons” and
“Sweet Little Maid of My Heart” are in the
press.
The G.-G. has bought a fine bit of color
by Mclnnes from the show of the three A’s
One of the numerous Officer cousins has
planked down 20 guineas for an exquisite
little pastel by Florence Rodway exhihit-pU
in the A.A.A. Exhibition. The subject is a
dainty Columbine making her curtain bow.
There is a wonderful study of a prettv
back at one of the picture shows. The
anonymous model proves to have been
pianist Doris Madden, a niece of the Wax
ellency. The John Madden girls have
always been renowned for their dimples
which were religiously massaged, and the
characteristic beauty seems to extend to
other branches of the family.
Actor George Bryant’s daughter Beryl »ets
her first chance on the stage (apart from i
brief appearance in vaudeville with her dail
some years ago) in “Outcast,” at the Royal
She is a dark, good-looking girl who knows
how to wear clothes, so naturally the house
sympathises with Charles Waldron when she
throws him over.
Actor lan Maclaren is quite a faniily man
As well as the dark-eyed aesthetic daughter
who is here in Melbourne there are five
other girls. They live on a Canadian farm
with Mrs Maclaren.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Hroii
....nijiiiiiiiimiiiilll it J '.V ill
'inlmuM 11,1,,,,1,11111.1 ill,?
,.,i,..i uii-. mi,. ... .ii n 1111 nil IM lll'llt)||),i>v^!^i , 111 111 I Mil n Hiii i ihi ii in i nun
i( I! 11 1TTT ' ■' tvsv 1 '
'Si
r»,
llltlHlillllMHlH iflllllilli MJIHIImI
urn ii kii
i ill 111 Mill
lIVIKI II II I If*
rnMitu
lUJjijiiiumuiiiuiitiuiuuaiUiuiiiitiiJuiiumiiiuuuiiimuiuuiuiuuiujuiujiJiiiiLiaijiujujJujjimjJLLUiiiuujJuuiuituiiuu
iniiliiiJUiiiiiiiLiiiuuiJtiJttiiJiiuiiiimjuujuiiuiiJtiiumuiJUiuiiiUjmimjtiiiuiitiiuuuiLtuiLiiitiuiJiuimumiiiiiummjuiJJiJuij'
St
1
i
&
I
1
UF
I
1
1
I
22
Ml
/
d
ii
m
X
ffi
2
IP
a
i
w
a
i
7
SS
m
1
7niuiWTff^^^WfTTTT?Tn^ , TOTrTTOrTTTtTT^^WTTrTTTWWr^m7WTI^nHWr^ffTWT^^WfffnTTTTTTT^^^n , nTfn7^^TTrr ,^fTn
ii i ii hi urn
iiiii i ini mm
11 11 11 11 11 T JTTII n n IU ITrTTnTTTTTTTTTTTTITTTTTT I (TT [ I ITTTT HIT] [ 1 1
%
% nr l,v ji
r,
*s*7
n
ks^s*»r»
<S3i
Man never wen, far without a good reputation, and neither does Whisky The reputation
f Dewa?; has for its foundation long years of irresistible quality, constant and peerless, bringing the glortou,
gifts of splendid health to the body and rare contentment to the mind.


THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. .. .. £1,500,000
Subscribed Capital (50,000 £lO Shares) .. .. .. .. 500,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £400,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits .. .. .. 58,182
Reserve Inability of Proprietors .. .. .. 540,000
Total Capital and Reserves .. .. .. .. .. £098,182
Directors:
WILLIAM DIXSON, Chairman.
Hon. Sir ALBERT J. GOULD, K.B.
Hon. THOS. WADDELL, M.L.C.
Auditors: JOHN WAUGH, T. B. FRITH.
Chief Inspector: WM. CLARKE.
Accountant: J. E. MACKINTOSH.
A. A. C. COCKS, M.L.A.
H. C. L. ANDERSON, M.A.
Acting General Manager: J. S. MARKS.
Secretary; R. T. MOODIE.
Solicitors -• Messrs. LEIBIUS, BLACK & WAY
HEAD OFFICE: 166 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Brandies and Agencies in New South Wales. Agents in New Zealand and Fiji: The Bank of New
Zealand : Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia: The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.;
Queensland: The Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Drafts drawn on and cable remittances made direct to Foreign Places. Letters of Credit issued,
negotiable throughout the world. Foreign Bills neigotiated and collected. Drafts issued on San
Francisco and New York in dollars or sterling.
Lk
AMSIHAV
Al®"
390 MM
The'TOP NOTCH'scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“303” : She was a pretty brown lady, fas-
cinating, witty, of pliable virtue, and the despair of
the Tongan Free Church. It was just after the
deportation, per British man-o’-war, of the Rev. Shir-
lev Baker, self-appointed head of the church, Prime
Minister, Grand Inquisitor and Lord High Execu-
tioner. A great institution was the bolotu, or public
confession of sin, which was preceded by much
“niminy” (hymn singing) and prayers until the right
pitch of frenzy was reached. Then the fun began.
Mary Butako had been attending the bolotu pretty
regularly, and her presence raised a strange feeling
of unrest among the congregation. One night, after
a very fatiguing heat, and many “niminies,” hysteria
was in the air. As the crowd knelt in prayer one
alone remained standing, sobbing, her face buried in
her hands. As the brethren slowly raised their heads
and saw that Mary Butako was going to “tell her
soul” they quaked with fear and brown faces grew
ashen. Each whited sepulchre measured with his
eye the distance to the nearest exit and reached for
his running shoes; and when Mary gave one “experi-
ence,” and declared her firm intention to go through
the lot, there was a shriek from the women as the
sinners burst through the doorway of the sanctuary
and beat all records. That bolotu was long remem-
bered in Tonga, and many a home was short of a
saintly brown brother. Mary confided to me that
she never had such a night’s sport in her life.
“MohoviP’ (from India) : “Montalex,’*
discussing potent snake venoms, places that of the
hamadryad first and cobra second. There are two
worse. The venom of one of the sea-snakes (Enhy-
drina valakadyn ) is 10 times more potent than that
of the cobra. Then common krait (Bungarus cceru-
leus), which “M.” places third, is seven times more
deadly. Then I place hamadryad or king cobra,
cobra and Russel’s viper, in that order. What about
the mamba and puff-adder of Africa?
* * * *
“Gunner B.”: The other day after the
“babbling brook” had sounded the dinner-gong—an
empty 18-pounder cartridge-case—and when the boys
were gathered round the festive “stoo” dixie, I took
notice of the crockery and cutlery. Two blokes ate
from jam-tins and dug in with strips of wood.
Another sipped his tea from a pork-and-beans tin.
One man from Ironbark had a plate, but having left
the silver at home he had to bog in with his hands.
But the break-up arrived late and received his issue
on the Society page of The Bulletin.
* * * *
“Kassi-Kassi”; Following up the gloomy
remarks of “Bad Australian” on funerals in way-
back S. America, easily the most picturesque in the
world are at Venice. When you die there, the
funeral gondola comes to your door, gliding down
the green water of the street with the gondolas of
all the mourners soundlessly slipping along behind.
It is a very large gondola, black, with a black
velvet pall; high on the bow there is an immense
white angel standing with folded wings, and at the
stern rises a plain white cross as tall as a man.
Borne on this poetical bier, you are conveyed to a
lovely island out in the green lagoons, and left
there among the waves and winds and flowers. Often
it’s enough to make you want to die.
QUIET-CORNER CONFIDENCES.
PECK: “You ought to hear my wife talk.
She never stops talking!”
SNIFF : “She’s got to listen some of the time,
Peck, or my wife wouldn’t he with her
such a lot!”
THE WRONG HOUSE.
TRAMP: “Kind lady, I ain’t ’ad any food fer two days” ( suddenly aware of policeman’s
helmet in the passage ) “an’ I don’t leant none now.”
“H. 1.0.” : For sheer fighting devilment the
harmless-looking quail about takes the biscuit. In
the Philippines and among the Bedouin tribes of the
Mediterranean littoral the small fowl which costs so
much on toast is even more expensive to his backers
if he happens to be the wrong ’un. The Bedouin,
who makes much money by quail netting, regularly
trains and backs his fancy. The birds are carried
about in little crates and carefully fed, and when
pitted fight to a finish. The natives of the Gilbert
and Ellice groups keep and train quantities of man-
o'war hawks or frigate-birds. These tremendous
fliers are taken from island to island in canoes and
liberated like homing pigeons. They fly quite freely
about the villages and are as amenable to discipline
as the wives and other live stock of those localities.
The only other place where I have seen this feathered
racer kept is South-eastern Papua. There he is a
sacred totem and does nothing much except sit on
perches specially prepared for him and eat anything
that’s going, allee same missionary.
* * * *
“Captain”: For a succession of thrills let
a man take a trip on a fast-flowing river aboard a
native dug-out catamaran, showing only a few inches
of freeboard and loaded with nigs and kai-kai (food).
I once travelled dowm the Markham River, New
Guinea, to the coast in such a craft, steered with
paddles by two boys for’ard and two aft. One sits
on the rough wood deck amidships, clad only in
shirt and pants, and ready for an unsolicited swim in
the mud-colored stream at any moment. The river is
thickly studded with huge logs, most of them indicated
only by the water twisting and breaking round
them, so that what’s waiting around the next curve
is always a gamble. As she shoots round a bend
‘‘Deewy, deewy!” yell the paddlers, the passengers
joining in the uproar, as straight in the fairway and
dead ahead appears a snag. Then the paddlers put
in some solid work. In that pace of water there’s
no going astern; it’s full ahead from start to finish.
There’s also something hair-raising at the river-mouth,
"’here the stream rushes to meet the ocean. The
leaping mass of turbulent waters is a sight to see—
from a safe distance. Go through it and you’ll not
forget the experience. Your craft rushes into the
mix-up and in an instant is buffeted about like a
cork, one set of niggers baling for very life and
adding their yells to those of the paddle-boys, who
from start to finish go all out. Then suddenly all
hands join in a roar of triumph and next instant the
vessel is through and riding at ease on the swell.
“Pick” : A recent Bulletin reference to
the long-ago wreck of the steamer Mimosa at Bunga
Head, South Coast (N.S.W.), recalls the doings of
Billy ——■, a prince among cattle-duffers in the days
when cattle-duffing on the Monaro stations was a
primary industry. It was to employ counsel for
Billy’s defence that his parents—the aged couple who
were drowned in the wreck —were journeying with a
bagful of sovereigns to Sydney. The charge the son
THE DESTINATION.
CHAUFFEUR : “You said. ‘Drive like the
Devil,’ didn’t you, sir?”
OWNER: "Well!”
CHAUFFEUR : “This is Hell.”
had to answer on that occasion was stealing a mob
of cattle from Gunningrah and sewing brands into
their hides with twine. William’s luck stuck to him
at the trial and he was acquitted, chiefly on t e
evidence as to character tendered by James
Graham, a squatter and M.L.A., for whom Billy an
Billy’s old man had been shepherding. Billiam the n
hastened home, and in gratitude lifted a few catt e
off Graham's station before the boss returned.
(Continued on page 24.)
CONLON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For the moment’s sin and the squandered hour the
children of men pay toll,
That faith and honor be sacred things as long as
the world shall roll;
And Conlon rides with a drooping head and a
shadow across his soul.
The cattle were camped where the mulga scrub
encircled a scalded plain ;
For days they had ploughed through the squelching
mud and slept in the soaking rain,
And Conlon, riding his rounds that night, was
bitter of heart and brain.
They had chivvied and flogged the flagging beasts
till their arms and their throats were sore,
With a score of half-bogged cows in the rear and
a half-bogged cart before ;
They had sweated and crawled their ten-mile stretch
each day for a week or more.
Forcing the mob through the swollen creeks and on
through the dripping scrub,
Sodden and chill were their nightly camps and
soggy their rain-soaked grub,
With never a chance of a change of clothes or a
nip at a wayside pub.
A deadly loathing of camp and track was heavy in
man and beast,
And daily the tempers of both were crossed and the
number of feuds increased,
But the fights of the bullocks with broken horns were
the quarrels that mattered least.
For Conlon, riding his rounds that night, was filled
with a sullen hate ;
A blow is clean and its force is spent when the
passions of men abate,
But a word can have evil and poisoned barbs when
it passes from mate to mate.
The cattle slept in a darkened mass on the spongy
and sodden ground,
And save for the hiss of the falling rain there was
hardly a stir or sound ;
And Conlon, numbed with the cold and wet, kept
prodding his horse around.
He heaped the wood on the smouldering fires and
poked at the sulky flame;
The rest slept snug in their canvas tent like children
tired in a game,
For they knew that Conlon was keeping watch and
the mob was broken and tame.
And Conlon’s mate slept soundest of all with his
saddle beneath his head ;
A clean-built boy from the Barwon flats his passion
was quickly sped,
And since the days when his cheeks had down he
had followed where Conlon led.
Now honor and trust are goodly things, and the
records of sea and land
Show spirit fighting its war with flesh and wresting
the upper hand,
That the faith of men shall be firmly based as long
as the world shall stand.
But the drowsy brain and the dropping lid feel
softly the snares of sin,
And the man at the wheel and the man on watch
have many a fight to win,
For a siren stands at the Gates of Horn to welcome
the weakling in.
Was it the snap of a broken twig or the clang of a
sudden bell?
A dozing man on a stumbling horse awoke with a
nightmare yell,
For the mob had shot through the burnt-out fires
and were racing like fiends from Hell.
There was crashing of timber and broken horns,
and the roar of an angry gale,
And Conlon rode with a loosened rein like a drunken
man at a rail,
With the mist of a broken sleep on his brain and a
face that was deathly pale.
The spears of mulga tore at his flesh, but never
slackened his speed,
And the torrent of terror roared at his right like a
river no rocks impede,
With a trail of crippled cows in the wake and a
maddened steer in the lead.
They found him ringing the broken mob on the
banks of a swollen creek,
There were tangled masses of moving horns as the
strong pressed over the weak,
And they brought them home through the ghostly
dawn, but none had the heart to speak.
For something lay in the churned-up mud where the
cattle had left their mark,
Trampled and bruised by a hundred hoofs in a
litter of leaves and bark —•
It was Conlon’s mate who had wakened first and had
rushed out into the dark!
For the moment’s sin or the squandered hour the
children of men pay toll
That faith and honor be sacred things as long as the
world shall roll;
And Conlon rides with a drooping head and a
shadow across his soul.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


The Best Present for a Soldier.
MILITARY FITALL
AdiustableTfoilet Kit
m
5/11 10/6 2 If-
A Travelling Kit in which you can use your own toilet
articles, so adjustable that it will hold just what you
desire to carry, irrespective of shape or size.
Note the adjustable spaces, made possible by movable
straps, which can be formed into any-size loops and
permit changes to be made at any time with ease.
Fitalls will hold brushes, combs, mirror and complete
shaving outfit which you may already possess, and
permit the addition of any new fittings or favorite toilet
articles in original packages to suit your individual
requirements, and changes can be easily made whenever
desired.
Three large pockets afford ample additional space for
wash-cloth, mirror and the various extras which usually
have to be carried in different packages.
Fitall kits are featherweight, practically indestructible,
and fold compactly. They are made in various sizes and
in a variety of attractive styles of waterproofed fabrics
and flexible leather, indispensable to travellers and ideal
for a soldier’s gift. Fitted or without fittings. Prices
quoted do not include fittings.
IFe Pay the Carriage.
David Jones Limited
Opposite G.P.O. SYDNEY
OM T/1E SAME DAY
TMEY ARE H^DE
.»
PS*
41
sA
—•-
It *
• ••'•" ’ >•
'
■•*«**%
I w
lg|L
v\
m
j
K^'.r
No Higher-grade Choco-j
lates produced
anywhere.
We are the actual manufac-
turers, and we distribute our
Chocolates direct. It is, there-
fore, impossible to buy stale
“Hillier” Chocolates.
Guaranteed under the Pure
Food Act, Serial 1567.
Packed only in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/-, 0/6,
10/6, 15/-, 25/-
Post free to any address in Aus-
*-aha.
162 Pitt St
SYDNEY.
Judhpore Riding Trousers, Breeches,
Working Trousers, etc.
Leather Tweed Work-
ing Trousers. —in DARK-
GREY effects. Holeproof and
practically indestructible.
Made with Denim pockets;
Riveted Buttons, and non-split-
ting seat seam. Sizes 3 to 7.
Price 13/6.
Cross sizes and Stockman’s
Cut for Riding, 15/6.
Australian Tweed
Trousers. Splendidly
tailored in hard-wearing
Medium Grey All-Wool Tweeds.
Made with side-pockets; cuff
bottoms. Sizes 3 to 7.
12/6, 13/6, 15/6.
C2l. —Judhpore Riding
Trousers. Ready-to-wear.
In hard-wearing Garbinette of
dark Stone shade. Exact in
style to illustration with Fob
and Cross Pockets. Belt loops
at sides. This popular style
combines the design of Riding
Breeches and Trousers—-thus
dispensing with the wearing
of Leggings. Sizes 3to 7.
15/6.
Riding Breeches. —
Laced at knees; self-strapped.
In dark Stone-colored Garbi-
nette. Sizes 3 to 7. 15 6
y
wL
: 4m
C2O
C2I
C2O. —Riding Breeches —Tailored
Khaki Military Drill Cord or Canton Mole,
(Self -strapped, 5/- extra ; Buckskin-strapped,
to Order. In Khaki Military Drill, 21/-;
27/6; Whipcord, 50/-; Bedford Cord, r»0/-
13/6 extra).
021 .Tndhnores Tailored to Order. —In Khaki Drill, 21/-; Canton Moleskin,
27/6- Mole o! Khaki Drill Cord, 27/6; West of England Saddle Tweed and White or Cream
Bedford Cord, 45/- (Self-strapped, 5/- extra; Buckskin-strapped, 13/6 extra).
Ti*nn«Ai'o Tailored to Order. In Khaki Drill, 15/6; Khaki Drill Cord,
?8/6; g Canton Mole, 21/-; Twist Tweeds, 37/6; Bedford Cord, 40/- (Self-strapped, 5/-
extra; Buckskin-strapped, 13/6 extra).
Ask for FREE SAMPLES, TAPE & CHART.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
T»*
Leviathan
MELBOURNE.
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-each
BRITISH-MADE
Fcolumbia^
Records hA
12=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/- each
Some Excellent Columbia Records.
12-inch DOUBLE-SIDED. PRICE, 6/- each.
J Love’s Garden of Hoses Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
1.1120 j q j?lovver Divine
T HOI » VValt
- tenor.
Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
T - | Blow* Blow, Thou Winter Wind ■•••••• - GervaSe ® lWeS ’
]LlO;>5 ( (0) Now Sleeps the Crimson Petal (b) Love s Philosophy. >* E1 ”- es tenor .
L 1074 5 Cuckoo Song ’
, , M 8::::::::::::::::::::::::: Biw.*:
ESS.®":::::::: k«,w
I When the Swallows Homeward Fly » » ”
10-inch DOUBLE-SIDED. PRICE, 4/3 each.
So Fare Thee Well, from “Doris” Maurice D Oisly, tenor.
:::::::::::::::::::: d™,, a*.
Those Azure, Azure Eyes ”
12-inch DOUBLE-SIDED. PRICE, 0/- each.
I) 1335
D 1338
J Meditation, from
1.101/J | Legende, Op. 17
Thais” Albert Sammons, violin.
Albert Sammons, violin.
“B” Minor, for Piano and Orchestra Albert Sammons.
1 With Orchestra
} conducted by
J Sir Henry J. Wood.
G” Minor London String Quartet.
nma S Sarabanda
LlOlB ) Bagatelle
[ Elgar Concerto in
LlO7l -j (a) Allegretto
[(b) Andante
j (c) Lento
L 1073 i (fi) Allegro-molto
i Andante, from Quartette in
M “*l *** «•**
“*“!» “i: i:::::::: »*«<*-»«*•
L 1056 | ( a ) Allegro, (b) Adagio-Allegro
[ Beethoven Quartette in “G.” Or
LlO6B ) Scherzo, (d) Allegro-molto - • , _ .
GRAND OPERA IN ENGLISH —12-inch Double-Sulefl, 6/- each.
t KTrftTFTTO' Onartette. “Fairest Daughter of the Graces” (Verdi)
KIGOLETTO. E(mh ae | g> Maurice D’Oisly, Frederic Austin.
I FAUST: Trio (Prison Scene), “Holy Angels in Heaven Blest ... (Gounod)
[ ‘ Rosina Buckman, Maurice D Oisly, Frederick Ranalov.
10-inch DOUBLE-SIDED, 4/3 each.
( FAUST: Duel Trio, “O Thou Who Rulest Might” ................ v Gounod)
I Frederick Blarney, Frederic Austin, Frederick Ranalow.
I MARITANA: “Turn On, Old Time” • (W. V. M allace)
l Edith Clegg, Maurice D’Oisly, Frederick Ranalow.
12-inch DOUBLE-SIDED. PRICE, 0/- each,
f Humoreske (Dvorak) Kathleen Parlow, violin.
f SSSni".^.v.v.v.v.v/."::::::*.::: p.w,
\ Liebesfreud (Kreisler) ” ”
L 1025
LlOBl •
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Wehley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


laitin s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladie: recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
MEGGITT’S
LINSEED OILMEN
TO
/AEG
PARU
m
i'
A
- v\
' \V ✓
-c'W
/"/?■
■J
Calves Thrive on MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL
TESTIMONY OF SATISFIED FARMERS.
excellent
SERIES No. 4.
Mr. G. OOUZENS, Kangaroo Valiev -writes • “T
for calves—in fact, for all classes of stock ” n,K> * s P to ° highly of your Linseed Meal. It is
Mi. X. J, LIXDSAY, AVauchope savs • “T iin,. , .
no danger of scours when usino-’ the meal ‘t? I° UV meal for ; feeding poddy calves. There is absolutely
healthy condition. Anyone with ~ , le ‘\. alten quickly ajiid their coats take on a shiny and show a
canes or breeding sows should ‘not be without it.”
AboSTlb. T ?er^f®r C d^ V DL ) VI n H MEGGITTS UNSEED MEAL.
s *° \e Linseed in bailing water and add to skim milk.
Stores, nr full ,
■ e lns eed in boiling water and add to skim milk.
From all Stores, or full particulars fm« .
Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.. Melbourne"w!^ 0 " Ade,aitle 5 R S Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane;
and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co.. N z "r &C ° ’ ' F * Herita & e &Co ’ LaunceS
MEGGITT LTD.,
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
26 King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Yokwe Yuk”: Toddy, the sap ob-
tained by cutting a thin slice morning and evening
from an unopened -spathe of the cocoanut tree, is
sweet and sparkling when fresh, but it has an un-
pleasant odor. A good spatlie should give at least a
pint of toddy both morning and evening. It rapidly
ferments, and if tightly corked in a bottle will blow
the obstacle out in about 12 hours, the -contents fol-.
lowing in a column several feet high. Failing to
expel the cork, in about 24 hours the bottle will
burst. If allowed to ferment in a partly-closed
vessel for over a day the juice becomes intoxicat-
ing. In about four days alcoholic fermentation
ceases, and the- resultant is an evil-smelling, nauseat-
ing booze that only a kanaka or a very thirsty dead-
beat can tackle. Still, I once knew an American who
used to fortify his sour toddy by steeping tobacco in
it, and then mixing it with Florida water and pain-
killer, to give it some bite, so he said. If not inter-
fered with, the sour toddy within a few weeks loses
its alcohol by acetous fermentation and becomes good,
clear vinegar. Before this takes place, and when the
alcoholic fermentation is at its height, the juice is not
much stronger than beer, although people who love
exaggeration tell weird stories of its potency. Some
year-; :go I made a still with which I obtained several
gallons of spirit from sour toddy. My still would
hold 20 beer bottles of toddy at one time, and when
it was properly fermented I obtained by double dis-
tillation about two and a half bottles of a clear,
amber-colored spirit with a fine odor. It burnt in
my lamp without smoke or residue. By re-distilling
two and a half bottles of this spirit I got a little
more than two bottles of clear water-white spirit. I
did not sample it, for mine is tea; but a man who
did declared it was the real creature.
“Melos” : Early in 1905 millions of mice
swept over Western Queensland and invaded the
central districts of South Aus. The situation looked
gloomy till a strange little animal came along and
completely wiped out the rodents. This skilful
mouser, a member of the marsupial family, was
called modoe-koord by the blacks, and had not until
then come in contact with Europeans. He was
described as being grey, approximately 21 in. high,
sin. in length, having a fox-like head, with large,
black, luminous eyes; tail about 4in., one half round
and covered with grey fur, the other flat and jet
black. In the pouch of the mothers from two to five
young were found.
* * * *
“Quorn” : They are particular people up
about Quorn (S.A.). On a station that way a
blackboy was sent to a spring for a load of water.
He forgot to take the bucket, but was not to be
beaten by a trifle: he pulled off his pants, tied the
leg's good and tight, and filled the water-cart that
way. The folks at home didn’t find out how he
got the water till they had used some for tea, and
then they wasted a lot of perfectly good indignation
ami fluid.
FOUND MONEY.
VISITOR: “And what would the price of that one be?”
PICTURE-DEALER: “That is a rather good piece of work. The value is 100 guineas.”
VISITOR: “A hundred guineas! Good gracious! Why, my daughter paints.”
THE ADVANTAGES OF LEARNING.
MISTRESS: “ Look here, Wary, see how shockingly you have dusted this table! Why, I can
write my name on it!”
MARY: “That shows the benefit of education,doesn't it, mum? I couldn't.”
“Xym” : Following the plague of mice in
the Nanneella irrigation areas, near Rochester (Vie.),
a cat plague is now occasioning shouts of joy. They
are in scores haunting the haystacks, outhouses and
rabbit-warrens that dot the landscape of the channel
country, awaiting the awakening of the mice hibernat-
ing in nests underground. The pussies are of all colors,
shapes and sizes, toms being conspicuously numer-
ous; but where they came from is as mysterious as
the origin of the mouse visitation.
“Pick”: The olive-backed, yellow-breasted
native canary is a diminutive N. S. Wales warbler
that makes three migrations during the year. In
the winter he shelters among the gums that fringe
the western rivers, or in the pines bordering the
Old-man Plains. In Spring he goes east beyond the
mountains, and among the brushwood of the coastal
jungles he builds nests of rough bark, which, sus-
pended from twigs, are a marvel of deception, and
require the closest scrutiny to be distinguishable
from an ordinary knot of forest refuse and cobweb.
Each has a strip of bark hanging below, to which
the parent bird clings when feeding the family in-
doors. When the broods have gone through their
course at the flying school and summer has arrived
the clans are mustered again, and the wattle groves
of the southern tablelands are then enlivened by
their warblings, until the cooler times of late
autumn turn inclination to the sunset homes once
more.
* * * *
"Duck Drover”: A fresh plague for
farmers has developed itself in South Aus.,. where
the descendants of domestic pigeons gone Wild are
eating seed-wheat as quickly as it is sown. Their
breeding-grounds are in steep cliffs along the coast
northwards from Ncrmanville, where they are fairly
safe from both foxes and guns. One enraged farmer
swears that he cursed from three to four hundred of
them on his newly-sown paddocks.
* * * *
“Private Room”: “Pick” (B. 6/9/T7)
challenges my statement that manna is found under
any species of gum-trees. Until he explains the
meaning of “ribbon-gum”— a classification I have
never heard of—l can’t put up the stake. If by
ribbon-gum is meant a eucalypt from which bark
peels in long ribbon-like strips let me remind “Pick”
that most of our gums have that habit.
“Ploughman” : I was doin’ a bit of fencin’
on the Skewball-road, and about 11 one day come one
o them American waggons, with two bays at the pole,
dm- be a bit of a girl about 21, I should say, with
snappy, dark eyes and brown hair blowin’ about.
She pulls up, ’n’ sez she: “Would you please give
Edcbe a drink?” “I ain’t got a bucket,” I sez.
‘The pannikin will do,” she sez. “This is Eddie.”
Eddie was the bloke alongside of her, 6ft. of bush-
nred Australian, who grinned like a sheep when I
handed the drink up to them. It was near 12 when
1 spots a bloke cornin’ down the hill on a lanky
g>ey. He yanked her up on her crupper aside me,
," r , s ® z he: “Seen a Topemenf pass this wav?’’
, ~S Olt ' 1 sez ‘ lle describes the little lady
n Eddie, and he gets up in his stirrups, V roars
about his family troubles. “Break!n’ into a man’s
home, be sez. “Stealin’ away his only child,” sez
e. \Y ait till I get mv hands on ’em.' By* G I’ll
each someone! I’ll head ’em off at Pinetop,’ V
then we’ll see whether respectable homes ,
rifled ’n’ robbed. We’ll see if decent people’s chiU be
are to be safe in their beds. We’ll see” se , Lren
hits his mare a sleep, ’n’ is off in a • blither
I gets down to me work. It’s maybe three J*
there cornea the sound of hoofs > n ’ the belt - > ■
horses. It’s the American waggon V the tJ'I 1V
’n’ they’re lathered with sweat. The wronged
is drivin’, ’n’ his lank grey mare is towin’ be h If
But there ain’t no sign of the little girl o-J'
’longside the ole man, dingin’ to the seat fer lif! "
Eddie, pale ez death, ’n’ cowed out iv half his
After all, you see, it was the lad the ole
was after; it was the natty litle gi,-i with "If
twinklin’ eyes what was the rifler of homes ’n’ th
scoundrel ’n’ kidnapper, and I’m wonderin’ what
happened when father overhauled the ’lopement T
gets a fairly-good hidea next mornin’. Up com *
another trap from Pinetop. The brown m *
drivin’, she’s got one hand in a sling V one Mat-
eye, but there’s a lot of determination in the othe
She's goin’ to get her own back all right. Therms
a feller in a uniform alongside her. A policeman?
Np. A parson!
* * *
*
“Leo Lear”: The laughing-jack that
“E.H,” (B. 16/8/17) came across in W.A. is most
likely the fawn-breasted kingfisher, a western form
of the Leach kingfisher. These two and our common
kookaburra are Australia’s three giant kingfishers
Kooka is the eastern and S.E. representative and is
the largest of all. Leach, who takes up the running
all over the North, has a striped head and carries a
deal of blue on wing and tail. Moreover, the gent
has a blue tail and the lady a red one. An ant-
mound (tree variety) is selected for the nest in pre-
ference to any other place. The fawn-breasted coot
inhabits the north and the western coast. He is
smaller than Leach, but otherwise similar.
“Lou” : Near Prahran (Vic.) railway
station I primed the old-man grape-vine. Two of
the three main branches measured 27ft. each and
the other 'lBft. They were as thick as a man's
arm, while the trunk was as round as the thickest
part of a ballet-girl’s best asset. They told me
that the weed bore a good crop last year.
* * * *
J. H. Maiden, the Ma State’s botanist, re-
cently tabulated the noxious-weed returns from
N.S.W. shires and municipalities. The result showed
the 20 worst-hated to be: Bathurst burr, black-
berry, star thistle, Noogoora burr, sweet briar, black
thistle, Paterson’s curse, saffron thistle, Cape weed,
lantana, Mexican poppy, water hyacinth, false castor-
oil plant, stinkwort, tree tobacco, St. John’s wort,
ink plant, Narrawa burr, castor-oil plant, cockspur.
There is but one “native” in that bunch—the Nar-
rawa burr —and it got a place in only 12 returns,
while Bathurst burr was in 192. The absence of
the pricldv-pear from the score is a cheery indication
that the pest is yielding to tire acid and burning
treatment; and the. majority of those in the curse
list would quickly disappear before a general attack.
* * * *
“Bion” : What do you think of this for a
sample of the destruction caused by the recent mouse
plague at Marnoo (Vic.) ? One stack of hay, 17
yards long, six wide and 18ft. to the eaves, was
cut up. We got seven loads of good hay out of it.
And this was the least-damaged stack on the place!
* # * #
“C.J.W.” : At Narrandera (N.S.W.) rail-
way station some youngsters caught and killed a
few mice and strung four or five of them together
on a string. A kookaburra saw that dinner was
ready and swallowed the lot; but when the mice
had reached their long home a couple of yards of
String remained and he flew off with it trailing from
his beak. He alighted on the telegraph-wires to
think it over and a helpful puff of wind took the
loose end and tangled it round a wire. Presently
the wise old bird gave a pull, and winged away in
triumph, leaving mice and string dangling.
HUNTING FOR A TITLE.
VISITOR: “Well, call it Home, Sweet
Home.’ ”
ARTIST : “ Home, Sweet Home'? Why
should I call it 'Home, Sweet Home?"
VISITOR : “ There's no place like it in the
bl anky world!”


* V'm •? jh* \ y*
/
m
'm:-
ss
) "
A
t
5fP
m\
n
•N
\
IISS
tm
v?:
mm
%
■
m
-
a?
M
«
p*
I
\
.
»l
#few*
■
‘
SBR
m
*
nf;-
fMm
■
#SftBBfiB
-
w.


There is Nothing Better than
Hearn E’s
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
\\JTi
IW \
X*'.
X
3&
?*£?
m
/
iii
ggg
II
X&s**-
X
ic KlWCtlgy- l^'TH-
-
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
if not obtainable locall v
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
“HEARNE’S”
“Masetto” : Wallace wrote only three
operas worth knowing, and of these I make
oath that every Australian who likes music
has heard “Maritana,” Every. English opera
co. in these parts from 1856 to 1008 has
staged it, and amateurs have filled in the
gaps between professional visits. I think
the first Maritana in Australia was Mrs.
Guerin, who afterwards married Richard
Stewart and became the mother of Nellie
and Dick, jun. About 30 years ago the work
was sung in Italian by Simonson's co. Wal-
lace’s “Amber Witch” is said to be musically
superior to the oft-played “Maritana,” but
we know nothing of it. and I doubt if the
English theatres ever hear it now. The
other silent opera is “Lurline.” It contains
some lovely ballads and concerted music
which concert artists used to give ps, but
have put on the top shelf. Melbourne,
at any rate, has not heard this charming
work for 40 years. Here is a chance for
somebody. Perhaps Fritz Hart will oblige?
“Country Pod” : As a job for a returned
soldier, suggest the travelling picture-show.
Outfit: a covered-in waggonette, a pair of good
horses, a projecting machine, a small motor
and dynamo, a supply of decent films, and
accessories—the lot costing, say, £lOO. There
are very few of these shows on the roads, so
the field is open. For halls, the State
schools are the handiest, being district
centres and an easy day’s journey apart.
The rent is nominal. For advertising, small
handbills posted in advance to teachers to
be distributed to scholars. Estimating con-
servatively, such a concern would bring in
£0 a week net. I know of one man who in
the first 12 months was able to increase his
outfit to a four-in-hand, and in the next to
purchase a motor-van. Another showman
gives all his takings in excess of £2 ss. and
the rent to the patriotic fund of the school
in which he shows; and in eight months the
gifts totalled £BO.
“Jack Straw” : A very well-known charac-
ter in the old days was Dave Woolf, who
went to Bendigo in the early gold-rush with
four others. Dave earned his fiftli share by
keeping house. The party did not find their
El Dorado in Australia, but one of them,
David Belasco, afterwards David James,
won fame and fortune as an actor. He
created the part of the Butterman in “Our
Boys.” Ben Farjeon, the novelist, was also
one of the five. Willie Edouin was then a
little boy playing about the camp. The lights
are out for all five now. Woolf’s daughter,
living in Sydney, is “Madame Elizabeth,” de-
signer and maker of the black-and-white cos-
tumes worn in “Look Who’s Here.” She is
the wife of Simms Waller, conductor of the
Purple Band, and sister-in-law of Jack
Waller.
“Harrison O.”: “Row A” (B. 9/8/’l7)
is the latest to attack the J.C.W. people
for not staging olays by local authors. Get-
ting down to details, who are the Australian
playwrights whose work would be likely to
“prove a good investment” for the Firm?
In the six years since McMahon started his
Repertory Theatre the present seeker after
truth has seen every Australian play pro-
duced in Melbourne, besides reading a few
in manuscript, and he cannot recall one
with which the Williamson management
would have been likely to have scored a
success. Bert Bailey and Jules Grant have
made money with Australian plays, and good
luck to them ! But there is no reason for
supposing that even “On Our Selection,” pro-
duced at Her Majesty’s or the Royal at
J.C.W. prices, would have achieved similar
results. The firm has given us worse im-
ported dramas, but there are many varieties
of tripe, and what is meat to patrons of
the Princess’s may be poison to the habitue
of the Royal. A case in point is “The Story
of the Rosary.” Put on by the Firm at
the Royal, it was a dismal failure; taken
over by the Fullers and presented at popu-
lar prices at the Princess’s, it scored a seven
weeks’ run. I am as eager as anyone to
welcome the l.ig Australian play, but up to
now it hasn’t arrived. Meanwhile local
plays with even a gleam of merit (and some
without even that) can nearly always achieve
production on either the commeicia
repertory stage. Putting aside false ideas
of , g it is generally safe to assume
that the unacted play, like the unpublished
poem, deserves its obscurity.
Fred Storey, who is about the only nota-
ble surviving member of the Gaiety co. tha
included Fred Leslie and Nelhe Farren
when it visited Australia over 30 years a„o,
has been doing home service for J. pun i
the West of England. He still occasionally
takes to the stage to help a war charity.
“O K” • “Was Beatrice really witty ?’’
No man' knoweth. Taste in wit and
humor changes with the ages Even
were there a more modern bite in
Beatty’s comments and retorts they would
seem to be too long-winded for witti-
cisms in the present meaning of the term
It is quite certain that the professional wits
of Immortal William’s time— i.e., the Clowns
in his comedies—are dull-sounding fellows,
as a rule. Compared with them, Beatrice
is quite a sharp-tongued person. Vet.it is
fair to suppose that the Shakspearean funny
men were held witty in their day.
“I-listoricus” turns a yellowed page or two :
I remember another “Much Ado.” It was at the
old Victoria, in Pitt-street, Sydney (the site to-day of
McCathie’s), and Win. Creswick was Benedick and
Helen Ashton Beatrice. Bland Holt was Dogberry.
The very strong co. included W. G. Carey, H. N.
Douglas, B. N. Jones. Stuart Bolton, J. J. Bartlett
(Pistol in ltignold’s first production of “Henry
V ”), Myra Kembla and others. The season was
very’successful, and many rare plays were produced,
including “Virginias, “King Lear,” “Henry V HL,
“William Tell” and “A New Way to Pay Old
Debts.” Another performance of “Much Ado ’ was
at the Theatre Royal (Sam Lazar, lessee) not long
after it was built. Mrs. Scott Siddons was, of
course, Beatrice; Geo. D. Chaplin, Benedick; W. J.
Holloway, Don Pedro; Gerald Dillon, Don John;
\y j. Andrews, Dogberry; Harry Simmons, Verges;
J. P. West, Leonato; Harry Leston and T. C.
Mortyne, Conrade and Borachio ; Tilly Andrews, Hero ,
Myra Kembla, Margaret ; and Maggie Oliver, Ursula.
London is going it these war days. It
has latelv had “Damaged Goods.” "The
Three Daughters of M. Dupont,” “Ghosts
and “Rosmersholm,” and now it is being
treated to a stage version of Eleanor Glyn’s
“Three Weeks.” Most of the critics have
found the play a, great bore—a series of
amorous squirms op silken cushions and the
inevitable tiger skin, with a smile on the
face of the tiger. Two old Australian
acquaintances are in the cast: A. S.
Homewood, who will be remembered as the
hero of “The Morals of Marcus,” and
Jerrold liobertshaw. The latter plays the
royal bloke who was wedded to the tiger
lady, but did not come up to her ideal of a
Compleat Cnnoodler.
“Futsac” : We can expect something start-
ling if the Actors’ Assoc, is granted union
registration and follows it up with an appli-
cation for a wages board. But things will
lm more kookaburra when the salary of the
picture-actor is mentioned. The highest paid
to an actor tor an Australian film within
my knowledge is £7 per week on an engage-
ment lasting a month. Some of the others
have received a tenner down, and have
worked it off at odd times within six weeks.
Only one female that I know of has received
more than £25 for a job on a film, and she
took a share in the profits in lieu
Of wages. A producer can always
get hundreds of flappers on the nod
to fill minor parts, and in a recent comedy
a Macquarie-street medico offered a premium
to be allowed to appear as a comic lawyer !
The producer made no race of it.
The scenery which attracted so much
attention in the Bailey-Grant productions of
“Much Ado” and “Julius Caesar” was largely
the work of a young Australian, William
Howell. The artist, who is in his early
twenties, is about to enter for the Vic.
National Gallery’s travelling scholarship, but
will continue to devote his evenings to the
manufacture of bush homesteads and Roman
palaces for Bailey and Grant.
“C, Ockney”: Re the Taits’ latest play
offering, “The Henrietta” (B. 13/9/’l7). I
remember well an American piece with that
title being done in England with Lewis
Waller as the juvenile lead. But it wasn’t
by Victor Mapes. Its author was a “regu-
lar” dramatist by the name of Bronson
Howard, who had already scored two suc-
cesses in London witli “The Old Love and
the New” and “Brighton,” originally “Sara-
toga.”
“On the Spot” : Did “Geebving” go to see
the performance that he saw advertised in
a pub on the Queensland border for “Is.”?
Howard Vernon gave about three perform-
ances a week in that town for four months,
filling in the other nights at different settle-
ments. and during those months, night after
night, I saw the same faces in the audience.
I met people who had seen Vernon in his
prime and they told me that his work is
almost as strong to-day.
“Ibsenshaw” : Cables say that Francis
Neilson. the part-author of the Lew’s Wal-
ler drama, “The Butterfly on the Wheel,”
seen in Australia a while ago, has married
the widow of a wealthy ’Murkan pork-
packer. The bridegroom is a man of many
parts, not all theatrical. In addition to try-
ing his hand at acting and stage-manage-
ment, he has written novels and plays, and
has represented an English constituency in
Parliament. The canned-meat business" can
do with a man like that.
In “Julius Caesar,” at the King’s (Melb.),
in Act 3, Scene 2, Pindarus, standing on a
rock, describes the progress of the war to
Cassius. The description is worked up to
some heat, and Cassius betrays growing
excitement. Cries Pindarus :
Titinius is enclosed round about
With horsemen that make to him on the spur,
Yet he spurs on. . . .
When Pindarus had finished his version of
the contest, and was coming dolefully from
the rock on the third night of the perform-
ance, a hoarse, dissatisfied man in the
gallery inquired impatiently: “Well, who
won the race?”
FAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pauline Montressor Vannestart
(In private, Martha Jones)
Cooed soulfully to me of Art,
In low contralto tones.
At suppers she was strong on Fame,
And how she ached to Win a Name.
Pauline was merely “walking on”
In Act 2 with the crowd
Of show-girls. She had undergone
Injustice, she avowed.
She purred: “I ought to be a star,
With diamonds and a motor-car !
And then there dawned a joyful day
She trilled : ‘ My chance has come !
I’ve got a part, some words to say!
No long ",' I’ll be dumb !”
Ambition made her dear eyes shine -
Our luncheon cost me one-pound-nine.
Then for a fortnight Pauline dreamed ;
As we partook of teas,
She babbled mystic words, and seemed
Constrained and iTf at ease.
And if politely I complained,
“I've got to study!” she explained.
The fateful night came round at length,
And so did I—with flowers —•
To see Pauline reveal the strength
Of her dramatic powers.
I heard her stammer out her line:
I told her after ’twas divine!
She gushed to me next day: “My heart’s
Desire has been attained,
The paper says: ‘The minor parts
Were capably sustained!’”
Pauline’s still an attractive star—
She draws the beers in Reilly’s bar.
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The block of
Sydney city land on the S.W. corner of
George and Grosvenor streets —the latter in
its old days known as Queen Charlotte’s
Place —is at last to be utilised. The Union
S.S. Co. is putting up a building which will
run close to £150,000. The site originalUy
belonged to John Jamison, his town house
being close by. When the Knight opened
up .Taniison-street in 1831 he cut up portion
of the estate into building lots, the Grosvenor-
street corner being purchased by Sam Lyons,
an old colonist, who built thereon what were
said to be the largest auction-rooms in the
Southern Hemisphere. The date upon the
coping stone was 1833. When the life inter-
est of the late Sam Lyons, jun., fell in a
few years ago the property was disposed of,
and old Sam’s mart, for years used as a
sailors’ outfit store, was demolished.
* * * *
From Postmaster-General Webster: —
With reference to the paragraph by “Karaji” (B.
12/7/T7) regarding the practice of leaving a piece
of bark on-telegraph-poles before they are inspected
and passed, I have had inquiry made and the electri-
cal engineer reports that the reason portion of the
bark is left on the poles is to facilitate the testing
of the timber. Testing by tasting is not always
conclusive, and timber can be properly identified by
an inspection of the bark. The bark is removed
before the pole is erected, and the leaving of it on
the pole does not promote decay', in spite of what
“Karaji” sa.vs. The electrical engineer adds that it
has been ascertained that there is no portion of the
X. S. Wales North Coast line where the poles are
toppling over on account of decay', as “Karaji
alleged.
* * * »
Sly gas is just as expensive as sly grog in
Sydney now. Quoted police-court price for
both luxuries last week was £4O or six
months.
“The Wanderer” : The chilled weight of a
Tamwertli-Berkshire cross pig recently
trucked from Wingham to Sydney was
4671 b., and he brought the owmer £7 15s. 9d.
Not so many years since a fat bullock
wouldn’t bring that amount. I mention tins
grunter simply because a claimant for the
heavyweight champion belt for pork comes
from Tenterliold, where a Berkshire sow has
scaled 4601 b. dressed weight.
“Copy Boy”: The issue of promissory-
notes by the Strike Committee in N.
Wales and Victoria recalls the fact tha:
several times in Australia it has been neces-
sary to issue p.ns. in lieu of currency
There is a specimen dated Sydney, July - ■
1802, preserved in the London Kecoi
Office, which promises to pay “James Oran,
or bearer” the sum of £lOO 12 months at.ei
date. Traders’ promissory-notes were w'.
quently issued in Tasmania. One, preserve
in all its typographical erroneousness,
signed by Major Geils. and read : “No. lb
Ilobart Town, 24th April, 1522, I
to pay to Bearer the sum of One l° u
Selling, on Demand, for the Subsistane
the 73rd Regiment.” In Van Diemen s Lanu
there was an extensive circulation tor n _
issued by traders, and even to tins clay
“shin-plasters” of well-known firms a ,e
fairly common use out in the mulga. j
“Tim Fogarty, Jr.”: This is dink uni. A*
the hands employed in a large city «stat ■_
ment were tvalking out “in sympathy,
of them who had been there for neai -
years asked the suffering boss for the ‘
of three or four quid, “as the strike S
last some weeks.” ,
* * * ,
“Cina-tabu-cagi”: Australia’s
only beet-sugar concern. _ at Maura
finished up its microscopic efforts las •
and for once in its 20 years’ lifetime s
a working profit. The “season lasted son
four months ; 151.000 tons of beets (loe«
were mangled, and 1000 tons of - ‘. t
were won. The imported lankee -P
(£lOOO a year) left last year, and prese
manager Williams, bred on the
receives one-third of the sciew pi
the cute lank. # *
“Xorbell”: A casual reference to
Montez taking to her bed on .itn n/s/’IT)
steamer to dodge her creditors (.B. ov /
recalls that other resourceful lady t
attended by a sheriff’s officer just
vessel was casting off fromAustra ghe
debtor had heard of Lola s bm • . , t 0
excused herself for a moment and gus .
her cabin. The waiting l-nock?
picious. and after several ,fndressed
at the door, he entered to find lit nnCon-
and defiant in bed. He d 3 . >‘oh,
cerned, however, and remarked co( t t!'mckv
well! I must watch my prisoner « ]mly
there’s a second berth here . Anc eanitu-
proceeded to undress, also. The
la ted.
OUR WATER TAXES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There are bitter complaints that Vic. brown
coal won't burn unless kept for a long time, and
that in keeping it loses weight in a most remark-
able way.”
They squeeze into your butter pat
With an American device
A quantity of water that
Would much amaze you. In your rice
They press the aqua pura, too,
With some contrivance cute and new;
And with the gas for which you pay
You purchase water every day.
Your whisky’s watered, and your ink;
Tobacco’s damped in artful wise;
I’ve heard of watered silk, I think—
In ev’ry business enterprise
Your shrewd economies they mock
With quantities of watered stock.
Of water milk is made, and they
E’en damp your bread to make it weigh.
But here’s the limit righteous ire
To plant within the people’s soul—
We water buy to make the fire:
They’re selling quarts among the coal!
Free elements there are no more,
They’re all exploited for the store.
The rains that on the unjust rain
Are traded to the just for gain!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


mm
mm
i
»■ 'i .... ... ;
■
* f
; ,-;...... j
i ;,„ - - 5 -
mm
£
tmJR
. m *»§M- m* ’.
m
if
-I' *", 1
111
1
I:
A
* : s9L
1
■
-f
* i
fill
1 > *?. * -• •
- ?»
*- <• •. ■ • ■%’,» t i
, ■ .* j j& -
*4v; *«
«
.
•*.
: <? .
■
> ,~3h
If
is
.
•f
; : ■>, /
SS3Si
W% ‘!
4
gpjfw
iflsjig
jy
•ill!
’ '
ft
f
. m
m
sun
iSfxf \
il
Wf- f
■
.
/
• M
, . ■* , ■ „ . -?• ,*■
* ■
,
mm
* 3 f& ;
* tilfe ,r,Ki ffiiS. r . M V, .'.... • .■»:'. >i
v ' * ? f s>
v 4- S V,W' ' ’. '"
iSfl
Install a FAN
in your Home or Office
G E. ELECTRIC FANS are practical, inexpensive, and cost
little to operate. We stock various sizes and styles adjustable
to any angle or oscillating.
A G.E. ELECTRIC FAN is cheap insurance against the
discomforts of Summer. It brings comfort to the home, trade
to the store, and higher efficiency to the office.
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM, or WRITE US for particulars.
WENTWORTH A/ SYDNEY, CP OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS 5T MELBOURNE.
other agents
BRISBANE (Q ) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd. corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH ' (W.A.) : Chas. Atkin* & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street
ADELAIDE. (S.A.) : Unt>ehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS
NEW ZEALAND : The National Electrical Si Engineering Co., Ltd. l(
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA:' Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver Sc Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


w
V
U'l
UJ
- iiiii
[ < rj. *'
i , \ piii
|l'l,l'! V 111
;V'
MWM *\
&
: . ■ t=-
■ H
Ik
'^x
ip"" l f , i)ihini'
/1
r**,
T*
/ .1
~
* -\'rj£\ .1 '!
% 'i i
' "3KV "c\
~yj'i
' r\
•- v' aY'L
.O *,i '' iPihj|
f 'A'
V%.
( 11 •
\ - V, I'.-- /'
,’V\ * i * i v s~~ //. " /^ > jB
:p .- / ‘ l f
In
I
r \
V
I V
- y
‘’'l
•V-'
'
3
' -sap '*■ ■-
*s■ ilti M
>/•* p v*, i ",\
>^7 '[, )/
• I .V ti\ \l‘\ \
'iy . Bangp
vva ,
. W//' /''{/' *'
\ 1 '/ :r,V ".*•.]
.... -uu iM k ; lc 1
• 7'-' A V . \ , .
V'UUO.V* ; „l\2
.xuvwVpa^gMßSl
M
VV'W\\'liilJ6
i'SK'ii
• \ v Wtmm
■■'•'•'■Wml
'• IvMJII
4l
j r '*
■'l \ ImMmmmm
'i H
V. l N
.'.‘Vv
■ -'# s '
rV,'
is
'VMnv ~i;P
I l
/
1 //«//
.'/////'
W^lWBifSS
I .■ * I
1 • l f " *a' _*■ / I
VC


ource of Real Savin
A GREAT many motor-
ists look upon the
tyres they use simply as
a source of expense.
They consider the pur-
chase of such equipment
as just one unprofitable
investment after another.
But the Goodyear user
looks upon his tyres
somewhat differently—he
sees in them a source of
real saving.
For he realises that
tyres are necessary to the
usefulness of his car, and
that the extra service
Goodyears give is just so
much clear gain.
This extra service that
Goodyears give is not
fanciful or speculative, it
is very real.
It includes more miles
than could safely be
expected from other
tyres—more comfort and
greater freedom from
trouble.
It is due to the condi-
tions under which Good-
year Tyres are built and
to the materials which go
into them.
It is the end to which
every energy and impulse
of Goodyear is spent.
Goodyear users may
well look upon their tyres
as a source of real saving
---Goodyear tyres are
built to be just that.
They are made to
endure, to deliver the
highest type of satisfac-
tion under all conditions
of service.
They are large of girth
and thick of tread, that
they may stand the scuff
and pummelling of the
road without faltering.
They are stout of struc-
ture and tough of sub-
stance, that they may
wear slowly and with
stubborn reluctance.
In consequence, more
Goodyear Tyres are sold
in Australasia now than
formerly, owing to their
general excellence of con-
struction becoming more
widely known.
This could hardly
occur if Goodyears
offered anything less than
conspicuously better
value.
And the volume of
Goodyear sales is con-
stantly growing greater.
Which is clear evidence
that the better value in
Goodyear Tyres is con-
sistent and invariable.
Sometime YOU will
come to Goodyear Tyres
—sometime you will reap
the benefit of the extra
service they give.
When you do come to
them, buy them of the
Goodyear Service Station
Dealer near you.
He is equipped and
ready to help you get
from Goodyear Tyres the
final mile of service we
have built into them.
That is his mission,
one he is pledged to ful-
fil with all the abilities at
his command.
Ask this dealer to
tell you about Good-
year Laminated Tubes—
BETTER tubes-and
what they mean in
lowering tyre costs.
Ask him to show you
the Goodyear Tyre Saver
Kit, which, as a primary
factor in tyre conserva-
tion, certainly should be
in your car.
rHE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
BRANCHES ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
/nz.
A
Goodyear Tyres, .Heavy Tourist Tubes and “ Tyre Saver ” Accessories
are easy to get from Goodyear Service Station Dealers everywhere.


%ctune4*
V—
-6
XV
m
' • c-s? >7>
,v_ .ov 1/ 1*
- 'C_
/>
SCI
N
; b
The name that represents the highest and
most consistent photo-play standard.
T
win through sheer merit; through their strength and beauty—
because they reveal in every foot of their length the fact that skilled
producers have put their hearts and brains into the making of them.
Th C ° t<Un P,leateSt stars on eai 'th. and the greatest number of them.
imericT 'vT' “ Warmth ° f Sa,lli B ht that bathes the greatest' studios in
Amenca. iheir very name-Paramount-reflects their quality.
he Paramount Trade-mark is the sign by which the public’s
mos populai choice of the world’s amusements is distinguished;
look for it if you want the best.
POLITICAL
POINTS
S. Australia’s Cold Tea zealots put it to
Premier Peake that according to Demo-
cratic principles he must submit the ques-
tion of prohibition to a referendum. Will
they admit, then, the right of the majority
to shut up, say, Methodist churches? When
the S. Australian has visions of the lock being
turned in his Methodist tabernacle, he may
begin to suspect that it isn’t every question
that can properly be submitted to a referen-
dum, and that personal liberty still counts
for something.
From “10-2-4,” at war work in England :
Whenever I can I yarn with the farmers, muni-
tion workers and so on; and how changed their
views are! Labor seems determined to take a share
both in the profits and in the control of industries
BEYOND PRICE.
MARRIED: “See the Government’s bringing
in a bachelor tax. Bit rough on some
of you chaps, eh?”
SINGLE: “It’s worth it, old man — it’s worth
it, what?”
after the war—if not earlier. The workers who
used to be State socialists now loathe Government
control, having had a taste of the ways of brainless
officials, and are inclined to turn to the private
employer for preference and to some mutually profit-
able arrangement that will give both sides a fair
deal—each business a kind of domestic institution.
There is going to be an important development along
these lines.
The astonishing bloodlessness of the Rus-
sian Revolution doesn’t yield promise that
the Bear will put much ginger into any-
thing more he may do for the Allies. The
Censor may have wiped the bloodstains, if
there were any, out of the reports of recent
events; but in the earlier stages, at any
rate, there were none to wipe out. Even
when a policeman was captured behind a
machine-gun he wasn’t killed or harmed.
“We have always been punished by the Gov-
ernment, so punishment must be wrong.”
said the most remarkable mob that surely
ever was. Partly it is the teachine of Tol-
stoy ; but mostly it is the national tempera-
ment. If the revolutionaries who are in
command hate bloodshed so much that they
will not kill the enemies of Democracy
against whom they have revolted at home,
the only safe thing to conclude is that we
shall not get much help from them in deal-
ing with the enemies of Democracy abroad.
They probably don’t know what Democracy
is.
THE REASON WHY.
LADY: “That’s a shilling more than you
ashed a week ago for the same bird.
How do you account for so sudden an
increase in the price?”
POULTRY-DEALER : “ ’Sail due to this reck-
less submarining, ma’am.”
The teetotallers of South Aus. have come
out into the open and shown that they aim
at Prohibition. A big deputation asked the
Premier for a referendum on the question.
Peake told them candidly, “No hope,” and
then gave foolish reasons for it. He is him-
self as good a teetotaller as the next man, he
said; but in a State that grows much
barley and many vines the financial side has
to be taken into account. Naturally the
waggoners filed out to compare Peake with
various Bible and Bunyan characters who
“preferred money to manhood.”
No end of trouble starts when Govern-
ments begin to bribe people to lend them
money by promising exemption from income
and other taxes. Just at present a dispute
is raging over the contributions of cos. to
War Loans. The Income Tax Commissioner
will allow a shareholder to deduct from his
taxable income that part of his dividends
which was derived from interest on War
Loan. But the Commissioner says that,
having allowed that exemption, he must not
allow it also to the co. which paid the
dividend ; so he proceeds to make elaborate
calculations to ascertain how much of its
non-exempt income the co. has not dis-
tributed and how much the co. is therefore
liable to pay tax upon. It is certain that in
scores of cases the shareholder will pay tax
on the full amount of the dividend received
by him from a co., no matter how much may
have been derived from interest on War
Loan. What does the shareholder in, say.
the Bank of N. S. Wales know about the
origin of his dividends? Here and there a
co. tells its shareholders what proportion of
the dividends it pays is taxable; but in the
vast majority of cases, if the tax on the full
amount is not paid by the shareholder, it
will be because the Income Tax people them-
selves have made the deduction. That a
taxpayer shouldn’t know how much of his
own income he is liable to pay tax upon is
ridiculous. Having made War Loan exempt
from income tax, and having encouraged
cos. to subscribe, the only rational thing to
do now_ is to make cos. pay income; tax
(deducting, of course, income from War
Loan), and relieve the individual sharehold-
ers, unsatisfactory as that plan is from some
points of view.
The heroics of Sydney Worker :
Ignoring the fact that they (the sympathy strikers)
were almost defenceless, without the least hesitation
they flung themselves into the fray.
They didn’t —they only flung themselves into
bed.
Beckett, M.L.C. for Melbourne North, is
also a member of the local council at Fitz-
roy. The other evening he put some inter-
esting V.D. facts before that body. He
declared that from one of Fitzroy’s “plague
spots,” 100 cases of infection had been re-
ported since the new V.D. law came into
operation, and suggested that the council
should shed some light on the ownership of
the dwellings in question. All that the
council would do in the matter, however, was
to protest faintly that it “had no legal
power to deal with it,” and went earnestly
on with its business of providing a new lin-
ing for the Mayor’s catskins, or some such
vital reform.
While Australia waits for the strike
against nothing to be settled, the cable
whispers horrible stories of the insults and
tortures some of its prisoners of war have
had to endure in Germany. The press that
inflames simple men with hysterical rubbish
about Capital’s “tyranny” and Labor’s
“slavery” and prints absurd imaginary pic-
tures of strong, muscular men being flogged
to work by fat, flabby men, might now con-
sider the case of the Austra-
lians who were beaten with
rifle-butts and trucked half-
naked into Germany. The
abolition of that very real and
terrible tyranny should appeal
to all Labor’s intellectuals; and
if there are any minor injustices
being perpetrated at home, they
can surely be righted by the
Law’s elaborate machinery
while the fighting men are
rescued. Labor never yet stood
by and allowed good mates to
smother or drown in a mine.
Why should it let them die of
illtreatment in German prison
camps? By throwing mines
idle and hampering troopships
at this time, it helps to give world-dominion
to a tyrant that has less regard for a man’s
body than the average Australian “tyrant”
has for a dog’s.
From London :—•
“N. S. Wales Premier’s Department.” You think
you know where that is. Somewhere in Sydney.
Wrong. Look up the London Morning Post of
July 25 for the correct address. At the end of a
long letter signed “W. A. Holman” are printed the
words, “N. S. Wales Premier’s Department, 125
Pall ; Mall.” No mere shake-down in the Agent-
General’s extensive premises was good enough for
William. A brand-new suite in London's street of
fashionable clubs was taken; and there the “N. S.
Wales Premier’s Department” was impudently setup.
Professedly in order to encourage indus-
tries, Australia follows the bonus plan as
regards a few items, and what a ghastly
farce the system is was shown by the figures
handed to the House of Reps, the other day.
For fibres, flax and hemp the total bonus
paid in the year 1916-17 was £267, distrib-
uted among 20 growers; for tobacco 23
growers collected £488; for preserved fish
three gathered £176; and for dried fruit 34
collected £2062. The bonus policy' threatens
to make the Commonwealth self-supporting
and nationally efficient in about 20 centuries.
EVEN HIS RELATIONS.
“By George, yes. I’m the very Devil on
germs and microbes, and all that sort of
dope. I sterilise and filter everything I
can lay hold of. Now, for instance, only
last”
“Great Cesar! It must be pretty rough on
the other people in the house?”
"Oh, I s pose so. Even my relations are
strained!”
N. S. Wales Labor-leader Storev ~
dopaty Dooley lately scored a cheap “A’
thanks from a conference 0 f ShfJ 7 f
assistants for trying to “get justice- i??
wretchedly-paid lower-grade teacher, 7
would have cost £98,000 to raise thl • lt
nmm salary to £l5O a year and u- miru '
James tried to get the money; but thl mSte - r
mates had to be cot down b) a Uu' 0^
A HARD TRIER.
"Humph! I thought you said you never
borrowed from your friends!”
"I don’t, old chap. But I’m not disheart-
ened. I still go on trying.”
order to make the State’s accounts square
and half of James’s £98,000 had to go The
difference between James and Storey is that
James has to find the money, and Storey
hasn’t. For six years Storey’s party was
where James is now; and not only‘did it
not do what James tried to do on this occa-
sion, but by piling up the State’s interest
lull it made the job of doing justice to this
or the next generation almost impossible.
The “National” coalition in South Aus.
shows signs of wearing thin already. Pre-
mier Peake has issued a public warning to
members of the party who may feel inclined
to go about the country pushing their own
views—an awful crime in the eye of the
party boss. Crawford Vaughan, who has
stood out of the combination Ministry, and
at whom the remark was obviously aimed,
replies :
I have not exchanged such shackles as the Official
Labor Party would have placed on me for such other
shackles as the Premier is apparently anxious to
impose upon some of us. We did not even agree not
to deal with contentious legislation—that proviso is
binding on the Government only. Nevertheless, good
sense will dictate to all Nationalists the necessity at
the present time of keeping party contentious matters
in abeyance.
And then Vaughan goes on to argue that
such subjects as he is now handling (pro-
portional representation, votes for soldiers,
disfranchisement of Germans, bulk-handling,
wheat-pool, etc.) are not party questions at
all. Which is nonsense. Anything is a
party question if any party can see a way
to get an advantage out of it. It hardly
seems possible that the immaculate concep-
tion could be a party question; yet there is
scarcely a general election at which an
attempt is not made somewhere or other to
make it one. Peake is more honest on this
question than Vaughan. In modern politics
everything that matters is a party matter,
as well as a lot of other things that don’t
matter.
As a result of the unsatisfactory labor
conditions along the Australian water-front,
the Dutch Packet Co. is considering the
withdrawal of its vessels from the Java-
Australia run. There are over 30,000,000
natives in Java and a considerable other
population, and the garden-island wants the
very things Australia can supply. But the
U.S.A. and Japan are out after the trade,
too, and ships are in such demand now that
a co. can pick and choose its ports. Prob-
ably Australia can do without an export
trade to Java ; but with a foreign debt of
£350,000,000 to pay interest on, it has to
get money by exporting to somebody, and
especially in view of the shortage of ship-
ping it is sheer madness not to cultivate the
markets nearest home. Labor has been a
harder borrower than any other party ever
known to Australian politics. It is up to
the leaders of that party to tell their fol-
lowers what their old policy now means.
We must export or go broke and have the
bailiffs in for unpaid interest. And every
strike along the water-front which hangs up
foreign-going vessels simply makes it more
difficult and expensive to do w'hat we have
simply got to do.
AMERICA INFORMED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Holman dealt in detail with the economic
ai.d industrial situation in Australia. He, too, pre-
dicted an increase in trade.” —Cable from New York.
He told them all about us. Line on line
With easy-flowing periods he spoke
Of wool and mutton, corn and tilth and vine,
And made them see us, patriot, boss and bloke.
He told of wide, free lands in shade and sun ;
And with a flashlight sentence made them wise
To splendid victories waiting to be won
By people with a little enterprise.
He told of Labor and the things it wrought.
Perchance he mentioned that it turned him down,
And how, without him, it had come to nought,
While Fuller broke the strike in Sydney town.
At any rate, he made them understand
How the rich future held an open door,
And that the earth had still another land
With quantities of pleasant hopes in store.
All Wall-street thrilled to hear the thing be said.
New York felt small beneath applauding feet.
The cheerful fancies that his language fed
Starred a Utopia ordered and complete.
Never the promise of the Spanish Main
To eager pirates seemed such zest to lend
As wide Australia—forest, hill and plain—■
All interest-bearing without stint or end.
The lights went out. The soft chin-music ceased.
The hearers whirled away on silent wheels.
But one returning from the windy feast
Re-wrought the wordy Aim of many reels.
“Gee, what a cinch!” he murmured in his sleep.
“War-flags will furl and Yankee Doodle slump,
And then upon that land of strikes and sheep
We’ll sail with goods to dump and dump and
dump.”
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


Just Published.
Just Published.
Two Splendid
Australian Shilling Novels.
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD
A first-class Australian mining story by one of the best and most popular
Australian authors. It tells of life in the early days of the Barrier, when
"any ironstone rise was pegged and worked and boomed.” Into this strenuous
pioneering is introduced Alice Power, a poor but refined Adelaide girl who,
engaged by an agency as a ‘‘companion to an elderly lady,” discovers on
arrival that she is the only woman on the field and that she is required
merely as a barmaid to a disreputable shanty. She becomes the centre of
interest in an exciting series of happenings.
By BRODA REYNOLDS.
Farmer Pike went to Sydney for the Show. The news got around that
he was returning with prize stock for his selection. The whole district turned
out to meet him and his purchases on his return. But instead of prize stock,
he returned with nothing more than a camera and photographic paraphernalia,
expressing his intention of abandoning farming and making his fortune with
the camera. His attempts to photograph everybody and everything in the
countryside are full of sparkling humor. But into this hilarious story enters
the pathetic figure of a very ill young swaggie. He provides some entirely
unexpected surprises for the reader, and. incidentally, a pretty little love story.
II- EACH.
ALL BOOKSTALLS
and BOOKSELLERS.
1/1 posted
from Publishers.
THESE ARE ONLY TWO of
One Hundred Australian Shilling Novels
in the “ BOOKSTALL" SERIES.
Australia’s Most Popular Fiction Library.
Over 1,500,000 Copies Sold.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
‘ an oo nvisMOoa m s n
4-76 George Street,
SYDNEY.
uunnuiiiHimiimiMMitimiiHNimi?miim!fmi l nmmmiiimimmim'niiiiiimmmHmiiimmmimmniuliuwmuiiimiiAiuiiiiiuuiuiul
West i nghouse
Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
Simplicity of detail.
Even turning moment.
Accessibility of all moving parts.
Minimum fuel consumption.
Low maintenance costs.
Absolute reliability.
Westinghouse Oil Engines are particularly suited for irrigation and
farm work, requiring no attention after starting up. Being fitted
with oil feed pump (of special construction) and fuel atomiser,
ensures complete combustion of fuel and high economy.
Westinghouse Gas Engines give highly satisfactory_and economical
service in driving generators for small electric lighting installations,
industrial and agricultural machinery, etc., as proved by the large
number now operating in all parts of the world.
Send your enquiries to nearest office.
rstmobous?
Manchester
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:—
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.,
77. King Street. Sydney.
Elder. Shenton & Co., Ltd.,
William Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co.. Ltd.,
27 —31, Currie Street. Adelaide.
Elder. Smith & Co., Ltd..
84 —88, William Street. Melbourne^
I'tiiiiiimiiiiimiimimimiiimiiimiimmmimmmmmimmiimmmmm iimmiii!iiiiiii!iimti
Works-Trafford Park. Manchester. England.
miiiiiiuiimuiiiimiitmiimiiiiiiiiimiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiJiitiiiitiiifiiiimuiiJiiiiiimtmiilli
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD-SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE, AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general symptoms of worms are a
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching in the anus. Other symptoms are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round .or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply-
pointed than the ground worm.
Young people are more subject to these
worms than middle-aged or elderly people.
They live in the bowels, and sometimes make
their way into the stomach and throat, caus-
ing sickness, vomiting and choking. Gener-
ally one or two would be the most a person
would be afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger number is met with. The length
varies from four to eight inches, but young
ones an inch to two inches long are also
found. The first thing to do is to rid the
system of the worms, and Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according to
directions, are an effective remedy for the
thorough eradication of the long round or
stomach worm —the common enemy of the
child, the youth, the middle-aged and aged.
A light, nourishing diet, out-of-door exercise,
and, if possible, a change of air, will greatly
improve the general health.
' Threadworms or pin worms are of very
common occurrence in children. They are
very small, from one-sixth of an inch to half-
a 11-inch in length, and resemble cotton
thread —they are sometimes called seat
worms, and reside in the lower bowels. The
chief symptom of this worm is severe local
itching, restlessness and irritability, and a
frequent desire to urinate, picking at the
nose; loss of appetite' and anaemia are also
observed. To get rid of tin' worms and their
eggs their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according
to directions, on an empty stomach, followed
by a dose of opening medicine, will succeed
where others fail.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are ' packed with full directions, and
are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 3s. 6d. per packet, or six
packets for 205., and if unable to obtain
locally will be mailed post free on receipt of
price. Prepared only by The W. 11. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.;
Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PREVENTABLE ILLNESS
The cost of living has been increasing by leaps and bounds during the past few months, and
thousands find difficulty in making ends meet. It stands all classes of the community in hand to
practise economy in everything, and to look to their general health to see there is no waste of time
and expense by preventable sickness. Bv keeping the system clean by using a simple remedy to
ensure the proper working of the digestive organs when they show signs of needing help, will pre-
vent many serious illnesses. Carelessness regarding these simple requirements of Nature is costly
both to the general health and the time wasted. Keep Dr. Morse’s Indian Pills always at hand,
and take a pill or two occasionally to prevent the little troubles, and the big ones will take care of
themselves. No better remedy can be had at any price. All classes of the community use them,
rich and poor, male and female —professional men who do not get enough physical exercise,
hard-working laborers who get too much, ladies of society and shop girls all find in
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills just the remedy to keep their systems in order. They
cleanse the stomach, purify the blood and tone the system, and aid in the digestion and assimilation
of the food. They are sold at a price within the reach of all classes.


Hoping for Russia’s military recovery is
like hoping for sunshine in the midst of a
thunderstorm —yet we hope especially when
inspired by that wisely optimistic spirit,
King George IV. topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder ooop
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE&SY&NEY
drinking with meals causes
INDIGESTION.
“You should never drink with meals if
you are troubled with indigestion,” I was
told, at a time when I could hardly eat a
meal without suffering afterwards. I fol-
lowed the advice rigidly, and, although I
vi as somewhat relieved, still suffered a good
deal. I tried several medicines, but without
any beneficial effect until a medical friend
ta J- ,ns ab 9 ut half a teaspoon-
tul of ordinary bisurated magnesia in half a
cupful ot warm water after each meal and
torv d So\' The / J eSUlt was quite sa tisfac-
J h . e . bisurated magnesia entirely coun-
teracted the acidity in the stomach,' which
TZT d L SP T ePSia; almost immedi-
atelj, and I am now able to eat, drink and
enjoy my meals without bad effects. Drink
ing with my meals does not worry me now
In r-nso any readers wou](J like *
excellent remedy, which I understand relieves
• e . r b * ncls . ° f iadl g estl °n just as effectually
as it did mine, I may add that it is obtain
able from any chemist, but I strongly advisi
anyone trying it to make perfectly sure they
get the bisurated magnesia, other forms noi
be '\DVT° Smtab^e or Purpose.—E.T.G
No razor’s edge has ever
been ground to that ex-
quisitely fine keenness you
get with the hard yet flexible
wafer blade of the
Culiette^
frmzxxnxi
MO STROPPING NO HONING
It took many years to make this per-
fect Gillette blade. But every Gillette
user knows what a pleasure it has
added to shaving. Take a packet
home to-night. Sold in cardboard
cartons.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia i
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Saefty Razor Ltd., London. Eng.
TRADE
mark
KNOWN THi
woßie evw
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, O.S.A.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The old-established, inoffensive little meet-
ing at the ’Awkesbury was outed this time by the
strike, wherefore the A.J.C. Spring meeting opens on
Saturday without the preliminary Rowley Mile and
Guineas having been decided on the rural course.
But of course there was a pony meeting in Sydney,
and there being nothing else to go a-punting on, or,
as Joe Carruthers says, “to provide a safety valve,”
sport was curtailed by having 11 races during the
afternoon and setting up a new totalisator record for
a pony course.
Now, dear brethren, let us consider the Epsom
Handicap and commune together over the nags in
the Metropolitan. You are going on Saturday to
Randwiek to seek out the winner of the mile event,
and whether you find him or not you will do the
same thing again two days later when the mile and
a half arrives. Most of you reckon it is all over
bar shouting. M’herefore, or because someone tells
you something, you intend putting up good solid
cash against the probability that, instead of being
a wise judge, you are only a guesser at best. Be
advised, brethren. Remember that finding the win-
ners of handicaps is a horribly uncertain industry;
also that money in your pocket is safe and in a bag
or a tote is trembling in the balance. There will be
big fields in both events. It is a long time since
either looked more open. The usual occurrence when
a big handicap wears the appearance of being a gift
is for something to transpire with unexpected celer-
ity at the wrong moment. It may happen again.
Nothing engaged in the Epsom has shown better
form in public lately than Ardrossan. This gelding
won the Tramway Handicap at Tattersall’s meeting
on September 8 with impressive thoroughness.
Carrying 7st. 21b. he ran the seven furlongs in “28,”
and can be relied upon to see a mile through. If he
gallops as well on Saturday and gvts a reasonable
share of luck, this page expects to see him up in the
fighting line towards the end. But when it comes to
making choice upon the basis of recent running, how
or where is a line to be drawn between Ardrossan’s
win in the Tramway and M T edge’s second at w.f.a. to
Cetigne in the Spring Stakes? In that event the
winner negotiated the mile with 9st. 31b. in “38,”
beating M’edge with 9st. by three lengths. In the
Epsom M'edge has Bst. 21b. It seems a fair thing to
expect that the Victorian animal can be looked for
towards the conclusion. And it also seems not
unreasonable to conclude that Norbury may be some-
where handy. Satin Bird and Sydian and Snow
King are also in the picture. But recent efforts of
these point to no more than the strong probability
that exists in a dozen other places. The writer has
much respect for M’edge, Norbury and Ardrossan.
So far as the Metropolitan goes it is one of those
races in which the public has to deal with many
unknown quantities and many reservations. The
favorite Court Jester, if as good an animal as he is
supposed to be, is as favorably handicapped as any-
thing in the race. But there is no reason for jump-
ing to conclusions on the subject'. Anyway, there
has been nothing in Court Jester’s performances at
Randwiek in the past nor in his track work lately
to justify a boom. Put the names in a hat, and if
Lingle, Cetigne or Snow King emerges instead of
Court Jester, any one of them will probably do as
well for you as anything else.
* * * *
“0.K.”: The absurdly short price quoted
about M’edge for the Epsom is comforting to his early
Victorian backers. In the State both come from
M’edge has a bigger following of ardent believers
than Court Jester for the Metropolitan. Confidence
in Connolly’s dead-birds was shaken badly during the
autumn and winter. They were never quite good
enough, and now the Man with the Smile is classed
as an optimist of the deepest dye. All the same, the
writer would sooner risk his chance of salvation on
Court Jester for the 12-furlongs race than on M’edge
for the shorter event. In both the Australian Cup
and Sydney Cup the son of Comedy Kira; mav have
been beaten for want of stamina rather than of speed.
M’ith only a mile and a half to travel he may be
equal to a brilliant run at the finish. Certainly his
owner’s optimism appears to be unbounded at time
of writing.
* * * *
The “A.J.C. Derby of 1917 threatens to
be remembered for a long time, because of the pre-
vailing uncertainty as to whether there is a genuine
Derby colt in the whole outfit and the bewildering
character of recent running. If the winner turns up
in Thrice, Prince Viridis or Biplane the individual
who knew all about what was going to occur will be
a frequent infliction. But this individual is not very
enthusiastic about it himself just yet, owing to the
prevalence of a suspicion that he may be wrong. No
matter how this race is contemplated from a distance
it looks a conundrum; and this page is a long way
from being convinced that the three most talked of
quadrupeds are going to argue the matter out by
themselves. Pah King deserves earnest consideration
and Broken Glass may be as good as some that have
been more frequently talked about. That Prince
Viridis will stay the journey is about the only
moderately certain thing about it all. But how he
will get along if something else stays with him is
another matter. If Thrice does it this writer expects
to see the favorite beaten, mainly because he cannot
make Prince Viridis fill his eye. The colt is game
and fast without a doubt, but he is not as fast as
Biplane on the only distances they have been over;
and he is small and a bit up in the air in front,
and peacocky. Thrice looks the part, but his breed-
ing is agin him. The Maorilander has yet to show
what he is like when he has done pulling. Pah King
this page suspects to be better than many people
think. Thrice and he may cause the Prince much
trouble.
“0.K.”: Some of the Maoriland authori-
ties seem to thuk that Biplane, given favorable con-
ditions, will win Sydney Derby as comfortably as he
bore away the Rosehill Guineas. Heavy goii g and a
thick atmosphere could stop the son of Air Motor, but
on a b.’ig’ht, dry day he can make a runaway race
of it, say the optimists. He certainly can’t win
any other way.
w * * *
It is not only among the fully-grown quad-
rupeds that a stayer suddenly develops a mania for
sprinting. Madame Rorie, for instance, is a lady
w’ho was never suspected by the pony-going public of
haying a partiality for flutters, her reputation being
that of a stii ker. M’herefore when she was produced
at Ascot (Sydney) on Saturday in a half-mile
scramble 15 to i attracted no attention —until a
few minutes before the barrier went up. Then things
began to happen in Israel, and Madame receded
under the pressure of cash to 5 s. On the tote there
were only 29 tickets out of 854 in the paddock, and
the div. for 10s., being £9 19s. 6d., made the other
odds look a bit foolish. Incidentally, if the money
had been put through the machine the other odds
would have made the div. look foolish. It always
goes that way on the double system.
For their inches it would be hard to find
a better pair than Lady Liddell and Queen Hurst,
two well-known Sydney pony performers. On Satur-
day at Ascot Lady Liddell, with list. 21b. aboard,
ran half a mile in sDJsecs., beating 10 others. Later
in the afternoon Queen Hurst conducted list, to the
front in 51£sec.
* # * *
Highfield, before being sold for stud busi-
ness in Queensland, had been carefully whispered as
a good thing for the Caulfield Cup. Another of the
much-whispered ones was Glad Eye, whose conspicu-
ously rotten performance on the Randwi< k track last
week was a very negative recommendation. M’his-
pers run to extravagant deceitfulness in the spring
of the year, when punters are being lured into
doubles. If Glad Eye, for instance, is nearly as good
as he was reported to be he is about twice as good
as he looks.
# * # *
There is every promise of a very pretty
scandal over the restriction of racing in Victoria.
The movement thus far suggests that the Jack M'ren
interest has been at work, inasmuch as the pro-
posal to cut down the number of big club meetings
that profit patriotic funds will benefit the proprie-
tary meetings, which exist only for the encourage-
ment of the breed of undersized horses or others that
can’t earn their corn on the registered courses and
for the personal enrichment of M’ren. Any reduction
of racing should begin with the suspension of pro-
prietary meetings where pony sprints are the princi-
pal, or only, “sporting” events. If the turf be per-
missible as a gambling institution for promoting the
breeding of the finest type of horseflesh, it is obvious
that the clubs which provide the biggest stakes, and
put rich w.f.a. races in their programmes occasion-
ally, are the only ones deserving of Government
license in war-time. This aoart from the fact that
the clubs give their profits to patriotic funds as a
matter of course.
. » « »
“Spreader”: Based on race results the
three greatest horses bred in Australia or Maoriland
were Carbine, Machine Gun and Redleap, although
the old-timer will tell you that Trident was faster
than Machine Gun and that The Barb’s equal has
yet to be found. Amongst the middle-distance
horses of late years Bobrikoff must be given a
prominent place. Some of his performances under
crushing weights in M.L. will ftard for many a
day to come. Here’s an assorted dozen to go on
with; but I never realised until I tackled the list
how many top-notchers would fight for a place in
it: Advance, Paris, M'akeful, Record Reign,
Abercorn, Poseidon, M'oorak, Sir Modred, Newhaven,
Grand Flaneur, Desert Gold, Battalion.
* * * •
During the running of the first division
of the 14.2 Handicap at Ascot (Sydney) on Saturday
Lady Bell came down near the three furlongs post
and Plain Iris and Fleetwitch toppled over her.
Fleetwitch came a terrible cropper. She was thrown
clean over the rails on to the tan track. Sydney
Griffiths, who was riding Lady Bell, was so badly
injured in the smash that he died the following
night. The lad, who was only 16, had been riding
in races for over a year. He was a very promising
horseman. His father is a well-known pony-trainer.
* * * »
“Law” Fisher, a well-known Victorian
horseman, died last week. He rode his last race
on Riverslea on September 1. The horse fell and
Fisher was badly hurt. Pneumonia came on top of
his injuries. He was only 22. Among his wins
were on Garlin in the Doncaster of ’l5 and Amata
in the Newmarket of the following year. He was a
brother of the late S. D. Fisher, who steered Murmur
to the front in the Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
Tom Cannon, lately dead in England, was
best known to this century by his sons Morny and
Kempton; but in the last he was a great jockey
and trainer. He started riding in 1860, aged 14,
and weighing under 4st., and for the next 20 years
was the chief rival of Archer and Fordham.
With all his success in big races it was a joke
against him that he could not win a Derby, and
he only broke the spell (on Shotover) towards the
end of his time, in 1882. He was said to get
£15,000 a year as retainer from Abington Baird.
Cannon, like the good apprentice in the stories,
married the daughter of liis master, the trainer
John Day, and in due course had another highly
successful 20 years as trainer for Baird and others.
“Mujik” : No, that definition of a sports-
man quoted by “Trot” (B. 20/9/’l7), “A man who
tries to do the fine thing,” will not do. It is too
literary. Its effect is to divorce the sportsman from
sport—to bring into the arena of sport qualities
which are peculiarly foreign to it. A better way
to retain the atmosphere would be to say that a
sportsman is one “who tries to do the clever thing”
—and the degree In which he succeeds or the charac-
ter of the methods he employs can be taken as the
measure of his sportsmanship. Give any sporting
man a topnoteh horse and he will be a good sport,
while the animal lasts, anyhow. Give him a squib,
and you make him a pony-doper.
* * » *
The demolition of motor-cycle records is
still steadily proceeding in Unde Wilson’s country.
E. G. Baker, who was in Australia a while back, only
briefly enjoyed the lustre of travelling 13861 miles
on the Cincinnati Speedway in 24 hours. Another
rider named Parkhurst got into a hurry on a New
York track, and at the end of the 24 hours his cyclo-
meter had registered 1452 J miles. Some of his
times were wonderful. He did 500 miles in seven
hours 35min. 17sec., while the 1000-mile post fell
behind in 17 hours Bmin. 28sec. If he hadn t
adjourned for an hour owing to heavy’ rain, he would
have achieved more remarkable results. As it was,
he made our fastest express train look like a funeral
at Geelong.
Frank Kramer, the American bike king,
has had to hand over his crown to a young Canadian
named Spencer alter a record reign of 16 years. The
veteran was decisively walloped in Noo Yark in the
recent championship for six distances ranging from
a quarter to five miles. Spencer won four events, the
Australian, Goullett, collared the other two, and
Kramer had a place in the procession behind. The
sudden staling of his Majesty’ is considered to be
Nature's straight tip that his abdication was due.
* * * *
Rupert Jeff kins, who arrived at Melbourne
G.P.O. at noon on September 17, having left Syd-
ney in his “Rco” ear at 3 p.m. on the 11th, has
demonstrated that serviceable touring autos, can be
built in this benighted country. From Tumut to
Melbourne it rained emphatically’, and the car was
bogged four times. From Euroa to Seymour, on the
Victorian side, the roads were submerged, but there
was no breakdown, ar.d the pump was not put on
the tyres once. The car, a two-passenger roadster,
weighing 12001 b., was built at Glebe. It covered
700 miles, averaging 60 per gallon of benzine. Yet
last month £30,000 was sent out of Australia for
cars.
* * * -*
“Jewba”: A day or two ago between Wal-
gett and Come-by-Chance (N.S.W.) I happened on
ex-international cricketer Edwin Evans, of the day’s
of Blackham, Ned Gregory, Bannerman and Kelly of
R' thrrglen. Wasn't it the last-named who said at
Melbourne that he could play Evans with a spoon?
He came in to bat smoking a huge cigar, which he
tossed at Gregory’s feet at cover. As he retired,
clean bowled, Gregory picked up the cigar and
handed it back with: “Your cigar, Kelly—still
alight.” Evans is as jovial as ever, and though his
thoughts are mainly of sheep his cricket instincts
still survive. He has a “cricket team” family—ll.
Some old-time cricketers came out to
have another smack in the Past v. Present fixture at
Moore Park (Sydney) on Saturday. Alec Banner-
man, who umpired, tripped with the first Australian
XI in 1878, and also with the ’BO, ’B2, ’B4, ’BB
teams. Svd Gregory was in the Xl’s of ’9O, ’93,
’96, ’99, ’O2, ’O5, 'O9 and ’l2. Harry Donnan was
in the ’96 team. Besides these there were ex-inter-
State play’ers in A. J. Bowden, Tom Howard and
A. Mcßeth; “Jimmy’” Searle, the biographer of
cricket; A. M. Sweetnam, a shining light at bowls.
The gathering bristled with reminiscences when it
wasn’t swelling the War Chest funds.
* * * #
There is a horrible slump in the value of
historic’ cricket bats now that other weapons are
in fashion. Bats that once belonged to W. G.
Grace and Victor Trumper were lately sold at Lord’s
lor a Blinded Soldiers’ fund, and went at £2 each.
Rhodes’s bat which made (with the help of Hobbs)
the record first-wicket test-match stand, brought
£5 10s. Barnes the bowler gave one on which he
had secured the signatures of all the Australian,
English and S'African teams that were in the tri-
angular tests. It fetched only £7, and the enthusi-
astic Warner was the buyer.
* * * *
’ Bluey lit a fresh cigarette.
. Talking about bombers,” said he, “we had a bloke
in our company named Dinkum Dolan, a rough
Christian from Mildura way, but terribly absent-
minded. Me went into billets for a spell, and an
English push challenged us at cricket. Old Dinkum
lost the match. We were a few runs in hand, and
tne la.-t batsman was half-way between the wickets,
and his chance looked like the Kaiser’s. Dinkum had
nothing to do but stump him ; but the batsman ran
in and Dinkum still held the ball. ‘Why the Hell
chant you stump him, Dolan?* roared our captain.
I was feeling for the bleedin’ pin I* said Dinkum.”
* * * *
From a young Australian officer in Bel-
gium:—-
i, i; T i°‘ day n °* , far from the guns and with
hostile aircraft about, we play’ed the final match for
the cricket championship of the brigade—Head-
V th / nt S Bat ,talion. H.Q. won the toss,
deemed to bat, and made 46 and 66. Most of the
p!w ng r“ r t h D battalion was done by Stephens, of
®°* de . n Baßa f at . 1° for 28. That was pretty
good, but the battalion’s batsmen went to pieces,
being able to amass only 6 and 18. Jarman of
Claremont (W.A.), took 10 wickets for 0 in the first
inmngs all clean bowled. Beckley 0 for 6. When
the battalion lined up at the wickets for a second
smite Jarman sent 4 away for 11, and Beckley 6 for
6. Lieut. D. R. Davies, of South Melbourne, carried
his bat through the first innings for 4 and in the
second had scored 10 when he gallantly ran himself
out at the ninth wicket. There was great excite-
pardeular ” hS game generally - and Jarman’s scoop in
But he will not play any more cricket. He went
mortally wounded ' and WaS brought in
* * * *
Saturday’s Vic. League “grand final” was
a pleasing circumstance—to Collingwood barrackers.
The episode seemed quite like old times, especially
when some ill-regulated hoodlums from adjoining
suburbs got into holts near the scoring-board and
mixed it. Of the two teams ’Wood were experts
Roy mere boggers-in. After half-time the perform-
ance grew wearisome, and ’Mood wound un with
9 goals 20 behinds to ’Roy’s 5 goals 9 behinds. The
hut MchX 6 ad bea ‘ en ’ Wood by 6 points,
but McHale, who has captained the team for six or
S/Sl”’ w S absen . t ’ and an experienced leader
counts for a lot nowadays, especially when the man
who takes his place can find no one to do his work
as well. Dick Lee, with his damaged leg, added a few
“ goas to h s huge tally, and his
Cur t’ s > a long) left-footed streak, also made his mark
° f Time ’ so t 0 s Peak. A 30,000 crowd
"T-l S °T 1750,I 750 , into the League’s coffers
and then the gates closed. Mhether they will open
again depends less on us than on the proceedings
incidental to a much bigger game. P e ngs
Some of the team’s more smwrohv
followers know why ’Wood won the \l c f tl t ? US
League premiership. An old player “tw. c, 00^ 311
now at the Front, sent to E. W Conehimf Seddon >
of the club, a lucky
the company shoeing-smith Its matm-ioi r " re b . v
driving-band of a German 15in. shell wh eh"‘‘Do h ’-
found at Bapaume and the nails were made
pieces of a Hun plane brought down by m
the Somme. The trophy arrived on the on
the match, and was on show in the dll'? ° f
room. 0 ur essing.
N.S.W. Football League fAn^v
Rules) premiership struggle ? nde d in
when Paddington overwhelmed East Svdnev
points to 28. It was the fourth clash of the V 92
during the season, and the East ate the leek 'f
time. The treble win of premierships (1915 m o-'’
gives the Norwood Shield a permanent restinLmF )
at Paddington. During a breather Wally MeSn!l
(of Rugby League) landed the League goflSf
championship with a place kick of 624 yLds Svi g
playing with Rugby League, Wally landed Vgft
(one less than Bolewski) in 1915, 50 goals in oa
and 23 in >17 Saturday’s effort with the boot k
a long way behind Dave McNamaras Austral
record of 86ft. lin. was put up in Victoria 1
An all-rounder who looks like doing hi?
things in heavyweight athletics of the future is p
Cruise, of St. Ignatius College (Sydney) At tk
championship meeting on Saturday he won'the nmf
shot (35ft. 8fin.), throwing discus (79ft 4^7
120yds. hurdles (18sec.), and mile (5min 28?sec' ’
and dead-heated (with T. Ireland) in the hiirh
jump. These muscular efforts gathered the senior
championship of the college. It was the best all
round performance of the year out of school.
- * * »
Not bad jumping this. At the Q.A\a
All Schools’ meeting in Charters Towers first" anti
second places in the running broad jump were
gained by two 16-year-old High School bovs. Their
jumps were: Winner, 18ft., 18ft. 7in., and’ 19ft 4in
Second, 18ft. and 18ft. 7in. Still these figures are
not in it with the jumps once done bv two Hi?h
School boys when a local orchardist intimated that
he detected them sampling peaches. The writer
did 187 yards in the first leap and 275 in the second
and escaped. The other chap did a 6ft. fence and
fell on a spike decorating the top. Whereupon the
starter slowly lifted him off the nail and punted a
goal with him.
* * * I
It is bad manners to heave a brick at the
timekeeper, but the record-smashing at Sydney Girls’
High School championships deserves recognition of
some sort. The watch-holder alleged that Miss S.
O'Brien won the 100 yards Old Girls’ Championship
in llsec., and Miss H. Adamson fled over a simi-
lar distance in 11 l-5sec. These figures knock the
world’s amateur record —12sec. by Dolly Mace
(N.S.W.), M. Thornton and M. Morgan (U.S.A.)—
to the scrapheap. But even if the record fails to
stand it is mighty cheerful to know that the Old
Girls can still push the young ’uns off in an argu-
ment with the watch.
"Bally”: "Mat” (B. 13/9/’17) wants to
know whether anybody has done so well as Stan
Wickham in so many branches of sport. What about
these? S. A. Spragg was an Australian Rugby rep.,
rowed in the Queensland Eight, and but for the
accident that ended his football would probably
also have played cricket for Bananaland, for he was
an average-topper as a bowler in Brisbane premier-
ship matches. As a place-kick Spragg was Wickham’s
equal at least. I saw him take 10 shots at goal in
a first-grade tussle one afternoon in 1902, and the
ball crossed the bar each time. Roger Hartigan,
who passed the century' in his first test match and
afterwards toured England with the Australian XI,
also represented Ma at baseball and Bananaland at
lacrosse. But can anybody parallel the achievement
of P. J. S. Carew from Pine Mountain (Q.) ? Dur-
ing the winter of 1899 he was Australia’s star for-
ward in all four test games against Parson
Mullineux’s English Rugby XV, and before November
was finished had also slung hammer and shot for
Bananaland in the Australasian championships and
played cricket for his State against New South.
* * * *
“M.F.”: Patrick Murphy, of Bananaland.
has a few records. He has just passed the 35-year
mark, and has used his boots in 26 inter-State Rugby
matches, 14 international struggles and eight pre-
miership disputes. He started to pursue the oval
bag in 1902 and still possesses more nimbleness than
the average elephant. Incidentally, Patrick is
another argument to illustrate the deadliness of a
climate which shatters the energy and shortens the
life of everyone over 87.
* * * *
In one of John Bull’s lists of killed in
action comes the name Thomas Nelson. Twenty
years or so ago Thomas was a star Rugby player—
a Scottish international. He left nearly half a
million, derived from the great publishing house ot
Nelson and Sons.
* * * *
"Major” : I don’t know anything about
eels, but I know Lake Elingamite (Vic.) well, and
there are not many better places to visit after
perch. They are caught there by thousands every
year from October to February. If anyone wants to
see a photograph of what two rods did in a day 1
can show one in which 200 fish can be counted.


■ ■
m
WHY DON’T YOU HAVE
PERFECT HEALTH?^—.
Nature intended you to be strong, healthy and vigorous.
If you neglect to exercise both your seen and unseen
muscles—if you fail to strengthen your lungs, digestive
organs, etc., you must expect to pay the penalty, and have
indifferent health. It cannot be otherwise.
But, if you wish to enjoy perfect health —to become fit,
strong and well developed, as nature intended you to be,
then you must have correct and sufficient exercise.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will be the means of giving you renewed health and
strength. You will find my exercises both beneficial and
enjoyable pastime, and will look forward to the time when
you have to do them. You will find the benefits very rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my Course will
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen your
lungs, and make you breathe in a natural way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suited to your
individual physique—just as the particulars you furnish
tell me you require.
My booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-Culture,”
tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should like to send
you a copy. Just write your name and address across this
advertisement and post it to me. I will know what you
mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
I REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
682 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
r
m
:
THE CHOICE
OF THE PEOPLE
■BRBEBBMa
v\\*
I
All You
Need to
Look for
Motor Cycle
e Name
'lndian
Catalogue “ D '* with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. CIS:
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
on a
is th
rrw WT
•*Australian Glory ”
Egyptian Cigarettes.
Just Landed
Another Shipment of these
Choice Cigarettes, the
product of Nestor Gianaclis
Ltd., Cairo.
We were fortunate to land this shipment at the old price, consequently the price is
as usual, viz. :
8/6 per 100. Postage paid.
Why not try a packet of 10? Forwarded anywhere for 1/-
A. Kebblewhite, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,"
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Changing temperatures or trying roads make no
difference to the efficiency of
I
nj
• •■•■■•MM
NATIONAL
BENZINE
for it gives the same instant
“pick up,” the same ready
response to the slightest
touch of the accelerator, and
the same, never-varying,
powerful driving force, mile
after mile, UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS.
Test the sweet, clean, un-
grudging and economical
qualities of “National”
YOURSELF.
Obtainable all Garages
and Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
mm
” ;
iW-.r, v?. »«■*
SSTV;
323
iir~“
■S
I ''
w®
c i
SIMI
vliSi-S
i
Ss
\
X
w m?z
;• ; Ai.V ’ iff: >-v*?s
«
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
Price 26 bottle
mm
m
‘••Ha Ivi/->vi
r
n\
< !
A-
A JOt'R
■ ■ /,/.
mu
■:■ ■
■> ■
iiK.'®
1
“L.SJUDHPORES, 22 16
TAILOR-MADE TO ORDER
r T''HE Judhpore is a combination of the ideas responsible
J- for the production of Riding Breeches and Riding
Trousers of the usual design. With Judhpores you get
the fullness at the thighs and almost the same close fitting
at the knees as are features of Riding Breeches of regu-
lation pattern. No leggings are needed. The design
obviates the necessity of using laces or buttons at the
knee. The garments can be pulled on as quickly and
easily as ordinary Riding Trousers. You therefore get
also the commendable features of the latter.
There is no doubt as to the handiness of Judhpores, and
they have more than justified their great popularity in
Australia.
We quote our “L.S.” Special Judhpores in Military
Drills at 22/6, tailor-made to order. Other materials are
obtainable up to £4.
SAMPLES ARE POST FREE
with tape, self-measurement form, copy of catalogue, etc. We
make to a 6-day schedule. We Pay Freight. We Guarantee
Satisfaction. Write us To-day.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Flinders Street (opposite Station), Melbourne
A rys


“BIFF” MAKES HAPPY
FACES and FEET.
BANISHES CHILBLAINS.
V*
*77;
g>
Me
fIY o>o£
r t tt\
I've vitd
'JMFf
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
“BIFF" is a scientific compound which draws out
all poisonous matter from the pores of the skin,
leaving the skin in a perfectly healthy condition,
to perform its natural functions. This unique
compound will renderthe feet sweet and antiseptic
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
"I have suffered from tender and perspiring feet
for over 20 years. I have used "BIFF” and the
result is wonderful, I wish I had known about it
before, it would have saved me many years of
pain.”—F.J.W., Tonga.
"After bathing my feet for several days, the chil-
blains disappeared, and I have not been troubled
since.” —
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
F HE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane; or
193 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
&f>e “DAISY”
Combination Acetylene Table & Bracket Lamp.
As per illustra-
tion. Complete
with globe and
bracket.
Solid Brass.
Post Free,
17/0
75 Candle Power.
Burns 6 Hours
at one filling.
LUX LIGHT CO.
OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
TO MAKE
DELICIOUS JELLIES
USE ONLY
JELXIIME
PURE FRUIT JUICES USED
FOR ALL FLAVORS.
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO.,
WATERLOO, SYDNEY.
Agents.
BRISBANE: A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.
MELBOURNE: P. W. HEYMAN.
HOBART: AGENCIES LTD.
ADELAIDE: AGENCIES LTD.
Dozens of Uses
TDICTURED at the right are
only a few of the many uses of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. You
could secure no handier aid for use
in polishing and finishing.
m
11
ii
4< The Dust-Proof Polish”
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a
perfectly hard, dry, glasslike polish
of great beauty and durability.
It gives Craftsman Furniture
that soft, artistic polish so appro-
priate to this style. It entirely
removes the “cloudiness” from Ma-
hogany, restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Pre-
pared Wax for keeping dining-
room tables bright ana tempting.
Hot dishes do not affect it in the
slightest.
Every family has dozens of uses for
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Keep a
tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos .
Floors
Woodwork
Piano
Furniture
Motor Car
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is conven-
iently put up. Always ready for use.
No tools or brushes required. All
you need is a soft cotton rag.
You can secure Johnson’s Prepared
Wax from all good dealers, or from:
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W,
•fjoOjwiiiwwciigaiuuMuwa a a an a; a w a a a o o o 00000 0 0 n <3 0 0 0 0 0 0 osa noooo 00000 00000111 a a oa 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 u a 0 0 0 0 0 0 do 0 uooo caooonouo
m
E2sS
itL
S 3
= v'- r «D^
Vi-
'• • - A *>
•;iiOOOOOOI!OllO(HilOI)'0 0 0 00000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (I 00 0 OQ 0 0 0 II 11 0 0 0 (1 QOO 000000
fcagr ir^Tinn^
0 0 0 0 0 1)0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 OOQO'OO OOOQBOOO 0 0 0 00000
I I I JLLK--
1 §'
= O i
iSii
4£i|
UJ EH
ties-
>l
<1 g
,i qj V
is r#
f£2<S *
I Pi *<
=/ .iTA»
Carry an ONOTO with you
To the business man, the student, the soldier or
sailoi, the wife at home, no better advice can be
given than “carry an ONOTO with you.”
The ONOTO is the British made Fountain Pen that fills itself in a flash
from any ink supply— cannot leak—and cleans itself in filling. The ink
now can be regulated to suit your style of writing. It never scratches,
never splutters, and —may we repeat it?—never leaks.
©eksd®
SELF
FILLING
SAFETY
FOUNTAIN
PEN
Price 14 q
and upwards. Also
ONOTO Valveless for those
w ho do not want a-Self-Filling
FroVn^n 6 '!’ f rOlU 10/6 u P"ards.
MZdact^rT s Hcis ew s er^ st rr s -
-259 Bunhill Row, London E c at " Ud ’ s6mm
York street, Sydney ’* £ '“' Man aging Agents: Norman Baker & Longhcrst,
tlwt llie people elwuld ba>o
«• «•» 0 ”^
still may get a licking. -Ire
tet the Rarisher 0/ BeU\ium
lifting a handf
you going to
tcin witl> o,lt
The Savings Bank of South Australia.
which isn’t the State Bank of S. Aus.,
though it ought to be part of it: —
Interest to Written Re-
June, Profits. Depositors. Off. serves.
1906.. £153,800 31 p.c. =£144,277 £7705 £168,927
1907.. 164,957 3[ ~ „ 147,157 3640 183.087
1908.. 184,312 3i „,, 163,429 8811 195,159
1909.. 198.589 31 „„ 178,044 8952 206.752
1910.. 216,120 3} ~ ~ 191.588 9336 221.948
1911.. 234,573 3* 222.155 9780 224.586
1912.. 256,632 3} .. ~ 244,287 1601 235,330
1913.. 251.459 31 .. .. 263,969 2308 250,542
1914.. 312.955 34 .. .. 283.321 6695 273.481
1915.. 327.798 3| .. ~ 313,057 3746 284,476
1916.. 328,764 3| .. ~ 312.149 3571 297,520
1917.. 363,522 4* .. .. 354,211 2664 304,167
-*On amounts under £350.
Though the Commonwealth Bank is along-
side, competing through the pervasive post
offices, while this institution has to rely
mostly upon local storekeepers, etc., to act
as agents, it puts up an astonishing per-
formance :—•
Estimating the population of the State on June 30
at 430.000, the proportion of depositors to population
was 62 in every 100. Including 25.538 pennv bank
depositors, the proportion was 68 in every 100 per-
sons.
But quite as remarkable is the growth of the
deposits during the past few years :
1908 ..£5,803,301 1913 ..£8,608,478
1909 .. 6,328,870 1914 .. 9,018,837
1910 .. 6,771,150 1915 .. 9,017,061
1911 .. 7,411,710 1916 .. 9,265,705
1912 .. 8,223,260 1917 .. 10,265,849
And, since the start of 1913, there has
been competition with the post-office savings
bank. This raises an interesting point. It
has been often suggested that the working-
man is no better off for the high wages of
the past few years, because of the high
prices he has had to pay for tucker, clothes,
etc. There is, however, evidence here of a
sort that, after paying his bills, he has had
a considerable sum to put by. It isn’t con-
clusive evidence, because it may not be the
wages man who has practically doubled the
Savings Bank deposits in 10 years ; but there
surely must be a considerable number of him
in the total. Yet even if the wages men of
the State owned the whole £5,000,000, it
would not follow that they are five millions
better off. In the- past 10 years the State
Government has gone into debt approxi-
mately 16 millions. The five millions is
merely part of the 16 millions which the
State owes. And the interest on the five
millions is at least partly absorbed in taxes
to meet the interest which is unearned by
the works in which the 16 millions are in-
vested. That that amounts to something
substantial is suggested by the fact that in
the two years 1905-6 the average S. Aus-
tralian taxation was £1 Is. 2d. per head ; in
the last two years covered by Ivnibbs’s tables
£1 9s. lid. per head. The extra money
dropped into this Savings Bank in the last
10 years would, at 3± p.c., earn about
£187.500 a year. The extra taxation (on
the basis of Bs. 9d. per head) means about
£195,000.
The bank’s capital consists of its undivided
profits (£304,167) ; and in addition the
whole credit of the State is in the bank’s
strongroom. Against liabilities of over 10
millions a fund of £304,000 wouldn’t in ordi-
nary circumstances be anything to feel very
joyful about. But in this case note how
the deposits, etc., are invested: —
Mortgages .. ..£2,034,325 19.1 p.c.
Public securities .. 6,735,934 63.1 ~
Premises .. . . 81.355 .8
Cash, deposits, etc... 1,820,228 ”,
Thus, less than 20 p.c. is in mortgages,
premises, etc.; the balance is in public
securities and cash. Certainly, public
securities are liable, as we have seen lately,
to big slumps, too. But in this case the
bank could never be allowed to get into
trouble because of a slump in the market
value of its public securities, since no less
than £6.000.000 of the total of £6,735,000
is in the State’s own securities. To all
intents and purposes it guarantees them to
be worth book value at all times.
. During the past year the bank has recog-
nised that the requirements of the Common-
wealth and State must have first considera-
tion, and there was actually £3577 less out
on mortgage at the end than at the opening
of the year. Thus the bank hasn’t been able to
take the fullest advantage of the very high
rates ruling for mortgages. (Incidentally,
one return shows that 6 p.c. is the highest
rate obtained by this bank for mortgage
loans. In that case the S. Australian bor-
rower may reckon himself fortunate.
Nothing less than p.c. is at present being
even considered by some of the trustee and
finance cos. in Sydney.) Nevertheless the
interest allowed to depositors has been put
up to 4 p.c., for the first time since 1895.
But there wasn’t much over when exes, had
been also paid. These averaged 7s. 3d. p.c. of
deposits and reserves combined and 6fd. per
transaction (deposit or repayment).
* * * •
Westralian War Munitions Co., which last
year started with much energy and enthu-
siasm to make shell-cases, but had to give
up, principally for want of steel, has issued
a balance-sheet. The whole of the assets
which include £ll,OOO due by the Common-
wealth Government, are liquid and are stated
to be sufficient to return, to shareholders 4s.
of every ss. subscribed. It is not, however,
intended to make a distribution yet, as the
money may be wanted for giving "the output
of munitions a lift in some other way.
“Sliprair: I think the Wild Cat (B.
23/8/’l7) is right when it suggests that the
richest deposits of molybdenite in N. S.
Wales have as yet been only sampled. In
the Yeoval district half a dozen mines are
working on a small scale, and the present
results are from Ito 3 p.c. As the collective
wealth of all the holders is about five bob.
they are financially unable to treat such
low-grade stone, though it would be payable.
If autocrat Hughes were to allow our molyb-
denite to be sold on the Allied markets the
price realised would be £lOOO per ton—about
twice the fixed price here—and a tremendous
fillip would be given to the industry. Any-
way. why shouldn’t we get the market value
for our products?


‘Pianos
f/A
m
m
ri
im
Keysawing is one of the
delicate tasks in the mak-
ing of pianos. It requires
a nice degree of skill on
the part of the operator
and a mechanical equip-
ment which includes a
band saw of special thin-
ness. The k e y ivories
are first glued upon a
solid board. The opera-
tor then saws each key
from its fellow-mate,
working entirely free-
hand. Guides are im-
practicable as each finger
key of the scale has its
own particular shape.
This is an instance of the
great care required in —
relatively —a minor phase
of Piano making.
Supremacy
IN the world of commerce
only genuine merit ever at-
tains permanent supremacy.
The shoddy, insincere sham
may have a meteoric rise to
an undeserved eminence, but
its fall to ruin is as swift as
that of a burnt-out rocket.
Merit —that is the prime essential to
lasting success. It is the only thing
that explains why the name Beale
stands to-day for something more than
a mere manufacturing concern.
“Better, better, and still better!” That
has been the Beale slogan in the past. And,
although the most masterly musician could
not ask for a more responsive instrument
than we offer, it will continue to be our
slogan in the future.
The matching, Jointing
and glueing on of ivories
is an important part of
\ey making. Every
Ivory is in two parts —
the “Head” or finger
part, and the tail. The
joint between them has to
be made so as to be prac-
tically invisible. These
Ivories are first cut to
size, then thicknessed and
scored on the under side to
make them adhere firmly.
They are next glued on
to a specially prepared
board by an expert —
each “Head and tail
being individually adjusted.
The Ivories are then
polished and the
sawn apart.
V\
'•>
W
so
LTP
333
Oeor^i
5< Sydney
Factory:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.,
ANNANDALE.
Branches at: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples, in all Melbourne
Suburbs TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen St., Brisbane; Kent St., Maryborough; Flinders St., Townsville: Rockhampton.
Sydney St., Mackay. Cairns.


THE DEAF
HEAR! <
I Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing- Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing instr u-
ment- the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phono nianv times as efficient
reiKoii i>ai riionc atui pou . erful a 8 the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
und for all stages of deafness.
Call and test ft free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard's Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Meara Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
[Price
Posf
DARBY AUTO
SUPPLIES
Co.PCvj.LW
Elizabeth
STREET
MELBOURNE-
Horlick’s Malted MUk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horhck’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
iick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
e
*®j«a
ssaJU
London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous Hair.
It is easy to remove superfluous hair tem-
porarily, but, to remove it permanently is
quite another matter. Not many women
know that for this purpose such a simple
substance as powdered pheminol may be
used, applied directly to the hair. The recom-
mended treatment is designed not merely to
instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Almost any
chemist could supply an ounce of pheminol,
which quantity should be sufficient.
Renewing Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless to potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things in an effort to get
rid of the trouble. Unless you have some
ability as an artist, you will mar your ap-
pearance still more. The new and' rational
way is to take off the complexion itself, with
all its offensive marks. Just get some pure
mercolized wax at the chemist’s and use at
night the same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of cold water. The mercolized wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky
particles, so gradually that no one guesses
you are treating your face—unless it be by
the result, which is truly wonderful. There
is nothing like it for bestowing a natural,
healthy and beautiful complexion.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which will
then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with the stymol-eharged water and then dried
with a towel. The offending blackheads, of
their own accord, come right off on the
towel, the large oily pores immediately con-
tract and efface themselves naturally. There
is no squeezing, forcing, or any drastic
action. The skin is left uninjured, smooth,
soft and cool. A few such treatments should
be taken at intervals of three or four days
thereafter in order to insure the permanence
of the pleasing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Gi-ey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often down-right injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You have only to get two ounces of
tammalite concentrate from your chemist and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum to prove
this. Apply this simple and harmless lotion
for a few nights to the hair with a small
sponge, and the greyness will gradually dis-
appear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in pos-
session of (lie formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent London beauty
specialist: “The slimy egg cannot dissolve
the scalp impurities, but only adds to the
trouble by completely choking the pores with
animal matter.” The substance sticks, de-
composes. thereby causing the hair to assume
a dead, “dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap
too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair,
will clear and prevent dandruff, and leave
that fine fluffy effect so much sought after.
It also removes excess oil or greasiness. [1
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, if In
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The Kemp Saddle
AS USED BY
PROFESSOR KEMP
OF
BUCK JUMPING FAME.
In this saddle it is impossible for rider to
be thrown on to head of saddle, while it
also has all the benefits of stock kneepads
without their disadvantages. See how the pads are brought
high up, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts are
made in one piece of kip leather, making a wonderfully
comfortable seat. The fittings included are Solid Nickel
SB Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£B/15/ - Complete, or £B/5/ - without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Cash with order.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS, gTJgSffff iTSUT; SYDNEY.
The “Bulletin"
Stock Saddle
AND
The “Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddle* we make
they both have pigskin seat, the “Q«-
panel, with leather down sides, |„„„ fl an
girth straps They are hoik htted »
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
Compute,
£6/15/6 without Stirrups.
£6/9/6
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle,
Freight free for cash to any port or railway static
in N. S. Wales. ' atlon
RTXGHEAI) BRIDLE, 13/6; post, 1/.
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, ftd.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT GOLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effedive and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
f,3F.
m
%
PwO
3
S'
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 3, 1917.
Ist Prize, value £O5O. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. C. Loughton Shipley,
Rlackheath, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILTJNO.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1917.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in The Uci.letin
on Thursday, November 8, 19X7. To any person forward-
ing stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets mav be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
from ARTHUR V. YAGER, Secretary. Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney,
(hem e( ~ v
Fairfax
SOyexns a<{o r
r%
♦
Fine Diamond?,
set in Platinum,
£lO/10/-
6 Fine Diamonds
and one Whole
Pearl,
£lO/10/-
5 Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l2/12/-
3 Fine Diamonds
set in Platinum,
£2O.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sytfney.
23 (SL 25 HUNTER STRE^
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
K.P.: “Kismet” well enough written, but
rather too technical.... Gumboot: The song as quoted
by “B.Bv" ran:—
I’d be like Plunger Thompson
And give a champagne dinner
To all my friends who’re here to-night
Could i only back a winner.
The whole question is what Thompson was it? You
say it wasn’t Thompson, but Oxenliam. Then the
quarrel is between you and “8.8.’5” memory....
G.E.S. (India) : Don’t know the right or wrong of
the internment of Mrs. Besant, and the clippings
forwarded are not illuminating. Anyway, the door
is open for her n0w.... Jewba: Prince of Wales
story is old; other is interesting par. You should
be able to pick up some good ones... . A.C.W.: A
good idea in that verse, but you were in too great a
hurry to get it posted. Try again.... Skeeter: Yes,
any time.... Sandalwood: Will read any contribu-
tion. .. .W.J.D.: Clear as mud.... Mac: Stale now.
. ...H.A.W.: Thanks, but no use to us....Lincus
Vinous: If you’re under 10 it’s promising.!..
Smaillijwc: The composition is as bad as the hand-
writing ; and that looks as if it had been done by
a sick cow while running to catch the mail....
•T.D.: Correct, grammatical versos: but they say
nothing at a 11... .H.Y.F.: Get a pen and something
to say and then learn how to say it. .. .H.W.S.:
That “Send Your Sons” refrain is striking, but the
setting isn't good. .. .A.J.: Poor stuff. . . .L.G.:
Horrible. .. .Lyre: Nothing fresh in it.... Ah Gee:
“The Hoarding” hasn’t enough blood and bones....
Lyrebird: Yerses commonplace and moderately cor-
rect... .Lord Bill: Not thrilling. .. .Wattle: If
that’s a first try you might do better. Keep away
from the worn track and don't use lame proverbs to
eke out far better ideas. .. .P.W. Not enough in it.
.... Uloo: Try a verse form that doesn’t need con-
tinual patching up with commonplace tags....
Scratch: N0....A.C.: Not for us. .. .G.F.E.: “Noc-
turne” doesn’t get anywhere... .L.T. “East Lynne”
verse very bumpy and tedious... .L.G.: “Gardens”
misses by miles... .E.W.D.: No use to u 5....
E.J.A.J.: Fair verse to put in the lady’s album, if
the lady isn’t very particular... .R. 8.: Yerse not up.
. ...G.V.N.: Dreary stuff with a sprinkling of false
rhymes... .1.H.L.5.: Lamentable.... Private George:
Small idea, much overworked, in fair verse....
J.J.S.: Not quite... .H.P.T.: Horrible E.C.: Not
well enough done... .G.A.IL: Take the dreary thing
away....P.W.Tl.: That allegorical stuff is irritating.
Yerse not up... .R..T.A.: Alphabetical rhymes don’t
appeal to us... .F.J.F.: “Business Pride” misses....
•T.C.F.: Goes heavily A.H.C.: No.... Mag: Win-
dows are off M.8.P.: Not up M.N.: No; for
the second time... .1.V.8.: Verse accepted is paid
for First Try: Nothing in it A.P.: Thin,
commonplace stuff without force or skill... .M.S.:
Won’t do. .. .H.C.J.L.: “We think pur gods, and so
our gods are made.” That’s a good line. The rest is
muddy Retired: Too weak and lumpy... .A.H.:
The “gully” doesn’t seem an attractive place.. . .
11.C.K.: Couldn’t you throw it at the Kaiser?....
E S.H.: As you are 13 we spare you, but it’s an
unlucky number Johnny-the-boy: Did you want
to say anything at all? H.T.8.: Nothing
8.D.: Won’t do Gullabong: Not our style....
Charity Worker: No use Myall: You should be
able to sell “Black Dog” somewhere e15e....0y0:
Not up... .A.C.W.: Don’t like them J.D.S. :
Workmanship too crude,.. .D.D.: No use.... J.D.8.:
The spirit’s ail right'; the verse isn’t Bellerive:
There’s human sympathy in that:—
Before a police officer’s gaze
A clerk turned deadly pale;
Twas the man who’d hunted him down,
Whose evidence sent him to gaol;
Awe-stricken he bowed he's head.
_ He feared exposure and shame.
Irom the lips of the hardened one,
The man who knew he’s real name:
“Spare me,” did whisper the clerk,
I’m leading an horn st life.
I suffered and served my term.
God help my children and wife.”
You paid for your reckless crime,
The detective did softly say.
Keep to the honest path
And your secret I’ll never betray.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTH )
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.J.: Crude drawing and the gag has been used
before. .. .C.M.8.: Idea isn’t much better than the
drawing... .F.D.: Why is the barman’s head so flat ?
.. . .5.8.: It has been said, written and sung. Also,
the drawing is out in various ways Ada C.: Salad
old. Drawing too new D.K.: Too crude. But
you’ve got plenty of time to learn, and prcbablv will.
R.J.: Gag won't carry the collapsed drunk
A.N.: Very blue and flat... .Reeba: Practise; the
promise in your drawing is worth it....Drif: Not
this time. More study required... ..James S.:
Immature P. 8.: Don't like their large fat heads.
“M.P.A.”: Now that China has joined the
Allies, Java is the only considerable spot in
“the East” where the Hun flag braves the
infrequent breeze. The rag hangs outside
the German Consulate in a side street in
Weltevreden; in pre-war times it flicked a
flagpole in front of a palatial residence in
a fine thoroughfare. The Union Jack is a
conspicuous splash of color amongst the
dingy warehouses fronting the canal at
Batavia, the old town adjoining Weltevreden,
the headquarters of British trade. Of the
four daily newspapers published thereabouts
one is pro-Allies, another pro-German, and
the rest remember that they are Dutch.
Travelling through the island one finds the
Java Dutchman hasn't much to say about
the war —to the stranger, at any rate—
though it is generally conceded that
the civil community is pro-Allies and
the circulation of the pro-Allies daily.
News of the Day, edited by Van
Loon, goes to substantiate this. On the
other hand, the military official party has
Hunnish sympathies. The civil population
has always supported the efforts of the small
English and French colonies to raise money
for the Red Cross, and many thousands of
guilders have been raked together since the
strife began. The British in Java run to
about 300. about 90 per cent, of them
Scotch. There is the merest sprinkling of
French. But despite the fact that the Java
Dutchman-in-the-street declares for the
Allies, there is no affection for the British;
and some of our consuls and the chappie
from the Cold Country don’t improve mat-
ters. The climate or something has the
habit of producing rare examples of the snob
amongst _the clerks who add the guilders in
the British houses.


RECORDS
are always reliable
Autographic Kodak snapshots of people,
places and events can be identified im-
mediately at any future time, and will
recall to your mind every detail concerning
each picture. Thus they have special
merit as records.
You should take Kodak pictures of every-
th ino- worth remembering.
The 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is extremely
popular and takes splendid postcard pictures— x 3J
inches.* Price £5 10/“
There are other Autographic Kodaks from 30/= to £l5/2/ = ,
and each one is very easy to use. Everything can be
done in daylight—from putting the spool of film into the
Kodak to finishing the picture.
Ask for the latest Kodak catalogue.
■
i
Of all Kodak dealers and « .
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block” 284 Collins St.,Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba
Theatre), Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Kuthven
St.. Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346
Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner Tampton Qnay £»nd Willis St.,
Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
•n*'
L i
*
jf
.
%
IPS
* -■ ■
c
s®
W&WJ.
w, ! :
T '
mmm. ■..
emmm
*£©£*' " *• ••"
S3T
%
• y. j
&Ww-*
•**,v;
t
mmm
mi',j
Id
JSS’S
K ; *. :s Mr‘ : v..'ii.::.
,rV
FOR beauty alone you
probably would
choose the Hupmobile.
But you want more
than beauty.
And the Hupmobile
gives you perfect per-
formance.
Also the added value of
quality and the weight
of a good reputation.
All of these points are
of first importance in
selecting a car.
The marh of superior
motor car'Service
Hupmobile
Brief Hupmobile Specifications.
HUPMOBILE MODELS: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater. Motor: Four cylinder, 95 m/m
bore, 140 m/m stroke (3Jin. x s*in.). Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on
7-seater). Tyres, 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater. 920 x 120 m/m or 35in.
x 41in. on 7-seater. non-skid tyres on all rear wheels. Fully equipped with electric starting
and* lighting system, wind screen, hood, side curtains, door-curtain carriers, speedometer,
robe rail, foot rail, carpet in tonneau, five demountable ritus. tyre carrier, pump, jack and
full set of tools—Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki hood and seat covers
at small additional cost over list price of car.
s=Seater- Wheel Base 119 inches.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
T. PHTZ\CKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD.. Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PFKENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth,
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart. Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
liupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.— Cabh Address: “HUPP DETROIT”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
orivate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4240, 2,4, 6 Spring Street.
_____ 481 °* Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):-
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
*ROCIvHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) 1
MACKAY f
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
MELBOURNE i
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports) I
FOR MOVEMENTS
OF STEAMERS SEE
DAILY PAPERS.
‘Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking;, Public Companies, Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WEI.SBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Bir ALI RED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman);
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. AIACARTNEY, M.L.A :
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A J
THY r NNE, M.L.C. '
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES. '
agents THROUGHOUT the world.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ~ .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,09U669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq.
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.: James
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
(Chairman) ;
Love, Esq. ;
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - . - BRISBANE.
Branches—Condon, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Qimited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,940,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,940,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq
Honorary Director; Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager; H. H. MasSie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birehin Lane, E.c!
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITSSL/SS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
G
EORGE
St. Hilda,
HOTEL,
Mel bourns.
J.argrest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER. VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU, o?, e he p Pactc e
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS-
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting 1 Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEYEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ~ 9 Bridge Street.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
Director!:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKeiiar, K.C.M.G.
iI.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery" C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditor s; A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office —George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedlo St E c
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji. Papua and London •
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cahle remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills neea,
tinted and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
RTTSSELT, FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
JBank° f ßustmKa
! SYDNEY. .
fSfV.I General Banking Business
Cities and Towns of Australia. London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
< '*^?.„ remittances nia de to. and drafts drawn on foreisrn places dirpot r™™
bills negotiated and collected Letters of credit issuedtoanrpartof' the worW
Bank wpflth niJ n E i^o!i a, ir e ® UBlnes ® of eve p description transacted within the Common-
atinst ° P ~ d - > aid «
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at g»°/
per annum '*/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Barings Bank Facilities
JAMES HU, Pap.tr GOTcrnor. tUt TON MILLER. Oo „ rtiur
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY. Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOQD, Esq. s HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN. Esq. : Hon. F
JAGO SMITH. M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES;
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brows.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales'
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
CAPILLARINE
<r
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
power. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street. SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPGO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and f
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA
S.S. RUPARA
S.S. PARINGA
SAILINGS CANCELLED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchain,
the first Port of call with other Inter Shu * 3fter
on all services subject to e<LS 3 St^ i ? ,, ' M,lip '
■ scertained on application at the Co.npany s Offle U
O. S. TUIU * CO.. I/i d Ce
Age,ltg - C I!,i,IJ GK STREET. SYDNEY
Hviddart Parker Line
a * n ™*i£EE&C*
7000 tons, sails every four weeks from' c..,i
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia aifrl Mel '
as advertised in daily newspapers i,ld Vlce •«*,
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melhn„J ,
New Zealand ports and vice versa - nartienk 1°
be obtained on application. ' to
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbournp a
Launceston twice weekly. oUrne an(l
For full particulars, applv
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
americ a—c ana D b
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION
Apply:— OCE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
DIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD. HAMILTON & 'CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH A CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
1 WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINOEIi,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COM'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction
uilli
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-ciass rail to BUI So An m
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillunwan,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company 8 up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage o
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and riji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should * g
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steamers' ?
all up-to date arrangements for convenience
fort, making travel safe, easy and P ieasan . l \ are
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Ticket
interchangeable with all Interstate Comp ->
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the J we
particulars on application. For dates o
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents. 11 BRIDGE STREET, sVDNE*-
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British - ‘ er
asian, 6d. weekly— an illustrated
• ontaining mail and cable news Eu ‘ rope
tralia and news of Australians in j„.
and at home. Australians are c 0 c , SIA s
vited to visit the British
Reading Room at the Offices. lln B the
born, London, W.C, where they can see
home papers, meet _ their friends,
telephone, and obtain information
charge.


A. Saunders’
edge Bar
pure double-cut diamond, knife-
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklace, set pearls and
aquamarines or tourmalines,
£2/10/-. Set diamonds
and aquamarines or tour-
malines, 15ct. gold,
£5/15/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Battalion Ring, any
colors supplied, f»ot.
gold, 25/-. Lady’s
size, 21 /-
A. Saunders’ Links,
daintily engraved, 9ct.
gold, 10/6.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
Safety Tie Pin
3/6, 4/6,
5/6, accord
ing to size.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring. 18ot. gold,
£10.
Larger diamonds,
£12/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Amethyst set Ring,
9ct. gold, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Sil-
ver Hunting Keyless Lever
Watch, full jewelled. £2.
Heavier case, 50/-. Gold-filled
Elgin or Waltham, £4/4/-,
£5/5/-, £6/6/-. 9ct.
gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
14ct. gold, £8/10/- 18ct.
gold, £10.
A. Saunders’ Wishbone • and
Battalion-color Brooch, any
Battalion colors supplied, 9ct.
gold, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set with pearls and
aquamarines or garnets,
10/6.
ALL ORDERS POST FREE
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle and Spray
Brooch, 15ot. gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bracelet, set with Amethyst,
35/-
A. Saunders' pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
J5ct. sold,
SPECIAL VALUE, £3.
A. Saunders’ Curb Snap
strong safety chain, 9ct.
30/-, £2, £2/10/-,
Padlock Bangle, with
gold, £3. Other sizes,
£3/10/-,£4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ Nellie Stewart Bangle, secret snap, 9ct. gold,
£2. Others, 30/-, £2/10/-, £3. 15ct. gold, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Luminous Radium Dial Wristlet Watch,
metal or nickel case, jewelled movement, 25/-
quality, 30/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. Solid
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
gun-
Extra.
gold,
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 GEORGE STREET ‘"""SoS* 1 '"" SYDNEY,
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond Bar
Brooch, loct. gold, £5.
A. Saunders Lady’s
Hand-clasp Ring
9ct. gold, 20/-
Isct., 25/-
18ct„ 30/-
A. Saunders’ Links,
daintilv engraved, 9ct.
gold, 20/-. 15ct., 35/
A. Saunders'
Necklace, set
Aquamarines or
Tourmalines,
9ct. gold. 37/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. solid
Gold, Half-hunting Keyless
Lever Watch, full jewelled,
compensation balance,
14et. gold, £5/10/-. 18ct.
gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set with pearls and
aquamarine or ruby,
25/-
A. Saunders’
pure double-cut
Diamond Half-
hoop Ring,
18ct., gold,
£7/10/-.
Smaller dia-
monds, £5.
A. Saunders’
red or blue
stone set Ring,
9ct., gold,
10/6.
A. Saunders’
9ct. gold Safety
Tie Pin,
3/6, 4/6,
5/6, accord-
ing to size.
A. Saunders’ Boomerang and
Battalion-color Brooch, any Bat-
talion colors supplied, Oct. gold,
8/6.
LaiaFJ
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4t/-
and upwards: Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manages.
ON ALL OCCASIONS
when you may require a specially strong antiseptic Soap—for
instance, to protect yourself against mosquitoes and other insects,
or to antiseptically cleanse their bites —use
CALVERTS
20% Carbolic Soap.
Use a light lather only, that is all you need with a Soap like this,
which contains such a large proportion of Carbolic.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers. Each tablet in metal box.
Makers: F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester, England.
BOOKS AT AUSTRALIA’S BIG BOOK STORE
I Will Get You Any Book You Require.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH .
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS —LOVE, BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc.,
with full directions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to Win at Cards
1/3. Metal-working fob Amateurs. Soldering. Brazing, Gasfitting, &c., 1/6
posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated. 1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-.
posted 1/3. Camille, 1/6 posted. How to \ amp on Piano, 1/-. liano Tdm. g
and Repairing. 1/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyles Card Games (Rules
for all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise. 1/6 Man from
Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic, 1/3. Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, /-.
The Doctor (Cures for all Diseases). 1/.T posted Letter-writer Up-to-date 1/b
posted Speeches & Toasts, Public Sneaking Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly
Gang of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; posted 1/2 Electricity
mldf Simple (new). 5/-. Self-Instructor: Every Man llis Own School-
master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handybook,l/6. Book-keep-
ing. 2/6. Life of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. Parlor Magic, l/-posted. llo\\ Mcl ol-
(3all Topped the Score. & Other N erses, 1/3. French Self Taught, 1/2. H an-
nan’s Engine-Driver’s Guide. 5/6 posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6.
Decameron of Boccaccio. Heptameron. and many others, all at 3/6 each posted.
Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted. Women’s Secrets, V- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted. The NYoman of Fire, 2/-. Send a trial order NOW.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save your cash. 25 Years.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1/6 posted. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/3. Sappho, genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry, 1/5. Guide
to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret History Court of England, 1/6 posted. Lovers’
Letter Writer, 1/-. At.t, About Incubators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry Ex-
posed. Key tp- all Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
lOd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d., 2/-. How to Read
Heads (Jas. Cpates), 1/6 posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, '3/6"posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers' Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s
Handbook', 1/2 posted. Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted. Fruits
of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervous-
ness and Its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700
pages, 1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 16/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3. Moore’s
Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth bound, 11/6
posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200 Old-Time Songs (words
and music complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted 9d.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this Advt,
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the AsKing.
REMIT IN STAMPS. MONET ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN. r *
Contracts hare been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
Missing Friends.
fjl DWARD PARRY JONES, last heard
J of in San Francisco. Information
wanted re whereabouts. Himself or friends
requested to write Mrs. Edward Jones. Gully
Road, Oakleigh, Vic., Aust. Father dead.
RESIDE and DINE at
The
Australia
Hotel,
SYDNEY
Suites
de luxe.
Rooms with
Bath & Balcony.
European or
American Plan.
Private
Safe Deposit
Spacious
Winter Carden,
Cuisine
par excellence.
Grill Rooms
a la carte.
Afternoon Teas
and Suppers.
Recherche
Dinners
Weddings
Catered for.
: THE MANAGER*
Address
THE GRANT SIX
A GRAND SlX—£39o
\ GRANT SIX owner writes:
“In regard to the running
of the ear, I ‘hinU >ou are
well justified in calling
•GRAXI) SIX.' I h are foU
it so. . .
“Recently I had occasion *,
do 57 miles after an in*’ l *
a half of rain in the Bla™
Soil Plains. I found one
bogged and abandoned,
another started 01 jhj«xT
turned back. My G****,'
however, went throng .
was the only ear to do
trip that day. .
“Last week I loaded 1
GRANT with Bcwt. of g°
and did 40 miles in g f
style.”
Telephone: City M& 2
Marcus Clarß & Co. Ltd.
GARAGE and
SHOWROOMS
162 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
Andrew Fisher, accidentally killed at
Blackall last week, aged 78, was an Indian
Mutiny veteran. He was orderly to Colonel
Alexander Leith Has for many years.
Passed out at 74, D. R. Eden, Brisbane's
best-known and oldest practising dentist. Fie
had a good deal of experience as a tooth-
smith before migrating from London to
Sydney in ’66. Shortly afterwards he hung
out his sign permanently in Brisbane, and
bad asking “Did that hurt?” ever since.
He was a recognised Australian authority
f>n dental surgery, did much solid work in
Brisbane Hospital, and was the first local
manufacturer of “laughing gas.”
•John Huxham was given a run for the
Labor endorsement for Buranda by a blind
man named Joseph Dunne, but the Home
Sec. won by 64 to 11. The unusual spectacle
of a Minister having to scrap for his perch
was the sequel to a squabble in the Blind
Institution. Dunne was sacked for some
alleged insubordination or “misplaced enthu-
siasm” ; whereupon victimisation was
alleged. Huxham, as the Minister in charge,
refused, however, to interfere. So the blind
man tried to interfere with Iluxham. Though
he failed he may be heard of again, for he is
a fine speaker with an extensive knowledge
of the I>abor movement.
One of the best bluffs a quick-witted Aus-
tralian ever put up won the Military Medal
for Sergeant Buchanan, a nervy Banana-
lander who got back from France last week.
Months ago he disced into a German dug-out
and found himself faced by 15 Huns. Hold-
ing aloft a glistening “bomb,” he yelled to
them to get back to the Australian line.
The string scuttled out gratefully and never
knew their captor had put the fear of the
lx>rd into them with a bottle of their own
iodine he had picked up as he raced forward '
NAUTICAL TERMINOLOGY.
MINISTER : “I once performed three wedding ceremonies in twelve minutes.”
MISS SAYLOR : “Oh, that’s going the pace—fifteen knots an hour.”
Late Mt. Morganaire D'Arcy’s estate has
been sworn in London at £984,000. He was
a solicitor at Rockhampton when luck came
his way.
Matrimonial ad. from a Brisbane paper:
Mechanic, 33, with means, wishes correspond lady,
from country, German descent, view matrimony.
, G.P.0., Brisbane.
“I want you, ma Hunny, yes I do!”
The Miscellaneous Workers’ Union has
got an award from the Industrial Court
which is causing weeping and gnashing of
teeth in the tents of the godly. Vergers,
who hitherto have been paid about 15s. a
week for scrubbing churches on Saturday
afternoons and chasing dogs out of them on
Sundays, are classed as “caretakers” under
the award, and must be paid £3 Bs. 6d., if
no quarters are provided, with double time
on Sundays and holidays. It’s about up to
the clergy to get an award for themselves,
or else to be their own vergers and prosecute
the congregation if it pays them less than
caretakers’ rates. There’s many a Queens-
land parson who doesn’t make £3 Bs. 6d. a
week.
Afternoon: Moreton Bay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If in my Hampton garden I could be
Again to-night
The paler southern moonlight there to see,
The lily path’s white purity
Gliifimering unto the limit of the sight,
The still air breathing-in the jonquils’
scent,
The million banksias round the pine-tree
bent,
And in that southern garden I could see
The pampas-grass all plumed and
feathery!
If in that southern garden I could see
Again to-nigbt—
Gould feel the little breezes crisp and free
Throw down the powdered wattle-gold to me
Fragrant and bright—
Mine would be great content if I could feel
The southern softness for this northern steel,
The damp Spring days for this bright north-
ern fire,
The quiet dove-note for the west wind’s
lyre,
If sleeping ti-trees and their dappled light
Were mine to-night!
QUEENSLAND.
IMOGEN BEDFORD.
“Bill Bowyang”: “Boro Belle” (B.
17/5/T7) is right when he says that the
islafids on the N.Q. coast from Broadsound
up offer splendid opportunities for fruit and
vegetable farming. At present most of the
larger specks carry jumbucks. The total
absence of footrot paeans much to the sheep-
farmer, and the wool is generally cleaner
than that on- the mainland. But I disagree
with “Boro Belle” about millions of feet of
pine being available. So far as the Whit-
sunday Group is concerned, Jack YVithnall,
who had a sawmill on the island the group
is named after, had to close down owing to
scarcity of timber. Certainly there is good
pine on the summit of the mountain which
forms Whitsjinday Island, but it is impossi-
ble to slide it down from the boulder-strewn
heights without reducing it to matchwood.
Before I began arguing the point with Abdul
I worked amot.gst the Group and made
wages turtle-fishing and sending an occa-
sional raft of pine to Rooney’s mill at
Townsville; but the logs took a lot of col-
lecting.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 22; 1917.
My Dear Tuargomindah,—
His Ex. is still opening Shows. His last
was at Wvnnum, whither he was accom-
panied by Minister for Agriculture Lennon
and his charming wife.
I never knew before that men were such
scandal-chatterers! This time their tongues
are busy about the recent purchase by the
Government of Wando Yale station. I sup-
pose we’ll know more about it directly, for
there is to be an inquiry.
Meanwhile we’re in the throes of a new
recruiting campaign. This is the way of it.
First, an open letter addressed to some
firm or Government department appears in
the newspapers announcing that at a given
time a recruiting-officer and a bugler will be
on the doorstep, and will remain in the hope
that a certain number of recruits will
answer the bugle-calls, which will occur
every quarter of an hour. If the required
number of volunteers are not forthcoming a
squad of Boy Scouts armed with kettle-
drums will serenade the premises a few days
later. I hope the Kaiser doesn’t get to
hear of this scheme, or he’ll make no bones
about stealing it to raise another division or
two to give his tired-outs at the Front a
spell.
Lieut. McLean, an Ipswich boy who was
in the Lands Department in pre-war days,
has been cordially handed a Military Cross.
Another Queenslander who has distinguished
himself is Pte. Kevin O’Neill, who was the
first soldier to enlist in the Glastonbury dis-
trict. He has got the Military Medal. By
the way, Private Billy Glasson, owner of
Warkon station, and Harry Winton, another
member of the squattocracy, were, at latest,
serving with motor transport amongst the
Varied muds of Flanders. There’s a line
through, too, concerning Major Hodges, an
old-boy of Maryborough Grammar. He wore
one star when he departed with the first con-
tingent. Now, in addition to his majority,
he has a D.S.O. which was awarded him for
“keeping his guns in action despite destroyed
Infantry 9 " 11 * hUS ClEe<!tiv ' lJ,
Mrs. J. C. Robertson tea-ed the ■
tees of the 9th and 49th Battalion (w m ‘
Funds at the Coo-ee Cafe on Monday S
noon. Her husband, Brig.-Generaf Row/
sun. was major of the 9th when he left lm-!
Following the movement that is
around Australia, we. have formed a nU, 8
dren’s Welfare Association, and hope Soon I'
start clinics for mothers, both before
after the arrival of baby, and do a few ot l nd
useful things towards making up for T'
dire loss of good citizens in the last th
years.
Mrs. H. G. Wheeler, a Central Banam
lander now living in London, is doin<>
did work for Billjim. She makes up"p ar ,li
and sends them to the boys at the Front
receives and forwards parcels sent by parent
and friends; writes regularly to Bananaland
ers in the trenches; cables relatives as to the
progress and whereabouts of wounded men-
forwards comforts and money to any that arc
taken prisoner; visits the sick and wounded
in London hospitals; distributes cash sent
from Australia to individual soldiers- and
welcomes Billjim on leave at her own home
Every mail she writes long letters to a Rock-
hampton friend, giving all the news she can
get, and these letters are published in the
local press. She has devoted her own in-
come to the work. Now some local
people are giving her a hand financially, and
good sums are being subscribed and’ for-
warded to her, to expend as she may deem
best. Money sent to Miss Mary Trotman.
Rockhampton, for Mrs. Wheeler’s Soldiers'
Fund will be forwarded at once.
Back to Bananaland comes Lieut.-Col. .1.
B. McLean. D. 5.0., a Victorian-born doctor
who was superintendent of Brisbane Hos-
pital when Wilhelm turned Europe into a
casualty ward. McLean lef£ as major with
the first hospital ship, and was mentioned
in despatches for his work in Egypt and
France. He is an old Scotch College boy.
but was only able to just look in at Mel-
bourne on his return.
Dr. Albert Dunlop, of Queensland, went
south a few years ago and built one of the
picturesque homes that perch on the crags
of Wollstonecraft. His estate, valued at
over £20,000, goes to his widow and family,
Both sons have been in the firing-line, and
one was severely wounded a while ago.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JAKE.
Returned Billjim threatens to go in exten-
sively for poultry raising in Bananaland.
Twenty-seven returned soldiers have already
entered Gatton Agricultural College to be
trained, and arrangements have been made
for the resumption under the Discharged
Soldiers’ Settlement Act of 268 acres at
Yeerongpilly, close to Brisbane, for the
establishment of farms. The land will be
subdivided into suitable areas and birds to
stock the holdings will be bred at the college
and handed over to Billjim at minimum
cost.
Bananaland Government is pushing ahead
with its forestry scheme. Each land-
ranger’s district, if the resources warrant
it. is to have a resident forester. Stations
have already been established at Fraser
Island and at Atherton. But Imbil. in the
Brooloo area, is to be the chief establish-
ment : experiments and nursery operations
are to be carried out there, and in addition
it will be a sort of incubator for hatching
foresters and other officers.


Motor Grs
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
HU
K
St v
1
■
■
Overland Light Four-Cylinder Touring Car
rm,
HI
■I
Overland “Country Clu^
A New Achievement—and
Its Value to You
From motor cars that emphasize the
utmost economy without sacrifice of
quality, to the very highest type of car
in the luxurious class, virtually every
size and type of motor car is represented
in the Willys-Overland group of models.
This is a new achievement in the
motor car industry.
Its has necessarily
been gradual, involving as it did the
accumulation of vast resources, exten-
sive physical properties, an. enormous
amount of equipment and the training
of a huge organization.
This has been distinctly a Willys-
Overland aim and achievement.
From the beginning the policy has
been the quantity production of motor
cars of quality.
It has been a steadfast policy to
share the economies and advantages of
quantity production with buyers of
Willys-Overland motor cars.
Heretofore this policy has benefited
certain classes of buyers only. But now
there is a quality motor car in the
Willys-Overland group for every class of
buyer.
Straight through from top to bottom,
quality considered with price, will show
you values in every class, possible only
as the result of this consummation of
Overland plans.
One executive organization,
—one factory management,
—one purchasing unit,
*—one sales management,
—one dealer organization, produce
and sell all of these models.
Enormous economies thus effected
are thus distributed so that every motor
car shares proportionately.
Any buyers of Willys-Overland
cars regardless of class, save materially.
See the Willys-Overland cars first.
Let us show them to you today.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE;
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
“ Country Club”
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
LTD.. Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
KELLOW EALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z. . . . «. -
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z ■
HEATHORN & CO., Hobart & Launceston.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
The Willys-Overland Company Toledo, Ohio, 11. S. A.
Manulactuiers of Willys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
and Light Lorries


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
-'nd Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dosa—Small Prlca.
GENUINE must bear signature
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE-, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO ana OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
The Secret of a Long,
Happy Life.
A TREATISE of priceless value written by a
specialist in the treatment of stomach and bowel
troubles has just been published, explaining the
Causes, Effects and Treatment of Constipation.
It tells how Nature will restore your birthright
of Health, Success and Happiness without the use
of medicines, injections, special foods, laborious exer-
cise or apparatus.
Elbert Hubbard says: “In the race of life the
man with educated bowels will eclipse the man with
an educated brain.”
FREE TO ALL WHO DESIRE IT.
This enlightening work —the result of years of
experience and study—will be sent you bv return
mail absolutely free. Write to-day. ' Enclose 2d.
postage.
J. P. GALE,
329 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres:
•22
•280
•303
ALGOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
\
/
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
CalverKi
jCARBOUCty
106% Powder
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO,
Manchester, Eng.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
m
wS»
i
-TT -
sa
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been §
honoured by "
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Vhosferim
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely agedNe w Life and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stablea, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
"1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons’ Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.’
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES, M.D.. C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Mean. Ashton |Jfc Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate tout courtesy l : if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street
y.iiwi»w l the genuine article will be sent in iits place, and thejcott of postage
refunded to you.
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
comes into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
evidence. So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new’ Bostock styles
for.the season, since these are more captivating*
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent leather, made in
that new, short-fronted French shape which
makes every foot look so arched and delightful,
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling finish
to one’s new walking suit or gown. And it’is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable.
Bostock styles now on view at the leading stores
Bostoek No.
Q 9583
None genuine j
unless stamped J
“Bostock.” j
«no
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the name “Bostock” on the soles.
-2
Produced entirely under
the British Flag
m 99
Underwear
Made in England from fine Australasian Wool, Jason Underwear
gives greater comfort than any other you ever wore.
New “Olympic" Brand
l^e prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are
„ ’, e manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
Vn„ r j taf ? e °* ?° ttoa —bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular lines.
*our dealer will supply you. Sole manufacturers
J AS? N UNDERWEAR CO.. LEICESTER. ENG.
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Til?
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques. (^li |^ u ] ( j be
and all business communications Georg( ,
addressed to The Manager,
Street. Sydney.
This conies to The Bulletin, unsigned, in
a characteristically Teutonic fist, from the
German Concentration Camp at Holds-
worthy (N.S.W.) :
A big thing in Outback photography is
about to start from Adelaide, and possibly
go right across the Continent. Australian
Films, Limited, is in it; So is Syd Kidman ;
so is the Australian Air Squadrons Fund.
Horses and motors and (where necessary)
camels are to take the expedition round
Kidman’s various stations, and get pictures
of buckjumping and various dealings with
stock; also of hunting the kangaroo and
(with any luck) the buffalo. The films
should have a world-wide attraction, and
profits are to buy fighting aeroplanes.
Blushful occurrence in a Melbourne
weekly :
Tlie bride’s exquisite trousseau was displayed in
two bedrooms. A more beautiful collection of elab-
orate underwear in white and pale pink crdpe de
chine inlet with fine lace has rarely been seen.
Exquisite rest gowns, jackets and matinee caps, with
some delicately fine lingerie and undergarments, were
amongst the silken attractions. Among the guests
were Mr. and his young son, Mr. and Mrs. ,
General .
However, the General took his wife, too,
and so did most of the other fellows, so that
was all right. Still, there used to be a
time when —but no matter.
The old and interesting idea of an' east-
ern suburban railway has been cropping up
again in Adelaide, where there is not a yard
of such line from Glen Osmond on the south-
east right round to Enfield on the north.
The commission lately sitting on the North
Terrace Reserves question is strong for
making the present terminus there cease to
'be a dead-end. The idea is to push out just
below and behind Government House, make
use of the Botanic PaTk, and follow the flat
through East Adelaide up the course of the
Torrens. This means facing the awkward
gradients of the Torrens Gorge if the line
is to go further, and the Railways Standing
Committee does not at present fancy it,
preferring to reach the Gumeracha district
by a branch from the existing North line,
and let the suburbs be catered for by tram-
lines, as at present.
During the election campaign Hughes’s
stock reply to arguments against the Phew-
sion was that the person who advanced them
was a disloyalist and a member of the
I.W.W. One man who suffered thus was P.
H. Hickey, a union organiser. Hughes
that Hickey was “a member of
the I.W.W. and proud of it.” This helped
Hughes to his glorious victory ; but Hickey
carried the matter further, with the result
that Hughes, the Bendigo Independent.
the Bendigo ’Tiser, the Echuca and
Moama ’Tiser, the Kyneton Guardian
and the Age have all had to apologise to
Hickey and pay costs. When a reckless
mudslinger of the Hughes type has charge
of a campaign, it is only to be expected that
little troubles such as these should follow
famous victories. All the same, Victorian
papers will be careful in future how they
report the Prime Minister. N. S. Wales
papers, knowing him better, were careful
already.
“Ivan Pentland” : Just-deceased Earl Grey,
one time Gov.-General of Canada, had two
hobbies —proportional representation and re-
form of the pub on “disinterested manage-
ment” lines. When in Australia just before
the war he spoke on the former subject at
a meeting in Sydney Town Hall; but the
only sign which he gave of his other hobby
was to bestow his blessing, through Mel-
bourne Age, on a scheme of “constructive
temperance reform” similar to his own,
which the Age’s chief of staff, L. V. Biggs,
was then trying to persuade Anglicans in
that city to adopt. Grey was a director of
two companies in the Cold Country—-the
Home Counties Public House Trust and
the People’s Refreshment House Association
—which buy up all the pubs they can, and
run them under “disinterested management”
as places of rational recreation. The man-
agers are paid a fixed salary, with commis-
sion on tea, coffee, soft stuff and meals sup-
plied, but have no interest in the sale of
booze. Writer was sent to call on Grey in
Sydney and get him to talk on the subject
for publication. Grey dodged an interview
on the plea of urgent engagements; but next
morning the pressman received a letter
apologising, and hoping that “the enclosed”
would give him what lie wanted. Enclosed
were the latest reports of the two English
“reformed pub” companies, with a sheet of
MS. notes explaining the points which he
thought would be of most use in putting
together a “special” on the subject.
WHY?
The last rays of the setting- sun adorned the
western sky,
And crowned the clouds with burnished gold, bid-
ding the day good-bye,
I stood and watched this glorious sight, as slowly,
one by one,
The clouds grew darker and the night obscured the
horizon;
“Peace be on Earth” seemed written by myriad
stars on high,
But sadness filled my aching heart, and I wondered,
wondered Why ?
I wondered why a wire fence made vile what once
was fair,
And filled so many loving hearts with grief and
with despair,
While other hearts turned into stone through greed
and burning hate,
And caused our bounteous Mother Earth to be so
desolate,
Where every flower and each tree spells life and
peace and joy,
The wherewithals of Paradise —and I wondered, won-
dered Why ?
And then a longing gripped my heart to plunge
myself with might
Away from this sepulchral calm into the blackest
night—
To fight for Truth and Liberty, with all my heart
and soul,
For Light, for Right and Justice, until I’ve reached
my goal;
The Dawn of Freedom to behold —-thus would 1 love
to die.
Perhaps beyond those silent stars I’ll find the
reason Why ?


COMMONWEALTH
OF AUSTRALIA.
a,H,ODO 4t per cent WIN LOIN, W.
SUBSCRIPTION LIST CLOSES 2nd NOVEMBER, 1917.
The Loan is for WAR purposes only.
BONDS will be issued in amounts of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO, payable to bearer.
STOCK will be inscribed in amounts of £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO. and transfers will
be Fit EE of all STAMP DUTY.
®ONDB and INSCRIBED STOCK will be exempt from the operation of
Wealth Levy, if any, and will be accepted at par in payment of Probate and Succession l)utv
due to the Commonwealth.
INTEREST is payable half-yearly, is FREE of STATE and COMMONWEALTH INCOME TAX,
is payable free of exchange at any Bank or State Savings Bank.
THE COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA is authorised on behalf of the TREASURER
OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA to receive applications for the above Loan.
INSTALMENTS Payable a.s under:—
£lO per cent, on application
£2O ~ 3rd December, 1917
£2O ~ 3rd January, 1918
£2O per cent. Ist February, 1918
£l5 ~ „ Ist March, 1918
£l5 „ ~ Ist April, 1918
On applications under the Instalment System, Interest amountin'* to £3 ss. on each £lOO
subscribed will be paid on 15th June, 1918. If the deposits and all instalments of the amounts sub-
scribed are paid in full on or before the 2nd November, 1917, interest amounting' to £3 10s. on each
i 100 subscribed will be paid on 15th June, 1918. Thereafter interest will be paid half-yearly at
the tale of 4i per cent per annum.
APPLICATIONS accompanied by deposit of £lO per cent., will be received at any Branch of
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia or at any Bank, State Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office, or through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange. Instalments payable similarly.
Prospectus, Application forms, and all particulars at any Bank, State Savings
Bank or Money Order Post Office.
Help your Homeland —Buy War Loan Bonds.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, 15/A September, 1917.
87
\
m
&
A 2
M *
Rentfnpon,
CARTRIDGES
' T'JISCRIMINATING users
of skot gun cartridges kave
given tke Remington
krand tke stamp of tkeir approv-
al. Supplied in black and smokeless pow-
der loads. All cases are waterproofed.
Ask your dealer for tbem or send for
descriptive catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO.^
ID, D. Bryant, Manager
Bos 686, Melbourne
\
\
TYRES
RIBBED
THREE
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd..
77-79, Cannon St.. London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MO LEO Y & CO.. 129. KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
CO LTON hKOS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
p.c.b. -70
tp '")l
Join the Crowd
who swear by the “Plum” Razor. Its keenly-
tempered edge remains keen ; the result is only one
lathering is usually necessary.
TH£ “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE: 10/6 —POST FREE. j
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge, i
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6. \
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
v\
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 I'ITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, Ii.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.G.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, 1.1. A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £30,500,000.
H. \V. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided tor one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,660,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
* gcK DESIGN. MATERIALS O//
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
NELSON U ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
Strong Brown Leather Wallet,
with Silver Shield and Note
Book. Price 5/6.
C 7197. —Fi nest Trans-
lucent Enamel and Ster
ling 1 Silver Links,
6/6 pair.
True Economy
in Gifts is always associated with
Stewart Dawson’s exceptionally fine
Assortments.
Gifts of the highest grade in quality
and workmanship cost less at this noted
Establishment.
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST GIFT
CATALOGUE —sent Post Free.
.
The KLTP-KLIP, Best-quality, Silver-plated Pocket
Manicure, 2/6.
Stewart Dawson’s,
THE TREASURE HOUSE,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney
"GRAMOPHONE”
Library Grand.
The Instrument that
Everyone Admires.
Exquisitely produced in beautiful
Mahogany, with brass gilt fittings
—a decorative piece of furniture
as well as a musical instrument
that delights and educates.
This model is more suitable for
small rooms than the larger cabinet
instruments, giving slightly less
volume but the same mellow tone
and clear reproduction.
An “Ills Master’s Voice” triumph!
I
“ GRAMOPHONE *'
Registered Trade Mart
Satin-finished Mahogany - £4O.
Other Models £7/15/- to £7O.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name
of nearesf&ccredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.


Amusements.
Harry Kickarils Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
■piVOLl THISA T If 15. SYI) N K Y
Every Evening at 8. Matinees Wednesday and
Saturday, 2.30.
America’s famous Beauty Star,
MISS RUTH BUDD,
‘The Girl with the Smile,” supported by an entirely
new Company of Artists, including THE CAMILLE
TRIO, sensational Comedy Acrobats.
“TIVOLI TII IS AT If Fh M 151,H0C HN E.
REAPPEARANCE OF THE
TIVOLI FOLLIES.
Led by the charming MISS THELMA RAYE.
Also J. C. MACK & CO., KELLY and DRAKE,
•II XL ADDELL, THE SHELDOXS, HARRY ROX-
BITRY and ALTCE BENNETTO, and PRIVATE
BOBBY PEARCE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Clt ITEK 1 O N T HE A 'l' KeT SY l>N EY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF GRUMPY.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 29.
Mr. CYRIL MAUDE, in two brilliant comedies.
GENERAL JOHN REGAN.
Preceded bv the famous Screen Scene from
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
U E K M A ,1 15 STY’ 8, S Y I> N E Y.
* * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinee Wednesday at 2.
YOU’RE IN LOVE,
J. C. AVilliamson’s Beautiful Musical Comedy
Production.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
p ALICE TH 15 YTK E, SIDNEY,
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
Holiday Matinee Monday.
J. and N. TAIT’S
POPULAR MUSICAL COMEDY CO.,
including BARRY LUPINO, in the
WHITE CH RYBANTH EMUM.
A Cheery Carnival Attraction.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
y OW N II AL L, SVI)N E Y.
SATURDAY NEXT.
Also OCTOBER 1,3, 6.
/ J. and N. TAIT present the world-famous Singers,
MADAME EVELYJS' SCOTNEY
and
MR. HOWARD WHITE
Plans at Nicholson’s.
yUIKTHS’ HIPPODROME THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT & EVERY EVENING.
Special Holiday Matinee, Monday, Eight Ilouis’ Day.
W illiam Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation in
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
Made famous by the late Alfred Dampier, by special
arrangement with Alfred Rolfe, Esq.
Popular Prices: Saturday Nights and Holidays, 3/-,
2/-, 1/0 and 1/-. AVeek Nights, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Reserved Seats, 2/6, pit as tax.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
T WANGLE PJL.AVS AT
' THE LYCEUM;
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrixotox Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
II MON PICTI It E T II K A T RES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Miller, General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MEIJI SOL' liN E.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Musical
Cocktail,
MLi. MANHATTAN.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, .Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
IvATHLENE MACDONELL
inf
HUBERT HENRY DAVIES’ CELEBRATED PLAY,
OUTCAST.
KING’S I IMiATUF..’ MELBO L R Vy
Solo I.esM-es ....& BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EV
BERT BAILEY , :trn> JULIUS
STJ3ELE RUDD’S latest sifecess,
GRAND,
PopuLw 'Prices
TNG AT S. :■ V
H * -J-Jf -
(.RANT present
RUDD,
MV.!
T TTI-: nAYUiaIHE, mki.boikne.
1 Lessee snd- Manager: WILLIAM COSGROVE.
’ • :• ’ s. : !vj : J'' ”
AN N OT’ NCEMENT EXTRA ORDINARY.
A- -x-_ p v
WILLIAM COSGROVE
• presents for a Limited Season
The Latest Up-to-date Farcical Comedy,
THE SHIRKER.
Interpreted by a
RRfLTJANT NEW COMPANY OF PROFESSIONAL
ARTISTS.
, War-time Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. No Tax.
Watch Daily Papers for Box Plan Notice.’
p RINCESS’S T lIKATK K. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN .T. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite.
ALDAN WILKIE,
SEVEN DAYS’ LEAVE.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2'- and 1/-,,
If any illustration appearing In The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price f’oi it.
Amusements.
H OIT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours" Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening, and Matinees Saturday at
2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
THE SIX-ACT SUPER FILM PLAY,
DAWN.
Adapted from Rider Haggard’s Novel.
Also MABEL TALIAFERRO in
A MAGDALENE OF THE HILLS.
Prices as usual.
H/l A.JEST4C THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
ITI COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
THE TAINT.
An 8-act super feature.
And
BESSIE LOVE
in
THE SAWDUST RING.
Matinees daily at 2.80. Nights at 8.
MELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK. _
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: Sd. and 6d.
Legal Notices.
P URSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
* of the High Court of Justice England made in
the matter of the estate of Mary Jane Jackson
deceased and in an action Jackson v. Cooke 1917
J. 711 and dated 25th day of June 1917 the following
enquiry was directed “An Enquiry wdiethor Thomas
Jackson a son of the intestate Mary -Jane Jackson is
living or dead and if dead when he died and whether
he died intestate or left any and what Will and who
are his legal personal representatives and whether he
left any child or children or a widow him surviving
and if he left any child or children or a widow him
surviving whether such child or children or widow
or any and which of them were living or dead and if
such child or children or widow be dead who are
their legal personal representatives.” NOW r all
parties interested- under the above enquiry are by
themselves or their solicitors on or before the ISth
day of December 1917 to come in and prove their
claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Eve and Mr.
Justice Peterson, Royal Courts of Justice Strand,
London, England, and to enter their names in a book
kept for that purpose in Room 693 at the said Royal
Courts of Justice or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of any Order
to be made in the said action.
Thursday the 20th day of December 1917 at 2.15
o'clock at Room 692 in the same Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated 23rd day of July i 917.
A. KEEN. Master.
Note. —Mary .Jane Jackson widow lived at Bridg-
man’s Farm, Tillingham, Essex.
E. GUYE, 3,Staple Inn, London, England,
Solicitor for Plaintiff and Defendant.
rpO THOMAS MARSHALL, formerly of
JL Perthshire, Scotland, last heard of in
New Zealand, and his children and all per-
sons claiming by, through or under him or
them.
PURSUANT to an Order made under Sec-
tion 25 of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act 1913 by the Honorable Mr. Justice
Hosking a Judge of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand made at Wellington on the
sth day of September 1917 you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the first day of June 1918 your
claims to the estate of James Marshall, for-
merly of Lawrence New Zealand who died
on the 27th day of May 191 G. failing which
the estate will be distributed amongst the
persons entitled thereto disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington, this oth day of
September, 1917.
•T. W. MACDONALD.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington. New Zealand.
Business Notices.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
%
m
/
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write or call for particulars.
R. K. Kussaek, 3"a Elizabeth St., Syd-
ney; Philip Erankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Pirie
St., Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter. Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto.
Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have, permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free,
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ettab. 1891.
Public Notice. :
Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging Co. N.L.
NOTICK OF DIVIDEND.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend (the
26th) of 10 per cent., or Two Shillings per
share, together with a bonus of 5 per or One
Shilling per share, amounting' in all to £22,500, has
been declared parable on the 22nd October, 1917, and
for this purpose the Share Register will he closed
from, the loth to 22nd October, inclusive. By order
of the Board, H. J. WISE, Manager.^
Dated at Hobart this 14th day of September, 191/.
Wanted.
Business Manager Wanted
WE require the services of an experi-
enced and competent Business Man
to assist in the management of our Auckland
Branch Establishment. A knowledge of
accounts is essential and a thorough grasp
of Modern Salesmanship and methods indis-
pensable. Applications are particularly in-
vited from able and energetic men possessing
experience in the Management of the Fer-
tilister Industry.
Excellent prospects for a thoroughly com-
petent, keen and active Business Man pos-
sessing executive ability, and no other need
apply.
Salary £5OO per annum to commence.
Applications (covering testimonials and
photograph), which will be treated in strict
confidence, to be addressed.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.’s
New Zealand Drug Company, Ltd.,
Dunedin, N.Z.
Your Teeth Are Sound
To-day, but—
Remember, germs are unceasingly at work.
So elusive are they and so tucked away in
deep-seated crevices that vigorous and regu-
lar brushing of the teeth is not in itself
sufficient protection by any means.
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
is qualified to destroy these tooth dangers
lurking in the cavities of the mouth. Calox
liberates oxygen, and this wonderful purifier
and germicide reaches every crevice, every
recess, destroys bacteria and neutralises
destructive acids, which are the cause of
decay.
Calox whitens the teeth, and is an anti-
septic mouth wash. At the same time, it is
a delightfully fragrant dentifrice.
CALOX Free.
A big sample tin of Calox is
here waiting for you. Send
your name and address with
this ad., and mail to Calox
Department, Geo. tyills and
Co.. 180 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, enclosing two penny
stamps to cover postage. Get
this sample now.
Calox is procurable from
ALL CHEMISTS AND LEAD-
ING STORES
1 . 27 9/’l7.
UStfiiSsffi^
the oxygen
tooth powder
*KI»SON & ROBBIB
LEARN TO DRAW!
"There's Money in the Pen."
The above is the title of our
bookltt which tells about the
great po sib ilitivfi of DRAWING,
both as a pastime and as a
It describes
in detail
the draw-
ing course
bv HARRY
,T. WES-
TON, Aus-
tral i a ’ s
famous coin-
mericial artist.
It explains the differ-
ence between learning
to COPY, and learning
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to be
avoided bv the begin-
ner. It explains in
clear, concise lan-
guage what the Weston
Course is, and wh y
Weston tuition is the
most successful.
There’s no reason why
YOU could not earn
go o d money as an
artist. The ability to
draw can be AC-
QUIRED if your in-
clination is strong
enough to follow the
scientific principles
laid down in the
WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAW-
ING.
T4 i
J *«»iotf*
“TIIEKE'S MONEY
the HARRY J.
Postal School of
17 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bon
WESTON
Drawing,
Street, Sydney.
ABBEY
SHOES
are made in fashionable and dis-
tinctive models for all occasions.
You will have no difficulty in get-
ting footwear exactly to your taste,
if you buy at the Abbey Shoe
Stores.
Our shoes are made in half and
full sizes, and in narrow, medium
and wide fittings, hence you are
assured perfection of fit.
We illustrate one of our latest
model s—a special High-Grade
Patent Bal.. with Perforated Golosh
and Grey Suede Legs.
Prices, 42|6 and 50f
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
For Skin Eruptions
and Sores use
Vaseline
TV.d* Mark R.jrl.t.r.d
Oxide of Zinc
Combines the wonder-
ful curative properties
of zinc oxide with the
soothing, healing qual-
ities of “Vaseline” Jelly.
For sale at all chemists
and general stores, in
handy, sanitary tin tubes.
Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing C •
(Consolidated)
17 State Street. New York. U. A.
London Montreal Mo.cow
rv-A,^
Wear
Ou
COT&SETS
ThqyLace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
ht“lP
JOIN up, young man. and youip gtay
to bring about a permanent P e <
out, and the chances are that you arP
to stand practically to arms ti
past middle-age.


All oe SCALP
Began With Pimples. Very Painful,
Often Causing Loss of Sleep. Hair
Fell Out. Cuticura Healed.
“I was greatly troubled with an itch-
ing rash all over my scalp. The trouble
began with pimples which
became very itchy and the
more 1 scratched them the
more they spread. They
were very painful, often
causing me loss of sleep
at night. Myhairbeganto
fall out and I was troubled
with dandruff.
“I sent for samples of
Cuticura Soap and Ointment and after-
wards bought more and I was healed. ”
(Signed) Miss Helen Dixon, Avondale,
Stuart Town, N. S. W., June 12, 1.916.
The majority of skin and scalp troubles
might be prevented by using Cuticura.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
For Sore Throats,
Colds, Influenza,
etc.
CINNAK acts in a few seconds and
sterilises the germs of disease, so that
the sufferer quickly recovers health.
CINNAK CAN BE TAKEN AT ANY
TIME—ANYWHERE.
Air-tight Tubes 1/6 All Chemists.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
EIEY
CARTRIDGES
1
Always Reliable
r
ELEY Grand Prix
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless <3> Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
ELEY
450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
BROS. L° LONDON
HI
h
f
Ten Thousand
Panamas.
A
Remarkable
Purchase.
Smart
Stylish
Panamas.
21, 2i and 2| inch
brims,
12J6
Attractive
Panamas.
Brims 2|, 2} and
2f inches,
15/6
Murdoch’s
Popular
Panamas.
Strong wearers;
cool, shady brims
—2\, 2\, 2f, 3 and
3| inches,
21/-
Smart
City
Panamas.
Popular brim
widths — 2i and
2i inches,
22/6
Superior
Quality
Panamas.
Smart and stylish
—2-1, 2§ inch
brims,
25/-
This special purchase of Panamas is a story of the
seemingly impossible being accomplished' by a
spot-cash offer and quick decision.
Owing to transport difficulties, stacks of Panamas
were accumulated in South America waiting for
shipping. Our buyer made an offer to the
distributors to pay spot cash for prompt despatch
of a parcel of Panamas, which was accepted.
These genuine Xative Panamas have now arrived
and are splendid quality.
Genuine South American
Panamas —Now Offering
at PRE-WAR PRICES.
Light, cool, shady hats that will defend you from
Old Sol’s attentions. In the latest shapes; nice,
creamy bleach; closety woven —smartly finished
with silk bands and sweat leathers, in brim widths
to suit city or country men.
Following our usual policy we are passing on the
advantage we have gained to our customers.
Get Your Panama M All 7 t
for the Summer f’ vlf .
Select one of these Murdoch Panamas and save
money.
Buy now at pre-war prices and get a full season’s
wear from the Panamas of your choice. Don’t
miss this chance. Call in and try on your size
to-day or send your order to Desk E.
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
Complete Outfitters
for Men *sl Bops
The Inky Way.
The dusty Inky Way of Sydney suburbs
lost recently Peter Gornall, proprietor of
the Suburban Times, Redfern. For over
30 years be had been an identity of ex-Premier
Jim McGowen’s district, and had done it
many a good turn. Prior to coming to Aus-
tralia he had dodged revolutions in Peru and
Bolivia.
“E.L.S.”: A few years ago the Gawler
(S.A.) Bunyip was brought out by three
men. Coombe, M.P., was editor; C. J.
Stevens, one time associate-editor of the
Register, wrote the Town Tattle column,
the paper’s chief feature; and R. H. Barnett
saw to the printing. Within six months the
three have answered the last call. And all
comparatively young men—Stevens 59,
Coombe just over 50 and Barnett 48.
Emmaville (N.S.W.) Argus (30/8/T7) :
During the week Mr. J. J. Loomes, of Tatt.’s
Hotel, was presented with twins by Lily, his pet cow.
Anybody heard of an editor being murdered
up that way?
Coming back from Blighty, Major Charlie
Cunningham, brother of the Argus editor,
and formerly “Tingle” of the Australasian.
Charlie went away as a staff-sergeant, and
rapidly rose to be head of the Postal Corps,
lie left Australia at the same time as his
fellow clubman, Dr. Jack Gordon, whose
pluck and self-sacrifice in Gallipoli will
never be forgotten by the dwindling band
of dare-devils whose wounds he tended.
Another “Savage,” the late “Pip” Schuler,
son of the Age editor, will not return from
France to celebrate the anniversary of the
Egyptian dinner at which Charlie Cunning-
ham and he entertained a few kindred
spirits between the rounds of the big fight.
Pip]s name will never be on a menu card
again ; but it is in beaten metal on a roll of
honor, under the title “Per castra ad astra,”
shortly to be unveiled in the rooms of his old
eclub.
* * * *
“F.E.H.” : Gladys Taylor-llain, authoress
of “The Coo-ee Contingent,” is such a mite
that she was always “Smallest” in her under-
graduate days at the now-defunct Princess
Ida Club. But she took the largest size in
personalities, and her debating powers were
famous. Congratulations poured in when
she kicked off as a barrister in the Hawthorn
(Vic.) Court by gaining the mildest possible
verdict for a client “without a poss.”
“The Wanderer” : Cundle, on the Manning
(N.S.W.), has put in the peg; the bars are
closed. The first pub was built in River-
street during the time of the Crimean war
and the Indian mutiny, and the enterprising
licensee, a whaler, may be termed the origi-
nator in Australia of “war specials.” The
sailing ship Gipsy had been wrecked near
the Manning Heads, and the publican secured
a small brass cannon from her. When infor-
mation or rumor drifted through from the
South he used to pour a couple of canisters
of gunpowder into the cannon and touch it
off. Of course the populace within sound
of the. report flocked to the shanty, heard
the tidings, made merry if the news was good
and drowned their sorrows if it was bad.
The gun is still in existence.
* * * *
A libel case originating up Bathurst way,
where they hand out compliments to influen-
tial citizens on fish-hooks, materialised in a
Sydney court the other day. The article
carried the meaty heading, “Ugly Rumors
and Some Facts.” The substance of it
matters nothing. The argument for the
defence was the thing: “That the jury was
justified in inferring from the evidence for
the plaintiff that the rumors referred to in
the article were in existence. Therefore the
paper was justified in alluding to them.” It
didn’t come off. Verdict for plaintiff, £2OO.
Yet it seems a pity. Think how joyous our
mornings and hilarious, the evenings might
be made by a press making uhfettered use of
the rumors drifting elusively around, say,
Sydney and Melbourne, and blowing in hot
and strong in time for the latest edition !
With an alert staff the entire output from
all the paper-mills in the world could be used
up by either city in a week.
* * * *
“F.N.T.” : 7?e Alg. Swinburne and his one
public speech (B. 30/8/T7), in which,
having undertaken to propose “The Press,”
he declared that it was “a damnable
institution, a horrible institution, a
beastly institution,” and then sat down. Bob
Solly did much the same sort of thing
in a less violent manner when, at an Eight
Hours Day luncheon, he got up to propose
the same toast. After making nasty re-
marks about the Age, which had just
exchanged one lot of referendum principles
for a different assortment, Solly concluded:
“So I propose the toast of the press—
excepting the Age,” and sat down with the
air of one who has done a great and splendid
thing. It was the Argus which next day
remarked dryly that the Eight Hours Com-
mittee had followed a singular procedure
by inviting a guest to the banquet and there
offering him a gross insult.
THE UNIVERSAL CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He told the statesman how to rule,
The C.J. how to judge;
His style Was crisp, his manner cool.
He bore no man a grudge.
He told the actor how to act,
The singer how to sing ;
Yet no one asked: “Is it a fact
This bloke knows everything?”
They bought the paper, read his stuff
And cheered, or d—d his cheek,
But never called his flagrant bluff.
He drew his screw each week,
And told the painter how to paint
As if he knew it all,
Not in a modest tone and faint,
Biit in a cheery bawl.
And though men muttered here and there
And small rebellious flames
Sprang up and died, he did not care,
But criticised all games.
He thought he knew, they thought he might,
The public thought he must;
But if they'd told him how to write
That critic would have bust.
N.S.W.
PALETTE.


v;
Ilpiijia.ifiljaom-nmnr
Since 1832
During more than 84 years
a period almost covering the rise and
progress of Industrial England—
Moseleys have been engaged continuously in
studying the peculiarities, the “ temperament ” of
rubber; and in the manufacture of articles of rubber.
The Moseley Grooved
Motor Tyre of to-day#
in its magnificent quality#
and not less in its low price#
is the outcome, the
achievement of Moseleys
four'Score years of
experience and endeavour.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer
If you find any difficulty in obtaining
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
2 8 7-289, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “ Grear,” Sydney.
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
C.W. H.
NQ 2
"MILLER"
I
"MILLER”
Lighting Fixtures and Lamps
of all descriptions—Electric, Gas and
Oil varieties can be obtained through-
out Australia
and New Zea-
land at moder-
ate prices.
stands for the BES
The "Miller”
quality is known
the World over
and the name
in all lamp ware.
Do not fail to look over the
"Miller ” line, —it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER ql COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
■V*
il'll'
f w
No. 08221
r
l 9?
REMEMBER!
HORROCKSES’
THE BEIT RAW MATERIAL
.HONEST MANUFACTURE.
will OUTWEAR the
HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED AS
SUBSTITUTES
SEE
'“HORROCKSES'”
ON
SELVEDGE
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCHE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
tm
VTi-rt
■ >y...
ST’SI-'V ’ .-.
sl*'
Sporting
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Jlb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
14/0
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model
24in. octagon barrel. 22 calibre rim fi re . maeayin
takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-harden
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, sjib
take-down. Carriage paid
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
“Suitable for small game and target shooting
80. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 4£lb; slide action, A "7ffo
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4Jlb.; QO/A
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights u *:
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
37/6
tmimm
m;
■m
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22 fa BZ /
short, long, or long rifle cartridges: weight, about sflb. ..
mmwarn
=£i
“Simple and extra strong in construction.”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, tor 22
short or long rim fire cartridges. 21in. heavy round steel barrel.
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. UTlin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b 37/0
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
3WSPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
“A suitable weapon for the boy
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open QQ
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9: other States, 3/2.)
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted only hold
for two weeks from date.
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
837. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight silb.
Delivered.
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 39/3 1000; 4/- 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
is
A perfect rabbiter's rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rif
Model 12, 22 calibre, solid bree< li. side ej
straight grip. 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open •fgl m
front sights; weight. 411 b Delivered /
SUNOLTOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
11d. post free.
87. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F. round 24in.
barrel case-bardened frame, solid breech, block under lever
action; weight, about 4^lb.
Fited with open Front and Sporting Rear Sight 30/"
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight 42/6
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F. 25 or 32 calibres, 2/6 extra.
A low-priced , reliable rxjie.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger o Q A
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, «>n/
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight.. ••3o/*
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also “Sure
(jiiule (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or
are money savers.
Catch ” Angle™
loth IM*- rhe,J
1C
1.
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
flewct3siJe £ Brisbane


REXONA SOAP FOR BEAUTIFUL HAIR
Miss
GRACE
LAVERS
(from a
photo, by
Monte
Luke.)
I
Miss Grace Lavers is one of the brightest
prettiest and most tuneful musical-corned;
favorites. Miss Lavers uses Rexona Soap fo
her beautiful hair, and joins the Rexoni
Girls' Club with these words:
“I am delighted
with youi,- Rexona
Soap, and am sending
you my photograph to
show how much good
it has done my hair.
I have been using it
now for nearly three
months, and it makes
the hair so soft and
fluffy, that 1 am always
going to continue to
use it.
“R exo n a Soap is
miles ahead of any-
thing 1 have ever tried
before. Hair tonics
and shampoos do no-
thing like the good
that Rexona Soap does.
I should think that
every girl would use it,
and I am sure they do
if they have once tried
it. It is so good for
the Complexion, too, it
leaves the skin so clear
and fresh.
“I have a pot of
Rexona Ointment, too;
it really is a rapid
healer. I have found
it excellent for prevent-
ing Sunburn. I can
assure you I shall
always go out of my
way to praise Rexona.
GIRLS! BEAUTIFY YOUR HAIR!
“Yours truly,
“ (Sgd.) GRACE LAVERS.”
Do you know that in less than 10 minutes you can double the beauty of your
hair? It becomes light, waty, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and
charming as anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A delight-
ful surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected or is scraggy, dry, brittle
or thin. Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt, or excess oil, and in a few
moments you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves every
particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, forever stopping
itching and falling hair. If you care to have pretty hair, and lots of it, get a tablet
of Rexona Soap to-day. Price, 1/- tablet. Rexona the Rapid Healer, 1/(1 and 3/-.
SKIN & FACIAL
MEDICATED SOAP
‘THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’*
You Say “I’m Well” —
But Are You?
one is really well who is dependent upon
i- physics and cathartics for relief from a more
or less chronic condition of constipation.
Physics give only temporary relief and their
after effects intensify the very condition they are
supposed to remedy.
Nujol, the common sense relief, is not digested or
absorbed into the system. It acts merely as an in-
ternal lubricant.
Nujol is not a drug. Drugs give quick, temporary
relief but they aggravate the very condition they
are meant to cure. But Nujol is a genuine remedy
in that it relieves constipation in the most natural
way by lubricating the lining of the intestines, soft-
ening the intestinal contents, and thus promoting
healthy and normal bovyel activity. The use of
Nujol is not attended with the griping or distress
that follow the use of drug remedies
FOB
constip
K m .
I^jQl
=7-'
■ifjs
S 3:
S3T
ES
>
E?/
Ask your chemist for booklet.
Nujol is sold only in 16 ounce
bottles bearing the Nujol trade-
mark. Never in bulk. Avoid
substitutes.
Nujol
TRADE MAUI
FOR CONSTIPATION
STANDARD OIL CO.
Jk (New Jersey)
U. S. A.
171 OR £1 6s. 6d. you can have The
j Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum,, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Coastland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FORTHWARD faring from the city,
vagrant from the teeming zones,
I have culled a stave of music, rich
Avith mystic undertones.
Never shall the maid of Commerce, rustling
in her yellow gown,
Backward turn the gipsy footsteps to the
narrow ruts of Town,
Where the empty, ribald laughter smashes
on the singing heart,
And the golden phrase is silenced by the
clanking market-cart.
Waiting like a wearied mother, all the coast-
Jand beckoned me
Where the land-line kissed the sea-line and
the sky-line kissed the sea.
Midway where the crouching headlands
gazed across the open South
I have marked the tongue of Ocean moving
in the wonder-mouth ;
Felt the cleanly robes of spindrift lightly
sweep across my face,
When the breathing of the Godhead grandly
flowed from Space to Place.
I have heard the jocund sunset, folded in
her jewelled scarf,
Titter in the face of Nightfall, tottering on
her tapping staff ;
And mine ears have held the music when
the joyous salt airs pass
Swinging on the swaying branches, playing
’mid the singing grass.
One with every peal of beauty chiming
where the brazen noon
Mocks the sulking, deep-sea water chained
within the drear lagoon,
Brother to the crystal current stealing
through the fragrant airs,
Whispering to the haunted valley, as a
maiden speaks her prayer? •
Comrade to the firm white weather, partner
of the stalwart days,
I have heard the tale of Being broadly
spoken phrase by phrase;
Felt the silken cords of Reason strongly
draAV and draw me thence,
Where the scourge of Truth and Beauty
whips the shoulders of Pretence.
Heard the soft, poetic billows swinging in
with rhythmic runes,
Telling their enchanted legends to the echoes
’mid the dunes;
Stared into the eyes of Distance, seen the
song of breeze and brine
On the yellow page of Sea-Shore, whitely
written line by line ;
All the moon-dim sails of galleons, floAving
out across the skies,
Quested toward the saffron sunset where the
port of Wonder lies ;
While the tender tunes of Twilight caught
within their aery sieve
Mocked the paltry voice within me, fumbling
for its adjective.
Every voice of tone and color speaking from
the labyrinth
Mocked the graven words of monarchs
blatant on the marble plinth ;
All the vibrant harp of Ocean, whence the
ancient anthem swells,
Ridiculed the shouting Nations, shuffling on
their parallels;
All the tide-rip in the reaches, all the swirl
of deep-sea rain,
Weltered like a cleansing torrent through
the flood-gates of the brain;
Purged of all the stress of travail, stripped
of Custom’s winding-robe,
All my life leapt swiftly backward toward
the birth-time of the globe.
Then the bawds of speech and raiment, all
the tinsel of the street.
With the scarlet gems of Passion lay as
dross about my feet;
Standing with the wider Vision cradled in
my wondering eyes,
Where the gulls like flecks of silver circled
in the windy skies,
Where the drowsy bay the day-long sang the
glories of the morn,
With a fluttering scarf of Ocean tossed upon
each jagged horn :
So the fibres of my Being with the cords of
Life were blent,
Standing as the link with distance, outpost
of a continent.
All my life leapt swiftly backward, striding
from the reeking lanes
Where the prelacy of Profit thundered in
their lofty fanes ;
Where the brotherhood of Barter girded lip
their shrunken loins,
Worshipping the graven image arrogant upon
their coins ;
Out to w r here the ancient forces spill the
measure of their phials
Where the organ of the tempest thunders
down the airy aisles :
Out to Avhere the dew-drenched grasses
glorify the parent sod,
Where the flowering of a daisy is the
written word of God.
One with all the wide Creation I shall draw
the stalwart breath,
Drifting on the stream of Being outward
towards the tide of Death ;
Vibrant to the' finer cadence, naked to the
strong caress,
Lip to lip against the sea-rim swooning ’mid
its loveliness.
Think of me as one who. thinking, marvelled
at the narroAV thought.
Manifest in sprawling cities which your
patient hands have wrought;
When the dark wave loops to silver swing-
ing from the outer deep,
All my soul shall stoop to meet it; wonder-
weary I shall sleep.
MAORIEANO.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Wilson Comes Out.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS the man with the close-cropped hair
and the strange stubble on his chin
turned into East-street a sort of
wireless wave seemed to pass along the
shabby houses of that neighborhood. Blinds
that had been designed to look like Venetians,
and which, therefore, should not have been
capable of such treatment, were twisted back
or raised slightly, and curious faces peered
at the passing figure. Mrs. Brown, in Num-
ber 2, was the first to discover the arrival,
and, turning from the front door, where she
had been whitening the step, she gave the
information to the house :
“Heigh ! Bill Wilson’s out! ’E just went
parst.”
Then she bustled out of the front door and
stood by her gate, with folded arms on the
railings, looking after the man as he saun-
tered slowly up the street. In a moment or
so her neighbor, Mrs. Sanders, rubbing soapy
hands on a torn apron that looked as if it
had been hastily devised from a worn-out
under-garment, joined her. In the meantime,
an excited female had skurried up the lane
at the back of the houses, crossed the inter-
secting street at the corner, and hammered
at a gate about a dozen gateways farther up.
“Missus ! Missus !” she shouted. “Heigh.
Missus! Bill’s out! ’E’s just goin’ along
the street.”
“Oh. my Gawd!” said a woman’s voice
from within. “An’ Jack’s gone to work!
Wait till I shut up me ’ouse.”
There was a blissful anticipation of thrill
in the wan face of Mrs. Sanders.
"She’ll cop out now,” Mrs. Sanders said.
“She deserves all she gets,” retorted Mrs.
Brown, sharply. “She’s the only woman in
this street wot’s living with a man that ain’t
’er’s, lawful —-wot’s publicly known, anyway.
Not that I’m stuck up about that sorter
thing, as long as people live respectable; but
she didn’t ’ave no right to bring in the lor.
A woman who wants to go runnin’ to the lor
ain't no class.”
Mrs. Sanders cordially agreed. The “lor'
is a despised method in East-street.
“And Bill Wilson ain’t a bad feller,” she
said. “Even if she couldn’t get on with ’im,
an’ took up with another feller, she ’ad no
rights to send ’im to gaol. She ’ad the other
bloke —Thomson ain’t no class compared
with Bill, / don’t think —and she should’ve
let Bill alone.”
“It was ’er roustin’ that led to all the
tiouble,” confided Mrs. Brown ; “an’ when ’e
started to stay away to keep out of it, and
’is money comes less, she gets an idea that
’e’s the worst brute in the world an’ she’s
an injured woman ; and when this Thomson
makes up to ’er, sympathisin’ an’ savin’ ’e
wouldn’t be’ave like that to any woman, she
just took up with ’im. Not that she cared
for Thomson, but she gets the idea of payin’
out Bill, ’oo ’as another girl, she thinks. A
woman like that’ll think anything.”
“Thomson ain’t much chop, anyway,”
commented Mrs. Sanders.
“With ’is two-up!” snorted Mrs. Brown.
“She never ’ad no need to go out workin’
when she was with Bill. Serves ’er bloomin’
well right whatever ’appens—goin’ to the
lor !”
“ ’E’s in the pub a long time,” remarked
Mrs. Sanders.
For the object of their discussion, instead
of continuing his leisurely progress to the
home whither the dishevelled feminine herald
had borne the tidings of his approach, had
turned aside into the hotel at the
corner. Nodding casually at the barman
he had ordered a mug of beer, and seated
himself on the gas-box.
“Seen Jack Thomson anywhere about?” he
asked, after a long period of silence.
“Saw ’im going to work this morning,”
returned the barman.
“Oh, ’e went to work!” repeated Wilson.
There were not many men about, but curi-
ous women came in, on the pretence of buying
beer, to nod and stare at him. The local
bottle-oh also arrived and gave him effusive
welcome, as if surprised at seeing him : but
to all lie displayed an equal taciturnity.
“ ’Ow did you find it?” asked the barman,
finally, during a spell, leaning his elbows
on the bar, and his hands on his chin.
“It was ’ell,” said Wilson briefly.
“ ’Ave another mug with me,” invited the
barman coaxingly.
Wilson left his seat and approached the
bar.
“It’s no place for any man.” he Said, with
a heat that showed the slumbering fire that
he held within him. “An’ I ’ad no right to
be there, no-’ow. Tli’ missus ’ad an order
against me when 1 left ’er, but I lived with
’er since then ; an’ when she took up with
Thomson after I left ’er, an’ I got a sum-
mons for arrears, I -should ’ave gone along
and told the beak about things, instead of
lettin’ ’im send me up. I ’adn’t no idea
that the wife’d play such a dirty trick. It
was just to get me outer the way, for fear
I’d make trouble.” i
“It teas a dirty trick,” assented the bar-
man. “What are you going to do about it?”
“I know what I’m goin’ to do,” said
Wilson, returning to his taciturnity. “I’ll
go an’ get a shave now. What time does
Thomson come back?”
“Six o’clock.” answered the barman.
As he went, Walker, the local butcher,
came in and yielded him another surprised
greeting; but he ignored the invitation to a
drink. Disappointed women, who, neglecting
their household duties in the prospect of a
morning’s excitement, had kept watch at
their front gates, saw him pass out of East-
street. and, after lingering for a time dis-
cussing the situation, in the half hope of a
re-appearance, faded into the recesses of their
shoddy houses.
“How’s he taking it?” asked Walker the
butcher. “Is lie goin’ to make trouble?”
“Blessed if I know!” returned the barman.
“Bill Wilson was always a quiet feller,
although I’ve seen ’im fight, an’ ’e looked
ugly then. But, mostly, ’e’d dodge a row.
Still, if I was in ’is place I’d wring the
necks of both of them.”
Within her locked house Mrs. Wilson
(now, by courtesy. Mrs. Thomson) was ex-
periencing mixed emotions. The first word of
her husband’s coming had filled her with a
mighty terror, for. in spite of his general
geniality she remembered times when the fires
of hell were in his eyes and the savagery of
a tiger on his tight-drawn mouth and his
. cheeks. She had partially refreshed her
courage by discussing with the herald at her
back gate what she intended to do if her hus-
band made trouble—which information the
herald duly spread over the neighborhood.
(Continued on next page.)


IT KIDNEY TROUBLE?
Nothing Much ! ” —This is what the
kidney sufferer will tell you when you
ask him what is the matter. You can
see how miserable and hopeless he looks ;
his skin is yellow, his eyes puffy and
swollen ; he is afraid of his life to move
quickly or to bend. He is never free
from a pain or burning ache in the back;
now and then becomes so dizzv that
he nearly falls; his heart acts strangely.
He has bladder and urinary troubles,
rheumatic pains, and is always feeling
tired and worn out; he is sleepless and
restless.
“Nothing Much ! ” —He little knows
how serious his trouble is, and how
every day draws him nearer the fatal
Bright’s disease or dropsy. Take your
trouble in time, and begin with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, the reliable
kidney and bladder medicine, at the first
sign of anything wrong. Read how
thoroughly the Sydney people who
speak here have been cured ; it will
encourage you.
Every Picture
Te/ts A Story
Tired out from morning till night —
Head had —heart had —rheumatic and dropsical
Have you, suspected your kidneys?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Backache and Kidney
Trouble.
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mr. F. W. Martin, Hastings, 50 Despointes Street,
Marrickville, Sydney, says: “About two years ago I took
a course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for a severe
attack of kidney disorder and they permanently cured
me. Previous to using these pills I had a lot of trouble
vvith my back ; it was very stiff and always aching. At
times it was only with difficulty I could get about, and
if I stooped the agony in standing up straight again was
awful. I was also subject to dizzy attacks and felt
constantly tired and languid. I heard of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills through a friend, so got some at once.
They suited me splendidly and restored me to perfect
health. I am still well and have been since Doans
Backache Kidney Pills cured me about two years ago.’
Mr. Martin confirms his previous statement two years
later: “I have had no trouble with my kidneys since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me four years ago.
Mrs. G. Gavin, Wanstead Street, Undercliffe, Sydney,
says: “For about four years I suffered a good deal from
backache and kidney trouble, and only those who have
been afflicted iu this way will have any idea of what I
went through. The pain in my back was so severe that
I could hardly move, especially in the morning, when 1
was often almost impossible for me to get out of h ed
without assistance. Other symptoms of kidney trouble
were bad headaches and dizzy attacks, both of which
were very trying. I was treated by a doctor for some
time, and also tried different kidney remedies * sa ' v
advertised, but nothing did me any good. Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills were at last brought under my notice
and they proved to be the very thing I wanted. After
taking one bottle I felt ever so much better, and nine
bottles of the pills cured me completely, and I have been
free from pain ever since. It is eight years since I too
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so my cure has been
well tested.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
Still her terror held sufficiently to cause her
to securely barricade the back gate when the
conversation was over, and, shutting the
door and windows, she locked herself in her
bouse as in a fortress. But, later, as the
hours passed, her feelings changed. She felt
herself in a way humiliated when the man
did not come near her. He probably did not
realise it, but he was avenging himself.
People would say, she thought, that he did
not think enough of her to seek revenge for
her conduct; fox*, although with a peculiar
feminine characteristic she considered all her
conduct justified—resteeming that she had
“been driven to it” —'she still realised that
some of her actions invited revenge. And
now the drama threatened to fizzle out into
farce! Later her thought went farthei’. Pos-
s bly it was because he did not care enough
for her that he did not come. That thought
filled her with the same sense of injury as
had driven her to the folly of her life. So,
although a terror at the impending visit still
held her, it was diluted with other more
singular emotions and the mixture thereof
was so agitating that she had no dinner ready
for Thomson when he got home.
- bad heard already about the arrival of
Bill Wilson, and there was a notable uneasi-
ness under the bombastic nonchalance of his
manner. The news had been thrown at him
from all directions with the spiteful friendli-
ness which is bestowed upon the little-liked.
“What? No blasted tea ready?” he said,
roughly. “An' me wantin’ to get to a
meetin’ to-night! I’ll g 0 out and get me
tea.
“You’re not goin’ out to-night,” said the
woman hotly.
"\A hy shouldn’t I ?” he demanded. “There’s
a meetin’ of the L’nion to-night, an’ I’ve got
to be there. An’ there’s an executive before-
and. I’ve got to go. I’ll go out an’ get me
tea.
He moved towards the door, but she inter-
cepted him.
“Jack! . Jack, dear!” she said. “Bill’s
out, an e s knockin’ about. ’E’ll be cornin’
’ere. You can't go !”
« > bat ' b p said with assumed scorn.
b" won’t come. ere. ’E knows I’d ulaster
lm if e did. Bill never was a fighter.”
Airs. Wilson looked at him keenly, but he
avoided her eye.
"Y\ ell, stay at ’ome, just for to-night,” she
pleaded.
“I can't," he roared, with an oath. “I’m
goin’ out to get me tea before I go along to
the meeting.”
He pushed her away and strode to the
front door; but as he opened it it was swung;
back and closed. W ilson now had the stubble
off his chin ; and his eyes and his face had
that tigerish look which his wife had pictured
when she thought of him.
“You waster!” he snarled. “You wanted
to git out an' leave ’er to it! I’ve been
waitin’ the whole day ter get the two of you
together! And now I’ve got you!”
. The woman shrieked ; but it was only the
impel sonal shriek of a woman who sees
something of a disturbing nature. Her
own terror had gone, and she looked upon
tne two .men who were fighting over her
with a singular curiosity as to who would
be the victor. Thomson was shrinking back
from the other man.
The fight might have been long in coming
but for Thomson’s frightened effort to
escape. He dodged aside as Wilson, with face
thrust forward to point his gibes,
approached; and, then, as Wilson sprang,
struck weakly at the insulting face. Quick
as lightning, and with all the weight of his
hatred, Wilson struck back. There was a
crash as Thomson fell, his head against the
iron fire-grate, and his face strangely doubled
over as he lay there. His head twisted con-
vulsively, and he made strange sounds;
then, somehow, his head twisted over side-
ways to the floor, as if it was loose from his
body, and he lay silent, with blood pouring
out in the fireplace.
“My God, you have killed him !” screamed
Mrs. Wilstm.
Wilson stared dazedly, a green hue on his
face. There was a clamor in the street, and
the door was assailed with pommelling fists.
Wilson moved to open it.
“Wait!” said the woman.
She turned hurriedly into the next room,
returning with a tomahawk which she placed
on the floor close to Thomson’s hand, just
as Wilson let a burst of excited people
through the doorway. At the back of them
came a policeman.
“My husband was talking to me.” she
explained weepingly. “and Jack Thomson
rushed at him with a tomahawk. He tried
to kill him. My husband pushed him away,
and he fell —like that.”
“Bill was always a quiet man,” put in
Airs. Brown, eagerly. “He Avouldn’t hurt
no one intentional.”
“He was in my pub, to-day, as calm as
anything.” added the barman, bravely. “Only
just before six o’clock, too. lie said he didn’t
think it worth while to have a row over any-
thing.”
The policeman took down all the particu-
lars he could gather, with nothing in it
that could do Wilson more than a few
months’ harm, considering all the circum-
stances as rendered by the loyal denizens of
East-street. And when another policeman
escorted AVilson to the police-station, Mrs.
Wilson went too, to see what she could do
for him—as a loyal wife sho Id.
HAMER.
The Final Act.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ ~T'YE come for that last act,” announced
Thurston shortly, v as Borrodale opened
the door of his flat, “and I don’t stir
a foot until you give it me.”
“I can give you a whisky-and-soda,” said
Borrodale, imperturbably. “Don’t wait on
the mat, anyhow.”
Thurston shrugged, emitted a grunt and
followed the dramatist along the passage
into his den. In a corner lighted by a
shaded lamp he noted a table strewn with
sheets of manuscript. His mission might
not be unsuccessful, after all.
“You’ve finished it?”
“No—not quite.”
The Apollo manager with a despairing
gesture flung himself into a chair.
“I’ve tried,” Borrodale went on, “but up
to now the thing beats me. Give me another
day, Thurston.”
“I’ve given you too long as it is. You’ve
got me in a hole. Here we are rehearsing
like mad for production to-morrow week and
the final act still to be written. Damn it,
Borrodale, it’s several degrees too bad.”
“I admit it. Call me all the names you
think fit. I deserve them. Meanwhile help
yourself to the firewater”
“You’re incorrigible,” growled the man-
ager, as he unstoppered the decanter.
“No, no, I won’t have that! Have I ever
failed you before? Never, Thurston, never!
But this time it’s different. I didn’t map
the job out clearly at the start. Say when
for soda. Which only proves that even
the most successful playwrights—Laurence
Borrodale not excepted—can lose command
of their tools at times.”
“How’s that? Your scenario was com-
plete”—
“So I thought!”
“I accepted the piece on that scenario and
your name. And when the time was up,
per contract, for you to deliver the MS., I
arranged to start rehearsals. You give me
three acts to go on with and promise the
fourth two weeks ago. Then you say it will
be ready faithfully to-night, and now you’re
asking for another day.”
Borrodale took a chair and sat facing the
irate manager, a masterful, compelling look
in his keen eyes.
“The scenario was wrong, in the first
place,” he said quietly. “That was my
initial mistake.”
“Explain.”
“The piece you’ve accepted, Thurston, had
what’s called ‘a happy ending.’ ”
“Quite so. What the public wants. And
what it wants I want.”
“I know. But in this case the denouement
is inartistic and unnatural, and being so—
as I have discovered, rather late, I admit —
it leaves me in a quandary.”
“Quandary! What are you talking about?
Don’t bother about the art or the nature
of the thing ; finish the play and quickly, for
heaven’s sake —as per the scenario and your
contract. That’s all I ask of you.”
“I can’t do it, Thurston. ‘ It’ll kill the
piece.”
A happy ending never killed a play yet.”
“This play, I say, is different.”
“It’s pretty good, I admit, but how ‘dif-
ferent’ ?”
“My others have been invented—so much
trick, fake. This is true—founded on fact.”
"Well, man alive, you’ve an easy job.
How did it end in real life?”
It hasn t ended yet 99
“But, surely, Borrodale, you’re w •
to keep us waiting until the g ? ln S
leached!” real end i s
“No. One more day. Tt’« Q u
barring the last page or so f i L ll Wri tten
to-night. There are several' wayfo/
this drama, and I' m groping nlot l endlD g
the right one. You vfte for tOT toWards
which means that the faithless w?f PPy one ’
back, the husband pardons her, andnhevT 68
a dog’s life ever afterwards.” ney llve
“What happens after my curtail # „
doesn t matter to me.” y Ultain falls
“But the less sophisticated audien ,
Dont you think the problem wm,H ce!
them? Another ending S ZvL?° rry
is the one that attracts me < S'
woman returns and for -Log
the husband spurns herefrom his Veness '
continues his life-work alone ” °° r and
“Bond Heavens, Borrodale— there’s ,
popular !’^ S t 0 wUch ° f 3fE
obviously-popular way out. I want lie
reality” ant hfe,
end'"?"' do “' t 3 '°“ *“ “ “ k.pp»
“Perhaps. M.v feeling is it couldn’t han
pen in this case. Of course, there nL K
another way even yet. I’m' really Saftb!
for inspiration. J un »
He paused and poured himself out a
drink. Thurston envied him his cal/
hand. What a nerve the man had! ady
The silence was broken by the rinei™
the door-bell. Borrodale, eviZtifsl /
what surprised, got up from his seat and
with a muttered “Excuse me,” went out of
the room.
Thurston heard the door opened, an ev
clamation of surprise from Borrodale
the words, “Laurie, I’ve come home*” in
a female voice. Then, after a moment’s
dead silence, a moan and the sound of
fall. The manager sprang to his feet and
hastened into the hall. At the farther end
Borrodale was in the act of shutting the
door. Just inside the passage lay a woman’s
ngure—huddled up, inanimate, portentous.
ill‘t> take her into the room' 1
called Borrodale.
Between them the woman was quicklv
carried into the den and placed on Borro- I
dale’s couch. Something rolled from her
hand on to the floor glinting in the lamp-
light. It was a small phial.
The two men gazed at the thing, horror
on Thurston’s face, impassivity on that of
Borrodale.
There was no sound in the room for a
space. Then Borrodale bent down his head
in a listening attitude close to the woman's
breast. After a few seconds, without look-
ing up, he spoke.
"Sorry to trouble you, Thurston, but would
you be so good as to call at the doctor’s
opposite and ask him to come here? And
don’t worry any more about the last act.
It will be ready to-morrow. There’ll be no
further difficulty about the denouement.”
EARDLEY TURNER.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
_yictorian_Off!ce—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Placed First
in order of merit by doctors, nurses, and mothers, through-
out the world ; prescribed by British doctors for 35 years;
used in all great hospitals, and convalescent homes ; ordered
by the Australian Red Gross for the Anzac hospitals.
This is the record of
Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.
Different from other foods and most highly nutritive.
Invaluable for backward and ailing children, in illness and
convalescence, and for aged persons.
Benger’s is a most interesting food to prepare. The changes it undergoes teach a lesson
In human digestion. It is all explained m our book, post free. Every mother should read it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, Engand.
BRANCH OFFICE: n 7, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U S.A.) 90, Beekman St. Dep6ts throughout CANADA.
$
w?
CM
m
i
$
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain—known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “jump”
—you get irritable —you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
&
The Wine of Life
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
‘ Wincarnis ’ for ‘ Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
he Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
»INGI_ETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICUT FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d.- for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
fl 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
“Indispensable”
—a word largely used in these days—may be said to accurately express
in so far as any single word can, what is the careful and considered
conclusion which has been arrived at by many people who use
Beeeham’s Pills. They consider that Beeeham’s Pills are “indispen-
sable” to their health, and, as a matter of course, to their happiness-
and they never allow themselves to be without a supply of this valuable
medicine in their homes. This latter is an excellent idea, and one
worthy of imitation—for there is no doubt whatever, that, as a preven-
tive medicine—one that may be taken with confidence when perhaps
only an “ out of sorts ” feeling is experienced and before any definite
ailment has developed—Beecham’s Pills are a positive boon. They do
good all round;- they tone up the stomach, correct the action of the
liver, regulate the bowels and are a powerful agent in purifying the
blood. It is certainly a good plan never to be without
BEECHAJVI’S
PlbbS
— 1 mt ’ m m m m »
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
( Patented )
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
rig 5
I A/. each
J| V / Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
f>9 S-
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOOR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .
jn
■
> sv:-v5 v :-v
ep
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents: HAMMOND (EL CO,, 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents: QLD. MOTORAGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 MarKet Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Ag'ents: GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
Do You Really Know How To Shave?
So many men don’t, that this is not intended as a joke. Most men
take twice the time needed, and endure unnecessary torture.
As a test, shave one side of your face with the preparation you
now use. Then shave the other side with
rem
SHAVING CREAM
0
0223)
! ngnrrensi
i SHdl/INS
w n
GirharoMowh
IhcmicalCa
N*U/fIRKrtIUM
1
following directions with every tube. You will be astonished
at the difference—not only in the way your razor acts, but in
the way the two sides of your face feel.
THE REASON IS
that Mennen’s is absolutely different in composition from every other preparation. It
took three years experimenting to perfect it. It softens the beard—requires no “rub-
bing in”—no relathering—no lotions.
Send penny
stamped envelope
for free sample of
MENNEN’S
TALCUM FOR
MEN.
at all leading chemists and stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
109 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Lower Cuba Street, Wellington, N. Z.
Trade Mark


MAN GROVITE
LEATHER
BELTING
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAJVGKOVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital’’ High-Speed Steel
CAPITAL
1
“ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE.
ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Dantiemora Steel Works, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
Fx3' fi'x3* fx3" £*4* *x4*
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. Lit
370 Kent St.,
SYDNEY*
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. ltd., Adelaide.
Fremantle.
John Reid 8c Nephews,
Kalgroorlie.
Brisbane.
“Fibrolite” Buildings
Cost Less, Last Longer.
Weatherboard has had its day; a cheaper,
more lasting and attractive material was
demanded. It is supplied perfectly by
HARDIE’S “FIBROLITE”(Reg)
AUSTRALIAN
Asbestos Cement Sheets
“FIBROLITE” reduces painting costs by
two-thirds, and makes other big savings. It
is Fire-proof, Rust- and Whiteant-proof.
Write for Sample and Booklet.
Manufactured by the Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Camellia, near
Parramatta.
James Hardie 8 Co.
’Phone 6239 (3 lines).
522 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also at Brisbane & Adelaide.
WOLFE^
schnaph
MADE FRON
, THE BEST SELECTED:
BARLEY
AND
ITALIAN
JUNIPER
BERRY
a
LOOK FOR THE NAME
DALGETY’S
Machinery
Department
MILLER'S POINT,SYDNEY
High-grade & Popular Agencies, comprising the following lines—
Tangrye Portable Oil Engine
Clayton Portable Steam Engine.
TANGYE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam
Engines.
TANGYE Boilers, Suction Cas Plants, Pumps, Jacks, etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction
Engines.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines & Cream Separators.
NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements,
JOHN BUNCLE & SONS Chaffcutters & Corn Crushers.
E.R.B. Separator Engines. CANE Milking Machines.
Catalogues posted free
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling Chaffcutter.
THE
■:
SHEEP SHEARING MACH IN E 5
have beaten all others
You can avoid breakdowns, worry, loss °f time. and
money by using the Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machines.
Thev are perfect machines —dependable, smooth-
running, absolutely efficient, and costing remarkably
little for upkeep. }>
In your own interests, decide to use a Wolseley.
Full particulars available from nearest Branch.
Dalgety & Company, Ltd. s Australasian Agents-All Branches.
.
m
:
Encourag'e Local Enterprise
DODGE I !™™ ROCKBREAKERS
With Manganese Steel Jaw Plates
is ?^S?X™ch S^ b CRuIHWG SoEJ?' HOTTING a TON"m£s, &"?, 3&-E?SpIESI&
carried in Stock.
Sizes to Order.
II Descriptive Circular
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD . 60 CLARENCE a STRE^[\S^^^
he Most Pop
Well Borer in Australasia
is the KEYSTONE
Traction& Non-T raction
Friction and for Cog Hoist.
it
w/
&ez
0 *
fiim
NOTE-KEYSTONE TOOLS in StocK at PRE-WAR # y
We Hue For Sale a NO. 4 TRACTION,with Full Equipment 8 Extra Tools.,' maiusm.
• If you do not wish to miss this opportunity apply at once to .
N niITHRIDGE LTD. City Office; Equitable Building, 350 George S.reet, ■■
