

D£j W The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. Gr. WATKINS &Z CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
€.S.X>
c~ffe QcCvance
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY A
BILLS DISCOUNTED v
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&I.C? LTP
HEAD OmCE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 0325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR SO-PAOE BOOK
L OSCILLATING
EZSH
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY,
'gold medal
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
m
For In- and Out-door Sleeping:,
American Wail Bed ‘C<
380 Georgre Street, near G.P.0., Sydney
2
dney
m
Hutton*s
Pilxco^^lc’ 1
6acoi\
'^COi£>' • %
CHUBB’S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
m
m
mm
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Si
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street , Sydney.
C.M.A.
}
Uf
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY,
same as others -
Malthoid
Roofing
Cool in summer, warm in winter, easy to lay
—is water-, aeid- and vermin-proof.
Amiwud
Wall board
Extremely artistic for walls and ceilings; for
new buildings or effective renovations.
Booklets and samples post free an request.
The Paraffine Paint Company (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challls House, Sydney.
BULLOCH LADE
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA ,
SPECr AL
S .V. o'.
GILBERT LODGE g
mm-
Armstrong-Whit worth
T.Y.R. HIGH-SPEED STEEL & TWIST DRILLS
IN STOCK.
SYDNEY.
Telephone, City 4126.
115-117 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
m
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoL3B.—No. 1931.]
[Thursday, February 15, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SIRIS
Actual Size.
CIGARS
THE EQUAL OF SMOKES OFTEN SOLD AT DOUBLE THE PRICE.
Boxes Of 50 .. .. ..11/6 Postage: N.S.W., -/9 ; Inter-State. 1/2
Boxes of 25 . _. . . ® . , >,> »» . //®.L » */•
. , . • . . U/“ »> ft */ u »
A Sample Cedar Cabinet of 5 will be forwarded on receipt of 1/6.
A. KEBBLE W HITE, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House," 21 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
:-*=*
HODSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
RILL THAT FLY.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520,
G.P.0., Sydney, and a sample tin of “Must-
die” Powder will be sent post free, or
forward 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
m
"MBSTDIE”
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
The Red Page
The Armies
British.
Arthur Conan Doyle’s first volume of
his history of the war, The British Campaign
in France and Flanders, 1914 (llodder and
Stoughton, 65.), is admirably written. He
claims that his narration is approximately
true, in many cases authoritative, and very
precisely correct in its detail. Owing to
the general rearrangements recently made
in , the Army the restrictions which forbade
the mention of numbered units have now
been removed. The awful battering that
the little British Army received during its
retreat from Mons is revealed in all its
dreadful detail. “No finer force.... has ever
left the shores of Britain. It is a conser-
vative estimate to say that within four
months a half of their number were either
dead or in the hospitals.” The first British
soldier to be killed in tlie war was probably
an aviator whose shattered machine was
found to the north-west of Mons. The
destruction of that machine was of great
strategic importance; for that aviator
would have returned with the unexpected
news that the Germans were in force in
that region. Mons would, no doubt, have
been immediately abandoned and the whole
Army brought swiftly into a position of
strategical safety. The British had against
them “the chosen legions of the most won-
derful army that the world had ever seen—-
an army that represented the last possible
word on the material and mechanical side
of war.” French discovered later that
instead of two German corps he had been
fighting four, and that the French armies
on his right were already in full retreat,
while nothing substantial lay upon his left.
He had to retreat to escape being sur-
rounded.
The rest of the story is that of a small clot
of khaki surrounded on three sides by a
sea of grey, the clot slipping swiftly south
and with equal swiftness growing smaller,
but every now and then pausing and holding
up that huge ocean of grey. The losses were
only paralleled by the heroism of that
valiant band. “History has shown many
times before that a retreating British Army
still retains a sting in its tail.” At Le
Cateau the men were so exhausted that
Smith-Dorrien said to French, “The only
thing for the men to do when they can’t
stand is to lie down and fight”; and French
had to assent. So the men fought, being
too tired to walk. There is no doubt that
this decision of Smith-Dorrien’s was crucial.
“Had the artillery gone the Army would
have gone. Had the Army gone the Ger-
mans had a clear run into Paris It is
impossible to doubt that the Germans, in
spite of their preponderating numbers, were
staggered by the resistance which they had
encountered. In no other way can one
explain the fact that their pursuit, which
for three days had been incessant, should
now, at the most critical instant, have eased
off. The cavalry and guns staved off the
final blow, and the stricken infantry stag-
gered from the field....So ended the peril-
ous, costly and almost disastrous action of
Le Gateau.”
d*
Conan Doyle admits that the troops
were utterly exhausted, disorganised as
bodies, but still preserving their moral as
individuals. The units of infantry had
become considerably mixed, and depleted by
quite 50 per cent., and the abandonment of
packs, etc., gave their pursuers every evi-
dence of a rout. “In many cases the whole
kits of the officers were deliberately sacri-
ficed,” says Doyle, with unconscious humor,
as evidently the kit of a British officer is
sacred; and adds: “Many men were
delirious from exhaustion and incapable of
understanding an order.” Yet the troops
re-formed. And Joffre admitted that the
flank of the long line of the French armies
had been saved by the hard fighting and
the self-sacrifice of the British.
But though the German Army was finally
driven back and pinned at the Aisne, the
Huns had another army ready, and the
Allies had not. Hence the race to the sea
and the first dreadful battle of Ypres. How
the depleted British Army held Ypres is
almost a miracle. Doyle rightly terms this
battle one of the decisive moments of the
world’s history, for the Huns almost held
the Channel ports within their hands. “It
was the closest thing to a really serious
defeat whieh the Army had had since Le
Cateau.” French is reported to have said
that there .was no time in the Mons retreat
when he did not see his way, but there was
a. moment in this battle when he thought
himself to be at the end of his resources.
“The fact that three divisions of infantry
with brigades which resembled battalions,
and battalions which were anything from
companies to platoons, destitute of reserves,
barred the path to a powerful German army,
is one of the greatest feats of military his-
tory. It was a very near thing.... The
fact that the enemy did not recoil and that
there was no sensational 'capture of prisoners
and guns has obscured the completeness of
the victory A German force of at least
600,000 men set forth to reach the coast,
and was opposed by a force of less than
half its numbers who barred the way. The
Germans did not advance five miles in a
month of fighting, and they lost not less
than 150,000 men without any military ad-
vantage whatever. .. .If this is not a great
victory, I do not know what military
achievement would deserve the term.”
AUSTRALIAN.
Philip F. E. Schuler, war correspondent
of Melbourne Age, writes a lucid and com-
prehensive account of the A.I.F. and its
Anzac adventure. Curiously, Schuler omits
all mention of the contingent that captured
the Hun colonies in the Pacific. The author
left Australia on the flagship of the first
convoy, went with the troops into camp at
Mena, and though not allowed to go to
Gallipoli with the transports, he managed to
get to the scene of action in a Greek trad-
ing steamer, and then with other corres-
pondents watched the operations from a
motor-launch. That craft was soon ban-
ished by the British destroyers; but a
couple of months later Schuler got General
Hamilton's permission to visit the Anzac
front.
In Australia in Arms (Unwin, 7s. 6d.)
Schuler throws new light upon several
events. The delay of three weeks suffered
by the first convoy was due, he tells us,
to the Dominion Government refusing to
despatch the 10 M.L. troopships without ad-
equate escort, and the warships had to go
across and fetch the Maorilanders. Schuler’s
presence on the flagship enables him to give
a full account of the Sydney-Emden fight.
He points out the dramatic fact that the
fleet of 40 crowded ships which was so
anxious to avoid a meeting with the German
raider should itself catch the Emden red-
handed. The 30,000 Australasians in the
fleet had a narrow escape of taking an
involuntary part in that fight; for the
Emden crossed the path of the convoy, which
had every light extinguished, barely three
hours ahead. “One can only conjecture what
might have happened" had the lights not
been doused.” Schuler gives a dramatic
account of that thrilling encounter. Both
the Melbourne and the Japanese warship
Ibuki itched to go; but Captain Silver, of
the Melbourne, as senior officer, had to stqy
with the convoy, and also had to quell the
Ibuki’s eagerness to join the Sydney. To
her second signal, “I wish go,” Captain
Silver reluctantly refused his permission,
pointing out that her duty was to guard
the convoy. After the destruction of the
Emden, a typical naval message was sent
to these two cruisers: “Sorry there was not
enough meat to go round.”
Another fact divulged is that in the first
days at Anzac Army Orders issued for a
general advance, which, if successful, would
have opened the way to Constantinople,
were altered by a mere chance word. In-
stead of this general advance all that was
attempted was a mere straightening of the
line. This great wasted opportunity “was,
to put it plainly, faulty Staff work.” Gen-
eral Bridges took the responsibility upon
himself, fearing that its execution would
open a dangerous gap in the Anzac line,
and the Army Orders remained unfulfilled
and, strangely enough, uneaneelled. “That
there should have been a general advance
is recognised on all hands, and there is no
doubt in the minds of many Generals with
whom I have spoken that it would have
been possible that day, had proper provi-
sion been made in the original orders for
the filling of the very vital gap in the
centre of our line. The whole lamentable
incident must be put down as indicative of
bad Staff work—for thus it was that the
whole future of Anzac was changed by a
chance meeting of three senior officers on
the main ridge and General Bridges’ firm
decision.”
MAORILAND.
Captain Malcolm Ross, official war-corres-
pondent with the M.L. Forces, is the author
of a rather scrappy collection of war studies,
entitled Light and Shade in War (Arnold,
55.). The collection has no plan, and the
author ought perhaps to be called the
Malcolm Ross Family, since his son, Noel
(late lance-corporal with the Anzacs and
Lieutenant, Territorial Artillery, and now
of The Times), and, presumably, his wife,
have also contributed. Instead of a book
dealing solely with the M.L. Billjim’s mate
from Maoriland—a book that the world is
waiting for, the Ross Family offer us jour-
nalistic sketches of Malcolm Ross’s sciatica,
his various dug-outs, sketches of England
and Scotland, impressions of the British
Navy and other ephemera. However, there
is enough of the M.L. Billzac to interest the
reader, though the Ross Family is rather
the conscientious journalist than the brilliant
war-correspondent. Memorable, though, is
his description of the two casualties at The
Landing. “At the bottom I saw a wounded
man bleeding badly over one shoulder. He
grinned hideously with his shattered mouth.
‘Got it where the chicken got the axe,’ he
wheezed, and fainted as the stretcher-bearers
came up to him.... Two bullets lobbed into
the trench parapet and then the man next
to me stood straight up and fell back over
my legs. ‘Mafeesh,’ he said quaintly, the
Arabic for ‘finished,’ and then more slowly,
‘Money-belt—missus and kids —dirty swine.
dirty .’ Then a strange thing happened.
Dying, shattered beyond recognition, he
rose to his knees and dragged his rifle to
the parapet. With a weak finger he took
shaky aim at the sky and fired his last shot,
to collapse finally in the bottom of the
trench.”
Useful, too, is Ross’s definition of the
various batches of men. The first contin-
gent became known as “The Tourists.”
They were out to see a bit of the world, and
to do any fighting that came along. Then
came “The Dinkums,” followed by “The
Super-Dinkums,” “The War-Babies,” and
“The Hard Thinkers,” the latter having-
thought a great deal before they came.
Incidentally, Ross’s use of “Tommy,” or
worse, “Colonial ‘Tommy,’ ” for an Anzac
private will surely not please that bloke. It
is high time that the M.L. private christened
himself.
From an interesting description of the
modern raid we learn that officers and men
taking part are now supplied with chewing-
gum. It is to prevent the men, waiting to
go over the parapet, getting into a state of
nervous strain that leads to coughing. A
cough might cost you your life. You can’t
smoke; but you are told to chew. The
Maori is interesting in raiding. He
fashions billhooks into the shape of the
mere of his ancestors; and he practises blows
that his people brought with them from
Hawaiiki, especially the temple-hit, which
severs the temporal artery and ends with a
screw that sometimes takes off the top of
the enemy’s, head.
Interesting journalistic stuff; but doubt-
less Malcolm Ross is at work on a real
book dealing exclusively and comprehen-
sively with the Anzac from Maoriland.
. “Hen” ; Why does The Bulletin devote
time and space as to whether Billjim should
include the Maorilander? I’m just back, so
that I don’t know how the argument started;
but I trust that it won’t develop into the
sort of thing one sees in daily papers about
an Australian in France looking sad and
annoyed when called an Anzac. ' Ask them
what they are and they will say “The ——
mugs.” Amongst each other, those that
arent ‘Scotty” are “Digger” or “Nugget.”
I think I can assure The Bulletin that
what used to worry us in the line was when
we were going to be relieved; and when in
our billets the nearest estaminet at which
to get the least awful beer.
‘Copabella”: I protest. Dennis makes Ginger
Mick to say: “Per I might be King o’ Footscray if
wed ad more discipline.” In the name of the
Prophet, why Footscray? Is it not enough that we
nave been an overworked pantomime gag for years:
I s “ enough that the ignorant and unthinking
.nolU their noses at our name on account of the sins
of Kensington, across the river from us and never
withm our municipal jurisdiction—without having
fathered upon us the social misdeameanor of the
P, * ■ Know ye that within the memory of our
Oldest Inhabitant there has never been a push in
Footscray except the harmless necessary one that
does nothing more frightful than polish the culvert
handrails at the Nicholson-street corner with its
time-payment clothes, and fill the shop doorways with
sputum, cigarette butts and childish barrack. Know,
too, that spite of its 30,000 people and the fact that
they are wholly industrialists apt to take their
pleasures more strenuously than dwellers in Anaemia
and Neuritis and other “tony” suburbs, its police-
court statistics compare favorably with the toniest.
I have haunted the local court and police station in
vain for copy, and the only big cases in years have
been due to the aberrations of visitors from other
parts. What then have we done that we should be
butchered to make a poet’s scansion fit? Dennis’s
part in this conspiracy of belittlement of one of the
most progressive and clean-living cities in Australia
is no doubt unintentional, but the belittlement is
there—-the name “Footscray” is a byword and a gibe
far and near. We of Footscray, knowing the place,
raise protesting hands to high Heaven and ask:
Why?
r “Coriander” rebukes us: The Red Page '
(25/1/T7), in reviewing lan Macleod’s
novel, Hack’s Brat, says that the life in
the mining camp is admirably drawn. Well,
I should like the opinion of a jury of con-
tributors to the Aboriginalities and Wild
Cat columns on this. The camp is fifty
miles the other side of Yantabulla, and the
miners take up small claims (no mention
of any Warden’s Court or office) and pro-
ceed to sink through ironstone (the hero
sank his shaft singlehanded) to reach the
clayey soil which shows them they are on
gold. Then a company comes along and
crushes the “quartz reef.” There is no men-
tion of any water supply, but teams bring-
ing machinery are bogged in a swamp. It
is explained that this is in drought time.
The landscape is freely decorated with bush
fires as a matter of everyday happening.
The Brat, on page 60, expresses a liking
for death-adders and rattlesnakes. In the
pub they speak a sort of stagey dialect,
Cynthia uses the expressions “elevated ass”
and “piffle,” and the pub takings are kept
in a treacle-tin in the bar. Even after
John has lived at the camp for some time
he knows no better than to ride from Yanta-
bulla on his bicycle, 50 miles of scrub and
sand, with a suit-case in his hand.
_ Pa S e abjectly apologises for not being
The .Wild Cat Column. What it humbly meant
when it suggested that the life in the mining camp
was admirably drawn was that the atmosphere of
the mining camp was admirably suggested: and
though it noted various small errors in the Sydney
part of the yarn, it did not think them large enough
for notice. Evidently the author knows about as
much of mining as the Red Page does. Possibly she
knows more. It would be dead easy.]
" Tom Collins "
According- to Bernard O’Dowd, “in the
whole Bulletin family there is no more
sincere writer than ‘Tom Collins,’ and in
his particular corner, of the library I do not
think I am doing injustice to anyone in say-
ing that on the whole our finest production
of prose literature up to the present is Such
is Lifer Bernard O’Dowd is welcome to
that generous opinion; but The Poems of
Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”), collected
and edited by K.B. (Lothian, Melb.; 55.),
does not bear out the first part of Bernard
O’Dowd’s contention, while with Furphy’s
prose works we are not at present dealing.
“Tom Collins'’ was certainly a fore-runner,
and this page agrees with O’Dowd that: “It
will not take much critical acumen to trace,
when one remembers how long ago most of
his works were written, the paternity of
more than one recent school of Australian
literature to ‘Tom Collins.’ ” Tom Collins
was a pioneer; he has all the crudity, the
strength, and the weakness of the pioneer.
His “Fsalm of Counsel” is straight Aus-
tralian, spoken at a time where there was
much need for that variety of speech; and
for that fine, definite Australian creed this
nation should be grateful. But his verses, as
a whole, display little but shrewd sense
clothed in clever rime; and to the reader who
meets him thus “collected” for the first
time, “Tom Collins” will he welcomed not for
his creed—which has by now become a com-
monplace, and is threatening to become a
narrow curse—but for his fertility in riming
and his casual Australian humor. It seems
a pity, since the volume may have some his-
torical importance, that it is disfigured by
obvious misprints.
The inclusion of his fugitive verse in this
collection does not help the reputation of
“Tom Collins.” “Brahm” is a remarkable
effort, and almost defies classification. It is
casual and colloquial, and worries the
modern reader, like so many of the pieces of
“Tom Collins,” by the author’s pertinacious
search for rimes for the one syllable; but ii
gets its effect of impressiveness by these
very qualities. It is metaphysics in topical
verse. “The Gumsucker’s Dirge” and “The
Schoolhouse on the Plain” (too long for quo-
tation) are excellent “Abo.” verses, full of
humor and sentiment, done with the neatest
of touches. These extracts from his “Psalm
of Counsel” adequately show the poet’s
message and method :
Though some good folks may take it ill,
As trifling with parsonic frill,
Thus saith the Lord to Jim and Bill,
In admonition stern and straight:
Ye hold from Me the brightest zones,
The fairest realm this planet owns,
Guarded on every side by Jones,
And standing yet inviolate. ...
Australia is the unit, mind!
With bounds unchangeably defined;
A continent to you assigned —•
That is the primary postulate.
One “angry cloth ” to call your own;
One scorn for every brand of drone;
One slant-eyed menace- — yours alone!—
Involving each ingredient State.
The Commonwealth is paramount;
City or province merely count
A.s streamlets from that central fount —
Provided you are Up To Date....
Now take the tip of Holy Writ —
You won't survive unless you're fit;
And something more than honest grit
Must go to make a people great.
An Asiatic boundary fence
Is little better than pretence
Unless you're white in every sense —
Unless, in fact, you're Up To Date. ...
Touching your own forefathers’ case,
Ask History what has taken place
Since Dago legions made the pace —
Say, Anno Domini 78.
Thrice has the Motherland been lost —
Three separate times has she been bossed
By enterprising foes who crossed
The German Sea or Dover Strait;
While Bulldog Boys, with clods and sticks,
Failed to frustrate their knavish tricks;
Hence Freedom's show was simply nix —
Which came of not being Up To Date....
Look out for snakes among the grass —
The noisy parish-minded ass;
The paltry devotee of Class;
The preacher of sectarian hate. .
To give such pests an honest deal,
With justice to the public weal,
You may respect their narrow zeal,
But count them foes icithin the gate.
Should they as candidates appear,
Dispose them in their proper sphere,
That is to say, upon their ear —
Your statesmen must be Up To Date. ...
The point of honor is your crux;
Run always straight and chance the duckt;
For in this world of constant flux
The higher type must dominate.
All fetich forms you may neglect.
But vices that command respect,
And virtues that are least correct, -
You ivill do well to cultivate.
Confront the proud, sustain the weak,
And not for you shall Freedom shriek
Till falls your Kosciusko peak—
Assuming you are Up To Date.


m
aae
No. BX4s.—Hand Mirror,
Electro-plated on Special
Metal, Wreath design, 13/6 ea.
llsi
r I”
No. BN4I. Hand
M i r ro r, Electro-
plated on Special
Me 11, Fleur delis de-
sign, 13/6 each.
No. BX3B. Clothes
Whisk, Electro-plated
on Special Metal, Fleur
delis design. Length lOin.
9/(> each.
THE selection of Dainty Toilet Requisites illustrated on
this page is representative of the immense assort-
ment offered at the New Palace Emporium. Many
other designs are illustrated in the Price List of Popular
Presents, Write for a copy, posted free on request.
Comparison will demonstrate the wonderful economy
assured by Anthony Horderns' Famous Low Prices.
No. BX4O. —Hair
Brush, Electro-
plated on Special
Metal, Engraved
Wreath design,
11 /fl each.'
.
rmmmuw
11
wHuiifl
m
&m
m
***%ZiQ,
': .v
■a
No. 22BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on Special Metal
ill Satin-lined Case, containing Brush and Comb 23/0
No. BX4B.—Hair
Brush, Electro-
plated on Special
Metal, Ribbon
design, 11/6 ea.
No. 23BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on Special
•Metal, in Satin-lined Case, containing Brush,
Mirror and Comb 42/-
£1
-
No. 24BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on Special
Metal, in Satin-lined Case, containing Brush,
Mirror and Goml> 42/-
No. BX43.—Hand Mirror,
Electro-plated on Special
Metal, Engraved design, 13/6 ea.
No. UX49. Hand
M i r r o r, Electro-
plated on Special
Metal, Oxidised- design,
13/6 each.
No. 8X36. —C lothes
Whisk. Electro-nlated
on Special Metal, Oxidised
design. Length, 10in., 9/6 ea.
8X47. 8X44.
V°. BX47.—Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Ribbon design, 13/6 each.
Vo. RX44. —Hair Brush, Eectro-plated on
Special Metal, Engraved design, 11/6 each.
No. 25BX.—Brush Set, lElectro-plated on special
Satin-lined Case, containing Brush and C0mb.....
.metal, in
23/6
8X46. 8X39.
No. 8X46. —Hair Brush, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Wreath design, 11/6 each.
No. BX39.—Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal Engraved Wreath design, 1 3/6 each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


K
Cartridges
Shoot Straight
and Sit Sard
These two cardinal points
of a good cartridge, and
also that of reliability, are
always found in Win-
chester ammunition. No
matter what caliber cart-
ridges you want or whether
they are for use in a rifle,
revolver or pistol you will
get the best results by using
Winchester make. They
are sold everywhere.
Accept no substitute,
insist upon having
EaAvJHns
Bk A Ji
p
Modern Chemistry
and the
Art of Shaving
At last Chemistry has
taken upon herself to
teach us the true art of
shaving, and to free us
from what many con-
sider a positive torture.
SHAVING CREAM
is the result of three years of study and experi-
ment in search of the ideal shaving medium.
This “cream” possesses the remarkable
quality of softening the toughest beard—no
hot water or “rubbing in” being necessary—the
shaving brush is sufficient to work up a thick
creamy lather that does not dry quickly, but
remains moist to permit of a leisurely shave.
| MEnrrem
l SHdwriij
rl CRMM
JtßMflßdPl^ffKa
tticniMLCa
NEWARK NJUM
m
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St,, Sydney, N. S, W,
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
[TALCUM FOR MEN.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
SsrsawMs rzsfrisr** aad
pe ? ple will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible hv
&SB them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful S but somewhat
are too selm-e o°n SU cuttlefish ’ «-abseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
the T °.? TH EASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
■piT^rycpSm 1 * harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay)
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube everv-
where. Post free l/o. Free sample posted. ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
©
of all
ccficnxi
rCUEKAL
are
Repeat Orders
“Another FEDERAL.”
This is the best proof of FEDERAL
quality: when motor-lorries perform their
duties with satisfaction they receive
praise from their owners.
Federal Lorries are paid the highest
tribute possible by their owners when they
say, “Another FEDERAL, please.”
It will nay you to use FEDWRATS
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
Anc+r II t C [° mi [ a ! l f of great financial strength and stability.
Australian Agents: Adelaide, EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney, KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland, TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative: BOX 635, Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition
Here is a representative FEDERAL fleet—ownerl by the Position
Associated Oil Co. of California—from an actual photograph
m
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
m
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
STEEL, GOLD & FOUNTAIN PEN MAKERS
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
are: you _
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
MR. GEORGE GOODMAN.
The following testimony is from Mr.
George Goodman, better known as
“Goody” in the profession, and one of
the most widely and professionally
known of a band of brilliant theatrical
managers who form an artistic link
between the theatrical past and
present.
Mr. Goodman has been associated with
the present firm of .J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., for a long number of years, ex-
tending back to its inception, when
as “Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove,” it occupied, as it, does to-day,
the foremost position in the theatrical
world of Australia, and was respon-
sible for the finest imported produc-
tions of Grand Opera and versatile
drama and comedy.
Mr. Goodman’s experience with these
productions and association with the
many “stars” imported under the Wil-
liamson management, is proverbial,
and the following letter will be of
considerable interest to the many
members of the theatrical profession
throughout the Commonwealth, who.
physically exhausted by the exacting
nature of their many roles, will find
in the medicine Mr. Goodman advo-
cates a nerve rejuvenator and health
restorer of remarkable power and cer-
tainty. Mr. Goodman writes from his
Sydney residence thus: —
BEVERLY, BAYSWATER ROAD,
CLEMENTS TONIC Ltd. DARLINGHLRST, 20/9/’l6.
srr, to ° r iack re, " ,hi " B *'~ p “*»»"»
«^ ! *" dU yu d * it , ofte “’ combined with an irritable, excited and weakened
llik .!!!!-!; alm ® st ruined my health. lam not wrong in stating that
is condition at times almost incapacitated me from my managerial duties.
T «-n a Ut a /i^c P i er | enCed a P leasin £ and grateful change after taking the medicine
summarised thas°:- S mentS T ° niC - After taking it > that change may be
1. Sweet, refreshing sleep EVERY NIGHT.
2. Real healthy appetite.
3 ‘ T li U e e . j°y ment of life through being absolutely well, which I
I testify "° n ° °* her 801,rce than this remarkable medicine to which
I am, Sirs,
(Signed) G. E. GOODMAN.
All Chemists sell CLEMENTS TONIC within the Commonwealth. It is
the very best remedy for “professional” weak nerves.
Clements Tonic, Ltd., Roselle, N.S.W.


Australia Riddled with
DeadlyKidivey Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps 'on, gradu-
ally getting a tinner and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have ’you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease: Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first tliing-
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, puffiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
m. wittPIIS
s? Vrr.
Kidney icßladderPills
| These Pills also act on the liver. *
NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE Q *
&e-.
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney .pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief —-every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or bow badly
you have suffered.
THE- GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
*j(lA Ifi’a
GOUT **
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Kemedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 229 Strand. London.
m
Do You Suffer from CATARRH ?
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
will cure Catarrh, Hay Fever, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Price, with Complete Treatment, only
10/-. Post Free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
Box 466,49 b Elizabeth St., Melbourne. (2
free: to
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. 3. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W .
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that i
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Soz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, 1 do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and "sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Cl
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of sis, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
A COOLING LOTION
FOR SUNBURN. BATHERS
MOTORISTS
AH Chemists 1/6 Bottle
OR POST FREE
‘BONNINCTON & CO., LTD.
179 ST.. SYDNEY
Mosquitobane
A friend s in need for
Camping. Fishing, the
Bush, Etc. Will keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
ALL CHEMISTS
1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
/®
17® HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON &.CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
[2
CELEBRATED
55
*
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young'-—-hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst. Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—•
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building’s. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart. [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
mm
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
(7^
BMW
m
m
m
«
A
Nerve
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by'simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
| HE habit of taking
* a half
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give ;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeps you fit —good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
s
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALU BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney,
Sole Proprietors, K. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Sruschen), Ltd., 63 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Night-Ride.
Faster speed w r e through the bracken,
Catch me closer to your heart!
Clench the reins before they slacken
Best the frighted filly start!
Oh. the blazing pennons whirling
Hu by jewels on the grass
And the burnished blossoms curling
Into phantoms as we pass!
Dowm the slender tongue of tracking
Let her fly, she cannot trip!
Back of us we hear the cracking
Of the scarlet stockman’s whip.
He is rounding up his cattle —
Fiery steers and steeds of gold,
Crimson stallions; hear them rattle
Through the forest fold on fold !
He is groaning with his plunder.
Turn her head toward the creek !
Though his feet be swift as thunder
We will hear his angry shriek
As we gallop helter-skelter
Through the cool and plashing tide,
To the land of peace and shelter
On the safe and southern side.
On he follows. Nearer, nearer,
King his brumby’s brazen feet.
Clipping-clopping, clearer, clearer—
Death’s the fire we must defeat.
Keep your lips on mine, my darling.
Let the flame-flowers lick my hair;
Love can brook the angry snarling
Of their passionate despair.
Cross the creek —he cannot follow!
Love will ever conquer all.
Down we canter through the hollow
Safe at last from fear and fall.
* * * *
Thus I fancied we were speeding
Nil night long, with Love’s control,
From our Passion and its pleading
To the safety of our Soul.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
New Moon.
A tiny wind that stirs the leaves
Creeps rustling o’er the high hill-crest
To fill with scent of gathered sheaves,
The dim lands fading to the west.
Stars twinkle shyly in its wake,
Around it plumy moths arise,
And at its sigh in every brake
Flash fairy limbs and laughing eyes;
Flash slender limbs athwart the dusk
Where drone the beetles, booming, blind.
Mark ! the wee feet on blade and husk !
The fairy horns upon the wind !
Hark to the honeyed whispering tone
That wreathes with echoes delicate,
With fairy laughter lightly blown,
The portals of night’s opening gate.
Where bubble-like a lantern swings
Its fragile globe of lucent gold—
The thin, new moon that clasping rings
The glimmering circle of the old.
VICTORIA.
SYD O.
Blood Tryst.
Now who urtj, they would come to me
Down the night, down the night?
There’s a grave below the hawthorn tree,
And a broken wall at the hill’s grey knee,
And a stain of blood on the soul of me
For an hour’s delight.
They whisper long, the grey ghosts three,
Through the night, through the night—
Drey ghosts of all that a man would be,
Grey-ghosts of all that a man would see
A hen the soul of him broke in pieces three
For an hour's delight.
A rose she wore for all to see—
Sweets of night, sweets of night—
And she set her mouth on the soul of me
With the fire of her kisses throe times
three....
Oh. it grew too dark for my soul to see
In the dusk’s delight.
Now who was this would come to me
Down the night, down the night?
A bitter word. His sword went free.
And a bitter point at his throat would be,
And the blood of him red on her and me
For an hour’s delight.
Who dug a grave below the tree
All the night, all the night?
A lire was in the soul of me....
She clung and sobbed about his knee
And she cursed me black below the tree
For an hour’s delight.
Oh, fair she was to touch and see—
Soft as night, soft as night—
But the dead man’s eyes I could not flee.
Nor the black of the curse she set on me;
And the blood between us was red to see
For an hour’s delight.
They whisper long, the grey ghosts three,
Through the night, through the night.
The ghost 6f all that a man would be.
The ghosts of love and the shame in me
"When the soul of me broke in pieces three
For an hour’s delight.
Why will ye walk and come to me
Down the night, down the night?
There’s rest' in the grave by the hawthorn
tree
And the deaths I die are three times three
One death for you and all deaths for me
For an hour’s delight!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


The “Watershed" Patent Oilskin
PERDRIAU
OILSKINS AND MACINTOSHES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY WATERPROOF,
The materials used in the manufacture of Perdriau Waterproof
Clothing are of the very highest quality, whilst our process
of proofing these materials renders leaking an impossibility.
The “ WATERSHED ” OILSKIN
PATENT
The most protective coat ever invented.
Note the special features shown in illus-
tration :—-
1. Buttons down the side instead of
in front, thus providing a seamless apron
front for all wet weather uses.
2. Seamless epaulet cape covering all
shoulder seams.
3. Overlapping sheath in front.
Made in two weights:—
“ DUGONG WATERSHED,, light
weight for general use 35/
“ RAINBOW-WATERSHED,” stout
make for rough wear 28/6
The “PERDRIAU” MACINTOSH
Purs Para Rubbsr-proofsd. Kvery coat
is perfectly tailored from well-cut models
in our own up-to-date workrooms. The
seams are double stitched and solutioned,
thus making positively sure of there being
no leak.
“ Every Macintosh Bearing the Brand
‘ Perdriau’ is Guaranteed Absolutely
Water, Wind, and Weather Proof.”
The “ Raglan” Macintosh.
MEN S RAGLANS, in various assorted pleasing shades from .. .. 35/
WOMEN’S RAGLANS, in various assorted pleasing shades, from 30/
YOUTHS’ AND MAIDS’ MACINTOSHES.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STORES.
PERDRiAU RUBBER Go. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, NEWCASTLE.
BRISBANE,
m
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a Quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
Buggins said to Muggins—
“l’ll sell you this house for a song.”
And Muggins said: “Very well, I’ll give you my notes
for it.”
Which is all right as far as it goes, but, like the two-foot yardstick, it
doesn’t go far enough.
Vou can buy a tin of
D
□
“REX”
Camp Pie
for a song—we hope you can sing in silver tones, and by doing so strike the
note of economy.
Also “REX” CAMP PIE will harmonise with your palate because it is
flavorsome, tune you up because it is made from good," carefully-selected
morsels of meat compounded, seasoned and cooked according to a well-
tried formula.
It runs the whole gamut of Meal-time needs and Sandwiches. Try it.
The Grocer will respond to an encore.
“REX”
LUNCHEON CHEESE.
Always keeps well in any weather.
Try it.
UNCHEON
POCt|
GC
RE
mm
Also ask for—
“ Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 1341 b. tins.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly, IY z and 21b. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese in soz. decorated tins,
and soz. enamal jars.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of " Rex ” Pure Food Products.
austraH!
The ABBOT
Australian Germ-proof
Water Filter.
Pure water is as necessary to
health as pure air.
Write for New Illustrated Folder
giving full information.
MANUFACTURERS—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
'AaupAs ‘ IS 9SJOBO OSC
'ONianna aiavxmba
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
Destined for a Long Life.
Scrupulous Manufacturing Methods.
It is difficult to conceive how one of these cars can
outlive its usefulness if given even ordinary care.
They are destined for a long life.
The same scrupulous manufacturing methods that
make for efficiency and economy are an assurance of
years of service.
Standard Touring Car ... ,£340
Standard Roadster £335
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales & Queensland.
r


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 3S, —No. 1031.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1917.
Price 6d.
HOLMAN VISITS ENGLAND.
THE DEPUTATION: “We have no work and are starving!”
THE YOUNG MAX IN A HURRY: “Citizens, I grieve for you. Be patient. Sit down on the kerbstone and I’ll see if I can’t induce somebody to open
another pawnshop. What more can anybody do for you?”


The BUlletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. tvhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after tlse arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt,
Hono Iv'ong.- —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
JOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bloz. to 10oz., 2%d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, lioz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1817.
“SCABBING” ON THE CHILDREN.
This is the record of the Commonwealth’s
performance as an importer and exporter of
goods other than gold during the last two
years:—
Imports. Exports.
1915 .. £68,599,914 £00,231,908
1916 . . 81,118,605 73,363,394
In the financial year 1915-16, July to June,
the exports were short of the imports by
£12,717,356; in the previous year by
£5.878,871. Having started the war by
spending about half a million a month more
on imported goods that could be paid for
with the products sold, proceedings have been
livened up until the margin between what
Australia is buying and what it is selling
is substantially over a million a month, for
on the figures of the past half-year it is clear
that the imports are steadily increasing.
Prior to 1912 Australia had for several
years a balance of exports over imports. In
that year the slide commenced. The rush
downhill is now on greased rails. Debt is
being built up at a rate which can have only
one possible result. Meantime it is an
illuminating circumstance that the more
frantically the nation borrows the more
monumental grows the trading debt against
the people—the greater the drain for interest
from a relatively lower production.
All this mass of imported material has to
be paid for either by goods or by loans; and
it is by means of the lOU that the foreign
bondholder and the exporter to Australia are
now having their demands satisfied. How
much longer the Commonwealth Parliament
proposes to sanction so gross an abuse of
the national credit this paper has not even
the ghost of an idea. Nor is it possible to
even guess what kind of devil’s broth Aus-
tralian public men imagine they are brewing
for the community. But there is nothing more
certain than that if the Commonwealth had
a Government worthy of the citizens’ regard,
some explanation would at least be given of
the grounds upon which it sanctions a policy
of ruin. And particularly would the Minis-
try explain how it imagines that the Aus-
tralian people are going to grapple with the
frightful debt of war, plus the burdens con-
tracted in previous years, if they go on
plunging into debt for imported goods at the
rate of a million a month. .It is the wildest
and most reckless gamble ever indulged in
by any country on earth. While flustered
time-servers are blithering about “winning 1
the war” the country's strength is being
sapped away. While phrase-mongers talk
about “developing our industries” they
pawn the public assets, and the proceeds are
used to give outside artisans aud
tu.rers a job. While the air is filled With
loud shouts about conserving out* strength,
the Customs Departmeht reports that in the
last six months Australia spent £12.705,475
on imported apparel—four millions more
than during the final half of the previous
year. In six months preceding January 1
the volume of foreign merchandise landed in
Australia was greater than for the whole 12
months of 1906.
* * * *
No excuse for this maniacal waste is
possible. To gird at the public for “private
extravagance” is futile. Individuals are not
to blame. It is the public policy that is
wrong—the evil habit, from which even war
has failed to purge our Parliaments, of
promoting a bogus prosperity by discounting
bills .payable the day after to-morrow. It is
easy for people with long tongues . and
feather-heads to say that the country will by
“increased production” make good the trade
debts of these later years—that our great
powers of productiveness are being enhanced
by our borrowings! for public works. Trash of
this sort long ago ceased to be believed even
by the people who employed it. Actually their
borrowings are for millinery and ornate
shoes and whisky and cigars; for all the
complicated stock-in-trade of t the Importer,
the effect of loans always being to load us
with manufactured goods to the value of the
money raised. When the politician borrows
a few millions in London the transaction
merely consists of postponing payment of a
sheaf of bills for embalmed fish and silk
stockings and musical instruments and so
forth, utilising the money to keep Aus-
tralians moving behind a pick and shovel or
running a shop where cash, really owing to
someone at the other end of the earth, is
taken over the counter in exchange for stock
procured on tick. And the ultimate fate pi
a country given to lunacy of this kind is
that in process of time it becomes inhabited
by a community spending most of its exist-
ence struggling to pay interest on the ship-
loads of boots and pants and potted aspara-
gus and motor-cars that in the distant past
its fathers trafficked with. This is what
Australia is deliberately preparing for now.
Increased production will not be for the
benefit of the people who produce. The
people who will not produce now, and who
are being incited by Parliaments to clothe
themselves in glad-rags, are “scabbing” on
their children. The cataract of imports is
the outward and visible sign of an economic
and industrial sabotage more sinister than
anything the wildest visionary of the I.W.W.
even dreamed of.
* * *
And while Australia has been importing
the products of oversea labor at a rate un-
dreamed of in days of peace, the Premier of
N. S. Wales is heard moaning to a deputa-
tion of Laborites that he cannot “provide
employment” for some thousands of men who
were employed before on the proceeds of
loans raised to keep people employed in
another country. The more Holman has
borrowed the more he has had to borrow to
keep the game going. The more people he
has employed the greater has grown his
danger and theirs. They have done nothing
towards the vital task of building a nation.
They have been working in order that a
greater variety of imports might be accumu-
lated. And the horrified Holman is now in
the position of a man called upon either to
borrow incredible millions or to explain when
the great increase of production that his
other millions were going to lead to _ will
happen. The circumstances for explaining
this are very favorable, for not only is in-
creased production wanted to fill up the hole
created by explosions in France, but it is
urgently required to liquidate the charges
involved in the importing mania. If by his
frantic distribution of lOU’s and dealings
with Norton Griffiths and Co., and by
the valiant achievements of six other
Treasurers, Australia cannot be brought to
a stage at which she can produce enough to
pay for imported clothes and food and
drinks, the question when she will, and how
the war is going to be paid for, is worth
thinking about. The people should be told
what views Holman and the rest of them
entertain on this subject. At present it
looks as if they are going on “all in” prin-
ciples, and damning the consequences. Mani-
festly this cannot go on for ever. The pro-
blem now is whether the Australian people
can produce enough to provide for their
necessities instead of producing an intoler-
able burden for the descendants. If they
can they ought to start instead of slouching
round praying that someone shall lend the
nation a million or two to buy production
from people somewhere else. These import-
figures yell their warning that in every
the policy of self-reliance,
industrial development and nationalism,
preached by the glib tongues of political
partisans up and down the Commonwealth,
is being strangled.
WAR WITHOUT BLOODSHED.
After all, Woodrow Wilson may be teach-
ing the world some of its biggest lessons.
If his enunciation of the principle of Peace
without Victory should be followed by a
practical attempt to conduct War without
Bloodshed, the Millennium might yet get a
start in a fashion that would surprise
the Professor himself. The plain fact, which
all men must admit, stands written in blaz-
ing cordite and red blood, that the whole
theory of war is a setting of the boot above
the brain and a minimising of the values of
all things which were previously regarded
as standing for the uplift of humanity.
Brute force, backed by everything noisy and
destructive, must settle the international
controversy; and pure intellect and nobler
emotion have very little say in it. Tom
Carlyle valued the works of Shakspeare
at a greater price than the whole Indian
Empire, and any person possessed of the
higher civilised intelligence will agree with
him; but Macbeth wouldn’t stop a German
attack on a single furlong of trefiches, nm-
could Hamlet turn aside the bullets of so
much as one Turkish snipei’. The finest
achievement of the wbrld’s greatest artist
can be destroyed by. the bursting Of a Single
shell; find the hOblest philosophic idea ol’
religions purpose has a poor chance of hold-
ing its own against the blind, mad butchery
Of a bayonet' charge. More than this, war’s
vile feature is that it reduces to a mere
futility the best that evolution has done in
the way of producing manhood. Some-
where in the Belgian ranks Maeterlinck
is serving his country. He stands for some-
thin? . infinitely high in the development of
his race, for a glory of mental achievement
worth whole generations of lesser men.
Yet war takes no account of all this; and a
Prussian swashbuckler with an intelligence-
which would have been in no way remarkable
in the Stone Age is easily his master in the
field. There is certainly a kind of intellect
required for handling vast armies and
planning the strategy of campaigns; but
great generalship, closely analysed, dues nbt
imply great manhbod. Some generals pf
lofty renown wefe thin-minded, hard people
with a capacity in one direction only and a
dullness of sensibility that made that capa-
city workable in the stress of battle. Othef
great warriors—like the late tk J. CiESAfi;
of Rome—Were, not such marvellous strat-
egists or tactieiaiiSj but by theit big intel-
lectual power Were magnificent headers bf
hiem The latter ate, however, tne excep-
tions. War dbek not make its appeal to the
brain. Its business is the boot and the fist,
and heads are cheap enough when the guns
shout their chorus.
* * * *
Necessarily, war, which is the black back-
ground of all international politics, has viti-
ated and destroyed not only personal values
but State values as well. _ A country is
considered great in proportion to the num-
ber of rifles it can fire and the Weight. of
shells it can throw. A small cbuhtry which
had riseii, to the highest leyel Intellectually
and morally and Which stdod aS the beacbil-
light bf mankind Would be of no account
befelde a vast horde of semi-savage fighting
men organised under a brutal and inflexible
despotism. There was a time when the
little State of Athens—a republic smaller
in area than the modern Montenegro—was
easily worth all the rest of the world put
together. Had everything else been sud-
denly wiped out with poison-gas or fire
from Heaven, the remaining race of men
could have been very little poorer and might
have been infinitely better off. But modern
war can take no account of such things;
for, as a fighting force, the highly civilised
nation would seem to be at a distinct dis-
advantage in arguing with a nation of semi-
barbarians, even if equal to. it in numerical
strength and material Wealth. It is simply
a, ease bf putting the skilled artisan and
the poet to hght the nigger pugilist and the
ship’s bliity; The more highly civilised men
may win by superior science, but the
chances are they have little enough know-
ledge of the thing that is called scieuce in
the realm of butchery. Every further ad-
vance towards the bigger dreams of man-
kind must aggravate this disadvantage; and
it is evident that humanity as 'a whole can-
not get far forward while the savage in man
is allowed to retain the power of destroying
all that has been achieved. Every nation of
modern Europe really repudiates the idea
of war and regards it with loathing and
contempt; yet every nation has by custom
come to regard the awful thing as one of
the settled conventions of humanity and, in
spite of its better sense, glorifies it by refer-
ences to past national achievement in the
shambles called battle. What we want is a
new custom, a new convention based upon
modern thought and feeling. That war is a
permanent feature of the universal man-
scape must be taken, as an axiom, but that
war need involve murder and bloodshed and
every sort of crime is utterly ridiculous.
There are far finer weapons than the sword
and gun, and far keener wounds can be in-
flicted than those made in the flesh of armed
peasants. In a word, war should be lifted
to the intellectual field and its ruthlessness
allowed play only by means of those things
which man possesses as man distinct from
the animal.
* * * *
Consider the possibilities. If, by a con-
gress of the nations, meeting, say, in 1900, it
had been decided that arms were no longer
to be manufactured by any nation, and that
only an international police force should
have military training, the trouble of 1914
would have been met by Germany and Aus-
tria declaring war on France and Russia.
At once the nations concerned would have
cut off all trading and social relations and
ignored each other’s existence. No French
thought, idea, manufacture or product would
have crossed the frontier, and Germany
would have strictly kept all her Ivultur,
dyes, chemicals and blowers on brass instru-
ments for home consumption or sale to
neutrals. Outsiders would have watched the
struggle with keen interest; and the nations
concerned would have used every endeavor
to produce things new, valuable and strange
in which the others could have no share.
German propaganda in England and
America would have devoted itself to the
task of making France look ridiculous in the
eyes of her neighbors, and Gallic invention
would have taken the same humorous turn.
There would have been loud mockery of
French fashions in Berlin and keen jest
at German table manners in Paris; and all
the while vague ideas of the beauty and
wonder of forbidden Parisian delights would
have disturbed Gretciien and irritated
llans, while French scientists wondered if
they were being left behind and French
socialists chafed at the notion that Fritz
was putting Marxian theories to a practical
test. No railway traffic across the frontiers
would have been permitted, no letters
allowed to pass between the rival countries;
and each would have done its utmost to so
work the world’s money markets as to
destroy the credit of the other. It would
have been real war, war to the last franc
or mark, but not a drop of blood would have
been shed. The fighters would have been
the financiers, inventors, manufacturers,
scientists, painters, poets and musicians—
in fact, the organised and embattled intelli-
gence of the warring nations; For a year or
tWo it Would have been impossible to tell
how siifch strife was going; then results
would have begun to , manifest themselves,
dhie natioh which could db least Without the
Other would have begun to waver. A feeler
for peace would have been thrown out and
possibly responded to; and the final result
would be Peace without Victory, of the
Wilson pattern. The mere statement of
the course of such a war looks mad to minds
accustomed to the frightfulness of our daily
meal of horrors; but it is sane enough. If
men must fight, that is how they should
fight—indeed it is the only way in which
they can fight as men. Up to 1914 the
nations fought as wild beasts; since then
the Germans have taught them to fight like
devils.
WAR ORPHANS AND THEIR WEL-
FARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Fhe first principle of patriotism is national
integrity. War orphans, direct descendants
from tiie fittest of the race to-day, represent
the flower, in bud; of the race; and stand for
that integrity:
M'ecognising tfiisi; each fieliigefent is. filah-
iiitig for the preservation Bf these cliilateii.
A hateful analysis of the different methods
in, practice shows that France has devoted
most energy and shown most foresight in her
efforts; Britain, most advanced in many
social movements, has paid as little as any.
It is not, I believe, for lack of heart. It is
rather for want of thought. It is to stir up
thought that I put here on record what our
noblest Ally has done.
On August 2, 1914, close on the heels of
the mobilisation order, the following circular
Was issued throughout France i
Any child whose father i§ mobilised; if brbugiit
tB the People’s University of Paris, will bfe.imffle-
diately received without any formalities, and most
affeetibriately taken care of by friends of the Univer-
sity and housewives of the neighborhood. Fathers are
assured that, whatever happens, their little ones will
never be abandoned to vice and misery.
This promise, emanating from a popular
movement amongst the women of Paris,
noted philanthropists, litterateurs and public
men too old to take up arms, laid the foun-
dation of the Association Nationals des
Orphelins do la Guerre, which is to-day one
of the most complete, humane and system-
atic efforts that the world has ever seen.
The society proceeded to the root of the vital
problem at once. It received, maintained
and educated orphans, first at Its‘own ex-
pense, and later with the aid of national,
departmental, local and particular subsidies,
tjnder able administration its good Services
SOon spread over the length and breadth of
the nation, improving as they matured. So
Well had the matter in hand in the Republic
and its dependencies been mastered that,
when Italy opened hostilities against the
common enemy, it was decided to receive
motherless children of mobilised Italians;
and, later, when gallant little Servia was so
hard-pressed, the society organised an expedi-
tion to that hapless storm-centre to succor
what infants were fortunate enough to escape
the heel of the ruthless invader and the
rigors of the terrible retreat through
Albania. Incidentally, the privations endured
by this expedition are indescribable.
' The children thus succored live in colonics
which have been established in various parts.
Each colony, or settlement, is worked upon
a family system, based upon a selection of
adopted mothers widowed or disabled h,v
the ravages of war. Each one of these
resides in a separate pavilion or villa, and is
entrusted with the care of 10 orphans. In
order that they may enjoy the advantages of
social intercourse in addition to the comtorts
of a home thus provided, the children have
meals and play in common. So successful
has this system proved in the working that
the society has refused many generous offers
of palatial buildings as seminaries, -colleges,
etc., on the ground that such large establish-
ments would involve a return to the old
orphanage and boarding-school 03
maintenance and education, which they
abhor. .
“Illegitimates” come under no ban. iherc
is no stain upon the child ; and the society
will allow none to be put there.
The younger orphans are placed in child*
nurseries, where healthy foster-mothers,
chosen from widows of the w T ar and passed
by leading physicians, suckle one infant each
besides their own. Primary education is
undertaken by school-mistresses, appointed
and paid by the State, who reside amongst
their pupils. It is the care of the society
to give the wards an occupation and teach
them a trade, always recognising that the
revival of the economic life of the nation
alone will furnish a decisive character to
military victory. Hence advanced educa-
tion is entrusted to professional men crippled
in the war; while others unable to earn a
living at their trades have the satisfaction
and comfort of teaching them to the offspring
of fallen comrades. . »
The health of the orphans is assiduously
looked to, and huge sanitariums have been
erected in the healthiest localities in I ranee
for the invalids and weaklings.
As regards religious training, the wishes
of the dead father, which-the society takes
the utmost pains to ascertain, are strictly
carried out. All denominations mix in one
colony. The society sets its face against
parcelling out the future citizens of the
nation into separate orphanages according
to their religions. Instead, it endeavors to
show its respect for the dead by maintaining
among their descendants that principle ot
national unity for which the fathers sacri-
ficed their lives.
Through the courtesy of Leon Ciiarbon-
net, an eminent man of letters, and his
estimable wife, who officiate over the large
colonies in the south of France, I have been
able to visit these settlements from time to
time and watch their development, ine
more one sees of them the more one must
admire this organisation, which at once safe-
guards the young and finds congenial and
useful employment for the wounded ana
widows of the fallen; and the more one must
. thrill for that noble patriotism whicn
brought it into being. I have seen these
“families,” and never, even at home, been
among healthier, heartier and happier; and


the adopted mothers seem to be full of tender
affection. I have seen subscription lists
built sou by sou and franc by franc out of
the poilu’s meagre pay. I have visited, the
great workshops where the blind and maimed
teach the sons of the nation; I have watched
the huge sewing and cookery classes, and
the schools of nursing and domestic economy
where the young daughters are learning to
be of service to the State; and if the bright
faces of the youngsters are symbolical, as,
no doubt they are. of the France-to-be, it is
certain that the new Republic will be as
sunny-dispositioned as the old. But above
and before all France has kept her compact
with those who made the grand sacrifice, and
in keeping it has assured her most cherished
ideal —national integrity.
* * * *
And what of ours? We rank as one of
the most patriotic of nations. The huge relief
funds in hand testify to Australia’s gener-
osity. Our soldiers as fighting men have few
equals. They are the best paid in the world.
Our women have faced casualty-lists with a
silent fortitude and worked for the creature
comforts of their men in a manner worthy
of the highest traditions of any country. The
war pensions and amelioration schemes have
been drawn up liberally and thoughtfully.
And yet no scheme guaranteeing the future
welfare of every war orphan in the Com-
monwealth has been inaugurated. Our good
friends at home have looked to the needs of
the Australia of to-day and overlooked that
sacred heritage left by those of our kin now
sleeping in warrior graves somewhere in
France, and in that remote resting-place by
the waters of the blue Aegean.
FRANCE.
J. HAMILTON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Uselessness of Platitudinising.
Thus Frank Tudor, making a few well-
chosen remarks at a Melbourne recruiting
rally the other evening : —■
Personally, lie believed that if the war had been
postponed for a few years it would have been
possible that the nations of the earth would have
become civilised enough not to submit any difference,
however great, to the force of arms.
Voices: No ! Rot!
Mr. Tudor: Of course, none of us thought to-day
as we thought two years and a half ago. There was
a blood lust among the people to-day. We saw red
and thought red, and were unable to reason as we did
two years and a half ago. When we read of a
number of enemies being “wiped out” and sent to
their Maker we rejoiced. We did not think as we
used to think. We needed, in fact, to think back.
There is no meat on bones of this sort. It
is the language of futility, of inaction —-of
the queer individual who, when his house is
on fire, sits down to moan and groan and
wring his hands and warn the firemen not
to turn the water on lest they capture a
cold in the bead. What does it matter to
anyone except the members of the Bung-
wunga Debating Society what might have
happened if the war had been “postponed
for a few years”? The solid fact is that it
was not postponed; wherefore the people
at whom the German leaped have to deal
with a war in full bloom, not an adjourn-
ment that no one moved. And what
advantage is it to speak in a regretful tone
about people rejoicing over enemies sent to
their Maker or any other address? War is
hideous. The horrors of it are beyond
human conception. It is murder in whole-
sale quantities. Its demoralising influences
are fearful in their scope. But if the enemy
is not provided with a passage over the
Styx our own men will be, and that is the
beginning and end of the whole atrocious
business. People can be profoundly grieved
by the slaughter, shocked past expression
by the poignant tragedy of the trenches, and
yet be morally justified in entertaining feel-
ings of satisfaction that their army looks
like giving the other side a whipping. At
the battle of Naseby it was a matter for
profound regret by Oliver Cromwell that
a man whom he detected doing great execu-
tion for the Royalists was not battling for
him and the Lord instead of for Belial.
Cromwell was a practical person who
wanted to win. If Tudor wants the com-
munity to “think back” he can remind them
of nothing more appropriate than that Ger-
many made war on Australia, that the Ger-
man is not yet beaten and has been sending
a considerable number of Australian soldiers
to their Maker without remorse. And hav-
ing done this it seems a fair thing that he
should help them to think forward a bit.
Exhortations to be careful not to “see red,”
to cut “rejoicing” out of the schedule, to be
sorry the disturbance started, leave matters
hanging in the atmosphere and the enemy
banging at the door.
Winning the War and Squabbling Over
Jobs.
Hughes talked and talked again last week
about his attempt to form a National Gov-
ernment. He made no such attempt. He
did not want to. And Cook was in the
same boat. The “invitation” extended to
Tudor was forwarded, after the Tudorites
•had been reviled for many weeks, with the
certain knowledge that it would be rejected.
It was part of the game. Both Cook and
Hughes knew that they were only making
a demonstration for the entertainment of the
public—that their negotiations have all along
been based upon frowsy considerations of
party and personal advantage. The yarn
that these two men have been engaged in an
honest effort to rescue the Commonwealth
Parliament from the swamp into which it
has wandered is too thin, their talk about
“winning the war” just so much shoddy.
Hughes has said he “earnestly desired that
the men and women of all parties should
sink their differences and join in concentrat-
ing upon the great problems of the war and
Australia’s participation in the struggle.”
Employed by Hughes in the circumstances
of the moment, with Parliament as it is, the
temper of the people as it is known to be
and his reputation as a spinner of empty
phrases so firmly established, these words
were as devoid of meaning as they were of
honesty. What Hughes did not say was
this :—•
I want the Libs and Labs to join the Ministry, on
„his basis —that I shall be Prime Minister; that I
shall go to London; that we shall arrive at a surrep-
titious scheme for working the outside machine; that
there shall be an understanding about candidates at
the general election; that we shall get the British
Parliament to amend the Constitution and postpone
the election.
But it is what has been in his mind. His
tricky retention of an office held in defiance
of every principle of Parliamentary Govern-
ment, has been a daily proof to' the people
that he would rather see the Australian
Parliament paralysed and the country de-
prived of Responsible Government than per-
mit the Legislature to perform its proper
functions. He is an adventurer, enabled by
the Party system to seize the Parliamentary
machine, and desperately trying to gull the
public with cackle about the war while he
struggles to save his bacon. Yet this paper
does not blame him for what he is. He is
merely the product of a cursed system for
which the blame rests with the people.
The Cocky’s Htfme and. His Missus.
Ax item of interest at the next Easter
Show in Sydney should be the competitive
plans for dwellings to house returned soldiers
and other settlers on the land. This comes
of a prize offered by the G.-G. Evidently
his Ex. in his wanderings through the bush
has been smitten by the appalling architec-
ture. There is a horrible failure in the
average bush home to study climatic and
other local conditions. Apart from the appal-
ling travesty of human dwellings—medleys
of bagging, kerosene-tins and old galvanised-
iron that alternately freeze and grill the
cocky’s missus and kids—bush architecture
literally shrieks for reform right through,
from the undiluted tin box, dumped down in
an atmosphere of sun and sand and flies, to
the typical “suburban villa,” with its three-
foot verandah, narrow passage and orna-
mental windows, which is mostly the heart’s
pride of some “progressive” cocky who has
done well and believes in “making himself
comfortable.” These latter horrors are
among the most melancholy sights to be
found in the bush, and in commonsense are
about a million decades behind the old
station homestead, with its generous veran-
dahs all round, its big halls and windows, a
shingle roof for choice, and thick stone or
pise walls. The first consideration should be
fresh air and escape from the heat; space
is a mere detail, as there is no “fifty-foot
frontage” to cramp the designer, and com-
monsense points to something in the shape
of an inner courtyard or unroofed vestibule.
All the time, in the evolution of bush archi-
tecture, the cocky’s missus should be remem-
bered. She has been overlooked long enough.
On plenty of farms that ooze prosperity, and
where the last things in machinery and toil-
dodging devices are found outside, the old
woman still battles alone- with the same lack
of equipment that furrowed the face and pre-
maturely bowed her big-hearted grandmother
50, 60, 80 years ago. Between regular
births she still carts water a hundred yards
or two, washes in the open in a few battered
tubs that have to be filled and emptied by
hand, and cooks and bakes alongside an
open fire in- an untidy skillion kitchen with
an iron roof and an imitation window.
Bred of stout stuff, with strangely few
growls she suffers these and a score of other
needless soul-killing details that never strike
the old man when he is busy scheming to
secure the latest thing in headers and corn-
shellers. In these days of telephones and
cheap oil- and gas-engines, the well-to-do
cocky’s home should be as comfortable and
labor-saving as any suburban residence:
yet tlie average city toiler's missus
would tear up half her’ suburb if asked to
endure what her comparatively-affluent bush-
sister has to take as a matter of course. It
is time the latter woke up and made some
direct remarks to father. There is great
and joyous room for a union of cockies’
wives—perhaps that is why the average
cocky is such a fervid non-unionist. Yet
hundreds of him would gladly do all he could
to help the old woman if he happened to
think of it.
Australia First.
The cry of G. D. Meudell
Two things stir me to appeal to all good Aus-
tralians to consider how we ought to act unitedly
to prevent our country being entangled in foreign-
er shall we say, exotic? —policies and post-war busi-
ness arrangements. The one was the Paris pact or
Conference and the other the invitation to take
part in an Imperial Conference.
Parliamentary Governinent here and in. England
has broken down. The English people are asking
for new economic alliances to perpetuate old economic
heresies, and they arc crying out for another Parlia-
ment. So they invite us to join them in this fresh
adventure. Put frankly, Australia does not need
any more parties or Governments or Parliaments;
it badly wants to rationalise, not to nationalise, its
existing political and governmental system. Any
new movement ought not to be, like the projected
National Federation, a mere reshuffling of party
political aims and actions. It ought to be a universal
demand for honest finance, both Commonwealth and
State. That is the keystone of the national arch.
Good finance means good government, and no govern-
ment can ever be good in Australia which does not
administer an adequate scientific, comprehensive,
Protective tariff. We want an enlightened leader, a
champion born and bred in Australia who loves this
country and puts it before any other. We want a
McKinley, whose tariff re-created the United States,
to make permanent a system of Protection which
will secure our industrial independence. Last year
Victoria imported 11 million pounds more of goods
than she exported, mostly iron and woollen goods,
wearing apparel and paper. Australia is really an
inferior agricultural country, and her obvious destiny
because of her coal, iron and metals is to become
a gi eat manufacturing realm. The only way to bring
our coal, iron, oil, tin, copper and all the others
into full use is to become determined to strengthen
and expand our industrial life continuously and
strenuously.
But not by sinking our individuality and losing
our independence by blindly joining England in a
Freetrade Zollverein or Customs union of the Allies.
That’s why every good Australian must distrust
W. M. Hughes and all the other political personages
born elsewhere who do not and cannot by nativity
love this country and therefore understand its ideals
properly like we Australians. A great many
worthy people will object to the claim I now
make that we Australians shall take a bigger share
of the work and duty of managing the public busi-
ness of Australia. Yet the native-born number 82 per
cent, of the people, those born in the United King-
dom 13 per cent, and the foreign-born 5 per. cent.
If we want Protection for ourselves, for our indus-
tries, for our country in full measure, we must
reject the George Reids and William Hugheses, and
all the other exotic politicians who have worked
themselves to the front. We Australians can carry
all elections, can appoint all members of Parliament
and municipal councillors, by overwhelming force
of numbers; and if the present political crowds in
the seven Parliaments, saturated with anti-Australian
ideas, do not give us honest finance and proper Pro-
tection, then we ought simply cast them aside and
elect only Australians who will.
-V —
“C.G.”: For the coming fierce economic
war “efficiency in commerce” is the watch-
word. Now, efficiency can come through
nothing else blit education, and how does
the N. S. Wales education system conduce
to efficiency in matters that are going to
count? The recently-published leaving-cer-
tificate examination results, which cover
over 70 secondary public, denominational
and private schools and colleges, stand out
in illustration. Some 850 candidates sat.
Of these (presumably the cream of the
schools) fourteen took “business principles”
—the most tabooed of the whole of the sub-
jects. Even then only five passed, one alone
being an “A.” Which again gave the lowest
percentage in the whole bundle. Economics
tempted 18 and 14 passed. Yet there were
S5O candidates in all! It may be a possible
consolation that Greek beat either. French
had 632 supporters and Latin 548. Botany
and geology were also well up in the run-
ning. Thus while we are turning out our
Greeks and Romans and rock-scratchers
and botanists the business community
screans for the Efficient Young Man. He’s
reported missing. At any rate, the schools and
colleges haven’t got him. The fact that
the technical colleges and business colleges
cater for the practical young man isn’t
any palliative. These come in too late
for 90 per cent, of the youngsters. Mean-
while the exhibitions and prizes dangled be-
fore the University door are made the goal
of our secondary-school system; and all but
the very few who land there are abandoned.
This writer has had direct personal experience
of the system, and is positive that for
every one useful kid turned out of the
secondary schools a dozen are allowed to
drift. We have excellent educational
machinery, but it wants to be suitably
adjusted and “tuned-up.” It may be dis-
tasteful,_ but we’ll have to follow the Teu-
ton again. . Before the war Germany was
peppered with schools in which a big crowd
of up-to-date commercial subjects had biffed
the traditional “classics.” It was Wilhelm
himself who told a Berlin conference that
the duty of the country was to turn out
young Germans, not Greeks and Romans.
Even England has awakened to similar
advice. In the future we will have to view
education more frequently from the utili-
tarian point of view, with the requirements
and usefulness of the Kid in the foreground.
It’s all live politics. Efficiency is the affair
of the State, and we’ll have to get it or go
out. We haven’t much to spare in this
round, and there’s another one coming.
The story of death and suffering from
Antarctic cold told in connection with the
Shackleton expedition has caused a shud-
dering sympathy throughout the world ; and
in due course, no doubt, honors will be
showered upon the survivors. Yet 1 olar
expeditious are exactly on a par with
the performances of the daring idiot who
handles deadly snakes at the street corner.
Crowds gape at the horror; but any
man in his senses knows, that the
tiling has no scientific value and that
such performances ought to be a crimi-
nal offence. The same is true of the Pole-
hunting folly with its trimmings of death
and misery. Frost bites as badly as a
death-adder; and, on the statement of a
prominent member of the Geographical
Society, the whole Arctic and Antarctic field
of exploration is not of sufficient scientific
value to be worth the sacrifice of a life.
But because Polar adventure provides fine
daily press sensation and brings trade to
their mart, newspaper proprietors can
always be found to support it. Were the
commander of an expedition in which lives
are lost put on his trial for manslaughter
and compelled to show the good he reason-
ably expected to achieve by the performance,
the business might be viewed in proper per-
spective. Hudson, Boss and older voyagers
had plenty of excuse. The theory of an
open Polar'sea was firmly held, and they
might have added to the world’s treasure by
their discovery of ice-free lands fit for
human habitation. Now that dream has
utterly gone. It is time, therefore, that
science itself protested against these garish
showmen’s tricks being practised in its name.
♦
About a lately-dead Maorilander: —
Robert McNab’s political life was not without one
hig accomplishment, or at any rate something that
looked hig when he did it. Like most Maorilanders
Me Nab felt in his bones that to the people there-
abouts the land question was the greatest of all
political issues. Yet he only half grasped the pro-
blem and had been confused by the sham fight about
the leasehold and freehold which raged in the days
of McKenzie and Seddon. When lie joined the first
Ward Ministry as Minister for Lands the time was
dead-ripe for a Land Bill, anil one was produced.
On this McNab said he would stand or fall, Ward
made loud remarks about “nailing his colors to the
mast,” and in the end both of them bolted. The
main object of the Bill was to chop lumps off the
holdings of the big owners, and it frightened six
months’ growth out of them. Tn detail it was
hopeless and as a measure of genuine reform really
worth nothing. But incidental to it was a proposal
to stop further alienation of Crown land by throwing
the whole of the land then leased or unoccupied into
a State Trust for the benefit of education, this to be
known as the National Endowment. The idea was
to remove from the political field the inflamed con-
troversy that had been going on about tenure, and
the Ministry had enough courage left to sec it
through. The effect of this legislation was to sot
aside 7,000,000 acres of Crown land as a permanent
endowment for education and old-age pensions. Pro-
vision was made for throwing another 21000,000 acres
then in occupation on lease into the pool. The
value of this endowment is a matter of opinion. Tha*
it will stand is problematical. Already the principle
of the thing has been nibbled at by an amendment
of the Act four years ago permitting the “exchange"
of endowment land for other land. Recent legisla-
tion by the Masse r-ites has practically killed the
old leasehold controversy, and land problems in
Maoriland will have to be approached from a new
angle. But McNab’s effort to save the remnant of
the public estate had some elements of greatness about
it. He was also the author of the renewable lease
by which an attempt was made to compromise between
the demands for the freehold and the old leasehold
for 999 years.
*-
Last week Tiie Bu.letin urged that a
Commission should he appointed to inquire
into the whole financial administration of
the Defence Department. Even if it did
no other good it would show what individ-
ual Commandants have done to improve
matters here and there. As The Bulletin
said last week, thousands of pounds’ worth
of equipment has been sent to the destruc-
tor instead of to the cleaner. This scandal,
it seems, continued in N. S. Wales until
October or November last, when an organisa-
tion was set up in Sydney to go through
all discarded clothing, boots and bedding,
patch and purify what could be patched
and purified and dispose of the bal-
ance. Under the State Commandant Dr.
Storey, politician David’s lieut.-colonel
son, has had charge of this business; and
as the other States don’t appear to hav«'
anything quite like it, the sooner news of
such improvements is spread the better. The
suggested Commission would supply the
machinery for doing it.
“W.D.Y.” : Here is another of the amazing
performances of the Defence Department.
About three months ago a returned soldier
I know very well received his discharge as
unfit for active service. As he felt no ill-
effects from his six months’ training in
Egypt he went back to his pre-war job as a
farmhand, and was toiling cheerfully when
he received a notification from the Pensions
Board that he had been granted 30s. a week
for six months, and that his case would be
reviewed again in six months’ time. Now he
had never asked for a pension, and did not
honestly think he was entitled to one; in
fact, the idea of applying had never entered
his head. It is a fair thing to grant pen-
sions to returned men if they have sustained
injury ; but there will be a big enough bill
to meet for the war without making money
presentations. The experts who are to over-
haul the Pay Office should be directed to
glance at the system of the Pensions Board.
The Victorian Department of Agriculture
suffers from an unconquerable optimism.
Take bee-keeping, for instance. The only
sensible way to become an apiarist is to
start a cow-farm and get a few hives going
when the cows are bringing in an income.
Once the cows begin to provide his living the
persevering producer get a few pounds
extra out of bees to pay for tobacco and
hair-restorer. The man who starts by try-
ing to make bees keep him is merely a
gambler. Yet the Journal of Agricul-
ture, now being eagerly examined by re-
turned soldiers and the War Council for
traces of suitable occupations, contains
page after page of enthusiastic bee-articles,
telling all about the lovely prospects.
Edward Penglase, who bee-keeps at Fern-
bank (Vic.), published his opinion on the
matter the other day and it is worth past-
The Curse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Seen from afar she seemed not terrible;
Seen close, her pallid face and hairless head
Was foul with every foul disease of llell;
Her clothes, a few torn rags of tawdry red,
Veiled not the ghastly whiteness of her
limbs —
The white of marble where pale moonlight
swims.
She spake. Her words had all the tragic
woe
Of all the multitudinous blasted lives,
The myriad unborn babes; each word fell
slow,
As when the speaker with a strange tongue
strives;
Each heavy with a more than human an-
guish,
They seemed to cause the very air to lan-
guish :
“I am the blight that blights the marriage
bed,
Defiling love and blasting all its fruits;
Where Fever, Phthisis, count their thousand
dead,
I count as well my thousand living brutes;
’Tis I, and only I, have power to doom
The unborn infant in its mother’s womb.
“I lull my victims to security
As false as it is vain; maybe a span
Of years may pass, and still he harbors me
Unknown, then loves and marries—foolish
man!
The torments of the blackest Hell are mild
To his when he beholds his stricken child.
“Another score of years and once again
Within the victim’s veins I wake to life,
Distilling my black venom through his brain,
And helping fierce unreason win the strife;
The helpless body broken and defiled
In some asylum joins his idiot child.
“Majestic monuments, asylums, jails.
All testify the measure of my might;
Although I only thrive where knowledge
fails,
And perish where she sheds her cPansing
light,
Dull Ignorance and Cant are my good
friends,
False Piety the best protection lends.”
She showed her victims, drove on drove
they-came,
From old age to the blighted day-old child,
Some blind, some paralysed, some halt,
some lame,
Some mindless, but all loathsomely defiled ;
They passed, all silent, stony with despair,
Save one who mumbled curses mixed wiiii
prayer.
TASMANIA.
H. W. S.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill. Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office : Cornet* Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
fire. &. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
FIVE NIGHTS. EIGHT DAYS.
APRIL 3 TO APRIL 11, 1917.
£9OOO
PRIZES
£9OOO
ENTRIES CLOSE.
s^pL?rv te Af Jrw ar ''n 27 : f eb] T ar Y 27; Horses, March 3; Cattle, Sheep and Pigs, March
aiiws^sS‘io i ! -!ESShSS, Fralt * -* D "'" Prod,, “’ M * rch
PRIZES SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Ocean House, M o o re Street. Sydney. H. M. SOMER. Secretary.
iug in tlie hat of everybody who is eager
to get (other people) back‘to the land:—.
The reports on bee-keeping issued bv the Agricul-
tural Department should be taken with a grain of
salt, as only the bright side is shown. Having kept
iees in I ictoria for 26 years, I can say that it is
? n . e ° f t the most uncertain industries. In this dis-
trict the last five years were total failures.
The War Council should keep its eye firmly
fixed on Strawberry as the most depend-
able rural money-maker in sight. There are
a few successful bee-keepers, very patient
experts mostly; but the successful Straw-
berry-keeper who isn’t much of an expert
IS quite numerous —numerous enough, any-
way, to give a plain lead in the right direc-
tion.
»
On the Verge of a Fresh Round.
There is a fine lack of detail about the
effects of Germany’s latest frightfulness.
V ilhelm is reported to be satisfied with
results so far, and Britain is alleged to con-
sider that the operations do not seriously
threaten isolation. The fact may be that
both sides are posing, neither being able yet
to tell how the thing is going to end. If the
construction of vessels in British shipyards
is speeded-up and the armed merchantman
can make good shooting practice, it seems at
least reasonable to hope that the German
will have to think out something else. Mean-
while there was no news last week of the
“overt act” which might provoke Uncle Sam
to get properly riled, and a deep suspicion
existed that Sam was going to a lot of
trouble to avoid being riled any more than
he was before. The German is in all like-
lihood just as anxious as the Yank to dodge
overt acts —until he gets a line on what liis
torpedoes can actually do. If he sees that he
cannot succeed in a contract limited to Brit-
ish vessels and the shipping of European
neutrals, there would be nothing gained by
adding the U.S.A. to liis troubles.- If, how-
ever, he comes to the conclusion that commit-
ting an overt act will help him to victory,
Washington can rely on the deed being done.
Victory at the price of offending the U.S.A.
would certainly be cheap to the German, for
he is bleeding now far more than is good
for him, with the horrible certainty of hav-
ing soon to fight as he never fought before.
East and west of him are enormous armies
waiting for General Frost to take a holiday
—armies that are well-gunned, confident and
resolute. Months of a carnage more terrible
than any that has gone before are
ahead ; for if the past affords any clue to the
future it pan be taken as certain that the
German will fight on the conquered land he
bolds until he can fight no more. There are
overwhelming political and military reasons
for this; for the day the German armies
retreat to their own frontiers —if they ever
do—the German nation will know that it is
beaten. But the war is a long way from the
German frontiers yet; and words will not
drive the enemy thither, nor will armies that
are short of reinforcements. All the talk
in the world about “winning the war” won’t
alter that fact.
When the plaint of the clerks was opened
before .Justice Hodges in the Vic. Court
of Industrial Appeals recently, his Honor
opined that equal pay should not be given
for equal work as between the sexes. It
was put to him that a differential wage
meant the replacement of men clerks by
women. “And a very good thing, too.” he
answered. Possibly. It might be a 'good
thing if wages were so modified that women
displaced men as solicitors, barristers and
judges; also as parsons, politicians, drafts-
men, importers and salesmen of many sorts.
The war has. shown that woman can do
a whole lot of things. But nobody has yet.
advanced any sound reason why she should
be encouraged to keep on doing them. The
point is that while women can do a lot of
man’s work man cannot do woman’s. Her
exclusive job is that of wife and mother, and
no system is good, which tends to make it
more difficult for a man to support a house-
hold. so that woman may do her exclusive
job in reasonable comfort.
Eleven of the 52 aliens naturalised in the
Commonwealth during January were Ger-
mans. Four were over GO, and two were
Australian women whose German husbands
have died. So far so good. But the other
five were naturalised as “special cases.”
Why this lack of publicity about the enrol-
ment of enemy subjects as good Australians
these nerilous times? It is fairly up to the
Government to let everybody know who and
what are the enemy aliens now being re-
ceived into the bosom of the Commonwealth
as special cases. The Railway Commis-
sioners in most States can’t even carry a
bit of freight at less than the usual rates
without publishing their reasons; and surely
the admittance of Germans to citizenship
just now is quite as important a departure
from public policy.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady”
Palace “Very Good Eddie”
'Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Smart Set
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built”
Royal “The Misleading Lady”
Princess’s “The Merchant of Venice”
King’s ; “The Parish Priest”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Ivilda The Dandies
Hoyt’s Du Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium . ... “A Daughter cf the Gods”
Playhouse ~Feb. 17) McMahon’s Benefit
The Taits have made a bright musical-
comedy start at Sydney Palace with “Very
Hood Eddie,” a well-dressed lightweight
American show which is passed over the
footlights by a co. headed by Barry Lupino,
who, as well as leading, has also attended to
the staging. The Taits have provided a
dainty cradle for their first baby by
having the somewhat dingy Palace refur-
bished. Among the improvements there is a
new curtain of stone-colored silk decorated
with trails of hand-painted roses. A big
first-night audience wasn’t disappointed with
the frivolity which the raising of this glad
rag unveiled. “Eddie” has the advantage of a
plot which is only lost sight of occasionally
and never absolutely falls in its tracks. It
is also a rest from the stereotyped form of
musical comedy which stars the dear Duchess
of Whitehall, the young women of title who
marry the Wrong belltoppered lcnuts, the
frivolous elderly gent who wants his nephew
to enter the diplomatic service, and the rest
of the familiar Punch and Judy show. The
American importation doesn’t bring one
titled character in its Matilda. Eddie him-
self is a lisping little Englishman who has
been abducted in holy matrimony by a sort
of she-colonel, and the plot begins to work
when a Hudson River excursion steamer
starts unexpectedly and carries off Eddie and
the baby doll-bride of a tragic American who
has gone ashore with Eddie’s missus to see
after some vagrant luggage. The marooned
pair don’t catch up with Eddie and the baby
doll till the second act. when they find them
living the blameless life in the Rip Van
Winkle Inn, where the comedy clerk is the
whole staff, and says he can’t be sacked
“because the boss committed, a crime and I
was the only witness.” It looks the sort of
show that could be speeded-up if necessary
to a 60-mile-an-hour gait; but it gets along
comfortably like a family motor full of virtu-
ous week-enders.
* * * *
Barry Lupino, in the uame-part, gets his
laughs quietly and never forces the pace.
Lilian Tucker, a singing American beautv-
blonde, has the same agreeable quality of
restfulness. She is the stage beloved of old
friend Andrew lligginson, who used to pursue
“The Merry Widow” as the pettish Prince
Danilo. Andrew has a hint of the mellow-
ness of approaching inidddle-age about him
now. Fayette Perry does the baby doll’s
work prettily. John Beck (another new-
comer) manages a big slice of the second act
as the hotel clerk, a slouching, dictatorial
“THE ORCHID A AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Comte Cassignat (Clyde Cook ) challenges
Meakin (Phil Smith) to a duel.
country buck in loose garments. Emily Fitz-
roy towers as Eddie’s massive bride. Alfred
Bristowe earns overtime as an excited stage
Frenchman; and Daisy Revette seems to
float on whenever the music becomes brisk.
Jerome Kern, a U.S. composer, is respon-
sible for this music. Several of the airs have
tlie valuable haunting quality, and will pull
music-lovers back for a second hearing. A
good orchestra under Robert Keers gets the
most out of the 17 numbers, and the dress-
ing of the show compels tin- respectful ntton-
tion of fashion-critics. The size of the
Palace stage doesn’t allow much room for
display; but there is room for a compact
company of good-lookers, and Mrs. Scott
(sister to the Tait brotherhood) has person-
ally seen to it that their frocks are a credit
to them and the family. The Clints collect
credit for the scenery, which includes a heavy
second-act set.
The correct concoction of cocktails is
being nightly demonstrated at Sydney Cri-
terion by Elma Royton, while the composi-
tion of the morning-after antidote is lucidly
explained by May Nightingale. The accom-
panying lecture, “How to Be a Husband to
Her,” is still being rapturously received by
large audiences.
Till “The Pink Lady” arrives on Satur-
day night, the capable Royal Comics are
filling in at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, with a
week’s revival of “The Orchid”; and it
really isn’t as faded as you’d think after
all these years. Caryl! and Moncton’s
music makes you forget the “smart” Lon-
don dialogue that now has moss all over it.
But the honest theatrical tradespeople put
up a fine bluff and hand it out as though
librettist James T. Tanner had only grown
it last month. Florence Young, a promis-
ing young singer whom The Bulletin
remembers to have met before, puts up the
best record as Caroline Yokins, the abun-
dant lady who matrimonially pursues gar-
dener Meakin—Phil Smith in this edition.
Evidently the intrusive moth is slain at
the entrance to the great J.C.W. wardrobe;
and the dazzling white turn-out of tiie co.
in the final scene is a credit to that depart-
ment.
“The Bunyip” goes triumphantly on its
way at the Opera House, Sydney. The
unplayed curtain-raiser to the successful
“VERY GOOD
EDDIE,” AT
SYDNEY
PALACE.
Eddie Kettle
(Barry Lupino)
supporting the
queen of the
kidnappers,
Mrs. Kettle
(Emily
Fitzroy ).
Australian panto, shows authoress Ella
Airlie searching for seven years for a man-
ager as Diogenes seeking for an honest
man. At last she found Fairy Wattle-
blossom Fuller, who waved iiis magic
cheque-book over it. Then up went the
curtain. They both deserve their good for-
tune.
The three-hour film “Intolerance” un-
wound its 13,000 feet of architectural won-
ders, gorgeousness and horrors to a packed-
tight Sydney Royal. The plot is woven of
four threads, each a world-story of the
havoc wrought by man’s intolerance, tem-
pered only by the grace of love. New York.
Paris, Babylon and Jerusalem are the cen-
tres of action. Though the picture is well
worth seeing the agony of three of the
stories is too drawn out; one’s spine be-
comes jelly from the succession of thrills.
But the story of Calvary—that greatest
tragedy in the world’s history—conveys
no sense of reality. Perhaps the murder
of that “Just Man” is beyond the power
of film factory to comprehend and portray.
Smoke is now pouring from the chimney
of the vaudeville factory known as Sydney
Tivoli, and Fred Bluett is officially described
as “The One Comedian that Nobody Ever
Tires of.” If he ever has an argument with
the boss about salary, he should take that
cutting along with him and read it aloud.
Malcolm, McEacliern sings confidently inside
the halo bestowed upon him by Melba, and
Marie King Scott still looks the wild, shy
hayseed. The Togos are falling off the bill
and Frank Markloy, a ban joist, is falling on.
Sydney movie features this week :—-
Lyceum:' “The Matrimaniac,” in which Douglas
Fairbanks performs several reels of acrobatics to
secure a wife; “The Sins Ye Do.” a stirring drama
justifying the unwritten law; and a film trip to
the Burrinjuck Dam.
Hoyt’s: “The Sunbeam,” a pleasing Metro
romance. Hoyt’s Mosman Kinema, one of the best
appointed of Sydney suburban movie halls, has in-
stalled a new instrument which provides full sym-
phony orchestra, trumpet and voice accompaniments
—the first of its kind in Sydney.
Empress: “Under Two Flags,” a capital Fox film-
ing of “Ouida’s” “Under Two Flags.”
Crystal Palace: Clara Kimball Young in “The
Rise of Susan,” the sensational adventures of a
shopgirl who impersonated a countess.
AUSTRALIAN
STARS AT
SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Rosso Malcolm
McEachero and
Comedian Fred
Bluett.
Part-singing having Ivon so successfully
featured by the Dandies during their Syd-
ney season at the Garden Theatre, the co.
that succeeded them the other night, the
Smart Set, caught the wink and followed.
A very pleasing follow-up it was, too. On
the whole, the show is much on the lines
of that of the Dandies and loses nothing
by comparison. Change of programme
occurs weekly, but prices of admission and
the managerial smile of welcome are fix-
tures.
One difference between President Gar-
field, of U.S.A., and showman T. H. Eslick,
of Sydney, is that the former went from
log cabin to White House while the latter
proposes to go from White City to log-
rolling cabin. Eslick is to stand as a Lib-
eral for the Paddington seat in the Assem-
bly at the next elections in N. S. Wales.
Meanwhile the carnival frolics continue to
be a feature at the big amusement park
and the side-shows are at the old address.
In “The Misleading Lady, - ’ at Melbourne
Loyal, two Yankee writers of the telephone
and ‘auto. school of fiction have joined
their limited faculties to provide an improb-
able niglit-out for a very ordinary young
woman. Proceedings open with the usual
preamble wherein the young person, Helen
Steele, instigates a proposal of marriage
from honest John Craigen. It seems that
she has frivolously lured him to offer his
heart and fortune for the sake of a rather
brainless wager; but when she discovers
that John is dead-earnest, she realises that
something special in feminine contrition is
needed to soften the blow. Thereupon she
gives a movie show of Shame and Remorse,
which becomes articulate and expressive of
Shocked Amazement when the affronted hero
grabs her about the waist and hurries her
per motor to a lone place in the mountains.
Act 11. affords a vision of abducted Helen,
sorely in need of a powder-rag and com-
posure. in Mr. Craigen’s Adirondack shack.
The humpy is eminently suitable for the per-
petration of polite masculine brutalities,
wherefore John starts to demonstrate that
his second name is Petruehio, while he tries
to escape a web of farcical melodrama in
which the worried authors are now attempt-
ing to enmesh him. Follows a mad farrago
of incidents recalling the absurdities with-
out the thrills of “The Seven Keys to Bald-
pate.’’ While Craigen is immersed in humili-
ating Miss Steele, only to be howled at.
thumped and finally adored by that way-
ward female, irrelevant motors whiz* out
of the night, telephones buzz, rain and
thunder riot in the background, and an
escaped lunatic, posed as Napoleon, heads
imaginary legions through the scene of
activities. More than once Bonaparte saves
the play from meeting its Waterloo, and
-there is no doubt that he has been specially
created to hold the stage while the dramatist's
are plotting further embarrassment for Helen
and John. The so-called comedy ends in
anti-climax and mental exhaustion, with
Helen and John fastened firmly together and
an inexplicable rival scouting somewhere in
the snow of Little Bourke-street in hopes
of salvaging his missing love.
* * * *
Practically the only serious person with a
definite object in the piece is the disgruntled
rival, Henry Tracey. Played by Leslie
\ ictor. Tracey is a permanent threat of
homicide in the sardine class. Frank Harvey
is no less resolute as .Tack Craigen, and


m
0 O Oiy
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DT
B L Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
THE WORLD FAMOUS BRAND
RED STAR
WHISKY
“It is ill arguing with a hungry man,” says the
old proverb. But it is worse playing tricks with a
sick one. When the doctor orders brandy he means
real good stuff —the best.” Give the patient
Martell’s, and both he and his doctor will be
satisfied. Being rich in the higher ethers it is
unequalled in case of sickness.
Besides, it is perfect for social purposes.
MARTELL’S BRANDY
, OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715.
[3
PEAPES’ SERVICE BOOT.
Regulation Military style—an ideal boot for active
service or station wear. In view of approaching
Winter, a practical purchase for men who want
a comfortable weather-resisting boot for outdoors.
Water-proof tongues, wide welts, rope-stitched heavy
double soles, stout leather lining. Comfort-shape
rounded toes.
In Stout dark Tan Willow Calf .... 32/6
Chrome Calf 27 / 6
Black Box Calf 27/6
IFe Pay Postage. Please state size.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 8 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
m
generally reproduces his woman-taming
farmer in “The Land of Promise ’ with, per-
haps, a thicker varnish of civilisation. Miss
Florence Rockwell has no great moments as
the comedy heroine, and there are times
when her methods amount to a system of
applied mechanics in which ordinary human
feelings are playing no part. Still, her pretty
voice, trained to chime like a cuckoo-clock,
occasionally suggests that she is personally
concerned in the midnight misadventure of
Helen Steele. Edwin Lester is nearly a hit
“THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT,”
AT HER MAJESTY’S. MELBOURNE.
Two Fierce Stage Seconds.
as the demented Emperor of the French, but
he is the only other character of any signifi-
cance. Boyd Irwin and Frank Harcourt
are very brief irruptions as two madhouse-
keepers. Kimball is only a snapshot of a
staccato Noo Yark reporter. Two good
people like Maggie Knight and Styan do
lOmin. turns as the depressed hosts of a
swell house-party. Stella Pay ter, Mattee
Brown, Beatrice Holloway and Leonard
Stephens are even less important as part of
a throng of guests, from whom Robert Greig
projects by reason of the enormity of his
waistband.
* * :J:
A revival of “The Merchant of Venice,” at
Melbourne Princess’s, brings Allan Wilkie
forward in one of the most convincing of his
characters. This Jew seems about right in
all main essentials. Miss Hunter-Watts re-
peats her confident impression of Portia,
without suggesting that a heart beats under
either the satin of the lady or the' red robe
of tbe Venetian advocate. Miss Hunter-
Watts in some attitudes is just a piece of
elegant dress material. The Prince of
Morocco, formerly a well-spoken potentate
by Marcus St. John, is another of the halt
and maimed which the inexperienced Fred
Kelioe has to add to his list of dramatic
casualties. Walter Hunt’s Bassanio is
stagily conventional, and Vivian Edwards
(Gratiano) is stronger in voice and cruder
in decorum than the previous impersonator,
Robert Faulkner. If Shylock fails to obtain
his pound of Christian, his daughter, Jessica,
gets it in the puny Lorenzo of David Bel-
bridge. It is impossible to believe that
Jessica’s roving eye could be captured by
this fragment of a lover. John Cosgrove’s
stout Antonio nearly obliterates the fore-
ground as before. Edward Landor is a new
Launcelot Gobbo, with a quaint style of
foolishness that implies more animal cun-
ning than mental obtuseness. Miss Lorna
Forbes, quite unsuited as Jessica, practi-
cally administers the coup de firace to a
character which previously was sadly mauled
by Miss Elwyn Harvey. Miss Marie Ney is
Nerissa; and the only reproach that this
gallant journal can utter against her is that
she looks far too comely and coquettish for
a “waiting woman.”
“The House That Jack Built” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s looks nothing alongside
the houses the Firm gets. This is the eighth
week of the show, and the theatre continues
to be packed with parents who have
brought their children and children who
have had their parents thrust upon them.
Spectacularly the matinees are the great-
est success. Every one of them is an over-
whelming conglomerate mass of kid, ice-cream
and lolly.
Allen Doone’s Tom Moore at Melbourne
King’s remains the same theatrical myth
that The Bulletin saw last week. The
play, however, is kinder to the Irish min-
strel than to other historical personages
who appear therein. Beau Brummel, for
instance, is represented as a johnny who
mostly suppresses the Beau and seems to
regard Brummel as a variation of Brummy.
Sheridan is even more severely dealt with.
He is depicted as a burly, bovine person
with long arrears of temperance to make
up. Frank Cullenane plays this bibulous
effigy. Next Saturday “The Parish Priest”
will be revived, and on Wednesday (21st)
“In Old Donegal.”
The Passing Show arrived at Melbourne
Tivoli on Saturday, revealing front and
back views of shapely girleens, two or
three scenes of decorative fancy, and the
partially disguised Strollers headed by
Sydney James. Sydney and his colleagues
reappear in nondescript garments in which
the previous Stroller characteristics are not
utterly suppressed, though they have to
struggle hard for notice. Also the little party
has abandoned its Stroller form of humor,
and has become more Amurkan and ragtimey
in conformity with the artistic canons of King
Mclntosh. James is the director of frivol-
ities, and whistles, warbles, or ventriloquises
with almost equal success. Connie Milne,
Madeline Rossiter, G. W. Desmond and
George Graystone all do good work, and
Gwen Lewis has a piano and a scene all
to herself.
Annette Ivellerman continues to be the
sport of cruel Fate at Melbourne Audi-
torium. During a busy evening she is. stolen
by bandits and sold as a slave, then sen-
tenced to become an alligator’s breakfast
and frizzle 1 over a martyr’s lire. After
dodging those modes of extinction, she is
tossed about in troubled waters and deposited
by the waves on a tropical shore, only
to be pelted by gnomes who are appa-
rently upset by her thrilling charms. And
it should be remarked that Annette really is
something to shock unsophisticated gnomes.
She shows herself among them, as she
appears fi’eely elsewhere, with no more
wardrobe than her flowing tresses and a
couple of hankies for winter wear.
“THE HOUSE
THAT JACK
BUILT,” AT
HER
MAJESTY’S ,
MELBOURNE.
William Full-
brook as an old
bloke giving
advice.
Conspicuous on the Dandies’ programme
at St. Kilda (Vic.) last week was a scrap
of concerted frivolity called “The Musical
Stores.” In this item Harry de Robeck
indulged in low-comedy obeisance before a
finical customer (Ida Newton), whilst
other members of the co. figured as the
dukes, duchesses and other members of
the nobility who are found in hordes be-
hind rag-shop counters.
This week Hoyt’s (Melbourne) are pic-
turing Diamond Daisy, a lady burglar who
inserts herself into apparently invulnerable
establishments and performs very prettily
with the jemmy and bit. The title of the
feature is “The Wager,” and Emily Stevens,
an old screen favorite, is condemned to go
wrong as the female crook. Of the other
Hoyt film, “The Darkening Trail,” all The '
Bulletin need say is that it contains Wil-
liam S. Hart and a gun, and-every Hoyt
supporter knows that that means gore.
The well-earned benefit to Gregan
McMahon happens at Melbourne Playhouse
on Saturday night. The bill is Act I. of
“The Pigeon,” followed by the three-act
comedy, “The Two Mr. Wetlierbys.” Gregan
will be seen in both items and reproduce
two of his cleverest bits of portraiture.
* * * *
Adelaide Tivoli gives a week-end to its
Andersonian dramas, skipping easily from
the naval “Sailor’s Sweetheart” to the mili-
tary “Life’s Revenge.” Cross and Fitz-
herbert are a fine, dashing pair of leading
men, and Blanche McPherson fights a duel
with Ida Gresham to the satisfaction of the
public. .Tack Cannot and his Follies are to
come to this house. The Majestic counters
with a “Follies of Pleasure” team of its
own. Its turns are strong on the athletic
side, with Dubois of the swift tennis-racquet
topping the bill. The Steele-Paynes’ bell-
ringing almost ranks as an athletic feat too.
The Royal has gone back to pictures—
William Farnum. West’s produce H. B.
Warner per film; Wondergraph has Valen-
tine Grant (and dog) : and at the Pav. C.
Chaplin is a clever fool on skates.
The reporter had been sent to interview
the latest imported star actress, and was
duly impressed by the announcement that
she had brought with her 11 trunks of
dresses. “If I remember rightly, Ethel Irv-
ing brought only five,” he remarked. “Oh,
yes,” was the reply, delivered with cold
scorn, “but she relied upon her acting!”
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Fax”: Melbourne Herald stated, among
other misrecollections of his career, that the
late Henry Bracy “discovered” Florence
Young when he recommended her for the
character of Casilda in the first Melbourne
performance of “The Gondoliers,” which, by
the way, was its first Australian production.
The fact is Florence got her chance months
previously at Melbourne Opera House, where
Musgrove was running the Nellie Stewart
Opera Co. under the nominal management of
the MacMalions. She figured on the “Boc-
caccio” hill as “Miss Young (first appear-
ance).” On “The Gondoliers” hill at the
Princess’s she was “Miss Florence Young
(her first appearance at this theatre).”
“M.P.A.”: Annette Kellennan, the Aus-
tralian mermaid now topping the bill in “A
Daughter of the Gods,” owes her position to
two men. First, her late father, a tireless old
battler, despite the heart trouble which
eventually took him off. Papa kept her nose to
the water, so to speak, in the exhibition swim-
ming and diving business. Annette’s turn
was really a trick diving show in a canvas
tank let into the ground. Hot or cold, the
mermaid had to face the music. It was at
Princes Court, Melbourne, playing on a per-
centage basis, and at the Bendigo Easter
Fair, that old-man Kellennan got a lift that
enabled him to take his girl to London.
Prior to her departure for the Big Smoke
Annette, then a brown-faced girl in a red
tam-o’-shanter, with a weakness for chewing-
gum, swam five miles down the Yarra, fol-
lowed by a boatload of pressmen, visiting-
swimmers (Kieran, Wickham, Springfield
and others) and a few photographers. After
this big swim Annette got a fine boost in the
dailies. Then the second man to help took
a hand. This was ,T. A. Sears, the well-
known Melbourne outdoor camera man, who
“THE HOUSE
THAT JACK
BUILT;’ AT
HER
MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
A Couple of
Ritchie’s Reckless
Rough Riders.
collected all the newspaper reports of the
long swim, and with a liberal supply of
photos, mailed them to the Topical Press,
London, for distribution. On arrival in Eng-
land the Kellermans were bombarded by a
host of pressmen and photographers eager
for first-hand information about the Aus-
tralian girl who came to swim the English
Channel. The Channel-swim scheme came
from Sears, who impressed old-man Iveller-
man with the idea. Of course, she really
didn’t take that swim seriously. The girl
I met at the Oxford Music Hall years after
was very changed from the one I knew
at Princes Court. Annette had grown very
American, and told me she simply detested
swimming. Her act amounted to a series of
slow toe-dancing movements and trick-
diving into a tank let into the stage. There
was a ballet and a dumb show, about a
Frincess who was utterly bored _to death
with everything until a beautiful girl with a
Venus-like form and graceful diving came
along and interested her. The tired Prin-
cess was a chic French girl—Annette’s sister-
in-law. But success has not affected
Annette in the slightest. She is a charming
woman.
“Monkbarns”: In one of the interesting
pars, on Bracy (B. 8/2/T7) it is said he
was here in the Julia Mathews time; but
Julia had left Australia a good many years
before Bracy came. Her era at the old wooden
matchbox Princess’s, with Fawcett Rowe,
was between ’6O and ’62. She was a dumpy
little woman, with soft, _ putty face, and
singing was her strong point. She married
one Mumford, of Maorihuid. Her stately
father and her lynx-like mother had been
desperately keen janitors. Rowe _ also left
Austral’a about ’62. In America long
afterwnuls he wrote “Fun on the Bristol,”
for Sheridan; but before that ho had
done well, as a star, in England. His
Micawber was reckoned the best ever seen
in London. Sam Emery, afterwards known
in Australia, and Winifred’s dad, was also
grand as Peggotty. So was J. L. Irving,
Ethel’s father, as Heep. Titheradge had racy
anecdotes about Rowe’s cheek in persisting
to act characters like Macbeth and Richard
111. Titli. was Macduff, while the whole
text of Macbeth was ladled out to Rowe by
prompters on both sides.
“Peter” : The advent of the Taits in the
theatrical business means increased employ-
ment for some worthy Australian mummers.
The brethren are not going to let Australian
talent lie idle, and have already made a good
beginning by signing on Lizette Parkes,
Eileen Sparks and Nancye Stewart for their
“Turn to the Right” show, which is to be
staged at Melbourne King’s on February 24.
Lizette will be the nice little heroine, and
the other two will be accommodated in minor
parts. The Taits are only importing one
lady—a specialist in wayback motherliness
for the role of old Mrs. Bascom.
(Continued on page 1)2.)
Died in France, William TO. Pike, lieut. of
Royal Engineers, aged 24. Young Pike, who
came from Strathfield (N.S.W.), was a
product of the N. S. Wales State-school
system, and won a scholarship in engineer-
ing when he entered Sydney Uni in 1910.
lie got first-class honors through his course,
and climbed to the B.E. degree in 1914 with
the Uni. medal as the most distinguished
student of his year. A research scholarship
followed, and a travelling fellowship; but
meanwhile the Devil had broken into Bel-
gium, and Pike got the Uni. Senate to post-
pone his fellowship and nominate him to a
commission with the Engineers instead.
Of the eighteen Senators who go out for
election in April or May—three from each
State —eight are Labor men, four Liberals
and six (W.A. and S.A.) followers of
Hughes. If seven Laborites go back their
side will have a majority, for there are 11
Labor Senators with three years still to go.
The chances of a Phewsion getting a Senate
majority through the election are thus not
cheerful, and they are not improved by the
prevalent idea that a win for Hughes and
Cook would be at once employed to disfran-
chise the people by prolonging the life of
the Reps, for a year or two.
S. Aus. State Bank, which was the pio-
neer of its kind in this continent, has cele-
brated its 21st birthday by a luncheon.
Fred Holder, the State Treasurer, after-
wards Commonwealth Speaker, who financed
it in its infancy, is long dead ; and 11. M.
Addison, the first chairman, is the only sur-
vivor of the original Board. Catt and
Gordon (now a judge), who piloted the
scheme through Parliament in 1895, are still
on deck; and G. S. Wright, the bank’s
inspector-general, has held that post ever
since it started. 11. D. Gell, a local man
who mixes accountancy with the best teach-
ings of the young men’s class in the Sunday-
school, is chairman to-day. He came in
because it promised to supply young people
with money to build homes at 4 per cent. —
and for a good while did it.
The Ist Light Horse Depot (28 Moore-
street, Sydney) has a scheme. It has made
arrangements to buy biscuits, fruit and
vegetables (tinned, of course), sardines,
cigarettes, tobacco, etc., at rock-bottom
wholesale prices; and it is forwarding
7s. Gd. and 15s. Easter parcels to any man
in any unit on active service. Send the
7s. Gd. or the 15s. and Billjim’s address, and
the Ist Light Horse Comforts Committee
will do the rest.
THE PENSIVE ADVANCE AGENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Although exposed for weeks to rain,
And sun and wind and vandal hand,
Your message still is fairly plain,
Old daybill on a wayback stand l
My paste and bills I do not heed,
Rut, meditative, pause and read.
De Vere’s All-Star Dramatic Co.
It was your lot to advertise,
And let this sleepy township know
Here was a show to patronise.
And thus you estimate its worth:
“The Greatest Company on Earth.’’
“East Lynne,” of course; and you proclaim
Your leading lady, Dora Dell
(I do not recollect the name),
“The World's best Lady Isabel.”
Your Archibald Carlyle, Guy Fane,
Came here “Direct from Drury Lane.”
Yet shoddy ’twas in ev’ry sense,
This venture of the bold De Yere,
“Produced regardless of expense.”
The clothes were dim with age, 1 hear.
Although you state, with shameless swank,
“New Scenery by Splodger Blank.”
De Vere and Co. have come and gone,
(The 2 a.m., I’m told, they caught),
But bleached and torn and frowned upon,
You still, can stir a faded thought.
In pity I will hide from view
Old lies, grown commonplace, with new.
N.S.W.
FRIAR TUCK.


A LARGE REWARD in THE REALM OF BEAUTY
WILL BE GAINED BY THOSE WHO USE
John $ TRANCE
TOILET PREPARATIONS.
THE QUALITIES THAT MAKE THE COMELY WOMAN are—the luxuriant Hair,
the fine smooth Skin, the charm of dazzling Teeth. Even the plain woman who cares
for herself and does not despise those little arts which make for Comeliness, becomes
the Comely Woman.
Our Soap, Powder, Lakshmi Skin Cream and Lotion, New Pace Cream, Dental
Cream, Hair Poods (oily and non-oily), Carmine and Perspiration Powder
ARE USED BY ROYALTY and were AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDALS.
Send 2d. stamp for sample of Soap or Powder to John Strange Winter (London,
Paris, Rome). Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney. Melbourne
Office: 331 Collins Street.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home' are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENEOLDS
WINES
Thank the good Lord all the brains of the
Defence Department have not been sent to
the Front. There are still some for home
consumption. A sample turned up in Syd-
ney last week when a hefty lad eager to do
his bit was prosecuted for making a false
declaration of his age. lie had lined up
for his rifle and kit and bluffed it out that
he was 18, whereas the scoundrel was then
only 16 years 9 months! The outraged chief
enrolling officer, as soon as he discovered
the crime, ran the young blackguard to the
police court, where a reluctant magistrate
fined him 50s. If he hasn’t got 50s. he is
EOT LIKELY.
PARSON : “Do you give the bride away?”
BANANA BILL: “Give ’er away! Lor ’ Mime,
Mister, wot kind of a nark do yer take
me for?”
to do 21 days in gaol. Said the Bench:
“You will be IS in June.” “Yes. sir,” re-
plied the good Australian, “and if the war
is still on I will be there.” Now then, three
cheers for the Defence Department! Iloch,
hoch, hoch!
You never know how it is going to hit
you. A month ago an elderly Sydney draper
took off his boots and waded into Leich-
hardt Bay to gather cockles. He came out
of the water with a blister on the ball of his
left foot, and remarked to his wife that he
must have scratched it on a cockle-
shell. Next day his foot was sore; but he
was able to go to work. lie sold his calico
steadily for a fortnight, never guessing that
time was nearly up ; then one morning he
complained of sore throat, stiffness of the
jaws and a pain in his stomach. The doctor
hurried him to the hospital with tetanus,
and lie took a whole month to die of it. The
only safe man with a wound is the soldier
who lies on his stretcher in France with his
forehead decorated with the indelible pencil-
mark which .signifies that anti-tetanus serum
has been injected.
That mark on the forehead recalls a queer
thing you see in Java. Especially in the
days when malaria is most ferocious, mothers
streak their babies’ foreheads with the sign
of the Cross, using a mixture of rice-flour
and gin. If the baby isn't safe then it never
will be, for the Cross is the natives’ idea of
white-man’s magic, rice is the greatest thing
in the world (the native is personally sure
on that point), and gin is the wonderful
drink distilled by the Dutchman, who, being
the native’s ruler, stands for civilisation. So
the wliitey streak on the little brown face
stands for magic, life and all earthly power
and knowledge—and a mother can do no
more for her infant than invoke that Trinity.
“O’Pliimerty” : The union-of-churches idea
got an advt. the other day in Tassy on the
spot where an R.C. and an Anglican ceme-
tery are side by side, with a stone wall
between them. An old man and his wife
who belonged one each to these churches
desired to be united in their death. They
therefore bought two grave allotments, one
on each side of the wall, and the graves were
dug obliquely so that they met underneath.
Now the two coffins rest together, and every-
body is content.
* . * -X- -X-
--“J.D.C.” : Scribbled on my cuff: —-
Imagination is the soft moonlight of life. Reality
is the morning after.
Never explain. Make a counter-charge.
Another Australian Anglican bishop is
passing round his mitre for stray coppers in
England—this time, by proxy. The Decem-
ber number of the Greater Britain
Monthly, published in London by “the
Colonial and Continental Church Society,”
contains an appeal
for contributions to-
wards the cost of
building a “Deaconess
Mouse” in Sydney,
with a request that a
Substantial gift be
cabled out to Arch-
gaiters Wright. This
plate-pushing in the
Cold Country to.keep
Australian churches
and • dioceses afloat
isn't getting to be a
scandal—it got there
long ago. Whatever
shadow of excuse there
may be for struggling
dioceses like Kalgoor-
lie and Nor’-West
Australia when they
try to bite the British
ear, there can be
none for Sydney, the
oldest, wealthiest and
most populous of the
lot. If Sydney Angli-
cans don’t care
enough about their
church to. find the
cash for building a
cottage to house half
a dozen deaconesses,
Anglicanism in the
Ma capital had better
put up the shutters on
its Cathedral. Mean-
while, as this* “ap-
peal” aims at taking
out of England money
urgently wanted for
Lloyd George’s “vic-
tory war loan,” can’t
Hughes declare the
Sydney archgaiters a
thistle, or something,
under the War Precautions Act?
* * * *
“Itedivi”: I suppose they are stricter in
France with regard to non-regimental embel-
lishments, but on Gallipoli it was a
habit with the boys to adorn the bands of
their slouch hats with the name of the town
they came from. Some had just one name
showing, some two or more, but I saw one
bloke with: “CAIRNS. COONAMBLE.
BATHURST, WOl )ONGA, ECIIUCA.”
This roused the spirit of sarcasm in his
cobber, who came to light next day with:
“THE BLANKY BUSH.”
“ OH-HO!”
STAGE-MANAGER: “But why he so cut up over the loss of that little shopping-hag?”
THE ACTRESS: “ ‘Shopping-hag’ he hi owed! I had six changes of costume in that bag!”
“Longy”: If Billjim has caught special
attentions in England it isn’t because he
has chased them. Here is a typical instance.
At an English hospital where I was a cus-
tomer there were about a dozen Australians
among 120 patients. King George and his
Mary came to see us one day, and spoke to
every man, wisely making, no distinction
between Tommies and Australians. But on
the quiet he spread himself, telling the
Anzacs what he thought them. While the
Queen was talking to three Australian ser-
geants the matron (an Englishwoman)
beckoned to two of us who were seated with
three Tommies out on the lawn to come over
to the Queen. The Tommies of course read
the signal, too. My mate Bill swore a bit
and did not heed the beckon. When the
matron gave us the office again, by holding
up two fingers and then waving, Bill swore
a. bit more, and we stuck there with the
three Englishmen. The Queen, “dropping”
to it, came over and yarned to the five of
us. When the matron spoke of it later Bill
told the lady that we reckoned no difference
should be made between the Tommies and
ourselves. She let it go at that.
* * * *
“Duanrats”: The hard case, on leave
from Broadmeadows, arrived at Memourne
station without a ticket. Bustling through
at the barrier he thrust into the hand of
the collector a cigarette card. The aston-
ished man exclaimed in an injured voice:
“Here, that’s no good to me.” “Well, tear
the damned thing up,” cheerfully replied
the hopeful of the army as he melted into
the traffic.
* *• * *
The British Government is making an ex-
periment. It is withholding the ration
ticket, and putting the people on their honor
to eat no more per week than 41b. of bread,
2ilb. of meat and Jib. of sugar. This may
turn out all right. But the chances are that
it will not, and that John Bull will have to
line up at national refreshment-rooms. One
Australian training-camp has provided a
curious illustration of what is likely to
happen meanwhile. As a piece of economy
the men from various small camps have been
drafted to the big camp, and instead of the
food being sent out for division among a
few, it has to be scrambled for by as many
as 40 or 50 men. The consequence is that
the early-comers, knowing they will probably
be short to-morrow, as they may have been
the day before, take an over-generous help-
ing, and the late-comers must then go short.
It is a wasteful system; and the failure of
it in Australia on a small scale is prettv
sure to indicate what the result will be
when the same plan of help-yourself-but-
don t-take-too-much is adopted on a national
scale in England.
“The Tiger” : Last year the Government
was so badly treated oyer the wheat-buying
scheme that it has been found - necessary to
issue a regulation that no grain will be
received by the pool unless the bags are
stamped with the registered brand of the
owner. Thousands of bags of wheat were
received last season without the slightest
examination, and carelessness on the part
of the agents developed in Hayseed a sur-
prising originality. Bags filled with sand
were an item in the programme; stones also
found their way to the stacks; and second
grades were passed off as first. But the
Brigand Chief was discovered at Wyalong
(N.S.W.). He carted his wheat to the siding
in a two-horse dray. On his way thither
a fine horse, weighing nearly a ton, was
always between the shafts, and a quad, a
few hundredweights lighter in the lead. On
the weighbridge everything was weighed ex-
cept the leading horse. After taking the
wheat off the farmer would unyoke his
horses and feed them, and later, in order to
arrive at the net weight of the load, the
dray was scaled before the homeward
journey was commenced. Then, however,
the smaller horse was always between the
shafts. The robbery was not noticed till
the culprit became over-talkative in a con-
vivial moment.
AFTER THE TIFF.
SHE: “She acts so well one forgets how
she looks.”
HE: "And you look so well one forgets how
you act.”
THE BANQUET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I gowned myself with anxious haste
The joys of Pleasure’s feast to taste.
Swiftly my napkin I unwound,
And nibbled at the roll I found.
The service runs with ease and state—
llefore me still an empty plate.
The many courses come and go,
Nor taste of any do I know.
And still to taunt my thirsting eyes
The wines in near-by glasses rise.
So far am I beloyv the salt,
No slave will by my settle halt;
Soon will the hostess catch our eyes
And from our places all must rise ;
Starving, to dry old age I’ll creep
Mv longing eyes ton tired to weep.
•loyt will you spare me not one crumb,
Is this of Pleasure’s feast the sum—
A napkin round a slim French roll,
An olive and a finger bowl?
x.s.v.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


PIBRO” BOOT
links luxury
with small expense
THE “PIBRO” offers every scrap
of comfort possible without in any
measure sacrificing the style.
OFFERED IN
FINE BOX
CARF.
State your size and
have a pair sent on
approval.
27/6
PAIR,
P?ST FREE.
{'■V •'
■Mz.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
BRISBANE.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon 2/6
a la carte luncheon, from I/ 6
Table d’hote dinner 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6.
Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
IN CAT SOCIETY.
“I shudder when I think of my thirtieth
birthday.”
“Why? Whatever happened?”
Thus Melbourne lawyer Marshall Lyle on
lawyers:—
As regards the intellectual powers of lawyers their
principal defect has been stated by one of them,
Lord Tenterden. “Those who had been bred to the
law,” he said, “were rendered dull, by habit, to
many of its defects.” Charles Dickens explained
this dullness of lawyers (and especially of judges) :
it is due to the tendency of men to contract a
liking for those things which they have .studied at
great cost of time and intellect. This tendency
might be corrected by studying other things, but it
does not seem that this succeeds in Australia, or any-
where else. Except such lawyers as Bacon, - More,
Blackst'one and Romilly, the profession has always
been remarkable for its unintellectuality as regards
law reform, and the profession is much to blame for
bamboozling the stupid people who look to lawyers
as leaders in law reform. No profession has said so
many silly things against reform. It was Ellenborough
who said that England would be ruined if capital
punishment were abolished for stealing ss. worth
of wet linen from a bleaching-ground. The Lord
Chancellor in 1813 prophesied that every poor man’s
house in England would be broken into if the death
penalty were abolished for stealing ss. worth from
a shop. Lord Eldon, in tears, shuddered in the
House of Lords at the thought of what would happen
if the death penalty were abolished for forgery; and
Lyndhurst and Wynford agreed with him. And if I
were to quote some of the very stupid things that
Victorian and N. S. Wales judges and lawyers have
NOT GOING TO SPOIL THIS ONE.
UN[?]IE (who has just given s...all nephew a new knife): “I suppose you’ll carve your
name on the furniture with it?”
SMALL NEPHEW: “No Gar! I’m going to keep this one for best.”
said during the last 30 years I .would be only show-
ing that, no matter whether in Old World or New,
the same defect is apparent, viz., dullness produced
by too much legal study, i may add that the late
Lord Russell of Killowen once warned me not to
study the law too much. “Don’t study too much ;
know your facts and the human .beings you arc
dealing with.” This was his advice, often repeated,
and he was right. He was brilliant, because he
had the advantage of not being clogged and
oppressed with legal lore. Some day someone will
rise and demand the suppression of all law reports.
But meanwhile lawyers will continue to worship
them. Just think of the silly things judges say in
Australia 1 And just look at the rubbish in their
libraries 1
“Red Tape” loosens up:—
When war broke out a respectable number of
N. S. Wales public servants enlisted, and some of
the departments were denuded of eligible single
men. Most of the Service, however, is married and
a lot of it is old. But whatever they were they
all were loud in their talk of helping the Empire.
In a burst of patriotism it was decided that incre-
ments in the higher ranks should be suspended,
increases to top-storey salaries should stop alto-
gether, that all hands should work until 5 p.m.
instead of knocking off at 4.30, and that annual
leave should be given up. The patriotic mood
lasted three months. Then a bombardment of
medical certificates broke down the annual leave
barrier. Next a section clamored successfully for
their increments, and, naturally, the usual crop of
increases to the big men joined the procession.
Now the extra half-hour of duty is to disappear
on April 1, to re-appear (it is said) on November
1. To-day the Public Service is operating under
pre-war conditions, the departments pursue their
old unruffled way, and but for an occasional “Roll
of Honor” there is nothing to show that war is on.
The only sound that breaks the summer’s peace is
the pursuit of the skirts of influence up the back
stairs and the wail of “Backsheesh!” from some poor
soul in its agony.
The suspicion that the average State-
school teacher is a discontented toiler was
confirmed last week. The N. S. Wales Edu-
cation Department required six truant-
inspectors, and restricted applications to the
service. The Minister was shocked to learn
that 90 per cent, of the male teaching staff
had applied. The jobs carried £2OO per
annum, increasing by £25 annually to £3OO.
Apparently all teachers receiving less than
£2OO applied, but there were also many appli-
cants from teachers in the higher grades. As
the Department is admittedly short of male
teachers, and the duties of the truant-chaser
only require long legs and an eagle eye, why
not go outside the service? The supply of
returned soldier is not yet exhausted.
llenure writes home :
Good tay! How’s to. game? I pass it te time it
to only way, so meself to I tinlc it 1 trop you te
few line of word. I in France with all te Germans,
and pi cripes all te wahines; py korry I never see
te finest wahines yet before. When I see all tis
tings I tink it I sec all round te world. I in
England and pecn to London, and see plenty much
good tings I tdl it to you After te war I propaply
stop in London; but I tink it I die m France, lviu
O,X.
* * * *
“Homagen”: For cheerfulness in a big
scrap 1 the Australians will do me. In August
last at Pozieres we were holding the
front line in our turn.
This ' trench had been
made in a hurry, and was
only 30in. wide. There
was a man every three
or four yards, lounging
about to be as comfortable
as possible, his rifle _ some-
where near him (if it was
not lost in the mud), his
pockets bulging with
bombs, and if he wasn’t
smoking a wet cigarette he
was trying to borrow one.
By day and night a run-
ning fire of conversation
went backwards and for-
wards from man to man
for about a mile. To let
a despatch-runner or
stretcher-bearer pass, each
man in turn would lie
down and let the traveller
walk over him, then get
up, scrape, himself and call
himself Sir Walter
Raleigh. There was a foot
of mud and slush at the
bottom of the trench, yet
while the chaps were in it
I never heard it alluded to
as anything but a good
subject to joke about.
That’s the Australian way.
They’re born grouchers
whenever grouching
doesn’t really matter. But
when the job’s on, and
grouching would matter,
they forget everything in the delight of
action and responsibility.
* * * *
“8.1. D.”: My friend Brother George
(known after the flesh as George Cook)
enters a mild protest against the par. (B.
3/2/T7) about the Ingathering of the Israel-
ites of the House of David. George says
that the real difference between the Chris-
tian Israelites looked after by Shadrach
Hertel and his kind isn’t a matter of hair:
that is only an outward and visible sign.
The Christian Israelites, he says, are under
the law of Moses, and the David Israelites
have come out of the bondage of the law into
the light of the Gospel. Nor does he agree
that Australians are not admitted to mem-
bership of the House of David till all their
dross is paid over. There are two kinds of
Israelites. Those who feel the call to
separate themselves from the world go to
the sects’ headquarters at Benton Harbor.
Michigan, U.S.A., an establishment presided
over by Benjamin and Mary, and live the
community life. If they have any filthy
lucre (and some of them have had ,a fair
wallet) it has to be turned over to the com-
munity. But those who are not called go
on living in the world. Brother George has
been in the House of David for 12 years, but
he has never been to the U.S.A. and doesn t
expect to go. In the community, he says,
they neither marry nor are - given in
marriage, and those who are man and wife
live as if they were not. As George says,
this is the more perfect way, but is not for
everyone. Still, if it is left to the uncalled
to do all the multiplying and replenishing,
those who live the perfect life will never be
any fewer than they are, because they
achieve immortality here on earth. If a
member dies the explanation is easy; he has
gone astray somehow. Not that that matters
as much as you might think, for there is no
Hell.
* * * *
“Copabella” : The best thing at the A.N.A.
Exhibition in Melbourne was the remark of
a Footscray woman. She had just rescued
her five-year-old child from under the feet of
a rushing, struggling mob of women fighting
to get to the official feed at about 5 o’clock
on Anniversary Day. “Heavens!” she said
to an attendant. “Whoever are they?” “The
ladies,” he replied, “going to the luncheon.
Mr. Hughes is to speak.” “Don’t ladies get
enough to eat when they’re at home?”
queried the woman from Footscray. “They
do seem hungry.” The poor woman wasn’t
used to it. There aren’t any “ladies” in
Footscray.
* * * *
In lately filling in the census form in
M.L. one cocky stated his “length of resi-
dence” as 43ft. 71 in.
* * * *
“F.C.”: That Hun criminal in a recent
Bulletin who objected to fight because it
wasn’t in his sentence, finds a mate in one
of Victoria’s indeterminate eonfinces who
had been promoted to the comparative free-
dom of the tree-planting gang at French
Island. After a brief trial of healthy,
pleasant work he demanded to be returned
to Pentridge. Living in a camp, he said, was
not in his sentence: he wanted the simple
life where he was well looked after and had
everything done for him.
OUT OF EVIL COMETH GOOD.
H ER: “You've been frightfully good lately.”
HIM: “Yes; I’ve been so deaf with a cold
these last couple of weeks that I
haven’t been able to hear the voice of
temptation.”
IN OLD MAN’S LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you still remember, Sweetness, do you care still
to remember,
That sweet night of early summer, just about a
week ago,
When we sat upon your window-sill and watched the
garden grow ?
With exceeding scented fleetness —ah, the warm, kind
mid-November!—
The golden moments galloped towards the holy hour
of parting. . . .
And still my shins are smarting with what happened
when I went.
Happiness so soon is spent,
And I’m wearing, for remembrance, every sort of
bump and dent.
While your Pa reclined serenely, his remote cigar-
tip glowing,
Safely on the far verandah, nodding early off to
sleep,
We—we held each other’s hands, and, oh, the per-
fume wide and deep
Of the springing catmint greenly underneath your
casement growing!....
Down among the fragrant bashes wriggled Little
Brother, spying,
With extreme disfavor eyeing saucy Sister where
she sat.
Pa would shortly settle that
When good Willie woke him up to tell what Miss
Pauline was at.
No more then did Father “slumber, snoring rudely
there, staccato ;
Loudly snorting, up he started —started up in
wrath, alas!
And I went, like summer lightning, flashing through
the garden-glass.
Mashing up the young cucumber and the tender,
green tomato,
I fled flashing, smashing, crashing, with the mad old
bloke pursuing.
What the blazes was I doing in his garden, like t’
know.
Though our parting was a blow,
Pa’s language was so dreadful it seemed best for me
to go.
Yes, I went without delaying—your fatheaded father
willed it —
Right across the dewy evening, crushing greens
beneath my boots
And retreating at the double as I heard his crazy
hoots.
Oh, good Lord! What he was saying! Down the
lovely night he shrilled it
Like a barmy-brained old blighter.... I was sorry
for you, darling,
When I heaid that sudden snarling, but of course I
had to clear
When your dear old Dad drew near,
With an uproar like an army closing in upon my
rear.
VICTORIA.
O. L.


KEEPING UP APPEARANCES.
WOOOROW WILSON: “Of course I shall not blow tile nasty thins off, but It looks well to lie seen tinkering round with it.”


THE SUBMARINE CAMPAIGN.
"So the devils besought.....and, behold, the whole herd of swine ran violently down a steep place into the sea.”—St. Matthew.


HOW TO STOP PAIN IN STOMACH.
THE VALUE OF MAGNESIA AND
HOT WATER.
Generations of people have employed hot
water as a soother of pain in the stopiacli,
but modern physicians and specialists have
discovered and used successfully an addi-
tion which renders the hot water trebly
efficacious. Hot water is still recommended
in all cases of stomach pain, from whatever
cause arising, hut still better results are
obtained if a little bisurated magnesia is
added. Hot water attracts blood to the
painful part and the bisurated magnesia
neutralises the acid, which is usually the
underlying cause of the pain. That is why
such excellent results follow combination of
the two. Readers who are subject to pain
in .the stomach, especially after eating,
should try this hot water and magnesia
recipe. It renders dieting quite unneces-
sary, for by slowly drinking half a glassful
of hot water containing half a tea-
spoonful of bisurated magnesia immediately
after meats, the dangerous stomach acids
are destroyed, and food remains bland and
sweet until perfectly digested. The bisu-
rated magnesia, which is extensively used
in hospitals, can readily be obtained from
chemists everywhere; but to avoid confu-
sion with the acetates, citrates and oxides
of magnesia or equally unsuitable, mixtuies
of bismuth and magnesia, it is important
that bisurated should be asked for a ery
distinct! y.—Advt.
m
Enjoy.the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
rearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
m
/
mm
f?.
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY m
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Re the use of the great Australian slan-
guage by our German friends in the trenches.
Will Dyson writes of an Anzac who took
three German prisoners on his own. and
who explains: “My idea in gettin’ at them
was to go right through ’em with the
bayonet; but the first one put fight light out
of my mind. ‘I surrender,’ he said. ‘Fair
do, old bloke.’ ”
REJECTED.
THE DRUNK: “’Strut! (hie), you reject
me (hie), do yer!!—Orlright (hie),
reject me, an’ you’ll blanky well lose
the (hie) war.”
Last week Basil Watson flew from Warr-
nambool to Hamilton (Vic.), 614 miles by
the line he took, in 29 minutes. Basil is
home-grown—one of the Bendigo Watsons —
and so is his aeroplane. lie made it himself
of all-Australian materials.
One State Governor has told his friends
that lie will resign if called upon to sign a
death-warrant. The genial Carmichael while
in Victoria lived in dread of having to sign
away a life; and Ilopetoun, after completing
his first document condemning a man to the
rope, fainted dead away, and didn’t revive
until he had given everybody around a great
scare. Lieutenant-Govs., being mostly legal
gentlemen, are all contemptuous of this
undignified weakness.
Captain George Rankin and Lieut. Nor-
man Itae, of the Rochester (Vic.) irrigation
• country, have been promoted Lieut.-Colonel
and Major, respectively, in Egypt. In the
days of peace both were eoc-kies with a
fondness for horses and monthly Light
Horse parades. They enlisted at the out-
break of trouble, but were soon sporting
stars again. Norman was the “boy” presi-
dent of the -,ochester A. and P. Society
that year, and Rankin was looking forward
to a hot time harvesting—though not in the
Fields of Death.
“G.W.D.”: Dead lately, the Marquis de
Breteuil, an old
friend of King
Edward. Born in
’4B. of a family
w h i c h gave
Fra n c e three
Ministers of
State, he fought
in the Franco-
Prussian w a r.
and, incidentally/
introduced (lam-
betta to Edward,
then Prince of
Wales. In ’BB
he advocated a
Franco - Russian-
British entente
as “a natural
alliance based on
the interest of
the three great
nations and for
which there is
no need to sign
treaties.” But lie
also believed in
Boulanger being
an aid to a re- >
stored and demo-
cratic monarchy,
and his politics
then came to an
abrupt end.
WEBSTER,
Postmaster-
General.
Melbourne Paunch intended to say:
"William Hughes is to-day the most active
force in Australian politics.” But a comp,
who knew better made “farce” of it.
Dick Sleath, whom old-man Parkes fav-
ored among all the early N.S.W. Labor
members, resurrected himself at the first
meeting of the “National” party in Syd-
ney last week. Time hasn’t mellowed the
old strike-leader and “conspirator,” and he
was only heard protesting against the
wretched dozen or two present presuming
to elect a permanent committee to run the
concern.
Judge Rutledge, of Queensland, who died
last week, was one of three brothers who all
went into Methodist pulpits and all but one
dropped out again. The father came this
way nearly 80 years ago and settled at
Castlereagb. near Penrith. He belonged to
a sect known in England as “The Shakers.”
The eldest son, Arthur, left the ministry,
studied law, practised in Queensland, and in
his old age was made a judge. Another left
the Methodies and died an Anglican. The
third, Woolls, after running a small paper
at Grafton, joined the Methody brotherhood
and stayed there.
Two Australians who wear Anglican
gaiters in foreign parts are Arthur M. and
11. J. C. Knight, sons of that “Parson
Knight” of whom old hands on the N. S.
Wales South Coast still tell yarns. Back in the
’so’s and ’6o’s he circulated the only Angli-
can collection-plate in that part, with head-
quarters at Bega, where the two bishops
were born. Tlreir mother is buried in the
local cemetery. Dad went to the Cold
Country after her death, taking the boys
with him. Both got “double firsts” at Cam-
bridge. The younger son, Arthur, bished at
Rangoon (Burma) from 1903 to 1912, but
is now head of St. Augustine's College for
training missionary priests at Canterbury
(Eng.). His elder brother was Dean of
Corpus Christi, Cambridge, till 1911, when
he was made a sort of episcopal ganger to
keep the Anglican chaplains in southern
Europe up to the .collar. Another Aus-
tralian, 11. Iv. Archdall, now Dean of New-
castle, succeeded him in his Cambridge job.
As Anglicanism claims to be part of the
Church, it doesn’t appoint bishops
in R.C. countries or set up churches there
except “chaplaincies” for the convenience of
English residents and tourists. Knight is
consequently known as “Bishop of Gibral-
tar,” that being a British possession which
doesn’t happen to have an R.C. prelate on
the premises.
E. J. Watt, pastoralist and racing man,
who has been held by a Maoriland magistrate
to be exempt from military service there on
the ground that his “home is in Australia.”
owes everything to the other country, any-
how. and still has considerable interests over
,\under. Watt was born in Maoriland, in-
herited a valuable slice of it. and is one of a
family that never bothers about an over-
draft. His father was a merchant-squatter,
from whom young Watt inherited the valu-
able Longlands estate, Hawkes Bay, most
of which was subsequently sold on sub-
division. But he took more interest in
racing than anything else outside his bank
account, is best known in Australia as the
owner of Mountain Knight, and has had one
string of horses in the Commonwealth and
another in Maoriland. One of Watt's sisters
is the wife of George Lowry, proprietor of
the famous Desert Gold. Another married a
Walters, of the London Times clan.
Maoriland got a bargain when John
Harper, just dead at the age of 90. landed
with the Canterbury Pilgrims from their
four stout ships. The Harper family first
lived in a cave at Heathcote, then in a sod
hut. John ran a coach and tilled the soil,
and the family multiplied and flourished.
As a legacy to the country that had treated
him well the old man left six sons, four
daughters, 60 grandchildren, 72 great-grand-
children and two great-great-grandchildren.
Died at Sydney, aged 72, Mark Breach,
ancient mariner. Breach came first to Aus-
tralia in 1860 as master of the barque Jeru-
salem. and for many years traded between
London and Sydney in charge of clippers
under the Aberdeen White Star flag, his
last command being the Patriarch. When
he left the sea he hung out his sign as a
marine surveyor.
Captain W. W. Dove, who at 22 has won
the Military Cross in Flanders, is a nephew
of now-deceased Norton Dove, one time S.M.
at Broken Hill. Young Dove went to Samoa
with the Maoriland expeditionary force in
the first month of the war, and after helping
to kick the Huns out of the group moved
on to Egypt in time to see the curtain rung
down on the Gallipoli tragedy. His M.C.
came to him for gallantry at Flers.
A send-off from the big timber: —
Re Reg Lindsay, just dead in France, and the
family gift. I came across Reg when he was assist-
ant-ranger in the Bet Bet forest country. He
camped at the township pub and kept its boarders
amused with lightning sketches of local characters.
One day there was a timber-getters’ row in the pub
bar and a man fell through one of the highly-omate
futurist windows. To replace the glass was easy
enough—the store stocked everything—but the
harassed publican was in despair at the thought of
having'to get an artist out from Bendigo to restore
the coloring. “The new forester’s a bit ’v a drorer,”
suggested one of the bar council, and the “drorer"’
was duly approached. Reg agreed, without a smile,
and in a few days the new pane flamed out 'with a
bold black BAR, lined with signal red on a pale
greenery-yallery ground, own brother to the existing
window. In addition to memories of a good com-
panion one Backblocks township at least will have
a tangible memorial of Reg Lindsay.
There is one member of Parliament hurry-
ing about the French Front and not worry-
ing about a sentence of death. Fie is Lieut.
George Weill,
an Alsatian
who was
elected to the
German Reich-
stag for Metz
in 1911. When
the war broke
out he crossed
the frontier to
civilisation, and
is now a staff-
officer of the
First Infantry
Division. The
II un s con-
demned him to
death. But as
Weill Says that
naught’s we 11
that ends Weill,
he isn’t attend-
ing . the Reich-
stag just now.
HARRY
JULIUS,
caricaturist,
shortly leaving
for U.S.A.
A returned soldier named Sam Brown
got up to speak a piece at a meeting at
Walcha (N.S.W.). He said that he had
10 brothers at the Front, and that his father,
aged 58. was also fighting. Ilis father-in-law
had died in his boots for all those present.
What did the meeting think of that record?
The meeting showed him. It gave him three
hearty cheers. But it didn’t give him half
a recruit.
The efficient woman doesn’t seem to find
the struggle so hard as it used to be. Miss
Elizabeth McNeill, who has been town
clerk, valuer and collector to the borough
of Ararat (A ic.) for some time, has just
been given the billet of secretary to Stawell
shire. The position was previously held
by civil-engineer Angus Clarke. Now
Stawell is to have an engineer at an
engineer’s wage, and the secretary's job is to
be a distinct one.
VISTAKEN GENEROSITY.
“Thin is a bonza cigar you give me, Bill."
“Gripes! I must ’are give yon. the wrong
one!”
From Cranbourne (Vic.), to which quiet
little town the news of the murder of Edith
C a veil has apparently just penetrated, comes
the bright suggestion to the Central Recruit-
ing Committee that a corps should he organ-
ised under the title of “The Nurse Cavell
Avengers.” Why not “The Cavelliers”?
Awarded D.S.O. last month for work in
Egypt, Major Andrew J. Dwyer, of the
sth Pioneer Battalion. He got his earliest
military training in the State School Cadets
at Carlton, and was a bugler in the first.
Battalion of the Victorian Rifles. He
bugled later for the 3rd Victorian Bushmen in
S’Africa, where lie won the Queen’s Medal
with five bars. After that he had many years
as an assistant at the Fairfield State School
where he trained the cadet team that won
the Sargood Challenge Shield Competition.
Dr. £ £ Be van, who has just had his jubilee
as a preacher in the Collins-street Indepen-
dent tabernacle, had in his day four offers
of a party nomination for the House of
Commons, free of election exes. And once
it was so much of a Liberal pocket borough
that a walk-over was sure.
A notable Maoriland guide and explorer
has dropped out of the team, and will take
things easy for the rest of his years. No
more will Donald Sutherland ferry tourists
across Milford Sound to rest, under his hos-
pitable roof. The Government has planned
a hostel to stand alongside the old accommo-
dation-lmt. so the awed stranger will still be
able to hear the story of the taniwha that
Sutherland saw and see the prooTs lie
possesses that the Maori devil is no myth.
Charles Broughton Boydell, the just-
retired Clerk to the Australian Senate, is a
grandson of William Grant Broughton, who
in 1836 was the first-appointed Bishop in
Australia. 11 is spiritual jurisdiction covered
the continent and Maoriland. Eldest-daugh-
ter Mary Phoebe married William Boydell,
a settler on the land at Paterson. Their
son, Charles Broughton, worked in the N. S.
Wales State Assembly from 1873 till April.
1901. when he was appointed Clerk-assistant
to the House of Reps., and from there
passed to the clerkship of the Chamber that
has Prime Minister Hughes stung to death.
Another prominent N. S. Wales unionist,
F. T. Turner, general secretary of the
Enginedrivers and Firemen's, is getting into
khaki. Turner believes that the army must
h.ave men even though they be husbands and
fathers. A wife and five children will pray
for his safe return. But lie was always a
fighter. When H. A. Mitchell battled to
organise a scattered body of men with a
very small idea of the value of organisation,
the Enginedrivers and Firemen's union was
practically Mitchell and his adjutant Turner.
By .getting awards and agreements—many
obtained by strong bluff —the pair tremen-
dously improved conditions for the men
around the fires and made the struggling
organisation a success. Then, when their
reward was about due, they found the men
they had battled for breathing suspicions
about the “good thing” they had on with
the Ass. Mitchell, wearied, got out and
in came industrial advocate for the big
Broken Hill Prop. Turner, who took his
place, is now off to a fairer fight.
THE [?]VABLE CHARACTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
i long for the streets, but the Lord knoweth best,
For there I am never a saint;
There are lovable characters out in the West,
With humor heroic and quaint;
And, be it Up Country, or be it Out Back,
When I shall have gone to my Home,
I trust to be buried ’twi.vt Uiver and Track
Where my lovable characters roam.
There are lovable characters drag through the scrub.
Where the Optimist ever prevails ;
There are lovable characters hang round the pub,
There are lovable jokers at sales
Where the auctioneer’s one of the lovable wags
(Maybe from his ‘“order” estranged),
And the beer is on tap, and the pigs in the bags
Of the purchasing cookies arc changed.
There were lovable characters out in the West,
Of fifty hot summers, or more,
Who could not be proved, when it came to the test.
Too old to be sent to the war:
They were all forty-five and were orphans, they said,
With no one to keep them, or keep ;
And mostly in France, with the world’s bravest dead,
Those lovable characters sleep.
1 long for the streets, but the Lord knoweth' best,
For there I am never a saint;
There are lovable characters out in the West.
With humor heroic and quaint ;
And, be it Up Country,, or be it Out Back,
When ,1 shall have gone to my Home,
1 trust to be buried ’twixt River and Track
Where my lovable characters roam.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


NO BOOT OR SHOE
IS PRICED TOO HIGH
IF THE QUALITY CORRESPONDS.
LOW-PRICED FOOTWEAR ALWAYS CARRIES
WITH IT THE RISK OF DISSATISFACTION.
WHICH QUALIFIES ITS APPEARANCE OF
GOOD VALUE.
BUT WHEN A BOOT
OR SHOE OF STANDARD
MAKE AND QUALITY IS OFFERED, AS IS
HERE THE CASE, at a price both reasonable and
fair, its purchase represents the surest and safest way to
get full money’s worth.
STYLE iso. 110. The illustration above faithfully pictures this
most shapely and popular last. Full-goloshed in best grade patent
calf, with soft/dull kid leg and genuinely welted English oak-tanned
leather soles. There is exceptional wear in this good boot, which is
certainly moderately priced. Stocked in. narrow and medium fittings
and all sizes for men. 25/“ P er pair.
STYLE No. 492, A high-grade all-patent Calf Lace Boot, exactly similar to
Style No. 110 in all other details. Two fittings and all sizes are available.
32/6 per pair.
STYLE iSTo. 282. Illustrated below is a special quality Black Box
Calf Blucher cut lace boot, with medium width welt and weight of
sole. Leather-lined throughout, with unbreakable back. There is
comfort in both the full and extra-wide fittings available, and
unusually long wear in the extra-grade leathers in both uppers and
soles. All sizes for men. 27/6. per pair.
< A boot in all respects similar to Style No. 282. but with
drill linings. Exceptional value. 18/6 per pair.
STYLE No. 288, This high-grade Black Box Cjilf Lace Boot is a full-
goloshed model last, in style and fitting very similar to Style 282, as
illustrated. Heavy-weight soles with extended welts make this a most
suitable boot for wet and winter weather wear., Brice 27/6 per pair.
Country customers send for Art Catalogue, which illustrates
and describes many other smart styles in good footwear.
Carriage is paid on all Country Orders.
Gowing Bros. Ltd.,
Sole Agents in Australia for British-built Saxone Shoes,
484 to 490 George Street; 3 to 17 Royal
Arcade; and 304 George Street (near
Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
1
Wr
o
n
Z
z
o
O
(77
NO
O
77
Oo
NO
O
o
H
O
GO
(77
>
70
SI&
O-":
O
T7?:-.v
SESS
(Mil
*
o
J3*
. ~
iv ;
•-.
■7


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street ,
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of: —
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
. Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Ass’n
382 George Street, SYDNEY. Limited
Transacts Life, Endowment, Personal and General Accident Business.
Life Assurance Po icifis contain Disability and Hospital Benefit Clauses.
Reliable and Capable Travelling and Local Agents required throughout the Commonwealth.
S. P. WOOD, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The movement of the Commonwealth
public debt has been this way:—
June, 1911. . £15,580,771 June, 1915. . £37,428,830
„ 1912.. 16,020,296 „ 1916.. 101,252,949
„ 1913.. 17,079,398 Dec., 1916.. 140,730,768
„ 1914.. 19,182,333
Incidentally the States have been doing their
bit at another rate of speed :
June, 1911. .£267,127,283 June, 1915. .£342,925,669
„ 1912.. 277,124,095 „ 1916.. 356,337,064
„ 1913.. 294,472,486 Dec., 1916. . 367,436,823
„ 1914.. 317,598,788
There is £30,000,000 or so to be added to the
Commonwealth debt in connection with the
note issue; but, leaving that aside, since
1911 the increases have been:—•
Commonwealth . . £125,150,597
States . . • . . 100,309,54,0
Between them they have made Australia
proprietor of a blister nearly twice as big
as it was before, the comparison being:—
1911 .. £282,708,060
1916 . . . . 508,167,591
And each inhabitant of the Commonwealth
now owes £lO5 instead of the paltry £62 he
hadn’t paid in 1911. In the latter year the
estimated value of production from all in-
dustries in the Commonwealth was
£188,581,000; it may now be about
£215,000,000. In neither year was it big
enough to keep the country put of debt even
if the war bill is omitted. As the latter can-
not be omitted in actual practice, is leaping
up by over a million and a half a month, and
will certainly leap for a long time yet, The
Bulletin asks whether any member of Aus-
tralia’s 14 Houses of Parliament, the P.L.L.,
the Liberal caucus or the Democratic Federa-
tion has thought for five consecutive
minutes on how, when and where production
in Australia is going to catch up.
*•■**•*
The Australian Bank of Commerce
(Sydney), formerly the A.J.S. Bank: —
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1910. . £11,670 3 p.c.= £8,441 £3,229 £3,229
Dec., 1910.. 18,421 34 „,. 18,103 318 3,547
June, 1911.. 14,957 24 „„ 14,550 407 3,954
Dec., 1911.. 12,268 24 „„ 14,850 1,372
June, 1912.. 24,249 24 „„ 14,936 9,313 10,685
Dec., 1912.. 25,863 3* „„ 17,929 7,934 18,619
June, 1913.. 28,312 3 „ „ 17,932 10,380 28,999-
Dec., 1913. . 28,808 3 ~,,17,932 10,876 39,875
June, 1914.. 26,145 3 ~,,17,934 8,211 48,086
Dec., 1914.. 28,094 3 „ „ 17,934 10,160 58,246
June, 1915.. 27,241 3 ~„ 17,937 9,304 67,550
Dec., 1915.. 29,471 3 ~ „ 17,942 11,529 79,079
June, 1916.. 29,124 3 „ „ 17,961 11,163 90,242
Dec., 1916.. 31,202 3 „ „ 17,980 13,222 103,464
The evil that men do lives after them; and
just about the worst that any man can do
for his country is to supply it with artificial
conditions through lavish foreign borrowings.
Artificial conditions were produced in this
country 25 years ago, and this bank lent
very largely on the boom values then created.
\yhen the boom stopped, the values crashed ;
and this bank —or, rather, its predecessor,
the A.J.S. —could not pay its depositors. The
struggle went on for weary years; and then
a scheme was hatched by late general-mana-
ger Stewart to clean up the wreckage. After
twisting things this way and that, there
seemed no way out but to capitalise one-
fourth of the old debt; and that was so large
that, with the bit of old capital left, the
total share capital is £1,198,679 —all now
fully paid. Another one-lialf of the old debt
was converted, into 4 p.c. inscribed deposits;
and, as £15,000 of these have to be redeemed
each half-year (though not necessarily out of
profits), this lot lias been reduced to
£1,555,605. The capital is very large in pro-
portion to the total funds. All the other
money at the disposal of the bank—deposits,
etc. —is equal to only £1 9s. for every £1 of
the share capital and inscribed stock com-
bined. In these circumstances a large divi-
dend on the capital is at present out of the
questionq and the 3 p.c. to which the direc-
tors have thus far limited themselves is not
attractive.
But little by little both the borrowing and
the lending public will see that in this case
the small dividend, instead of being a sign of
weakness, as it often is, is a sign of strength.
For it means that thei*e is an overwhelming
amount of money fixed in the business to
safeguard the deposits. The bank owes the
depositors and other creditors who can with-
draw their money £3,955,640. Deduct
£2.013,399, the cash and liquid assets, and
£1.942,241 remains; and against that debt
to the public there are advances £4,444,898,
with £15,000 set by to purchase
stock and £358,132 in bank premises; and
bank premises and the advances taken over
from the old bank in 1909 were written down
hard. If a depositor wants assets against
his little bit, he can’t hope to find a bank in
Australia that can show him better figures.
But perhaps the bank has had more
trouble in finding satisfactory borrowers. In
the weary years of liquidation the public
didn’t exactly rush the A.J.S. with its best
business. The prudent borrower wants a
bank whose future is so sure that it can be
trusted not to call up the loan at the most
awkward time; and the A.J.S. wasn’t that
sort of bank. So moss grew up around it;
and the A. 8.0. has had to wear a new path
to the doors. It has been a slow process, but
none the worse on that account. Going back
to the December before the war year, there
have been these changes, and they are all for
the better: —
Dec., 1913. Dec., 1915. Dee., 1916.
Paid capital . . £1,195,447 £ 1,196,109 £ 1,198,679
Inscribed deposits 1,672,738 1,595,334 1,555,665
All other debts . . 3,099,067 3,487,563 3,955,640
Liquid assets .. 1,735,315 1,818,776 2,013,399
Advances, etc. . . 3,914,038 4,187,098 4,444,898
■Premises. . . . 360,706 355,153 358,132
Thus in three years the new bank has won
public confidence to the extent of £856,573
of new deposits, etc., and it has increased its
lending business by just over half-a-million.
Meantime, naturally, profits have steadily
improved; and, provided there is no catas-
trophe ahead of us, they ought to be at least
as good as long as money is dear. For dear
money suits the shareholders admirably.
With cheap money there isn’t much profit on
the million and a half of 4 p.c. inscribed
deposit stock; but 1 p.c. improvement in the
net earnings of that money is equal to very
nearlv 14 p.c. extra profit on the share
capital.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship
Co., Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Transferred to capital, £17,601 .. £11,993
Dee., ’09..£11,341 10 p.c. = £4,840 £6,501 18,494
June, ’lO.. 13,280 10 „ „ 5,280 8,000 26.494.
Dec., ’lO.. 18,971 134 „ ~ 7,040 11,931 38,425
June, ’ll.. 24,477 13J „ „ 7,040 17,437 55,862
Dec., ’ll.. 23,861 13J ~ „ 7,040 16,821 72,683
Transferred to capital, £52,803 . . 19,880
June, ’12.. 19,245 134 p.c. = 10,561 8,684 28,564
Dec., ’12.. 23,705 134 „ „ 10,561 13,144 41,708
June, ’13.. 21,405 134 „ 10,561 10,844 52,552
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £52,803 .. 251
Reserves.
Dec., ’13.. 54.765 134 p.c. = 14,081 40,684 40.433
June, ’14.. 18,606 134 „ ~ 14,081 4,525 44,958
Dec., ’14.. 19,791 134 „ „ 14,081 5,710 50.668
June, ’15.. 17,210 134 „ „ 14,081 3,129 53,797
Dec., ’15.. 16,336 131 „ „ 14,081 2,255 56,052
June, ’16.. 13,909 134 „ „ 14,081 55.880
Dec., ’16.. 14,360 134 „ „ 14,081 279 56,159
How those on the inside of this.concern must
smile when they see the pack chasing the
Sydney Ferries and barking about its mon-
strous charges in comparison with those of
the Manly Co.! As a matter of fact, Sydney
Ferries has been and still is a poor, struggling
journeyman compared with this finished artist
in money-making and stock-watering. The
Manly Co.’s paid capital fog many years was
only £25,000; but there were also at one
time £25,000 of debentures, which had been
issued to buy out a rival co. In 1907 the
capital was watered and the £20,000 of de-
bentures then left were swapped for shares.
No other money has been got in. That is to
su.y, the capital put into the co. was
£45,000; and £3OOO of that represented the
purchase of the goodwill of the bought-out
Manly Co-operative Co. Shareholders have
thus supplied £42,000 of the assets of the
co.; the nublic has supplied the rest.
The old £25.000 of shares and £20.000 of
debentures have now been watered up to
281,616 shares paid to 15s. = £211,212, carry-
ing a 134 p.c. dividend.
And things are still going pretty well.
Three years of war, during which the public
is supposed to , have been gradually learning
to practise economy, have given this Tesult:
Dec.,’l3. June,’l6. Dec.,’l6.
Assets other than steamers,
freehold and plant .. £70,737 £108,973 £110,697
Liabilities 2,247 1,918 1,790
Surplus liquid assets. . £68,490 £107,055 £108,907
So in these three years, the co., besides pay-
ing the gorgeous dividend and keeping up the
fleet almost to naval form (in all the world
there are no better-kept steamers), has
dropped £40,417 into its stocking—almost as
much as the capital actually put up by
shareholders. And that is a mere trifle laid
by in three years to provide for renewals and
cover contingencies. If Sydney Ferries could
show figures like that it probably wouldn’t
mind if the public did bark at it. The differ-
ence between the two is the same as the
difference between Jhe Silverton Tramway
Co., which can make 60 p.c. or 80 p.c. divi-
dends, and the ordinary railway system,
which finds it difficult as a whole to show 5
p.c. or 6 p.c. The Manly Co., like the Silver-
ton Tram Co., doesn’t do any pioneering.
Unlike the Sydney Ferries it has no new, un-
profitable lines. It picks up all its freight
at one whftrf and drops it at another. And
it keeps in excellent odor with the Manly
resident by giving him a ticket for next to
nothing. The tripper has to pay all of a fair
thing: perhaps a bit more. But if he does
howl, what does it matter? One tripper
howling at Leichhardt and another at Surry
Hills wouldn’t make any politician take
notice. And it is from the politician—State
and municipal—that this co. has most to
fear. That and a tremendous bill for com-
pensation after a collision some day.
* * * *
The New Zealand Refrigerating Co.,
Ltd., formerly the Christchurch Meat Co.,
one of the big meat-freezing concerns of
Maoriland :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Oct., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. 9,618
1906.. 57,657 8 p.c.= 12,938 - 44,719 54,337
1907.. 53.811 8 „„ 13,005 17,500 23,306 77,643
1908.. 37.075 8 „ „ 13,203 19,024 4,848 82,491
1909.. 50.622 8 „ „ 13,433 22.265 14,924 97,415
1910.. 75.719 10 „ „ 16,915 23,560 35,244 132,659
1911.. 42.213 10 „ „ 16,915 15,000 10,298 142,957
1912.. 41.269 10 „ „ 16,915 15,000 9,354 152,311
1913. 10 „ „ 16,915 20,000 845 153,156
1914. 10 „ „ 16,919 30,000 146,675
1915.. 42.564 11 ~ „ 18,615 23,949 170,624
1916.. 44.851 12 „ „ 20,307 24,544 195,168
The co. changed its name during the year,
finding the old one too local now that busi-
ness has slopped over to the North Island,
starting at Wanganui. Possibly as compen-
sation to shareholders for having to part
with an old friend they are given an extra
1 p.c., making 12 p.c. for the year. Still
this is a case in which shareholders deserve
a good dividend ; for in proportion to profits
the disbursements used to be small, with the
result that to-day, while the share capital is
£173,254, the visible- reserves are £195,168.
Besides these visible reserves there is pro-
bably some contingency fund. At any rate,
a very large amount has been written right
out of the balance-sheet during the past 10
years, this money being spent on additions
and renewals of works, ostensibly as a set-off
against depreciation.
This shows what has been done with the
disclosed profits of the past 10 years:—
Dividends.. .. .. .. .. £163,142
Written off (spent on additions and
renewals) , . . . . . . . . 162,349
Added to reserves .. .. . . 140,831
Total profit . . £466,322
Note, by the way, that during the past two
years no amount is shown as written off.
Apparently, realising that discretion is the
better part of valor, the management now
cuts down the visible profits by whatever
amount it thinks necessary to cover wear
and tear. The effect is to throw the first
column of figures in the table out of step. It
is pretty certain that the co. hasn’t changed
its policy, which was declared in 1911 as
follows:—■
This meeting of shareholders endorses and ap-
proves of the policy as indicated in the directors'
speech in regard to the. conservation of surplus
assets so as to provide for depreciation and create
funds to work the business and eventually form
gold reserves.
If the management is still pursuing that
policy, but deducting something before dis-
closing profits instead of afterwards, then
perhaps, in order to make the first column
uniform, 20 or 30 thousand pounds should be
added to the declared profits of each of the
last couple of years. As for the past year
something unspecified is also frankly provided
for “taxation and sundry contingencies.”
A further view of 10 years’ history is .
given hereunder: —
1906. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Debentures ..£173,500 £150,000 £150,000
Other liabilities 91,319 £81,619 307,385 496,723
Property, plant,
etc 369,647 297,723 273,522 464,042
Liquid assets . . 128,368 99,891 542,587 564,641
Liquid assets in excess of liabilities other
than debentures totalled £37,049 10 years
ago; now they total £67,928. Meantime
£23,500 of debentures have been paid off, but
£7334 of share capital has been got in. Here
you have it then: in 10 years net liquid
assets have been increased by £30,879 and
debenture liabilities reduced by £16,166 out
of profit; in addition, profits have paid for
all the additions and extensions of works.
And that, of course, is on top of the divi-
dends, which have run up from 8 p.c'. to 12
p.c.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney :
To Re- Re-
. Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dee., 1912.. £3345 lQp.c. = £2832 £513 £7061
June, 1913.. 3565 10 „ „ 2832 733 7794
Dec., 1913.. 2127 8 ~ „ 2266 7655
June, 1914.. 1719 7 ~ „ 1982 7392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 „ ~ 1982 7261
June, 1915.. 2023 7 „ „ 1982 41 7302
Dec., 1915.. 2399 7 ~ „ 1982 417 7719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 „ ~ 2832 7130
Dec., 1916.. 3080 10 „ „ 2832 248 7378
“There has been a slight decrease in the
demand for some of the co.’s products,” the
directors say, “owing to the curtailment of
operations in many local industries”; yet
Australia last year imported goods to the
value £81,923,955, or no less than
£12,435,036 more than it did in the preceding
year. Naturally there is a howl for more
public loans in order to “provide work ”
What we actually do with the loans is to
provide a few odd jobs at dirt-shifting, and
so on, for our own people and a great deal
more work of a superior kind for the people
of other countries. Having the hides and
tanning barks (though not nearly as much
of the latter as we should have) we ought to
be a very large manufacturer and exporter
of leather. But the boom conditions that
have been created by bad borrowing and
worse spending have made it difficult for
leather-makers to compete with foreigners
who are not nearly so well situated with
regard to raw materials. And we won’t do
much good until the evil effects wear off. In
particular we will have to root out the para-
sites who now make the cost of living so
outrageously dear in a country where it
ought to be as cheap as in any white-man's
land, in the world.
Meantime, J. (’. Ludowici and Son rely
upon their old-established reputation, and by
specialising in some lines for which they
have more than local fame, manage to show
fair results on a moderate capital of £56,644.
One advantage of this business is that it
requires very little plant; hence, though the
co. has its own freehold, and though stocks
are now up to £40,789, and book debts are
£8546, it manages to get along without going
further into debt than £4192. Apparently
buildings and plant are kept well written
down ; and generally, after a rather stormy
career for some time, the co. seems to be in
calm water. It has no goodwill or other
ballast to carry ; and if Australia gets sense
it ought to be a busy and profitable concern.
The Band Mortgage Bank of Victoria :
Profit Profit on
on Property Total Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. Dividend, serves
June, 1911.. £2404 £747 £3151 £49,320
Capital returned, 12s. per share, reducing
it to £58,308.
(20 p.c.)
Dec., 1911.. 1165 2056 3221 £14,577 37,964
(6 p.c.)
June, 1912.. 859 2126 2985 1,749 39,200
Dec., 1912.. 1868 30 1898 1,749 39,349
Loss. (8 p.c.)
June, 1913.. 2347 10 2337 2,332 39,354
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1913.. 2704 187 2891 2,679 39,566
June, 1914.. 2560 137 2697 2,679 39,5.84
Loss. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1914.. 2668 85 2583 2,679 39,488
June, 1915.. 247.3 164 2309 2,679 39,118
(6 p.c.)
Dec., 1915.. 2507 10 2497 2,296 39,319
June, 1916.. 2282 2282 2,296 39,305
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1916.. 2907 195 3102 2678 39,729
These are the bones of one of the corpses
that the borrowing wave of the late ’Bo’s left
stranded on the rocks. A few years ago, os
all hope of reclothing the skeleton had fled,
the Freehold Assets Co. bought almost
all the shares; and the “bank” is now prac-
tically a branch of the Assets Co. The latter
is in business as a financial knacker, selling
odd bits when it can, and making the best of
the remnant when it can’t. The position of
this Land Mortgage part of the business has
shifted as follows during the year:—
Dec., ’l5. Dec., T 6.
Advances on mortgage . . . . £32,474 £37,940
Balances owing on property sold. . 26,458 21,948
Cash, debentures, shares, etc. . . 59,557 59,423
Total assets £118,489 £119,311
Liabilities. . . . . . .. 30 30
Net assets £118,459 £119,281
Present capital is £76,528 in 145,770
shares paid to 11s, 6d. If the advances,
balances owing, shares in other cos. and
other assets bring their book value, then
there is 16s. per share after paying the
current dividend. But there is a doubt
whether book values will be realised; at any
rate, the gross income is under 54 p.c. of the
book value of the assets, and that is small
enough to suggest that there is still some
dead-wood to be cut out.
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic
Power Co. (it started with a deficit of
£15,000, capital represented by a paper
asset) :
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1905. .£13,260 10 p.c. =£11,250 £2OlO £6,403
1906.. 14,187 10 „ ~ 11,250 2937 9,340
1907.. 13,092 10 „ „ 11,250 1842 11,182
1908.. 12,636 10 ~ ~ 11,250 1386 12,568
1909.. 11,268 9 „ ~ 10,125 1143 13,711
1910.. 12,300 8 „ ~ 9,000 3300 17,011
1911.. 12,909 8 ~ .. 9,000 3909 20,920
1912.. 13,145 8 „ „ 9,000 £2469 1676 22,596
1913.. 12,048 8 „ .. 9,000 776 2272 24,868
1914.. 11,641 8 „ „ 9.000 2368 273 25,141
1915, . 10,175 7 „ .. 7,875 2287 13 25,154
1916.. 10,349 6 „ „ 6,750 1260 2339 27,493
The reserves are made up this way:—
Plant renewal and contingency
account . . .. . . .. £40,340
Formal reserves . . . . . . 2,000
Unappropriated profit . . . . 153
£42.493
Less goodwill and other paper items.. 15,000
Net reserves . . . . . . £27,493
But if some new power arrived and knocked
this out. shareholders instead of getting their
capital back plus £27,493 would be lucky to


WRITE for BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be
obtained by appointing
PERPETDAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
as
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
of
YOUR WILL.
Trust Funds now under the
Company’s control exceed
£12,500,000.
53-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICf
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Oapltal
Paid-up Oapltal..
Inooma (Cross) 1915
£250,001
194,235
95,767
146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Australian General Electric Company, Went-
worth Avenue, Sydney, Corner Queen and Little Col-
lins Streets, Melbourne, stock a special line of Type F
Form K2O Totally Enclosed Triple Pole Oil Switches
suitable for bolting to wall or pillar providing over-
load and no voltage release. These switches are
especially adaptable to mine service, and the above
Company will be pleased to forward particulars or
quotations to all who desire information on this
subject.—Advt.
Builders who insist on a roofing that is water-
proof and lasting should specify Adarnax Rooting.
Climatic changes do not affect it because in making
it superior quality fibred woollen felt is thoroughly
saturated with pure mineral asphaltum. It is then
heated and a surface is deposited on it, which
makes it proof against the elements. It contains
no tar, fish-oil or resin, which are all affected by
weather changes. Therefore, it will not perish or
crumble, it is also proof against sulphuric acid
or chemical fumes, and is thus very suitable for
mine buildings for either roofing or floor covering.
Adarnax Roofing is cheaper than galvanised-iron,
costs less for freight, and gives better service. Send
for specifications and prices now to William Adams
and 00. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth
and Adelaide.— Advt.
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The ITardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
* * * *
There is absolutely no question about the dura-
bility and economy of Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.
Wood, if kept wet, is practically everlasting, and
there is no inner exposed metal to rust or corrode.
It works out much cheaper, too, than any other
class of pipe, so far as first cost, labor for laying
and freight charges are concerned. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited (H. 0.), 57 York-street, Sydney. Con-
tractors to all State' Governments. Factories: Lane
Cove, N.S.W., Footseray, Vic., and Port Adelaide,
S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lovvest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
In addition to making Wrought-Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footseray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 (
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 i
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: F.dwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office! 31 Budge Row,, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
get half the capital without the £27,493. For
of the capital of £112,500 no less than
£102,728 is represented by “plant, mains and
expenses of installation” ; and the value of
that lot depends upon the profit it can earn.
That the mains and other plant are well pre-
served is of course important. On this point
the directors say -
Questions are sometimes asked as to the life of
the co.’s principal asset, viz., the mains, and occa-
sionally there are opportunities of thoroughly examin-
ing these pipes. Such an opportunity occurred within
the last few weeks, when, owing to a land subsidence,
a fracture of one of our mains occurred. We are
able to show to-day the pipe, which has been down
about 27 years. There is practically no sign of
corrosion inside or out, and this is reassuring evidence
of the great longevity and value of the co.’s mains.
It is good evidence'that the mains have a
long life. But not everything that has a
long life is of value. That depends as well
upon the profitable use that can be made of
the thing. At one time it looked as if
hydraulic power was losing its grip. Deduct-
ing the expenditure for material and labor
used in lift-repair work in the last year or
two (previously the co. did not do this
work), the gross revenue for the July-
-1 >ecember period has been :
1909 ..£11,430 I 1913 ..£11,856
1910 .. 11,852 I 1914 .. 11,551
1911 .. 12,129 11915 .. 10,336
1912 .. 12,089 I 1916 .. 10,911
Meantime there has been a tremendous ex-
pansion of building in Sydney; but the co.
not only got no benefit from it, but hardly
held its old connection. During the last year
or so, however, there has been a stirring
among the dry bones, and the co. has begun
to fight for business. No doubt it will get
some ; for there are purposes for which hy-
draulic power is superior to any other offer-
ing. But there are not going to be any very
fat dividends. For one thing, the electric
power with which this co. has Jo compete is
supplied by the City Council, which is not
out after profit; and in any case the co. has
to share divided profits in excess of 10 p.c.
with the City Council.
* * * *
Vale of Clwydu Coal and Bbick Co.,
tl' e Vale of Clwydd Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
dune, 1910.. £BO2O 10 p.c. =£ 1500 £6520 £8,355
Dec., 1910.. 3505.10 „ ~ 2250 1255 9,610
June, 1911.. 2558 10 „ „ 2250 308 9,918
Dec., 1911-. 2775 10 „ ~ 2250 525 10,443
June, 1912.. 2658 10 „ „ 2250 408 10,851
Dec., 1912.. 3511 10 „ ~ 2250 1261 12,112
June, 1913.. 6364 10 „ „ 3000 3364 15,476
Assets written up and £15,000 capitnlised.
Dec., 1913.. 6429 10 p.c. = 3000 3429 18,905
June, 1914.. 6316 10 „ „ 3000 3316 22,221
Cash B&nus from special profits, £7500.
Dee., 1914.. 4414 10 p.c. = 3000 1414 23,635
June, 1915.. 3396 10 ~ „ 3000 396 24,031
Bonus, 12 J „ „ 7500 \ 1 „
Dropped out of Reserves, £1747 j 14 >' 84
Dec., 1915.. 2858 10 p.c. = 3000 14,642
June, 1916.. 2917 10 „ „ 3000 14,559
Written off renewals reserve, £1570 12,989
Dee., 1916.. 2634 5 p.c. = 3000 12,623
Owing no doubt to the strike, coal sales
brought in less than usual: December, 1915,
£17,357; June, ’l6, £18,574 ; December, T 6,
£10,642. Meantime some of the outgoings
have not shrunk—taxation, for instance. The
comparatively new brickworks are giving very
little help. This is the history of that part
of the business as disclosed by the accounts:
Capital Em- Capital Em-
ployed. Profit. ployed. Profit.
•Tune, 12.. £7,334 £76.0 | Dec., T 4. . £12,000 £BB2
Dec., 12.. 11,073 944 [ June, ’15.. 12,000 995
•June, 13.. 11,780 592 | Dec., ’15.. 12,436 217
Dec., ’13.. 12,096 320 | June, ’16.. 11,973 437
June, ’14.. 12,500 215 | Dec., T 6.. 11,984 375
Evidently that is net profit; and it is poor
considering the construction boom we have
been passing through. But the co. has had a
little gold-mine in its colliery since the Lith-
gow properties formed an association to
handle their output and prevent undercut-
ting. Five years’ history is partly shown in
this comparison:—
Dec., ’ll. Dec., ’l5. June, 'l6. Dec., ’l6.
Liquid assets. . £19,957 £22,850 £23,132 £18,870
Liabilities .. 1,749 1,762 1,986 1,922
Surplus ..£18,208 £21,088 £21,146 £16,948
Turn from that to the first table and see
what the shareholders have got by way of
dividends and bonuses; then remember that
the co. has been constructing brickworks at
a cost of over £12,000, and that no capital
has been got in from outside in recent
years, and you can form a pretty fair
lc lea of the sort of property the Vale
of Clwydd has been. But what it is
going to be is a different matter. The rail-
Vays are a big customer of these Western
mines, and the Government is now opening
up the first of its own coal-mines at Lith-
gow. Further, the Commissioners are not
likely to be allowed to lose sight of these
State coal supplies, for they were a hobby
of Cann’s, and Cann is now a Railway Com-
missioner.
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1909. . £4llO 10 p.c. = £3740 £370 £28,348
Dec., 1909.. 4937 12$ „ „ 4683 254 28,602
Premiums on new shares 19 28,621
June, 1910.. 4687 12$ p.c.= 4687 28,621
Premiums on new shares 3095 31,716
Dec., 1910.. 5858 12$ p.c.= 4859 999 32,715
Premiums on new shares 12 32,727
June, 1911.. 6081 124 p.c.= 4881 1200 33,927
Dec., 1911.. 5981 124 „ „ 4881 1100 35,027
June, 1912.. 6024 12$ „ „ 4882 1142 36,169
Dec., 1912.. 6468 12$ „,, 5410 1058 37,227
Premiums on new shares 2915 40,142
June, 1913.. 6972 12$ p.e.= 6216 756 40,898
Dec.. 1913.. 8766 12$ „ „ 6571 2195 43,093
June, 1914.. 7531 12$ „ „ 6640 891 43.984
Dec., 1914.. 5198 10 „ „ 5312 43,870
June, 1915.. 6594 10 „ „ 5518 1076 44,946
Dec., 1915.. 7096 10 „,, 5625 1471 46,417
June, 1916. . 6946 10 „ „ 5"96 604 4“ o‘>B
Dec., 1916.. 7000 10 „ „ 5625 1375 48,413
Tins eo. works wholly on its own funds; its
total liabilities on December 31 were only
£2lOO. Hence the higher interest which can
now be got for loans is all to the good of
shareholders. On the other hand high in-
terest means generally low value for pledges
and other securities; though thus far,
owing to special circumstances, there has
probably been no shrinkage. Later on, how-
ever, there will be; and then it will depend
on what the management has been whether
there will be losses on realisation. That
is the danger which confronts'not only this
co. but every trading concern with a large
stock secured at war prices; and the co.
which puts aside substantial sums out of
the present profits to cover contingencies is
the one that is most likely to feel comfort-
able in the future. Unfortunately one can’t
tell from published accounts which are the
wise and which the foolish cos., because con-
tingency accounts are very rarely disclosed.
What one can say, so far as this" co. is con-
cerned, is that it has had nearly 35 years’
experience, and maintained its 10 p.c. divi-
dends even in the black years of the early
’DO’s. Later on, in 1899, it had to drop
them to 7-J p.c., but they were back to 10
p.c. in 1903. As the co. has added £22,000
to its visible reserves during the past 10
years, and as most of this money is used in
actual trading, only about £7OOO having
gone into freehold additions, it is in a better
position now to maintain the dividend.
Certainly the capital has been increased, and
it isn’t easy to earn 10 p.c. on new capital;
but not only have the reserves grown abso-
lutely, but also in proportion to capital they
are now greater than they were in 1903.
* * * *
For years past the English-owned Mount
Boppy, Canbelego, has been the most im-
portant gold-mine in N. S. Wales. To the
end of 1915 the Records show that £1,526,766
had been produced from 849,421 tons ore.
During 1915 costs averaged 225. 5d., and the
extraction, after elaborate treatment of tail-
ings and slimes, was barely 305., and the
dividend was only Is. per share on ordinaries
and 10 p.c. on prefs. Since then costs of all
kinds have been rising. The higher quota-
tions for cyanide* to a concern that uses a
large quantity in the treatment of tailings
and slimes at a narrow margin of profit, were
particularly trying; and explosives have been
dear and sometimes very scarce. Mount
Boppy carries 121,000 ordinary and 30,000
pref. shares, and the modest capital of
£151,000 has been returned many times over.
In its palmy days the co. paid a pretty con-
stant 40 p.c. per annum. A feature of the
mine is the large quantity of ore that has
been discovered in lateral development, so
the close-down isn’t permanent.
* *■ * *
The 12-year-old Cope’s Creek Central lias
had one of its sick half-years. The sluicing
plant these days has to be fed with a lot
of money to keep it jigging, and costs ran
this way : No. 1, ll.Sd. per cub. yd.; No. 2,
10.15 d.; No. 3,14.9 d. Floods, certainly,
were in part responsible. The half-year
showed £4O net to the bad; but by closer
boring and dodging poor places the co. ex-
pects (as usual) to do better in the future.
* * * *
A scheme of development has been decided
on by Bodangora (N.S.W.). Mitchell’s
Creek shaft and the Horseshoe shaft on
Dick’s reef are to be sunk deeper. For the
six months to the end of November 4619
tons, nearly all from Dick’s reef, gave a net
profit of £3121, or about 13s. per ton. One
sixpenny (£1250) was paid during the term.
The gross value obtained from the 4619 tons
was £13,005. averaging over 565. Reserves
are estimated at 7258 tons below No. 6
level, worth 625. 6d. per ton, and the battery
should recover 50s. There are also 2060
tons above No. 6 level valued at 405., and
at Mitchell’s Creek shaft the ore developed
above the 100 ft. level is estimated at 1500
tons, worth 525. The south drive at the
100 ft. level is in 435 ft., and the face has
been showing 13in. of stone, valued at 80s.
But there are many blanks, and just before
getting this patch of good stone 10ft. of very
poor ground was passed through.
* * • # *
Broken Hill Prop., which must be coining
money, like the others, out of its silver, lead
and zinc, has nevertheless had to pass a divi-
dend. The accounts to be published pre-
sently will show that the iron and steel
works are wolfing money; and the financial
results are falling far short of estimates.
Places are extra-good; materials are all
right; but. costs are said to be miles ahead
of the estimates based on U.S. experience.
There ought to be a plain statement on this
subject, backed by figures. On the question
of Australian labor costs compared with the
labor costs of foreign competitors we have
had nothing but vague and generally most
biassed moans and shrieks. We ought to
have figures to show us exactly where we
are.
* * * *
“Olio”: Before the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment considers putting up works at La-
trobe for the production of shale oil, why not
take into account the possibilities in N. S.
ales, where the largest oil shale deposits
exist and plants are already erected and
have been worked or are working? The
deal which the Speck’s House of Dodder and
Drift turned down was projected on the
recommenqation of Wade, Commonwealth oil
expert. He may be a fine geologist, but that
does not necessarily make him an expert in
getting shale or refining oil. The way the
figures of expected production were set out
was not such as to impress anyone
acquainted with the details of this industry.
Why the Commonwealth Government, or
the Speck Government for that matter,
should go nosing round for information and
reports from anyone but actual experts in
the business would be hard to understand
if the Australian public had not already
got accustomed to that sort of thing. The
Bulletin's suggestion (8/2/’l7) is to
dll in George Georgeson, of the Metal
Exchange, on the ground that his experience
with the Commonwealth Oil Corporation
should not be wasted. It is pertinent to
ask what qualifications he has. When he
was appointed secretary to the Exchange
some papers gurgled about his “wide experi-
ence m mining,” but did he know anything
of mining when he came from Ireland to
the C-0.C.? And was his job in the 0.0 O.
a technical one requiring knowledge of oil-
distillation and refining, or was it as a
salesman that he moved and had his being?
These questions should be answered if there
really is any intention of emploving this
man, who. anyhow, has his Metal Exchange
job to look after.
* * * *
Two old Victorian fields which have done
nothing for the last 20 or 30 years are now
buzzing again. They have been roused by
the call for antimony for munitions. Cloii-
binane, near Kilmore, which closed down 25
years ago, because go much antimony turned
up that the amalgamation of the gold was
prevented, is now being reopened by the
Clonbinane Co., mostly financed in Mel-
bourne. Antimony is the main objective,
with the gold as a sideline. A concentration
plant has been installed on the site of the
Apollo, along the line of the old Golden
Dyke. About 6000 tons are already out,
worth loz. gold and 17 per cent, antimony,
and a prospecting cut across the dyke
has located six lodes carrying gold and
antimony within 250 ft. of the surface. At
Costerfield, near. Heathcote, the old anti-
mony and gold mines are again working, and
during the last 12 months produced 12,382
tons of ore which yielded 3300 tons of con-
centrates. Some 300 men are already
employed and £60.000 in wages were paid
during the year. The concentrates were sent
to the St. Helens Smelting and Refining Co.,
England.
* * * *
Cliiltern (Vic.) is a sick field these days,
but it is claimed for its one still-alive mine,
the Cliiltern Valley, that it showed the way
to the world in using electric power for
haulage underground. They use a 6VIO h.p.
motor on a 16in.-gauge track, and it hauls
50 or 60 trucks and sometimes as many as
100, each holding over j-ton of dirt.
Before they shifted the plant further down
the lead some of the stuff used to be hauled
as much as two miles. They have already
worked down the lead about half a dozen
miles, and reckon to keep on going till they
reach the Murray or the sea or some other
obstruction.
• * » •
Attempts are being made to bring Pad-
dington, near Broad Arrow (W.A.), back
to life. The township once had two brew-
eries, six pubs, several stores and a mayor;
now all that remains are a few weather-
beaten lean-tos tenanted by goats. Several
shows were worked in the neighborhood, the
biggest of which was the Paddington Con-
sols, owned by the London and Globe Cor-
poration. The. show, however, did not come
up to. expectations, and finally went under.
Big piles of residues are dumped on the sur-
face of this derelict, and a syndicate is erect-
ing a plant to try to extract whatever gold
there is in them. Other parties are busy
testing adjacent has-beens.
* * * *
Ivalgurli (W.A.) doesn’t expect to last
much longer. Last year it won over £50,000
less than in 1915, and this year will pro-
bably earn a good deal less. The mining
position is still shaky, and is certain to go
from bad to worse. The balance-sheet
shows a surplus of assets over liabilities
equal to 10s. per share, which will be pro-
bably held and distributed among share-
holders when the end comes. This, according
to official estimates, should be within two
years. It may come much sooner than that,
as the. Board has decided to stop the moment
operations become unprofitable.
From an old mining man at Westonia: —
Edna May’s last half-yearly report states that the
amount of stoping done in the various parts of the
mine can be ascertained “by 'a perusal of the longi-
tudinal section enclosed.” No such section, how-
ever, is attached to the report that reached me. A
poor co. might plead economy, but that plea cannot
be advanced by one distributing 365. per share per
annum in dividends. It is time cos. were com-
pelled to publish sections showing their ore reserves,
compiled by qualified surveyors. Under present condi-
tions a Westralian estimate in nine cases out of 10
is only an expression of opinion.
A lot of misstatements have been made concerning
Stuckey’s cementing process, which has proved the
cheapest and most successful method of shaft sink-
ing in heavy water. Scoffers have alleged that the
Deeps never had the water pressure Edna May has;
while Deeps supporters claim that Stuckey’s method
could be used just as effectively in stoping
as in shaft-sinking. Undoubtedly the process is all
right in sinking; but the cost would be quite pro-
hibitive in stoping; and the danger of collapse and
disaster would be very great where large faces were
secured in this way.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 3J^.)


Charles
Vintage 1906
CBfflMW
NE PLUS ULTPfI
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
tKosie
ALLAN &. CO,
prr. ltd.
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED,
Pftee 2-/, posted 27 1
Norwegian Cradle Song—
Meditation • » Morel
A Resolve « * Kotlar
Question - » Koilat
Contemplation - * Kotlar
Moorish Danse ® Eugene Blon
M-LAN'S, 261 Coiling, MelbTj
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (a CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
1906.
SINCE
1679. since 1679.
AIG » HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 12, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
A new verbal disease is on the lips of the
community—“l couldn’t say,” sometimes
varied with “I couldn’t tell you.” Replies
to the cross-examiners in the Howell Price
case are 50 per cent. “I couldn’t say,”
instead of “I don’t know,” or “I’m not cer-
tain.” The other day an elderly priest, a
passenger by a suburban train, dashed back
to his compartment just after he bad left it
and asked anxiously of a group of women,
‘‘Did you notice who took my overcoat? I
left it on the back of this seat.” One of the
women replied, “I couldn’t tell you.” The
old. gentleman’s face took on an amazed
expression. He stepped on to the platform
remarking to a friend: “But that’s a bold
one!” He clearly thought the woman knew
who took the coat, but wasn’t going
to tell. Although the shibboleth is not
ungrammatical it doesn’t express the mean-
ing intended. There must be a phrase-genn
—a very infectious microbe with which the
commonest book-worm would scorn to
acknowledge relationship.
The head of the Antills died at Jarvis-
held, near Picton, last week —an old lady
of 86. The Antills are a connecting link
with the Macquarie era. The Major who
founded the Australian family came in the
suite of Macquarie as an officer of the 73rd
Regiment. Jarvisfield, his grant at “Stone-
quarry,” subsequently Picton, he named after
a Macquarie estate in Scotland, and it was
there the old lady died. The eldest son
now owns Jarvisfield; the second son is
Brigadier-General Antill, on active service.
The wife of Brigadier-General 11. B. Las-
setter is a daughter, and G. F. Antill,
of the Commercial Bank, Warren, is the
youngest son. The Antills of old had a share
in the American War and in most other
oubles that have had gunpowder in them.
Captain Hollis, Marine Superintendent of
lie Commonwealth Dominion Line, must be
'an anxious man these days. His wife and
two children—the latter infants (one in
arms) —were on the Port Adelaide when she
was torpedoed a week or more ago off the
Irish Coast. Cables say no lives were lost,
but crew and passengers were in boats for
some time in the bitter weather. The Hollis
trio were cn route for Sydney, and lost
everything in the way of valuables and per-
sonal effects. Captain Hollis had been
commander of the Port Lincoln (late Maka-
rene), which was mined in the English
Channel.
The first notable score in the contest
between the Williamson people and the
Taits has been made by “the Firm,” which
has secured Marie Tempest and Cyril Maude.
When the Taits took the field there was a
rumor, which seemed authentic, that they
would give us some of the better-class Eng-
lish comedies, dozens of which have been
put on of recent years but have not reached
this backwater. There have been unmistak-
able signs of late that “crook” melodramas
and farces acted through the nose are giving
playgoers the tired feeling. To turn
to English drama was therefore a good move,
and, if time has not withered them and they
bring the stuff with which they scored their
chief English successes, Marie Tempest and
Cyril Maude should do something to raise
the standard of theatrical fare in this
country.
Maoriland and Brisbane trippers, cn route
to the Cold Country, have had a very jumpy
time of it over the passport restrictions.
Isabel Moffat, of the northern city, had her
precious booklet taken away from her by
one official and thrust back upon her by
another until she was giddy. But finally she
got it for keeps, and departed to sample the
various new perils of the seas. Mrs. Robertson,
of Toowoomba, promptly cancelled her berth,
and will remain here, hoping that her
General may get a trip over to display his
new decorations.
Recently Miss Joan Newton, who for
years has been secretary to the Home Mis-
sion Society, surprised her friends by doing
such an ordinary thing as marrying Ser-
geant George E. Hall, who has since left to
do his bit at the Front. One day last week
Mrs. Hall entertained a number of her
friends in the dreary Chapter House before
leaving for England. Here the cup that queers
the complexion was drunk to the accom-
paniment of farewell speeches, and the little
dark-eyed hostess remarked that so worried
had she been in case she did not get away
after all, that she wouldn’t feel quite liappj
until she was steaming out of the harbor—
even though the sea at the other end may
swarm with submarines.
Another passenger by a recent outward-
bounder, Mrs. Denison, wife of Commander
Denison, was kept on tenterhooks over her
passport until the last moment. For her last
few weeks in Sydney Mrs. Denison has been
the guest of Mrs. Edmund Playfair, who gave
her a farewell tea at the Australia on
Friday afternoon.
A Military Cross has been Avon by Dj*.
Weston in France. He may be remem-
bered as an American who became natural-
ised in Australia directly be learnt the
news of the sinking of the Lusitania, and
soon afterwards enlisted. He married a
Miss Cosgrove—a sister of Mrs. Arthur
Joavies and Mrs. Jack Toohey.
Mother can never tell. The young (and
unmarried) fire-eater Avlio has just been
elected to the Assembly by the I.W.W. vote
at Broken Hill wears the front name of
Percy. It always sounds like buttered
scones. Yet this Percy’s immediate object
in life is to burst open the prison door and
let all poor I.W.W. incendiary martyrs out.
His other name is Brookfield; and that
sounds like the Young Lady’s Journal,
too. Perhaps he has been goaded to it.
The squad of 20 English women-carpen-
ters who went to France the other Aveek
to build huts for the soldiers learnt their
trade in Surrey. They Avere apt pupils and
the contractor reckoned they would be
skilled tradeswomen in a feAV months. The
work they have to do is rough joinery, and
consists chiefly of nailing boards to battens
or crosspieces. The h~ts are the portable
sleeping ones which can be taken to pieces
and remade very rapidly. The women first
learnt to make all sections, sides, roofs and
floors, their forewoman being a neat little
person from Maoriland who arrived with
her reservist husband at the beginning of
the Avar. In the second week of their train-
ing they learnt how to bore holes for the
bolts which join the sections, and later do
the wood-splitting and sawing. No woman
mistook her thumb for the nail after the
first time.
Dr. N. W. Markwell, medical officer at
Thursday Island, and his family were cooling
off in Sydney last Aveek before venturing fur-
ther south. The family is in the fledgling
stage yet, but the latest addition has nothing
to hlame its tropical origin for. After enjoy-
ing a few Aveeks’ shiver by the Yarra, the
party will return to its habitat near the
Line for another grill.
Professor Gil Murray, the Australian-born
Oxford don and brother of his Ex. Hubert,
of Papua, can’t get a taste when he goes
home to see mother. Rosalind, Countess of
Carlisle, whose daughter he married, sits
verv high on the water-waggon, and in
November she had a large hole dug near-
Castle Howard and the contents of her
wine cellars poured into it. The cellars had
been sealed for 30 years, and contained some
choice stuff; but the 1500 bottles were just
splashed into the pit and the earth thrown
over the glorious puddle. The . wine would
have been most acceptable in military hos-
pitals, but Rosalind would rather have gone
out scrubbing by the day than “poison” Eng-
land’s gallant sons.
Major Jack Massie, son of Hugh and
grandson of fine old Tom Dibbs, writes from
the trenches that “the conditions in France
are immeasurably superior to those of
Gallipoli,” in spite of the fact that “you
have to dip your socks in Avhale-oil to keep
them from freezing as hard as boards.” The
weather makes him thoroughly appreciate a
big fur rug that Dad recently mailed him;
and as for the noble Christmas cheque for-
warded by grandfather—well, Jack’s ci'OAvd
knows something about that!
The rug reminds me of the remark of
another fine young Sydneysider, Emra
Burkett, who when the war started avrs
doing a curate’s job in the NeAvcastle dis-
trict. He soon went off in an ordinary Bill-
jim’s khaki. Later they made a chaplain of
him. “The principal difference betAveen the
two jobs,” he wrote in the freezing weather,
“is that the chaplain gets an extra blanket.”
If the desperate mothers don’t want them.
Australia does. Two girl-babies were found
last week. One was left on the doorstep
of a Si dney hospital by a Avoman Avho rang
the bell and then ran for her reputation.
The other poor mite was evidently flung
from a country train, and, of course, killed.
Under our terrifying system, the police
are as busy trying to find the parent of the
one child as the murderer of the other.
Why can’t the State take a lesson from
clear-eyed France and quietly Avelcome the
young human asset? It is regrettable that
every baby can’t have a cot and a comfort-
able home; but if it is to be a choice betAveen
the railway line and the kindly door-
step, for goodness sake let us provide more
doorsteps. Melbourne once found an Angli-
can archbishop on an English doorstep.
A man can be pulled up and heavily
fined for working a horse with a sore back ;
but the Law doesn’t make the slightest move
when an obviously careless or incompetent
mother takes a child shaken with whooping-
cough to a picture-show. You meet her pretty
regularly in the suburbs. It may be her
own, or some confiding friend may have
left it in her charge as sick nurse while
she has had an evening off to buy a hat.
The concentrated scorn of an indignant and
distracted audience occasionally drives her
out and home; but a large methodical
policeman should first take her name and
address for three months’ compulsory train-
ing in the State School of Hygiene—the
institution that doesn’t exist yet, but should.
The latest matrimonial advt.: —-
Gent like correspond Protestant Lady, bom sth
September, 1888, no other date. “Zodiac,” P.O.
More of the horrors of war! In these days
I can’t imagine any marriageable Gertie
cutting out all eligible mankind that doesn’t
happen to have been born inside one small
square of one year’s calendar.
From a friend in the trade: —
The “shiny taffeta silk” which you recently
praised for its “steady wear and good behaviour
in not ‘ragging’ ” isn’t really a patch on the
genuine thing. Taffeta splits sooner than tussore
or shantung, because the taffeta is “loaded” —that’s
what makes it so beautiful and shiny—and when
the adulteration drops out there is only a skeleton
of silk to take the wear and tear of being sat on.
The test is to burn a piece of each. The tussore
will “boil up” like burned wool into a shapeless
mass; but the burned taffeta w ill appear as a neat
black framework, which is the loading of metal
remaining after the silk has gone up in smoke.
The truly remarkable thing is that the inferior
article invariably brings a better price than the
pure goods.
Tlie death of Mrs. Michael Studholme re-
moves one of the best-known women of
South Maoriland, where she settled with her
husband—the first white man in Waimate —
in the uncomfy days of pioneering. Before
that her name was Channon and England
her home. An only sister married .Tames,
one of the gifted Moorhouse men. Of Mrs.
Studliolme’s six sons only three survive her.
One, Carlisle, passed out in Melbourne last
gala week in his early racing career.
Charities and church claimed the greater
part of his fine old mother’s attention for
more than half a century.
There was an evening wedding at St.
Philip’s last week, when Mabel Bowman, of
Orange, made the usual rash promises to
Reginald Clive Treweek, also of Orange.
The bride was a- picture in soft white
ninon and taffeta, with the usual veil and
diamond trimmings. Dorothy Glasson, in
cream taffeta, was the bridesmaid. Recep-
tion at Petty’s.
Eileen Ryan, of Hiawatha, Bondi, was
married on a recent Thursday to Leslie
McClelland, of Sydney. The ceremony was
performed in the Mary Immaculate Church,
Waverley. The bridal frock was of white
taffeta, trimmed with pearls, and the veil
was arranged with cap effect and the usual
blossoms. The two maids were Queenie
Ryan and Alma Meacle, gowned in blush
pink topped with black tulle hats carrying
long black velvet streamers.
“Midge” Giles, who had got as far as
Melbourne on her way -to marry Jack Chis-
holm (on active service in foreign parts),
must be an exasperated bride-elect at tins
date. A pretty trousseau packed, a senti-
mental bloke waiting, and a passage taken,
and then comes this verboten thing: women
and children not accepted as passengers.
Mrs. George Vivers had fixed her departure
for March 15. Now she is amongst the
blocked. Her husband (Dr. George) enlisted
as a private when he got to Blighty, but in
four months had his commission in the
swanky Blues.
Miss Dorothy Wilson was married to Cap-
tain Charles Lindburgh, of Hongkong, at St.
Philip’s Church on Saturday afternoon —a
very quiet affair.: The nice-looking bride
was in an ivory-tinted cloth coat and skirt
and a smart white French sailor-hat with
the modish high crown. Elsie Martin was
bridesmaid, and wore white relieved by a
pink hat and posy. Reception at the Went-
worth.
Lion-hunters at the Hydro, Medlow, have
shot down a fine bit of game. They have
discovered “Peter,” the author of “Trench
Yarns,” alias Captain Hudson, who in com-
pany with Captain Dawson is recuperating
after severe wounds received in France.
Major J. S. Anderson, M.C., whose family
keep the home fires burning at Armidale.
has captured in London Molly McArthur, of
Stanhope Gardens, S.W. The bride-to-be is
pretty and clever and a daughter of the
McArthur who was for a time Liberal Whip
in the House of Commons. Mrs. Leonard
Dangar. is a sister of the happy man.
Mrs. Robert Chadwick, widow of a tim-
ber magnate, had booked by the last mail-
boat to join her family on the other side.
Then Defence Department’s ordei’S stopped
the journey. But in the case of her step-
grand-daughter, Miss Osborne, who was
to accompany her, the ticket was not can-
celled ; the Department couldn’t be adamant
in her case, for waiting in L-ondon is a
bridegroom who is attached to the Admi-
ralty. And tucked into her luggage is a
cheery legacy of some hundreds per year
left her by her grandfather.
Mrs. Peter Rabett and her daughter, Miss
Binns, have just arrived home again, after
sampling war-work in London. Miss Binns
is showing our earls what a munition hail-
crop looks like, and, as the mode is becom-
ing enough, we may expect an outbreak of
it within a few days.
A small comfort in the shape of a little
son was given- to Mrs. Roger Hughes last
week. It seems but the other day that the
Hughes family rejoiced in the marriage of
eldest-son Roger to his pretty bride, who
within little more than a year of the wed-
ding is a war-widow and a mother.
Mrs. William Collins, of Nindooinbah,
Queensland, brought back her little brood
from Maoriland last week. She has been
visiting mother at Dunedin. She dropped
into a party one evening, given by Mrs. de
Burgh Persse, fellow-Queenslanders, look-
ing the last word —so to speals-r-in black
tulle, jet and pearls, the latter calculated to
breed envy and all other known vices of the
cat world. Host, hostess and guest leave for
Tasmania this week. Another Northern
visitor, bound south to Hobart, is Mrs.
Brown, who takes daughter Eileen for a
much-needed change after a strenuous
V.A.D. campaign.
A daughter of ILanbury Davies, who has
been responsible for almost as good work
with the Red Cross in Egypt as her father
has been doing here, will return to Sydney
shortly. She was looking towards London,
but that is a prohibited area for civilian
shes just now.
This comes from one of the boys:—
Thanks; but' don’t throw any more good coin
away on costly “watertight” matchboxes for use in
the trenches. We’ve found that the very best holder
for vestas is a small bottle. Even if Billjim gets
torpedoed and has to swim the Channel he is then
able to depend on his “lights” being dry should he
feel like a “fag.”
I’ve just been nibbling at the very exclu-
sive pasture of The Ladies’ Field. The
Lord High Penwiper, in giving a mention
to Sir Acland Hood, says he was once Gov-
ernor of Victoria. The tall, stoopy baronet
and his wife paid a long visit to the Earl
ILopetouns when the latter governed Vic-
toria in the early ’nineties, the ladies
being sisters. Acland Hood is now Lord St.
Andries. Perhaps it serves him right.
By the way, the same paper says that
“hospital nurses are marrying off at an
alarming rate, and it is worth while notic-
ing that the brides most in demand are not
the amateurs who have taken to the work
in the absence of social engagements of an
exciting nature, but fully-qualified nurses.”
General McCay has had a bean named
after him! It lived, twined and had its
podding under the title of the Zeppelin
Bean, but naturally had no luck under such
a name. As the General McCay its spon-
sors hope for the best—-and nine beans to
the pod.
Messages from U.S.A., where the Notes
come from, tell of the stage success of
actress Tempo Piggot, who made her Aus-
tralian hit with Harry Plimmer’s co. in
“Lovers’ Lane.” When I heard, she had a
touring job as Mrs. Ghichister in “Peg o’
My Heart” with Roscoe’s company. W. R.
Hunter, born in M.L. and staged in Sydney
—he was in “An Englishman’s Home” —
plays Aleric in thq same crowd.
The old-time Brown family I wrote about
the other day. in connection with the death
of the wife of the Parramatta doctor, seems
to be next door to immortal. That para-
graph has brought me the information that
of the Colstoun Browns, of whom the late
lady, was one, three are left. One, H. H.
Brown, Avas . father of the N. S. Wales
Assembly in the days when the present oldest
inhabitants of the House. Avere almost neAV-
comers. Tie is still in Sydney. Another is
Nugent Brown. He lives at Sandgate, in
Queensland, and left off being a pastoralist
many years ago. The third is Walterus
Brown; and Walterus Brown was police
magistrate in the Far Western _ country
before the discovery of Broken Hill made
things out there look different. He is camped
nowadays at placid Rooty Hill.
Talking of the Far West, that is Avhere
Grace Scobie. the most militant of all the re-
cruiting speakers, comes from. She is a
daughter of Robert, M.L.A., who settled in
Menindie a feiv years after Burke and Wills
made that their kicking-off place; and he
stayed there till the WentAvorth electorate
thought it Avas time Sydney kneAV the family
and heard a bit from father about another
Scotchman named Burras.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


; • ’ *.f |
"■ '■ ■' •:«:
I? Mil
fi;-"!%--j-:*' .'
'. » .5/
A^\o- a
4
4
OapA^
’xji **T*V*fr
* ** iW tT^
W&
“f
C^ c jM * *■
4<- VV o>
I A
v '■' -vvvH
i
4* kii «<.* V<>
w*
S&
*■ s r*^
A.
' / M
is f “C-f>-> «*£>£*•.
,VW. OLi
cJ> ~ ID^
MUiP
v& „■ r,. uJ^
■ ::
. ■
.... , ,
1 mmmm
Mi m-
ms
m
: ■ - :
;
BraS
■
■HhI SrMM Bp
- -’ • ■ ‘ '
• ."
-"^'is*
Jufete I
g ijiijiiguifiM 'is s ;
. ; * * 'V
%l|yJpP V -*
ui.
* ■ *.' ■* ?;
jtiW f - |gp^p|
L ■ P •”.'- PI ■
L
INTHL- FR°NT- H O ME.•RLeREATI 0 /^S ,
\
WEEK!
A
o o
0< fr
)MSfc*
P
rf
rr &
p
Mi'i
pu
O
c/c
C
cv
©
&iMLrvUtjL£t--
5 yj&fajLAf
AK H i
/
■i
nr
D
D
U
JU
S'HQVO'QOQMS
3970EPA0L
5> T
s: YDflfcY: 214 OASTLK&AGH\SWDNEY
507
509
cjyttrt
->T
BDimNL


Something Smart
in Felts at Farmer’s
For correct appearance and comfort in wear
Farmer's Hats are pre-eminent, and the one illus-
trated is typical of the superb values existing
throughout the department.
It is suitable for men of all ages and is obtainable
in a wide range of colors and qualities; has cut
edges; brims and 2J inches wide. Colors: Light
Grey with Black Band; Slate, Brown and Fawn.
Price, 12/6.
Better Qualities: 14/6, 15/6, 16/6, 18/6.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
PITT, MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS.
Carriage Paid to Any Part
of Australia.
ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.K. Zanetic "Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
BELLEVUE
The only Hotel
overlooking
HOTEL, the Botanical Gardens-
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNICJAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
BUCKLEY’S
UNEXAMPLED
Summer Sale
NOW ON.
RARE BARGAINS IN YOUR
EVERY REQUIREMENT.
Rain Coats
n 121. The top illustration shows one of
the newest, smartly-cut Gabardine Rain Coats,
with a new and comfortable collar to be
worn open or closed. Patch pockets and
very flared skirt, in dark Fawn. Special
value at 78/6.
Summer Sale, 72/6.
8122. The lower illustration shows
another very smart Gabardine Rain Coat,
with flared skirt caught at the waist with
side belts, inset pockets and smart, high
collar fastening- to the neck. Usually 58/6.
Summer Sale, 52/6.
lit 23. A big selection of imported heavy-
weight Assam Silk Coats, | and f lengths, all
different, but smart styles, with and without
capes, and smartly trimmed with Oriental
Silk. Usually 63/-, 59/6.
Summer Sale, 39/11.
8124. Another bargain line of really good
Tussore Silk Dust Coats, including many
different, smart styles and assorted lengths.
All are this season's models —you can’t go
wrong in ordering. Usually 39/11.
Summer Sale, 33/11.
8125. A grand bargain line of smartly-
cut and decidedly-useful Sports Coats, in a
big range of the very smartest washing
materials, including the newest color stripes.
All the most popular and fashionable styles
are represented. Usually 21/-, 29/11, 35/11
each.
Summer Sale, 12/11.
For the Most Reliable of Everything
at the LOWEST PRICES always
send to
BDCKLEY g NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ,
A few of the
Very Newest
Models
Suitable for
All Seasons
at
SALE
PRICES
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, February 12, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
i n< iulges in the real heather
walk these days. Whenever there is nothing
to open and the going’s good he takes his
stick and sets off for the horizon at a tine,
swinging stride. Last Sunday morning lie
tramped along the Esplanade, and marched
np St. Kilda-road with his eyes fixed stead-
ily ahead on the future.
Miss Macarthur Onslow, who returned
from Tasmania with little Lady Doris Black-
wood and has been the guest of the G.-G.
and his super-energetic better-half, booked
for and had a flying trip with a well-known
aviator before returning to Sydney.
Mrs. George Chirnside is in the limelight
again, and is now to be seen daily in the
company of her old pals, Lily and Alice
Fisken, going strong from morn till eve in
‘‘war work” of the most arduous and compli-
cated nature. This is right into her hands.
Her strong-willed daughter is occupying her
spare time in taking damaged Anzacs for
country .joy-rides in a new car. Percy’s
golden-haired wife is also doing her bit
valiantly—giving drag-picnics, high teas and
picture-show parties to wounded com-
patriots. The Fisken girls some time ago
attempted munition-making, but the job
proved too horrid and had to be abandoned.
Now, in addition to their other war work,
they are taking a hand in the British
Prisoners’ Relief Society.
Ex-Senator Simon Fraser and his wife
are revelling in the ocean breezes that blow
around their castle at Queenscliff. Mil
Fraser, who was 84 last birthday, preserves
the slim figure of his youth and takes a
daily four-mile walk by way of constitu-
tional. About once a week the pair trip in
the war-like Mars to Portsea, where Simon,
junior, and his young wife spend their morn-
ings teaching the two small boys (Simon and
Peter) to do nearly as well as Annette
Ivellerman.
The young globe-trotters, Mr. and Mrs.
George Green, cousins of Lord Nortlicote,
who recently landed here, and while on a
visit to Wirlgiewa were pitched out of the
Otway Falkiners’ car, are suffering a peace-
ful recovery from broken collarbone and
minor damages. Their breezy entertainers,
having arranged a trip to Rotorua, were im-
plored to go ahead with it—which they did.
Being quite recently mated, the Greens felt
they had enough conversation to go on with.
This is being passed round town as a
profound secret, so please don’t tell a soul.
Lesley Madden is going into business in
Collins-street, and will sell the most lovely
undies you ever saw. The shop will be
feahfully exclusive, and Lesley will design
everything. She is an expert needlewoman
and has found that the fascinating trifles
she hand-made for patriotic bazaars went
off like hot cakes or cold beer. That’s how
fhe got the idea. Australia Will Be There!
The vivacious Helena Rubenstein—now
Mrs. Somebody-or-other in England—is
making a thoroughly domestic visit to Aus-
tralia to see her people and show off her
two little sons, one of whom is six and the
other four. She is travelling this way via
New York and San Francisco and is due
in Melbourne in a few weeks.
The beautiful young Russian doctor who
is visiting here has quite a history. His
name is Klatchko (or some sneeze like
that) and he was for a time a prisoner of
the Huns. He was recovered in some way
during a naval set-to and was taken by
a British boat to Egypt. There he was
working in British hospitals for a while
till he was knocked over by the heat and
invalided here.
Major Rosenfield is homeward-bound
after a strenuous time in Egypt. He was
for a time the only eye-and-ear specialist
on military duty there, so he got all the
work that was going. Mrs. Rosenfield is
fluttering about town waiting for her man
and worrying about possible submarines.
She has not seen her husband for nearly
two years.
Louis L. Smith, son of the departed Dr.
£. £., is doctoring at a French military hos-
pital, and has won much professional praise.
Surgery is his specialty.
__ Long, lean and popular Stewart McArthur,
K.C., is home again in his chambers looking
over briefs. He went to England about a
year ago with his son Gordon, who is now
in the Artillery, and his daughter, Mrs. Billie
Knox, who wished to be near her soldier
husband. Back again on the home circuit, he
was welcomed back by his Melbourne Club
friends with some of the Club’s oldest port.
The Jo Clarke widow, mother of the
portly J.W.T.C., had the bad luck to break
her hip whilst summering in Tassy. The
poor lady fell out of bed one night and
groaned in anguish for hours before she
was heard. However, the doctor when he
came made a good job of it, and she is
recovering splendidly.
The Clarke sisters wailed on hearing of
the edict forbidding women sea-gadders to
lift a handbag. When one has acquired
the expensive travel habit it is hard to sit
still and keep out of the way. Sisters Roma
and Nesta had planned an exciting round
of war-time diversions in England with the
Norman Hodges pair.
Adelaide’s interjection
The Governor came back from Tasmania on
Saturday and on Monday graced the coming-of-age
anniversary luncheon of the State Bank. The guests
were mostly ex-M’s.P. who had been concerned with
the legislation which established the Bank —
amongst them A. M. Simpson, W. Copley and Alfred
Catt.
Miss Joyce Waterhouse is back from England;
which reminds me that the embargo on passports
for women and children is upsetting a good many
local plans. The wonder to most people whose
plans have not been upset is why it wasn’t imposed
months ago. War work in England is the com-
monly-pleaded excuse of trippers, but —well, I don’t
wish to be spiteful, my dear.
On Sunday the Chief Justice unveiled a Roll
of Honor, with 18G names, at Magill, which is only
a small suburb. Five sons have gone from one
family and four from each of three others, and
none of them waited for any special recruiting cam-
paign. The new campaign, by the way, got a good
start here on Tuesday night and the public shows
some faint signs of waking up. The trouble is
that it is the wrong public that is waking up.
Glenelg has embarked on a week’s carnival, with
the Red Cross, Trench Comforts and Belgian Funds
as the beneficiaries. The suburb has already proved
itself a generous supporter of patriotic funds, and,
with summer visitors to help things along, the car-
nival should boom cheerfully.
A. E. Kinnear has got the secretaryship to the
Public Service Commissioner. He started in the
Crown Lands Office in 1882 at £5O per annum, and
in 1901 was appointed secretary to the short-lived
Public Classification Board.
The northern Anglican bishopric is' to move its
headquarters from Petersburg to Gladstone, which
town is more convenient for Dr. White’s work than
the big railway centre.
At last the vexed question of the directorship of
the Botanical Gardens seems to be. settled, and the
billet goes to J. F. Bailey, of the Brisbane Gardens.
His father was the first S. Aus. Government Botanist
and planted the garden in Hackney, between the
Botanic Park and St. Peter’s College, which still
bears his name. His son was born in August, ’66,
and in ’B9 was appointed to the botanical branch of
the Queensland Agricultural Department as assistant
to his father. llis directorship of the Brisbane
Gardens dated from 1905 to 1915, when he succeeded
his father as Government Botanist in the northern
State.
Miss Hattie Knight, a bright young
writer who has contributed many smart
paragraphs to The Bulletin and has
lately been social recorder for Sydney Sun,
is to leave her job for a position of greater
importance. W. J. Leckie, member for
Benambra in the Kookaburra Parliament,
and a threatened opponent of Parker
Moloney for the Federal seat of Indi, is
feeling somewhat lonely and has induced
the little pen-woman to share his income
and solitude. The wedding is to happen in
Melbourne- in April, and every effort will
be made to keep it quiet. The organ will
be fitted with a silencer and the parson
will be shod with rubber boots.
St. _ Patrick’s Cathedral and the Oriental
were in festive rig on Wednesday last, when
Nancy Moynane—daughter of the Irish
solicitor-—changed her name to Forrest. The
young man she has promised to love and
obey comes from Bananaland and is the
son of Dr. Forrest, of Charters Towers. At
present he is stationed at the Caulfield Mili-
tary Hospital, but got a few days’ leave for
a honeymoon at Mornington.
It is quite possible that H. Y. McKay
dropped a few extra pounds into the War
Loan on behalf of a brand-new grand-
daughter, who has just arrived at Brighton,
consigned to the Sunsliiner’s only daughter,
Mrs. Clive Kidd.
Great rejoicings in the house of Willy
Robertson over the arrival of a long-hoped-
for heir. Colonel W. St. Leonards Robert-
son has a high place on the Instructional
Staff, and is in charge of the selection of
Remounts. He is the elder brother of popu-
lar Colonel “Jack” Robertson, Commandant
at Queeenseliff, whose stalwart son Donald
did so well at Pozieres. Mrs. Willy is a
sister of Lady Grey Egerton and Mrs. Ken-
neth (Muriel Cumming) ; they make a trio*
celebrated for their good looks.
The Russian-Australian Bureau of Com-
merce and Information bounded into exist-
ence last week at a big meeting in the Town
Hall. Hughes took a central position on
the platform and bestowed his blessing. Cook
bestowed his apology. Gaud-Mayor Hennessy
took the chair, and Russian Consul D’Abaza
sat at his strong right hand. Premier
Peacock wore a startling check tie and
thundered out his approval. G. H. Knibbs
looked like a young Father Christmas with
his white hair in startling contrast with his
sunbrowned face. Lieut.-Colonel Farr, who
was appointed secretary of the Bureau, sat
modestly in the_ background. He was Pay-
master-General in Egypt during the Anzacs’
stay. The committee includes a Baillieu,
Hugh V. Mcivay, aowett ana xcussxan-aauer
Myers. The visiting Russian doctor, in liis
loveliest uniform, spoke as a Russian in
Australia. He started last, just when the
whole meeting was ravenous for its lunch.
Even Hughes kept one bloodshot eye on the
clock. But the Russian had carefully learned
his piece and nothing would stop him.
Russian Consul-General D’Abaza’s father
is a Judge, now sitting on the Inter-
national Court in Egypt. D’Abaza himself
is a clever linguist who speaks English with
the precision of an orator, and he is keen
to encourage the learning of Russian in Mel-
bourne. He says that, since the war, the
teaching of English has been made compul-
sory in Russian schools. He scarcely hopes
Australia will reciprocate to a like extent,
but he has visions of general classes being
formed, and says the Consulate will encour-
age the idea to the fullest extent. Airs.
D’Abaza has been in the hands of the doctors
ever since her arrival in Melbourne. She
was ill on the journey across. The brief
glimpse Melbourneites got of the lady showed
them she is remarkably handsome.
The Praliran Red Cross works on regard-
less of the fact that these are the dog days
and Toorak is holidaying. Mrs. H. A. A.
Embling, the president, rules coolly and
methodically in dainty white .and her own
perfect complexion. She is local Mayoress
for tlie second consecutive season, her hus-
band being an energetic Worship who is
particularly keen on flowers, grassy reserves
and trees.
Over in Perth they have been indulging
in a Child’s Welfare Conference, a move-
ment initiated by the Governor’s lady before,
she became ill. Prof. Dakin, of the Uni-
versity, was one of its pushful spirits. So was
the young, shy-looking Le Couteur student
—he who carried off our Prof. Sugden’s
daughter to the altar. The Forrest lady was
also keenly interested, but her recent rushes
to and from Melbourne have taken up much
of her time. The Bungalow’s most hospit-
able gates are open now but spasmodically.
. The Ambrose Pratt family have re-
versed the general order of the dav and
have jumped from flat life to ground-level
housekeeping', and the handsome matron is
studying a cookery book in the kitchen of
a Toorak villa. They have lately been
travelling round viewing mountain and cave
scenery for the mental refreshment of the
versatile Ambrose.
The Celtic Club had a shamrock night
with Allen Doone at the King’s last week ;
and when Lesley Madden was escorted to a
seat in the front stalls the orchestra played
an Irish jig. Lesley had put a Paddy : green
fillet of beads round her hair, and with her
was Airs. Barry Thompson, with her black
locks also banded in green. Airs. Thompson
was an Irish girl before she became Aus-
tralianised, but the Irish home she was born
in was called “The Pah,” after a property
her father had in Maoriland some 80 years
ago. Allen Doone sang his swatest to the
two daughters of Erin, and they passed a
vote of confidence in his voice.
I-larrie Ireland, who has been ill so long,
caused a stir at the Theatre Royal one
night last week when she entered a box
with the Bland Holts to see Florence Rock-
well in “The House of Glass”—her first
visit to a theatre for well over three years.
The auburn-haired Harrie looked radiant;
she can manage without any support now
except a rather smart stick, and is hoping
for a complete recovery very soon and a
triumphant return to work.
Gladys Baker, a J.C.W. footlighter and
daughter of our old friend Walter Baker,
has been engaged to appear in the Alatri-
mony pantomime at an early date. Her
leading man is Lieut. Elgar W. Opie, now
learning the German Destruction Act at
Royal Park Camp.
The Overseas Club entertained the Allan
Wilkies last week, and the Hennessy dame,
as president, led the handshakes. The Gaud
Alayor came in like a hero about tea-time;
he is as cool as an iceberg among hosts of
women, and has practised ground and lofty
tea-drinking. The Peacock and Weedon
dames came along; also Airs. Hagelthorn.
who made a first appearance after her ill-
ness. Allan Wilkie and Frediswyde, etc.,
etc., gushed appreciations of Australia and
said they intended to stay here.
A Melbourne bachelor had a unique
theatre party the other night. He invited
75 children to the - pantomime, stipulating
on the invitations that the little guests should
be sent without grown-up escorts. Collecting
the youngsters by ordinary motor proved so
slow that he hired a char-a-banc and picked
up his guests by platoons. In the front seat
with the chauffeur was a huge suit-case
stuffed with boxes of chocolates. It was left
half-open to make the eyes of the children
goggle before they reached the party. The
young man achieved quite a sensation when
he entered the theatre with his family string-
ing after him, and a small, pink-frilled baby
prancing alongside. The veteran of the
party was a boy of eight. The host is
treasuring his answers to invitations. One
mite said she would be delighted to come
and see the vegetables walk. “But,” she
added, “my two front teeth is looth, and if
they fall out I can’t come. I’m trying to
hold them in.”
“The Alisleading Lady” filled the stalls
and boxes at the Theatre Royal oh Satur-
day, but the circle suffered from bald, spots.
Some Government House visitors were boxed
alongside the stage, but the - G.-G. and his
wife were not amongst them. A haughty
lady wearing grey silk and grey hair was
attended by a stray gent. help. Florence
Rockwell kept the same frock on all through
the play—through storm, rain, snow and a
motor ride. She only shed her gold brocade
dippers in order to help the plot. The dress
was very little but tulle, inset with pale
green silk and silver lace. It was trans-
parent from the waist up and from the
knees down, w hen her not-so-savage lover
took her off in the first act he bagged her
in a rug. Beatrice Holloway, making her
Australian farewell, wore an adorable cover-
ing of cinnamon-brown tulle rucked all
round. One of her house-party pals wore
peach silk, and another got into an outfit
which included blue silk stockings and gold
shoes.
The Italian Opera people are returning
to Melbourne soon, and their constant host-
ess, Mrs. Dougall, has been stocking the
larder in readiness. She entertained them
lavishly when they were here before and
knows what they like just as well as if she
kept a free restaurant.
A Japanese soldier who enlisted in the
British army in Prance has been winning
military honors. He is called Private Harry
O’Hara. Are the O’Haras in Japan as
well as in Ireland? The O’Briens have
turned up in the Mexican war that W. Wil-
son can’t settle; one of them is the prickly-
pear country’s most poreupiney leader.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Yj
Y,
vM.
y/S.
255
255
VS
S£s
m
&
t»
S 2
m
XX
m
s
i
s>
x>
85
»
5?nS
yy&
VS
>/77Z
m
Va
55
<
z
S 5
8
95
Os
s«
S 3
x»
1
X«
m
&
55
I
555
KSS
i
2
22
N
I
1
N>.
zx
2SK
i>
1
I
ZSS
8
<>
t/y
Ysi
m
%sa
§
S
m
§
z
55
%
z
LS
k
I
1
I m
V.
r
I
55
i*
W\
:<
■
'A
zs
J£C
ZS
£
<JZ
<z
X
xx
ss
*
ss
z
S 0
555
K\
XX
/
Z 55
xv
XV
w
r%.
9
%
v
r
A
l
0*
Imperial
A
WHISKY


p. ca o,
Royal Mail Steamers
for England.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
No Visitors allowed on Ship or on Wharf on Day of Sailing.
Passage Tickets are sectionally interchangeable with the Orient
Company.
First Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N Co
between Australian ports. ’
For Fares and all further particulars apply to
A. GORDON WESCHE,
Tel., City 6321. Superintendent in Australia, 63 Pitt Street.
King George IV
IW IIV M WHISKY
(r~\
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
MYALLS.
BILL: “Well, Jacky, what did the Germans
tell you?”
JACKY ( arrived hack with prisoners) : “No
fear! Not a plumy one speak English.
This lot all wild fellers.”
“Leo Lear” : H The Austins, of Barwon Park
estate, near Geelong (Vic.), have been cursed by
thousands of Australians for introducing rabbits to
this continent; but while they may have brought
over a few of the bunnies, I can lift the blame for
the original importation from their heads. A copy
of Chambers's Miscellany, published in 1847, has
recently been unearthed in Melbourne. Therein is
an article, “Li'e in the Bush,” by a lady, which
tells of the landing at Point Henry (Port Phillip)
iu 1839 of a man and woman from Tasmania, whose
luggage included cattle, horses, pigs, poultry, goats
and rabbits. They tramped 120 miles inland before
settling down, so no doubt the cottontails had the
innards of Vie. well explored before Austin landed
a consignment. Apropos of pests, as far as I know
there is no law preventing anyone landing a shipload
of tigers in the Northern scrubs to-morrow. An
Act might be passed in a hurry to meet such a case,
but after our experience of animal and vegetable
pests what we want is an absolute prohibition of
everything that grows, crawls or flies until it is
proved beyond doubt that it will be a benefit and
not a curse under our climatic conditions.
“Nymsie”: The circus strong man can
take off his hat to the venomous little black spider
with a danger signal on its back. In the kitchen
of the Express premises, at Rochester (Vic.), a
mouse was scampering about. A little later it was
seen to be in difficulties, and examination showed
that Red Spot was winding his web round and round
its body. A few moments later the hunter had, by
some marvellous system of haulage, suspended his
victim about a foot off the kitchen floor by strands of
web fixed to the table legs. For a day and a night
he kept close to his prey as though sucking its
blood in a prolonged debauch. He waved his legs
threateningly when touched with a wisp of the
house-broom ; but when the mouse was ripe we
squashed the little red terror. We were afraid lie
might attack the cow.
* * * *
“H.H.8.”: If I was to mention his
name he’d come down and tear the office up by the
roots. But he was president of the shire council,
and at a meeting one of his fellow councillors
roused his ire. Rising to his feet he shook his hand
and bellowed: “If it wasn’t for bein’ a Jay Pee
I’d punch ye in the nose, I would. To Hell wid
bein’ a Jay Pee!” ,
* * * *
“Peri Winkle”: In Northern Victoria,
where a wet season has been experienced for a won-
der, the “drake” pest is badly in evidence and
local wheat agents are annoyingly suspicious. They
have found two grains of drake to one of wheat
in some bags. And the stuff is quite useless. It
resembles a wizened barley or anaemic rye. Whence
it comes and why it comes even the longest-whis-
lcered resident can’t explain. Somebody told us that
every pest has its uses and that the best brand of
whisky was made from drake, but somehow I think
he was a Hun publicity bureau.
* * * *
“G.M.D.” : Throw out that pear-tree carted
in by “The Hum” (B. 11/1/T7) from Warren River
(W.A.) and stick this really big one in its place.
Its home is Kerrisdale, D. L. Doolette’s property on
the King Parrot (Vie.). I do not know the age of
the old warrior, but it is still strong and heart}', and
at present carrying an enormous crop of fruit. It is
52ft. high, has an average spread of branches of 43ft.
and a butt 9ft. Bin. around. Unfortunately it is of
the Jargonelle variety, its fruit rotten to" the core
when fully ripe, but very useful for . rabbit poisoning.
* * * *
“E.M.W.”: The Darling Ranges of Wes-
tralia produce a great number and variety of car-
nivorous plants. Commonest among these is one
called by the children rainbow-plant. It is a
creeper which grows to a length of about 18 inches
and has tiny sundew cups on short stems at irregular
intervals. There is only one other sundew, this
being of the ordinary flat-leaved type. A very common
fl}-catcher has a small four-petalled flower with a
hammer which springs up and imprisons the adven-
turous insect. It occurs in six or .seven forms—in color,
white, cream, pink, yellow, blue and heliotrope. The
well-known spider orchid is carnivorous. Two small
fringes close from either side on the insect, which
is then slimed and absorbed in the usual wav. At
a spot in the Darling Ranges about 20 miles from
Perth I counted on one day in January 106 different
varieties of wild flowers. This though the full
flower season occurs in October. The far southern
portion of the State contains a greater profusion of
flora, but, I believe, much less variety.
* * * ' *
“Bad Australian”: Out on the debatable
ground which forms the frontier of Bolivia and
Brazil I was starting in to entertain the local
cacique or Lord Mayor and his frowsy satellites on
methylated spirit and canned opera when I found
that I had lost or mislaid my supply of “record
ticklers.” I had just offered the best apology I
could in the circumstances and had opened another
bottle of pop, when the old cacique rose slowly ip.
his place, and solemnly draining the heel taps which
remained in three battered pannikins, took a long
pull at the newly-opened bottle, kicked a way through
the multitude of dogs and naked nippers which
always infest an Indian camp, and strode moodily
into the wilderness. Now, when a savage suddenly
rises from the festive board and strides moodily into
the wilderness or the adjacent camp-meeting of the
Sons of Temperance, it is a bad sign for the company;
but while I was busy trying to figure out the betting
on the final result, the noble red (or yellow) man
strode moodily back again, and, drawing his heavy
“Solingen” blade, nipped the points off a bunch of
cactus spines which he had garnered from the wilder-
ness hereinbefore mentioned, and handed them to me
with an interrogatory grunt. I tumbled to the scheme
at once, and, fitting one of the points in the socket,
touched the gramophone off and scored one of the
most brilliant successes of an exceptionally brilliant
career. The spine of the S. American giant cactus
is about as long and thick and nearly as hard as a
knitting-needle, and in many places is used as a
substitute for that useful instrument. This success-
ful experiment suggests that Billjim need never be
cornered for a “tickler” for his phonograph as long
as there is a “bony” bream or “yellow belly” in the
“crik,” a porcupine in the nearest ant-bed, or any
other hard thorny circumstance of suitable dimen-
sions within cooee.
A FEW DEPARTURE IN SPORT.
JIMMY: "L-l-l-l-look 'ere, w-w-w-w-when th’ ’ell are yer g-g-g-g-goin ’ ter p-p-p-p-part up
that there f-f-f-f-fiver yer owe me?”
DANIEL : "G-g-g-g-arn! I d-d-d-d-don't owe yer no f-f-f-f-fiver.”
JIMMY: “Y-y-y-y-yes, yer do.”
DANIEL: '"W-w-w-w-well, I’ll t-t-t-t-tell yer what I’ll d d-d-d-do. I'll st-t-t-t-t-tutter yer
fer a t-t-t-t-tenner, an’ th’ l-l-l-l-loser sh-sh-sh-sh-shouts.”
“F.W.W.” : The inland N. S. Wales cocky
has not been wildly enthusiastic over the Agricul-
tural Department’s scheme of building silos for him;
and there’s no reason why he should. Cocky’s best
plan of conserving ensilage is the “pit” system,
which costs nothing but a few days’ hard yakker.
Any cocky with a team of horses, plough and a
“tumbling tommy” can root out in a week a hole
capable of storing a couple of hundred tons of
■ensilage and 40 acres of a green wheat crop will
fill it. The needful pressure can be got by drawing
the waggon through the pit and by building up the
greenstuff to about 10ft. above the surface and
piling on top the earth he has scraped out. The
weight of the earth will press down the contents of
the pit to land level.
“J.M.H.”: Talking about balolo. One of
the most interesting sights of the Pacific is the
crowd of canoes, boats and launches gathered off
Toko, near Levuka, filled with a laughing, chatter-
ing crowd of all colors collecting the fish; the sea
around alive with barracoota and others gathered for
the, feast. “Joe Bagley” (B. 21/12/T6) says the
fish “remains up until sundown” ; actually it rises
before grey dawn and disappears at sunrise or imme-
diately after. The balolo flotilla leaves Levuka
before 4 a.m. and returns about 7. The long,
wriggling, worm-like objects, no bigger than the
lead of-an ordinary pencil, emerge in a thick mass
‘from holes in the coral reef, but ' only at a few
well-known spots, and are scooped out. of the sea
with small dippers like butterfly nets, made of
muslin or mosquito netting. The writhing mass of
green and brown worms in the bucket or tub is far
from appetising in appearance, but cooked in cocoa-
nut milk (vaka viti) or fried in batter (vaka papa-
hoji) they are excellent, with a haunting flavor of
the reef.
“F.W.W.” : Re “Pick's” (B. IS/IT7) re-
marks on loss of horses from eating musty ensilage.
Mustiness is merely bacteria which sets up -bowel
irritation, very- often with fatal results. I knew an
old Riverina squatter who lost a thousand pounds’
worth of rams before he jerried that musty ensilage
was the murderer. Properly-made ensilage is never
musty, and it doesn’t matter how wet the green
crop is when put in. The whole secret of ensilage-
making is to keep moving, pack the material well
and leave the atmosphere outside, not inside, the
silo. Incidentally, after the ensilage is made my
experience is that it is not advisable to feed horses
on it if any other tucker is handy.
“Agricola”: The cause of the death of
“Pick’s” horses (B. 18/I/’l7) was mould poisoning,
and is a subject of immense importance. Pro. L.
11. Pammel, of lowa (U.S.A.), says that horses there
have died in numbers through eating affected corn,
and Dr. Cameron, of the Vic. Agric. Dept., investi-
gated the subject in 1906 when horses were dying
in the Malice.. He found that spinal meningitis is
closely related to the forage poisoning. A toxin is
caused through the activity of the fungi and im-
paction paralysis, or costal disease, (which has been
so widespread and little understood), is produced.
Native grasses seem to be extremely liable to the
attacks of moulds and the low content of lime and
phosphoric acid in many areas seems to be a pre-
disposing cause. Pammel, in Feb., 1915, said that
the maize fungus was fusarium.
PROOF POSITIVE.
HARRY: “ Wotto, Fred! D’jever ’ear
whether that kid of yours gotter
France?"
FRED ( derisively ): “Gotter France! Didn’
yer get noose of the great peace offer?"
“Lord Toothpick” : Billji in remains calm
and unmoved in the whirl of London. One of Eng-
land's noblest young sons was driving through Picca-
dilly when Bill lurched on to the roadway, holding
up his hand as a signal to stop. When the carriage
came to a standstill Billjim produced a match, and
striking it on the wheel lit up a bumper. “Thank
you, old sport,” he said heartily, and went on his
way to the nearest place of worship.
(Continued, on page 24J
AGAIN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve gone upon the land and tried all sorts of things
to grow ;
I’ve lived upon my wealth until the hole began to
show ;
I’ve had a fly at many things. I’ve bartered, bought
and sold,
But now I'm baclc with pick in hand upon a bit of
gold.
I’m boss and I am employee, no strikes disturb my
rest,
And I can graft or I can loaf just as it suits me
best;
Let others talk of city life, of trams and pubs and
noise,
I wouldn’t swap, my prospects now for all their
city joys ;
Of idle days and genteel ways I’ve more than had
my fill—-
It’s good to be at work again with hammer, gad
and drill.
Bright hopes go ringing through my brain as ring
the hammer blows,
And every bit I dolly up a half-ounce prospect
shows;
Yet I am only on the cap, the rubbish on the
crown—
Lord knows what sort of stuff will be a few feet
further down !
Just twenty yards along the line Mick Geelan got
his dab,
And fifty ounces was the kind of ore that Michael
had ;
And further south two hundred feet, down where the
gully runs,
Light hundred ounces was the yield from Rowe’s one
hundred tons.
In every dish the tail of gold gives me the old-time
thrill—
It’s good to be at work again with hammer, gad
and drill.
What matter rough and blistered hands and sun-
burned arms that ache,
When I can dream the miners’ dream about the
“punch” I’ll make!
What matters if it duffers out! For other spots I’ll
try,
And when I strike bonanza Stuff just think of all
I’ll buy!
Again I’ll see the stampers fall upon my golden ore,
And bet upon the yield ’twill give, as in the days of
yore;
Again I’ll hear their friendly voice, and swear I
hear them say:
It s two-ounce tack, it’s two-ounce tack,” in chorus
all the day.
The work is hard, and I am soft from easy times,
but still
It’s good to be at work again with hammer, gad
and drill.
N.S.-tf ,
QUIDAM.


DAVID JONES’
RELIABLE BOOTS
at Moderate Prices.
jS&6's>
\c
Box Calf Boots,
18/6 Pair.
In black only, very soft and
pliable, medium welted soles,
round toes. In all men’s sizes.
18/6 pair.
Box Calf Boots,
21/- Pair.
In black or tan, heavy welted
soles, medium and full round
toes; three fittings to every
size. 21/- pair.
Box Calf Boots,
21/- Pair.
In black and tan, both Derby
and Balmoral shapes, medium
round toes, welted soles; two
fittings to each size. 21/- pair.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp
G.P.O
SYDNEY.
THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
Dr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1916.
Cr.
Capital paid-up
I loservp Fund . .
Notes in circulation
Deposits and other
bilities.
Profit and Loss..
.. £400,000 0 0
45,000 0 0
5,651 40 0
lia-
.. 2,424.548 a 4
17,139 a 0
£2,592,333 16 4
By Coin, Bullion and Cash
balances £236,926 12 4
„ Australian notes . . 188,822 0 0
~ Imperial War Bonn and
New South Wales In-
scribed Stock . . . . 146,750 0 0
„ Bills discounted and
other debts due to the
Bank . . . . • • 1,826,094 19 5
„ Bank premises and fur-
niture . . • • • • 193,740 4 7
£2.592,333 16 4
PROFIT AND L 055.
To Dividend for half-year at
the rate of 4 per cent, per
annum, out of the half-
year's profits .. •• £B,C"O 0
„ Transferred to Reserve
Fund : • • 5,000 0
„ Transferred to bank pre-
mises account . . . . 1,000 0
„ Balance of Undivided Pro-
fits carried to next half-
year .. .. .. . . 3,139 3
0
0
0
0
£17,139 3 0
By Balance of Undivided Pro-
fits at 30th June, 1910 . . £2,909 7 1
„ Profits for half-year ended
31st December, 1916 .. 14,229 15 11
£17,139 3 0
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at 31st December,
1916 £50,000 0 0
■ £50,000 0 0
Bv Balance at l>Oth June. 11)10 £45,000 0 0
„ Transferred from Profit
and Loss .. .. . . 5,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0
A. J. GOULD, Chairman.
We hereby certify that we have examined the securities, compared the balances and
counted the cash in The City Bank of Sydney, at head office, and examined the returns
from the branches as at 31st December, 1016, and found the same as specified above.
FRED. PHILLIPS 1
JOHN WAUGH i
Auditors.
Certified before me this 10th day of January, 1917.
JOHN H. CLAYTON, J.P.
“Nothing” Suits, “Taffatwill” Shirts,
Panamas and Straw Boaters
REDUCED FOR “SQUARE DEAL” SALE
TCSSORETTE WASHING SUITS, Ready to Wear; 3-piece styles (as
illustrated). The famous Leviathan “NOTHING" Braml ; «><,' *»
so light as to give you a feeling of having “nothing of weight on.
hard-wearing Egyptian Cotton Tussorettes—in
Biscuit, Stone and Straw shades —PLAIN or
STRIPED designs. Loose facings and
removable buttons, for washing. Sizes
3 to 7. Usual price, 27/0, but reduced
for “SQUARE DEAL” SALE to
25/11
MADE TO MEASURE, 37/0 (O.S.
sizes, 2/6 extra).
ASK FOR FREE PATTERNS OF
“NOTHING" SUITINGS—TAPE—
HOME-MEASUREMENT CHART.
‘ ‘TAPP AT WILL’ ’ SHIRTS. —With the appear-
ance of the best Taffeta ; in rich Cream Grounds,
with fast-colored Blue, Grey and Black stripes.
Can be had with Soft Double Cuffs Still Luis
or Soft, Single-band Cuffs, with button and link
holes. Reinforced INLAY
SLEEVE “LIFTS” and ‘SPLIT
SLEEVES. Will give wonderful wear. Usual
price, 5/11; “SQUARE-DEALED” (3 for. lt>/9.)
COOL PANAMAS —Jap make; extra light
5/6
weight;
brims.
DEALE
in all the latest shapes; 3|in.
Usual price, 10/(1. "SQUARE-
ID”
8/11
Also in better qualities —
Reduced to 10/11,
13/11, 15/11, 18/11.
STRAW BOATERS —Shape-conforming ; - best
Australian make; fitted with “Ivy Orijr
attachment. Usual price, 6/6. “SQUARE-
DEALED”
In Best English make. Usual price,
“SQUARE-DEALED”
5/11
7/6.
6/9
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
m
m t**
Leviathan
Corner Swanston (& Bourße Streets, MELBOURNE
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-each
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
Records
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/- each
COLUMBIA
“No. 25” SUPPLEMENT.
PINK LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Single-sided, Price 15s. each.
74009
( Rend ’il Sereno, from “The Redemption”
( (in Italian) With Orchestra
Madame Clara Butt,
conducted by Sir Henry
Contralto
.1. Wood
74010-
74011-
7132-
7133-
-FAUST: Jewel Song (In Italian) Madame Elsa Stralia, Soprano
-AIDA: Celeste Aida (In Italian) Hipolito Lnzaio, Juioi
PURPLE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Single-sided, Price 7s. 6d. each.
-Suite in “C” Major-Bourree (Bach) ’Cello Solo, by P-diln Casals
.O Lovely Ngl.t Madame Elsa Stralia, Soprano, with Orchestra
7134
j Time’s Garden
1
Madame Clara Butt,
’Cello Obligato b
Contralto, with
y W. H. Squire
7135
J O Divine Redeemer (Gounod)
1
Madame Clara Butt, Contralto, with
Orchestra conducted by Sir Henry J. Wood
LIGHT BLUE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Double-sidecl, Price 6s. each.
1,1064
j “Faust”
} “Faust”
Ballet Music.
Ballet Music.
Nos. 3 and 4. ..Sir Henry J. Wood and Ms Orchestra
No. 5 Sir Henry J. Wood and his Orchestra
1.1067
Till’s Merry Pranks. Parts 1 and 2 (R. Strauss)
Sir Henry J. Wood
and his Orchestra
1068
j Beethoven Quartette in
} (e) Scherzo.
G. (Op. 18 No. 2) London String Quartet
(d) Allegro Molto : _ ....
1,1069
j Waltz —Opus 42 (Chopin)
l (a) Gondoliera in “G” iial
| Elgar’s Concerto in “IS”
Pianoforte Solo by Leopold Godowsky
t; (b) If I Were a Bird „ „ „ „ „
Minor for Violin and Orchestra
Lion
■f "(a) Allegro; (b) Andante
[Solo by Albert Sammons, with Orchestra conducted by Sir Henry .1
. Violin
[. Wood
L 1072
] (c) Lento; (d) Allegro Molto
)
Violin Solo by Albert Sammons, with
Orchestra conducted by Sir Henry .1. Wood
1,1073
C Marche Militaire (Schubert) Trio: Violin, ’Cello and Piano (Albert
{ Bolero (K. Fcrnandez-Arbos) Sammons*, W. H. Squire & William Murdoch)
Lion
/Cuckoo Song Gervase Elwes, Tenor
t The Roadside Fire ...... » » »
1.1075
\ Scherzo from “A Midsummer Night’s
•V Overture —“The Barber of Seville”
I Beecham Symphony Orchestra
Dream”
(Conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham)
L 1076
fE'a Boheme: Finale, Act 1, “ Eovely Maid in the Moonlight.” (In English)
I Madame Butterfly : Finale, Act 1, “Give Me Your Barling Hands.” (In English)
Duet: Rosina Buckmaii and Maurice D’Oisly
LJO77
(A Perfect Day Gerald O’Brien, Tenor, with ’Cello Obligato
1 Sympathy ......... Gerald O’Brien, Tenor
10-inch Double-sided, Price 4s. 3d.
01348
\ Fantasia on Irish Airs, Part 1
| Fantasia on Irish Airs, Part 2
Violin Solo, by Albert Sammons
SPECIAL “STAR.” LIGHT BLUE.
10-inch Double-sided, Price 3s.
D 1319
s Firelight Glow (Herd and Gideon) Duet: Dorothy Shale and Melville
| Where the Water Melons Grow (Herd and Gideon) Gideon, with Orchestra
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNES, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking- House, Eawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 260 Swanston St.‘
BRISBANE, Q. —King: and King:, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —11. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
MEGGITTS
UNSEED oiIMEAt
m
/AEG
PAR
S.'fc
V
%
/•
W'
\
wov
/^=o
//><**
f ll
»
am
is
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
Pigs, calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. H. McD. Livingstone,
Eosehill Farm, Ivingaroy, at the 1916. show won
seven first prizes with a pen of calves and won the
three butter-fat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-
oil meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.,
s:
y
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers, Parramatta, N. S. Wales.
“Word o’ Truth” :
“When that Pommy said as Bill wos tellin’ a
lie, he got " wot he wos looking for. Any-
ways, a cove wot couldn’t use his hands
better nor that cove should keep his gate shut.”
It was Jim o’ the Pond that wos wordin’ us.
“As I wos tellin’ yous blokes,” he says, “I wos
missing me rabbit-traps somethin’ surprisin’. Tork
about ’poss’ snares doing a get—they jest seemed to
walk away and bury theirselves! I know’d yous
coves hadn’t shook ’em. So I goes round one
night extra early; and where my first trap ought
ter have been I finds a blanky gohanna. All six
foot he was, and took no notice o’ me. When I
belts him with a sapling he just does a reach with
his mouth and spurts out me rabbit-trap. Then he
done a sprint for the roughest stringy-bark an’ made
faces at me. I thought I had me trap, but I
hadn’t; he’d half melted it away in his innards.”
“I had wuss luck nor that,” said Old Bill, “when
I give the rab. brusher. Found two foxes at one o’
me traps. One had his tail in the'trap trying to
pull it away, an’ t’other wos diggin’ out ther peg.
Just got it free when I arrove, an’ he picks up the
chain in his teeth an’ the two of ’em scoots and
climbs a gum-tree.”
“Why, foxes can’t climb trees!” said that Pommy.
“Not Pommy foxes,” says Bill. “But ours have
Tamed by climbing up arter the rabbits’ nests.”
It was there that that Pom spoke too often.
* * * *
“Jobber”: This is how to deal with a
jib. Stand the nark as far back in the breeching as
possible, then fasten his fly-switch to the axle with
a stout piece of tough string (not rope). Then per-
suade the horse to stand -up in the traces a bit, and
if he doesn’t go like a Jew from a porkshop I’ll give
up soldiering and get work.
A DISTINCTION.
JONES AND BROWN (at garden shivoo ): “Can you tell us, Miss, if there's a bar any-
where near?"
ATTENDANT: “Oh, you can get lots of light refreshment here."
JONES AND BROWN: "Oh, thanks. But we’re not thirsty—we merely want a drink."
“Warrego Bill” : Let me have the floor for
a while to debate the question of the mysterious
illuminations that “Will o’ the Wisp” (B. 7/12/’l6)
and “N’importe” (B. 25/l/’l7) have been talking'
about. Did you ever hear of the lights of Changkat
Asah? I don’t suppose you have, but Changkat Asah
is a mountain in the Malay Peninsula, and is sup-
posed by the natives to be inhabited by every known
and unknown variety of spook. At irregular inter-
vals mysterious lights, apparently similar to those
mentioned, in The Bulletin, appear in the vicinity.
They resemble Chinese lanterns, and are carried
along at high velocity by the wind. A rising light
has a tapering tail below and a falling one displays
a similar tail on top. The natives call these illumi-
nations “penanggal,” and regard them with super-
stitious fear. The theory, a la Malay, is that when
a woman dies in childbed she becomes a penanggal,
and at night her head and a short part of an intes-
tine break away from the grave and set out in search
of the nearest man in order to suck away his blood
like a vampire. The word penanggal means “that
which is detached.” The surrounding country is
marshy, and the part that the spooks come from is
supposed to be an old burial-ground. At any rate,
for sheer weirdness commend me to the performance.
The ordinary will o’ the wisp in England is a feeble,
flickering light, being merely marsh gas, a chemical
compound of carbon and hydrogen. This animal
never rises from the ground more than a few feet.
The penanggal, on the other hand, I have seen drift-
ing over Changkat Asah, which is 700 ft. high. Simi-
lar visitations have been noted at Ballachulish and ,
Glencoe, villages on the south side of the salt-water
Loch Leven, in Argyllshire, Scotland. Here there is
no marsh. Tonald puts down the uncanny phenome-
non to the devilry of a dead laird.
* * # *
“Nell Cook”: Tell “Barcoo” (B. 18/IT7)
that there is a species of nardoo growing on the
Barwon which is quite different from his species.
It resides on a thin greyish-green grass stalk about
two feet high, and the seed is about half the size
of .a wheat grain. Jacky-Jack.v’s grinding mills
were formed of- a slightly-hollowed sandstone and
a flat stone for the top, and they were worked round
and round until the powdered meal was produced.
1 have never seen the flour when it was fit for
baking, and it must be a very laborious task to
gather enough for the purpose. The gin who
showed me the stuff growing and the old mills said
the blacks did not trouble the vegetable except when
they were very hard up.
* * * *
“Spreader” : “Barcoo’s” tale about the 10
sheep on Isis Downs (Q.) holding out five years
without water (B. 25/1 /’l7) is a positive fact. I
happened to be repairing the telephone line con-
necting the head station with the blacks’ camp when
the stragglers were mustered.
“Fiat Lux”: “Two Seas” can prevent his
mare from rearing (B. 28/12/’l6) by fixing a
kieking-strap to the shafts in the usual place, passing
it under instead of over the moke.
“Eddyson”: James George Wjnstanley, of
Catgut, had fallen in defence of his country, and
Andrew fyler, J.P., shire councillor, and a man
of eloquence, was deputed to go out to the widow’s
farm at Cup-cup, and break the distressful news as
NOT DRAWN TO SCALE.
WIFEY: “ Isn't this a duck of a hat, dear ?”
DEAR: "Maybe. But isn’t the size of its bill
a little out of proportion?”
gently as possible. Andrew Tyler, J.P., elaborated
his plan of action during the drive. “It’s a fine
day, Mrs. Winstanley,” said he, “a very fine day.
Such weather should be a comfort to us in the
face of any privation. But that’s .not the point.
You re handling the farm well, ma’am. No man
could handle it better. You’ve had a fine harvest,
they tell me, the cows are in great condition, and
these pigs will be worth two pound a piece to you
in a few months. It should be a great satisfaction
to you, anyway, come what will, to know that so
far as a manager and a master is concerned a man
is superfluous. That is not the point though, either.
The boy r s are well, I trust, Mrs. Winstanley. Three,
you say, and all sturdy and strong. What is a man
more or less with the youngsters coming along like
a house afire? That is not the point, either. They
tell me you can keep a furrow with the best, ma’am,
and handle a horse, and fence, and dig, and milk,
and boss a gang of harvesters. Bless my soul, all
things considered I don’t know whether to condole
or congratulate ! Still, that’s not the point. You’re
a fine woman, Mrs. Winstanley; there’s not your
equal in the district, and if a man is really needed
to lun the place, and you feel lonesome and dis-
satisfied, you will have no trouble in getting a
second. In fact, ma’am, I am, as you know, a
widower myself, doing well too, and with no chil-
dien to hinder me, and I shall be happy, ma’am,
to fill the place left vacant by the recent misfor-
tune.” Tyler was forcibly struck by Mrs. Win-
stanley’s subsequent proceedings; and when he had
time and leisure to consider the developments, he
was sitting up in the dust-bath the hens had made,
with a black eye, a cracked head, and a feeling
that suggested damage to three ribs. Tyler arose,
readjusted his tie, dusted his coat, resumed his hat,
and holding his discolored eye in his right hand,
made a fearful reappearance at the widow’s back
door. “Ma’am,” he faltered, “what I wished you
to understand was the fact that your husband is
dead. “Jimmy dead!” cried Mrs. Winstanley.
She steadied herself. She thought matters over
with great deliberation. Then she approached
lyler. “ 01l > Andrew!” she said and wept. Tyler
had broken it gently.
* * * *
A Day Shearer”: Let me ask “M.M.”
(B. 18/1/ what a slushy knows about verbal
agreements. Very likely he never signed one in his
lfe. Ive found them as good as any other as long
as they have a stamp on them.
* * *
‘Tiaki” : I asked a scientific friend what
caused a whip to crack when it was flicked. He
said it was caused by the air rushing into a
vacuum. Then I told him of the crack which I had
heard when Blossom broke her leg-bone, concealed
in an air-tight skin. He suddenly remembered an
appointment..
“Barcoo”: Remains of Binghi's bora
rings can still be identified in many places on in
the initiation of the young buck into the mysteries
necessary in order to qualify to take a gin T h !
turwans (headmen) were the Grand Masters and the
rings were generally
formed on the crest of
some secluded sandy
knoll surrounded by
dense scrub. Two
stadiums for the per-
formance were scooped
out with shells, nul-
lahs and yam sticks,
the soil beihg removed
to a depth of 30
inches and transported
to the rims of the
excavations and
banked up to form a
screen against unin-
vited observers. i n
diameter the rings
were at least 40 feet
and were placed from
12 to 20 feet apart. A
communication trench
connected the two.
The lubras and picca-
ninnies were allowed
no hand in dressing
the stage for the
oeremony, and were
warned under penal-
ties of frightful pun-
ishment against view-
ing the sacred rites.
Very old bucks placed
at observation posi-
tions kept off intru-
ders with an instru-
ment in the shape of
an oblong drum. This
was made out of dried
marsupial skin tied on
the end of a waddy
with native string and
whirled furiously
round and round. It
created a most deaf-
ening noise. Certain
death would fall upon
any member of a
strange tribe caught prying. The aboriginals
during life had three names bestowed upon them—
rst, the birth-name; next, the “kipper” (youth)
name; the last, when he became a “malava,” had
grown a beard and was allowed to choose a gin.
* * * *
“Gee Gee”: I have often measured ’roo
jumps, and generally they average about 20ft. to 25ft.
The longest leap I ever saw a ’roo do was when bailed
up by the dogs, near an old well. He made a spring
at one of the enemy, landed short and went 125 ft. to
the bottom of the hole.
* * * *
“Gerald Barker”: Here, on the Goldfields
of TV.A., I have had many opportunities of measuring
the jump or stride of the kanga., and this is what I
have learned. On a straight run, without obstacles;
a full-grown animal will make uneven jumps,
approximately measuring 27ft., 12ft., 27ft., 12ft., and
si on. That is, of course, with the dogs in chase.
On parts of the fields we still have the grey and
red varieties, and a blue doe will cover equally as
much ground as an old-man red, although she is
much smaller in size. The pads of the ’roo on these
plains are the tracks into water, and I have always
found that their ordinary travelling stride is 6ft. or
thereabouts. “Two Seas” (B. 4/l/’l7) is quite right
about their dislike of going over a fence; they will
go under every time if possible. As for the brittle-
ness of their bones, that’s quite correct, too. By
the bye, the meat of the red ’roo is far nicer than
the meat of grey ’roo.
* * * *
“Nick Bottom” : Tired of “spotted dawg”
a deputation from the fencing camp approached the
. boss for a change of tucker. Among other things
the spokesman suggested blanc-mange and fruit.
“Very well,” said the boss, “I’ll send you some dried
apricots and a few packets of cornflour.” Then
Piercy chipped in. “To hell with your blanky corn-
flour, ’ said he. “We want bler-monge!”
* * * *
“Ses”: Of all the hatters I have known
none enjoyed his own exclusive company more than
“Solo Joe.” He was boundary-riding, on Whitta-
branah, and his camp was pitched in a spot where
nobody ever passed. He was perfectly content with
his own thoughts and talked to himself by the
hour. Sometimes he would disagree with his own
statements and argue the point, and at other times
he would laugh heartily at some yarn he told him-
self. He hail been enjoying himself in this way for
five months without a break, when some musterers
made camp with him for a night. After tea he
took his accustomed seat at the fire, but when the
visitors got into full swing he left in disgust. “So
much jabberin’ goin’ on here,” he mumbled, “a
man can’t have a word with himself at all.”
THE TEETOTALLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tom Rogers was the greatest tank
That ever lived at Piper’s.
In fact, he well deserved to rank
Among historic swipers.
And one day when he slumbered in
The bar-room of McGibbon,
Upon his coat, beneath his chin,
We sewed a big blue ribbon.
Tom still was tight when he awoke.
He saw the bright blue favor.
The poor man’s accents when he spoke
Had quite a touching quaver.
The ribbon fascinated him,
He made no move to doff it,
But groaned, and gurgled: “I shay, Jim,
How long ’ave I been off it?”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


X
r
p
vi
U
■s
m
m
m
i
m
\
m
7a
0
7
fir
Dunlop
lyres
STOCKED IN GROOVED,
THREE RIBBED, AND
ROBBER NON-SKID.
All Leading Garages.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
All Slates and N.Z,
Sculptor : “Australia fighting foreign invasion abroad.”
Our Envoy: “Yes—whilst oversea makers are securing
Australian trade. That’s where you Motorists
can help, Sir, and with absolute gain to
yourself and Country. DUNLOP TYRES
mean employment for Australians, and much
better service than from any imported tyre—
and at less cost.”
Sculptor: “You are right. My experience with White
Tread Dunlops has been absolutely satis-
factory, and not one penny of mine goes
out of the Country if I can help it! ”


%
m
A REMARKABLE FEAT
BY OXY-ACETYLENE
is demonstrated by the illustration, which shows how an old and worthless boiler, forty yeais
of age and of enormous dimensions, was cut into small pieces and carried away Irom a
confined situation in the basement of a printing works. Th e^wh° le work, conducted undCT
the most difficult of situations, was finished in two days. Without OXY-ACEI
the work would have taken weeks, and the whole of the printing machinery and plant would
have been idle and disorganised for weeks in excavation and dismantling work.
EVERY ENGINEER and all interested should write in for free catalogues, giving
pictures and detailed description of this and other remarkable engineering achievements. e
total length of cutting done in the two days, by one man, was 144 ft. bin. of a single
thickness of lin. plate, and 18ft. Sin. of the double thickness of 2in. plate.
THROUGHOUT GREAT BRITAIN, AMERICA AND THE CONTINENT the
OXY-ACETYLENE process is being more extensively used day by day for cutting up
iron and steel structures, such as old boilers, tanks, bridgework, etc.
Every Australian Engineer should be able to speak with facility and confidence of the OXY-ACETYLENE
Cutting and Welding Process.
1
m
mm
mmmm
m
■
■
H
mmm
\
■
im
:
i
■i
:c
i
ti
B
-
3H
R®
Cutting: up a Cornish
Multitubular Boiler.
urn
-
Those workshops which are rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, contractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers,
repair shops, foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Agents— MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Etd., Murray Street.
The Inky Way.
“Quarter Single”: An Australian press-
man, Keith A. Murdoch, has done a big
thing—he has secured an interview, for
publication as such, with a British Prime
Minister. It was for the Sydney Sun and
Melbourne Herald, and was about the aims
and objects of the Empire War Council.
Murdoch, who is still in the early thirties,
is the London correspondent to the Aus-
tralian papers which subscribe to the
Times and “United” cable services. Origin-
ally Malvern correspondent for the Age, he
worked his way up the staff until he was
doing Federal “rounds.” Then he accepted
the job, in succession to Campbell Jones,
now the Sun’s managing editor, of Sun
correspondent in Melbourne. When Jones
returned from London to Australia Murdoch
succeeded him again. He thus entered the
heavens whose sun is Northcliffe, _ of the
Times, and when Billy Hughes arrived the
man who was in touch with the Times was
enormously useful. Hence, no doubt, the pre-
sent interview with Lloyd George. Keith is a
son of Scotchbyterian parson P. J. Murdoch
and a nephew of Walter Murdoch, now pro-
fessor of English in Perth Uni., and for-
merly “Elzevir” of the Argus. #
“Warrego Bill”: Anyone can have a
pressman’s job for me. W hen news of the
deluge at Clermont came to Brisbane I was
sent off at an hour’s notice on the 690-mile
trip. It was good going till we got to
Capella, where an optimistic railway official
told us that we could cover the 31 miles to
Clermont by 4 p.m. if we started at 1 p.m.
He was the son of a land agent. It took
us 11 hours to do the distance in pouring
rain. For about 15 miles we walked along
the smashed and twisted railway, and the
rest of the distance was negotiated on two
railway “pumpers.” We had 35 people and a
ton of luggage on those trolleys, and every
creek we had to wade through, carrying
our luggage. In places we travelled down
hill at a break-neck speed over lines which
hung clear over gaping holes. At otheis
we got out and pushed, knee-deep in mud
and "water, and barking our shins at every
step. We got to the end some time near
midnight. Then an unkind postmaster
refused to accept any wires. Next morning
early I lodged 1000 words, but in the
afternoon was told that there was no possible
hope of getting them away from Clermont.
So I walked out to Langton, eight miles, to
borrow a horse to go the other 23 miles to
Gapella. Finding the creeks beyond Lang-
ton impassable I had to turn back, leave
the horse at Langton and return per boot
to Clermont. When 1 arrived there 1 learned
that the messages I had lodged at • > a.m.
had not vet been sent. Next morning a
telegram from the office came sizzling in
asking me if I was dead !
* * * *
Mrs. De Boos, just buried at Euro a.
would have been 100 this year if
she had waited. Her husband who
died 10 years ago, was the Melbourne
pressman who in 1840 wrote up the
first gold discovery at Anderson s C reek. Her
brother helped to produce the first issue of
the Illustrated London News. He last
visited Australia at the age of 84. and did
not long survive the trip. Mrs. De Boos
leaves 21 descendants. The youngest grand-
son, Sergt. W. K. De Boos, and the eldest
great-grandson, Bugler Hoy Emmett, are
helping to “dis” the Huns. *
“Roundhead”: Locked his last forme,
Alfred Henry Mussina, printer and pub-
lisher, who, as proprietor of the Australian
Journal, ran as a serial five times in suc-
cession Marcus Clarke’s “Term of His
Natural Life.” For more than 50 years he
ran his Swanston-street printery, having
begun as a journeyman C>3 years ago. His
grandsons carry on the business. He was
the first in Victoria to use the linotype, and
it was on a linotype that his obituary was
set. The Richmond Free Press, founded by
him in 1871, predeceased him..
“Quarter Single” : Re smart headings (B.
l/2/’l7). An Argus cable sub., dealing
with the exploits of a swindler whose long-
suit was precious stones, and who was known
as “The King of Diamonds,” headed the
announcement of liis conviction, “The King
of Diamonds —Turns Out to Be the Knave. ’
Of unfortunate headings, a well-remembered
one was that used by a Sydney evening paper
when a barber suicided. ‘‘Barber’s Rash
Act” was the caption, but as fat black type
was used the first line consisted of the two
words, “Barber’s Rash.” A Melbourne
Herald heading on the Stamboul Univer-
sity’s nomination of the Kaiser for the
Nobel Peace Prize : “Porte, No Longer Sub-
lime, Descends to the Ridiculous.” An
Argus heading on the arrest of a forger of
cheques—“Cheque and Countercheck.” Same
on a Chow fined for negligently riding a
bike —“A Cycle of Cathay.” When Monty
(trover was on the rounds for the Argus
lie wrote up- a case in which a woman had
made a wager to ride her bike down Collins-
street in rational dress, but failed to keep
the bet. I forget whether his heading got
past the sub.—the late Jack.Nish., It was
“Breeches of Promise.” Another good stroke
which failed to see the light of day was the
caption used by E. N. (“Cabot”) McCulloch,
then of the Age, on the police-court story^of
a youngster who claimed to be a pirate —“A
v-' of Kidd.”
* * * *
“Copy Boy”: An inky wayfarer (B.
1/2/TT) asks for examples of brilliant
headings “actually printed in papers of
standing.” Well, three of the “heads” were
charged with "playing an unlawful game,”
and Sydney Evening Snooze allowed its
police-court minion to exclaim: “Three Up
for Two-Up.” A Melbourne Herald account
of a chess match between Sydney and Mel-
bourne teams, played by telegraph and last-
ing 24 hours, was headed. “Fellows, of In-
finite Chess.” The same paper printed a
par telling how a man was knocked down by
a cart, while pausing to look at the Flin-
ders-street railway clock, under the heading
"Time and Eternity.” A. bloke arrested for
burglary gave his occupation as “musician.
Up went the headline: “Orpheus and His
Loot.” I’m sorry that that was Amurrikan.
The most brilliant headings perpetrated by
reporters often fail to reach the linos. For
example, Monty Grover’s “The Sermon on
the Mount,” attached to an interview with
the rider of a Melbourne Cup winner.
“G.H.” : I' was struck by lightning just
before' I wrote the caption “Submerged
Tenth,” cited by “Sesquipedalian” (B.
1/2/T7). I was walking from headquarters
to the flooded telegraph tent when a flash
of lightning struck my umbrella and knocked
it out of my hand. The press at the time
was booming the camp and making light of
the discomforts of the men ; hence the need
of a headline with a grin in it. When the
trainees read so frequently that they were
having a good time they began to almost
believe it, despite their obvious discomforts.
It had the psychological effect of making
them grin and bear it. The almost naked
“Keystone” band which daily paraded the
lines did much to cheer the men. Colonel
Kirkland handled the brigade splendidly,
despite his harshness and love for discipline.
When the Hughsiliers went into camp I
suggested that it would help the Referendum
if the pleasures of camp life (if any) were
again boosted. I was met with the extraor-
dinary but characteristically military reply
that as compulsory training was the law
there was no need to popularise it. The
Referendum was defeated. The rest speaks
for itself.
* * * *
“Lou Par”.: Adelaide papers make a hobby
of interviewing the hoary pioneers who
thrive so well in South Oss. Apropos, a
yarn is told of the late Surgeon-Major J. M.
Hinton, who had served in the Crimean
War. The old vet. was a regular meal for
The Register, which dished him up twice
a year. The old chap was highly pleased
with the attention for a while. Then the
novelty wore off and he got to loath the
pressmen who shouted in his ear. Conse-
quently when he made his final exit he left
instructions that the press was not to be
told of it until his ashes had been scattered
to the 14 winds. The Register got off its
usual column; but by that time it didn’t
matter. The old man’s ear was in 25
different places.
* * * *
“Boulder Bill” : The WestraMan Worker
is on the lookout for anew editor —the
umteenth —John Hilton having laid down
the pen, after a record run of 3i years,, dur-
ing which he attempted to bring out single-
handed a bright sheet, while trying to sat-
isi'y 2317 people, who, having learned how
to lay bricks and repair boots, are naturally
qualified to decide how a paper should be
run. Tli 1 culmination came with the Con-
scription crisis. The Kalgoorlie Congress,
after three days’ discussion, expressed its
confidence in the Hughes Government, and
because Hilton shaped his policy accord-
ingly a number of Antis proceeded to froth
at the mouth, and Hilton had to go. He
is a life-long democrat who did hard manual
labor for a living up to the age of 30, and
lias since had 20 years’ journalistic experience.
“F.N.T.”: The South-street Society
(Ballarat) has just awarded 35 small cash
prizes as a result of its yearly “literary”
competitions. There were IS subjects, a
somewhat dreary lot as usual —12 essay,
three' story, two critical and one poetry—
and the competitions seem to have been care-
fully avoided by most of Australia’s known
pen-people. Charles Daley, of Caulfield,
heads the list with two firsts and two sec-
onds in the heavy-drauglit class (such mat-
ters as “Influence of Climate on Health and
National Character,” for instance). Alfred
Deakin’s fiver for an “original tale” was
taken by Bessie Threadgill, of the Holy
City, and another £5 for an “Australian
story” was won by a Miss Eisemann, whose
family farms at Bacchus Marsh. There were
17' adjudicators, all but two of them dwelling
in the rich intellectual atmosphere of Bal-
larat district —accountants, sharebrokers,
parsons, a doctor, a printer, a mining engi-
neer, an insurance.-agent and a variety of
people whose claims as critics are not ap-
parent at first glance. The musician who
judged the poems is, however, clearly a per-
son of taste and discernment, for he handed
the first prize to Mrs. M. Forrest, of Brisbane.
* * * *
“Mul'knh”: Here is my parade of prize
telegraphic bulls. Some Bananalanders were
lately mystified by a wire from Victoria say-
ing “Father sailed yesterday.” As they felt
they ought to go and meet the old man
tliev wired south for further particulars* and
found that the original message should have
been “Father died yesterday.” A few
months ago a country newspaper proprietor
thought the end of the war was in sight
at last, when his telegraphed ‘ press con-
tained a statement that the Almighty had
ordered four cruisers. A lam worth
CN.S.W.) man received a wire inquiring
“Have my potatoes left yet?” Being an
intelligent host, he wired back “Your people
still here.” The worst writing I ever saw
led to an astounded city firm receiving an
order for a truck of loose treacle. Boeksalt
was the article required. Telegraph operat-
ing becomes purely mechanical. The average
telegraphist would revive a message announc-
ing the death of the Kaiser and be as aston-
ished as the next reader when he saw it in
the papers next day.
IN OTHER DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I used to touch a joyous harp, in golden years and
years agone,
But when I tune the worn strings now, friends tell
me I am “getting on.’’
They mean thereby that I am old, and slow and
tame and dull of ear,
That Life for me should have no joys in Woman,
Wine or even Beer.
One, kinder than the rest, deposed: “He can’t
write stuff —well, just as good" ;
Another, ruder, put it straight : “B'tlosh ! The old
chap never could.”
N.s.w.
M. B.
HIS AMBITION.
[FOR THE BULLEIN.]
I am an editor (ah, me!),
And office troubles turn me grey.
An acolyte I’d rather be,
And swing a censor every day !
VICTORIA.
S. S.


The New Sun for the Whole World!
B.T.H. MAZDA ELECTRIC LAMPS.
m
w»
1
;
m
Iffll II
L r**\
m
m f f.;,
1 I I Hi ‘
1 I
ii 11 hi*' *0
■ll • ».i
ii
m
• §
Li
I
1
I
• ’
. , ■••• ' • ' .• •■ ■'■ . • V .
A
P
m.
,
Si
#
0
‘Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Etd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646. 2647; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


CHARMING GIFTS
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold half-roiino j^ceiet
with Safety Chain, plain or engraved, 25/- 30/-
£2, £2/10/-
Isct, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-, £4,
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, or Pearls and Turquoise,
; 25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, extra-heavy, richly en-
graved, 30/-. 15ct., 50/-;
Plain. initials engraved,
6ame price.
■
liiY'i
A. Saunders’ Hunting Keyless
Lever, 30/-. Extra-quality Silver Cases
and Works, £2/-, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £6, £7/10/-.
Rolled Gold Cases, 10 years’ guarantee,
£2/15/-; 20 years’, £4/4/-; 25 years’,
£5/5/-, £6/6. Solid Gold, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Sig-
net Ring,
25/-.
15ct., £2.
IBct, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Cluster Ring,
set pure double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-;
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O, £25.
3 SSi
h
vt
'V
m
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold
Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, £5/10/-.
Other styles, £3/10/-, £4, £5,
£6, £7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold
Cluster Drop
Earrings, set pure
double-cut Diamonds,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
_ £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold Neck-
lace, set Diamonds
and Pearls,
£B/10/-
AU Diamonds,
£l2/10/-'
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold S c. v e r e i g n
Purse, 40/-; extra
heavy, 50/-. 15ct„
£3/12/6. Gold-filled,
17/6. Silver, 7/6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Pendant, set
Pearls and Amethyst,
22/6.
A. Saunders'
9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Red
Stones, 30/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set two
Double-cut Dia-
monds and one
Pearl, Oval setting
£2/15/-
3 Diamonds,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Half-hoop
Ring, ■set pure
Diamonds,
£B/10/-
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Souvenir Pen-
dant, 10/6; with
Enamel Shield, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George St., Sydney (Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Snap Padlock Bancle
£2/10/-. Others, 25/-, 30/-, £2, £3, £3/10/-,’
15ct„ £3, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set
three Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonc^
£l5, £2O.
A Saunders’
15ct. Gold Claw
Ring, set Austra-
lian Redstone,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Two-bar
Brooch, set Diamond and four Rubies,
25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Sleeve Links,
handsomely ■; ngraved,
20/-. 15ct. Gold, 35/-
/
s
V.
A. Saunders’ Keyless Lever Watch,
15/-. Our Special Non-raagiietic Lever,
20/-, 25/-, 30/-. Extra-quality Cases
and Works, £2, £2/10/-, £3. AH
guaranteed.
RYDERS
SEEDS
" FROM OYER THE SEA^
will give you the best flowers of the old
Homeland and the finest home-grown
Vegetables.
Illustrated Catalogue
of Ryders Seeds in Penny Packets
FREE to anyone anywhere.
RYDER <5 SON, Ltd.
Seed Merchants. ST. ALBANS. ENG.
%
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
M Shipped in British, vessels. . H
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
twana tons Lescher & Webb, Ltd. — Liverpool & London.
m
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. MSrrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
.each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, II- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’. Workshop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards; illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. I-low
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m
1
NOAIE CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the‘information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. ' Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this creat work. It will be posted
tp ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
I®~BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.^®
Prop. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks-’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1 /-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. Hojy to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping. 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (.new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The AVaybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. iXTEstablished 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Thicks' with Cards, 1/- Sapphc,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. Hoiv to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings/ 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather boynd,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors. 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and mu'ic
complete), ’ 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot, 67 $ 69
Market Street, Sydney <onlyi


NOTICE TO AGENTS
Many agents are still forwarding and
claiming- for “unsolds.”
Our circular letter dated 27th July,
1916, advises that on account of the
scarcity of printing paper the system
of allowing for returns will be discon-
tinued.
Agents kindly note that these
instructions must be strictly complied
with.
Alterations in supplies should reach
us not later than Monday to take effect
on the following publishing day in
each w-eek.
TTmTa QxxlZeiv/i
214 George Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
THOMAS B. KERIN, last heard of
Hughenden, Q., please write Mother.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
-[■IVOIiI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
Tivoli theatre, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE PASSING SHOW.
SYDNEY JAMES, MADELINE ROSSITER, GWEN
LEWIS, W. G. DESMOND, GEORGE GRAYSTONE,
CONNIE MILNE and WINIFRED LEVIERE.
Also Mons. GOOSSENS, ROSE and DELL,
Mdlle. LINGARDE, VAUDE and VERNE.
Plan at Glen's.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE ORCHID.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 17.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY, including
FLORENCE YOUNG, in the London and New York
Brilliant Success,
THE PINK LADY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
BARRY LUPINO as “EDDIE.”
Smartest and Brightest of Musical Corned;- Successes.
ONLY TWO WORDS—BUT WHAT REAL
JOY.
W HITE Cl T Y
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE SMART SET
(from LONDON).
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and*!/-. Reserved, 2/6.
m
TRIANGLE plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at S p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer's Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrjngton Miller, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT,
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
Til 13 ATIt E It «VA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present FLORENCE
ROCKWELL in
THE MISLEADING LADY.
Prices as usual.
► ItINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
FOR A LIMITED NUMBER OF NIGHTS.
Reappearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Popular Prices.
K
ING’S THEATRE, MELBO U R N E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY k JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 17.
Reappearance of ALLEN DOONE in
THE PARISH PRIEST.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21,
IN OLD DONEGAL.
Popular Prices.
The finest show at
MELBOURNE.
ST. HILDA,
EVERY EVENING, 8.30.
DANDIES.
BEST COMEDIANS. BEST SINGING.
The Prices, like the Dandies, are Popular.
JHE AUDITORIUM,, MELBOURN E.
William Fox presents Australia’s Perfect Woman,
ANNETTE KELLERMANN,
in his Million-dollar Spectucle,
A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS.
“THE PICTURE BEAUTIFUL.’’
2—PERFORMANCES DAILY—2.
Plan at Allan’s.
I R
CH & CAItKOLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princr-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers. , , ...
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control,
Representatives in Queensland for the General I'ilm
Comnanv of Australasia Ltd. „
H eai> Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
FU LL E R’S HOTEL. MELBOURNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cola
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night • Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
tx^cJuna
CURES ECZEMA.
Racing men will be glad to recognise the well-
inown llandwick trainer, Sam Fielder, in a new
r6le A sufferer for years from Eczema, and tail-
ing to <-et relief from any of the remedies which
Were advised by doctors, he set out to find one for
himself. After diligent search and many trials
re succeeded in compounding a remedy which he
lesignated Exzerma, and which not only _ cured him-
self but hundreds of others in the various States.
Write 8. Fielder, Randwick, for particulars. All
chemists, 5/- and 2/6.
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick.
51-, 216
Business Notices.
Light your
motor-car
with the Edison Storage Batteries, and thus
ensure reliable service and complete satisfac-
tion at all times.
With Edison
Storage
Batteries
there is no shedding of active material, no
sediment to clean out, no breaking of jars,
no expert attention required —and no charg-
ing troubles.
Call for demonstration, or write for full
details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
304-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
(fIPILLfIRINE
j CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
m
The ideal prepara-
tion for growing
thosg short, stubby
moustaches a ffected
by the military is
undoubtedly CAI’IL-
LARINE. .Hundreds
have proved its un-
failing merit. Send
for a Jar to-day.
Price 10/6 Jar—Post Free.
Craig 8 Aitkcn.
Established over 30 years.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and i Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Just the thing for the dairy
Of course you can’t use oily, poi-
sonous, acid metal polish on milk
pails and separators, but you can
use Bon Ami! Bon Ami works
just like a metal polish, that is to
say, it is wet when you rub it on
For all tFie
Finer Kinds of
Cleaning
and dry when you wipe it off.
That makes easy cleaning.
Bon Ami is perfectly safe to use
in a dairy. It contains no acids
or poisons,—nothing but a little
soap and a clean, white, soft,
crumbly mineral.
Bon Ami is finer than ordinary
scouring soap and it won’t scratch.
Accordingly you can safely use
»t on polished surfaces.
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.”
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types. '
When writing for catalogs, state type ot
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
faille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
’ 4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
iar
iA
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia —or bloodlessness —
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
m
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks —
gives a sparkle to the eyes —
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
-3 amis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/- and 6/6, but if
you experience any difficulty in obtain-
ing it, write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & J ohnson, 233, Clarence
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IE any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


HOYT'S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to G,
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
a ’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: Gd. & 1/-;
- Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/G.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
a
0
a®
W HEIST the full story of the excellence of our Motor
Ambulances comes to be written, it will be found that
the Challiner Patent Detachable Rims and Tyres have
contributed —not a little —to their perfect organisation.
ADOPTED BY THE ALLIED FORCES—you could not have a
better testimony to their value. Fit them to your car and save
time and annoyance.
CHALLINERS
Patent
THE SHREWSBURY S.T. and
GHALLINER TYRE CO., LTD.,
Ardwick, Manchester & London.
Detachable Rims
Represented by T. A. MEIKLE, Australasian Agents, 556 George Street, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
Is it to be- “Fail Columbia” V
The last man is still being looked for ; but
Premier Holman seems to have found AndreAV
Fisher’s last shilling.
Last week the committee of the Henty
(Vic.) Labor League decided that it could
not associate itself with or support the
effort to get volunteers for the Front !‘as it
believes the recruiting campaign is greatly
responsible for the present state of unem-
ployment.” For The Bulletin’s part it
merely makes the Henty P.L.C. a present
of the following appeal of the working
classes of Belgium, and suggests that it
pray to God that, when Australia is over-
run and trampled upon, no foreign labor
league will remember the Henty resolution
and fling it in our teeth
Workers of Australia, —We do not doubt you.
Our cause is yours. If we did not denounce to
you the outrages which menace us, one day you
would reproach us, saying, “You had not the
right to keep silent and to suffer your martyrdom
in silence; if a nation of civilised workers is
reduced to a degree, of servitude, the whole working
IN DEFENCE.
JUDGE: “Prisoner, have you anything further
to add to your defence?”
PRISONER: “Well, y’honor, I should like you
to consider me rotten luck with, me
counsel.”
class is hit. We workers of free Australia would
not have allowed them to commit these outrages.
It is from slavery the modern working class has
come; it must not now g-o back.” Workers of
Australia, in the depths of our distress we rely on
you. Do you act!
Australia’s policy in regard to the
colonies seized from the Germans in the
Pacific —Hans off!
The Commonwealth got its £18,000,000
Avar loan and a good deal besides ; and now
it is time to look ahead and consider what'
is going to happen when the debt falls due.
So far, every Avar loan that has been locally
issued has had attached to it a promise of
repayment in 1925 ; and there is no reason
to expect that in 1925 money will be avail-
able for the mere picking-up. We shall
have to float other war loans yet; and it is
about time Ave followed the British practice
NOTHING DOING.
ACTOR: “ Thought I’d let you know I am
looking for something. Almost anything
would suit' me.”
MANAGER: “A.h, yes, but I have to he more
particular."
and spread the dates when the lOU will fall
due. The British Government hasn’t under-
taken to repay a -bean (apart from a small
quantity of Exchequer bonds) before 1929:
and the bulk hasn’t to be found until 1947,
though the Treasury mostly reserves the
right to pay up sooner. Also, on the prin-
ciple of not leaving all the burden to the
kid, the British Treasury sets aside monthly
one-eighth of 1 per cent, of each loan “to
form a fund to be used for purchasing stock
or bonds for cancellation Avhenever the
market price falls below the issue price.”
Though he is a terribly harassed John Bull
he isn’t so harassed as to forget that he has
to pay off a loan as Avell as raise'it. Which
is probably Avhy certain outrageous Censor-
ship instructions were issued in Australia a
feAv weeks ago—instructions that somebody
in the Senate ought to inquire about.
Russia may shake and France give at the
knees, but Junee (N.S.W.) stands firm
and defies the Prussian. Taking a lead
from the Legislative Assembly, the states-
men Avho make up the Municipal Council
lately passed a resolution in favor of pro-
longing the life of the body, as at present
constituted, till the end of the war on the
ground that a change might be detrimental
to the Allies.
Maoriland’s Military Service Act is
giving some queer results. Shearers
and slaughtermen from Australia put
in a portion of their year in M.L.;
they make a sort of round of it. But
this year the Union officials have
quietly dropped Avord that the absence
of the Australians will greatly Help
their brother-unionists in resisting the
Act; and the hint is being taken
enthusiastically. So the Australian,
having succeeded in killing conscrip-
tion in his own country, is helping to
make it abortive in somebody’s else’s.
Meantime in France
The provisions of Holman’s special Act
have not yet been enforced against the
1.W.W., which continues to hold its meet-
ings in Sydney, Avhile Direct Action makes
its appearance every week in a subdued
whisper. In fact, it is all subdued: with
the shadow of John Hop hanging over it
there is quite a Sunday-school look about
the whole outfit.
Sydney Telegraph lays down the law: —
If the Tudorites agreed... .there would be some
justification for approaching the Imperial Govern-
ment for legislation prolonging the life of Parlia-
ment.
So, if groups of politicians put their heads
together, and after a hole-and-corner con-
fabulation decide to (1) hang on to their
jobs for longer than they were appointed,
and (2) to rob the people of their votes,
the deed can be justified—provided the
thieves don’t fall out over the plunder!
The N. S. Wales lawyer will lose a lot of
work when the new Workmen’s Compensa-
tion Act comes into force on July 1.
The old Employers’ Liability ‘Act
allowed so many exceptions that it
was worth w T hile for the employer or
the ‘insurance co. to fight a claim on
the off-chance that some point
would get home. The new Act
brings in practically every em-
ployee—including clerks, domes-
tic servants and rural workers—and
gives a claim to compensation for any
sort of injury. It will hit some
people hard, of course; but it will
make the question of compensation
less of a gamble, and hurt Costs in
consequence.
It is deplorable that Supreme Court
Judges should have to decide, as Justice
Hodges did iu Melbourne last week, that
women clerks should get less money than
men, because “the minimum wage is fixed
on the assumption that the man maintains
the family, not the woman.” The error
underlying this is at the bottom of one of
Australia’s greatest dangers. Men begin
to think they can he paid according not to
what they earn but to what they want. The
true Labor principle is that the worker shall
have the fruits of his labor —that he shall
get what he earns. The . utterly rotten
practice adopted by his Honor Hodges is
that a woman shall not get what she earns,
and that either the man in the same em-
ployment shall get more than he earns or
the employer shall pocket the surplus earn-
ings of the woman. It is a piece of social
dishonesty that a civilised State ought to be
ashamed of.
After all, Peace without Victory is easy.
It is the sort of black eye you take home
with you after you have been too proud to
fight.
The only difference seems to be that
Cook was ready to follow Hughes and Big-
john to swallow him.
Oratory by Hughes to Melbourne Cham-
ber of Commerce:—
If the population is to be employed the employer
must know where he is.
And what has Hughes been doing to let “the
employer know where he is”? A comparison
of the imports during the last three .years
answers that question. For example, im-
ports of apparel, etc., increased from
£16,199,525 in 1.914 to £22,359.671 in 1916 ;
whisky increased from £798,964 to
£1,201.564 ; cordage and twine from £707,760
to £947,652. The Australian employer in
these industries knows where he is, all
right—he’s in the mud. And the tariff-
sinking Hughes put him there.
HER HIT.
THE MODEL: “No, I’ve decided not to sit
any more for unmarried artists. It's
not right.”
THE ARTIST: “ uh, yarn, don't he such a
wowser.”
THE MODEL: “It’s not that; but I think
they ought to he at the war.”
( Proceedings in the Federal Arbitration
Court are only “proceedings” by courtesy
in many. cases. The other day ‘ the High
Court delivered a decision in an Arbitration
matter affecting the Federated Engine-
drivers and Firemen, as plaintiffs, and
the C. 5.11. Co. and others as defendants
4he decision was that, in spite of certain
technical objections raised, a dispute existed
which called for the intervention of- the
Court. The plaint about the alleged dis-
pute was filed on September 10. 191,1.
Patience is its own reward in the Arbitra-
tion Court.
THE ARROGANCE OF THE NEW.
FIRST AMATEUR (to second ditto): “Just
fancy travelling in one of those old-
fashioned dirt-lifters !”
Oh, yes, Australia’s statesmen are helping
Britain all right. Harassed John Bull has
for two long years been turning out trans-
ports, cargo carriers, patrol boats and
vessels of all sorts as fast as his mechanics
can do it; lie has even got his women folk
working 60 hours a week on the job. l’ot it
is a solemn and shameful fact that Aus-
tralia’s Navy Department lias two hopper
barges under construction on the Clyde, at a
cost of £57,000. This while a shipyard well
able to carry out the work is lying compara-
tively idle in Melbourne.
Brookfield, .whose endorsement as Labor
candidate for Cann’s old seat in the N. S.
Wales Assembly was hung up for a while
pending an inquiry as to his connection with
the 1.W.W., was branded before the polling-
day, and won easily. It was ascertained
that Brookfield was not and never had been
a member of the I.W.W. Of course he isn’t
a member of the I.W.W. If he had made
that mistake he couldn’t join the Labor
party. But the first thing he did after the
election was to preside at an I.W.W. meet-
ing, from which he accepted an instruction
to hold up the business of Parliament at
every opportunity until the I.W.W. fire-bugs
are released. It looks as though the Labor
party may be sorry for that endorsement
yet. Not that it made much difference. The
young man whose first plank is to “fight
like hell” for the release of I.W.W. prisoners
would have been elected in any case.
The P.L.L. of N. S. Wales held a sort of
stock-taking recently and the result should
shock the people who imagine that the
Executive had merely made trouble for it-
self. The purpose of the rally was to find
out in time if there was any dissatisfaction,
so that the decks might be cleared before
the coming elections. The 400 delegates
who attended as representatives of 200,000
P.L.L. members gave absolute endorsement
to the Executive, and proceeded to discuss
the measures necessary for hurling ex-
T.abor politicians into political darkness
and securing victory for the machine.
One of the most difficult problems after
the war wall be the woman who stays at
her- new-found work.
THE ANZAC’S REVEILLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why crossed we the foam
When we worshipped our home,
And with death come to grips
AVith a laugh on our lips,
To be mangled and yet
Breathe not a regret,
But thrill with desire
Leaping through us like fire,
To again challenge Fate
Side by side with a male ?
Are we madmen or what
Who frolic ’mid shot,
AVIIO scaled in the night
Gallipoli’s height,
Where like lions some fell
In a blast as from hell?
Why flocked we to fight
In scorn and delight ?
Because that we saw
Might trampling on Law,
And glutting its greed
AVith an infamous deed!
Because—and thoughts caibe
With a rush as of flame —
Did the tyrants of Might
Crush the warriors of Right,
Australia adored
Would be swept by the sword ;
And our homes, each a shrine
That to us seemed divine,
For which we had toiled,
Burnt, branded, despoiled ;
And our mothers and wives,
AVere they granted their lives,
Stained, beaten, abhorred
And priekt with the sword—
This is why
’Neath an alien sky
Australians fiercely fight and die
In passionate love of Liberty-!
K.S.W. :
ARTHUR BAYLDON.
A BALLADE OF LTTTLE MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The big guns boom and the shrapnel screams,
And the stench of valiant clay mounts high.
The soaked earth red in the sunlight gleams,
And the wings of the watchers soar and fly.
Here in the shelter of sham and pay,
Blind and impotent, dead to shame,
But never dumb, though with naught to say,
Are the placemen playing the party game.
A Quilpisli figure with deep-laid schemes,
Posing still in the limelight’s ray,
With gags, too ancient for Walter Weems,
Holds the stage for a passing day.
Another, bald as an oak in. May,
Pipes his platitudes, shrill and tame,
Or snaps and snarls in a futile way—
They all are playing the party game.
Leader-writers pen reams and reams,
Pifflers fitfully rant and bray,
And a Tudor speaks with the voice of Jeames,
For he who leads must perforce obey.
Statesmen we looked for —where are they ?
War grows redder with shame and flame —
But the jaws wag ever the Hun to slay—
They all are playing the Party game.
L’Envoi.
Lord, for a leader we humbly pray;
Grant to us one we can so proclaim.
Little men over the landscape stray—
They all are playing the Party game!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


DO YOU RECITE?
The Bulletin” Reciter.
The Most Representative Australian
Reciter published.
How McDougail Topped
the Score,
and other Verses and Sketches for
Recitation, by Thos. E. Spencer.
OTHER “BOOKSTALL” FAVORITES
IN RACING SILK,
By GERA IJ) R. BALDWIN
THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,
By JOHN X. CAMERON
THE CALLING VOICE,
By E. F. CHRISTIE
THAT DROLL LADY,
By THOS. E. SFENCER
THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR-
LAUNCH
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,
By NORMAN LINDSAY
STELLA SOTHERN,
By I. A. ROSENBLUM
THE GOLDEN KANGAROO,
By AMBROSE PRATT
BINDAWAI LA,
By TIIOS. E. .SPENCER
MUM DAWSON —BOSS,
By SUMNER LOCKE
STEELE RUDD’S SELECTION STORIES.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S SPORTING NOVELS.
SODGER SANDY’S BAIRN,
By A. BATHGATE
THE TRADER,
By CECIL ROSS-JOHNSON
CHANDLER OF CORRALINGA,
By R. J. CASSIDY
A BACHELOR’S WIFE,
By M. FORREST
THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION,
p.y 11. Iv. BLOXIIAM
ROCKY SECTION,
By SYDNEY PARTRIGE
TOOLS OF SATAN,
By LANCELOT BOOTH
BASE BRANDS,
By 11. M. SOMER
BUSH
DELANEY
a
Price 1/- each
1/1 Posted.
These are oi\ly a few of the NINETY
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS in the “Bookstall”
Series. Write for a Complete Catalogue.
m
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
4-76 George Street,
i SYDNEY.
Pfji .^?,,,.u,ViriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiHiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiHiiiiiuiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Westinghouse
Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
Mftt*
Simplicity of detail.
Even turning moment.
Accessibility of all moving parts.
Minimum fuel consumption.
Low maintenance costs.
Absolute reliability.
Westinghouse Oil Engines are particularly suited for irrigation and
farm work, requiring no attention after starting up. Being fitted
with oil feed pump (of special construction and fuel atomiser,
ensures complete combustion of fuel mid high economy.
Westinghouse Gas Engines give highly satisfactory and economical
service in driving generators for small electric lighting installations,
industrial and agricultural machinery, etc., as proved by tire laige
number now operating in all parts of the world.
Send your enquiries to nearest office.
rstinoliousf
Manchgt^
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:-
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd*.
77, King Street. Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co.. Ltd.,
William Street. Perth.
Elder. Smith & Co.. Ltd.,
27 —31, Currie Street. Adelaide,
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd-.
84 —88, William Street. Melbourne.
m
A Revolution in TYRE-SIZING!
I INTIL now all millimeter Tyres have been made UNDERSIZED. By this we mean that all Tyres made in Europe,
U by ALL MAKERS, have measured and DO measure now much LESS than their claimed dimensions.
The Makers of GOODRICH TYRES hereby announce a revolution in that practice so far as 1 HEIR product is concerned.
Henceforth, all rubber-tread GOODRICH millimeter Tyres will measure up to the exact millimeters of Diameter, and
Cross-Section, specified by the sizes branded on them.
This makes every GOODRICH Tyre an “OVERSIZE” Tyre, when compared with every other millimeter Tyre in Europe.
No increase in price is charged for this tremendously IMPORTANT increase in size.
See following Announcements for RESULTS to Motor-Car Owners, who profit by this revolution in Tyre Capacity.
GOODRICH full-sized TYRES.
DUVAL CO.
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
300 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., ADELAIDE.
A. C. MacCALLUM, PERTH.
R. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


Will Uncle Sam smite with his dirty left
-his navy—and help knock out Hun sub-
frightfulness? The answer is ‘’Yes”
if inspired by that wise spirit King George
IV. top-notch Scotch. — Advt.
The speed-trial fixture recently held at Southport,
Queensland, has- created a very widespread interest
among motorists throughout the whole of Australia.
This took place during the Christmas holidays on
the 11-mile hard sandy beach within a few miles of
Brisbane, and the competitions held there resulted in
the establishment of entirely new records for motor-
car racing over various distances. All previous time
records went by the board, and not only all Aus-
but all other speed records for 4-mile and
mile sprints (except those made in the U.S.A. where
speed racing has become a fine art) were easily
broken. A quite remarkable feature about these
records is the fact that they were established on
practically stock model cars. A Studebaker Six
fitted with racing body and wheels and equipped with
Goodyear Cord Tyres, was driven by Mr. A. Jewell
over a J-mile course in 21 2-5 seconds and over a
mile course in 44 seconds even. The Overland Four,
and not a new car either, also fitted with speed body
and special wheels, likewise shod with Goodyear Cord
Tyres, made a close second by putting up 22 seconds
for the J-mile and 44 3-5 seconds for the one mile.
This ear also recently established a hill-climbing
record for the Mt. Cootha, Q., course, on both occa-
sions being driven by Mr. F. Z. Enger. Though
several makes of tyre3 were tried, in every instance
the fastest times were made on Goodyear Cord Tyres,
which are evidently suited to high speeds', and lose
least power on the road. The doings at this very
successful function will no doubt act as a stimulant
to motor, bodies in other parts of Australia and New
Zealand in the matter of conducting speed trials of
a similar nature. There must be in many parts of
this wide country suitable stretches of beach or
roadway which will allow fast driving without danger
to competitors or onlookers, and we expect at no
distant date to see announcements of some action
being taken. It is a far cry from a natural beach
to a banked and boarded Speedway, such as many
leading cities in America and Europe now boast, but
we have no doubt that ultimately some big structure
of this nature will be erected where motor speed-
contests will be held, to which competitors will flock
from all parts of Australasia.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
ever
This is Hiram Heavy set,
The saddest man I’ve
met,
He’s used that knife
’Most all his life
And hasn’t had a good shave
yet!
Important Information.
YOU can SCRAPE your face with any old razor. A
rapid, easy, clean shave—shaving- satisfaction—
requires a blade that shaves.
PENN BLADES are made scientifically right. Each blade,
made of Sheffield steel, is separately tempered, ground,
honed and tested—made to shave.
7/6
p
ENN
with 5 Blades
CAFETY
O That Shave
7/6
®£sa
Costs 7/6 complete. Positively gives REAL, shaves—shav-
ing satisfaction—or your 7/6 back. You can’t lose and you
CAN GET shaving satisfaction. Go right to your dealer
and get one—or, if he does not have it, send us 7/6 to-day.
We’ll send one.
A. C. PENN, Inc.,
420 George St.
SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
lime was when it seemed that the New-
market Handicap flutter would become an annual
picnic for flashy imported English horses. Sir Foote
ran away with it in 1902 after winning the curiouslv-
conditioned Futurity Stakes at Caulfield. In 1904
Playaway won the Futurity and ran third for the
flutter at Flemington; next year she won the New-
market, anti her stable companion, Lord Ullin’s
Daughter (also imported), followed her home. Since
then no imported horse has been placed in the New-
market, though four of them have captured the
Futurity. This year a very dangerous quartet of
English horses, weighted from Sst. 51b. to 9st. 21b.,
figure among the lot likely to fight it out with
Balarang down the Flemington straight. Whitefield,
llighfield and Polycrates have been backed more or
less, and Lavendo (9st. 21b.) is fairly in the market.
The Lavendo demonstration may be followed by the
backing of some deadly dark ’un in the same inter-
est, but at present it looks as though the winner of
last season’s. Caulfield Cup was a genuine stable fancy
for the coming event. Thus far his notable perform-
ances have been scored in 10- and 12-furlong races ;
lie has not been thought of as a flier that could be
expected to get away with the slickest. But before
his excellence was known to the world Lavendo did
win a couple of . six-furlong sprints from inferior
fields, and there is ijo knowing what he can’t do
when he isn’t suffering from lumbago, or whatever
else -the trouble may be that causes him to walk so
stiffly.
The Newmarket favorite Balarang is
working well. If this nag goes to the post as fit
as he was at Christmas when performing at Rand-
wiek, the reason for expecting him to be beaten will
not be' known to the writer of this paragraph. Any-
how, whatever beats Balarang will have to move at
a slick pace, for he left some very expeditious
animals astern at Randwick with remarkable ease. The
weight may trouble him, but he does not look like
a horse to be bothered much by that. The main
consideration is whether he will hop away quickly
enough. If he. neglects to do so this page may be
losing half a crown.
* * • #
The Oakleigh Plate, which happens at
Caulfield on Saturday, would have been particularly
interesting if Blue Bolt had. been having a go.
But owner Bennett relieved the V.A.T.C. of decid-
ing whether to follow the V.R.C., and scratched
his horse. There used to be a popular belief in
the ability of a smart young ’un to win the Oak-
leigh from older horses; for the 54 furlongs should
be rattled off bv a youngster that "has been able to
win a nursery handicap under heavier weight. But
this page is not so certain about the young-’un
theory this year. There are some slick old ’uns
to deal with. Much depends upon the start and
the position at the home turn. Still, on the pround
that the immature ought to do something Lost
Time may be a likely winner.
Of course, . Lingle is backed for the Austra-
lian Cup. . The son of Linacre is so handsome and
his owner is so intent on winning a big race with
him. And his weight (Bst. 31b.) is only 51b. more
than he carried into fourth place for the Melbourne
Cup. That gives Lingle a chance for the longer-
distance race. But it must be remembered that he
never showed up in the Melbourne Cup until a lot
of the horses were being eased. Lingle’s fourth place
was a good long way back, anyhow.
* * * *
The Sydney books have not been having
too good a season this year, and on Saturday at
Canterbury Park the public took coin out of the
bags after every race but one. When that race was
over there were few tickets offering. Challenge
Cross, Medley and Gai were solidly backed in a field
. .but the Linacre mare Blackacre was abso-
lutely friendless at 15’s and 20’s. A week before,
at Warwick farm, the lady bad been at the wrong
end. This time she came with a great run, and
Challenge Crosse was once more accommodated with
second money. Gai cut the contract in the last
furlong—and Mo rejoiced over a skinner. Heaven
knows some of. the tribe wanted it badly enough.
A few have given up business. Others are in a
parlous state. W hen the tote starts jingling the
casualties among the small fry will be heart-rending.
At Canterbury Park (N.S.W.) on Satur-
day the well-bred three-year-old Bernalda bounded
over six furlongs so speedily that she reached the
judge s box two lengths ahead of the next nag in
the Maiden Handicap. Bernalda had been endeavor-
ing for some considerable time to go faster than
other competitors, but until Saturday was bumping
snags. The young lddy is the pronerty of John Lee°
and when a yearling was purchased for 200 guineas.
Her dam, .Carbelle, gave to the world the good Vic-
torian animal Dame Quickly. Bernalda is in
Burton’s stable, and should be heard of again.
* * * *
Lady Isolt, a winner over six furlongs at
Tattersall’s meeting in December, who captured the
Stewards’ Mile at Canterburv Park (Sydney) on
Saturday, just got up in time to prevent ikev giving
loud, resounding cheers, for she started with the
public laying 5 to 4 on. Young Foley only "managed
to prevent the worst from happening in the last
stride. This mare may be heard of again if there
is not too much weight aboard. There is some rare
galloping blood in her. Her dam was Isolt, a
daughter of Multiform and Bellicent, the latter a
beautiful M.L. mare owned by G. G. Stead, from
Enid by Apremont-Idalia—and Idalia was the dam
of the great Sir Modred.
A speedy two-year-old won its first race
at Canterbury Park on Saturdav. This was Tatyoon
the property of Agav Wynne, one time Postmaster-
General of Australia, and W. Leonard, both of whom
live in Vic. Though there were 17 starters Tatyoon
was an odds-on favorite and careered past the judge
four lengths in front of Malt Maid, with the bit
between his teeth. Tatyoon was solidly backed in
the recent A..J.C. Phillip Stakes, but had no earthly
chance of showing his worth, owing to the dreadful
start in that event. Tatyoon is trained by Tom
Payten at Randwick, and judging by the speed dis-
played on Saturday he may be looked for in the
fighting line later on.
Racing in England is now cut down to
nothing, being allowed at Newmarket only. If this
state of affairs persists much longer it is fair to
count on the importation of numerous young horses
into Australia. A crop of yearlings will be coming-
on for which there can be nothing to do. Most of
thh two-year-olds will be eating their heads off.
And should the food shortage commence to be serious,
the consumption of oats by animals may be looked
on with a sour eye. The Australian-bred horse has
been having a hard struggle lately to keep in front
of strangers, and a few more shiploads are not likely
to make the job any easier. Of course the war has
made no difference to Australian racing yet, but
the chances that men will be rushing in to hand
over big wads for yearlings when peace arrives are
mighty remote.
* * * *
“El Gallo”: Tlie double tote has been
used by plenty more besides the Canterbury Jockey
Club, in Maoriland; but the biggest div. was paid
out by that club’s machine. This was when the
Star Rose-Captain Shannon combination won the
Cup and Stewards’ Handicap, paying over two
thousand lovely quid. Other big divs. were paid
by the Takapuna J.C. (over £900), and over
£7OO (twice) by the Auckland Racing Club.
“Trot’s” suggestion is right (B. l/2/’l7), and his
explanation of the withdrawal of the law allowing
double totes in M.L. is correct. The books obtain
a living (incidentally a fat one) in M.L. solely
through the absence of such a tote.
/‘Carfax”: A Sydney paper, disturbed by
the fact that the inside tote at Randwick is going to
have 40 pay-in windows and 30 pay-out orifices,
arrives at the conclusion that the “economic odds”
are with the machine. Of course they are, but not
because of the number of holes in it for handling
cash. There _ must be more people paying-in than
collecting dividends. If it was the other way about
racing would collapse in a day. As there are about
150 Bags receiving cash in the paddock at Randwick
on a race-day, something ought to be said now about
the “economic odds” prevailing in Israel.
* . * * *
“Merrigal”: Sam Meers, a fine tracker abd
bushman of the Martliaguy, threw in his bridle not
long ago. He was the first white born on the
Oastlereagh (N.S.W.), and was for years a partner
of that ding-dong stockman, Billy Ostler, in Dick’s
Camp, Collie, where young Sir Hercules, Warpaint
(half-brother of Trenton’s grand-dam, Flora Mclvor),
Brunswick (by Kelpie from Bouquet), and Ccerebus
fathered some of the best horses that ever carried a
shoe.
BERT SPARGO, Vic. Featherweight.
Nhill (Vic.) put up a record lately. It
had a race meeting, but no betting. Bookmakers
turned up, but refusing to pav an extra half-guinea
(making the paddock fee £1 11s. 6d..) they packed
up their props and left in a body. The sport
went on without them, but the seven events on
the programme averaged only two runners each.
Ready-money bettors unable to lose their money
were quite grumpy about it, and all opponents of the
tote went home converted.
* * * *
Herb McCoy and Englishman Llew
Edwards 'foree-athered for the fifth time on Satur-
day at Sydney Stadium. There was not much doubt
as to who was master. There is none now.
Edwards is too good for Herbert, and impressed the
tact upon him with great frequency. What hap-
pened can be boiled down to this—that the
Australian got a real good hiding. At times he
sparkled up and did well; but Edwards was after
him all the time on a pair of firmlv-planted,
resolute feet, carrying a wallop in either' fist that
always had the shoulder behind, it. Edwards
fought a hard, purposeful battle and half-way
through McCoy was badly beaten. Yet the end did
not transpire till the eighteenth clash. A left to the
body shook the Victorian to his heels and a right to
the jaw would have finished the matter if another
quick left had not followed for luck.
* * * *
The hopes of Sid Godfrey (N.S.W.) about
annexing the featherweight championship of the
Commonwealth failed to survive an argument with
Bert Spargo at' Melbourne on Saturday. Godfrev
was a worried youth all through, frequent jabs
m the pantry giving rise to a severe attack of.
pessimism. He boxed well, but not hard enough.
Spargo carried too much pep. altogether and
handed it out with either hand. They finished in
the fourteenth round, the Victorian passing ' over
one to midships. The winner, who appears to fight
better in Melbourne than in Sydnev, can now claim
the championship and hang on to'it until someone
tears it away, leaving only memory and bruises
behind.
* * * *
Freddy Enck, of America, pursued a
“watchful waiting” policy for 12 rounds of his
scrap with Hector Melville 'at Brisbane on Satur-
day He took every variety of wallop from Hector
without turning a hair. After this nonsense had
proceeded far enough, Frederic adopted vigorous
measures and settled his opponent in three more
rounds. The crowd, cheerfully inconsistent, had
been hurling jests at the imported article which
it had crowded to see. It reckoned he didn’t know
anything about fighting. Afterwards it pushed off
quickly before anyone found out it had been making
a fool of itself.
* • * . ' * *
There was a whiff of olden days in the
labors of Hansen Carter for Waverley against Sydney
University on Saturday. With the bat he smote 53
(run out) of a total of 113, and behind the sticks
made a catch in addition to permitting only one
Varsity’s 165. Carter wore the gloves with
the 02 and 'O9 Australian Xl’s in England, but
dropped out of “big” cricket when the Board of
Control undertook the management of over-sea
journeyings. The form of many .youthful stick-
keepers has evidently given Carter a prod.
Clarrie Hogue, who did the hat-trick
on Saturday by clean bowling three Middle Harbor
wickets m the first-grade match against North
Sydney, is a son of Jimmy, ex-Minister for Educa-
tion in N. S. Wales. Two brothers are at the
Dront, one being “Trooper Bluegum,” writer of
much good war stuff.
* * * *
“Out” in Melbourne, at the age of 68,
Frank Allan, “the bowler of a century.” Until a
lew months back he bossed the Vermin Destruction
Branch of the Vic. Lands Department'; but cricket
was always his chief interest. Twenty years ago
he had to give up playing the game and take to
bowls, but up to the end he talked, thought,
dreamed and wrote about cricket. He was in the
first Australian Eleven, which went to England
in 18(8. In a match against Noo South next
year he took eight wickets for 20 runs. Grace
reckoned that Allan was one of the best bowlers
he had ever stood up to. In inter-State matches
Allan took /3 wickets at an average cost of 10.26
™ ns > °h e °f his most remarkable exploits being
the bowling of seven successive maidens to H. 11.
Massie, who was among the Ma State’s finest bats-
men. Harry, one of Frank Allan’s sons, has a, Mel-
bourne reputation as a cricketer and baseballer.
* * * *
“Bails”: Frank Allan, “the bowler of a
century,” was a native of Allansford, near Warr-
nanibool (Vic.), and as a boy was much with the
aboriginals on or near his father’s squattage. From
them he learned to throw the boomerang, and to
that fact he always attributed the devil in his bowl-
ing.
* * * *
Hundred or So” : Allan bowled the first
ball in that famous match against the M.C.0.;
and as the betting was 4 to 1 against the
colonials, ’ a loud laugh struck the atmosphere
when Grace smacked him away for 4. When the
next delivery from Allan started the multitude
prepared to laugh some more. But when the ball
fell where Alec Bannerman’s hands happened to
be, the 'grins were promptly removed. Spof. and
Boyle completed the massacre.
* * * *
The cricket ball used in the great M.C.C
match of ’7B, after capturing £7OO for patriotic
funds, has been accepted by the trustees of the
Melbourne National Gallery after a severe mental
struggle. The trustees can only accept gifts of
historical interest” or works of art, and they
have persuaded themselves that the piece of leather
possesses “historical interest.” Before the ’7B
match at Lords English critics made humorous
forecasts about the size of the drubbing the cheeky
colonials were, going to endure. The wicket was
affected by rain and the four innings were over in
a day. At the last knock, the M.C.C. had 23 to
get to tie. Just-dead Frank Allan disposed of
Grace for four, and Spofforth and Boyle had dis-
missed the rest when the score showed 19. Aus-
tralian cricket became famous from that day.
Blackham pounced on the ball which bowled the
last Englishman and has kept it nearly 40 years.
Now it becomes a National Relic.
The famous ’7B team which astonished
England by defeating a picked English team at
Lords in one day consisted of Dave Gregory, two
Bannermans, Spofforth, Garrett and Murdoch
(N.S.W.), Allan (who died last week), Bovle,
Blackham, Bailey, Horan and Midwinter (Via)-
P. R. Le Couteur, in making 133 for
Melbourne University against East whilst on vaca-
tion from Perth lately, showed some of the cricket
which helped to win him the Rhodes scholarship
for Vic. in 1908. Le Couteur was undoubtedly
the most successful to date of all Vic. Rhodes
scholars in Fogland as far as cricket is con-
cerned. He. quickly caught the selectors’ eve at
Oxford, scoring 50 for that Uni. against Surrey.
In 1910, established in the Oxford v. Cambridge
match, he was responsible for the best all-round
performance ever recorded at this fixture, knocking
up 160 in under 31 hours and capturing six
wickets for 20 and five for 46 runs. For Gentle-
men against Players he headed both batting and
bowling figures for the match, scored 73 runs in
65 minutes against M.C.C. at Lords, and cap-
tured 10 Kent wickets for 42. A batsmen with a
hard drive and a late cut and a “googlie” bowler,
Le. Couteur was knocking hard on the inter-State
cricket door when he left for England.
* * # *
“F.M.C.”: Tom Sullivan and his son (a
fine fellow 6ft. high and weighing 13st.) are cer-
tainly prisoners in Germany, as mentioned by The
Bulletin, and, as I know them both well, I’ll tell
you how it came about. Tom, sen., kept a pub
at Putney (London) and, incidentally, trained oars-
men, including Barry. He gave that up and with
young Tom went to Germany to teach athletics.
They were there when the war-dogs were slipped,
and of course were interned. Mrs. Sullivan, who was
with her husband, was subsequently released.
This year the old sports who ran the
Anniversary Regatta on Sydney Harbor had a
special object, in keeping the fixture going.
Through the sinking of some quaint old waterside
annual in England, the Anniversary frolic is now
the hoariest aquatic event in the world, and those
in charge thought it worth a bit to keep the dis-
tinction.
* * * *
“J.G.”: Parts of Port Phillip Bay are
teeming with schnapper. But fishermen are curs-
ing, because most ot the fish are an ounce or two
underweight and have to be thrown back into the
sea. Tet every fisherman knows as well as the In-
spector that practically all the throw-backs die
miserably, as they have their throats and gills torn
j or ® the hook can be extracted. As all kinds
or rood, including even rabbit, is soaring sky-high
in price, why not let these good fish go into con-
sumption, instead of donating them to the sharks?
r,. , a . very hungry world now, and even the
Vm. fisheries Act may be boiled in oil and eaten if
it insists on snatching fresh food from the man in
tlie boat and wasting it.
“Float”: Victorian Fisheries Department
lias secured 5200 small Macquarie perch, or Murray
oi earn, from the Goulburn weir. Four thousand of
them have been liberated in the Yarra, others in
JJeep Creek at Romsey, Sunday Creek at Broadford,
Boosey Creek at Tungamah, and Wannon River at
oii mi C t 0 Good catches of fish between 21b. and
dlb. have been made from some small fry liberated
/ ear ln the Yarra. Incidentally imported trout
at Moorabool weir have cheered up anglers. A
1391 b rOC * S °^ er landed 55. weighing
* * * *
“R.S.”: Tickling trout is an offence in
the eyes of the law, but it is mild sport compared
with jagging,” for which a barbarian was fined
on two charges at the Murchison (Vic.)
Police Court the other day. This vandal had
been fined before for illegal methods at the Wav-
anga Outlet, where fine fish abound. Jagging con-
sists of casting out a line to the end of which a
bunch of largish hooks has been attached. By
drawing in rapidly any fish in close proximity will
be j'agged in more ways than one. It is the
injury done, to fish that are not caught that
makes, the jagger worse than the dynamiter and
fish-poisoner, and he is just as hard to detect. lie
generally carries on his nefarious work in the
close season, too.
* * * *
There was much grumbling this year
amongst the “sports” who turned out to slaughter
black swans at Moulting Lagoon, near Swansea (Tas.),
on Feb. 1, the opening day of the season. Ninety
guns killed only 110 amongst them instead of
between 400 and 500 as usual. It was too dull a
shambles alogether.
* * •* *
The duck-butchery season opens in N. S.
Wales a fortnight earlier than in the more civil-
ised Southern State. The Ma State gunners have a
further pull on the Victorian, as they, can shoot
till the available black-duck species is wiped out.
Under the Vic. law the slaughterman’s bag is
limited to 30 birds, or a few more if it’s quail
or smaller feathered targets. The wisdom of
restricting the number of victims to eacli gunner
is again shown by recent “bags” at Eehuca, on the
N.S.W. and Vie. border. One party got 470 birds.
This waste of good poultry is called “sport.”
* * *
“Artists’ Corps”: The walk of the London
Scottish from London to Brighton (B. 25/l/’l7) at
first sight doesn’t seem much of a performance. • But
the 100 kilties travelled in full-kit marching order
and were the only crowd that kept their numbers
right through. With the “Artists,” I attempted the
same feat, but we lost 20 per cent, of our strength.
Hands Cross Hill settled many and the hill at Craw-
ley others. The London Scottish have long been
reputed the most athletic body of volunteers in the
Empire, and kept their end up in the Olympic
Games last held in England. And when it came
to fighting they performed like champions again.
* * * *
The Vic. Amateur Athletic Assoc, has
planked both feet down and will not sanction any
event until the big contest on the West Front is
decided. Meantime tlie artful pro. is chasing the
quids at Gurney’s running-grounds at Flemington,
where Ikey Mo yells the. odds and the schemers can
catch 50 of the best in a heat. Professional • peds
are better off to-day than they have been for many
years. But the sport is entirely dependent on the
betting, and the moment Ikey is stopped the game
or whatever it is will give up the ghost.
* * * *
Ford, maker of motor-cars and instigator
of the peace mission to Europe, was the first man
on the doormat of the U.S. War Offce with an offer
of the use of his factories, without profit, for war
work. Being in the habit of turning out mechanical
cockroaches by the million, he had a large-sized sug-
gestion to make. He declared that he was prepared
to turn out submersibles 20 feet long, and capable
of being operated by one man, at the rate of a
thousand a day. Apparently Ford has altered his
opinion about the best way to speed up Peace.


ARE YOU ABLE TO PROPERLY
&
DEFEND YOURSELF?
Suppose, for instance, some fellow insulted you, what would be your
position ?
Would vou have to suffer such an insult to go unavenged, and so lose
your prestige—your m uiliness in the eyes of your fellows—or would you
be able to deliver a s >und thrashing to the man who endeavors to belittle
you in the eyes of your fellow-men?
There are time in every man’s life when he has occasion to defend
himself. Are you prepared for such emergencies? Then why not let me
teach you the noble art of self-defence?
I Teach Boxing by Post.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the moves of the world's
best boxers.
You .now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability—of making good use of the means
Nature gave you for protecting yourself. You will
surely be fair to yourself and learn Scientific Boxing
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. Send three penny stamps for postage.
Just write your name and address across this advt.
and send it to me. I will know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
580 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
THESE ARE MY
Cigarillos
m
—the little cigars I
to try. They are
three sizes, but
QUALITY.
want you
made in
only one
Their flavor, quality
and aroma are the
same as you get in
shilling Havanas.
Send for a trial lot.
You are sure to
enjoy them.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/6 2/3 2/-
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11/- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
If you are a
smoker, don’t
fail to write
for a copy of
my Illustrated
Catalogue. It
is sure to
Actual Size of Cigarillos. interest you.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Legal Notice.
IN the Matter of the Estate of SARAH
GILCHRIST, late of Sydney, deceased.
Intestate.
The next of kin of the above-named
deceased are requested to communicate with
the undersigned stating full particulars of
relationship claimed.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“iSHELL
"Keep Smiling .*
In other words .*
i
O BTAI NABL
EVERYWHEB
E
E
Ofe-
Find the Wonder Places
—the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track Go touring on
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue " D " with Pleasure,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
PATOU
00.33
Wanted.
Wanted Lady Home Workers.
£ WEEKLY may be earned in spare time. Dainty
work, easily mastered at home from our simple
instruction. No matter where you live you can take
advantage of our special offer, which is open for a
limited time only. Send three stamps for booklet
giving full details. TORCHON LACE CO., 229
Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Highest Standard
of footwear excellence is fully upheld in
every pair of
RIGNEY SHOES.
In QUALITY, STYLE, PRICE, WEAR
and every detail, Rigney Shoes are sure to
give entire satisfaction.
We illustrate a choice All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manshij) are alike “perfect.”
The famous Paris Last.
Price - - 37/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
„ “The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
gs&
r
as
■A '
m
' - ;
SSe
mm
7-E
vir-
r@i
v'Vi
CSP
.
■- ■
W>M
K| a
*s*sB
gwßßj
£
s» r &&&&&&*,&«
itfSfci
.*• :* *• •?
r
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
Wasting Disorders
Price 26 bottle
TRE YOU
ON THE ROLL
>!\
Supplied
in rolls
72 feet
long and
3 feet
wide,
with
sufficient
nails for
the job.
Also
investigate
Certain-teed
Wall Board
and
Dampcourse
\
*
Certain-teed Roofing
GIVES YOU
A CHEAPER ROOF,
A RELIABLE ROOF,
A DURABLE ROOF,
And You Can Fix it Yourself, or Your
Handy Man can.
Certain-teed Roofing is NOT an “ex-
periment”—it is an established fact.
IT IS AS GOOD FOR THE HOUSE
AS IT IS FOR THE POULTRY-
SHED OR COW BAILS.
It is a real strong weather-resister.
It will not crack or blister with heat, it
will not perish with rain. It is, in fact,
absolutely weather-proof and water-tight.
In fact, there is no fault that we know
of in Certain-teed Roofing, and we recom-
mend it for any roof that needs covering
or re-covering.
If unprocurable from you local store
write us direct for samples and prices.
Roofing
Local Distributors :
DANKS,
Otherwise John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool
Street, Sydney,
391 Bourke Street, Melbourne,


How I Darkened My
Grey Hair.
Lady Gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years I tried to restore my grey liair
to its natural color with the prepared dyes
and stains, but none of them gave satisfac-
tion and they were all expensive. I finally
came across a simple recipe which I mixed
at home that gives wonderful results. I
gave the recipe, which is as follows, to a
number of my friends, and they are all
delighted with it. To 7oz. of water add a
small box of Orlex Compound and loz. of
bay rum. These ingredients can be bought
at any chemist’s at very little cost. IJse
every other day until the hair becomes the
required shade. It will not only darken
the grey hair but removes dandruff and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not sticky or
the Sf’alp—Aovt * [5
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
CHRIST!
,SP£CIAUS£
TWO
L/A/ES
$
#
0 s
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
The STRAND
mm
is m
mm
mm
m
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
K AWITER S T NEWCASTLE
m
Clean Hair
Always
Try this plan every other
night sprinkle a little Icilma
Hair Powder over your hair.
Leave on till morning—then
vigorously brush it out again.
This will make and keep your
hair attractive. The dust and
grease will be removed and you
will begin afresh every other
morning with bright, clean hair.
Note.— The hair should still be
washed at regular intervals,
because a certain amount of
wetting is good for the hair.
IdQ
Hair Powder
The British-made Dry Shampoo.
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. Gambles & Co., Agents,
j , Commerce House, Melbourne.
A H. 3.
Yaidleys
Shaving Stick
The Stick mthe Glass Case
TO
4 V
to Lin*
FOR REAL
SHAVING
COMFORT
Gives Ease and Speed in
Shaving. The ointment-like
lather is all working —it lies flat
on the face, .soothing the skin,
lubricating the razor and soften-
ing the beard. Being Yardley’s
the perfume too is jnst right.
Made in England by
t
S NEW BOND STREET, LONDON.
m
i?.
is.
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
conies into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
_ evidence. So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new Bostock styles
for the season, since these are more captivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent' leather, made in
that new, short-frontet! French shape which
makes every foot look so arched and delightful,
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling finish
to one's new walking suit or gown. And it is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable.
Bostock styles now. on view at the leading stores;
Bostoek No.
Q 9583
y/
K
V
Norio genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the name “Bostock’’ on the soles.
830
mm
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
ALWAYS SHINY and BRIGHT!-
That’s so. Your boots will always be shiny and brisrht if you polish them with
ROSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSING.
It can be had in Paste or Cream, 6(1. and 1 /-. Sold hverywhere.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, and White.
BOSTOCIC’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
fiuj I^s
la«K.
£ anno
Cleats [
ILegula
Brifcijh.
elf
tore
The North Coast Steak Navigation
Co (N.S.W.) :
Unexplained
Busi- Additions Written
ness to Re- off Re- Re-
Dec., Profits, serves. Dividends. serves, serves.
1906. . £15,206 £2500 Bp.c. = £13,750 —£56,630
1907.. 17,574 8 „ „ 17,016 £7Ol 66,487
1908.. 15,198 5282 S „ „ 17,500 59,467
1909.. 18,334 1858 8 „ „ 17,500 62,159
1910.. 17,903 4013 8 „ „ 17,500 66,575
1911.. 20,710 8 „ „ 18,629 3245 65,411
1912.. 24,762 2789 8 „ „ 23,420 69,542
1913.. 27,707 4460 9 „„ 27,000 74,715
1914.. 27,234 1953 9 ~ „ 27,000 76,902
1915. . 25,644 2165 9 ~ „ 27,000 —• 77,711
1916.. 27,516 4098 9 „ ~ 27,000 82,325
The reserves are made up this way: Insur-
ance and repairs fund, etc., £(>S.33l (£4098
added during tlie year) ; equalisation of
dividend fund, £13,478 ; balance available for
equalisation fund, £5lO. It is impossible
to say whether all or any of the money
added to the insurance and repairs fund is
true profit. Probably the management hopes
that a good deal of it will be : it depends to
some extent on the luck the co. has with
whatever "risks the insurance fund covers.
For some years past the luck appears to
have been good. Take as a basis this
comparison :
1905. 1915. 1916.
Capital .. ..£159,228 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. .. 33,356 28,631 20,626
BP,ips . . . . 184,730 248,979 232,170
Wharves, works, etc. 25,765 26,809 26,868
Cash and hook debts 32,435 79,564 67,261
Sundry assets .. . 7,871 64,491 . 90,152
In those 11 years the co. has got in
£.140,772 of capital, and it now has £l3O 293
more assets (net) apart from ships and
wharves and works. How much it has actu-
ally put into shins, wharves, etc., this paper
cannot say. The assets are now earning
an average of about £26,000 a year as
against an average of about £16,000 10 or
12 years ago, and that looks as though the
additions have been very substantial. The
“other assets” mentioned in the table con-
sist partly of coal and stores but mostly of
unspecified items (£<1,772) ; and that
doesn’t give investors much enlightenment.
All that one can say for certain is that,
after providing for all additions to fleet,
wharves and works, in 11 years £130,293
net assets have been accumulated. Ifi other
words, though during that period £140,772
of new capital lias been got in, all but
£30,479 of the added book value of the ships,
wharves, etc., has been provided out of
profits in excess of the dividend. And pro-
spects are good; for, though expenses are
much higher, there is perhaps no part of
N. _B. Wales where the settlers are more
solidly prosperous and the increases more
easily passed on.
Manly Gas Co. (N. S. Wales)
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1906 .. £1638 9 p.c. =£1498 £l4O £2,018
1907 .. 1909 9 „ „ 1639 330 2,348
1908 . . 2454 9* ~ „ 1964 490 2,838
1909 .. 2273 10 ~ „ 2566 2,545
Premiums on new shares .. 1054 3,599
1910 .. 3219 10 p.c. = 3195 24 3,623
1911 .. 4076 10 „ „ 3816 260 3,883
1912 . . 6350 10 ~ 4247 2103 5,986
Assets written up, £8093 .. .. 14,079
Bonus of £9150 (20 p.c.) distributed.. 4,929
Reserves disappeared, £-3790 .. 1,139
1913 .. 6169 10 p.c. = 5599 570 1,709
1914 .. 6167 10 „ „ 6375 1,501
1915 .. 6481 8 „ „ 5100 1381 '2,882
1916 .. 5626 7 „ ~ 4462 1104 4,046
This co. continues to turn out the light when
the time comes to show its figures. Its
I’rofit and Loss account is a mere statement
that the total revenue is so much and the
total outgoings, including “manufacture, dis-
tribution of gas, rents, rates and taxes,
renewals, reserve, management, etc.,” so
much. Under the Gas Act passed three or
foui' years ago two or three N. S. Wales c-os.
must present their accounts in a prescribed
form. For some obscure reason or no reason
at all this one was exempted. Hence it may
he-stuffing profit away, employing it in pay-
ing for extensions, or, on the other hand, it
may be writing off too little to cover depre-
ciation. In the one case its profits would
be understated and in the other overstated.
It says itself that the coal strike and a new
wages award have cut down profits so that
“the directors have no alternative but to
reduce the dividend for the six months to
December 31 to 3 p.c.,” making. 7 p.c. for
the year. But as some internal reserves
were capitalised a few years ago (that is to
say, some profits which had, not been dis-
closed) the return is still really more than
7 p.c.—about 8i- p.c., in fact. So far as the
balance-sheet figures are worth anything,
here is their tale for 11 years:—
1905. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Capital.. ..£15,000 £37,475 £63,750 £63,750
Liabilities . . 4,141 5,680 17,924 21,370
Fixed assets . . 19,598 44,094 82,359 87,941
Other assets . . 1,272 4,346 4,746 3 J 36
Sales of gas, etc. 5,246 11,956 23,193 24,221
Since 1913 the income has increased by
about one-third; and it will, on present
appearances, continue to grow, for the co.’s
field is a large and surely progressive one.
The liabilities are mostly what are described
as “loan capital,” which is as vague as the
rest of these totally unsatisfactory accounts.
* * *
Round Jlill (Tas.) has to make a call of
sixpence to finish installing the machinery.
The original estimate was £10,500; already
about £13,000 has been spent. The late
floods burst the dam and washed an engine
which was being carted to the mine into'the
bed of the creek. It all means a delay of a
couple of month’s.
From a digger at Lakekamu, in the
innards of Papua :
There is a certain, amount of osmiridium in Lake-
kamu gold; and although there is a common idea
that it is twice-as valuable as gold itself, we get
nothing for it, whereas we do get returns for any
silver contents. There seems something wrong here.
“Platman” : The N. S. Wales Mines Dept,
could with advantage follow the example of
Queensland and publish a monthly Mining
.Tournat, for the guidance of prospectors and
the public generally. It is only when one
crosses the border that one realises how
valuable the Queensland Journal is.


ft
fDiere is a
pface in j/our
home for the
BEALE
KALOPHQNE
'Xhe Instrument - -
that recreates the
best music in the-
best svau. c Hecir
one at our showrooms
Sty/i
X II //. /
§ I
XX il MU
v ml 1 *«W
Ii ! i'/il® 1 €4
111
I
\WV 9*i.
m
l
U
///T^
%
A
X
m
a
■ssk
tf:
m
%‘W’lVt*
rt«¥WVVI'l
m
m
Vi
>y t ,1
i— w \y' ~
.iM 11'lift lII' IllU •, 111: 1 ". 1 iH'DIIl 1 '
'f/r
M
Mini
\\V'»w "".
ilfli f I lii tiltJta LJI )l I U!l I >
Uni'
m /j
tSuft®
iiiimwip!!iHimiui!iii|iTO^!|il|^U^)^!{i;|!! i l{|{
null
3$
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
l^eale
G'fi?
Factories:
1-47 TRAFALGAR STREET
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY
And at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. V.ctoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.. Hobart.
Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John Evans Ltd. Adelaide. Queensland : 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane/ Kent Street. Maryborough.
Flinders Street, Townsville. Rockhampton Sydney Street, Mackay. Cairns.


m
m
The least
exertion,
whether.
it be
work or
p 1 e a s u re,
seems t o
quickly tire
you out and
makes you
feel weak
and languid.
This means
that both
your mental
and physical
vitality is
, , . low. It may
be caused by too much work,
worry or pleasure, but a course
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE
The Great Nerve Tonic
quickly restores the system to
its normal condition, and gives
you the vim and vigor necessary
to enjoy both work and pleasure.
In cases of Indigestion, Back-
ache, Malaria, Headache, Brain-
fag, Nervousness and Muscular
Rheumatism Fisher's Phos-
pherine is the remedy which for
forty years has been unequalled.
All Chemists and Stores, 1/- per
bottle. Four times the quantity,
2/6.
Chemists,
337 GEORGE-ST RE FT, SYDNEY,
N.S.W. F.149.P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
. dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many timea aa efficient
. . . . a nd powerful as the old
model Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
ad]uatn»sn.s, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 GO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
A simple, old-fashioned, home-made recipe will
make the greyness disappear.
G-rey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often downright injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless
manner. You have only to get two ounces
of tammalite concentrate from your chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum to
prove this. Apply this simple and harmless
lotion for a few nights to the hair with a
small sponge and the greyness will gradually
disappear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy, and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in posses-
sion of the formula.— Advt.
,GOITREs
A father wriies thus of Doig’s Goitre
Treatment:—“The boy that went under
your treatment was completely cured
after taking two lots only, and has not
had a return of the trouble.”
Doig’s Goitre Treatment has
over 3000 successes to its credit—and
seldom fails i o reduce the swelling with-
in two or three weeks, usually restoring
the neck to its normal graceful lines
within a few months. Easy to take.
Full information Free on application tg
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD.
Manufacturing Chemists
197 P Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Bankers: Bank of N.Z.
I
SI
m
m
m
A STOCKWHIP
TO BE PROUD OF
One of Hodgson’s Make.
These Splendid Whips are All
Kangaroo. No sheepskin or inferior
leather used inside them.
LIFE-LIKE FALL.
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft, 10ft.
12 plait 10/6 12/6 13/6 15/6 18(6
16 plait 13/6 15/6 17/- 18/6 20/.
20 plait 16/6 18/6 20/- 21/6 22/6
Plaited Handles to Match.
16 plait, 12/6; 20 plait, 14/6;
32 plait, 16/6.
POST FREE FOR CASH.
SEND FOR CATALOG OF SADDLERY.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
393 George St.
32 Hunter St.
Sydney
eautLf
n
&
'j
THE SECRET OF A
GOOD COMPLEXION.
By MME. ST. CLAIRE.
Any woman nowadays may quickly reju-
venate her complexion at home by a safe and
painless process of gentle absorption. The
days of expensive and dangerous “operations”
are past, and each woman can be her own
beauty doctor. It has been discovered that
ordinary mercolised wax. applied like cold
cream, at night, will cause the thin veil of
lifeless, sallow or blotchy cuticle to gradually
and gently flake off in invisible, flour-like
particles, revealing the fresh, vigorous and
beautiful young skin underneath. Mercolised
wax absorbs only the unhealthy and un-
sightly outer film, and does not affect the
healthy tissue at all.
The process defies detection, and unveils
a lasting and beautiful complexion, which *««,
of course, a perfectly natural one. For tnis
purpose thousands of women are now using
mercolised wax, which may be obtained at
any chemist's. Naturally the process also
removes all such surface blemishes as
freckles, blotches, pimples, tan, liver spots,
etc. It makes the face look years younger
and prettier, and renders the use of face
creams unnecessary.
Another valuable piece of information,
which many women will appreciate, concerns
the success of the new treatment for super-
fluous hair. A remedy for permanently erad-
icating this ugly form of facial disfigurement
now seems to have been found. It is simpli-
city itself. About one ounce of ordinary pure
powdered pheminol, which can be obtained
at any chemist’s, is all that is heeded to put
one in the way of completely ridding oneself
of superfluous hair. When applied to the
obsoxious growth this causes it to immedi-
ately disappear, and the continuance of the
recommended treatment is said to finally
destroy the hair roots, so that there will be
no renewal of the growth. 15
DINNEFORD’sI
Magnesia J
DINNEFORD'S
important;
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’B”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
m
m
Give your patronage to British
Hosiery —made from Austra-
lasian Wool
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
No other make has so fine a finish—
Jason has a texture like silk, and surprising
comfort to the skin —yet costs less than
many inferior brands.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all.wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the
Jason Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters
everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
Jason Underwear Co,, Leicester, Eng.
Aa6s c|p
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
P. 8.: Alas, the violets that little Johnny
didn’t smell like are very, very faded. .. .A.C.W.W.:
I? it was told by his Reverence as original he was
vastly mistaken.... 0.M.: Well, hunt up the “im-
partial journal” and make it tired... .F.S.S.: Never
mind about calling her the “maid” .16 times in as
many lines; call her a girl and get to work and
write what you have to say about her. P.S. —-On
second thoughts don’t. Paper is valuable.... Half
Moon: You ought to have something better to send
us from there. .. .National Service League (Master-
ton): Received; good work... .Peros: Everything
that Tub Bulletin publishes it wants to pay for.
Send your pars, along. Then, when they are
printed, send your claim to the Accountant. .. .
Ignoramus: (1) Yes, also ran; (2) can’t undertake
to acknowledge pars; (3) if you can’t understand the
meaning of that line get along with it to night-
school. . . .P.R.M.: Without force or originality... .
A.J.T.: “The Mob” doesn’t g 0... .R.P.: Common-
place wail... .P.L.F.: Take out the 14 damns, and
what is left?... .E.C.: One line throws the witch
verse mad in each stanza Wowza: Wanted better
handling. .. .Koohee: Wooden stuff; but what is to
be expected of a writer who talks about things
being “dignified by the usual colonial appellation” ?
B.F.: Not our style... .Mulligan Kid: Too thin.
. ...R.A.: Noisy demand for “A Man” is not verse.
. ...V.L.S.: “Bent trees” rather machine-made. To
make plain insanity humorous requires a lot of
skill... .N.G.: Mere echo of something else... .Le
Noy: Very lame stuff T.C.0.: Not Bulletin stuff.
G.D.M.: Started well, but lost itself early....
Kuna-Bak: Dull all right.... X.: Story begins well,
but lacks force... . U.C.: Don’t care whether you wrote
it in Ballarat or in Pekin. It's poor stuff and bumps
horribly... .F.8.Q.: General information about the
mosquito noted. Glad to know that he is more
plentiful in summer than in winter... .R.S.: Get
the bumps out of your lines J.G.: “The Whigfit
Feather” has a gaiety about it that goes right to
the soul:—
Will you be an anzac or a Pankhurst bold
And see your brother slayen while your feet are get-
ting cold?
I would like to be an anzac but my Pankhurst will
» not yield,
So I must revel in the pleasures while my brother
takes the field.
.... Anglo-Australian; Labored prose cut into uneven
and meaningless lengths does not make verse....
R.M.: Not quite; but keep on. . . .Mallee Hen: They
won’t do. You’ll have to put work and thought into
your stuff.... Rosella: What a pity the pipe was
handy! A man who soliloquised in that sort of
jerky, verse would never have been missed... .Chips:
Not up W.H.G.: Fitzgerald's “Omar” is respon-
sible for a lot. The dullest verse we have ever read
was in his eas.y stanza. .. .Pup: No, we wouldn’t
publish it. It is mad enough, but not clever enough.
. ...K.K.: Not for us... .R.S.A.: Yarn doesn’t con-
vince. ~ .E.L.S.: Billjim starts rather badly, but by
the third stanza he is talking like a Hebrew patriot
reciting “Christmas Day in the Workhouse”
H.M.: Moderately true, but it’s an old sermon and
dull. ... J. W.H.: That sort of humor has been work-
ing overtime for 40 3 r ears. .. .S.L.: You have a man-
ner all your own :
Two dark specks in azure blue are seen—
A German Zep. and English ’plane serene.
They hover round as dogs do spoiling for a fight;
They dart and swoop; then the English ’plane with
huge delight
Flies o’er the Zep. and drops a bomb right down
That scares Fritz-hans a treat, and makes him frown.
They both then draw machine-guns all readv loaded,
A crack roars out and then the Zep. exploded 1
J.M.: Not up De L.: Mud P.J.F.: You
won’t honor Australia with that kind of verse....
C.T.: Not up....Nym: Not enough care. .. .E.G.:
Too many lines that are only there for the sake of
a rhyme. .. .S.S.M.: Eleven typewritten pages to say
a girl whom you didn’t know had failed to keep an
appointment with a man you had seen only once. ...
18 P.Q.F.: Wants better treatment... .A.W.A.: Feeble
sort of .veil.... Expeditionary: Commonplace....
C.A.G.: No use whatever E.F.K.: Fairly correct
verse with no lift or originality in it 11.0. C.:
Even though you make every word rhyme instead of
every second one there isn’t enough in it. .. .0.M.M.:
An old theme not too well handled 8.N.J.: We
haven't any “tender mercies” for sloppy prose pre-
tending to be verse 11.5.: Dull doggerel
Champion: You must have the feelings of an alli-
gator to describe the use of bayonets as great “fun.”
....Cape Helles: Nearly; but nothing fresh in it.
Trumpeter Dick: No use J.G.: Verse pretty
bad and themes very old T.T.: The yarn is older
than y0u.... No Name: “Mister Sun” is lame busi-
ness. .. .J.P.K.: It lumbers along in an attempt to
repeat what the cables said without detail or color.
... .V.M.K.; No merit at all. .. .C.M.L.: You can’t
succeed By merely taking another man's work and
building some new words around it. .. .Na Pu: Little
things like that must be finely done... .N.Y.: Good
for your age M.: No G.A.H.L.: Hopeless
Maginnis Magee: AVe don’t reprint; and that stuff's
too poor to print even at first hand... .J.G. J. :
There’s a wild simplicity about it that goes straight
to the heart J.H.: Dreary... .You Youth: Verv
lame attempts.... Torpy: No use at all.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.E.: Good for her years, but copying isn’t a test.
... .N.H.McG.: Unable to use it... .R.W.C.: Home-
ward bound.... R.P.: First attempts nearly always
fail.... Ray AV.: Some points about it, but the
flapper’s right arm is all wrong.... Roderigo: Front
N.Y. Life, isn’t it?....R.L.: Not worth while.. A
Carkee: Printed about two years ago. .. . Mervyn R.:
You are young. Try to forget the horrible method
you’ve invented.
“Murltah”: Why can't the N. S. Wales
railways light their carriages with electricity
instead of the dim, leaking, stinking, flicker-
ing gas? With electricity the first cost, of
installation, is practically the last. The
motive power is got for nothing, a belt from
one of the carriage axles being used to run a
small dynamo. The current from this
charges a set of accumulators, from which a
steady, constant light is obtained. The only
attention then needed is a drop of distilled
Av..ter in the accumulators every month or
so, and an occasional squirt of oil on the
bearings of the dynamo. Further, the
current can also be used to whirl fans, a
fragment of civilisation not yet known in
the Ma State. If some improvement isn’t
made soon I'm going to. buy a storm-lantern
and hang it on the hatrack.


FIRST AID TO INJURED TYRES
A very small percentage of the tyres that go out of service blow out on the road.
Vet everyone who drives a 1 wavs has a lurking fear of tvre trouble. The Goodyear Tvre-Saver Kit
J - j
dispels that fear.
With this kit in your car, you know you are ready lor anv tyre emergency. It gives you complete
first aid in case of any mishap that may befall a tyre.
4 •
11
■
s
m
a
. .... VLSS,
t £*
ws?,:
L 3 !— '
. :
- JR
. •
*: ■- , ■'. • • ’ •-•-. : , •'
mmmm
■-
W:
£
i m
Ik.
: ,
mm
"»L-i
'"" : "
JF
' •>*.
«iS
idr
• -
iSI?
W
t * •: ja
For punctures — ; self-cure patches and patching solution for
quick and easy repairs.
For blow-outs —inside and outside patches to enable you to
get home without running Hat.
For tread cuts —tyre putty, to prevent sand and water from
entering and cutting and rotting the fabric.
For tubes —French talc to dust them with before placing in
the casing, and new Valve insides for replacements.
For general utility purposes, a 2oz. roll of insulated b riction
Repair T ape.
And last, but most important of all, a tyre tester, to tell you
when you have the proper inflation.
Motorists are rapidly learning that a small sum put into a
Goodyear Tyre-Saver Kit proves a profitable investment.
In it is everything needed to restore to running condition a
tyre that has suffered a puncture or blow-out.
With this kit in your car you need never run on a flat tyre,
and damage casing and. tube beyond repair.
It prolongs the life of your tyres. It saves you time, trouble
and money.
Get a Goodyear Tyre-Saver Kit the next time you stop) for
petrol. It will help) you to get longer mileage from
your tyres no matter of what make.
YEAR
AUSTRALASIA
TYRE-SAVER
KIT.
If you cannot obtain the T.S.E. from your local dealer or garage write to the nearest Goodyear Branch or Agency.
Goodyear Tyres, Tubes, Accessories, Belting, Hose, Packing, etc., are now obtainable throughout Australia and New Zealand.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabincs-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
* ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
OOOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
GOOMA (1000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 17.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons)
Leaves Melbourne, Feb. 21.
Leaves Sydney, Feb., 24.
BURWAH (Cargo only).
Leaves Melbourne, Feb. 27.
Leaves Sydney, March 3.
MELBOURNE 'j
(Transhipping for l
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
•Passengers only.
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 17.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Australian Sank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Un £1,198,679
RESERVE FUND £95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37TiireadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., - Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert' R. Lysaght, Esq.; George F.
Todman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New Soutli Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C. .
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT' THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 7893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. IT. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—TV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking |{o.
of Sydney, Limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary, Director.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
gank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
.Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. •• 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. • • 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
■at Interest, lor
1 fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OK VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passeng'ors Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.’’
EXCURSION to HONOLULU, o?^ Pa eactc e
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to Ameriea—
It.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beaoh—“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
mm
k
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
•*!*
£3,705,320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
-Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., AI.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, AI.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office —George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. „ . ' ~,
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECI. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
■T. RTTRSELT, FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
m
Bank
SYDNEY. I
Open
for a.ll
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2600
At all Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 3 0 /
per annum wp /°
up to £3OO /
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELI>. Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER, Governor
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
m
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
a 10$.
15 Years’ Written Cuarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260,
4 lines.
P.O. Box 1610.
Telegrams—
Australia,
Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double. Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attaohed. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the niceting-piace of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
I'OR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping, at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
March 9 and April C.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORI ALT A, Feb. 17.
- RUPARA, Feb. 24.
I PARINGA, March 3.
Saloon Passage Tickets are • interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company’s Olilce.
G. S. YUlLiti & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 UlilDGli STIIJiIST. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,’’
“Riverina,”
“Wimmera,’
“Victoria.”
“ Westralia,’
All o£ Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS,
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:—OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
TWEELL RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COI'FS
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director. .
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports', Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA *’ ... 10,0f0 tons
T. 5.5. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
t!s.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the eniovment of beautiful scenery should travel bv
the AU’SN. Line, as this Company s steamers possess
all up-todate arrangements fqr convenience and com-
fort malcin" travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first’ port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially m-
xTitPri to visit the British Australasian
Reading C at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


&
it
V
•V
y
u***-
/•'S/a
J s
m
'i JET r
O <£i
:«H:
U'V:
•»4*
11
J*
ClwnsAs ItPoltshcT
o€4ar
&
Ornish's^rlerid
iwiikei iiiil
Fite. fa^jX
a
u
..i
C
>*«!»»« In „
*«** -• *- *• K “*«» A, 4 „
u,. * ■** >•*.•*,,, 1
“« « ujt
"»>U
CHANNEIL
0
CHE «If/aCOHPA NY
Be Sure
It’s 0-Cedar
"EWERY piece of furniture in
' your house will look better
after you have used O- Cedar Polish.
Dull, lifeless, dingy varnished woodwork,
will again become as sparkling and bright
as the day it was new'. The beauty of the
grain of the wood will be brought out.
Smudges and seeming defects will disappear.
And, best of all, you do all of this without
hard rubbing or constant polishing.
Always Use
O® 1 "
Polish
[Registered in principal countries]
the O-Cedar Way
Remember you cannot get the desirable
O-Cedar finish unless you use O-Cedar
Polish. It takes all dust, grime and scum off
your furniture first, and then gives that
high, hard, durable andlasting polish.
How to Use O-Cedar
Wet a piece of woollen rag with water and wring
dry. Then pour on O-Cedar Polish until the cloth
holds as much O-Cedar Polish as it does water.
Rub the surface to be cleaned thoroughly, then dry
with another piece of rag, rubbing until the desired
lustre is obtained. By following these simple di-
rections, you are assured of the best results *
cleaner, brighter and prettier furniture.
Try a bottle of O-Cedar Polish today. You will be
more than delighted with the result it brings. Be
sure to use it the O-Cedar way.
Obtainable at all Leading Dealers
Catalogues and Dealer Samples and Prices obtainable from
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
.tlso at BRISBANE.
Manufactured by
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO.
Factory: Chicago r U. S. A.
Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: 'Ocedar ’
mm
ÜBsSSi
UMP
Europ
proved
The Trusty Triumph is
mount for all occasions,
is absolutely reliable as
by its unparalleled
ss in the Great
ean War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
Agents:
Bennett S Barkell
Ltd.,*
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
m
m
m
m
m
m
Watermans
Ideal)
in Pen
THERE he goes, with a merry heart and
a springy step, glad to “do his bit,
confident in his fitness and prepared
to rough it with the best of ’em. But not
prepared to put up with the discomfort of
camp pens and “service” pencils. Oh
clear, no! he believes in a first-rate equip-
ment, so he arms himself with a
“Safety” tvpe Waterman’s Ideal —the
perfect and ever-ready fountain pen.
Far away from home, it will be
his easy means of com-
munication with relatives and
friends left behind. What a
boon it will be to him !
Three types —
Regular, Sit< tv, und Lever
Pocket S lf-Fdling.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan,
Uy&ipcri Cotrter,
London, England.
.Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence St., Sydney.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEaltH
0? J.Collis Browne’s
CWorodync
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BUST MEDICINE I'OB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the C<m.?h of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attack*’
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE .A CHARM IN
Dial 'rhcea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, Sf-, SJ-.
Made, in England.
m
EVERY
MAN
who considers QIIALIT\ and
APPEARANCE, in the selection
of his footwear, will find his re-
quirements fully satisfied if he-
wears
ABBEY SHOES
We illustrate a Tan Willow
Riding Boot. Very smart, com-
fortable and serviceable.
Price - 30/-
Also in Black 28/G
Stocked in full sizes, Narrow,
Medium and Wide Fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our Catalog.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
VjCARBOLICiy
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.
Manchester, Eng.
tkeCHIASTOUTE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
m
“ ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “X like the Celebrated ‘AUABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale o.
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


“Definiteness—a characteristic of successful people"
—and we might add, whiskies. It is the definite dis-
tinctiveness of the flavor of Thorne's Whisky that is
responsible for much of its success.
Be definite when ordering'.
Say THORNE’S—and see that you GET IT.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
0.11. M. “Incomparable.’’
In the black square bottle and of superb quality. [3
£365. THE GRANT SIX.
WHAT DETERMINES CAR VALUE?
Yo\i say Design, Construction, Economy, Comfort, Performance. And you
are right. Judge the New
GRANT SIX
on all points and you will concede its leadership in value. We not only
claim it has the largest, finest motor of any low-priced SIX —hut we urge
comparison in quality of construction, power, flexibility, economy and
performance with ANY SIX AT ANY PRICE,. When may we “show” you?
■Sole agents for n.s.w.
Telephone: City 8862.
Marcus Clarß & Co. Ltd.
GARAGE,
SHOWROOM,
162 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
A deputation to Minister Hardacre the
other day protested vehemently against the
use of patriotic lessons and poems in the
School Paper; also against the frequent
eulogistic references to the navy, Victoria
Cross winners, etc. One deputationist said
he would, prefer to see the leaders of
the industrial movement praisefully men-
tioned ; another would rather see a child
raise its hat to the memory of the recently-
dead Labor worker Mrs. Miller than to
the memory of Nelson or Wellington. These
small-minded Laborites can never see any
farther than the dust-tin in their own back-
yards—where, by the way, all Labor-leaders
are eventually cast.
“C.G.0.”: The absurd practice of drag-
ging all products to one congested port has
found a new supporter in the Hughes Gov-
ernment, which, under the wool-appraise-
ment scheme, insists that all wool for the
Imperial Government must be shipped from
the capital cities of the various States. This
prevents Rockhampton from receiving the
Central Queensland clip, whilst the extra
haulage and inconvenience is estimated to
represent a loss of approximately £40,000
to the growers. The Rockhampton Cham-
ber of Commerce protested to the Federal
authorities the other day, and the astound-
ing reply came that “as all the other States
have to ship their wool from their capital
cities, no exception can be made in the case
of Queensland.” A brilliant piece of logic
from a Government that is busy exhorting
everybody to practise economy.
A vote of the Bananaland caucus has
given Bill Hamilton the job of President of
the Leg. Council in succession to Arthur
Morgan, deceased. Hamilton has been
representative of the Government in the
House ever since the Ryan party took office,
and liis job has not been a rosy one. Ilis
new billet, however, carries a nice little
screw of £lOOO a ‘year and is the softest snap
in Queensland politics. Alf .Tones, the
young Maryborough representative, steps
into Hamilton’s shoes in the Cabinet and
in the Council. He has won on sheer merit,
and nobody begrudges him the lift.
The area selected in Queensland in 1915
amounted to 7,295,085 acres; in 1910,
4J897.259 acres—a falling-off of 2,398,420
acres. That is an indication of how hard
the man on the land is being hit. While
pundits are advising cultivators to go in
for sisal- and cotton-growing, the sugar in-
dustry is practically paralysed, and in some
districts is in danger of being wiped out
altogether. Apparently Bananaland can't
hold on to the primary industries she
already possesses—to say nothing of start-
ing new ones.
“Ah Ivee” : A further instance of animal
sagacity. During the Clermont flood a
horse waded past the Salvation Army Bar-
racks and Olsson’s two-storeyed cordial fac-
tory-—both subsequently swept away—
crossed the street and entered the
Grand Hotel. The ground floor being
flooded, he walked of his own accord half-
way up the stairs. Being then encouraged
by the refugees in the hotel, he continued
to the top, entered one of the rooms, and
remained there quietly until danger was
past, when lie was helped down with ropes.
UNNATURAL BEHAVIOR.
HINNESSY : “Phwat’s up wid Regan that lie don't spane wid you now?”
H OGAN: "Sure, ’tis a bit of a coolness between us since Oi dropped half a ton av
potatoes on the top av him. (Reflectively) He's a quare feller, is Regan."
“Clario” : Concerning the invasion of
Bananaland by foreigners. Anybody desiring
to become a linguist should go to some of
the mining centres near Gloncurry. Every
nationality is arriving in bunches ; and very-
few can speak enough English to make them-
selves understood. There is an element of
danger in employing many of these men
underground; every order elicits the one
reply from most of them —everything is “All
righto.” “One mine one language” threatens
to become the slogan of the miners’ unions
before long.
“F. 8.”; “Boro-Belle” (B. 18/1/T7)
remarks that Bananaland wastes immense
quantities of two products—molasses and
megass. Let me tell “Boro-Belle” that in
Bananaland we do nothing by halves, and
that, instead of contenting ourselves with
wasting two paltry by-products, we are at
present throwing away the whole sugar in-
dustry. Ask Mackay, Bundaberg and the
Herbert.
A man who was found drowned in a stock-
watering trough near Brisbane the other
day was really too considerate a gentleman
to be wasted. lie left a note of apology ;
he was sorry to use the trough, but it needed
cleaning in any case, he said, so the little
addition of his corpse didn’t matter.
“Dry Shave”: The idea that goods that
have been bumped about a lot in a long
journey are better than the local article
seems to have got even a firmer hold on
Queensland than on the South. And when
the northerner patronises the Australian
product, lie insists on a Southern label. He
drags his beer, his boots, his biscuits and
every other thing from as far away as prac-
ticable, and assumes an air of profundity
as he tells you they are better than they
make down at ’Gabba. There’s a manufacturer
in Queensland turning out marmalade for a
Sydney firm which puts it on the market
under its own label. The same marmalade
is sent out under the maker’s name as well,
and is priced in Brisbane at twopence less
than its twin’ brother. Mrs, Brisbane won’t
have “that local rubbish,” preferring to pay
the extra 2d. for an imaginary sea-trip. It’s
mostly the manufacturers’ fault, of course.
But they may shake themselves one of these
days, and give their goods a push. They
may even tell people they make goods.
Meanwhile they are content to let the re-
tailer do the pushing.
Independent investigations into the gasti-o-
intestinal disease known as sprue haw been
made at the Institute of Tropical Medicine
at Townsville. The results are embodied in
a paper by Brienl and Priestley, published
in the Medical Journal of Australia.
This disease is endemic in the coastal dis-
tricts from Aiaekay to Cairns, and is preva-
lent in China, .lava, India, Ceylon and Porto
Rico. It still baffles the investigators, and
the treatment is more or less empirical. Its
causation cannot be fixed, but it seems to be
fairly well established that anyone who
develops it is better in bed in a hospital
than anywhere else. Incidentally, efforts to
reproduce disease analogous to sprue in
laboratory animals have not been successful.
The Chap Who Stays at ’Ome.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If tlie staff of officials waiting at home broke
down what would become of those actually at the
Front?”- — Assistant Minister for Defence Smith at a
picnic of Defence Department soldiers.
I? the chap as stays at ’ome broke down
I pity them as battle in the trenches;
There’d be trouble in the mud
An’ a dfefful loss o’ blood
An’ a-weepin’ with the sweethearts an’the wenches ;
There’d be riot ’ere for certain in the town
If the chap as stays at ’ome broke down.
If the chap as stays at ’oine broke down
, The news ’d straight be cabled to the Kaiser ;
He’d say to Fallcenhayn:
“Cheer up, me boy, again,
I guess tliis news ’ll come as a surpriser;
There’ll be Anzaes on the rampage an’ Hie frown
When they know the chap at ’ome’s broke down.”
It' the chap as stays at ’ome breaks down
Cord ’elp the coves a-fightm’ in the Lowland.
Fer, see, ’twas only scare
As made us send ’em there —
We didn’t want to be. the same as Poland;
The prospects of the Anzaes would be brown
It the chap as stays at ’ome broke down.
If the chap as stays at ’ome broke down
The girls would all be dumpy on the Sunday;
The picnics would be off,
The gutter-press would scoff,
An’ who would measure ribbon on the Monday ?
Yes, who would face the counter an’ the gown
if the chap as stays at ’ome broke down ?
If the chap as stays at ’ome broke down
Yer might as well shut up yev mad recruitin’;
Fer if we wasn't here
To spur ’em on an’ cheer
They’d never go to face the bloomin’ shootin’ ;
You’d better go (ari take yer dog) to drown
If the c-hap as stays at ’ome breaks down.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 10, 1917.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
This week we laid down our knitting-
needles to give the swimming girls from the
South a good time before they return to
their needles. The official welcome was, of
course, the business of the Q.L.A.S.A. Then
the Commercial Ladies’ Club gave them a
night out, which was followed by an evening
on the river with the Valley Cliib girls. On
Wednesday they were motored to the pine-
apple farms at Nudgee. and next afternoon
“Mick" Ivirwin, M.L.A., came to the rescue,
and benzined them up to One Tree Hill, after-
Mrs. T. J. Ryan had ballasted them with
tea and crumpets at Parliament House.
Mesdames E. G. Theodore, W. Lennon,
Hardacre and W. Hamilton assisted in tin-
good work at this last-mentioned soiree.
The tea-tables were set on the cool, wide
balcony from which opens a lovely view of
blue hills and sparkling river.
Lieut. Malcolm McGliie, of ours, has just
won the Military Cross. Ilis brother, Lieut.
Norman McGliie, once associate to Griffith.
C.,T., is on his way back severely wounded.
Another bird for the Flying Corps is Fred
Small, who joined the 9th Battalion as
a private and left Gallipoli, wounded, as a
captain, after seven months’ of Abdul. On
reaching Australia lie was not convinced
when several military doctors told him that
he was unfit for further service. So he
floated back to London and pushed into the
Flying Corps. Capt. Trouton, a well-
known Sydneysider, is this Anzac’s grandpa
on the maternal side.
A Bananaland Light Horseman some-
where west of Suez wrote home recently
that some brasshat had decided that the
L.H. needed scouring. So all clothing,
blankets and lace ruffles were steamed for
a couple of hours. That settled them. Then
the troopers were lined up and drafted
through a sort of slieep-dip. And that
nearly settled them, for the acid was so
strong that some of them emerged half-
skinned.
Friday was another day out for the badge-
sellers. The Red Gross Society made a suit-
able pirate crew, and the plunder went to
the Clermont Relief Fund.
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A. of your State, is in
town. I don’t know what his fad is for the
moment, but if it’s more daylight saving
you’ll never see him again this side of
Jordan.
■ On Tuesday afternoon the Coo-ee Cafe
was opened, and is being run by the Com-
forts Committees of the sth L.H. Regiment,
the 9th and 49tli Battalions, and the 9th
Artillery Brigade. Brisk business.
The other week I told you of the death of
Mrs. Jordan, of Manar station. Well, some-
body else tells me that she was not once a
Mrs. Deuchar; since marriage she was
always a Jordan. But she was a niece of
old pioneer Deuchar. Incidentally, the lat-
ter’s widow is still alive and hearty in
Brisbane at the age of 80. She is also widow
of late Telegraph Superintendent Wilson.
Mrs. Charles Campbell Riley, who died
of typhoid in Toowoomba lately, was one
of three beautiful sisters of Mr. “Coogee”
Walsh, manager for Dalgety and Co. in
Brisbane. Leila, the eldest, widow of the
late Dr. Huxtable, resides with her family
at Chatswood, North Sydney; Hilda,' the
youngest of the trio, is the wife of a doctor
in Toowoomba. “Charlie” Campbell Riley,
who married Kathleen, belongs to a very
well-known family in N. S. Wales. His
cousin, the late W. R. Campbell, owned
Warialda, a station on the Gwydir, which
electorate he represented for a considerable
period. His younger brother, Colonel Sel-
wyn Campbell, the owner of Cavan station
in N. S. Wales, was A.D.C. to John Madden
during several terms of Acting-Governor-
ship. Campbell Riley was the only son of
Charles Riley, barrister-at-law in Sydney
in the early days, and first Master in Equity
in X. S. Wales.
Tours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


m
Model 85-4
£>365
13,000 Sold First 60 Day
The success of this new model
four cylinder Overland car has
grown astonishingly from its first
day. The factory has never caught
up with orders —so great is the
demand.
No other four cylinder car in the
world at anywhere near the price of
this new Overland model can equal
it in value.
Note the graceful lines its 112
inch wheelbase gives to it.
Note its body finish a rich
brown with hood and cover to match.
It combines beauty with effi-
ciency—safety with power—comfort
with economy.
Compare it with other cars in
its price class and note its many
superior qualities.
The beauty of its design the
ease with which it glides along —the
power of its engine—the complete-
ness of its equipment.
Every worth-while feature found
in the highest priced cars is included
in its make-up.
Yet this Overland costs you
considerably less money.
Ask us for a demonstration. Let
us show you why this car proved
itself an instantaneous success.
Model 84-B
The Willys-Knight five passenger touring car, 114 inch wheelbase, Knight type engine, £475
J*
=/
Model 85-4
Ai
"■<---J'—-’
Complete Catalogues on Reguest from—
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HE AT HORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willvs-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.


Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
‘‘Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
m
CARTERS
Small Pill—Small Dose— Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug 1 Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
Walking is Joyful
if you use “BIFF”
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailment*.
|Svmf
Ml'
O
“BIFF” is a scientific compound which draws out
all poisonous matter from the pores of the skin,
leaving the skin in a perfectly healthy condition,
to perform its natural functions. This unique
compound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Mr. A.W.S., N.S.W., writes : "Ifind ‘BIFF’ has
done wonderful work to my Corns which have
nearly disappeared.”
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
PC
£22
11
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
if you use freely several times a day
Rowland's
Kalydor
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who w-ilkquote you price for it.
REMARKABLE
NEW DISCOVERY
Grey Hair
Naturally Restored by
Simple, Harmless Method.
It is a Great Specific for Grey, Faded and
Bleached Hair, which fully satisfies many
thousands. It will satisfy you. Try it once
and be satisfied of its absolute efficacy.
m
\T,
NO DYES OR STAINS.
MY GENUINE SPECIFIC IS NOT A DYE OR.
STAIN. It is almost as clear as water, in fact,
many persons have remarked that it is truly won-
derful to think that a preparation that does not
even stain a sheet of white paper will restove grey
hair to its natural color. It is a great mistake to
apply a preparation such as an ordinary dye that
wall darken the hair immediately. No self-respect-
ing person would think of adopting such a method ,
first, because the sudden change attracts attention
and ridicule on the part of acquaintances. Second,
because the coloring is almost exactly the same as
if ordinary ink were used, and the active chemical
agents in' such dyes are nearly the same as are
employed to give the color and body to writing inks.
Third, the stain is only very temporary and it
cannot be evenlv applied, therefore the darkening
is in patches. Moreover, the scalp is likely to be-
come discolored. Fourth, these dyes injure the hair
shafts, and cause the hair to gradually fall away.
Fifth, the dark color is not natural, it looks as if
the person had applied writing fluid or stove polish.
Sixth, when the hair is moist through perspiration
or wetting the color will run. Imagine the horror
of blacking chair backs, pillows, etc.
A SIMPLE EXPERIMENT.
Take a post-card and put it over the right
side of the line through the centre of the
face. The left side shows a man looking
between 50 and GO years of age. Now cover
the left side and note the remarkable trans-
formation. It shows a man of between 25
and 35 and not a day older.
I AM A WOMAN who belongs to a prematurely
grey-haired family. My father was grey before he
was 30, and two of my brothers as well as- my sister
became grey early in life. Before the age of 25 I
developed grey hairs, which became quite embarras-
sing to me socially and also in business. I LOST
TIIHEE GOOD POSITIONS for no other reason than
my fading hair. The greyness increased with alarm-
ing rapidity, and at 28 1 LOOKED LIKE A WOMAN'
OF -15. One day I was seriously thinking of buying
one of the many. Grey Hair Restorers that are
extensively advertised, when I casually mentioned
the subject- to an acquaintance—a scientific man
and, as I afterwards learnt, a great student of
the Chemistry of the Hair. He strongly advised,
me to have nothing whatever to do with these con-
coctions. He pointed out that SUCH PREPARA-
TIONS EVENTUALLY RUINED THE HAIR, and in
the meantime rarely deceived even the casual observer.
He suggested that I try' a formula that he had per-
fected after a considerable time, which, by a cer-
tain chemical action on the pigmentary coloring
cells restored the hair to its normal color. In reply
to my inquiries, he assured me that the formula
was not only absolutely harmless, and would develop
A STRONG'AKD BEAUTIFUL GROWTH OF IIAIII.
My friend wrote out his prescription, which I hail
made up, and after carefully. following- the instruc-
tions for a few days I was surprised and delighted
to find mv hair becoming richer and darker in tone.
The re-coloring process continued until after some
few weeks my hair actually once again possessed
the natural shade of my girlish days. Since then
I HAVE BEEN INUNDATED AVITH INQUIRIES
from friends and also persons unknown to me, who
came to hear of this wonderful preparation. Having
become convinced that I have found A REMEDA
OF EXTRAORDINARY MERIT, and which is quite
harmless, I have resolved to offer it for sale, as J
am certain from my own experience ■ that it will
prove an inestimable boon to any man or woman
who finds grey hair to he the same serious handicap
it w-as to me. Tt is a Guaranteed Genuine Prepar-
ation. and I OFFER A REWARD OF £lOO if it
will not re-color Grey Hair to Original, Natural.
Shade.
If you are interested in this wonderful prepar-
ation T am willing to send you full and complete
Instructions. Simply write
vour name and full address
plainly and enclose twopence
in stamps for postage, and I
will write you by return post.
If convenient call.
Post this Coupon Now.
To Mrs. MARY K. CHAPMAN,
{Suite 56), Falmouth Chambers, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney (just below G.l .O.)
I enclose twopence in stamps for postage, etc. Please send me under plain cover,
and by return post full particulars of your famous specific for grey, faded and
bleached hair.
Name
Address
State
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building- 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Rift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Rifting Ropes anti other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
A “SLIC” SHAVE
There'll be an end to all tout Razor troubles it
you try
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
Requires but little stropping, and its a 11-conquering
keen edge enables you to shave swiftly and easily
for months.
PRICE. 10/6 POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “Plum” Razor
“Trot” : Henry Bracy spent a lot of time
dressing himself. He was always the mum-
mer, and the varnish, "though thin, lasted
well. One day in Chchurch (M.L.), where
Henry was taking the sparkling eyes, some-
one arranged a trip on the river. Henry
turned up at the boatshed brand-new from
head to foot —flannels, straw hat and every-
thing down to a nautical air. After he had
grouped himself as a decorative effect at
the bow, some of the girls toyed with the
oars and George Lauri signed on as cox-
swain. So the skiff drifted down the stream,
like a painted boat on a painted stage.
Thereabouts the willows weep gracefully
over the water, and Lauri’s seamanship was
put to a severe test. Bounding a bend
George ran the craft under a trailing bough,
and one of the branches, dragged from the
water, flicked Henry’s hat and sprinkled
his blazer. Shudderingly he wiped the
offending spots away, crouched down in the
bottom of the boat and turned a pained
expression aft. “George,” he said, “you
have spoiled the whole day.” And George
had, too. Bracy was crushed. He sang
that night with a wounded soul.
“Harrison O.”: After six years of life
Melbourne Repertory Theatre is in danger
of becoming comatose. Performances which
Avere .to have been given in December had
to be abandoned, and director Gregan
McMahon, seeing no chance of doing any-
thing in the repertory line for 12 months
at least, contemplates returning to the
commercial theatre for that period. If this
happens, all lovers of intelligent drama will
have cause for regret. Had the Repertory
Theatre received support from those to
whom it Avas entitled to look for it, its
affairs Avould not be in their present unsatis-
factory state. When the theatre started
400 citizens who yearned for some-
thing better than the prevailing theatrical
tripe guaranteed McMahon a guinea a year
each, Avhich enabled him to go,ahead. Only
a few of the original subscribers remain,
although the total number has somewhat
increased. But the majority now pay their
guineas for the privilege of belonging to the
Repertory Club, which Avas not in existence
at tho> start, and which, although it devotes
occasional evenipgs to lectures on the drama
by university and other highbrows, is largely
an afternoon-tea and twaddle concern. Once
the theatre could rely on the attendance of
a large number of subscribers and their best
girls, but lately only about 20 per cent,
have tjirned up, so that there has been a
stpady shrinkage in the box-office receipts;
for many of the 400 members of the Club
belong to the corseted sex and are no more
interested in literary drama than coavs are
in theology. The original purpose of the
theatre has been lost sight of, and the Club
is like half a dozen highly decorous social
institutions of the kind. Unless the reper-
tory movement is to be sacrificed to tea
and scones, it is up to supporters of literary
drama to get a move on.
“Sardonyx” : The crux of the “gag” ques-
tion appears to be that Avhile interpolation
may sometimes considerably help the “go” of
a piece, it may, on the other hand, be mere
concession to the bad taste of those Avho can
appreciate only what Ave know as funny-
business. Cibber’s “Richard III.” is cited
by “0.K.” (B. l/2/’l7) as still holding the
stage; but Cibber, notwithstanding the
sneers of Pope, had a fine dramatic instinct
and a keen sense of stage effect. He is his
own justification, which is more than can
be said on behalf of Wilkie, Avho defends his
interpolations by saying that he doesn’t
cater for dryasdusts. "Nature’s getting on!”
gibed Whistler, when somebody said that a
painting of his was “almost Nature.” Gold-
smith, too, must be getting on Avhen he can
be mangled into popularity.
“Van Eck”: Latest Australian to use a
dressing-room on Broad Avay is Dorothy
Gumming. On her arrival in the land of
the wooden nutmeg she Avas engaged to
play opposite James Power and fill in a
part for a Famous Players Co. film.
Ada Guildford, Avho used to be Charles
Holloway’s leading lady, and more lately
served under the blood-red banner of Bilan-
derson, has left for the star-spangled repub-
lic to try to make dollars by grease-painting.
Violet Paget (Mrs. Hugh Buckler) is now
in London, where sh% elects to be known as
“tjie popular " Australian actress.” Another
indication that this country’s name counts
for something these times. When she came
here some years back, with “The Night of
the Party,” she was “the talented English
actress.”
“M.P.A.”: Gaston Mervale is said (B.
18/1/T7) to be a lover of the chaotic. This
can be substantiated without the slightest
difficulty. Several years ago, when Mervale
was movie-making near Sydney, he had a
bush-homestead incident to depict. He
carted a bunch of people out into the hills
at the back of Manly, in a property stage-
coach, and planted them down at a little
wooden cottage occupied by a nice old lady
and her family. When the movie people
detached themselves from the coach they
couldn’t see-any dressing tents; so they bore
down on Mervale Avith : “Where do Ave dress,
Mr. Mervale?” The unhappy Mervale, Avho
didn’t knoAV, waited on the little lady of the
cottage and got her to AvitlidraAV from part
of her house and allow the ladies to use it.
The little lady was next asked to allow the
gentlemen to dress; eventually, the party
taking complete possession, the family Avent
out and sat on boxes. When the picturing
commenced the furniture of the little home
was soon all in use as different “props” were
required. Mervale thundered out directions
and rushed about at speed limit. His
thunderings drove the curate away. At last
the little lady became so overpowered that
she decided to order the Avhole shoAV off the
premises. It was her first experience of
pros. “Oh, what a terrible man!” she
moaned. Godfrey Cass, Avho Avas standing
near, saved the situation. “Ah, madam,”
Cass said, “he’s a terrible man, but awfully
good to his mother.” “Well, sir, if he’s good
to his mother I can forgive him all.” she
replied, and made tea for the entire show.


Let Kodak pictures
tell the history of your home.
With Kodak pictures you can keep a record of
the happenings around your home happenings
that years hence will be of the utmost interest to
you and your children.
A Kodak will give you fine pictures of your boys
and girls, pictures of your pets, your garden,
visitors to vour home and a thousand and one
interesting subjects,
Besides, you need a Kodak to take with you on
your holidays.
THE NO. 1 AUTOGRAPHIC KODAK JUNIOR takes pictures 2} x 3j
inches. PRICE, 45/-
THE Nth 3A FOLDING AUTOG RAPHIC KODAK for postcard pictures—
-54 x 3-| inches. PRICE, £5/It)/'
There are Autographic Kodaks from. 30/- to £l5/2/-
Ask for YOUR copy of splendidly-illustrated booklet: “Picture Making with a
Kodak.”
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen St., ferisbane. H 7 Rtlnrlle Nt., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart. Ruthven St..
Toowoomba. Flinders St.. Townsville. Denham St., Rockhampton. 346 Argent St., Broken
Hill. Dixon St., also corner lathbtoh Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. 3 Dome St.,
Auckland, N.Z., and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
,
- < . >•«
-
■
&m£%*
i¥ '
If '”'f,-s’
ft
-rfiA
V
\k*>
1
i •
-
■*-
m
The morh tuper/'or
motor caf-'Sef&t'ce
m
m
The mark of
aiotor car rarotco
50.8% Will Have No Other Car
THE experience of the great body of Hupmobile owners
backs tip the widespread idea that motor-car economy
and the Hupmobile go hand in hand.
Real economy is not merely low operating cost, but low
maintenance costs —and there the Hupmobile leads. It
keeps out of the repair shop. It stays in commission, with
the fewest delays and lay-ups.
And that means quality in the car.
SO Hupmobile owners are satisfied. They expected
economy when they bought. They get what they
expected.
And satisfied owners are conceded to be a pretty valuable
asset for any motor-car manufacturer.
Our records prove that more than fifty per cent, of our yearly
output is sold to former Hupmobile owners who find our car
best for the cost.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
Hupmobile Model.: S-.eater, J-.eater, 2-.e.ter, .edan, and 5-seatet aad 2-seater .Bk cSm "'baft < «d I ’crant' .taltt Will'S br'raae 'Si,’blfbUl
srs zviTi^p'nTsk,™™ 0 ™ “.""^r^u'rabie^iSr.;;. 5 sftrjsi: ft -««■ •« •< *»»•■■ **»«*• «*—. •»«« “*•»■ “*“
hoocl and seat covers at small additional cost over list price of car.
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHOENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


The Pick o’ the PLUMS
“Gramophone'* owners who wish to concentrate both value and VARIETY
into their record-selections are advised to make “a pick of TIIE I’J.EMS”
—or in other words the popular double-sided
faster* jT
W>Z
GRAMOPHONE
PLUM-LABEL RECORDS
—and there’s no restriction in the picking either. The “Plum” lists
include hundreds of famous Band Selections, the VERY latest orchestral
and REVUE hits, vocal successes and topical comicalities by EMINENT
performers. Here’s the big advantage: You get “ORAMOPIIONE”
quality and a double helping! Two selections on every record.
IQ-incH,
316
12-incH,
5/6
Ask your dealer for “Gramophone PLUMS.”
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland!
AND ONLY 1.060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which you
are interested and full particulars will come to you by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OP LAND
To Director, Intelligence & Tourist Bureau. Brisbane, Q.
K 215. - - Two-stone
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set in Platinum
and 18it. - Gold,
£3/10
Ring, £3/10/-
Handsome Book
of Engagement
Rings Post Free,
Stewart DaWSOft’s
Strand Corner,
412 George St., SYDNEY.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
AT -
STEWART DAWSON'S
K 155. Single-stone
Diamond and Plati-
num, set 18ct. Gold
Ring, £5/10/-
IC2lB.—Fine Diamond
(Crossover Ring, set in
Platinum and ISct.
Gold, £1.3/10/-
Handsome Book
of
Kings Post Free.
Stewart DaWSOtt’s
Strand Corner,
412 George St., SYDNEY.
“GASHMORE”
PIGEON GUN
A new model issued by this favorite
maker just before the war. Our con-
tracts placed us right on price, and
whilst the stock lasts you can have
the benefit of “old rates/’
No. 3194 in our catalog is a splen-
did value side clip pigeon gun with
Greener Cross bolt, full choke barrels,
2fin. chambers, Flat file cut rib,
1-pistol hand, Walnut stock.
At English catalog price,
£ll.
This and many others are in our 60-page gun
catalog No. 7.
ALGOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
©
MV
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
If any illustration, appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
OC^B i SIfUA^I(LS^QRKT A NSH4
0,
V
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
SBS
V.'
>
SAXTON & BINNS’ NEW TUG “SAXO.”
60-h.p. “SKANDIA” ENGINE
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loft vis Street
SYDNEY.
ar
m
V
BK
V;
RZ m wt tolt ' Repeater and a Boy
HIS is the true combination for a good time; for
getting the lads out into the open; for good, health-
ful exercise that trains the faculties and helps to make
useful citizens.
A Remington T7MC .22 Repeating Rifle has a solid breech, is
hammerless and beautifully designed and finished.
Send for catalogue post free.
The Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
m
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings. Melbourne.
Look For This
Signature
c/ <^¥’JyyarD.
on every box of tooth powder or
tube of dental cream that you buy.
It is your guide to the stand-
ard dentifrice created by a doctor
of dental surgery and endorsed
most highly by the dental profes-
sion. You can depend on the safety,
efficiency and high quality of either.
§L
■ ■
Jgj
. ■
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
I.Y
WP
Now you can gratify your preference for a dentifrice in
either powder or cream form by getting Dr. Lyon’s Perfect
Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder, known and endorsed the world
over for half a century, is a super-cleanser whose occasional use at
least is a duty you owe your teeth.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
o^E^‘
ror^kvinsinij
THE TKEIB
ASO PURffTfUSa
THS. ,v
i: 2-sm


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“When my baby was teething he
seemed restless at night. I discovered
>OB
trirrf
a rash on his arms and
legs, also under his chin.
I was tbld it was eczema.
The skin was almost cov-
ered with red pimples;
they were both painful
and itchy. I then tried
Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment. Veiy
soon the child found
relief and in one month had completely
recovered. ’ ’ (Signed) Mrs. M. F. Beaton,
Mansfield Road, Euroa, Vic., Sept. 9, 'l5.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
Sold throughout the world.
<7i
Mr. J. Moorehouse, of
Winnipeg, secured this fine
black-tail Deer with his Ross
.280
Like other experienced hunters he
is loud in his praise of the accuracy
and tremendous anchoring power of
the “Ross” and its Sporting Ammu-
nition with Copper Tube Expanding
Bullet, patented. You also should
use them.
Illustrated catalogue on request.
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Can.
Information and Prices ran be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
915
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep-shell, dark blue gastight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
oz. shot.
ELEY
'320 Revolver
ELEY
"32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
Australian Mutual Provident Society-
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Bomis-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Mon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J-
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Anox, Esq., k.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BOJ7US EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,070,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
LITERATURE FREE BY POST OR CALL FROM NEAREST AGENCY.
Agency for
Motor Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 Ceorge St.,
Sydney.
m
Cord Tyres
Agency for
Motor Cycle and
Cycle Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 George St.,
Sydney.
are practically trouble-free.
Palmer Cord Tyres are a near approach to tyre-perfection—the nearest
known.
The Patent Cords scientifically reinforce the long-wearing Palmer 'Cover. They retain
air pressure evenly, lessen punctures, and avoid bursts. They absorb less driving energy
$p
ffifcV'v
iR
Hi
2fT|V| •
SPPIVP
‘Sfi’;
■hSS
H
ISSIS
m
’♦:.•/•• d;S,S£s',nl
lytlw
iSVSS
mm
than canvas foundations. Cars fitted
with Palmer Cord Tyres do 10% more
distance to the gallon because of this (proved
by actual comparative Tests at Brooklands).
PALMER CORD TYRES
are made for Motor Cars
of all weights, Cycle Cars,
Motor Cycles, and Aeroplanes.
PALMER FABRIC
reinforces the lower-priced
Motor Cycle Tyres, all Palmer
Cycle Tyres, and Tyres for
Auto-Wheels. It consists of
cotton threads in parallel form-
ation, insulated from one
another in pure rubber.
Palmer Patent Cords are a
development of this idea where
the single thread is replaced by
a cord consisting of many
threads, each perfectly insul-
ated in pure rubber.
Both these Palmer principles
save internal friction.
The PALMER TYRE, Ltd., Chief Offices : 119 to 123, Shaftesbury Av., London, W.C.
Palmer Cycle Tyre Users .are
cautioned in their inte: ests to
purchase only Tyres bearing
this mark. Disappointment
follows this neglect.
u'Jl
TRADE
MARK
<A<-
No Cycle Tyre Cover is a
genuine Palmer Cover unless it
Dears this Trade Mark clearly
moulded on the side.
(4) <§>
m
m
e>W3o)^
°6ilo*
In the moment of urgency
When the time comes for quick decisive
action—the hasty summons to the doctor—
the swift imperative journey, then the
motor spirit plays its greatest part. The
throbbing engine tells of pent up power
loosed to drive the car at its very utmost.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
The power and speed produced by
“Plume” is the result of careful distillation.
Rapid vaporisation and maximum of heat
units combine to form a spirit, quick in
action, and of great energy even on the
coldest night. “Plume” is famous for easy
starting, besides giving more mileage and
ensuring a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
Have you seen the Manufacturer’s Re-
commendation Chart, telling you the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloil with which to
lubricate your car ? If not, write us and it
will be mailed free. “A grade for each
type of Motor.”
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
o
°<q/lo v
Pb 4
\XJh
L <O. A So ,
Business, Robbery, etc
“Viator": Innocents ask, “Why plant
potatoes in English parksV” Because the
spud is no traveller. The refrigerator can’t
persuade Murphy to keep. Queen Alexandra
once received a lovely hunch of fresh roses
in ice from Maoriland; and poultry, eggs,
peaches and everything else that can be
suggested may be transported across the
world. But the spud won’t travel in a state
of suspended deadness for anybody.
“Fax”: A Melbourne Solicitor (and barris-
ter) lately charged his clerk with embezzle-
ment. Before thv case was heard the coun-
sel for the lawyer-prosecutor asked permis-
sion to withdraw the charge on the ground
that there was “nothing to sustain it.” The
lawyer-prosecutor admitted in evidence that
he paid bis clerk £1 a week. Finally the
Bench decided that accused had done no
more than he was entitled to do, and the
charge of embezzlement could not have been
the right charge, anyhow, and there was no
case. So the learned Gent. One, who sells
legal advice for a living, had brought his
own £l-a-week clerk into a police court on a
charge which, having nothing to sustain it,
was contemptuously blown out. Altogether
what a reflection on the privileged legal
brotherhood! And what a warning to the
public that lives in danger of being inveigled
into legal difficulties !
* * * *
“D.F.”: You never know your luck.
Forty or 50 years ago a citizen of Bagdad
(Tas.) had a bit of poor, stony, unprofitable
ground in a gully. A convenient cloudburst
came along and the resulting flood brought
down a fine lot of fat alluvial and covered
his patch with it, and ever since he has been
growing fine crops of vegetables. But a
still bigger cloudburst the other night was
followed by a flood that took away the
deposit with compound interest, and left
him nothing but bedrock. They picked up
the carrots and parsnips 10 miles down the
valley.
* * * *
“S.S.” : lie came to our door with a limp,
a hollow cough and an expression of im-
measurable woe. He wanted money (or
equivalents) to save his life, his wife’s life,
and the lives of his three children. “I’m
wastin’ away, boss,” he said, and coughed
his hollowest. “There’s me doctor’s stiffkit.”
The words were faintly legible. “This fellow
is a confirmed waster. —Henry D , M.D.”
Another young Australian, H. F. Godfree,
a Ballarat railway employee, is the in-
ventor of an automatic recorder of telephone
calls, which does all it is asked and “works
like a charm,” as the S.M. at Ballarat re-
ports. It has been in operation there for
18 months; but none of the Melbourne offi-
cials seem to know anything about it. Still
there is hope: P.M.G. Webster has knocked
off excusing the' failures of the manual
recording system to “call for a report.”
South Aus. claims to have beaten the
record for quantity of wheat crammed into
one Outgoing ship—4ol,ooo bushels. The
best the others States can claim, according
to the Adelaide records, is 340,000 (in 1914)
from Sydney and 364,000 (throe months
ago) from Melbourne.
“Chinky” : Representatives of the leading
English seed-distfibutories have beep travel-
ling about seeking fresh growers to take the
place of the Huns and their pugnacious
neighbors. American ‘seedsmen also are look-
ing further afield for their warm-country
stock. In certain lines Maoriland growers
have been building up a reputation, especi-
ally for market gardeners’ and stock-
raisers’ supplies. Many varieties hitherto
retailed as the best German will in the near
future bear the Australian brand —-and a
rattling good brand, too. as experiments
have already proved. The sweet-pea seed
trade is a valuable one, and the monopoly,
formerly held in certain Yankee quarters
will be nipped by Australian raisers who are
coming forward w T ith both old and new
kinds. Watch for ’'em! 1 Ask for ’em! And
shun like poison the house which asperses
them!
Not all Australians miss the ’bus. A few
.years ago a preserving co. tacked a modest
sign upon a shed at Stanmore (Sydney). It
worked its passage slowly, changed itself
from a proprietary to a limited co. for the
purpose of getting capital, and ordered up-
to-date machinery. Then the war came ;
and the ‘ concern doubled its plant and
plunged for army contracts. In 1915 it
supplied the War Office with 700.0001 b. of
jam, in 1916 with 4,000.0001 b, and by June
this year the output will be 4,500,0001 b
good business for the co., its employees,
other cos.’ employees, the man on the land,
the soldiers at the Front who havq the
State’s guarantee of pure food, and (if you
don’t mind it*' mentioned ) Australia.
DODGING PROBATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ike Oofbloom had been very rich.
He lay a-bed as grey as ash,
And gulped the little pills on which
They took off ten per cent, for cash.
The doctors said his day was o’er,
But Oofbloom still declined to shift.
His wealth he’d cut up long before
’Tween sons and daughters half a score,
With sundry little deeds of gift.
“Your fight is worse than useless, man,”
The doctor said. “In pain you lie,
Wiien if you will submit you can
Turn calmly to the wall and die.”
But Ike lived, though against the grain
Were doctors’ fees. What he was giving
To nurses caused an anguished strain,
And oft he’d bitterly complain
About the shameless cost of living.
Then came a day when Qofbloom sent
To have a clock placed bv his side,
And at the stroke of one, content,
The good old fellow smiled and died.
’Twas found then by a lawyer wise,
Of whom Ike’s eldest son inquired,
The time required to legalise
The deeds of gift, to his surprise,
Had simultaneously expired 1
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


SPORTING RIFLES
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
FIREARMS EMBARGO LIFTED.
The military restriction prohibiting the sale of GUNS,
REVOLVERS AND AMMUNITION having been removed, we
supply these goods to the sporting public.
RIFLES,
can now
m
“A marvel at the price”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in., round steel
barrel: open rear and knife-edged front sights.
AVeight, about 211 b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
13/6
m
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire, magazine
takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-hardened
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights;- weight, sJlb.
take-down. Carriage paid
90/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
SSF
IHiP'jis
as
■
:S?S*
“Suitable for small game and target shooting
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 4Jlb; slide action,
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
4 51-
m
“A good rifle at a moderate price."
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22m. barrel; weight, 4flb.;
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights ..
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
30/-
•3 51-
m
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, bandies -2
short, long or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sjih. ..
551-
m
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810.. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all, 37iin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
27/6
‘ Sure Catch” Anglers’ Guide & Price List Post Free.
f£s
•■uj— —
ZSMtg&Sgi:
“A suitable toeayon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre. R.F.,
round barrel. 201 n., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
22/6
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
New Edition Sports and Firearms List—Post Free.
V
w
ASS
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
The “different” Food!
Benger’s Food differs from all others because it contains
the means to partially digest the fresh new milk with
which it is prepared.
This means much, because the inability to digest milk—
and only by proper digestion is its nourishment obtained
—is very common. Always use
Food
for backward Infants, Invalids, and Aged persons because
even the weakliest among these obtain the full benefit of
the milk, and all enjoy and thrive upon it.
Penger’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc. every where. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt. Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U S.A.) 90, Beekinan St. Dei-dts throughout CANADA.
SQHUTE, BELL, & Co. Ltd.,
' / SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal [attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
0
0171514
£3llOl-
- Special Stewart Speedometer
for Ford and other
Standard Small-type Cars.
A car without a good speedometer is like a business
man without a reliable watch.
Nothing can be kept track of.
Every Ford and other standard small-type car needs
the best speedometer on the market —the Stewart.
With it you can keep track of your tyre mileage ; your
petrol and' oil consumption, and keep tab on the
efficiency, economy and performance of the whole
car.
This Stewart Speedometer is specially b*uilt for these
cars. It is also specially priced.
It is built on the famous magnetic principle —the same
as the speedometers ths.t are used on the highest-
priced motor-cars.
There are nearly 2,000,000 Stewart Speedometers in
use at the present time.
It is the best and the most practical instrument from
any standpoint.
You can get a lot more pleasure out of your car when
it is equipped with a Stewart Speedometer.
Take no other. Insist on a Stewart. Don’t accept a
- substitute.
Purchase one without delay.
It is a wise plan in buying your next car to see that it
is equipped with a Stewart Type Pump, Stewart Vacuum
Tank, S ewart Warning Signal and Stewart Speedometer.
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor=car Dealers
and Garages—Everywhere.
Bennett Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.W.
The Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
“No car is better than its accessories
/*
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Miss Maude Fane Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
MISS MAUDE FANE is one of the daintiest principal girls the J. C. Williamson stage
has known. She is a living proof that Australian girls compare more than favorably
with the imported ones. Miss Fane always likes a good Australian article. She
writes as follows :—■
MISS MAUDE FANE (from a photo.)
“I feel it my duty
to write and tell you
how good I have found
your Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. To say
the least, I am enthu-
siastic about it, for it
lias cured me in the
most marvellous fash-
ion of one of the most
troublesome colds I
ever had.
“Its lightning ef-
fects on a cold are
little short of mar-
vellous, for I felt bet-
ter after the first dose,
and in less than three
days’ time was abso-
lutely right again.
Since then I have
used it every time I
have felt the slightest
indication of a huski-
ness in my throat or
cold coming on, and
I can truthfully say
that it has been effec-
tive immediately.
“I think New Dis-
covery by far the best
th im>' I have ever
come across for a
cold, and I most
heartily recommend it.
“Yours sincerely,
“(Sed.)
“MAUDE FANE.”
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know
Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t
bottle at once, and be ready to pounce on to the first cold that
ance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-
should be in every household to protect you from all coughs
1/6 and 3/-.
the worth of Dr.
delay, but buy a
makes its appear-
■ready friend that
and colds. Price,
D? Sheldon si
New Discovery
m
OUGKS
And
OLDS
#
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney
■p)o YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from ths blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS’ No. 2A,
For Ancemia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS' No. 7.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-.
5^
(Pronounced Jell - Lloyds)
m
Gives
Stamina and
Staying
Power.
Increases
the Defensive
Forces of
the Body.
fflie~'sxxlldfo7i
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Red-Gold.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD nothing to do but to carol and
whistle,
With flowers all around me and grass
to the knees,
The heart of me light as the down of the
thistle
That hastens and halts at the will of the
breeze.
And the sheelings were many, and many the
dairies
That gave me hearth-welcome and new milk
to drink ;
How could it be else with a friend of the
Fairies
Who had them anigli him all day, do you
think ?
It was they who would sit at my feet full
of stories,
Or sing the sweet songs that enchant and
enchain,
Of dead and gone doings and long-ago
glories
That gleam a gold vision through grey, veil-
ing rain.
‘Twas the Good Folk that filled me with
dreams and with fancies,
I sitting at dewfall with twilight around ;
And some were like tulips and some were
like pansies,
And some sashed with crimson, and some
greyly gowned.
It was they who could raise from old ruins
mossed over
Grey castles with perilous towers at a
breath ;
Or call from smooth mounds and their
mantles of clover
Tall knights armed and armored to fight to
the death.
’Neath the spell of their 'weaving quaint cos-
tumes and manners, *
Old banquets and battles would rise once
again ;
And the mists on the hills would be Meave
with her banners,
And the keening of Deirdhre would rise
from the glen.
It was they who could ’wilder the senses
and dazzle,
And make the green sycamore sing like a
lyre,
And set the far sea-edge ablaze with Ily-
Brasil —•
Its domes and its turrets of gold and of
fire.
With the sand for my couch and a rock
for my pillow,
I’d lie, by the spell of their magic made
mute,
And watch a faun leaping from billow to
billow,
With ever a black hound in silent pursuit.
As the song of the sea and the forest-way
varies,
Now louder, now lower, from dawn-flush to
dark,
So echoed and echoed the song of the
Fairies,
At times like a linnet, at times like a lark.
And one was a lily and one was a daisy,
And one was a cricket, and one was a bird ;
And they taught me the love-speech that'
sent the girls crazy
With a kiss and a coo peeping out of each
word.
’Tis the way with old Time that he marks
on his dial
A moment that fills us with glory or shame,
And the shadow came round to the hour of
my trial,
And ’tis weak as thin water I proved when
it came.
For as I sat courting the Fairies one morn-
ing.
Red-gold, the loud wanton, came by with
a song,
And, all the sweet words of the fairy-
throng scorning,
I thrust their hands from me and broke from
the throng.
At the heels of Red-Gold was a rabble that
muttered
And cackled and struggled and followed like
geese;
But ah for the Fairies a farewell they
fluttered,
Their little hands trembling like flowers in
the breeze.
I am one with that rabble that gathers and
thickens,
And fouls the sweet air with its lust and
its l^es;
And the heart of me sighs, and the soul of
me sickens,
For a touch of her hand and a look of her
eyes.
Though the skylark should sing ’tisn’t I
that would hark it,
With the big lust upon me, the hot, choking
lust; •
The fairy cries cease, and I’m off to the
market
To mix with the pigs and to roll in the
dust.
Ah, the black curse upon her and all her
devices,
Her smiles and her wiles, making hot, mak-
ing cold ;
Her gifts that men die for, her glow that
entices—
Bad cess to the big wanton eyes of Red-
Gold!
There are times when the thirst in my
throat makes it brittle,
And the pace grows too hurried, too fevered
to last,
And the heart of me asks to be rested a
little,
That I sit on the roadside and think of the
past.
Yes, I think of the twilight, the lakes and
the mountains,
The grass underfoot and the clean skies
above,
And my soul breaks its seals at that moment
and fountains
With the waters of sweetness and beauty
and love.
And I cry: ‘‘l was free of the sheetings and
dairies,
Hearth-welcome and greeted by young and
by old,
A singer of songs and a friend of the
Fairies,
And lost all these things for the sake of
Red-Gold !”
n.s.w. *
RODERIC QUINN.
The Saviour.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YDNEY Domain is one thing on a
k 5 weekday, another thing on a Sunday.
Always, on a sunny day, there are the
avenues of dark trees with the trellised
shade beneath them; margins of shadow
around the wide stretches of sunlit grass;
cool-looking daubs of shade in seas of vivid
color. But on Sunday there are the massed
crowds that represent all the struggling
ideas, fancies and desires of humanity,
mingled in a discord which somehow, if you
note it long enough, achieves a harmony.
There is the big crowd round the 1.W.W.,
where a band sometimes plays, listening to
the perfervid eloquence of Donald Grant, its
most popular orator,, under sentence of death
because of the. consumption that holds him,
but afire with the idea that he is doing some-
thing for the advancement of his fellows.
There are the little crowds on the outskirts
hotly debating side issues. There are the
Socialists, quieter, more logical, less popular
because their utterances lack the stinging
sensationalism of the speakers in the other
crowd; the Christian Israelites with queer
ideas and an ill-painted banner and a
megaphone to make their statements heard ;
in the midst of all, the Peanut King, who
is willing to discuss any subject which will
draw a crowd; and children, and flappers,
and lascars and sundries. These last
include British-Israelites, Theosophists,
Christadelphians, Agnostics, invalids in
bathchairs preaching a humble charity; the
True Churchites, the Spiritualists, a shabby
orator who declares that the cultivation of
will power is the secret of success, and tells
how it can be done: scores of different ideas
promulgated side by side. And there is the
procession of vehicles on the road; the
pleasant sunlit views, and an atmosphere
of lazy, glorious contentment, spiced with
a vagutvscent of flowers.
The man beside me on the seat was get-
ting old : his face had the look of a philo-
sopher.
“I’ve never missed a Sunday in me life,
barring it \yas wet,” he said. “I know ’em
all; but I don’t listen to ’em much for the
lust few years. I just come an’ look on.”
“How’s that?” I asked.
“Well, I haven’t, since the meetings of
the Disciples broke up. It somehow broke
me up, too,” he said. “I was a Disciple.’ 1
“Were you!” I exclaimed.
lie looked quite gloomy.
“You remember Julius,” he said. “Oh, I
forgot you hadn’t been here much. Julius
was the Saviour. First time any of us met
him he just blew into Sydney—if I ought to
say ‘blew in’ about him” —his voice ex-
pressed a sort of reverential apology—“and
came up to the Tree of Knowledge. You
know it?” he asked.
“I’ve seen it.”
“That’s right. I’ve heard some fine dis-
cussions there. There’s men like Curtin, the
anarchist. He’s a clever fellow, educated at
Cambridge, and was a professor at one of
the universities till he spoke his opinions
too loud. He was offered a job at a fiver
a week, but he turned that money down;
he said it was more than his share. There’s
a group of five of them with him, all anar-
chists, and they live up to it.
“You’d hear more of Karl Marx an’ all
the rest of ’em from that lot in half an hour
than you’d hear in most places in a month ;
but religion wasn’t usually mentioned, unless
it was to show it w r as all wrong, and just
an invention of the ruling classes—until
Julius came along. He was all shabby, and
his boots were qut, an’ his hair wanted cut-
ting ; but there was something in his face
that made him look remarkable. 'He plunged
right into an argument, taking the men
right up on their dogmatic words about how
the world was to be put right, and he
started to talk religion—or what religion
might be. And lie talked it so well that
he pretty well outed the hard cases who
usually had an answer for everything.
“When it was getting tea-time old Per-
kins, who keeps a little grocery, but nearly
always leaves his wife in charge while he
gets down to the Tree, asks the newcomer
where lie’s stopping ; and learning he hasn’t
fixed anywhere, asks him' home.
“Some of us dropped in to Perkins’s after
tea; and there, sitting in the kitchen, with
the light shining on his white, gentle face,
and his big eyes glowing out of it, he im-
pressed us even more. What was most curi-
ous was the way Perkins’s wife, who usually
didn’t forget that she had a tongue, just
sat an’ listened and said nothing.
“We picked out, some way, that Julius
had come from somewhere out in the coun-
try, where he lived all alone with .an old
man. He didn’t know whether the old
fellow was his father, but when he died
Julius felt a longing to come to Sydney and
say to the people what he felt he must say.
“But he didn’t talk much about himself:
he spoke mostly of religion, and it was the
first time most of us had heard it spoken
about in any but an irreligious way.
“Perkins used to bring him down to the
tree every day and on Sundays we took him
to the Dom.
“One day Hilder, a man who had always
been bitter against religion, without being
able to say why, except that he disliked it,
drew three of us aside as we were leaving
the Dom. and says:
“ ‘Who is he?’
“ ‘Who?’ I says.
“ ‘Why, Julius! Is he the Saviour?’
“The idea staggered me; but almost im-
mediately it didn’t seem so ridiculous.
“ ‘He hasn’t said so,’ I answered.
“ ‘But he has been led by some power
which has brought him down to Sydney—
and hear how he speaks! Perhaps he has
not yet been given to know about his own
mission.’
(Continued on next page.)


WOMEN S NEEDLESS KIDNEY SUFFERING
Kidney disease in women often
reaches a serious stage before it is
recognised, because women are apt
to misunderstand the symptoms
and put them down to “female
troubles” instead of the real cause
—the kidneys.
When there is kidney trouble
the kidneys and bladder are liable
to become inflamed and to swell
considerably, causing symptoms
which are easily taken for female
complaints—pain or weakness in
the back, dizzy spells, sick head-
aches, the eyes grow dim and puffy,
the ankles and limbs swell, the
complexion is yellow, you are soon
tired and can’t walk far, you sleep
poorly - and feel heavy and languid
in the morning—there -may be
urinary disorders and gravel.
With the use of Doan’s backache
Kidney Pills relief will be quick
and lasting, for Doan’s Pills restore
adlivity tc the kidneys and bladder,
remove inflammation and expel the
kidney poisons which cause women
so much needless suffering. This
medicine has no action on the
bowels. In use 75 years.
* f Everv Picture
Tells A Story
i.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storeu
at 2/9 per bottle, or posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Two Sydney Women
Cured to Stay Cured.
FROM SURRY HILLS
Mrs. H. Sturgeon, 70 Marlborough Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says: “It gives me great
pleasure to say a few words in praise of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. For a good while 1
was a martyr to kidney trouble, the symptoms
being backache, urinary disorder and dizzy
attacks. My back ached fearfully and every
movement was accompanied with a twinge like
the stab of a knife. The kidney secretions
were cloudy and scalded a good deal in passing,
this symptom clearly showing my kidneys were
very much out of order. I heard good reports
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so decided
to give them a trial. The first bottle gave me
relief and by the time I had used three bottles
I was cured and 1 have been well ever since,
a period of over twelve months.” ,
FROM ALEXANDRIA
Mrs. Ghas Reynolds, 21 Wyndliam Street,
Alexandria. Sydney, says: “My back troubled
me for a long time, the sharp, shooting pains
making my life a misery. I could n-ot stoop,
and suffered great pain trying to get about to
do my work. Even when lying in bed at night
I got no ease. I could not get anything to give
me relief, though I used a great many remedies.
However, I at last got a thoroughly good
remedy in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. These
wonderful pills stopped the pain like magic,
and I have been quite free of it for two years
now. Xo one need endure the agony of back-
ache, for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will
certainly •cure this ailment.”
Mrs. Reynolds confirms the above seven
years later: “I can now add the important fact
that I have been free of backache ever sine?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me seven
years ago.”
m
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
m
“ ‘Nonsense,’ said Stewart, who is very
religious. ‘He is merely a clever man, well
informed by a lot of reading.’ , ,
“But Milder says: ‘l’m going to ask him,
and going after Julius he says: ‘Are you the
Saviour?’
“Julius just looked at him as if he did not
understand, and then says slowly, ‘I do not
know.’ •
“After a time we all began to think of
him as the Saviour. We didn’t say it out,
of course, because we- thought the proper
time would come when he’d say it himself.
He never drank; he never smoked ; he ate
less and less, and the less lie ate the more •
powerful he seemed able to preach. Then,
one day an old woman, hobbling with rheu-
matics, held his hand, and cried out that
she was cured. She was, too ; and although
she used to get the pain again, he could
cure her in the same way. And there were
other things.
“At last —this was after about eighteen
months —he seemed to be troubled in spirit.
He didn’t hold the meetings in the Dom., but
told us that he wanted to be alone. A lot
of us thought that a big revelation was com-
ing. And it did come.
“He re-started the Domain meetings; but
one Sunday, when we were all gathered
waiting for him, he did not come. Perkins
said he’d not been home.
“As we were waiting, talking about his
non-appearance, Miss Tomkins comes hurry-
ing up, with her baby in her arms—it had
been born some months. She was crying.
“ ‘lt’s my fault,’ she said. ‘I got an
order against him —and the police have
arrested him.’
“It staggered us to hear her, but she
hurried on with her explanation. She had
taken out an order against him in the
Children’s Court for herself and the baby ;
and he, not doing any work, but getting only
his clothes, food and lodging from us, had
not been able to pay. That was the time
he appeared troubled and knocked off the
meetings. He’d been up before the Court
for disobeying the order, and committed to
prison, but she had pleaded him off; but
this time she had let him go.
“‘I only did it because I thought it
would make him get work, and then we
could be married,’ she sobbed. ‘But, oh,
I’m sorry.’
“When he,came out, a few of us went to
meet him, at his request, at Perkins’s. Mary
was there, and the baby ; and when we saw
him w r e couldn’t say some of the hard things
we meant to say!
“‘I have been a fraud,’ he said, ‘but I
swear I did not mean to be one. First I
only thought I had a mission to preach to
.people, but when I saw what you thought
of me I fancied I was really what you
thought. You deluded me, and I deluded
myself and you in turn. Even when
Mary”
“ ‘lt was my fault; I tempted you.’ cried
Mary, with flaming cheeks, but willing to
shame herself to save him.
“He put his arms round her.
“ ‘I convinced myself that I was right—
because of what I imagined—in doing a
wrong. My idleness itself was a wrong.
M.v wife” — :
“ ‘Your wife?’ said someone.
“‘I married Mary an hour ago. My
wife prosecuted me because she loved me,
to teach me the man’s duty, which I was
f(franking for a delusion. I wish some one
of you could find me a job !’ ”
There was a long pause.
“We found him a job.” continued the old
man. “and lie’s doing well. That’s him over
there, talking about mesmeric, power—he
came back to the Dom. after some months:
some of these men who can talk can’t help
it. They must talk somehow. That was all
it was: a young man brought up lonely,
with queer fancies and much religions read-
ing, and no taste for beer, tobacco and other
stabilities.
“But I don’t care to listen to the speakers
since then,” he concluded. “I just look on.”
HAMER.
Blackbirding.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a golden Spring morning, and the
villagers of Moviavi basked on the
shady verandahs of their umber-tinted
sago-huts, intoxicated by the fragrance of
the atmosphere.
Tall cocoanut palms threw patches of
shade on the shimmering sand, where bronze
girls, garlanded with frangipanni and hibis-
cus, la.\ languorously watching brown
urchins at play! In the midst of them, pigs
and dogs were asprawl. And here we were in-
truding with boxes of shoddy trade to per-
suade the happy-go-lucky Adams and Eves
to leave their Eden and work. 1 was on the
genial Samoan pastor’s verandah, pondering,
as I drank the young cocoanut’s sweetness
lie brought me, the most likely blandish-
ments to beguile them away.
In the yard below capered the pastor’s
flock. They had been at school on his veran-
dah, chanting multiplication tables to San-
key and Moody tunes, and they grinned a
unanimous -vote of thanks when my arrival
put an end to their educational troubles for
the day.
After a game of cricket, with a cocoanut
for a ball and a sapling for a bat, they were
dismissed by their master, but still lingered
laughingly.
•“Sir,” said the pastor, “what you think my
school? I think my school the very good school.
Altogether the native very lazy peoples.
Sometimes no lika the schoola, very wild the
schools. But no matter; I teach gooda the
letter, the number, the mappa. I the very
kind man, all the sama white man. Sir, you
very much love-a to me; I the very much
love-a to you; my wife a the very big love-a
to you”—
Presently the pastor’s pretty wife shyly
appeared. “Ah.” she said, “do you like New
Guinea? For me I no like. Too much the
fever; I very sick the fever. Too much the
mosquito; he very no good. All the time
the medicine, the quinine, very bada th’
tasta. Very dirty the native ; too much thief
the people • very bad man the people.”
No doifbt the lady could have continued
the denunciation for a week, but her grubby
native kitchen assistants rushed out to in-
form her that the pullets had been caught
and the yams and sweet potatoes peeled.
Said the boy: “Huh, tuubada! That time
I bin work along Laloki. X bin savvy you.
That time you boss alonga wharfa, eh?”
I gave him a stick of tobacco.
“Wife belong you stop here] Eka?” I
inquired.
"Huh tuubada! That time I bin come
back village* close behind wife belong me
she bin die.” '
“Huh! You got plenty rice, singlet,
tobacco, knifa, ’n’ altogether something along
boxa belong you?”
“Altogether everything I catchem along
store.”
“You savvy me good,” I proceed. “This
time I like plenty boy. he come make big-
feller garden close up Ela [Port Moresby].
I think more better s’pose you come work.”
“Huh! True you gottem plenty rice,
plenty bullamakow [meat], plenty tea,
plenty sugar along village, eh?”
“Jah !” says another. “New Guinea boy
he no gottem bullamakow, he no gottem
rice, kuku, damience [salt]. But he gottem
plenty megani [wallaby], kokoroko [casso-
wary]. quarumi [fish], malm [yarns],
taitu [sweet potatoes], beko [bananas],
wi-tvi [mangoes]; ’n’ he no’ gottem hard
feller worka.”
“Jah!” I argue. “S’pose you come, you
look out along altogether boys, allasame
boss. One moon, one pound.”
This proposition made brown brother
ponder. So I play another trump. “Huh,
Eka, what for you no got good-feller eye?
My word, this time I come along village
belong you, I see kikeni [girls] he no got-
ten! reva-reva \ tattooing prized by natives
as is jewellery]. What for you stop here?
Buyem girl allasame kikeni along Ela, ’n’
Gaili, ’n’ Hula, ’n’ altogether everywhere
he gottem No. 1 reva-reva. Face, too, he
very good. My word, I think eye belong
you he no good.”
“Jah! Finish, taubada. Night-time I
yarna along boys. S’pose some feller -he
like go worka -along you; me, very good.
No good you talk too strong this time;
by-’n’ by boy he too much fright, lie no come.
Night-time I make talka.”
In. the expectation of success I distribute
snips of twist tobacco.
Just as I clambered into my hammock
that night my head-boy came.
“I think we get plenty boy to-morrow,
taubada. I bin hearem Eka ’ltd people talk.
Some young boys he like go work. Old man
he no like boy go work. He say altogether
white man no. good; all-a time fight along
New Guinea boy. Then Eka he talk this
fashion: ‘Huh! What for you, old man, talk
allasame? You no savvy work along white
man. I bin work along white man. True,
some feller white men too much wild ’n’
fight New Guinea boy. That time I go
work, I savvy, fashion along this feller
white man: he no fight along boy; boy
belong him catchem plenty kai-kai’ [food].
I hearem Eka talk that fashion.”
When I woke at daylight it was to hear :
“Eka he bin bring ten feller boy he like
go work. Eka he say more better you givem
presents quick.” And presently I was giv-
ing each of these ten boys two yards of
prints, some singlets, five sticks twist
tobacco, belt, pouch, knife and some beads.
As they tugged one another into the singlets
and put on the gaudy wraps they positively
swelled with conceit, and to show the
thoroughness of their emancipation into the
ranks of working men. all had clipped their
mop's of reel hair. When they had eaten
as much rice and .meat as they could, I and
the gorgeous outfit strutted into the village.
Natives rushed jabbering in all directions.
The parents-of the recruits clamored; but
the boys were as determined to go away
and earn themselves trade treasures as I
was that they should go.
During a lull in the hullabaloo Eka
struggled through the throng and- said : “My
word, taubada, you-me catchem plenty more
boy this time. You go up along dulm
[men’s lodge], gettem plenty presents ready,
so we givem along boy very quick when I
bringem.”
Half an hour later there dime the patter
of hurrying feet through-the gloomy dubu
behind me. It was Eka, with twenty
excited boys. “Iluh, givem present quick.
taubada. Father belong him, s’pose he savvy
boy go work, he come stop ’im quick feller.”
And as fast as I could‘give the things they
snatched them. The wearing of these pre-
sents is regarded by the unsophisticated
natives as the ratification of their agree?
ments with the donor.
Hardly had the second lot of recruits
received the presents than fathers, mothers,
aunts, sisters and dogs rushed vociferously
pell mell at us. The din was demoniacal,
and only eased when they learned that I’d
sent for a hundred pounds of rice as their
share of the business. Meanwhile my own
boy brought word that he had fifteen recruits
hiding at the mission anxiously awaiting
me, find whilst lie remained to distribute
rice to relatives of the thirty recruits I
already had, Eka and myself fixed the other
fifteen. When they ran down into Moviavi
the excitement went to delirium, till it
looked as though the villagers might tear
the clothes off the recruits. Then Eka,
elated and all as he was by the success of
our -joint strategy, made this suggestion : “I
think more better you-me takem altogether
boys along river, quick feller. Close up
people,he wild: s’pose you-me no go quick,
some boy he fright too much, he cluickem
away clothes ’n’ run away inside bush.”
So as calmly but quick-ly as it could be
managed the forty-five recruits were got on
to canoes whilst a thousand and more of
their relatives stood jabbering angrily or
sobbing bitterly along the river bank. Just
as we got well under-way out on the stream
a canoe with eight more boys sped out of a
creek and joined iis, .and as we raced away
at top speed that horde of people and dogs
made a veritable pandemonium with their
yells and threats and wails and yowls.
Native-labor recruiting is still an exciting
game; but what must it have been in the
“blackbirding” schooner of forty years ago!
R. A. GOODYEAR.


Westinihouse<MChain Drives
/
'• • -■ ■ ■■ .
-n. \ j
' } MW®
Im m I
THE ROCKER-JOINT eliminates fric-
tion, and as there is no slip, power losses
are reduced to a minimum. Our chain
business is constantly increasing, prov-
ing that engineers are realising the
advantages to be gained by using
ROCKER-JOINT CHAINS.
Ask for Booklet 8.M.310 when making your
inquiry.
The Westinghouse Brake Go.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W. n
m
m
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves sper cent. on
Automobile
Fire insurance.
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
m
m
M
CO
When you
remember that
5 years’ thought
and skill have been
applied to perfecting
BROOKS
Saddles, their pre-eminence is no
longer a matter for doubt or wonder.
OF ALL DEALERS.
m
Anything made ol
brass, silver, gold,
copper, zinc, alum-
inum takes on a
new life when rub-
bed with this
wonderful polish.
easy to use.
m
QUICK TO ACT,
convenient in
form. Sold by all
Grocery, Hardwar e
and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo
oh Can.
m
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
' The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15«6. CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
KIBBEJD tykes
TUJRBE
TUKEE'KTBBEn TYKES
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
6. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B. 70
m
“Indispensable”
—a word largely used in these days—may be said to accurately express,
in so far as any single word can, what is the careful and considered
conclusion which has been arrived at by many people who use
Beecham’s Pills. They consider that Beeeham’s Pills are “indispen-
sable” to their health, and, as a matter of course, to their happiness;
and they never allow themselves to be without a supply of this valuable
medicine in their homes. This latter is an excellent idea, and one
worthy of imitation —for there is no doubt whatever, that, as a preven-
tive medicine —one that may be taken with confidence when perhaps
only an “out of sorts ” feeling is experienced and before any definite
ailment has developed—Beecham’s Pills are a positive boon. They do
good all round;—they tone up the stomach, correct the action of the
liver, regulate the bowels and are a powerful agent in purifying the
blood. It is certainly a good plan never to be without
BEEeHAJVI’S
Pllabg
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10|d (36 pills), 1/1$ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
m
m
For easy tube screwing in cramped quarters,
for fast and accurately-cut w r ork, use
OSTER
RATCHET
SCREWING
TACKLE
with the 5 famous Bulldog: features: (1) Self-locking, adjustable guides,
(2) self-centring guides, (3) no running back over newly-cut threads,
(4) no loose bushings, (5) no small parts. Ask your ironmonger,
machinery, hardware or plumbing-supply maker, or write
CHAS. WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria,
Australasian Representative for
THE OSTER MFG. CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.3.A.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
*v;:xz j
There are Three Marked
Advantages in the Use
of these Dies.
The Russell Opening Dies.
The Dies are opened or closed by a single movement of the lever on the side of
the stock. When a thread has been cut to the required length, the operator
pushes the lever, thus throwing the Dies open, clear of the thread, and the whole
tool is quickly lifted off the finished work. When free of the work, the reversing
of the lever closes the Dies exactly to size again, ready to cut another thread.
ADVANTAGES: —-
(1) The time usually wasted in running back over the finished thread is saved
—about one-third of the total time.
(2) The marring or stripping of the threads, caused by chips crowding into
the Die teeth in turning back, is avoided.
(3) The life of the Die is almost doubled, as turning back over the thread in the
old way causes much wear of the Dies.
SOLD IN SETS IN HANDSOME WOODEN CASES.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
WE SPECIALISE IN STOCKS AND DIES AND ALtr SCRE WING TOOLS.
m
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Machinery, Iron and Tool Merchants,
554-66 and 582-88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ESTABLISHED 56 YEARS.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
MANGROYIT
LEATHER
LTI
whiob is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LODOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
asm
|oCtO3|&i
' J!SL
T? < ®sLaK'V. W
>M>Dt '<«*«*, ZSTW* T#4M f K MM» r-'
.?,*• as
- 4eaaS»M ■MM
flrifnd
"AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” Brand
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen from Best Sheffield
Crucible Cast-Steel Plates. Sizes 6in. dia. to 72in. dia.
BAND-SAWS, Ya to Iy z wide.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALITY.
IRON AND STEEL FOR MACHINE 'KNIVES.
R 62 SPECIAL MILL-SAW FILES.
Testimonial from an Australian Sawmiller: —“When
I bought that 42in. saw from you I also got some
Special Files. Have you any more? There is none
other that we have used to hold a caudle to them.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Australian
Offices—
379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle;
sbane: John Reid & Nephews; Adelaide:
Sheffield, England.
HAROIE’S
GENUINE
“FIBRO-CEMENT
99
Sheets & Slates for all Building: Purposes,
mm
BRITISH
MADE
Hat Hoofing- and Dampcourse
(Approved by Public Works Department).
Flbcrlß
The Suiidlngßoardmadefrom Root Fibres
l or Interior Walls and Ceilings.
Write for Samples from
JRMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildings,
Brisbane; and at Adelaide.
WOLFE'S
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNA
v- v
Tanffyo Portable Lampless Oil Engine.
If
We beg to notify Farmers
and Chaffcutting Con-
tractors that Ave are now
SOLE AGENTS for NeAV
South Wales for above
celebrated Cutters, and
are in a position to supply
various types and sizes of
these well-known
Machines promptly on re-
ceipt of order.
r'fmyn
m
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Write us for illustrated and descriptive Catalogues.
One of the above Cutters, driven by either a TANGYE LAMPLESS OIL
ENGINE or CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH Portable Steam Engine, forms an
ideal CHAFFCUTTING PLANT, and will give wonderful satisfaction.
So/e Agen
m
w
Tangye Oil Engine driving Centrifugal Pump for
Irrigating.
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Tangye Pumps and Irrigation Plants.
Nicholson & Morrow Farm Implements.
Wolseley Sheep-shearing Machines.
E.R.B. Separator Engines.
E.R.B. Farm Pump Engines.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
IM
.
■
igsi
8 m
THE
Machines
are what you now need to overcome
the evil effects of the noxious Blow-
fly.
Wolseley Crutching Plants are all
of the standard Wolseley pattern—
famous for ease of operation, relia-
bility and efficiency.
Write for descriptive folder, post
free.
Wolseley 1-, 2- or 3-Stand Cry tell-
ing Attachment affixed to Wolseley
Engine.
IN STOCK FOR IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
get y
m.
Co.
Ltd.,
Australasian Agents.
Branches.
r x,
'mmm
ftp***-
m
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRUCE PEEBLES & CO. LTD.
Engineers, Edinburgh.
Orders tor MOTOR CONVERTERS during 1916 Include
One 2000 KW. for SYDNEY (Repeat Order *
Two WOO KW. for MANCHESTERTRepeat Order*
One 2000 KW. for JOHANNESBURG (Repeat Order\
Two WOO KW. for CALCUTTA (Repeat Orderf. h
Calcutta Has nos, ordered 33 MOTOR CONVERTERS totalling 15,075 KW
Exceptional Reliability-Very High Efficiencies
No I ransformers Necessary-Small Floor Space Occupied.
Full information and particulars from---
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, Syd
iSSft
MBd
m
m
Off
\%m
1000-KW, Motor Convertor (as supplied to Sydney Municipal Council)
