

The Whisky of Exquis
I *
is
i
Advance
on all classes of
security
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Offices 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO "DAILY TELEGRAPH" NEW BUILDING -~JL
_ _ And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTACE BENNETT, Genera! Manager
eCream
/
Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN i
AND SUNBURN /
> Made in Australia by
ntKHXSIEAMStC
SYDNEY.
'k
%
r Take it back. * <’ \ 'V
.1 must have—
HUTTON’S
HAM'S ®L
BACON*
RAWSON MOODY ALL-STE£L FENCE
built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages over wooden
post fences, as it saves 80 per cc:.t. in erection
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particulars write to The Buawron Moony Mfg Co., 343 Kent St-,
Bydnev. or send for ?n illir-trated Catolos'ue B.
JIWKiiT made fruia these genuine Tablet*
is mrutuiijemleU by numerous uoeiuis as wang
highly nutritious and, invigorating for the
digestive organs.
H A N SEN'S
L.
*>- INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of- these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.f 279 George Street, Sydney .
s
mt}
roofing is economical.
“Not the same as others
Malthoid, when cared for. will last as long as any structure
©ver which it is placed; it will give the sort, of service you
have a right to demand; but, in addition—it will prove most
ECONOMICAIj in every way.
Go into the matter for yourself. Write for samples and illus-
trated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Paint 00. (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chains House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY-L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
k LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL: 8c AGRICULTURAL. ENGINEERS.
RAIL-WAV ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL. & FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER
DISCS.
ENLIST!
Young CORNSTALKS, GUMSUCKERS, CROWS, SAND- mm.
PIPERS, BANANALANDERS and TASMANIAN DEVILS
ENLIST,
and thus assure a
contented old age.
We are “KEEPING ON-KEEPING ON*' with married men and girls to conserve the
billets of the lads that left us to do their bit for the Empire.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER <& CO., Machinery Merchants. Head Officec " THE QUAY,** SYDNEY.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to tne Moutn.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 38.—N0. 1952.]
[Thursday, July 12, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Psychical Investigations——
A series of verbatim records of the author’s sittings with certain mediums, including that mentioned by
Sir Oliver Lodge in Raymond (page SCO).
The author presents the evidence which led him from agnosticism to the belief that human person-
ality survives bodily death. Later chapters deal with psychical phenomena in earlier times, the telepathic
difficulty, the influence of rapport objects, the subliminal consciousness, the relation of psychical research
to religion, and kindred matters.
By J. ARTHUR HfLL, author of “New Evidences in Psychical Research,” “Religion and Modern
Psychology,” “Spiritualism and Psychical Research,” etc.
PRICE, 8/6; Posted, 8/10.
COLE'S BOOK ARCADE,
348 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
And atBOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE
Hudson s Eumenthol Jujubes*
Sold
Everywhere
in Tins,
Price 1/6.
NO
•* '1
mttv*
Lo?
The Great Antiseptic
(or COUGHS, COLDS,
INFLUENZA AND
THE PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
HTOSON W ‘ "» S ““- «• Manufacture,
HUDSON 8 EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SVDNEY.
The Red Page
Werso by [?]
THE IWIHNNiNGL-
.. It was -not part of their Mood,
it cams B'ttivm very late
WithJfaM Qtewtpip make j-oos,
\VyG*rthc"'En9Ushr bjpun io H*t«,
They ■were srft euiijly mated,
q ■ ifpH p; ere iay,’m lii»g neatt
TUI cicr'u. coutd should be, proved,
Fro the ISugUsh began to
Their ■voices w&c'eeek'fipd low.
Their eyes wL’Z frrrfand straight.
There uas neither sign nor show,
When the English began to hate.
It was not preached to the crowd,
St. was not taught by the State.
No man spoke it aloud,
When the English began to hale.
It was not suddenly bred,
It will not swiftly abate,
Through the chill years ahead,
When Time shall count, from the date
That the English heg/in to hate.
THE CHILDREN.
These were our children who died for our
lands: they were dear in our sight.
We have only the memory left of their home
—treasured sayings and laughter.
The price of our loss shall be paid to ovr
hands, not another's hereafter.
Neither the Alien nor Priest shall decide on
it. That is our right.
But who shall return us the children?
At the hour the Barbarian chose to disclose
his pretences,
And raged against Man, they engaged, on
the breasts that they bared for us,
The first felon-stroke of the sword he had
longtime prepared for us —
Their bodies were all our defence while we
wrought our defences.
They bought us anew with their blood, for-
bearing to blame ns,
Those hours which we had not made good
when the Judgment o'er came us.
They believed us and jicrishcd for it. Our
statecraft, oTiFTearning
Delivered them bound to the Pit and alive w
to the burning
Whither then mini),fully hastened as jostling
for honor.
Not since hepybirth has our Earth seen such
worth loosed upon her.
Nor was their agony brief, or once only im-
posed on tligpi.
The wounded, the war-spent, the siqk
received no exemption:
Being cured they returned and endured and
achieved our redemption.
Hopeless themselves of relief, till Death,
marvelling, closed on them.
That flesh we had nursed from the first in
all cleanness was given
To corruption unveiled and assailed by the
m.aliqe of Heaven —
By the heart-shaking jests of Decay where
it lolled on the wires—
-7~ be blanched or gay-painted by fumes —
to be cindered by fires —
To be senselessly tossed and retossed in
stale mutilation
From crater to crater. For this we shall
take expiation.
But who shall return us our children?
From “A Diversity of Creatures.”
(Macmillan).
Fiction
That amazing vein of virility nampd Rud-
yard Kipling has almost petered out. His
latest A Diversity of Creatures
(Macmillan), is composed of 13 stories, seven
of which no magazine or publisher would
nowadays accept if signed by any other
name; while the remaining half-dozen strive
to recapture, and in “Mary I’ostgate.”
“Friendly Brook,” “In the Same Boat” and
“The Village that Voted the Earth was
Flat," do recapture something of The Man
Who Was. In “As Easy as ABC” Kipling
continues the vein he struck in “With the
Night Mail.” This picture of life in a.d.
2005 is devilishly clever and quite uncon-
vincing: the author makes the mistake of
dehumanising our posterity—these mortals
are as aloof from us as Wells’ Men in the
Moon. Kipling’s locomotive and his ship
that found herself were much more human.
Even in this story the five-plough cultivator,
electrically operated by the nice girl on the
verandah to attack the anchored airship, is
more alive than his human beings.
There are several stories of English
Hodge, the immemorial owner of England.
Since he has become a landed proprietor
Kipling has studied Hodge as ©nee he studied
the English Tommy. “Friendly Brook” must
be added .to his gallery of portraits of the
essential unromantic and un-moral English
rustic. There is more cleverness and less
conviction in Kipling’s story of two nerve
wrecks. If people on the edge of insanity
don't talk as Kipling makes them, they
ought to.
“The Village that Voted the Earth was
Flat” is an uproarious joke, where the
humor starting from an insignificant incident
is built up preposterously till it overlaps
Into the world’s press and towers till it sends
the British Parliament temporarily off its
head. It is one of the most ludicrous yarns
that Kipling ever wrote ; and though ug&tn
and again the whole, absurd edifice is m
danger of toppling over Kipling keeps in-
stable til! bis climax. When he tries this
game in another story about a swarm o*
bees he is badly stung. The joke is too small
to carry the yarn. . . ,
There are onlv two war stories, and one
of them, “Mary Postdate," is a masterpiece,
while the other is a delightful example ot
the restraint of art. And having wn.ten
these Kipling can print a senool story that
is hopelessly stodgy asd practically uoread-
able by man or boy. and another ‘1 ye-
croft” yam that is incredibly dreary, while
the rest of the stories are quite undistin-
guished. .
A horrible habit that is growing upon
Kipling is his frequent insistence that the
characters in his stories find humor where
unfortunately his reader doesn’t. He is
always showing us people “clinging to each
other for support” or “crumpling up” with
laughter for reasons which the dazed reader
cannot discover. This volume wifi do Kip-
ling’s reputation no good : only in “Mary
Postgate” has he reached his old level, and
his fall from that self-set standard has been
far indeed. Kipling to-day is judged by his
only rival —The Man Who Was. ihe verse
exhibits the same astonishing range from
fine to piffling.
J*
In its content Stephen McKenna's Sonia:
Between Two Worlds per
Dymock’s library) is curiously like Wells’s
Britliug, since it is a brilliant and compre-
hensive picture of England before and during
the war. The author states that for 30 years
he has lived among “the Governing Class” —
a title, he remarks, ■ already obsolescent, to-
gether with the England in which those
important personages in polities, journalism,
commerce and society flourished. McKenna
exposes for us the fetich of the English pub-
lic school, with its cruelty, its fagging, its
good tone and its failure to educate. The
aim of Melton was “to educig:e within narrow
limits that excluded modern history, eco-
nomics, English literature, science and
modern languages. We never strove to be
practical, and had a pathetic belief in the
validity of pure scholarship as an equipment
for. life.” The author has no illusions about
the English public school, nor about Oxford ;
he does not describe Oxford, he expresses its
soul, conveying an extraordinary impression
of reality by the things, patent to all who
have been to Oxford, that he fails to explain.
Thus he notes as a matter of importance that
in tiis time the only men except his / hero who
had a reputation outside their colleges were:
a youth who walked round Oxford of an
afternoon with a hawk on his wrist, another
who kept ped’gree blood-hounds, the presi-
dent of the 0.U.D.5.. and another chap who
removed the niiuUte-haud from the post-office
clock in St. Aldate’s every night of the
Michaelmas term. One of his characters is
a Marquess, enormously rich and quite use-
less—in fact, all the writer’s friends except
his Irish hero are shockingly rich.
The Marquess is proud of belonging to
an effete aristocracy. Here is his pro-
gramme : “I shall live abroad.” he says
mockingly, “and squander the rents that 1
wring from the necessitous poor. Come
back in time to shoot the birds or bunt the
foxes that have over-run my tenants’ land.
Go down to the House onee every few years
to vote against democratic measures. Marry
an actress of questionable virtue and die,
leaving a son who has only to take the
trouble to be born in order to become au
hereditary legislator and a permanent ob-
stacle to the people's will. It’ll be very hard
work, but someone must do it. or Drury
Lane and the Liberal Publication Depart-
ment would have to close dowu. That’s
what’s expected of tenth transmitters of
foolish faces, isn’t it?” When the writer
leaves Oxford he drifts into East End mis-
sion work. But “I doubted, and still doubt,
the possibility of friendship between a
Shad well stevedore and the angular, repel-
lent product of an English public school and
university: this is not to put one above the
other, but merely to disbelieve the existence
of a common intellectual currency.”
McKenna leads us by the arm through all
the labyrinths of society. We see
the Americanisation of women going on un-
checked —“if indeed the American girl -he a
social prostitute who would sell herself to
the highest bidder and give as little as pos-
sible in return.” The author adds; “I pri-
vately believe the breed to be indigenous to
the wealthier strata of English society.”
And Sonia, the heroine, has all the beauty,
some of the virtues and all the vices of her
sort. She is merely the soulless professional
society beauty. Her mother's view of the
position of women is typical. “It depends so
much on the woman, don’t you (hink? If
a girl is voung and pretty and has a little
money and goes about in society, don’t you
know? she usually makes a good match. As
for the others" The author really for-
gets what their fate was to be; but doubt-
less their prospects depended, too, on the
possession of a determined mother
The picture drawn of this antebellum
society suggests the parallel of the last days
of the Ancient Regime, a year before the
French Revolution. The author believes the
condition of England m those yeais to ha
been “essentially neurotic. And
we hear, in the voice of the remarkable hcio,
the mtitterings of lt was
a soeietv honeycombed with German
once; and when the deluge .came, there was
Sir Adolf Erckmann, a typical Englishman
and millionaire, still in society.
“These Ghermans wand a lezzou,. he jTiinted
into his beard. And we ll give id em,
beiu? They thought Bridain wouldn t gom
in. We gan deil a differend story, hem.'
So the war comes and finds a use tor these
lordlings and dancing men; it is even able
ultimately to make use of Sonia; Death
lentlessly weeds out these not ignoble mefli-
cients; and Fate has for the splendid hero a
dreadful end. So McKenna writes the best
record yet published of that o.d smash-l
civilisation— for the new generation that wiU
have to carry on.
J*
These modern realistic autobiographical
novels, of which the output of English worth-
while fiction is practically composed, seem
so easy to do. All the author does is to take
a few years of his own life and tell us
pleasantly what happened to him during
that period. He needn't trouble to devise a
plot, for the ever-flowing stream ot lire is
his plot. The youthful hero has to make a
living: lie meets this woman and that: he
falls in and out of love, and gradually grows
up. When he has reached page 300 he stops.
But it is all so naturally and brightly done
that the reader feels that he has made a
good meal out of a slice of life.
House-mates, by J. D. Beresford (Cassell,
per Dymock's Library), is an admirable
example of this genre. It is the stoiy o. a
young architect, and chiefly the story ot
the occupants of the house in which lie takes
rooms. There are several Germans, a suf-
fragette, two alleged Australians, a genteel
prostitute, a dramatic critic, and two girls
who want to go on the stage. The architect s
<son tract with" his fellow-lodgers develops his
character—that is all the plot. . A subject
not usually treated of in fiction is the rela-
tionship between the two girls: one is
desperately in love with the other.
“You needn’t be upset about it. It’s quite
clean; respectable even. You see, Helen is
not the type of woman who attracts a man
—and she has been starved, if you know
what I mean, on that side. And she appealed
to Judith. Judith did fall in love with her
in one sense. Helen was new to her in every
way; new ideas, and so on.” So the hero’s
love for Judith has to meet an unexpected
obstacle. Helen is desperately jealous of the
man ; and his love affair is a contest between
him and Helen for Judith. Helen’s obses-
sion leads to a scene daring even in fiction.
Beresford contrives to give his narrative
an extraordinary realism b.v what is really
a trick: lie continually intrudes into his
story with comment and self-criticism. Thus
lie assumes dint his heroine is looking over
his shoulder as he writes: “We have laughed
together over m.v stiff mechanical account of
our meetings, and of the more or less in-
vented conversations that I have put down.”
And at the end he explains that he began
this book in order to forget his experiences
at the war. He was in danger, after his
convalescence from wounds and shock, of
becoming insane; but as he went on he
began to take a delight in the telling of the
story. “I invented conversations to fit my
memory of actual events. Sometimes I was
strongly tempted to invent incidents also,
and I might have succumbed to that temp-
tation if I had had more confidence in my
ability as a romancer.”
And if J. D. Beresford wasn’t once an
architect he is an extremely clever novelist
in convincing us that his hero was.
Australian
There is pleasant poetry in the modest
offering of H. W. Stewart, A Tribute of
Verse (Examiner, Launceston, Tas., sold
for the Y.M.C.A., and on sale at Y.M.C.A.,
Sydney), The writer of the introduction
remarks: “Had fate willed it otherwise the
author would he fighting in Flanders.” Some
of these simple poems have appeared in this
journal. Stewart can paint a dainty picture
like this: —
The sun has kissed the orchard trees,
And they are laughing into bloom;
And wattle's gold embroideries
The hills illume.
But he can do more than that, as is attested
by several excellent sonnets. None of these
pieces actually demanded to be written: but
this page is glad that they were written.
Two examples of his work insist on quota-
tion. but it must be admitted that the rest
of his verses hardly reach their standard.
The first is one of two sonnets entitled "The
Unmarked Road”:—
Princess Mona: a romantic poetical drama
by E. Coungeau (W. Brooks, Sydney), is
bound in a beautiful blue, and the three
illustrations in D. 11. Souter’s seventh, or
scene-painting, manner are in excellent taste.
<2*
T. C. Wollaston bursts forth upon Adelaide
with a frenzied demand that every man who
seduces, or is seduced by, a girl shall be
compulsorily married to the lady, provided
there is a child or the lady offers .evidence
of its arrival later on. “Is it fair —is it not
rather infamous —that the man should not
only crawl out of his share* of the penalty,
but, by escaping, brand the woman for all
time?.... No age-of consent limits, no gaol-
ing of the father will help the child one
straw. . . .The knowledge that she could com-
pel marriage would give the woman the best
hope to win a cowardly man.” Usually the
girl suffers in silence rather than "publish
her shame”; but with the State behind her
she would promptly hand out the villain’s,
or the victim’s, name. By Compulsory Mar-
riage (G. Hassell, Adelaide, 6d.) Wollaston
considers that there would be no more abor-
tion and very few seduction cases. We
wonder. The author, however, goes fully
into the objections. To the grave possibility
that boys and girls would be driven into
loveless marriages, he quite ineffectively re-
plies that the girls like the brutes well
enough to sin with them, and therefore there
would be a reasonable hope of happiness. A
much more reasonable hope of divorce. A
mere liking to sin with a brute is not one
of the best reasons for marriage; indeed, it
is doubtful whether such a reason is to be
found in the very frank statements on this
subject in the Anglican Church service. The
second objection is that: “Young men are,
and have ever been, as wax in the hands of
Delilah, and Delilah’s name would be legion
when the end of her art was, not a penalty,
but a prize.” He also notes that the Delilahs
of life are too clever to have children. Still,
if Delilah knew she could acquire a compul-
sory husband and “respectability” by the
mere price of a baby, she would be clever
enough to produce that baby. Wollaston’s
theory is that every young man, knowing the
awful, penalty, would flee from temptation;
to which the Religious Editor, appealed to as
an expert upon this important subject,
merely remarked that it would make a bloke
very careful. Personally, this page would be
glad to see the scheme tried—in Adelaide.
The illustration, in this page, of Flecker's
elimination of the Superfluous Adjective re-
calls to “Dominie Sampson” the opposite
course taken by as great a poet. Robert
Burns wrote his original “Ye Banks and
Braes o’ Bonnie Doon” in a shorter measure
than the one that is now famous. In order
to fit it to a certain tune he put into each
alternate line an extra foot. The better and
original version goes thus:—
\e Banks and Braes o’ Bonnie Doon,
How can ye bloom sae fair?
How can ye sing, ye little birds?
And me sae fu’ o’ care.
YeMI break my heart, ye little birds,
That wanton through the thorn;
Ye mind me o’ departed joys,
1 hat never can return.
Aft hae I roved by bonnie Doon,
To see the woodbine twine,
" here ilka bird sang o’ his love,
And sae did 1 o’ mine.
Wi liehtsome heart I pu’d a rose
From aff its thorny tree;
But my fause lover staw the rose,
An’ left the thorn wi* me.
To some the Iciss of Death is swift surprise:
Maybe in some wild charge they choke and
fall;
One rashly risks a hidden sniper's hall,
Clutches his bleeding breast, drops down and
dies.
To others. Death in more deliberate guise,
A midst the guicl of the hospital
T or long weeks holds the waning lives in
thrall —
But each will face him fair with fearless eyes.
They never fearedl to leave the city s path
For ways'no milestones marked nor man's
abodes , , . ,
Where Loneliness becomes a bosom friend —
Why should they fear to take the hand of
Death,
And with him leave Life's lanes for un-
marked roads, •
Although they cannot see the journey s end?
And this is worth remembering; “Australia's
Dead.” gJUIM
Not dead —they cannot die
While in our hearts they live,
Maybe some proud ally
A sepulchre will give;
Maybe a hostile sky
Their helpless dust will grieve —
But, yet, they cannot die
While in our hearts they live.
We may grow old, and die;
They live for ever young,
For song shall testify,
Wherever songs are sung,
Of deeds that far outvie
The deeds blind Homer strung
In deathless verse —we die,
They live for ever young.
They live while we remember,
They die if we forget —
Now comes again December,
And wakens old regret,
For last year's dying ember
With failure seemed to set;
Fear not —only remember
They die if we forget.


White Rotary Grand Mission Style.
THIS is a three-quarter cabinet
made up in the popular Mission
style, richly finished in either
quarter-sawed golden oak or dull
Mission finish —an attractive yet
unique design—furnished with nickel-
plated head-wheel, automatic lift,
symmetrically built wooden frames to
replace the regular iron legs, three
drawers at each end of table, and at
the bottom two large roomy receptacles
where books, music, etc., may be
stored. Pitted with ball-bearings and
supplied with the latest steel attach-
ments.
THE WHITE MACHINE is con-
structed primarily for service—all-
round, efficient service, good for to-
day, to-morrow and for long years
of active use. At the same time it
is a beautifully designed machine,
ornamental in the highest degree
and lit to grace any home.
AFINELY-C (INSTRUCTED
MACHINE, with nickel-plated
hand-wheel, automatic lift,
beautiful swell front, golden oak wood-
work, quarter-sawed, hanging centre
panel and one drawer at each end of
table. Each machine fitted with ball-
bearings and supplied with a complete
set of the latest-style steel attachments.
THE WHITE STITCH REGU-
LATOR can be changed in an
instant simply by pushing a little
lever up or down as desired. It’s
easy to duplicate a stitch without
losing any time in experimenting,
by referring to number on stitch
regulator plate.
White Automatic Lift Cabinet.
N®
;i~i
A STRIKINGLY beautiful Rolled
Edge Renaissance design, full
Drop Cabinet Machine. It is
the very latest and most attractive,
moderate-priced cabinet made by us.
Furnished in Golden Oak quarter-
sawed woodwork, finely finished, fitted
with ball-bearings, automatic lift,
nickel-plated head-wheel, two recep-
tacles on inside of door, and a complete
set of the latest-style steel attachments.
Agents for the World-Renowned
WHITE Sewing Machines
All Over Australia.
BUY THE WHITE SEWING MACHINE—
To turn out more and better sewing with less labor;
For its light-running, easy-sewing qualities;
For its fine mechanical adjustment;
For its beauty of construction and durability.
For its incomparable labor-saving devices, which are exclusively
WHITE—for example, its tension indicator, etc.; for its attach-
ments and improved features, which enable unfinished work to
be removed and replaced at will.
uti nr
rr<
era
f(CCl
«((
"/(
7'
m
"s
Wr.
■"W
rn
iVm
'»W
m
r-
QQO
o
o
o.o
o
:
o
o
o
o
o
o
oo
o
:
d
o
te
=
<d
o
o
o
<o
CP
o
<d
THE WHITE DROP HEAD AUTO-
MATIC LIFT is the latest improve-
ment in SEWING MACHINES, and
is a WHITE feature.
ALL WHITE MACHINES arc fitted with Ball
Bearings and supplied with a Full Set of the
King Steel Attachments.
The Four-drawer Drop Head White, showirg the Automatic Jit Partly Open.
THE FOUR-DRAWER WHITE is an elegantly-constructed Machine, fitted with
automatic lift, by means of which the simple raising of the cover brings head of
machine automatically up into position ready for use. This machine has nickel-
plated head-wheel, hanging centre panel and two drawers at each end of table, with
beautiful swell front furniture of golden oak. quarter-sawed and finely polished. A most
attractive and popular style. Each machine fitted with ball-bearings and supplied with
a full set of the latest-style steel attachments.
Duplicate Parts of the World-Renowned Light-Running Silent
White Sewing Machines Always Available at the Agencies in the
several States, or from the Sole Australasian Agents.
WHITE Sewing Machines are sold all over Australia.
Price Lists may be obtained from any of the Agencies
BRISBANE—Shaw & Sons Ltd., The Granite
Buildings, 24-1 Queen Street; also at
Toowoomba, Bundaberg & Mackay.
KS*s2
White Three-quarter Drop Cabinet.
A HANDSOMELY constructed
three-quarter drop Cabinet, en-
closing a White Sewing Machine
ready for use, fitted with ball-bearings,
automatic lift, nickel-plated head-
wheel, with five drawers on one side
and two receptacles on the other, all
enclosed. A very choice design. Fur-
nished with a complete set of the
latest-style steel attachments.
THE KING SET OE STEEL
ATTACHMENTS,
Nickel Plated, supplied with each
Machine, is made up of Huffier,
Shirring Plate, Cnderbraider and
Foot Binder, and five Hemmers of
different sizes, embody the most
essential features. They are easily
put on and taken off, and they do
the work thoroughly. Each set is
neatly packed in a velvet-lined
metal case.
Six-drawer Drop Head.
• i
ii
no
CQO
A PRACTICAL, every-day White,
totally unlike any other machine
on the market in point of con-
struction, and yet built along har-
monious, beautiful lines; It has three
drawers on each end table, hanging
centre panel, beautiful swell front
• furniture of golden oak, quarter-sawed
and finely polished, and automatic
lift, which by the mere raising of
cover, the head of machine is brought
into position ready for use.
THE WHITE PATENT TEN-
SION INDICATOR.—The only de-
vice of its kind, is exclusively
White, and is a great time saver.
It can be loosened or tightened or
will duplicate a stitch instantly.
Be sure to see how practical it is.
on2-drawer Whi f e.
000
oo
AF I N E L Y-O R NAMENTED
MACHINE with nickel-plated
hand-wheel, beautiful bent-wood
cover, drop leaf, long centre drawer.
Finished in beautifully-figured Oak or
Walnut woodwork. Each Machine
fitted with ball-bearings and supplied
with a full set of the latest-style steel
attachments.
TOWNSVILLE—McKimmin & Richardson Ltd., Criterion House.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
VICTORIA—White Depot Pty. Ltd., 10 Royal Arcade, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA William Sandover & Co., Hay Street, Perth .
N.S.W.—Anthony Hordern & Sons, Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.


Ufi!
Ml
'■
%
a
is
gft
y'te
\
e
■^t«
r
.22 Caliber
Rifles and Cartridges
The pleasure of shooting a
.22 caliber rifle indoors or
outdoors depends not only
on the skill of the shooter,
but upon the accuracy of
the equipment used. The
utmost care is taken in the
manufacture of Winchester
.22 caliber rifles and cart-
ridges, and for that reason
they shoot with invariable
accuracy. Winchester .22
caliber rifles are made in
various models and styles,
and Winchester .22 caliber
cartridges are loaded with
Smokeless, “Lesmok,” and
Black powder. It is there-
fore easy to suit your taste
and get the best possible
equipment if you will select
i the reliable w brand.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
Reliability Supremacy
exclusively Held by tbe Ariel
Unrivalled in excellence of construction and in efficiency of
road service, there is no rival to Ariel Reliability—no
this 6n^er reliability supremacy. Read
Arid is the only motor-cycle that has ever secured in one season
Z eam Prizes in the English and Scottish Six Days’ Trials and
the First Prize in the Irish End-to-End Trial. trials, and
If you insist that your after-war motor-cycle must be an all-qualitv machine
M Arid ownff r U ' economical and consistently reliable—you are going to be
Ariel Pedal Cycles have, given equally good service for over 40 years.
32-PAGE ART LIST MAILED POST FREE.
ARIEL WORKS LTD. 36 b °urnbrook,
w *“ 1 L- ' , J birmmugham, eng.
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street.
ADEEAIDE: 152 Rundle Street.
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street.
Special Offers in Guns & Rifles.
trade mark LOOK, SPORTSMEN !
YOUR OUTLAY ! 1 ' CONSIDER
sport for 51- 100, whereas cartridges will cost you 15/- 100‘ V ° U gCt the Same
D.B.M.L. GUN. best barrels, walnut stock. Usual Price, £4.
S.B.M.L. GUN. Usual Price. 25/- . £ALE PRICE, 40/.
aB f^ D SSS. 12 : bore ’
SPORTING RABBIT RIFLE "pricf" V*7 ‘ ' 7- RR ?P E ' £3/15/-
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-Post Free' on Application
SMALL ARMS CO., 229 ELIZABETH STREET. MELROUPMp
Hurrai
Here’s
relief from
thirst; here’s
fresh vigour
for the boys
at the Front and
workers at home!
wE%
Soothes, refreshes,
and sustains through
weary hours of sus-
pense and struggle,
It helps appetite and di-
gestion too. Delicious and ,
antiseptic wholesome and
beneficial.
A boon to smokers. Send some
packets or a box to your soldier
lad.
3d. per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners, etc., or send 3 penny
stamps for trial packet to J. C. Gambles
& Coy, Commerce House, Melbourne,
The A Flavour Lasts l >
MADE
IN
AUSTRALIA
Sealed
tight
—Kept
tight
Chew
it after
every
meal
75
\
m
VT
%
4&
m
fU
%
(A
»5
a?
1
%
1
ft
/
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
hONTSERR^T
SAUCE
9
&
du
c
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
lime juice.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it tbe finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
I 1 an y b °dy charges you more than 6d. for
TT R<f RR Dg t e ofFn ° f The Bulletin, send
£1 6s Gd. to 214 George Street, Sydney and
it will be posted to you for one year. ’ d
Rare you n
uptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT * SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
descriptive pamphlet posted free.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
iNature. For service, comfort and good
lealth artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
Wnl as long as Possible by
} og them clean. Cold water and soap
iniff water & re useful, but are somewhat
netfectua l . Rough powders, such as cuttle-
■ , ciabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
die too severe on the enadiel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
~ P r opared to clean the teeth, sweeten
e breath, harden the gums and disinfect
• ( thus Preventing decay).
rA is therefore regarded as “the
peifcction of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
u Art'r F ree sample posted.
hOCRE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
'L’UETn takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


How
I Darkened My
Grey Hair.
Lady Gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years I tried to restore my grey hair
with the prepared dyes
1: „ tai i n !h none them gave satisfac-
tion and they were all expensive. I finallv
came across a simple recipe which I mixed
at home that gives wonderful results. I
gave the recipe, which is as follows, to a
number of my friends, and they are all
delighted with it To 7oz. of water add a
small box of Orlex Compound and loz. of
bay rum. These ingredients can be bought
at any chemist's at very little cost. Use
every other day until the hair becomes the
required shade. It will not only darken
the grey hair but removes dandruff and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not sticky or
gieasy, and will not rub off or stain the
scalp. —Advt. j-g
One of the best
The man at sea is guard-
ing you ! Do you look
after him ? Why not send
him a regular supply of
‘ Deßeszke” Cigarettes
— he's worthy of the very
best. Buy them yourself
and post the parcel with
your own hands—then
you know they must reach
him safely.
Sold Everywhere
kV
m
'M ®
Jfquaperia
(HARR3CATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are °well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all chemists
Distributing Agents:— R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
STOP
SMOKING IT
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes out ten minutes for tobacco to
change the oeats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’landJ
writes: “1 tvas a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for V, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
- [2.
mf Imk 0
H as
m
(D*S’A)
GAN
&Bkess Desks'
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
In Grandpa’s Courting Days
Yes, as long ago as that —there was a standard, safe-
and-sure, proved effective family remedy for
all throat and chest troubles, and its name was
A _______ __r
1
To-day it is still the safest, speediest,
surest Remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis Whooping Cough and
Influenza, relief of Asthma and a
preventive of Pneumonia. If it isn’t
Bonnington’s it isn't any good.
f Large & Small Bottles. 1/6 & 2/6
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes—and must have —the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
Melljrft Food
Mellin s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial food.
Set out to feed
babyright. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most advan-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, “The
aie of Infants in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
%
a
ChangeTyres
in 5 Minutes
by the Clock
FIRESTONE RIMS for
light cars are built by tyre
makers, with the idea up-
permost of giving the tyre
the utmost protection a
firm, true, unyielding bear-
ing surface, giving even
wear and extra mileage.
T!restotte
Light Car Wheels
Four wheels and spare rim, are moderate in price.
A car can be equipped by anyone in an hour’s time,
lyre changing is then a matter of five minutes,
owing to the construction of Firestone rims. Loosen
o bolts, and slip off tyre. Ask for prices.
Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
F - A- McCarty & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Victoria, & Tasmania
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
. Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatnck & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages.
Write for Illustrated Literature
Firestone Quick Detachable Rims are made
also for all types and sizes of tyres.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winter.
In twilight hours the air is grey,
And livid grins the ghastly west;
between black night and ashen day
The weary wind can find no rest,
But streams along lamenting boughs,
-,-Ahd sighing lifts, and wailing dies,
W hile starless gleam the pallid rifts
Along the wild, cloud-haunted skies.
But Life close-hid in warm retreat
r frills to her leaping heart to hear
Death s mantle on her window beat
As. impotent, he hovers near ;
Laughing, she leans above the hearth,
. , listening, tastes her triumph sweet,
\\ hue night creeps up through barren wastes
W ith tear-blind eyes and falt’ring feet.
Victoria.
SYD. C.
Old Mates.
They drift away, the early mates
That shared our youthful loves and hates.
Set far apart the tracks they tread,
By brave resolve or impulse led
Where linger the alluring Fates.
\\ here are they now? No friend relates
Their tale; but, through the gloomy gates
That guard the regions of the dead,
They drift away.
And in the camp-fire’s fitful flame
I see them passing, one by one,
k toopcd with the weight of care, or shame :
Or proud with war’s undying fame —
So, in the dusk, their life’s work done,
They drift away.
N.S.W
GORDON BENNETT.
Holiday Humor.
Life grows too circumspect. Let play
prevail!
Put back the clock of Time to half-past Age.
And fly with Youth from old Convention’s
cage,
To swing with Nonsense where her boy-boats
sail!
Oh, drop the cloak of Thought, and, in a gale
Of gladness, whirl me over Reason’s stage,
Fast Sense and Logic’s pallid heritage,
To dance, Fun-frolicked, through a daisy
dale.
Dear love, my hands are laughter-linked in
thine;
The moonlight marries us to maddest mirth ;
And Folly’s weaving us her youngest hour
xo bind our spirits in a mesh divine.
A wreath of play, a kiss, a bed of earth :
And love and life are simple as a flower.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS
Farewell, Soldier Boy!
lie kissed me twice and stroked my hair,
t “Good-bye,” he said. “Good-bye
Until we’ve finished Over There—
Our colors glorify.
The trooper’s waiting at the pier ;
The gangway’s coming down—
Good-bye, beloved.” I stayed the tear....
Oh, freckled boy in brown!
He closed his arm about me then:
“Farewell, sweetheart, farewell.
The bugles blow in France for men;
The charging whistles swell.
My courage will be braced and fed
On fields incarnadine
By thoughts of you and hours long sped.”
Oh, freckled boy o’ mine!
The troopship nosed the waterway.
“Adieu,” he called. “Adieu.”
“Come back, beloved,” I choked to say;
“I cannot part from you !”
Then in my heart a vision flamed ;
I thrilled with pride and joy—
Go forth,” I cried, “where honor’s claimed!
Go, freckled soldier boy !”
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
On the Manly Boat.
I saw Grey Eyes on the Manly boat
A decade of years ago,
Neath a gossamer veil on the breeze afloat
And under a brow of snow.
The scene was perfect, with never a flaw
And the light fell thrillingly ;
I>ut it somehow seemed that the eyes I saw
Greyed sky and shore and sea.
I’ve seen eyes since that were quite as grey—
Rain-grey or the grey of mist—
But they passed with the hour and place
away,
While the veiled, grey eyes persist.
They come, and vanish, and come again,
Soft-lit 'neath that brow of snow;
And they hold me now as they held’me then,
And I wonder why it is so.
I know not why, through the years remote,
And the flow of change and chance,
Those haunting eyes on the Manly boat
Should chain me with their glance.
And yet, though the Why elude my wit,
I look through the crowded past,
And know there is something more to it
That I’ll come to see at last.
sudden something shall make me wise
The touch of a hidden spring—■
And there you’ll gaze ’neath the arching
skies
New-washed by the rains of Spring.
And I’ll know the thing that you yearned to
say
’Neath your gossamer veil afloat,
y° u sat silence that memoried dav
Grey Eyes on the Manly boat!
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Perdriau Rubber Driving Belts
ss
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
FOR EFFICIENCY:
- - -r> 1 1 T) fVia *rv
The -rip of the Rubber Belt on the pulley en s ures almost entire
absence of slipping, thus transmitting a maximum of horse power.
RELIABILITY:
Made in continuous lengths from specially-woven «
without joints, Rubber Beltmg is absolutely reliable. AH materia
used is stretched before manufacture, resulting m finished belt
being 1 practically without stretch and perfectly true running.
ECONOMY:
Low first cost, long service under heavy working conditions
freedom from repairs make Rubber Belts the most economical
on the market. No dressing is required.
SAMPLES, CATALOGUES AND FURTHER PARTICULARS ON REQUEST.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Australian Manufacturers of all Robber Goods,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. Works: Drummoyne, Sydney.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
PLUME BEMZINE
does not vary
MAKE a note of that, Sir! ‘‘Plume” is the same
pure, clean, powerful spirit the year
on the hottest day or the coldest night. “Plume”
is as unvarying as the Sphinix, each gallon being of uni-
form quality throughout, and reaching you in the same
pure, dependable form as it leaves our Refinery.
Many Motorists praise its “kick,” appreciating the
extra mileage it gives.
So, when next you are going to fill, turn in at a “Plume’
sign. All garages sell “Plume.”
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
P.R. 3
Hf'lume
X
-
SglllSl
w
X
in
e
Urvvariable!
WHY BDY TYKES
BY THE POUND!
1" It has been the custom to improve Tyres by adding
weight and making them heavy. GOODRICH TYRES
are much Lighter and Stronger and Tougher than other
makes, being free from the whitish sandpapery ingredients
that are Heaviest and inert.
Observe that every pound saved on the WEIGHT of Tyres ,
or any part of a Car below the Springs, is equal to 30lb.
when supported above the Springs. Ask your Engineer !
The thicker and heavier the Tyre the stiffer it becomes,
causing internal friction, heat and harder driving. If
this is good, why not use solids that would run 15,000 or
20,000 miles on the average pleasure Car?
While some makers have improved by giving more
weight, the GOODRICH has given more size, and make
their Millimeter Sizes FULL SIZE , making a stronger
and nimbler Tyre.
Until now the average Millimeter Tyre has measured
when new (all makes)
105 Millimeter Section, approximately 97 m-m
„ „ „ 110 „ '
135 i 25 ;;
Thus a GOODRICH Tyre say 880 by 120 will
measure about 5 Millimeters smaller than the ordinary
880 x 135, and all this tremendously important increase
in size at NO increase in price.
DUVAL ®. CO.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., ADELAIDE; A. C. MacCALLUM, PERTH;
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


The Bulletin
Re p istered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.YV. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 33. —No. 1952.
THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1917.
Price 6d.
SAFE ENOUGH-BUT WILL IT EVER GET THERE?
THE RIPER: “I wish someone would light a fire under this beast. If I ean't get him along I'll have to risk a fall off th other.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macluod, of
-Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Jhe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of tee
Co., 2Li George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Fur £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have * The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to an t
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to ant address abroad, £l. 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
•not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver , B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Franciseo; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City Neivs Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home Neivs Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; 81 oz. to 10oz., 21 d. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1917.
THE GARDEN OF EDEN.
According to the Cologne Gazette “the
world must continue to bleed, neutrals must
hunger and nations must be consumed in the
revolution of battle to enable England to
possess the Garden of Eden.” In a bigger
sense than the German newspaper intends,
the statement may be accepted. All demo-
cracies worthy of the name want the Garden
of Eden for their own use—not an area
between the Tigris and Euphrates, or even a
tropic jungle of immense prospective wealth,
but the settled peace and calm of the best
possible human conditions which the Garden
typifies. To achieve that, no sacrifice of
blood or treasure can be too great, if only the
thing can. be made a permanency. That the
civilisation before the war represented no
such ideal condition for mankind does not re-
quire emphasising; but if the smash of
Kaiserism and the final rooting out of the
imperial idea can bring the world appreciably
nearer to it, all the suffering may yet be well
worth while. The whole world appears to
have gone into the melting-pot. Crowns,
systetns, men, institutions, reputations, reli-
gions, hopes, dreams and boasts are being
stirred up with blood, tears, cordite, steel and
win-the-war propaganda, while hunger, bate
and fear make the triple flux for the mass.
Nobody can even guess in what shape or con-
sistency the world will appear when the hear
of the furnace goes down. War is in the
nature of experimental chemistry; and no
experiment on the scale of the present war or
with anything like the multiplicity of ingredi-
ents has ever been known before. People
who regard its present development as a
triumph of democracy are probably right.
The freer nations are more than holding then-
own, and their ultimate triumph appears cer-
tain ; but when the tumult is over and demo-
cracy is proclaimed the winner, it will still be
far from clear what has actually happened
or at what point in the history of human
evolutifin we have arrived. The plain fact is
that democracy beyond a certain point does
not know its own mind, and has only the
haziest notions of the things it is aiming at.
While there is a tyranny to be overthrown or
an injustice to fight, democracy makes no
mistake about things. If the people under-
stand the situation, they can be trusted to
»r.t riuht.lv as lone as their purpose is the
plain destruction of something evil and in-
jurious. Wheu, however, it comes to the
democracy going forward and doing really
constructive work, the failure is usually
apparent. The people saved from oppressive
and immediate burdens no longer know* their
own minds. As in the case of some South
American republics, they may allow their
leaders to take up wild-cat adventures of
aggression against other States, or, as in the
case of Australia, they may allow politicians
to fuddle away the promise of the future
through mere incapacity to do otherwise,
while they centre their whole attention on an
extra shilling a day. Democracy, according
to Biglow, gives every man the right to be
his own oppressor; but most democracies
lamely pass that right on to petty and often
quite unnecessary officials. The man with
the loudest voice too often assumes the tem-
porary kingship; and the effort which might
go to improving general conditions exhausts
itself in dethroning him and placing another
of the same type in office. So freedom is free
to slay itself; and the remains of old bad sys-
tems mock the new lack of system out of
countenance, while fools declare that a king
is better than a ballot-box.
Yet the Garden of Eden does, in some
vague way remain in the public mind as an
ideal. Always there is the notion that while
the people rule there is a general trend
towards perfection of government, and that
only time —a great deal of it—is required to
put everything right. Doctrinaire Socialists
of various groups preach the all-for-each and
each-for-all doctrine in a dozen different
fashions; and their mixed propaganda has
soaked into the public intelligence to a suffi-
cient extent to account for that forward
movement of the State to replace the indivi-
dual in certain directions which is character-
istic of most democracies. The trend of
things in most countries where people have
votes is in the direction of a kind of commu-
nism, though the voters as a whole have very
little desire for real communism and suffer
mild irritation at every restriction placed on
their personal liberty. Democracy, however,
permits such attempts and then overthrows
the thing it has allowed when the burden
becomes irksome, but never tries to clearly
define its own aims and say what sort of a
Garden of Eden it desires to enter. Progress
of any sort along such lines must be slow;
and, wearied with hope deferred, or mad-
dened by the sheer stupidity of' the see-saw
movement, the anarchist arises shouting
“Down with everything! All government is
at fault! The only way to enter the Garden
is to bomb down the fences.” In reality the
fault lies with the people themselves, who
insist upon a cross-eyed view of things, and
who, seeing two divergent paths, imagine that
they can follow them both at the same time.
That an ideal communism of closest organi-
sation which would give material advantages
at the cost of all personal liberty might exist is
always within the scope of possibilities. That
a partial communism wfith some elements of
individual freedom still conserved and the
State activities enormously extended might
be brought into being if all administrators
were honest and the community itself edu-
cated to the point of understanding why it
w r as coerced in certain directions seems plain
enough. But another and a different course
altogether is possible to a democracy, and one
which will in no way mix with the other.
That course is to reduce the functions of gov-
ernment to the minimum, and within certain
very wide limits to allow the people their
absolute freedom. The republics of South
Africa alone of modern democracies adopted
this plan; and the fact that they had the
misfortune to sit down on an extensive gold-
mine and so met disaster does not prove
their theory to have been wrong. Certainly
in the matter of developing a sturdy patriot-
ism which panned out in the most stubborn
military defence ever put up by any small
nation the individual-liberty idea made good.
Yet they had less government and machinery
of government in the whole of the two
republics than seems to be required for the
people of an Australian shire.
The Australian democracy is probably the
most uncertain in purpose of all the world’s
more or less free peoples. With no oppres-
sion to war against save that of the importer
and a few ancient laws handed down from
the days of the chain-gang and triangles, the
constructive progress made has been of the
slightest. Here and there a State coal-mine
or publicly-owned fish-shop stands as an in-
dication of a trial trot in the direction of
communism. Lethargic railways, which from
their direction and arrangement shout defi-
ance to all strategy of trade, are run in the
interests of joint inconvenience. There is a
public Post Office which delivers letters if its
minor officials feel inclined ; and some sort
of a defence system is alleged to exist, though
just now swallowed up in a slipshod and un-
comfortable voluntaryism. But there is any
quantity of machinery for collecting taxes,
and there are huge burdens of public debt
representing money raised to carry out wx>rk
which in most cases was done in the wrong
way. There are shoals of legislative bodies,
governors, aldermen and councillors; and
officials by the gross block the public
thoroughfares in every city. There are also
Price-Fixing Boards, a Wheat Pool, Wages
Boards, a fleet of Commonwealth-owned
ships, an Arbitration Court and other alleged
communal conveniences which may or may
not serve a democratic purpose; but there
are few roads, fewer ports and the attempts
to develop the continent have the mark
neither of sincerity nor of fixed purpose.
Of all countries Australia is the most-gov-
erned, but so extensive and complicated are
the means of government that to keep the
machine moving appears to require the full
effort of the democracy without leaving any
energy over to inquire into the question
whether the machine does or does not produce
any results. It is quite time that the people
of this continent made up their minds in
which direction they want to go. The
Garden of Eden may lie either way—either
in the direction of a close communism or a
wide individual liberty with government re-
duced to the minimum. The one point which
stands out clearly is that you cannot go in
both directions at once. If Australia wants
closer organisation for the elimination of Pri-
vate Enterprise, let us begin by seeing that
we have men in office who can carry out such
a scheme and safeguarding ourselves by effec
tive punishments for pohtmians who attemp
public enterprises and muddle them to disa
ter. If. on the other hand, we want indru
dual liberty, let us smash up ' line ;^ h i f
the complicated machine which merely im
tates us by its useless and cumbersome turn
ing. and. with half a dozen good laws to re-
strain private rapacity, set to work to do the
thing we have decided that the State cannot
effectively carry out. There is a Garden of
Eden somewhere, but you can t get your lett
foot in while your riabt is climbing a Hi 1 o
Despond seven miles away.
THE PASSING OF THE KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mightiest hunter and skilled with spears,
Schooled in the cunning of bow and sword,
Back in the ages my tribal peers
Made me the tribal lord;
Proven was I and of warlike pride.
Ruling by might and my kinsmen’s love,
Wider than theirs were my shoulders wide,
My stature a foot above;
Fleet as the panther, and bearded brown,
With the claw-scars white on my breast and
side , _ , ...
Where the wild bear slashed as I beat him
down,
Tawny and eagle-eyed ;
Neither by sleight of the tongue nor tone,
Chieftain by wit or the words I said.
But by tbe club and the axe of stone,
Driving, I also led.
For this was the law and the peoples plan:
That he who was king should be first a man.
After, I died ; and the later years
Took me and vestured my soul afresh,
Called me again to the clang of spears
And the shock of the steel on flesh,
Taught me strange fashions of war and wear
For the pelt of the bear and the axe of stone,
Clad me with cuisse and with coudibre,
Hauberk and gambison ;
Cruel, yet braver than most men are,
Fallen on wider and newer ways,
I strayed from the path of my early star
And the kinship of cruder days.
For this is the way of kings, to forget
That the soul of the knight in the rust-red
coat
Is the soul of the serf in the pasture set,
With the collar about his throat.
So I prospered, nor dreamed of time to be
When the crown of my pride should be torn
from me.
Haughty, believing that naught was strong
But the right of the strength I had always
known,
That the folk who had fought for me over-
long
In quarrels they did not own
Should march and obey through the after-
ward,
I straddled the charger and drained the horn.
Squandered and feasted, and followed hard
The deer through the growing corn ;
Gathered me vintage and abbey-land,
Hamlet and hundred and fief and w r ood,
Blind to tbe threat of a day at hand
And a dawn that should drown in blood.
Later, at Marston and Runnymede,
Athens, the Neva and black Bastille,
Was ciphered the doom of my iron creed,
Runed on my heart with steel.
So was the will of the people writ.
Who fashioned the sceptre, and shattered it.
I was the outcome of that which cries
More than the luring of place or pelf,
From the spirit of man in its agonies
For a-Power beyond himself—-
Less, but the fruit of the same desire
That bids him chisel his gods, and fix
Blind faith to a temple, a shrine, a fire,
A palmful of incense-sticks.
But, drunken with flattery’s fulsome wine,
Forgetting the bond of the common clay,
Ruling as regent of right divine
The men of the meaner way,
I lorded, spending benignantly
The fruits of the toil that I never knew,
Till farther and farther away from me
The hearts of my people grew—
They who remembered this greater thing.
That he must be man who is also king.
Mine, by the law that I framed and willed,
Were rivage and mountain, and also mine
They who had mustered, were maimed and
killed
For me and my evil line;
So that I trifled and taxed and sinned.
Fattened and dallied and drifted back,
Idled and fed, till my spirit thinned
And the strings of my arms grew slack.
Wakened and jested, or dozed and drooled,
Chuckled, and peered through my narrowed
eyes,
Laughing, “This people my fathers ruled
Be silent, but never wise!”
My bulk on the cushions I rested still
Instead of the saddle my fathers sate '
Monarch by favor of bar and grille
And the guard at the palace gate;
TiU worth of my word and the name of king
Here spittle and dust and a loathly thing.
Red to its setting my star has passed ;
Ermine is riven, and sceptred rot,
And the broken armies of earth are cast
Io the mnd world’s melting-pot.
There is savage beating of marching drums
Mhere the shoreless river of crimson flows
And the gusty shouting of millions comes
On the wind of the Fronde that blows •
Mv worn brain tramps to a single stave
That a grey seer sang in the primal grey
At aye” 1 " 8 * king>S crownin g—“The people
And the people, shall take awav!”
The myriad voices of men that die
Y la , m ?r f, ? r ™°od for my dire offence.
And the. trodden souls of the ages crv
Wherefore art thou, and whence?’’
the mirror is lifted, and fleshless Fate
Shovs me the husk of my soul— too late!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
FIVE MINUTES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ax four minutes to nine we stood in the hird
cage gateway, waiting. It was a fine mom
ing. with a touch of frost in the air anTtbo
bluest of sunny skies stretched aboy e d the
pinkish brick walls and purple slate roofs of
the ranges of buildings that stood about the
asphalt plain of the prison’s interior. The
sun lit up the neat flower-beds and green
nlots of grass, and picked out the glowing
colors of the flowers, and the fronds of the
little palms rustling and spaikling in a
faint breeze that blew in over the high walls
from the Pacific. And death strolled up and
down outside “B” Hall, waiting for nine
o’clock. , ~
It was very quiet. There was hardly any-
body about. Not a single one of the grey-
coated prisoners was to be seen in the empty
spaciousness of the place. They were all in
their cells. It was a sixth of a holiday for
them, given in honor of the visit of Old Man
Death, who was making his first official call
at the big new prison. There were only
warders in the yards and gateway —and we
four outsiders, who were there on behalf of
the people who had ordained the killing, so
that we might tell them about it, and see that
it was well and truly done, and done
decently. And we were all in horrid dread
that it might not so_.be. done. We told.each
other funny stories nervously, and wished the
affair was over. It was very quiet.
“Come along gentlemen, please. This way.”
Across the yard, through the flower-beds
and the sunshine, and we came to the open
doorway of “B” Hall. Death had walked in
ahead of us. We left the sunshine and the
life outside, and went into a long, cold, clean
arcade that was a double street of cells
with salmon-colored doors all tightly shut.
A gallery ran round all its long length, and
wire-netting stretched from side to side.
Half-way up its length dark curtains hung
down from the wire, and blocked a view of
the further end of the hall. We walked
quietly, on green eocoanut-matting, through
the curtains.
“Stand over here, gentlemen,” whispered
the Deputy-Governor. “You can see it all
from here.”
The far end of the gallery widens out to
perhaps 12ft. Across it, from wall to wall,
stretches a wooden beam. Exactly half-way
across a short length of chain hangs down
from the beam, and the black line of the rope
stretches from it to the floor. There are
warders grouped about the balcony, and
officials. We gaze up through the wide
meshes of the strong wire-netting. It is very
quiet.
During the course of the long hours that
we stood there, staring up at that platform—
it seemed like half a day—one thought of
all the horrid chances there were that this
man might be tortured, that it might take
minutes to kill him, that his head might
come off. One of those present had wit-
nessed the latter pretty happening at Dubbo,
another had seen it all but happen at Bris-
bane. At Darlinghurst it once took about
9min. to kill a man, who was not undeserving
of torture—but still not entitled to it. Per-
sonally, the writer had been fortunate. The
two executions he had previously witnessed
had been very neat affairs. And there came
into his recollection, as such things do come
at such times, the story of the death of
Henry Manns, which he had come across
whilst searching for something else in the
files of Henry Parices’s newspaper, The
Empire.
Manns was hanged at Darlinghurst on
March 26. 1863, for participation in the Gold
Escort robbery at Eugowra Rocks in the pre-
vious year—Frank Gardner’s most notable
performance. This is what The Empire
man had to say about it: —
A gleam of something white falling between the
black bars of the scaffold, a dull thud, and. a' half
sigh, half exclamation from the spectators," and
Henry Manns hung by the neck between earth and
Heaven. For a moment his limbs stiffened and he
remained motionless, and then came that horrible
convulsive struggle for life which was being so
cruelly choked out by the fatal rope—choked, and
yet not choked; for from the maladjustment of the
knot by that bungling old man [the executioner of
the period] it slipped in the fall round to the
front and caught the victim under the chin, forcing
his head back and hanging him by the back of the
neek ; The sight was shocking in the extreme. By
the jerk the blood had been forced out horribly from
his eyes, and had spurted upon the cap and'down-
ward to his neck, the front of which stretched blue
and ghastly to its full extent. The dreadful signs of
suffocation—the gurgling in the throat—were plainly
to be heard all over the yard, although the knot,
pressing against the chin, prevented his screaming or
crying out At the expiration of a quarter of an
hour Dr. West, finding that life was not extinct,
summoned the hangman from his lair, whither lie
had retreated immediately on drawing the bolt, and
the Under-sheriff ordered him to readjust the rope.
* our prisoners were then called, and the hanging
man was lifted up bodily ; the knot of the rope was
removed to its place, under the ear, and Henry
Manns in a few moments died of strangulation.
Why shouldn’t that happen this morning?
NVh.v shouldn’t the man’s head come off?
>V hy shouldn’t he be slowly choked to death,
instead of snuffing out instantaneouly on the
inpture of his spinal cord? No reason why,
except the skill and nerve of the hangman.
One prayed that the hangman might be
endowed with both nerve and skill.
They re coming out!” someone whispered.
. became aware of the chaplain stand-
ing wlnte-surpliced, in the gallery above. He
read, in a low voice, the beginning of the
beanttoul burial-service of the Church of
England. His back was to us.
“7 am the resurrection and the life, saith
he i ha { believeth in Me, though he
i\ v P Sha i n he live - And whosoever
hveth and helieveth”-
thfP«tHf g i Ble read * n g °f those few words
the 'o-rof-. i i ron-ne rved nangman had guided
fn ibo y j?’ Srey-faced, white-capped man
6 m the trapdoors. had swiftly .
the fton \ IS anWes together, had pulled down
noose nml C . ap ’ had P ieked 11 P the
neoUhnu tightened it about his victim’s
ml tod t a m epped kaok °ff the drop, had sig-
dnnrc i I US as ® ls tant at the lever, and the
man hnu d c ™ shed duly open, and a dead
man [hung below them at the end of the
“GorfL m° U^v S 7 flashed through mv mind:
realfv s itto nnt M U> me a sinner '” and “Now-
w to someone to step forward and
The timo° e lanks to the hangman !”
The WaS one mimit e past 9 o’clock,
delightful™* W i l t a demonstration of the
instance I tb ° f han Sed. Taking this
merciful’rrmtb e d C 1 ?° swifter or more
ment w etkod of inflicting capital punish-
havirio- «i<rr,JT ei ' e a mo . st light-hearted when,
we had <Eo ed +i Ur testimony to the fact that
out we ei V t le , exe cution properlv carried
Se J n Dt i OU ° f “ B : Hall into - the sun-
’ d ollt °t the prison into the joyous,


livmg world, and noted how beautiful Botany
looked on this lovely morning. But-
—lm h t e nnf i f« r e! ) - lie , ves \ n capital punishment
ba *. this horrible, mediaeval way of
not hp sn'Vr 1 ' f 1 IU u tl ' eSe dayS one sh °uld
in- tha i fenently desu '°u-i of eongratulat-
mntih, J i if- man .^ hen he hu9 not tortured or
ehnmK 4 d hIS , subject - How aoout a lethal
tw b ’’ an -£ , a wluff of > say, the firedamp
minm a? swiftly and mercifully kills eoal-
In some provincial police-stations
WnVi g i d i they exterm inate stray dogs in
thal chambers. Maybe a man deserves as
much consideration as a dog?
J. H. M. A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ma Insists on Keeping on the Spree.
j’liE Government which X. S. Wales
:;;;:| u V- d while the P ; L -F. was going berserk
U n M n VX - "' ! ! s dividin 8 th,; plums with
. ' AI)K , ca * s a Win the War outfit,
and probably because of that it is not going
to let the Commonwealth get its paws on
Fisher s final shilling without a struggle!
It announced the other day that, being
obsessed with the need for prudence and
apprehensive about getting too deep into
the soup, borrowing would at once be cut
fS f l “, st< ' ad of going gorgeously to the
Eiemi at the customary rate of fS.OOO.UOO a
?®ai% it was explained that an effort would
ot made to struggle along on £5.000,000 —
like the dipso who is virtuously resolved to
keep sober by swallowing 17 beers instead of
-O. On being reproached with being on the
f.rT,° ld „ s P ree ’ Acting-Treasurer Fitzpat-
kh k loudly demanded to know what was the
matter. “Why do our critics not say what
they want. ’ he yelled. “Do they mean that
should stop works?”—and at this stage
the interrogative Fitz leaned back and imag-
ined he nad produced a poser before which
everyone would remain dumb. Well, so that
there may be no mistake. The Bulletin
tells Fitzpat. what it wants, anyway It
wants a complete cessation of borrowing bv
the Ala State and every other State, and at
once, for the protection of Australian sol-
vency the partial prevention of economic
ruin, the restoration of political decenev and
the obliteration of industrial loaf and shirk,
ii j es ! ,dt w °uld be not only to stop the
alleged works” the States are carrying out
at ruinous cost, but to force lazy, bush-
ranging politicians to knock off wasting the
public revenues raised from taxation and
services, and compel the abandonment of
a system of government and administration
so bloated and improvident as to be beyond
comparison with anything on this earth
.! hat is what The Bulletin wants, because
it wants to see a decent, self-reliant Aus-
tralia; and if Fitzpatk. cannot understand
such a statement he ought to hand over his
job to someone else. That the borrowing of
these millions by a State Government is an
anti-national crime this paper has no doubt-
nor can it be doubted by any intelligent citi-
w if not buttressing himself into a
•Jp } with the proceeds of the borrowings,
laxation is going up, debt is accumulating
by hundreds of millions. industry is
either sagging at the knees or floating
on a bubble, the shadow of war and
terrible peril hangs over the country—
yet this maniacal rush to beat the Com-
monwealth to the pawnshop goes on. What
sort of hell-broth do the people who are
perpetrating this imagine they are brewing
tor the Australian citizen and his child {
r rom every possible point of view the policy
I irzpAT. and his mates are following is de-
structive of Australian interests. They are
nu ° B the l r i° b ’, , shirkin £ the obligations
upon them and cheekily pretending that they
are out to win the war. They are, instead,
making the war harder to carry on, more
uncertain in its result, and more disastrous
m its effects. If justice were available the
iederal Government would be able to inter-
rupt this madness. It must all be kept in
nmid—stored up for the early day when the
tight for T mfication will begin.
—♦
The Inexpediency of Being Impetuous.
Bulletin now learns with thankfulness
that the various efforts to settle the repatri-
ation problem by (1) talking, (2) talking
some more, (3) sending round the hat. (4)
recognising the position, (5) giving Chris
Watson a job, (6) producing a half-
hatched scheme of operations, (7) hurriedly
' ldl , n £ thing out of sight, (8) proclaiming
everything is in working order, and
CM denouncing capping critics, have at last
resulted in something definite. The some-
thing is an admission that everything con-
nected with the business is up in‘the air and
that a fresh start must be made. The next
thing to happen, apparently, will be the
creation of a Federal Ministry of Repatri-
ation. The way will then be clear to ap-
point numerous officials, acquire offices,
stationery, red tape and start producing
more correspondence, reports and official
contradictions. It will be no.sible, also, to
summon frequent additional conferences
about Repatriation, and gradually work up
to a stage at which the departmental
archives will be bulging through the roof.
Ihe outlook, therefore, shows distinct im-
provement, and The Bulletin urges the
I usion to go steadily on, regardless of critics,
and get the Department of Repatriation into
a condition of complete efficiency to handle
a scheme it hasn’t got. What is the good
of having a scheme first, anyhow? The
whole subject could be left in abeyance by
the Department for 17 years as a precaution
against doing anything rash. Meantime
Millen could make a few speeches every
week and gradually work the community up
to a state of excitement by promising that
everything will be ready for starting some
Poultry-farms at the psychological moment.
Then, after peace had prevailed for 15 vears
and Millen had at last got the hang of the
situation, he could appoint a Royal Com-
mission to visit other countries and report on
what had been done or undone there. This
would consume about five more years. It
might assist in stalking recruits if we got
promptly down to the bedrock of repatria-
tion and the allied problems. But it is
much more important to stalk votes and
Dolitieal support ' . And you can always stalk
® uppor . t more effectively with
pionnses than with performances.
Oil Production in Australia.
The Bulletin sent a man up to the Blue
Mountains (N.SAV.) the other day to con-
template the oil works laid down by its
humorous old friend the Commonwealth Oil
Corporation (London). The best that can be
saici about the place now is that its tragedy-
Vm t?V cute 4„ an jt would have been if
i f o LL ’ a >S r vdne y man > had not taken
hold of tbe wreckage. The awful story of
nie English company does not matter just
n no w It has been told many times. After
a million or two had been blewed the bailiffs
took charge, operations stopped, and the
‘C, ve B' e tat ion began to grow again. Then
i ell came along, made an arrangement with
10 ( enture-holders and creditors, and re-
started the works. New methods were in-
augurated and have been technically success-
•Ui iaw/ he_ plant is capable of turning out
•>O.O<X) gaM. of oil a day; the actual output
is about 0000 gals., produced at a loss of
somewhere about £BOO a month. So the old
hoodoo roosts on the premises still, and the
returns are a loud, emphatic warning to the
man who would extract oil from Australia
to bank Ins cash and turn to importing until
conditions are altered. Wages have been
run up over 30 per cent, in two years. The
price of chemicals used in refining and dis-
tillation has bounded sky high. Wherefore
tne figures relating to the business generally
are about as cheerful as a heap of cinders.
- he only redeeming features about the show
are (1) that the difficulties of distillation
have been overcome, and (2) that there is
proof ot the Commonwealth possessing latent
wealth of vast possibilities. With a greater
output the pathetic dependence of Australia
upon imported motor spirit, kerosene, par-
atim wax, gas oil and sulphate of ammonia
would be very substantially reduced. But
whetiicr such an industry as this can be
worked at a profit in Australia has not yet
been proved. Perhaps it cannot. It all
depends on costs and duties. But it seems
more than a pity to see a thing which would
possess such tremendous possibilities under
sane conditions strangled. At one time a
bounty was offered for the production of
oils from Australian shale. This is not the
u S l’!°i'i\ An . d lt is reall y doubtful whether
it should be ; tor upon the available evidence
there is strong reason to at least suspect
that such payment would at rock bottom be
equivalent to subsidising with public monev
labor conditions that make a jest of every
rational scheme of industrial development.
iLi j im Imm ‘ rs are going to sullenlv
settle down to a programme of passive
obstruction by an organised limitation of
output the correction certainly does not rest
m making the remainder of the community
pay tor such proceedings. Along that way
lies tin' road to prompt ruin in the same
manner as does the fantastic plan of
settling disputes by the sandbag in the
hands of a striker. Anyhow, unless Fell
turns out to be a philanthropist with an
inexhaustible purse the only productive oil
Aus f ralia "ill certainly be closed
anr! 300 employees thrown out. Possibly
tbe i ederal Government would view this
with equanimity. There is no way of ascer-
taining. But the reasons for the collapse
ot any important pioneer undertaking should
not escape investigation before the facts
evaporate.
The Post Office and Wasted Millions.
Postmaster-General Webster has deliv-
ered himself of a iong explanation of “the
actual position of a much-maligned depart-
ment. ’ this being necessary, apparently-, to
combat ' certain misapprehensions” created
by treasurer Big.iohn’s statement relating
to postal finance. The point of the P M G’s
yarn is that the £10.107.125 drawn from the
treasury and spent by the Post Office in
addition to the whole of its revenue in 10
.years is represented by solid assets. Part of
it may be; but if there is anything solid to
show for £1.804,271 of this amount appropri-
ated to meet four years’ trading losses and
pay interest which tbe Department yvas in-
capable of earning, Webster ought to pro-
duce it. So far nobody has done so. But
\\ ebster’s story turns mostly upon a desire
to refute a statement made by The Bul-
letin that the expenditure of these millions
had corrupted the Commonw-ealth. yvhich. he
says, “if untrue, is a reckless slander.” The
answer is that the statement made upon this
page is true to the last letter. A nation can
be corrupted through its own statute-book
and by votes of competing parties in Parlia-
ment arid by the blundering mismanage-
ment of its affairs by party Ministers as
readily ns by the crude method of offering
direct bribes. What The Bulletin said
was that since the beginning of Federation
until now 10 millions had been handed from
the national cashbox to the Post Office •
that thousands, had been wasted at Can-
berra, that millions of the credit created
by the Notes Fund had been fooled away on
loans to the States; that if the Federal Gov-
ernment now had the 40 millions it had thus
got rid of the. position of Australia yvould
k, e . better than it is. Who is there can doubt
tins/ Mho can say that the main result of
the financial jag these millions represent has
not been the corruption of Australia? Or
that with them votes yvere not bought as
directly as if the bartering had been with
pieces of silver outside the polling booths?
If the expenditure of public money did not
count and was not intended to count among
the electors,, why did Webster, in his last
appeal to his old constituency, remind the
peopJe whom he was asking for votes
that they had got better post offices and a
better postal service than any other country
district in Australia?
•*.
I etitioning Against Australianism.
“George Street” on an Australian question
that doesn t get the consideration it deserves:
The other evening I was asked to sign a petition
pleading that there should be no prohibition of the
importation of literary shoddy in the form of cheap
magazines. I was told by the enthusiastic person in
charge of the document that this country could pro-
duce nothing but bushrangier yarns. Probably the
man who made the remark was only saying what he
'as told to say and had given no thought at all to
~e ™ atter : but for anti-Australian sentiment
' V ° Uld bc ' ,ard t 0 beat - The plain fact
'.' " c s t lat tbe immense book and magazine trade of
me United States was created by a prohibition simi-
. t 0 , that wblcb for cargo-saving reasons mav be
imposed m Australia during the period of the war.
book ; ,r Periodical may be sold in Wilson's
count!} unless wholly set up and printed there. This
HZ Z Pro . h , i , bi l the readin§: of forei^n magazines.
y may still be sent to subscribers through the
post, or if it is found profitable, may be' reprinted
v" “ Amencan edition. The same law enforced
ere would have the immediate effect of causing a
boom m the printing industry and a still bigger
boom in the writing business. The Australian writer is
under an unfair handicap. He has not merely to compete
with the outsider from scratch, but actually to give
con 1 a , start - For the books and magazines that
Hr4hi4 3re thC overplus of the American and
manufacturer; and while these can
C , heap y 1,0 publisher will venture to
is in "° . T he Position is exactly the same
whar tl lndustr,es ’ but with the difference that
than what ?h° Ple rC,lti iS more vital t 0 the na tion
ccnHn n . ey - or Wear - Tlle Australian mind is
continually being fed on the thought of the
eigner; for even Australian writers abroad have
live Z* 1 to , thlnk llke the People among whom they
lue in order to sell their wares. The average
Te Zl r is more tamiliar with New
idea" of*™ ™ th ? 3pe Vork and has a better
idea of crime ,n Chicago than of virtu-
ous life ,n Tasmania; while the very language of
teTOs IC of 18 tho eln ff f 0i n- e u UP °" US t 0 the exc hision of
c ms of thought which arc distinctively our own.
of boo 4an I”' 111 Pr ° hibition of thp importation
ot books and magazines would cure. For a moment
the importers would suffer from a loss of trade ■ but
the new arrangement would begin to put extra
money in their pockets just as soon as the position
was fau-iy tackle, by local publisherg . P ™
petition which a public that does not understand
!L7? t,on b T USe 14 has never ]ooked into is
ofrfnMhT™ ita.uame to is a proposal on the
while I f !° Stenn «' t 0 themselves injury
«hile they do bigger injury to everybody else.
J’ S dpsirc for naval bases near Aus-
lif Kaiser 11 w-S S J n s i nd eud with the harbors
VavaS in )hI w lmSland and N ew Britain.
on Stf'S'E. B SVeS d “”r r "
also marked down for capture. More than
il/ e ?nYh g 0 Kaiser was interesting him-
ZE in ., the ll4tle speck called Tongatabu
where the capital of the Tongan grown i*
situated. He presented George Tubou with
a huge equestrian portrait of himself which
hangs on the main staircase of the palace
he e tHed° m h\° haS ma !K a bonfire of it; and
tned, by means of Cierman fr»
sihb? 0 - n, S Inuch German feeling as pos-
siiile into the group. I u 1004, even after the
British lion had stretched out his paw Ger-
man influence in Tongatabu and Vavau was
IE1 V Mv ’‘‘fri W :OR - E Tr;H(,U IL took Wir.-
ILEJI s friendship quite seriously. When
his queen died he wrote to the Emperor
expressing his desire to make a suitable
match, and asking for the names of eligible
German princesses. He got nuite -i ;.;?.;i
sad polit( ' st tone, the
" ? l act that just at the moment there did
avnilnhfP eU v to bo . an - v Ge ™an princesses
landlocked w VBn IS i a ma snihcent harbor,
d u l, and safe from every wind
that blows; the navy of the greatest Power
could shelter in it unseen from the sea Wir
S JZTVUJ! “ ““'y ft
iVr. am a” o ? l i- on and - anc * n °t much more
S; fic AuS ft a f Alls a big gap in the
If h t no- r England mopped it up in one
rJn n 1odl !? al .t'dyings, and thenceforward
ntSZJoZJ 1 ' '!' e P “ d *« t™«l tSS
“( 4,n er P aces - Hay ana Harbor
iooKed good. It was nearer Sydney it was
a splontlKi and well-concealed haven ; and it
IfMTi not °wned by anyone in particular in
i f 1 if , rcnchnian started to buy land
abut the harbor. Nobody minded Frenoh-
so tho Englishmen buying what thev could,
Plete When a W R P y 0 n n ’ and were “early com-
Plete, when a British agent began to suspect
He found what he wanted—no matter how—
achiar r bm-ef lde^ e Germany waa the
actual bujei. So Germany didn’t get
Havana. But it was a close thing S
Hr. Arthur, of Sydney, objects to using pre-
ventive treatment for venereal disease-
areTßaskcdinm'?'n S ;L the isSue before us is
ai e asked to tell the young man: “You should con-
that Four passions but jf you won > t> we win see
that you do not suffer from your want of control ”
nnm’; tblS /u ay be exc ? llent from the hygienic stand-
point, but it means in effect the cynical throwing
overboard of all sexual ethics. S
So Dr Arthur would rather throw over-
board hygiene than what he calls sexual
f- tb } cs - P Jam .words he says to some poor
little suffering mite: “I could have made you
bng il nd -cr happy and healthy; but I
wouldn t. You are what your sinning father
maile you, and I wanted you as a horrible
example. Other men. seeing you, may he
persuaded not to sin." That is Dr. Arthur’s
loirible theory. Now we want to
know this. If such a child were brought
to him suffering from one of those
dreadful _ eye diseases which are one
ot the inherited consequences of venereal
disease would Dr. Arthur attempt to cure
sVv th-H H, ‘ V? “o* be logical and
say that, the worse the child, the mor» the
smful father is likely to be punished, and
the more shocking the example the bette-
the moral results are likely to be?
♦—
the PM e r S l in n th a e C ° St ° f P° sta S e > which
the I -M.G. foreshadows, is a proper thing in
IhlT of .. inc r® a ® ed expenses all-round ; never-
theless it will be resented by a public which
with reason feels that it is not getting a
fan- return for the money it already- spends
I \\EBSTER would drop the “no ‘respond
bihty plea and give a guarantee that all
letters, papers and telegrams,, if properly
addressed, would reach their destination, or
limited compensation would be paid he
might charge more and do it amid universal
cheering ; hut for the sort of service we get
even the present charges are too high. A
telegram for which the Department took
nmepence was handed in at an office 14
miles from Sydney three weeks ago and has
not reached its destination nine miles on the
other side of Sydney yet: a registered packet
with one mile to travel in the city was five
days on its journey—every citizen 'could sup-
ply one to a dozen such instances • and even
discounting the public grievance bv 50 per
cent, for wrong: addressing and illegible writ-
ing, the remedy does not lie in making the
citizen pay more for the service he doesn't
gee.
Speaking with a wide knowledge of the
wine-making industry, Francois l>e Cas-
tella, V ic.’s State viticultural expert, loses
no chance of saying the right word for Aus-
tralian vintages. The Government has a
viticultural station at Rutherglen. in that
blessed and fertile river-region through
which the Ovens flows down to the Murray
trom tne roof of Victoria. The other day
members of the Viticultural Society gathered
around a tableful of wines which had been
brought down to Melbourne from the State
establishment, and while they were taking'
a sip here and a sup there de Castella
orated on the merits of the f.a.q. Australian
article. When he declared that “a remark-
able degree of success had been achieved in
Australia in production of high-grade wines,
few countries being able to approach them.’"
lie uttered a sound and conservative truth
that has been amply endorsed by the ex-
perts of the world. But it is one thing for
the producer to attain a high degree of
excellence with his product and quite
another to get an adequate return for his
labor and skill and at the same time induce
other Australians to enter the business. As
the industry stands at present, the big profits
are hogged by a few people with ample finan-
cial resources, while the average vine-grower
goes on living from hand to mouth —in many
cases with his eye on a better time coming
when he will be able to 'get into something-
more payable. In this as in most other
rural industries the producer is less in need
of being told how to grow good stuff than of
having the means to get a decent return for
what he does grow; and things won’t im-
prove much until Agricultural Departments
regard that as their most important immedi-
ate business. At present they seem to be
too afraid of the mostly-city middleman to
open their mouths.
“Exile”: Nearly 100 cities in the United
States have “city managers,” usually civil
engineers, and many more of them are con-
sidering the abandonment of the council
lorm of government in favor of an executive
appointed by a mayor and body of “direc-
tors.” Might we not in Australia try this
plan of managing a city like a joint stock
company? A thoroughly trained scientific
man appointed during good behavior would
separate a number of useless officials from
the civic pay-sheet and cut out much of the
red-tape which disfigures our municipal ex-
penditure. Just here I am writing from
experience as a Government municipal audi-
tor. The city of Philadelphia used to have
a procedure incident to purchases and con-
tracts which needed 67 operations and docu-
ments between the requisition at the begin-
ning and the payment at the end of a pur-
chase or contract. Nowadays a new system
does the same work better* with one-fourth
ot the documents. The yearly election of
mayors and councillors is a poor way to
get the best management of ratepayers’
money, and the appointment of the skilled
city manager seems to align with economy
and progress.
The war promises to get in some useful
decentralisation work. Aforetime London
was J. Bull’s wool-selling and distributing-
centre ; now, with the elusive submarine
prowling about, the clips are shoved into
whatever port is handiest, and the machin-
ery installed for handling the stuff isn't
likely to be scrapped off-handedly when
peace arrives. Besides, by that time unload-
ing at these provincial ports will have be-
come more or less a habit. As for Aus-
tralia, even the S. M. Herald can see a
change in the offing:—
If the auction system is reverted to in Australia
the new appraisement centres will become wool
markets, and practically no first-hand wools will be
sold outside the Commonwealth. This will applv
with greater force to Westralian wools than to the
production in the other States. In short, the
appraisement centres promise to become selling
centies, with one or two added, such as Rockhamp-
ton or some other North Queensland centre, for
handling central and western district wools, without
shipping or railing to Brisbane.
Good, and if the wool people can only make
some other people understand that it is pos-
sible to do things elsewhere than in the con-
gested capitals it will be better still.
At fairly regular intervals the police con-
tinue to meet the damsel who tells a circum-
stantial story of a brutal assault that never
happened, and the woman who has been
robbed of £1 7s. lid. which she did not pos-
sess. It looks, in fact, as though the habit
were spreading, as in one case in a Mel-
bourne suburb recently the bogus narrative
was concocted by a youth. At the best, the
ponce waste a lot of time investigating these
yarns and proving them false; at the worst
the mendacity is sufficiently specific to lead
fco an arrest, followed by a trial. In any
case nothing happens to the accuser. When
a matter reaches court, and the jury by its
verdict indicates its opinion that'the person
who brought the charge was a perjurer, it
remains for the Crown Law Department to
take action ; but it never does. In regard to
charges which the police are able to disprove
off their own bat, nothing can be done. But
it ought to be possible to do something.
Lvery alleged victim of a burglary, assault
oi other outrage might, for example, be
£ a statutory declaration
rogarding the affair, so that the police would
have power to collar the fictionist for pei-
lent ’ f the charge were f()li nd to be fraudu-
Among its other sins the Federal Govern-
Dvfes hL?‘ S -f eat .Wool-Producing countrv
trode i k -° n tne sins of tlle softgoods
* . J conmves at drapers’ deceptions.
An agent of the Vic. Board of Health has
been visiting drapery shops of late to get
material for a prosecution of those who sell
very shoddy goods under false pretences
and he had not gone far before he found that
n worst of the sinners have a
soit of Customs House sanction for their
sms. h°r instance, material labelled “Brit-
n^ U ?R° n .J lauuel ” is all cotton. But it
Pi ys the «>0 per cent, duty demanded on
”T r e(i woollens, because' the importers
wish to sell it under the “flannel” label
flannel being an elastic term which mvati


The Possibilities of Co-operation
are immense. In every country in the world there are striking examples of what can be attained when men with common interest* t , a
conduct their affairs without the assistance of middlemen. The advantages of co-operation are nowhere better f J D * orces and
r7™ir s 7a a „Tob t 3„Sb y Zeal “ d C °- oP6rati ° n «' *>' V**™ ■>"*>'“*' »«■*«»• °«
SQ' OPE g.^ TIVE JNSURANCE -co.operating farmers undertaking their own insurance business
and securing absolute protection at cost price. S *
Tfe Farmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A us ii?!i a
was formed in tHe interests of the Australian farmers.
Write the Manager for full particulars.
Have you placed your WorKmen’s
Compensation Insurance yet?
The F. & S. Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia is twit „
farmer. Australia is THE company for the
Do not delay—the Act operates as from July 1.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
a multitude of questionable frauds. Mens
undervests, sold as “Flannel undies to men
who are looking for something warm am
comforting for winter wear, are 9< per cent,
cotton. But on account of the 3 per cent,
of woollen thread in the material tlie
Government lets them in as woollens pro-
vided they pay 30 per cent. duty. 1 he
Government thus turns a dangerous impos-
ture to good financial account. And this in
a country which is always blaming itself tor
not making better use of its fine resources
in raw wool—a country in which woollen
manufacture ought to be the proudest and
most efficient of national industries.
.. -
Victory or Votes?
Hall, Attorney-General of N. S. \\ ales,
really ought to be chained up until his friend
Holman comes back with the familiar
muzzle. Sent up to Dubbo the other night
to help win a war —a mere slip of the_ pen ;
this paper means seat —for the “National-
ists,” the clattering little person said: —
Mr. Hughes had promised that “in the absence of
defeat on land or sea no attempt would be made to
re-open the Conscription issue.” Since then
Russia had failed for a while, but was now
doing her part, America had come into the war,
Constantine had been dismissed from his throne,
and Venjzei.os had control of Greece. These things
augured victory, not defeat, and it was inconceivable
that Mr. Hughes and his Ministers would treat a
solemn promise as the Germans had treated the scrap
of paper which guaranteed the integrity of Belgium.
Then why enlist? And the man who gives
reasons why it isn’t very necessary is a lead-
ing member of a Win the Mar Ministry.
The simple fact is that most of Hall's story
is grotesquely untrue, and is told merely to
win a few votes. Why enlist? Because all
Australia’s liberties are at stake; because
none of the events which are alleged to
“augur victory” do anything of the sort;
because it is only a poltroon who would
evade service for his country by sheltering
behind the conscript army of another nation.
Apparently Hall imagines that the disturb-
ance is as good as over, that victory is in
sight, and that there is nothing for the local
politician to do but resume business as a
purveyor of dopes and doles. He is tragically
wrong. The bitter truth is that victory_ is
not in sight, that the armies of France which
held the gate alone against the Hun have
been terribly bled, that to rely on Russia is
to put faith in the unknown, and that the
Yank and the Frenchman and the Russian
are doing for Australia the very thing which
various collections of Win-the-War-with-
Wind humbugs shrink from, like whipped
curs. Heaven knows The Bulletin has no
admiration for the “anti” argument, hut for
the man who opposes Conscription and re-
sists even the referendum from honest con-
viction of being right it has a thousand times
more regard than for the political dodger
who poses as a patriot to-day and finds
excuses for being a quitter to-morrow. Long
ago this paper warned its readers that
behind the politicians’ yell about winning
the war there was crafty design to sell them
a brick. The piece of clay was on the counter
before the numbers went up. Every shallow'
adventurer in pursuit of votes has now a bit
of it in his kit.
Again a splendid burst of triumph swells
from all Tory throats to hail the glorious
fact that emancipated France has torn the
wicked front out of the Bastille! What
about celebrating the day by tearing a large
hole in our own Bastille? Times change,
but. like the two ends of the moving tiger-
snake, the fair thing and the other thing
keep their relative distances. The Bastille
stood for the old order, for all that kepf the
people back and blighted their hopes. There
are several things doing that in Australia
to-day; and if we don’t open them up and
let in a little light, the big row will come
later, w r hen they will have to be smashed by
force. The Bastille assault represented the
moment when France became politically
awake and the people reared themselves above
the politician to do things. To celebrate the
victory of Frenchmen while we endure the
things the Frenchmen refused longer to tol-
erate doesn’t do special credit to our intelli-
gence. Win-the-War parties had been talking
France into shame for half a dozen cen-
turies —until the people suddenly began to
vote with bricks and win wars in their own
way. And to the glory of emancipated
France the big fact stands that she wrought
miracles of domestic reform with her right
hand while with her left she was fighting a
world in arms. She wasn’t taking any
Win-the-War chloroform!
♦
Hughes’s doubt whether the War Precau-
tions Act is elastic enough to stretch as far
as the desires of the anti-shouters makes
curious reading in the light of the things
that have already been done under that Act.
What Hughes probably meant was that he
did not like to say “No !” to all the moral
petticoat and umbrella which recently
confronted him in Sydney, but that
in his opinion the whole affair was non-
sense; No one could reasonably believe that
the shouting habit as it exists in Australia
comes within the scope of things about which
precautions are necessary for the winning of
the war. On the other hand, at a time when
everybody’s energies are supposed to be con-
centrated on the one job of smashing the
Kaiser, and when all political issues are to be
patriotically sunk because of it, the introduc-
tion of a vexed question relating to liquor is
unpardonable. Maoriland experience wen
to show that no issue was so calculated to
provoke party heats and obscure more im-
portant issues; and, short of a conscription
campaign or an actual revolution nothing
will so effectively divide and distract the Aus-
tralian community as a liquor fight m its
own backyard. If the thing proposed gave
even a reasonable promise of any reform
worth while, such a war of parties might be
endured; but an anti-shouting regulation
must from its nature be a futile, easily-
evaded affair which irritates in some quaiteis
and is ignored in others.
\Y. H. Edgar, brother of Melbourne’s best-
known Methodist heavyweight, is back in
the Victorian House of Fat and Stodge, vice
Robert Beckett, deceased. Edgar was one
of the most energetic Works Ministers V ic.
has known in recent years; but he had the
bad luck to represent one of the few Council
districts in which it is remotely possible to
elect a Labor man, so the time came when
he was without a job.
Goodman, engineer and general manager
of the Tramways Trust in Adelaide ever
since he came from Maoriland to electrify
the system 10 years ago, has gone on a bus-
man’s holiday to America and (if possible)
England. Eldip Moulden, his second in com-
mand, takes up the running. The Mouldens
are an old Adelaide family, mostly lawyers,
but this one, like his elder brother Jack,
early developed engineering talent. Jack is
England’s best-known home-grown zinc-
smelting expert.
Defence-Minister Pearce grows indignant
because the fruit-growers and jam-makers
blame the Federal Government for bungling
the arrangements for the supply of tin plates.
Yet most of the members of the Government
are to blame. Tin plates and plain galvan-
ised-iron are now practically unobtainable
in Australia at any price. Yet the con-
stituents —tin, spelter and iron—are all
available, mines-full of them, and with the
Protective tariff promised seven years ago
Australia to-day would be not only self-
dependent, but helping the Allies to some
purpose.
The Carlton (Vic.) branch of the Pro-
gressive Society of Carpenters lately decided
to support Hughes’s scheme for starting ship-
building, with the stipulation that all agree-
ments be declared null and void if Conscrip-
tion is at any time introduced in Aus-
tralia. Yes; and why not also reserve the
right to break contracts if the teaching of
the Bible in State Schools is made com-
pulsory? A lot of people want to see that
done and a lot of other people want to see
other things done; and if they were all to
knock off work if they didn’t get their own
various ways, things would be much livelier.
Brushing the cobwebs from its eyes, the
Age is gradually realising what a hollow
imposture was the “Win-the-war” gag with
which the Phewsion (with the help of the
Age) attained office. “Is there a win-the-
war policy, and, if so, what is it?” inquires
the poor paper plaintively. Well, before the
election the Age was not only absolutely
certain there was such a policy, but actually
pretended to exnlain it.
They call Maoriland’s Cocked Hat a
“Governor-General” nowadays, and when the
local inhabitant asks “Waffor?” the Ministry
explains that by graciously permitting his
Ex. “to rank with the representatives of the
Crown in the other Great Dominions,” J.
Bull had “shown his appreciation of the
islands’ gallant soldiers.” The ponulation
laughs-—but only when the lights are out,
lest it should amount to a fracture of some
War Regulation.
Once more it is solemnly cabled that a
great financial authority believes Germany
will not be able to meet its engagements.
Fritz’s troubles! If Germany is completely
self-supporting and has not lost heart, its
bankruptcy is no good to us. A blind cen-
sorship has been and still is mainly respon-
sible for this sort of humbug. Right from
the start the people in authority assumed
that the only way to get the Australian to
fight was to assure him that his opponent
was a poor creature who was as weak in the
knees as he was wrong in the head; and the
same stupid policy is still adopted, more or
less —not so much nowadays because the
Censor insists upon it as because the papers
can get most hoorays that way.
John Breckenridge, who bowed to Death
at Drummoyne, Sydney, last week, aged ?1,
was one of the pioneers of the coastal tim-
ber trade, and what he didn’t know about
the precarious traffic of the northern bars
didn’t matter much. He had an illegant
way with him when he discoursed on the
money spent in drayloads to improve those
same bars. The entrances were safer, he
would snort, when nature was the sole cou-
th raetor.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. ,
Her Majesty’s •••• “Canary o
Criterion "Good
p. T , rF “Look Who s Here
Tivoli '.'. Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
, inangle I lays
lloyt’s TiIEATRE Moving Pictures
.V 011 V Moving Pictures
UiNioN Theatres
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
w
King’s “Peg °’ My Heart”
Princess’s “ The Story of the Rosa fW
Tivoli . ..!. “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” & Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Du Luxe & Olymria Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
One might almost suppose that the gayer
vouths of the day had commissioned the
dramatists to preach that the old-fashioned
remedy of Marrying the Girl is out of date
and ridiculous. In “Hindle V akes’ it was
the girl herself who scouted the idea. In
Allan Monkhouse’s “Mary Broome,” given
its first rendering in Australia by the
Adelaide Repertory Theatre, the marriage
duly takes place, under the compulsion of a
stern father —and the pair proceed to live
unhappily ever after, being quite unsuited
to each other. This is quite a fair thing to
argue, the passion of an hour not being the
bond of a lifetime. But the character of
the youth has been allowed to run away with
the author’s judgment. He is a rather fas-
cinating waster, who sponges on everyone,
chafes his own mother insultingly, and from
being incomprehensible to the other people
at last becomes so to the audience. With
him as party to it, the most orthodox of
marriages might be unhappy. One can hardly
blame his ex-housemaid wife for running
away at last with the milkman; it is an-
other oddity that on this interesting step
she first consults her mother-in-law —who
solemnly approves it! This impossible hero
is not so much a “straight” as a character
part, and Ray Walsh was quite at home in
it, Ivy Stacy playing up to him finely as the
girl. The third act was the most effective,
bringing in some very well played smaller
characters. Fortunate is the Repertory
Theatre that can get on the stage at the
same moment such artists as Nave, Miss
Robin, Kitty Sullivan, Mrs. Anderson, and
the two already named. #
Marie Tempest as
Annabelle in "Good
Gracious, Annabelle."
Vivacious, auda-
cious, pertinacious
“Good Gracious.
Annabelle” is still
engaged at Sydney
Criterion solving
the servant prob-
lem, Marie Tempest
being the cook who
doesn’t cook, yet
manages to serve
the daintest of light
luncheons composed
of hors-d'oeuvres of
modern topics, en-
tries of piquant
situations, iced de-
tective and inked
millionaire, with a
ilentiful supply of
sparkling-burgundy
dialogue.
S: * * *
At Sydney Opera
House the Gon-
salez Co. _ will
warble in “Mignon”
on Friday night.
This is one of the uncertain team’s best
efforts, and last week’s performance, bar
minor eccentricities of the orchestra, gave
us Miss Visoni at her best. Scamuzzi will
sing the “Marseillaise” —an extra not con-
templated by the composer of “Mignon”;
but, then, how could he be expected to know
that Scamuzzi would be in Sydney on France’s
Day when the hat was going round? “Fav-
orita” fills the bill on this Thursday night.
Earlier in the week the impressive Balboni
had a benefit and took a Sydney audience by
storm in his star part, Canio in “Pagliacci.”
# * * *
“Canary Cottage” isn’t one of the poultry-
raising homes for returned soldiers run up
by Dr. Arthur’s week-end voluntary workers
at French’s Forest. It is the long-distance
J.C.W. show at Sydney Majesty’s, and the
fine breed of fantod ostriches raised by
Comedian Frith on assorted drinks are com-
ing along nicely.
Ada Reeve is still inciting the Sydney
Tivoleans to cast their money on the stage
and dent the boards that have been slapped
by the feet of a thousand dancers. On an
average, the clever little songstress’s nightly
appeal for the Anzac Buffet brings in
enough to pay three stout managing direc-
tors a week’s salary. The giving is made so
pleasant that Ada should be appointed Tax
Receiver for the Commonwealth at a suit-
able salary. Wizard Nikola of the shadowy
hands and dancer Lucie Linda are the best
troops in support. s
“Look Who’s Here,” the twinkling James-
Waller show, has shaken down and is i tin-
ning sweetly at Sydney I alace. The our-
iesque Pallet of a recent neighboring frivol
is one of the gayest itemsot a long bill.
Sydney Royal is still running - on jtetur*
4. William Fox film version of lhe laic
of Two Cities” follows the lading Honor
System” on Saturday.
Sydney film features this week :
Hoyt’s: H. B. Irving in a splendid filming of
“The Lyons Mail.”
Lyceum: “Paddy O’Hara” —the adventures <f an
Irish war correspondent (Win. Desmond), who seeks
scoops in a Balkan mix-up and becomes entangled
in a romance with a gorgeous princess in it.
Crystal Palace: “A Girl’s Folly,” a drama or
the lure of the studios, “where a few girls find fame
and many destruction,” and in which Robt. Warwick
proves that the bad man of silent drama can be as
satisfactory a rascal as the stage villain, despite the
latter’s thunder.
“LOOK WHO'S HERE," AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Jack Waller and Cecilia Gold in a “meow"
duet.
Melbourne tried to emulate the Great
Push when the new war films were screened
in aid of the Repatriation Fund at the Audi-
torium on Saturday. Both matinee and
evening performances were crammed until it
would have been difficult to find a chink even
for Hamlet’s father. The pictures mostly
run to glimpses of the organisation and pre-
paration for another round with Fritz.
Visions of shell-dumps are followed by hur-
ried glances at the human element getting
ready; but occasionally there is a distant
sight of the actual violence and resultant
chaos, with a few thrilling moments when
the “tanks” swank in No Man’s Land. On
the whole, the films are interesting, while free
from anything very harrowing. Even the
few wounded that are permitted publicity
have been carefully blanketed to avoid caus-
ing public shudders.
Four nights last week there was an inter-
esting change in the appearance of “Peg ’o
My Heart” at Melbourne King’s. Sara All-
good was sick, and the Taits had to put in
another Peg. All things considered, Miss
Tien Hogue, the understudy, made an effec-
tive substitute. She has no brogue to speak
of—not one that you could cut with a knife,
anyhow. Nor can she give the same weight
and warmth to the character that the experi-
enced actress does. But her imitation is
clever all the time, and she has youthful
charm in her favor. Her singing voice is
strong and sweet; she is the more grace-
ful on her feet, the more elegant in her arm-
play. In fact, she gives more justification
to gentle Jerry’s droning chant of admira-
tion for the maiden who makes cousin
Alaric supremely happy by rejecting him.
“Peg” will continue to swear by her unfinan-
cial Irish father for another week or two,
after which comes another play by Hartley
Manners entitled “Out There.’'’
* sfc sjs *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the kiss of Don-
didier will assail the icy cheek of Miss
Young until Friday night, and then “The
Pink Lady ’ will retire. A revival of
“Mikado” is billed for Saturday, with
W orkman and A iltiers Arnold as new mem-
bers of the co. Meanwhile the music and
the giddiness of the pink-tinted story are
appealing to the ungodly as before.
“Grumpy” is set. fair at Melbourne Roval.
The. garrulous old man has hit the public
taste and tickled the popular fancy. Some
of his audience is never more in sympathy
with the comic ancient than when he is
wheezing wildly at the volume compiled by
that exasperating Mr. Bradshaw who refers
you to page 397 for information concerning
a train which either doesn’t carry passen-
gers or else conveys them to nowhere at all.
The world had long been waiting for an
adequate denunciation of Mr. Bradshaw.


HENKES’
SCHNAPPS
Holland's best production-an absolutely ideal tonlo.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
“BRITISH!”
THAT’S
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
USED ALL OVER THE WORLD BY CONNOISSEURS.
TUCKER CD. CO., SYDNEY.
The Oldest Wine and Spirit Merchants in Australia.
n
The “WARREGO" Shirt
—A NEAT STYLE FOR WORKERS.
Made of a tough cotton material of good weight,
in , seams —the design showing verv
little white and therefore not easy to soil. Tinv
pinhead squares, close set, give the neatest pattern
so tar introduced for workers’ shirts. The pockets
have flaps to button and the collar-peaks are also
held in place by buttons. These shiits, introduced
oy us for the second successive season, are selling
rapidly; Colors: Grey and Buff.
Price 6/6. Ready to wear,
Please state size oj collar usually worn.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street SYDNEY.
tie is one or the immortal worries of civili-
sation, and it was high time he was damned.
“The Story of the Itosary,” at Melbourne
Princess s, is the saibe amazing yarn as
when Madge Fabian suffered the woes that
now devolve upon the actress whose front
name is Frediswyde. The small kingdom of
puiyna, or whatever its name is, sends an
invisible army to fight the foe next door,
and the hero gets carried away by mistake
to. a corpse-utilisation factory whilst his
bride is preparing to take the veil. Allan
Wilkie continues to deliver ridiculous lines
as though he expected them to be impres-
sive, and Greenaway gives a careful im-
personation of feeling good in the holy robe
of the Village Priest. The show is an un-
accountably payable proposition, but it’s
hard to say what sort of punishment would
best fit the author’s crime.
* * * *
Melba and Cyril Maude are combining for
the purpose of a guinea matinee at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s on Tuesday, the 24th.
Melba is to sing in the last act of “Otello”
and in a mixed item with Cyril Maude,
who will also play Sir Peter to the Ladv
leazle of Lady Susan Fitzclarenc-e. The
cause of this high-toned gathering is a
patriotic fund with a name almost as long
as the way to Tipperary. It is called “The
State War Council Fund for Wounded Sol-
diers and Their Families in Want or Dis-
tress.”
❖ ❖ $
-^ e ll Stewart is again soothing her tired
King with sweet music at Melbourne Tivoli.
The actress has suffered little from her recent
battle under the blankets. There is not a
trace of the ’flu’ in her voice and bearing
and her capacity for youthful raillery is
unimpaired. But unfortunately she is not
getting the last ounce of support out of her
assorted company. Two new arrivals,
Nelusco and Hurley, precede Ellen (iw.ynne
on the programme, and oblige with an agree-
able hash of conjuring and shadowgraphs.
Mercedes Alvin and Andy Williams. Yankee
singers and patterers. were also added on
Saturday. Mercedes is a tall, obtrusive
brunette with a robust soprano and a large
quantity of giggle that won’t behave. Andy
Williams is no more shy and shrinking than
his festive partner, and owns a voice that
would bring big business to a ’ot-pie
merchant.
Frank Elliott as
Jarvis.
“GRUMPY,” AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Robert Ayrton as
Isaac Wolf.
The Ideal Co.’s version of “Lady Winder-
mere’s I’an” was run off by Hoyt’s in Mel-
bourne on Saturday. Sir George Alexander
and several more pose on the celluloid in
elegant garments, but the limited panto-
mime of these well-bred spectres is insuffici-
ent to realise the spirit of Wilde’s play. On
the technical side, however, the film is a
considerable achievement. In addition to
the Windermere household Hoyt’s have one
of the Metro flappers, Viola Dana, en-
tangled in “The Threads of Fate.”
S: * #
Douglas Fairbanks spent three busy days
in “The Americano” at Melbourne Britannia
this week. Sylvia Bremer follows Douglas
to-day in the baseball fantasy, “The Pinch-
Hitter.” At the adjoining Melba Theatre
George Walsh, the Fox champion in farcical
comedy, is dissipating dollars in “Melting
Millions.”
Sj t
At Adelaide Tivoli the William Anderson
Co., getting at last a play more worthy of
its powers, has put in a good week with the
old “Christian.” This version is in four
acts, one scene to each act, so it has neces-
sarily to leave a good deal to the imagina-
tion. It has a (moderately) happy ending,
the great “Kiss-me-John” scene turning to a
prayer-meeting at curtain-fall. Lorna Forbes
is a discovery. Like Cross, who is the John
Storm, she plays quietly, and the reserve
force that both can show at a crisis is the
more effective. Fitzherbert is more than ad-
equate as the villain aristrocrat, and there is
good character-work by Dunbar, Beckett and
Hagan, Marie Wilton and (especially) Ida
“grumpy;’ at Melbourne royal.
Grumpy (Cyril Maude) rather angry , and
his valet (Edward Lester) rather hurt.
Gresham. The Cherniavskys are starting a
short season at Queen’s Hall, Gordon’s
ventriloquism brightens the Majestic bill, and
in pictures West’s continue to ask “Where
Are My Children?”
From the land of the kowhai:—
Massey and Ward are back from the War Cabinet
or whatever it was—Bill with a queer air of pom-
posity ; Joe with a mouthful of inconsequential
words. It transpires that Germany is already
“broken,” that there is going to be “cheap money,”
that “the people of the Empire are henceforward
partners, ’ that “the United States must in future
be regarded as part of the Empire” (it is Ward
speaking), that “we sold wool, cheese and meat at
good prices (it is Massey this time), that shipping
problems cannot be, discussed in detail, that there is
nothing to say about anything else, and that the
war is still going on—just the same old juiceless
varn that everybody had read a thousand times in
the newspapers until the job got too wearisome. It
may be true that Australia lost something through
not being represented at the London Conference, but
theie is no sign of it in the dull, vague, meaning-
less rigmaroles of Massey and Ward. If they have
brought back even a single new idea they keep it
carefully concealed behind a mass of blither.
A recent cable, in addition to the usual
.comments on German food shortage, threw
in the allegation that the uniforms of the
latest Hun prisoners were found to be made
or paper fibre. On the same day that these
new details of Hun trouble were published,
a letter from the Front came to The Bul-
letin wherein the writer told of a disastrous
counter-attack which had left heaps of Ger-
man slam before the Australian lines. The
writer, a major, mentioned that the enemv
had evidently come with the idea of staying
for he had provisions for 48 hours and over-
coats strapped to his back. The Australians
promptly collared the good substantial food
and found the overcoats so fine and warm
that a message was sent to Fritz to make
another attack and oblige yours faithfully
J here was no complaint about the garments
in that case, anyhow.
Dead at 74, George A. W. Kibble, a genial,
big-hearted Australian, father of the Com-
mercial TraveHers’ Club and once president
ot the United Commercial Travellers’ Asso-
ciations of Australasia. He came to Banana-
land from the South in ’BB to open a branch
tor Ins firm, but afterwards abandoned the
roads and went vigorously into dairying in
the rich Aerang district.
“Petifi”: A Billjim in France lately
heard his name called from a batch of Hun
prisoners halted near by. Bill walked over.
Don t you remember me?” asked a dilapi-
dated Iritz. doffing his cap. Bill did; they
had worked alongside each other for years
in Austrafia. “Why,” said Bill, reproach-
fuily, I got you your naturalisation papers
m Sydney, and now”- “All’s fair in love
and war, growled Fritz, and the prisoners
tramped off to the rear. Bill took the oppo-
site direction, thinking hard.
“Stripes”: When is the Defence Depart-
ment going to give Billjim the comfortable
area-officer’s job? Much the same army of
well-paid Government officers who divided the
spoil before the war still hold the
jobs; while Billjim, who has learned
more practical military business than
a dozen of them, is passed over. I
know of an individual in Sydney metropoli-
tan area who pockets £250 from the Educa-
tion Dept., supplements it with night-school
« a f £ v ™ shillings per hour - and tops it
off with £lOO per annum as area-officer. This
isn’t playing the game with Billjim, and the
Repatriation Committee should get to work
on it.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“C. Ocknev”: Now Tree has gone it is
reasonable to suppose that an Australian will
s.ep into his shoes as Britain’s premier actor-
manager, for Oscar Asche has faidy earned
the title. As a producer Oscar is far ahead
of anybody else in London, while as a legiti-
mate actor though he has his limitations lie
is the most interesting figure on the Metro-
politan boards and always gives good value
for the money. Tree was a “character” artist
pure and simple.' Some of his adventures in
heroic parts would have “got him the bird”
outside his own theatre, where, by the waf
Asche is in possession at the present time. ’
“S.T.S.”; I had the luck to be in at the
start of an afterwards-famous plav and
player. One day in London, in 1885, a
mend who was and is a good judge said
..Lets go and see a new thing, an adapta-
tion from the German—‘The Private Secre-
tary.’ All the papers have slated it as fool-
ishness, but, reading between the lines, I
think there’s something in it. And I want
to see this new chap, Beerbohm Tree.” We
went, and found it funny ; and so was Tree.
He was tall, though Penley immediately
afterwards made it a tradition that the Sec-
retary must be played by a small man. That
was when Tree was taken away to be the
villainous Macari in “Called Back.” With
that remarkable double he combined a really -
brilliant Malvolio at a charity performance
about the same time, and his fame as a
character-part player was established.
Bert Bailey, having made a moderate for-
tune out of Australian plays, is going to
risk some of it by staging the work of an
overseas dramatist whose name the writer
disremembers. The season will begin at the
King’s next month, the title of the first ex-
periment being “Much Ado About Nothing.”
The hero is to be played by lan
Maclaren, whose artistic performance in
“Ilindle Wakes” is remembered with
pleasure, and the supporting co. will
include Arthur Styan, George Bryant
and Ned Duggan. If given sufficient
encouragement, Bailey will present Sheri-
dan’s “The Critic,” “The Corsican Brothers,”
“David Garrick,” and, possibly, “The Tem-
pest,” G. B. Pshaw’s “Androcles and the
Lion” and one of the Greek tragedies. If
the imported drama is not rushed —well,
“On Our Selection” is always good for a
revival.
“Peg-Leg”: Wal Emerton lobbed into
Sydney lately with a sound lung, a banking
account and a cinematograph machine. He
must be Australia’s most unusual showman.
Eighteen months ago, when the doctor pro-
nounced his death sentence, Emerton threw
up his steady job as operator at a picture
show and bought a small “home” machine,
four reels of film and an acetylene lamp. He
went north to Bowen (Q.), and hoofed it to
a township 10 miles west, with his outfit
rolled up in a swag. He gave his first per-
formance in a bar-room, with a sheet stripped
from a bed as his screen. He always reckoned
on borrowing his screen that way; sometimes
it was a tablecloth; dozens of times a
whitewashed wall; once he got some foolscao
and pasted it up. If there were only 20
people in the place he dropped his kit and
got 4s. for a seat on a gin case. His show-
towns were anything from one to three days’
tramp apart, and his average takings about
£3 a performance. Incidentally he paid hall
rent on five occasions onlv. Number of
miles walked. 1100; net profits. £520. Now
he has booked a passage for America, some-
one having told him that an enterprising
youth can make quite a lot of cash there.
Charles Coleman (“Collman” off-stage), a
N.S.W. actor who footlighted wHh Julius
Knight, afterwards played at Daly's in Lon-
don and with Tree in New Yark. is on his
way to the Great Melodrama with an Eng-
lish regiment. He enlisted in Canada.
“Peter” : One disagreeable thing about the
new war films at Alelbourne Auditorium is
that William Hughes has managed to get
into the camera. The little poseur is shown
presumably Winning the War in conversa-
tion with Birdwood. and subsequently is dis-
covered strutting along a garden path obvi-
ously lost to all consciousness of everything
but the supreme necessity of keeping in the
picture. It can only be his sublime egotism
that prevents him realising that he is gro-
tesquely ineligible for a place in a picture
ostensibly sacred to the men who do things.
“Middle Blue”: Lizette Parkes is really
off to America this time. She has had her
trunks packed twice before, but mother un-
did them. The clever Australian is ready to
walk into anything from pictures to Shak-
peare at a minute’s notice. Lizette can
always say her parts backwards. She plaved
the Belle in The Belle of Mayfair” at four
days notice, and Dora in “Diplomacy” in a
little less. But that’s nothing. I have seen
her. week after week, take a part, in weekly
changes, equal to about a quarter the play.
1 hat would be on Saturday night at 31
o clock and she would be word-sure on Wed-
nesday morning at 30.
“Ancient Prompter”: One reason for Cyril
Maude not bringing his clever young actress-
daughter Margery to Australia as his leading
lady, according to “Johanna” (B. 2S/6/T7),
is that, having in contemplation a play in
which he (Maude) is the more or less youth-
ful lover, lie felt he couldn’t make stage-love
to Ins own daughter. Which is a very right
and proper view to take. All visiting mum-
mers have not been so punctilious in this
respect. Wasn’t it the late Charles Warner
who gave us a bit of a shock bv playing
Borneo to his daughter Grace’s Juliet?
“S.S.”: It was at an outer-suburban
entertainment given to sick soldiers by a
scratch party of amateurs the other evening.
One of the first performers was a bright
young soprano, she tried “A Perfect Day”
—tried it sorely. A canary hung in close
vicinity to the impromptu platform woke up
early in the performance, and began to
whistle. Three times the soprano strove
with her rival without success, and presently
she shut up, while a well-meaning attendant
removed the bird. Once more the soprano
stepped forward, all smiles; once more she
launched her vocal forces upon “A Perfect
Day.” She fought her way almost to the
end. and then in a sudden lull came a piteou«
moan from a sick Anzac: “For the love o’
Mike, bring back the canary!”
(Continued m page 26.)
DANCERS AND SINGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Singing soft, singing sweet,
Two minstrels there be,
And one is the Bush,
And the other the Sea.
0 soul that rejoices
in music out-chorused,
How rich are the voices
Of ocean and forest!
Evermore, when the wind
Puts her mouth to the tiute,
And the world all athrill
For her music grows mute,
To the sounds of her making,
The notes of her tuning,
The little waves breaking
Begin a sw T eet crooning.
O Folk of the Market,
The ocean is calling,
The waves on the beaches
Are swaying and falling;
As sweet bells together
Their music is ringing—
Come hither, come hither,
And hearken their singing!
Evermore, when the wind
Puts her hands to the lyre,
And the world stands athrill,
And athrob with desire,
To the sounds of her making,
Her mellow notes swimming,
The little leaves, waking,
Begin a sweet hymning.
O Folk of the Market,
The forest is calling,
The leaves in the sunshine
Are rising and falling;
All gold is the weather,
All Nature rejoices,
Como hither, come hither,
And hearken the voices!
Pacing soft, pacing slow,
Two dancers there be,
And one is the Bush,
And the other the Sea.
O maiden and stripling,
Ye lovers of motiori,
Behold the waves rippling
On forest and ocean!
Evermore, when the wind
Merry moments would seek,
And the feel of her robe
Is as silk to the cheek,
To the steps of her setting,
Her music entrancing,
The little waves petting
Begin a sweet dancing.
O Folk of the Market,
With pleasure uncloving,
The waves of the ocean
Are dancing and joying;
Shed shackle and tether
And Care that dishevels,
Come hither, come hither,
And witness their revels!
Evermore, when the wind
Wills the forest to dance,
And the trees bow their heads,
And the waterways glance,
By her gentle embraces
Enchanted completely,
The leaves in their places
Begin dancing sweetly.
O Folk of the Market,
The saplings are shining,
Head-tresses, red tresses
With green intertwining;
Shed shackle and tether
And care and annoyance—•
Come hither, come hither,
And join in their joyance!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


LADIES
IT IS THE LITTLE THINGS THAT COUNT.
THEY ARE, OFTEN ENOUGH, YOUR SECRET.
i>UT BEAUTY LAUGHS AT ALL DISTINCTIONS.
john 7|}ttMe lfWinter’s
TOILET PREPARA fIONS are THE G&fcvVTEST FRIEND OF WOMANKIND.
Oui > Soap, Powder (3 tints), tx?-kshmi Skin Cream and Lotion, New
Fac fc . Cream (3 colors), Dental Hair Foods (Oily and Non-Oily),
Caroline, Perspiration Powder, Dry\,Shampoo, Curative Ointment and'
Cr< fme Marquise
ar e usv id by ROYALTY and were AWAKED SIX GOLD MEDALS
O btaina ’lie from all Departmental Stores, Ci<si Service, Washington
Ft. Soul*. s, Lassetter’s, David Jones’, Farmer & W. T. Waters’
P&orderm ’> McCathie’s, McDowell & Hughes’, etc.
Send 2d. stamp for sample of Soap or Powder (name the tint) or
Ftental Cm eam > to John Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome).
Sj dney Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street,
jib Ibourne Office: 331 Collins Street.
laide Officer gteamship Buildings, Currie Street.
USHER'S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantlv-
Furnislied and Up-to-date Hotel‘is
compiete in every detail, and,
“ lana gement of Host
L sher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
-ihu- Se *7 lce WIU compare favor-
ablj with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
_l SlmP 'vilI 0l rego S r h i°g c h o rT f a t.^ tion that
ab2 M exSLSVE? r QUestion-
liave grev hair Ti.o *' e V 1 . or^er uot to
be changed back to a g mft ha ! r Cau easiI J’
few days’ time merely hv^ri* 1 col< \ r . in a
°f a simple old f<,2(„ j tlle application
harmless home-made loS? V» Kl perf f ctl y
J’our chemist two ounces of t 1 rocu^' e from
centrate and mix it with thi* “ ahte con "
rum Apply this to the hafrTf 68 °f- bay
with a small snone-e hau a few times
fhe pleasure of seeimr J*. J .° U Wll s ? on have
ally darkening to rlu> J< i" r - gl j ey a ir gradu-
lotion is pleasant m t es 1 shade. The
&and
exzerma
cation Of Exzerma in thl Us achiev ed by appli-
sionary who was suffering CaSe , °* a Papuan mis-
returned to the ff m Fely from Eczem a. He
Chemists, or from o t- curnL
S J 'lney, and leMe, '> p 'limlni ( k,
CURES
ECZEMA.
Society
MINCHINBURY
The Commonwealth Government is win-
ning- the war in the law courts, too. Some
time ago an astonishingly astute officer in-
spected a limestone property and furnished
reports upon its extraordinary value to tne
.Lommonweahh Government ‘in connection
-with the efforts to build a Federal city out
«ot a rabbit warren at Canberra. Up to that
itime the property had not been secured ; and
when the mostly-legal members of the pas-
toral syndicate which owned it saw the offi-
■eml reports they suddenly realised that, in-
. ' l^ ad of owning something worth £4 or £5
an agre for gazing jumbucks, they were the
pro, Possessors of an invaluable quarrv.
When ' tn . ei ' n , re ’ the Commonwealth offered
five or 55 hundl T d Pounds, the syndicate
replied v v a ™ odest request for a hundred
thousand , y return. Of course that meant
a law-action a Justice 1 erguson has lately
sat at the en, y 0 • a 1 ! ooni crowded with the
most expensive s . ln Sydney. The inter-
esting point on m *? 10st .u f t , he di8 P«te as
to value turns is v Aether the Pastoral
syndicate, in oalenO tlle value > has any
right to take into 'act ' ount the limest °ne at
all. Limestone is a mineral reserved to the
Crown; but as between two applicants to
work it —the private owners and another
the private owners would admittedly be given
preference. His Honor Ferguson didn t think
the legal pastoralists bad any right to put
the limestone in the bill. And that of course
ended the matter so far as he was concerned.
Really on that point, but nominally on a
question as to the admissibility of certain
evidence, the case goes on to the State’s
Supreme Court, and from there will no doubt
meander along to the Privy Council.
A lady who put off till to-morrow what she
could have done to-day, and is probably sorry
for it now, vainly asked for a decree nisi in
Victoria lately. Deserted in 3003, after 12
years of married life, she heard nothing of
her husband for a decade, her letters being
returned by the Dead Letter Office. She
was gradually arriving at an intention to
seek the divorce, which she could have got at
any time in the previous six or seven years,
when the lost hubby dropped her a line
from Maoriland desiring the loan of a fiver.
She was surprised into the fatal mistake of
sending it. After that he came back to Mel-
bourne, and though she ‘‘saw no justification
for ending her grass-widowhood, she con-
tributed to his support.” In the eye of the
law, though a woman is entitled to a divorce
if a man deserts her for three years (or five,
as the case may be), she is not entitled to
anything of the sort if, after deserting her
for 10 years, he comes back to her neighbor-
hood and manages to wheedle or bully a few
shillings out of her. So Justice a’Beckett
decided; and the Law earned another thistle.
‘‘Futsac”: The flat contained two cubicles
and a kitchenette; a few obstacles were
placed here and there on the floor and called
furniture. The obliging agent was content
with 355. a week for the place. That didn’t
make the cost of living seem very high, but
this is the bill for “extras” we got at the
end of the first week: Use of bath, 2s. 6d.;
use of cutlery. 25.; use of gas, 3s. 6d.; use
of linen, 2s. Gd.; use of laundry (once), Is.
Gd.; electric light, 25.; and, last of all, use
of main hall through which to receive visitors
with more swank than our humble side-
entrance provided, ss. Add that on to the
rent, and there’s £2 14s. blown without a
bite to eat. It is the estate agent’s new ruse
to sign up Mrs. Three-Hundred-a-Year on
a lease at an almost-modest figure, and then
run in a bill of astounding weekly extras,
which she must have because the flat is built
to necessitate them.
“Wonga”: T. W. Hene.v, editor of the
S. M. Herald, recently sang in that journal
a Te Deum Laudamus for the N.S.W.
Western men of a quarter of a century ago.
The glorification of the lean, sunburnt man
of the Outback is always popular, and as far
as the individual is concerned he is one of
the best. But when he of 30 or 40 years
ago is glorified as a nation-builder and so
on, Romance is up against hard facts. When
the cold-blooded historian of the future gets
busy, so far from setting down the West-
erners of the time Heney writes about as
A MOVABLE FEAST.
HE: "When is Grace’s birthday?”
SHE: "The week after she’s met a new young
man.”
broad-visioned nation builders, he will be
likely to catalogue them as shortsighted
wreckers. The historian will not know the
men: he will only judge them by the way
they handled their job. They went out with
hungry hands to pull all they could get from
the soil and cared not a darn for to-morrow.
The West of to-day tells the story. Greed
and narrow vision led to overstocking, from
FAST.
HER: “What is its name, Will?”
HIM: “Pretty Jane —after my fiancee, you know!”
HHER AGAIN: "Oh, bat I didn't know you knew she was that sort of girl!”
which the State, pastorally, has not yet
recovered. Denuded of the protective salt-
bush and other edible growth, the over-
stocked plains were cruelly scarred by
droughts. Countless acres, once richly fer-
tile, became marred, “scalded” patches that
have never grown a blade since. With the
pressure of population some day demanding
utilisation of every acre, future generations
will have to coax back the lost fertility and
the saltbush and herbage. Here and there
the job is being tackled already; and gener-
ally the VS est is being handled by men who,
though maybe less picturesque, are at any
rate far more deserving of the Herald’s
eulogies.
“Copabella - ' : Our municipality owns an
ahead-of-the-times councillor with a quaint
obsession that every worker should have a
decent home and enough yard about it to
allow a bed-spread to swing on the
line without fraying its edges on
the back verandah and the boun-
dary fences. So when the usual
subdivider s slum-plan came along
the Utopian tried hard to have it
cast out while he got the council
to adopt the minimum-allotment
recommendation of the Town Plan-
ning Conference. Fellow council-
lors were inveigled into “deferring”
the slum plan on one pretext after
another until a recent week, when
Cr. Lotfive, a land-agent with a
fellow feeling, remarked in a
shocked voice on the delay being
caused to the subdivider. He
agreed with the paladin that the
blocks were not all that could be
desired —they averaged 1700 feet
less than the minimum recom-
mended as necessary to comfort
and nygiene—but it was very un-
fair to keep a subdivider waitin"
in this way. Other Bumbles agreed
and that amazing council passed
l°J ' lt < tunc a whole street of :i~> x
oo dog-runs rather than inconveni-
ence a speculator so keen on get-
ting every possible inch out of "his
estate that he overlooked rights-of-
way altogether from his plan'
1 here will be a fine old bill for
1 osterity to pay when the kid
wakes up and starts out on a clean-
up, of its diphtheria-beds and its
"1, . . ~ Surely to Heaven
this isn’t the sort of job that ought to be
entrusted to a lav body of local land-agents
and such like, who mostly haven’t a soul of
their own : Ui Ul
* * *
, a t Liverpool’ camp
(VS.W.) with a batch of Bananaland re-
inforcements, I had a look round. At the
new entrance is an ornamental fountain and
miniature lake. The lake happens to be
finished, and what it contained pretty near
finished all of us Northerners —six bunches
of fresh-water hyacinth, the worst water-
pest in Australia! The seeds are bound to
get into the river running past the camp,
and in two years you’ll be able to cross with-
out worrying about the bridge. In three
years the Nepean and Parramatta will be
finished for rowing or any purpose in the
rainy season. I’ve seen the Brisbane River
blocked for navigation by hyacinth, and in
10 days the councils along its banks a while
ago spent close on £24.000 fighting it. Once
give the curse a start and it will do more
damage than all the Huns Australia ever
interned. Y\ hat Simple Simon is respon-
sible ?
* * *
It moves:—.
Ka.dina, 'One 30.- —llrs. \\. J. Gunn, who has been
appointed to the Gilles-street School, was tendered a
farewell social by the members of the bowling club
to-night. Mr. C. P. Rcndell presided, and presented
A h rfviT« r en n UrTv Wlth a case of PipesA- Adelaide
n lIV BiKl UsfcK yo /i / in.
But. brothers, they can never strike a match
as we do !
* * *
1..P.L.” : The unit was engaged on a 17-
mile march, and what with a heavy pack
and blankets things were none too pleasant.
Wirefence and Brigalow, two hard-case
bushmen were marching together, and when
wed put 10 miles behind us Wirefence
bi’^ le »w^ e r tho Ug h,. that hi,d been troubling
him. What yer limping for. Bill?” Bill
whose boots also had seen considerable ser-
vice, grunted that a nail was sticking in his
mm Se fb an “ WelL wh -v don ’t you
pull the flamin’ thing out?” Bill spat in
the dust. lull it out be Mowed! Think I
want to lose the blanky sole!”
A cry from St uthern Palestine
\l/ thai°n T" fit ™ n 0f milital '- v age about here.
IfVu ta f“1 ,S d0l " g its bit - The Question is:
It Australia can t or won’t or doesn’t want to send
<he men required to settle this little world-eruption
had we better give ourselv -s l)p to the enemv and
‘‘oWgfnah’ 4 blo ° dshed? ' n,crt< are still a few
onginals m our unit who are well on in their
had years service; but when w,- see how few is it
arTLtt 00 offe, fT e t 0 say that Wf don’t think we
pessimistic B - It 1 ' deal fr ° m ho!ne ' ; tVe are not
and Z "oil n” k f ~o" ;'v e. a re win the war,
and quicker, and hfw '
h rj d be «-741
“u
little lot of 130 had tn i” , ,1 °. 1 of a cobber s
sent to the rear Oi lRm left ,n the front or
game. 11 BUL ™’ * *«n’t playing the
BULLETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The flitting bullets flow and flock ;
They twitter as they pass;
They’re picking at the solid rock,
They’re rooting in the grass.
A tiny ballet swiftly throws
Its gossamer of rust,
Brown fairies on their little toes
A-dancing in the dust.
You cower down when first they come
With snaky whisper at your ear ;
And when like swarming bees they hum
You know the tinkling chill of fear.
A whining thing will pluck your heel,
A whirring insect sting your shin;
You shrink to half your size, and feel
The ripples o’er your body steal—
’Tis terror walking in your skin !
The bullets pelt like winter hail,
They whistle and they sigh,
They shrill like cordage in a gale,
Like meowing kittens cry;
They hiss and spit, they purring come,
Or, silent all a span,
They rap, as on a slackened drum,
The dab that kills a man.
Rage takes you next. All hot you face
The bitter void, and curses leap
From pincered teeth. The wide, still space
Whence all these leaden devils sweep
Is Hell where fiends by day and night
Are groping for your heart to sate
In blood their diabolic spite.
You shoot in idiot delight,
Each winging slug a hymn of hate.
The futile bullets scratch and go,
They chortle and they coo.
I laugh my scorn, for now I know
The thing they cannot do.
They flit like midges in the sun,
But liowso thick they be
What matter, since there is not one
That God has marked for me!
An Eastern old philosophy
Comes home at length and passion stills
The thing will be that is to be,
And all must come as Heaven wills
Where in the swelter and the flame
The new, hot, shining bullets drip
One in the many has an aim,
Inwove a visage and a name—-
No man may give his fate the slip!
The bullets thrill along the breeze,
They drum upon the bags,
They tweak your ear, your hair they tease,
And peck your sleeve to rags.
Their voices may no more annoy—
I chortle at the call:
The bullet that is mine, my boy,
I shall not hear at all!
The busy bullets rise and flock;
They whistle as they pass;
They’re chipping at the solid rock,
They’re skipping in the grass.
Out there the tiny dancers throw
Their sober skirts of rust,
Brown flitting figures tipping toe
Along the golden dust.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


I believe it was Clements Tonic cheated death from claiming
me as its victim.
“I was pronounced incurable
by those best able to judge.”
Read this wonderful story of
restored health and strength
from a condition of General
Weakness. This recovery
was the direct result of using
CLEMENTS TONIC.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
, rfhe lowing letter is remarkable for its earnestness
who are run down with debility of the s
in the Parramatta district, New South wi
can easily be verified. How she snffprorl
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I would be lackin
Tonic has done for me. It may
Palmer House, Cooper Street
Granville, N.S.W., 15/4/’l6.
“I would be lacking in generosity to you and the errwnvwe, iV.fc'.iy., 15/4/’IG.
v,z trjzrsj) %> *•** make knmcn M ciemmu
even able to walk about. I was in four’different tllness: »u' greater part of that time I was not
knife played havoc on my nervous constitution, so ilia! I "wafZt‘atf,7 a,e i “"T i" me ' 1 hmw the d read of the
~ ./ wys pronounced an Incurable and sent home bit those ~i, V W v" k m body iut weak in nerves.
£ w erpeetinytosee the wTOJTA.'K.J"' ««* «? /•**
death from ThZ ZldWh/ »£« «»' * *« 'oieJZZroZ* ollaTZ
«"^«VPutlink r ir ma «"« « toould beZZI,
Dated: 19th April, 1916.
1 on may use this as you think fit.
“(Signed) ALICE CRAFT.”
Semi for this medicine to-day, and send ill-health rieht
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE '
8.T.1 met him in a Colli ns-street bar.
He was explaining to a full house: “No
damn fear! I’m no dashed pacifist. I’ve
got a blank good cook, and she’s going to
get married when this sanguinary war is
over!”
* * * *
Te Babarantiko ’ inspects our new pro-
perty : 1
The climate in the ex-German part of New Guinea
is nowhere salubrious, but some places are worse
than others. Among these latter is flat, low-lying
Madang, with its fever-haunted plantations. Eitape,
near the Dutch New Guinea border, is worse, con-
si,ting of extensive jungle-clad swamps. Deceptive
little hillocks rise from the low water-soaked coun-
try, giving promise of an extension of higher land
behind. The promise is a false one, for immediately
behind each hillock the country stretches, water-
covered, to the next deceptive little elevation.
On New Britain,
with its malaria and
blackwater fever, its
dysentery and its rain-
water containing a
deadly liver-boring
parasite, Lindenhafen
holds front-'rank as an
immense hatchery of
anophele, to say
nothing of rheumatism
and cramps. The prin-
cip a 1 hatcheries are
putrid creeks criss-
crossing evil swamps.
Even lands of fair
elevation have theii
quota of fever and ob-
scure man-rotting ail-
ments. Kieta town,
over on the great island
Bougainville, northern-
most and largest of
the Solomon Archi-
pelago, stands fairly
high on an elevated
miniature plain, but is
nevertheless a fever
spot. Not that there is
much stagnant water
about Kieta, but there
is another evil it seems
impossible to overcome.
The “pitchers,” formed
at the junction of the
branches and the trunks
of the large-leaved palm
family hold rainwater
wherein the andphele
breed very comfortably.
To flood all these “pit-
chers” with kerosene is
obviously impossible.
The only industry being
the growing of cocoa-
nuts, the plantations
must remain, and
fever-stricken men
continue to be sent in all haste from this and other
out-stations to the imposing hospital at Rabaul
for treatment.
AN OPTICAL ILLU-
SION.
“Dear, your frock looks
shorter!”
“Yes, darling, I think it
must be I notice
that when I wear it
the men look longer.”
Bap-poz-som : Old Billjim gets in bv the
early door every time. Kecently some Brit-
ish cavalry, who had been told that there
fr ° nt ° f thGm but the “emv,
i' lV p Wlth • Ca . re on a broken French vil-
i-hll' n° ltrin ? with regulation caution
they gradually encircled the ruins When
men 6 soe°n were sighted, the horse-
men scented a surprise attack and prepared
a 3 fr , lGndly arm waved and
mi!a l’ d a i 000-ee! came down the wind.
Ihe supposed Hun rearguard proved to be
six Australian mlantrymen who were iust
havmg a look round-two or three miles
ahead of their battalion!
AWFUL SIGHTS.
THE MISS : “You must have seen some awful
sights on the other side."
THE RETURNED: “ Sights, Miss! Gripes,
yes; I seen some in the Chamber of
’Orrors at Madam Tussord’s as would
make yer ’air stand on end."
Ancient Prompter”: There is many a
true word spoken even in the witness-box. A
busy Melbourne man, having sat for two
days as a juryman in the Criminal
Court, wanted exemption on the third, as
pressing matters in connection with his busi-
ness had cropped up. He was ordered into
the box to give his reasons on oath, and in
the formula of the court had to repeat the
words: I will well and truly answer all
questions that may be put to me by this
honorable Court.” The juror thereupon got
stage-fright. Getting his lines mixed, he re-
cited something about “humble Court.”
Being assured that the Court was anything
but “humble,” the poor man had another
dash, and, getting still more “fluffy,” made
it hoirible Court.” He was, of course,
Ml u e< i Up again i but anyone who knows the
ill-lighted and generally depressing cave of
Justice will thank him for his definition.
Says a prominent Melbourne parson :
1 tell you that limited families at a time like
this mean racial ruin. The perambulator must be
in every home. No perambulator, no prosperity.
Yes, wheel or woe!
(B - 14/6/T7) says all
tne Candidate s crew perished but one. As
a matter of fact they were all drowned. Pour
of us witnessed this tragedy at Port Mac-
quarie--a police constable, my brother and
myself (we were on the old School Hill
watching the vessel attempt the crossing)
and John Blayney, the pilot on duty up at
the I lagstaff. There was a fair roll on the
b«ir at the time, but I had seen many vessels
cross in without aid in worse weather. The
signals showed the crossing “safe” and the
ship had got well on her way when an extra-
large wave lifted her stern clean out of the
water and threw her on to her beam ends
W e immediately started to rouse the town
and get the tug-boat out. But there was no
steam up on the little vessel, and the delav
in getting her under way probably cost at
least two lives. The captain and mate made
bold bids for life; the mate could be seen
from the hills swimming with his head
under water just before the pilot-boat
leached him. The old ship came ashore and
was for a long time on an improvised slip
under the hill She was subsequently re-
launched and fitted out, only to come to'
g '‘. more and drown her crew. One
effect of the earlier tragedy was the subsidis-
ing by the S. Wales Government of
coastal tugboats, a condition being that thev
should always have steam up.
sEejSJvS frS-waws
a Al ?erica, became small boatmen and
took an interest in local politics That Ms
elv Som t ? e W -T Co “ st '
wh Jro !, "° alongside wharves even
where there are such things. This huhif
helps to make steamer travelling there -in
wa P A M ‘(rU Uio v r h ? he W" tie
u h. om Valparaiso to Antofasrast-i
bourne—was HfS di ' S R nc , e as S - vdu, A' to Mel-
/ - Boat hire each end was
anything from os. upwards—say about 10s
more extra. ithout counting tips, the trip
cost about £lO. If your
luggage, or you, were
dropped overboard dur-
ing transhipment it was
most extra to get it (or
you) out. When Val-
paraiso built its first
w harf for ocean-going
steamers, passengers re-
joiced—for about 15
minutes. The first
steamer to use the
wharf unloaded happy
passengers thereon. But
they found the entrance
gates locked, and the
only way off the wharf
was per boat to the
landing stage—and the
boatmen collected a
little extra for luck.
Only ex-pirates could
work a stylish graft like
that. Nowadays,
steamers rarely use the
wharf, and then only
for cargo. Big harbor
works are under con-
struction in Valparaiso
now. A breakwater
about 1000 feet long is
nearly finished. The
depth of water at the
end is 150 feet. But the
contractor explained to
me that they were also
building a floating pon-
toon for landing passen-
gers from row-boats “in case the new wharves
would not be used for embarking and dis-
That
* * *
From a Billjim in France:—
Our division has put up a record, being in all 82
days in the line without relief. Last night our
officers gave us a dinner, and afterward we had a
concert in recognition of the splendid work which
our ambidance stretcher-bearers and other members
of the unit have done. At the dinner, instead of the
privates waiting on the officers, the officers waited
on us We were calling our major “Waiter,” and
he called us “Sir,” so you can imagine the sort of
officers we have.
And the sort of men the officers have It is
only that which makes such things possible.
One of Melbourne’s orphan asylums—the
elderly establishment at mouldy old Brigh-
&\ n , the ancient Dendy-road—has had a
lot ot disagreeable things said
about it lately. Somebody
Star t? d the trouble, right in the
middle of bitter cold weather,
by asking why the children at
the asylum, ranging from three
to 14 years, were forced to get
'JP at six o’clock each morning,
the superintendent of the in-
stitution, which is a wealthy
toundatmn, replied with the
tactful remark that the bell had
been rung thus “every morning
for the past 38 years,” and that
it was necessary to get the
orphans out early so that they
might be in time for school!
I hen an “old boy” gave his
festimony concerning earlv-ris-
mg on cold, dark
mornings, when the
children were
“marched, scantily
clad, down the stairs
to the bathroom to
have a cold douche.”
oome of them often
cried with the cold.
All sorts of things
have happened to
make children un-
happy in Belgium
since the Huns started
to ravage that coun-
try ; and it is impos-
sible for the average
citizen to read of past
doings in that forlorn
country without feel-
ing a lump rise in his
throat. Any lumps to
spare for the home-grown orphan?
iim V tf a^ Dd ” : Lemme remark that Bill-
Ate s aa c ; s ™S' nis
diered a generation or two farther back, I'd
have known it the week Ally Sloper
arrived in Shoe Lane, Fleet-street. This
war hasn’t anyways come up to the standard
of South Af. for the trick of finding appro-
priate tags to regimental initials. (The
legiment concerned _was frequently apt
to dispute the adjective “appropriate,”
though.) It is true that “Robbers and Mur-
derers’ Corps,” or “Rob All My Comrades”
probably dated back, like “Ally Sloper’s
Cavalry,” to a good while before 1900, but
that was certainly the vintage brand of
Chamberlain’s Innocent Victims” or “Can
A. enture” of the C.I.V. (City Imperial
V olunteers not at all beloved by the ordinary
regular on account of the barrels of many-
adjectived admiration poured over ’em by the
London press in and out of season). The
S.A.L.H. only required one quick-breathed
rumor of having failed to stand up to the
music properly to be “Scoot Away Like
Hell, while “Brabant’s Horse” (a mightv
good fight-with-the-mitts-off crowd) must
have had some playful fashion of pay-
mg oft scores to earn their title of
Burn the House” or “Brothers’ Hor-
ror « at Stead’s then famous
query, Shall I Slay my Brother Boer?”). I
coufd string out the list indefinitely, but cut
m W1 T > h -5 ? an ?P le of tbe savage contempt that
the British Army usually ladles out on any
cold-blooded, premeditated swank. “Some-
body s Fighting Scouts”—well, The Bul-
letin wouldn’t print it if I wrote it. but
anyone who knows the unpleasant side of
the language of the army in Flanders will
easily guess what F.S. was made to stand
ror. By the way, the much-more-up-to-date
and appropriate name of the A.S.C. in France
is the * Army Safety Corps.”
“Rustler”: All the sentimental telegraph-
ists used to like to work the A line.
ihe attraction was a nice girl operator at
one of the stations. We all knew Lucy (by
wire), and many times had an operator
staj ed after his shift was finished merely to
have a “yarn” with the dear, shy little thing.
We could never pick at what office she was
at. There were 14 stations on the line, and
after eliminating those at which we knew
only male telegraphists were employed, we
narrowed the search down to four. But
which of those four sheltered Lucy we could
newr discover. One of the men who was
more privileged than the rest at last
announced that Lucy was coming to Mel-
bourne, and had made an appointment with
mm tor the following evening. The dav after
the meet we worried him for a description
of our female lightning-jerker, but he flatly
refused to tell us anything, although it was:
noticed he was unusually quiet. For two-
days he kept us guessing; then, in a burst
of confidence,, he told us the horrible truth.
Lucy, the invisible, who had captured all our
hearts, was a mean fake. She was not a
gin at all, but a man, with a genius for tap-
ping sweet flirtatious nothings! Since that
day 1 have never blithered to any woman I
couldn t see.
FOR HIS
ENCOURAGEMENT.
"Oh. no. I never ride in a smoking com-
partment—I so dislike the smell of
smoke."
"But that needn’t stop you—they only use
smokeless powder now, you know.”
A SEA TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
way'l eeptT () th T’° lga plcked l,p a new rail '
pieked up a ™i he ? rmer , trl P the Gunandaal
whether The, p " collar - . but is known
nether there is any connection between the two.”
From port the stout State trawlers fared,
And steamed a course to Eden Bay.
The sun his flaming whiskers bared
The seas were silken all the way.
But, oh, the sea, the sea is deep,
here fish and dead bananas sleep!
The} cast their nets, and drew them in.
They sorted bream and mackerel;
And small-fish, tall fish, fat and thin,
And devil-fish that smelt of Hell.
But oh, the sea, the sea is grim
Where nymphs and bad tomatoes swim !
And then the fishermen turned pale,
And held a soaking collar high.
A monster mullet wagged his tail;
A sprat distinctly heaved a sigh.
For oh, the sea, the sea is murk
Where bones and sherry-bottles lurk!
Again they cast their nets and trawled
A raihvay-sleeper from below-,
Where sllmily loose sea-things crawled.
, “ Th ese. tell,” they said, “a tale of woe.”
1’ or oh, the sea, the sea is grey
Where tragedies and tripe decay!
The port the pale State trawlers sought.
Their sirens large compassion groaned.
The fish in nets of pathos caught
A dirge of studs and splinters moaned.
lor oh, the sea, the sea is wide
Where destiny and dinners hide!
White scales and silver tail and fin,
Black ink that harried pressmen spill !
The tragic ocean and its sin
Are items for a starry bill.
Bid some sad railway suicide
To join its drowned steam-laundry bride?
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET


SQUEEZING THE BOTTLE.
HUGHES: “You can take those away for the present, William. There’s a little drop left in the old bottle.”


THEY WITHDRAW EVERYTHING.
DEPUTATION OF CHASTENED CARTOONISTS (to the President of a Great Republic): “Please, sir, we take it all back!”


Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
■wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrow#.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer’s*
/
LEWIS&WMITTY
MEmOUf\ME & SYDNEY.
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
•iiu yoU Wlll feel , the benefit. The bowels
vail be gently relieved, and the stomach
c eansed and sweetened as the undigested
tood is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
S r °w clean again and the head will be
7 ar ' d - c , lea l ed - Tbere is no mistaking
.effects of California Syrup of
igs Califig.” Directions are with it for
adults and children of all ages. This
nr7 a a\ nt ! axatlve is B°°d for all, and cannot
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
.um must ask for “Califig”—California
of , il ? s ’, and lo °k for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
. <*"**«* ? “Califig”—California
i/i i P ln bottles of two sizes,
t/lf and 1/9. n
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
Joe Cook, according to the Melbourne
papers, is wholly responsible for the reap-
pearance of the Speaker’s wig. Behold
Joseph in his new character of a little hair
restorer!
THE COOLNESS.
HE: “Why, I feel frozen just looking at
you.”
SHE: “That teas my intention.”
Justice n'Beckett’s retirement makes it
unlikely that C-J. Madden will say good-bye
to his job yet awhile. Only £4OOO a year is
available for pensions for Vic. Supreme Court
Judges. Hartley Williams has been drawing
£l5OO annually for 14 years (and spending
it in England), and a'Beckett will also re-
ceive £l5OO, leaving only £lOOO a year for
anybody else. And £2O a week isn’t tempt-
ing enough to make C.J. Madden remember
that he is 73.
Killed last week by a “pip-squeak” in
Flanders, while showing N.S.W. Premier
Holman around- the lines, Brig.-General
Holmes, the man who in the first days of
the war took possession of Rabaul (German
New Guinea) on behalf of the Common-
wealth. But he is not to be fairly judged by
that rowdy performance: probably no man
could have made a satisfactory showing with
such an undisciplined little lot of adven-
turers as those that left Australia for the
North in the first mad days of the war. Sub-
sequently, on the other side of the world, he
did surprisingly well. At home in Sydney
before the Great Trouble he was secretary
of the Water and Sewerage Board and a
militia officer. The taste for soldiering
was hereditary: his father came to Australia
with the old Twelfth Regiment and was for
years afterwards on the clerical side of the
N. S. Wales establishment.
MISCALCULATION.
OLD GENT (to hoy, who had just collided
with him): “Dammit, hoy, ain’t I big
enough to see?”
THE KID: “ Ye-es, hut I didn’t think you
was too old to dodge!”
Justice Booth, of Westralia, was on board
the mined Mongolia. He is one of Groper-
land’s two bachelor judges (NorthmOre is
the other) and is a rotund, immaculate per-
son with a monocle and a penchant for
pretty girls. He dabbles in music and
French literature.
Died at St. Ivilda (Vic.), at SS, Augusta
Mary Gurtier, daughter of Edward Curr,
who managed affairs at Circular Head for
the V.D.L. Co. and probably did more to
improve Australian stock, by judicious im-
portation of reliable strains, than John
Macarthur himself. Her brother, Edward
Mickletwaite Curr, was a plough-and-pasture
writer, and author of a comprehensive book
on aborigines. “The Australian Race.” Mrs.
Gurner’s husband. Henry Field Gurner, sec-
ond son of John Gurner, Chief Clerk of the
Sydney Supreme Court, accompanied Justice
Willis to Melbourne when that eccentric
and choleric personage was appointed first
resident Judge of Port Phillip in 1841. In
'At. when Victoria separated from N. S.
Wales, Gurner became Crown Solicitor. A
son, John A., carries on the family tradition,
being one of Vic.’s Crown Prosecutors. A
century’s continuous practice of the law by
one family must be an Australian record.
Just-dead solicitor George Moir had every-
thing to. do with preparing the case for the
defence in the famous Speight v. Age action.
It was he, the genial and sympathetic, who,
when a juryman fell sick, saw that delicacies
were duly forwarded to the patient with
Gillott, Croker and Snowden’s best compli-
ments. And when the sick juryman died,
what a grief it was to the managing clerk of
David Syme’s solicitors! He had to attend
the funeral in rivalry with young Stewart,
who represented the firm of Malleson, Eng-
land and Stewart on behalf of plaintiff
Speight. The Bulletin of the period stated
that the ambassadors each had instructions
not to let the other fellow mourn more obvi-
ously than himself, lest the 11 surviving jury-
men might be biassed towards the wrong
side. So they watched one another like two
trombones in an orchestra.
Out at Long Creek, the far side of Mud-
gee (N.S.W.), the other day, the Rev. Canon
Dunstan joined in wedlock Auguste Hero
widower, aged 71, and Mary Ann Duval'
widow, aged 80. The bride was “given
away” by a Mr. Hooper, who has passed the
S4th milestone.
Two copper prows are a feature °f the
wharf-laborers’ building m FlinderS-stieet,
Melbourne. They were hammered by Lance
Corporal R. 11. Moore, 3rd Australian lio-
neers. who has just been killed in action.
A skilled metal-worker and a demonstratoi
at the Technical College, lie was completing
the rostra when Wilhelm brought more mod-
ern battle-craft into the game. The des gns
were by R. J. Haddon, a leading Melbourne
architect.
From The Bulletin's friend at I etro-
grad:— .
Let me introduce you to Lenin, the revolutionary
who is trying to make Russia take the wrong turn-
ing. His real name is Vladimir Hitch Ulianoff,
he was born on the Volga, and brought up on a
mixture of dynamite and Marxism, long regarded in
his family as proper sustenance for the young. All
his brothers were “politicals.” One was hanged in
Petrograd in 1887 for alleged complicity in a plot
to assassinate Alexander 11., and Lenin has only
escaped by sentencing himself to exile in foreign
places. He has lived frequently in Paris, where
he founded The Spark. In Switzerland, which is
covered with his tracks, he sat behind the Ixter-
nationap Socialist. During one of his brief resi-
dences in Russia he had a try for the second Duma,
but was stifled by a solid bourgeois vote. He has
written two or three books, mostly essays on Capital,
and has been treated with suspicious consideration
by the Central Empires. At the beginning of the
war he was caught in Cracow, but was mysteriously
released and returned luxuriantly to Russia. As
late as last year he was about the only Russian
who was guaranteed a free pass in Germany. A
Petrograd journal declared that he had travelled
over Germany in a military train. This may not
be true, but it is certain that Lenin is one of those
prophets who are not without honor in enemj"
countries.
“Nemo” : Thomas a'Beckett, the Victorian
Supreme Court Judge, is going to retire at
the end of July. “Tom” deserves his spell.
He was always a hard worker at the Bar,
and he has toiled well on the Bench for 31
years. In the long ago I “did” the Law
Courts, and every day I saw the solemn face
and heard the discoursive voice of “Mr.
a’Beckett, the Equity barrister.” You never
saw Tom in any but the Equity Court, talk-
ing by the hour or day, sometimes by the
week, to Justice Robert Molesworth, whose
place on the Bench he afterwards took. In
the old days, the work in the Equity Court
was almost entirely in the hands of Tom
a’Beckett and Webb, who used to be a Gov-
ernment shorthand writer before he went to
the war. Trying criminal cases must have
come strange to Tom a’Beckett, who used
to revel in big wills and Equity suits. Tom
a’Beckett’s father and grandfather were
attorneys, and Tom lisped law when he could
lisp at all. His uncle was the State’s first
Chief Justice. Tom came to Australia in
IS6O, arid 15 years later married a daughter
of Archibald Michie, Q.C.. who among other
things was Times correspondent in Australia.
If a suitor wanted to set the jury laughing,
he got Michie and. most likely, a verdict.
Judge a’Beckett’s father wrote a book on
painting and painters, and his uncle the
Chief Justice did a lot of poeti-y and
biography.
MAJOR P. C. RARER, Deputy-Assistant-
Adjutant and Quartermaster-General of
Tasmania, now leaving for the Front.
Henry Chant, dead in S. Avis, at 92. was
a Devonshire boy who came to Australia
early and .spent his life in boat-building.
Nearly every famous racing yacht seen in
Adelaide waters was of his making, and the
most famous of the lot, Thomas Elder’s
Enchantress, was neatly named partly in ins
honor. In more solid work he built boats
for the Murray and Lakes trade, and was
always game to sail them himself round
from Port Adelaide and in through the dan-
gerous Murray mouth. He did good work,
too in 1859. in recovering from the Admella
(Adam Lindsay Gordon’s “Wreck”) some
of the silver bars she cairied.
HENRIETTA ADMIRED PLUCK.
MEEKTON : “I forgot myself and spoke
angrily to my wife.”
FRIEND: “Did she resent it?”
MEEKTON : “For a moment. But Henrietta
is a fair-minded woman. After she had
thought it over she shook hands with me
and congratulated me on my bravery.”
Dead in Adelaide, William Hudd, 73. He
was the first to show S. Aus. that it might
make chocolate and other sweets, instead of
importing everything. A son is the clever
young debater who had a seat in the S.A.
Assembly during the last Parliament, and is
now doing more useful work in France.
The late Judkins has just been restored
to public recollection by a memorial window
in Wesley Church, Melbourne. The indomit-
able little wowser and his career are symbo-
lised by St. George and the Dragon, and that
was kinder than depicting him as Don
Quixote tilting at a windmill. Better, too.
because Judkins positively achieved things. He
helped to make the Collingwood Tote scandal
impossible of continuance, and incidentally
lv served his fellow-man by demanding decent
behavior of the Law which is supposed to
protect the weak. Judkins didn’t rave about
things spiritual, but he was a fair wowser
in regard to things legal. He was the prac-
tical working wowser as contrasted with the
reverend wailing Willies. So he deserved a
memorial. In the cause of public decency
he attacked people and things. People who
want glass windows should always throw
stones. And nobody else should get them.
George Moir, the Melbourne solicitor who
died last week, enjoyed the distinction of
having had an Act of Parliament made for
him. Twenty years ago, whilst he was act-
ing as managing-clerk to Gillott and Bates,
an Act was put through to enable old manag-
ing clerks to pass a final examination to
qualify for full-fledged lawyership. Gillott
and other political friends of Moir worked
the point for the popular legal identity, and
he passed the exam, with flying colors. Moir,
who came fra’ Glasgow in his early child-
hood, was originally the managing man for
McKean and Leonard. Later on he became
the hard-worker for the wealthy firm of Gil-
lott, Croker and Snowden, and managed the
defence of Tiie Age in the famous Speight v.
Syme suit. That suit, by the way, resulted
in a break-up of the oddly-assorted firm into
three firms. George Moir went with his
friend Sam Gillott, and then the Act was
passed which permitted the firm to be known
as Gillott, Bates and Moir. Four years ago
the good old sport broke down in an appar-
ently hopeless way, but he made an aston-
ishing recovery, and until recently would go
to the races and have his little flutter as of
old. In his young days he played cricket a
lot. and he was a first-class rifleshot. His
tall son George, now in the firm, was an ama-
teur champion runner up to the time of his
marriage.
John Packer, who got into Vic. public
notice a few years ago as secretary of the
“Liberal Workers,” still holds that under-
worked job; but nowadays he runs as well
an auctioneering business at Oakleigh. As
John has one of these rich voices, like 71b.
of two-inch nails poured into a brown-paper
bag, he has probably struck the right occupa-
tion at last. In their heyday the Liberal
Workers got a lot of notice from right-
thinking newspapers; but though they took a
hand in the recent Win-by-Jaw campaign,
the lackerites might as well have been flies
on the ceiling for all the press publicity tliey
received. Still, they served their turn for
the Liberal cause.
HRUSILOFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cossacks . clattered down the pass,
The great guns rolled behind;
And blood was on the mountain grass
And tears upon the wind.
A rolling cloud of blackest doom,
The Russian triumph came
To give the fettered peoples room
And break the Austrian shame.
No power might stem that rushing tiue
That through the mountains roared.
Where splendid legions eager-eyed
Flamed into one keen sword.
The German trembled in his might,
The Magyar lords were dumb;
And millions straining to the light
Believed the Day had come.
Behind the tumult and the flame
The man of purpose stood ;
Sure in his wide-wrought battle-aim,
He knew the omens good.
Beyond the sweep of pain and death
He saw the peace-to-be—•
The loud world-trumpet filled with breath
Of crowning victory.
Sudden he paused. Far in the rear,
With power beyond his own,
Gold-bought intrigue had made a fear
About a shaking throne.
No soldier stroke had turned his flank
Or pierced his battle line,
But treachery stood rank on rank
Behind a Right Divine.
His war-thrust failed. In dull recoil
His legions backward drew,
Yielding clean leagues of Russian soil
To foes he overthrew;
Yielding the peace the world had sought
And hope’s imaginings,
Because the souls of men are bought
About the thrones of kings.
Behind the tumult and the shame
The man of purpose strode ;
Tears in his heart for Russia's name,
He marked the shell-scourged road.
The bitter scorn of feeble things
Was his. He knew the day
Had come to smash the scheming kings
And clear an army’s way.
Dry rot behind the fighting-line
That could not mark nor feel
The stirring impulse warm and fine
That edged a thought with steel—
Come revolution, what you will!.
Plain work is here to do ;
The power that turns the war’s red mill
Is truth to see it thrqugh.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET


f
/
%
?s
ry
X
i\
c
X
Wh
c
O
47 -•
€
] SMtefe
1 /w quite* Aa/*/*y~?'' ' A ‘
?
2
They all love Three Caftles
/?: £).ss£.Qfyi£lj
l


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED,
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMOXIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES. containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
AH inquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers ot Soft Lead in the World
I h I eeROOfSOf ADAMAXCost the same as One of iron.
for samples and Booklet, “The 5 deeding on any other
JAM,? nv rv « _
• ” mAdIEKd.
Manufacturers of Steel Paiic
Structural Steel Pio-iron o, , ’ 1 e * s ’ blooms,
’ ,g lron ’Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
LONDON-3 Great Winchester SfreTE runr 7K „•
SYDNEY —2S O street Street
JjEAD OFFlCE— Equitable Building, Collins Street. Melhnurno
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Holman, having smelt around London, re-
ports that conditions are not favorable there
for raising loans to spend on monkey cages,
the purchase of votes, the provision of a com-
fortable job for good old Jack, and similar
things—all necessary to win the war. So
Willie is thinking of trying U.S.A. As a
matter of fact, the U.S.A. tried Willie a few
months ago. A N. S. Wales agent first of
all hunted N’York for money, but couldn’t
get a bite. Then, through a Sydney banker,
some people elsewhere in the U.S.A. —prob-
ably Boston —were interviewed, and they
agreed to supply several millions at about
5 p.c. Most of it would be payable in Lon-
don, but a little of it would be available
in Sydney. It looked as though the deal
would be put through. But in the end
nothing was done, and the people who were
interested at this end said in their bitterness
that if Holman hadn’t wanted an excuse for
going to Europe their chances would have
been a lot better.
The London Bank of Australia: —
(—•Dividends.—,
Pref. Old. Added to Re-
Dec , Profits. 5i p.c. 24 p.c. Reserves, serves.
1906 . . £36,464 £9,456 £9,197 £17,801 £33,908
34 p.c.
1907 . . 34,951 9,456 12,876 12,619 46,527
4 p.c.
1908 .. 34,212 9,456 14,716 10,040 56,567
5 p.c.
1909 .. 42,971 9,456 18,402 15,113 71,680
7 p.c.
1910 .. 63,708 12,035 18,402 33,271 104,9al
1911 .. 70,532 12,035 18,405 40,092 145,043
1912 .. 80,498 12,035 18,414 50.049 195,092
Internal reserves disclosed, £135,000 ;
and £85,000 written off .. 50,000 245,092
6 p.c.
1913 .. 84,111 12,035 22,096 49,980 295,072
7 p.c.
1914 . . 76,394 12,035 31,114 33,245 328,317
1915 . . 72,867 12,035 34,358 26,474 354,791
1916 . . 67,288 12,035 34,364 20,889 375,680
This mostly British-owned bank has its
head-office in London; and Britain hasn t
been shilly-shallying with war taxes as the
Commonwealth has been doing. Hence the
steady decline in profits during the past
three years. Apart from that special out-
going the London has been doing quite as
well as ever. This exhibits the bank’s his-
tory in that respect
Gross Gross
Profits. Taxes. Profits. Taxes.
1913.. £223,002 £12,279 I 1915.. £206,553 £24,599
1914.. 201,062 15,288 | 1916.. 220,390 33,010
"Gross profits'’ is income “after providing
for interest due and accrued on current de-
posits, deducting rebate on bills and making
provision for bad and doubtful debts” ; and
it is probable that the management is put-
ting a bit more than usual in the stocking
nowadays, not knowing how things may go
after the war. At any rate, the London,
having learned a lesson in the big boom, pro-
vided so amply for contingencies during one
subsequent period of uncertainty that in
1912 it found itself able to disclose £135,000
of internal reserves. That may account for
some of the very marked difference between
the disclosed profits in the early and late
years of the table.
But it doesn’t account for all the differ-
.ence. Not many Australian banks have put
on more weight, comparatively speaking,
than the London. In 10 years its deposits
have increased almost 100 p.c. And since
the wai- started it has more than held its
own:—
1913. 1915. 1916.
Notes in circulation.. £8,343 £6,248 £5,873
Bills, etc 971,898 711,268 803,982
Deposits . . . . 5,490,278 5,497,148 5,723,550
Liquid assets . . 2,691,243 2,346,054 2,800,503
Advances . . . . 4,358,778 4,626,631 4,510,882
Premises . . . . 282,870 289,555 290,570
Total liabilities to the public are thus
£6,533,405; and no less than 43 p.c. of the
lot is held liquid. This bank is thus in a
very fair position to increase its advances
business as soon as the clouds clear. More-
over, there are the foundations to carry more
deposits. At present total liabilities amount
to under 61 times the bank’s own funds; and
in normal circumstances that can be
stretched a bit without taking more than a
fair risk.
The balance-sheet no longer bears any
marks of the old trouble. Under the last
re-arrangement the final payment on account
of the old deposits was to be made on July
1 of this year. Actually the final payment,
was made in 1913; and about the same time
£2 10s. was called up on the 49,103 ordinary
shares, making them £lO paid—a call which
didn’t cause any riot among the share;
holders, seeing that they were promised t
p.c. on their money. There is a reserve
liability of £l2 10s. on these shares. The
balance of the capital is in 17,19 d pret.
shares of £lO fully paid = £171,930. There
are some people who are sorry it isn t a lot
more. Away back in 1893 the old depositors
had the choice of taking 10 deposit receipts,
carrying 11 p.c., repayable in equal annual
instalments, or pref. shares; and only a
very few chime eel the shares. The small insect
in the butter was that, though pref. shares
were to be always preferential as to capital,
they were not to have a preference as to
dividend after they had got 7 p.c. for five
years. So to-day they are only preferential
as to principal; but seeing how small the
pref. capital is, they are, from that point of
view, just about as well secured as any
shares possibly could be.
* * * *
Assurance and Thrift Association
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Life and House Purchase Branch.
Expenses
(including Added
4 p.c. to
Jan., Revenue. Claims, Dividends). Funds. Deficit.
1910.. - £135
Mar., Funds.
1911.. £1,593 Nil £1323 £270 135
Preliminary exes;, £2 .. 133
1912.. 5,536 Nil 4467 , 1069 1,202
Preliminary exes., £l4 .. 1,188
1913.. 9,598 £598 5518 3482 4,670
1914.. 11,597 534 6355 4708 9,378
1915.. 11,702 988 5572 5142 14,520
1916.. 12,039 1821 5379 4839 19,359
1917.. 13,021 1031 5756 6234 25,593
Thrift Branch funds absorbed 83 25,676
This interesting little experiment has a sub-
stratum of—well, call it good citizenship, to
avoid using the word philanthropy, which is
liable to be confounded with charity. The
root idea was to introduce house-purchase
insurance to Australia; and it could not
have been in more reputable hands. The
policy-holder under this scheme may make
sure of leaving his widow and children with
a roof over their heads, their own absolute
property, in the event of his death. Immedi-
ately on taking out a policy a man may bor-
row three-fourths of the value of a house;
if the policy has been in force five years he
may, if he has the land, borrow the full
value of the premises. The property is, of
course, mortgaged to the co.. at 54 p.c.; and
in the event of the death of the policy-holder
the beneficiaries take the property plus the
value of the policy in excess of the mortgage.
The policy-holder can pay off the debt; and
then he has an ordinary life policy protect-
ing his family. Apart from the direct ben-
efits, it is a very good thing to get into
touch with people like these who have thrift
as their mission. For instance :
Property transactions, which have always been a
feature of the Association’s business, have been quiet
during the period under review. Lately it has been
practically confined to assisting settlement in the
outer suburbs. Small holdings of one or two acres
each have been sold in a number of cases to thrifty
people for the purpose of home sites and cultivation.
Industrious workers find that when so situated they
can by spare-time labor lighten the cost of living.
The “new unionism” is alleged to have an
idea that all such schemes are a plot of the
capitalist to reduce wages. On the sdme
principle one might just as well object to
any plan for making workmen their own
landlords. Incidentally, though one often
hears about the “working-class offence” of
growing your own cabbage and thus doing
a gardener out of a job, one rarely hears of
the offence involved in the missus doing her
own washing to the disadvantage of a laun-
dry-lady.
The little co. has a paid capital of £17.684
and its assurance funds amount to £25,795.
Practically all this is out in mortgage and
other property loans ; so far as the capital
and assurance funds have not been sufficient
to finance the business, the co. relies on fixed
deposits. £2695. At the end of the first
quinquennium, two years ago, the actuary
reported, as to the life and house-purchase
branch, that “the assurance fund consider-
ably exceeds the gross renewal premiums
received from the commencement, while the
capital has been preserved intact” —good evi-
dence of economical management. During
last year total outgoings (including divi-
dends) apart from claims and payments on
policies were £5756 and revenue exclusive of
renewal premiums was £5249.
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd.:—
Profit. Dividepds. Reserves.
1906 .. £9,925 41 p.c. = £11,389 £4,929
1907 .. 15,965 6 „ „ 17,083 3 811
1908 . . 23,616 8 „ „ 22,777 4 650
Accumulated profits on sales, £ 148,709 153 359
1909 25,183 20 p.c. = 56,944 121 598
Book profit on purchase of Mercantile
Bank Assets Co., £28,782 . . . . 150 380
Other assets written up, £145,205 .. 295 585
Special distribution of assets in 4 p.c.
debentures, £246,559 .. 49 026
1910 .. 26,289 6j p.c. = 18,492 56 823
1911 . 34.910 8J „ „ 24.656 67 077
ig}o ■ ■ 81 „ „ 24,656 BM3O
1913 ■ • 34, 1 17 81 ~ ~ 24,656 90 491
Premiums on new shares, £1032 .. 91’523
1914 . . 24.970 8 p.c. = 24,000 g-Lago
IV ritten off. £ 18,721 .. .. 73 77 1 ’
1915 . . 15,522 5 p.c. = 15,000 ‘ 74’294
1916 .. 19,584 4 4-5 „ „ 14,400 79', 478
The report says that the dividend recom-
mended for the past year it i 6 P-Oj,
be paid less income tax. £14,400. |
capital still stood at £300,000 on t>et. •> .
and there is nothing in the accounts to
explaifwhy 6 pc. iJt £lB,OOO. If the shattj
holders get £14.400 it is equal to only
£4 16s. p.c. Still, there is a very fan-
margin of profit in excess of that; and, more-
over, “the cattle property in which the co.
invested in 1915 has shown satisfactory re-
sults. but the directors thereof having
decided to utilise the available cash id reduc-
ing the purchase money outstanding, ho divi-
dend has yet been received therefrom.
The assets are naturally a very mixed lot,
seeing that this co. was formed to purchase
the remnants from four great bankrupts reali-
sation sales —-those of the City of Melbourne
Bank, the Federal Bank of Australia, the
English and Australian Mortgage Bank and
the Mercantile Bank. Buying when Aus-
tralia wasn’t feeling very well (it never
feels very well for a few years after it has
been on a borrowing jag), the co. later on
felt justified in writing up its assets and dis-
tributing nearly a quarter of a million’s
worth of debentures among shareholders.
Actually, as the following table shows, this
distribution was almost as good as cash.
All that issue has been redeemed and all
the debenture debt now outstanding is a
small amount (44 p.c.) issued for cash two
or three years ago:—
Re- Profit on Profit
deemed Purchase on Pro-
Debentures during of De- perty
Outstanding. Year, bentures. Sales.
Dec., 1906. . £189,579 £72,804 £648 £31,274
„ 1907.. 150,693 38,886 213 16,545
„ 1908.. 89,241 61,452 110 11,519
„ 1909.. Nil 89,241 7 47,435
„ 1910.. 193,953 52,606 1654 1,874
„ 1911.. 151,057 42,896 1838 3,624
„ 1912.. 93,882 57,175 443 12,644
„ 1913.. 92,970 912 49 7,677
s y J
„ 1914.. 37,847 55,123 691
„ 1915.. 38,087 2127
„ 1916.. 38,087 3767
The liabilities, including that £38,087, total
£64.270. This includes £3137 w r hich the
co. is liable for in respect of notes issued
by the long-since bung City of Melbourne.
Federal and Mercantile banks. In the last
three years the co. has had to pay out only
£4 on account of these notes; and the
chances are that very little more will be
claimed. The £300.000 of capital, this
£64.270 of debt and the reserves are repre-
sented by £329,207 of investments acquired
as the remnants above mentioned. £58,976
owing by purchasers, £68,480 of new invest-
ments (including apparently £20,000 put
into the cattle station), and about £l5OO in
cash and sundries. The £329.207 consists
mainly of house and land properties, and,
though sales have been few during the year,
“prices of properties sold have been, in the
aggregate, in excess of book values.” Also
such stocks and shares as the co. holds were,
in the aggregate, worth more on Dec. 31,
according to market quotations, than book
values. It seems highly probable that sales
will go on being infrequent for some years
to come. But the co. is not dependent on
profits from sales: net income from invest-
ments (including a sheep station and a Fiji
sugar estate) has averaged slightly over
£20.000 p.a. for the past four years, though,
partly on account of the increased income
tax. the net income from that source during
the past two years has averaged only about
£14.500.
* * * *
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney) :
Reserves
To (including
Re- Insurance
Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve).
Nov., ’09.. £5029 10 p.c. = £3750 £1279 £8,500
May, 10.. 5377 10 „ „ 3795 1582 10,082
Premiums on new shares 3125 13.207
Nov., ’lO.. 6605 10 p.c. = 4614 1991 15,198
May, 11.. 6306 10 „ „ 5000 1306 16,504
Nov., 11.. 6522 10 „ „ 5000 1522 18 026
Premiums on new shares 3125 21.151
May, ’12.. 6561 10 p.c. = 6054 507 2Y658
Nov., 12.. 7743 10 „ „ 6250 1493 23.151
May, 13.. 7484 10 ~ „ 6250 1234 24!.385
0V '’ 8318 10 ” ” 625 0 2068 26,453
May, 14.. 8776 10 „ „ 6771 2005 28,458
Nov., 14.. 9729 10 ~ „ 7500 2229 30,687
May, 15.. 9239 10 ~ ~ 7500 1739 32 426
w 0V '’ ‘ 8723 10 ~ „ 7500 1223 33 649
xJ ay ’ 10 ” ” 7500 1114 34 763
Nov., ’16.. 7613 10 „ „ 7500 113 34 876
May, ’l7. . 5363 8 „„ 6000 34,239
That is the first time the directors have ever
recommended anything less than 10 p c since
the public was permitted to buy some of the
shares, till then held by Allen Taylor and
his and Hughes’s friend Bob Anderson, now a
sort of civilian Brig.-General. But it was
quite out. of the question to expect that the
figures of the last few years would be con-
tinued during and after the war. We have
made a prodigious effort to maintain the
boom since the trouble started, but have only
managed it in spots. It irf very interesting
to watch those spots, by the way, and not!
who it is hat is spending the money and
who is socking it away. It i s the draper
and milliner and the jeweller and fan?y-
goods shopkeeper who are clawing in the
cash. Hot the timber-merchant or bnckmaker
or ilgricUltural-implement maker. Which
means in plain words; that with the present
borrowings and high earnings we are on just
about the most profitless of all jags. Almost
as fast as the millions are borrowed and
distributed they are gathered up into a com-
paratively few hands. 1 resentlv tie many
will be no better off for haying handled this
war money; but the tew will be. And that
is how war-taxation in earnest will find us—
the feVv required to give up a little of what
they liaVe hung on to; the many obliged to
work to repay what they have squandered.
On buildings in the Sydney metropolitan
area £1,135,393 less was spent last year than
in 1915. The number and cost of new pre-
mises (with additions to old ones) com-
pleted in late years have been:
j U ne, Number. Cost.
1914’ .. • ■ 9928
1915 . . . . 8838 £5,724,018
1916 . . • ■ 7357 5,152,920
1917 . . . . 5916 4,014,527
Besides that striking shrinkage there is the
gradual and enforced shrinkage of borrowing
for railway and other public works; and this
is going to have a more serious effect on
Allen Taylor’s than the collapse of the metro-
politan building boom. Add the dislocation
of the export trade; and it will be concluded
that, whatever the more remote future may
hold, the immediate future isn’t going to
simply reek with money for the bulk-timber
man as the past few years have done. .
Luckily the eo. hasn't got to worry much
about its liabilities. The whole position has
moved this way
Liabilities.
May,’o7. May,’l2. Mav,’l4. May,‘l6. May,’l7.
Capital .. £60,000 £126.000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Debts .. 8,060 18,569 37,386 30,431 34,818
Assets.
Country mills 1,020 18,535 35,590 60,714 63,477
Pyrmont
wharves,
mill, etc. .. 13,600 6,000 6,000 5,250 4,750
Vessels .. 18,269 33,403 31,183 17,006 22,391
Book debts,
etc.. .. 24,662 49,399 62,018 63,270 47,502
Cash, etc. .. 2,488 14,038 24,520 29,126 13,896
Stocks .. 11,562 33,906 41,504 30,328 44,360
That £13,895 of cash, etc., is independent of
the formal insurance and reserve fund,
£28,681 —all of it except £4250 in public
securities and deposits. So the co. is in a
nice snug position. But there will probably
be a period of poorish dividends, because
even though there will be a certain amount
of trade all along, it will cost a good deal of
money to maintain and protect those country
sawmills, tramways, etc., into which the co.
has been putting most of the money it could
lay hold of.
* * * *
“Outis” (from the other side of the earth) :
The good news about the hill of molybdenite
in N. S. Wales encourages me to tell this
story. Many years ago I was asked by a
friend to see what I could do with a hill of
wolfram in Tasmania which had fallen into
his hands for a debt. I saw James and
Albert Vickers, of Vickers, Son and Maxim,
and as a result of the clinical history of the
property I gave them they sent for one of
their experts who had to do with the build-
ing of war vessels. This English naval man
took about five minutes to make up his mind.
“Tut, tut,” he said, “we use so little tungstic
acid as an alloy for hardening steel that if
it cost us £lOO an ounce it would not matter.
Rut a hill of wolfram—re-ahlly, Mr. Vickers,
we would not know what to do with it, do-
you-not-know!” So I wired my friend:
“Wolfram useless here.” He parted with the
lease for a song. Six months later I re-
turned home, and among my first cables was
one from the Vickers Co. asking me to place
the hill of wolfram under offer to them. But
it was too late. Where do you think the
wolfram was being sent? Jo Krupp’s at
Essen. They had found 01* the value of
woltram and its tungsten contents, thanks
mi , Ge X many ’ s Protectionist policy, which
filled the country with youthful industrial
enterprise—and youthful industrial enter-
KemisTry DS ’ am ° ng other things, industrial
* * * *
From the N.S.W. South Coast:—
The Hoskins Coal and Coke Co., operating on the
Mongawilli leases at West Dapto, is putting up a
pot of money to upset scientific calculations that no
coal of value will be found south of
Mount Ivembla. This is where the Bulli-Borehole
or top seam outcrops, and is defined by geologists
(including Professor David and E. F. Pittman) as
basin * mlt ° f the evv castle-Illawarra coal
Ll“5„r”“L (0r “ nde ™ ! “ h > «» CO.I la
Many efforts have been made in a desultory way
to open up one of the lower seams which outcrop
neai Vest Dapto, Calderwood and Albion Park. In
he last quarter of a century .numerous syndicates
IIY heTitat d ’ fl ° ated ’ RChemes Propounded,
reports But . ? Pe t C . U fl lators fed Up with optimistic
tuallv thfnHl u l C ° Plnion Seems to have
fizzlirn? nnt t l! ed blg speculatlon > ad the efforts
i&’Wrtxr Th :
with the main South Coast line and a! “
quence the primitive method


The British Westinghouse Electric and MJg. Co., Ltd.
T ram way Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
fstmoliousf
Manchegier
Head Office for Australia: —
Queensland Building. 84, William Street, Melbourne.
~ Work * : prd _P»rk, __ L _ Cn
'i Mt BORN TO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
n ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,C00
Subscribed Capital . 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,165'66
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State
Write for particulars.
w. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Syd
The damage to electric mine equipment by light-
rung and the consequent repair expenses, delay of
operations, etc., make tfye question of lightning'pro-
tection a matter of serious consideration. Since the
commencement of electric mine service, the General
Electric Company of New York have studied the
J ? ot f ctm e , mine equipments, with the
Jesuit that actual experience proves that G.E Light-
mng Arresters for direct current and alternating
current circuits do protect. Write us for full parti-
culars, quotations, etc. Australian General Electric
Co., Sydney and Melbourne.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
fernc is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department
w*?/ 7 n Met s° POl ! ta £’ Nevvcastle and Hunter River
\\ ater Boaids, Ardiethan Mines, graziers, etc for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
, . ' s . exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
"S? or hoHer water, and is used throughout
wß»ni al 8 r 'Y* el , ■ IS a valu able asset in summer
weather for -drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Win. Adams & Co.,
oydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. Advt.
* * * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected i:
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Compan
in .North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possibl
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
C o. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [f
* * * » ./
Pioneer Wood Pipe has made a name for itself
It has proved to be the finest pressure pipe, a.s wel
as the most efficient conduit for all kinds of fluids,
hot or cold. Pioneer Wood Pipe is the cheapest
satisfactory piping to buy. Send for illustrated cata
-- Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited,
York str eet, Sydney. Contractors to all
S tat( L r Governments. Factories: Lane Cove River.
N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
—Advt.
* * -g.
What more do you want than a building material
that cuts and nails like wood, improves with age
and is fire-proof, ant-proof and weather-proof, costs
less and can be erected quicker? That building
maternal is Asbestolite.” Get instructive Booklet
B. Spriggs Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.— Advt. '^o
* *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Ilassel. registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, latest models
two for sale from Sydney stock—l 4 nominal h.p.
(maximum effective horsepower 49), 16 nominal h.p.
(maximum effective horsepower 56). Just the right
power for sawmilling or mining operations. Arthur
Leplastner & Co., head office, “The Quay,” Sydney
Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Brauf’s
Sample Crushers Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
?°'> Ltd ” 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Jf'Oß IMMEDIATE SALE.
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHER,
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
T HE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobef
Samsonite
Qslatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
the mountain-side with bullock and horse teams (as
\vas done when the industry started 60 or 70 years
■i = o) was adopted. As an item in a centenary-
celebration procession the sight would be interest-
ing and instructive, but as an adjunct to coal-
mining nowadays it was ludicrous and proclaimed
failure.
The Hoskins Co., however, has tackled the project
in a big, sanguine, business-like way, and prospects
aie encouraging. Railway communication has been
established between the works and the main South
toast line, a large dam has been constructed to
ensure an adequate water supply, and 100 coke ovens
ot modern type are being built. Electric power,
generated by utilising the by-products from the coke
ovens, will be used to drive the plant. The pro-
moters are satisfied, after exhaustive tests, that the
coal will make first-grade coke, rich in carbon,
capable of supporting a heavy weight of ore, and
suitable in every way for use in big blast furnaces.
There is a big demand for coke nowadays, and if
the Wongawilli venture proves a success, it is not
unlikely that there will be a few more nests of
ovens erected between Kembla and Jamberoo. As
a matter of fact, speculators and landholders are
peeping through the keyhole at the present time.
Gordon Lyon’s Adelong ('reek (N S \y )
g«ts close up to its big brother, Collins House
Lstates. Both shows have two dredges, those
ot the little chap being, as is proper, the
smaller. J hey had a ding-dong go during
the last six months and ended the race thus :
Adelong Estates. Adelong Creek.
r ——A. a
No. 1 No. 2 No. 1 No2
n , , , Plant - Plant. Plant. Plant.
Percentage^ 8 "full 251,110 294,730 292 ’ 500 269 > 0()0
time worked.. 76.5 75.46 88.4 88
iield, value . . £2964 £9962 £3581 £6757
vi •■. •• 4197 5377 4101 3727
talue c. yd. . . 2.883d. 8.112d. 2.94d. 6.03d.
t ost c. yd. . . 4.012d. 4.379d. 3.36d. 3.32d.
1 he Creek keeps office and petty exes, down
TOAn b0 c llt f 2 50 ’ whereas the big chap allows
±huu tor the same luxuries; so the final
l-oa-n flg / ,res were: Greek, £1862; Estates,
costs per week per dredge are about
±184 for the Estates and £150 for the Creek.
W here the latter will score, if it ever gets a
run of good ground, is that, having a smaller
register of 32,400 shares, only £1620 is
needed for a 3 s. div., against £3750 for the
Estates, with its 75,000 share issue.
* * *
Abermain Colliery (N.S.W.) for the 12
_ s ,u -Gpril 30 made a net profit of
£•»•*. mo, compared with £19,152 for the pre-
vious 12 months. There are 200,000 £1
shares, so the p.c. dividend takes £25,000.
J he directors add £10,000 to reserves, which
with undivided profits total £41,229. The
mine is in the Maitland district and is
capable of a large output of coal. But in
view of keen competition, favorable selling
contracts really determine the prosperity of
a colliery co.
* *
Ihings still look a bit mixed at Butler’s
tin, lorrington (N.S.W.), because wolfram
and galena are speckled amid the ore. Oil
separation snicks out the lead, but the
wolfram left with the tin means penalties
and back talk from the smelter. Still, the
dual product can be sold, and this will be
done till the co. gets a couple of magnetic
separators. Nor is that the worst trouble
ahead, for the cash mopped up in battling
w ltli complex ore problems should have gone
to pay off £2c40 due on the mine. London,
therefore, is to be asked to give the co.
breathing time until 12 months after the war.
As the fatmen there aren’t a hard-up lot, the
concession may be forthcoming. The banker
also is owed £1500. but he has the security
of ore and stores (£1200), as well as £361
due from calls.
Cameron and Sutherland, of Melbourne,
who now own most of the old mines at Hill-
grove (N.S.W.). are developing hvdro-elec-
tric power from the Styx River. It drives
an air-compressor, and is said to bfe more
economical than steam with wood fuel. There
are millions of h.p. yet to be harnessed up in
the nor'-east of N. S. Wales: within easy
distance of Grafton alone there is enough
power to support a big manufacturing town.
From Westonia :—
At the Edna May Battler meeting there was some
Criticism of the co. s financial position and its general
performances; nevertheless, the reports were adopted
and the retiring directors re-elected. So shareholders
may expect the same sort of reports at next meeting.
Directors do not seem anxious to tell the shareholders
the exact position. The co. owes nearly £1000,
and further operations can only result in increasing
the debt. The mine contains a vein of quartz from
12in. to 15in. wide, from which it is impossible to
keep the treatment plant running continuously. The
Battler might be suitable for a capable party to
work, carting their ore to a public treatment plant;
but as a subject for a mining co. it is impossi-
ble. Of course, another ore body may be located on
the property, but that is not likely. The 5000 tons
of probable ore the directors refer to will not pay
current expenditure.
The Westonia market is supported bv the “wonder-
ful results’’ anticipated from the driving of the
bottom level crosscuts in Deeps and Central. As, up
to the present, deep developments at Westonia have
brought disaster to stock-holders, the present opti-
mism with regard to Deeps and Centrals is hard to
understand. Deeps is keeping a borehole well ahead
of the face of the crosscut, and if this strikes
quartz good values will certainly be heard of. But,
as for tangible results, Deeps will be fortunate if
ever the co. makes enough profits to pay off its
£lO,OOO debenture blister. Central at 321 ft. level
crosscut is as liable to strike heavy water as the
lode; in any event, the lode there is not likely to
be any better than at the 221 ft., which provided only
2s. in dividends.
High working costs and the problem of coping with
the heavy water below 300 ft. continue to cause Edna
-May shareholders much anxiety. There is consider-
able high-grade ore below that level, but there are
many troubles with it.
Brown Hill Extended (W.A.), which once
made a fortune out of a section of the Oroya-
Brown Hill shoot, and got rid of most of it
m working exes, and speculation, closed the
last financial year with a loss of £lO2. Tribu-
tors turn up their noses at the co.’s worked-
out leases, and in view of Westralian labor
conditions the Board has thrown up the old
leases of 30 acres and repegged IS acres so
as to protect the machinery and plant, which
in these days could hardly be sold for old
iron.
* * * *
F. A. Govett was, to use his own words,
an unhealthy pessimist at the Ivanhoe meet-
ing. Discussing the deadly influence of the
porphyry bar on the east lode at depth lie
said that hitherto, after passing 2720 ft..
there had been no encouragement to drive
along the lode inside the porphyry, for in the
porphyry, which seemed to be fatal to the
precipitation of gold, there were never any
payable values. However, before the search
could be abandoned as hopeless they had to
drive along the lode at some deep level. In-
structions had been given to do this at
3020 ft. and on the results he thought justifi-
cation for the further sinking of the shaft
depended. This, however, was not the view
of Mr. Collier, who had just joined the
Board, nor of Mr. Agnew, formerly general-
manager for 8., M. and Co. in the West and
now associated with H. C. Hoover in London.
Both considered that a big lode like that in
the Ivanhoe could not be abandoned in spite
of past and present discouragements. Any-
way, there was no hurry, for there were
plenty of reserves to go on with; and the
matter could be fully gone into when the
information from the drive was before them.
* * * *
“Oof Bird" gives the history of ore roast-
ing at Ivalgoorlie:—
Jack Sutherland, now manager of the Golden
Horseshoe, but then metallurgist of the Lake View,
erected the first furnace on the latter mine in 1897.
It was after the style of the old hand-rabbled reverb,
of t ictoria ; and as it was necessary to dry-crush the
ore before roasting, a ball mill was borrowed from
the adjoining Associated and the stuff was put
through an 1-mesh screen. Results proving satis-
factory, it was decided in the following year to instal
a Brown straight-line roaster, and in 1899 two of
them started work. Boulder Main Reef followed with
a shaft furnace similar to one then in use on Mt.
Moigan (Q.), and while these two cos. were com-
peting to get the best results, the Associated and Ival-
gurli were erecting Ropp furnaces, the Boulder-
Perseverance Iloltoff-Wethey, and the South Ivalgurli
Brown straight-line. Great Boulder pinned its faith
to a gas-fired, vertical-column furnace, somewhat
similar to the Stetefeldt make, introduced by a
pushful lank named Konenntn. This furnace was
designed to roast the ore in particles as large as
nuts and do away with the fine grinding which was
necessary with all other plants. It, however, proved
a failure, and first an Edwards simplex, then Mer-
tons, and afterwards an Edwards duplex were put in
by the Boulder Co. The Kalgurli was the first to
admit that it had got hold of the wrong sort of
roaster. Now, with the exception of one furnace,
which is practically a combination of both, only
Edwardses and Mertons are in operation on the field.
I p to June 28 Bendigo Amalgamated
treated 14,220 tons from the mines it took
over, and got 32640 z. gold, exclusive of
mineral. The best yield came from Koch’s
Pioneer, where things got a lift through a
tributor’s patch giving 4730 z. from 46 tons.
Dyason is putting compressors into central
stations at the Moon, Johnson’s No. 2. Great
Extended Hercules. Virginia, Koch’s and
Catherine shafts. There he will instal pro-
ducer-gas plants and generators, and next
will concentrate crushing at six out of the
II mills belonging to the co. Development
and prospecting will for the present be con-
fined to 15 or 17 shafts. The programme
covers the old Garden Gully territory'; and
big things are in train oil the Unity and
Carlisle shafts. The Pyke shaft is to be
shut down because the Constellation gives
the better field for tapping more central
reefs. . Derby, Sheepshead, Hustler’s and
Lightning Hill lines also are to be worried.
Dyason is revelling in his new role of min-
ing-engineer, instead of that of company-
promoter and director.
Queensland Government is taking
, to Promote a local iron and steel in-
, " * v j has three accessible iron-
stone deposits—lron Island, off Broadsound ;
Mt. Lucy, which supplied Chillagoe with flux
“, ye , a . rs . ; . and Biggenden, in the Marybor-
ough district. Large quantities of ore are
nnollf f!, 6 i n th . e Ghillagoe district, but not
° l ne . < ? the deposits or lodes has been proved at
i eptn, and in some instances the deposits are
undoubtedly shallow. Development to make
sure of a continuous supply of ore has
hitheito .been retarded by the uncertainty
with regard to coke; for although Queens-
land has coal in abundance, it has onlv
recently commenced to work modern ovens.
Liven reasonable labor conditions both iron-
str? a ?d limestone can profitablv be
carried hundreds of miles to the furnace
providing there is a good and cheap supply
of coke at the end of the journey. The
export of ironstone from Sweden to Germany
and from Spain to Britain are familiar
examples.
St. Mungo, Cloncurry (Q.), J s coming to
lift again, and there is a better demand for
-i A hnige ore is being worked
w No - 4 level - and this make of
If been proved to extend beyond the
of the drive overhead. It is mainly
nni l a; tO -i th T bul £ es that St - Mun ?° has
40 tnn« Output is about
L m f ofhjgh-grade ore per month, which
is sold to the Hampden.
* * *
At 4504 ft the S. Aus. Oil Wells Co.
stopped its first drill; and now it is about
to try in another place. “The main fact for
consideration,” says Charlton Dod, the drill-
ing superintendent, “is that we have actu-
f y i°” n<i sonie free oh in tlie rocks of the
ftouth Last. It now remains to find the con-
centrations, or oil pools.” lie regards these
things as proven :
the (a r )o cks a p a sse t d°uZ,g < h , by ourTorVSll^S^tiJo
out thi bLe "hale 4 ; 442 Stl ' 6aks thro^h '
(b) That inflammable natural gas is found for a
considerable depth through the shale •
(c) That the series of sands and rocks encountered
aie similar to those found in many proven oilfields
elsewhere in the world ;
That nothing unfavorable to the formation of
petroleum has been struck; hence, what was pre-
DrobabilUr— A may now be considered a
? 1 l - e -> that oil exists in payable quantity
m the south-east of South Aus. ;
rin (e } of ttle utmost importance to this
country that the search for oil be continued vigor-
ously Our co. has now a good plant and experience
in this region, so future bores can be sunk much
more quickly and at less cost.
Ihe failure of the Xo. 1 bore is, of course
not conclusive one way or the other. There are
plenty of places even on rich oilfields where
bores have drawn a blank. The opinion of
Keith Ward, Government Geologist of S.
Aus., is that there is no payable oil in the
distinct. The co.’s officers brush that aside
with the remark that Ward has no special
knowledge Dr. Wade, whom the Govern-
ment called in, has special knowledge, how-
ever ; and he was just as pessimistic. In
that case the only reply was, in effect, that
he scamped his work. All this would sound
much more convincing if the co.’s drill had
xi l A U cLr a pusher. I’. and L. account shows
±10,b30 spent on Xo. 1 well (including
plant) and £1498 on camp, water well, etc.
find there is £1965 in the bank and £9750
on 180,000 contributing
* * *
Paracale and Philippine Dredging is be-
coming more profitable. In June four
diedges scooped up 16390 z. gold, following a
yield of 14400 z. from three dredges in May.
Four hundred ounces per dredge per month
will bring the long-expected dividend near.
In June the best yield was from Xo. 3
dredge (Paracale), which obtained 8450 z.
from •)s.uooyds. Xo. 2 (Philippine) also
did well—sSooz. from 54,300vd5. But Xo
1, producing only 940 z. from 27,500vd5.. and
Xo. 4, producing 120 oz. from 29.000yd5..
give a hint of patchy ground.
* * * *
“C.F.E.”: Said that the Bendigo Mine
Managers’ Association is afraid that, if the
miners receive a rise in wages, they will be
getting more than their bosses. I once over-
heard. in the Beehive, old Muller express his
admiration for the late Mathews, who was
then paying dividends from the Ulster United
(the old boy was practically the Ulster).
A coarse, burly bloke heard him, too. and
?P at ° u * : “ ’Ellofalot you think of ’im !
Y hes only gettin’ five bob a day more’n
the shift boss! It is a solemn fact that
loi years past the Bendigo mine manager
has got less pay than a Queensland navvy.
**. * *
stai 't has been made here in
U.B.A. to construct ball-bearings of jasper,
which is one of the hardest stones known'
It is not only hard; it is also tough—unlike
the diamond, which is brittle and liable to
break if dropped on a hard surface. Rating
u diamond at 10 in hardness, jasper is <
stee 6 and glass 51. Jasper will thus cut
m. and i V‘, ' b , o:n ' in S s of jasper, being
laidei, should last longer. Prospectors
ought to get busy and try to locate the stone,
which usually occurs in the shape of boul-
ders. Ihe nearest lapidary should be able
t(* identify it when lie sees it.
►States™ an Au ‘ stl ' illian mining man in the
Jhe big and rich Anaconda copper mine in Mon-
tana is fighting a fire bigger than anything Broken
Hill ever had. it started on March 5 and the area
has had to be closed hermetically, perhaps for ever.
Huge concrete bulkheads have been constructed from
the surface to the 2200 ft. level to shut off air.
rhe trouble is in one of the richest sections, from
which every clay 4000 tons of 5 p.c. copper ore were
being mined. The part of the ore body affected has
a length of 600 ft. by 2200 ft. deep.


FOR BAD COUGH USE TAR SYRUP.
HOW TO MAKE IT.
C oughs, colds, catarrh and bronchial
troubles all yield quickly to the concentrated
healing properties of pine forests as found
in ordinary bitrate of tar. The most effec-
tive way in which to use it is to add two
ounces to a syrup made by dissolving half
a pound of sugar in half a pint of hot water.
Stir thoroughly, and pour into a pint bottle.
ne or two teaspoonfuls of this tar syrup
will quickly stop tickling coughs, and taken
regularly two or three times a day will afford
relief to the most stubborn cough, cold or
i^ e , o£ catarrh. It is also of great value in
n,.?^ ea r ment 0f thr °at and bronchial trouble
P " g , ro ?} exposure to the damp and cold,
stenti °"i d nsed t 0 get the bitrate in-
ho ° the j j° r , ms of tar » which are not to
he recommended for tins purpose.— Advt.
Heelings
Est 1818.
Co.
cr?
en
i'HFERING®
flmWSuiw
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Hah
are the G)/r ec&
Qxptessiori y°
GgdcL C Jas/&
PAULINE et CIE
Denison House Chambers,
George Street, SYDNEY,
Announce their
Half-yearly Half-guinea Sale.
(rossard
CORsSETs.S
They Luce In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
Dexter
than Either”
Only Genuine Worcester rut -
rcT 7 1. Made ,n Australia
get a bottle.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, July 9, 1917.
Aly Dear Arini, —
The Anzac Buffet has had a busy time
this week: two shiploads of returned khaki
boys have come in via Woolloomooloo and
three by rail. Every Billjim had a tassel of
wattle in his hat as the Red Cross cars
swung out from wharf or station —most of
them for the Buffet, a few direct for nand-
wick or Broughton Hall. Other shiploads
are already sighted. Among these latter
homers is Colonel Warren, who went away
with an Artillery brigade, but has of late
months been medical-officer at Cobham Hall,
lent by Lord Darnley—Australia’s old friend
Ivo Bligh—as a convalescent home for Aus-
tralian officers.
Veteran Sam McCaughey, who has just
provided the money to buy £lOO,OOO of in-
surance for 500 married volunteers, has two
sisters living in a far-off North of Ireland
town. They could an they would live in
some splendor in the eyes* of their poorer
neighbors. But an Australian who once
happened across the pair says they still
practise the rigid economy of their youth,
in spite of brother Sam's generous allow-
ance. They eat jam on the day they save
the butter, and scratch jam off the menu
on the day they open the butter pat. But
they’re a happy pair of Thrifters and won’t
feei the war rationing—if there’s any in
Ireland.
The Sentimental Bloke (C. J. Dennis) is
here moneymooning—finishing a Christmas
book, "Doreen,” which appears in Septem-
ber. That done—he takes infinite pains
with his stuff—he will have his honeymoon
up Cairns way. The new Airs. Dennis comes
from Tasmania, though she has lived in
Victoria for some years. The man who sells
his stuff by the 50,000 (the Bloke in its two
years’ run has beaten Kipling’s record as a
seller) is too modest to put his success down
to any but “luck in striking the right vein.”
When they have finished their ’mooning the
Dennises will go to Toolangi, in Victoria.
There, 11 miles from a railway station, tne
Sentimental Bloke has three acres bitten out
of the Big Timber ; and when he isn’t string-
ing rhymes about Doreen—who is not one
girl, but the best that’s in a hundred —he is
“pottering about.” Tart of the time, by the
way, that is very literally right; for “Den”
likes to amuse himself now and then with
a lump of clay and a model.
The James Graham dame, who lost her
only son, a surgeon with the A.1.F., in
France this year, is working now at a sol-
diers’ canteen in a big military camp in the
Cold Country—somewhere near Grantham,
in Lincolnshire. Arthur Docker and his
wife, once of Sydney, run the Grantham can-
teen; and niece Winifred, eldest daughter of
the Judge, was helping them till lately. Airs.
Arthur, you remember, is a sister of Carr
Smith, the parson who used to wear
chasubles and things at St. James’s, in King-
street, years ago.
Young Dick Robertson, of Waverley,
returned from the wars, was lately married
to Edith Farnsworth. Back in the ’so’s the
grandfather, and, later, the father and uncle
of Robertson were cattle-kings on the Clar-
ence River, and Bunalbo was the head
station. A fine family, Scotch ye ken, wi’ a
hooseful o’ bonnie daughters and twa braw
sons, Willie and Dick. AVillie Robertson,
father of our young friend mentioned above,
died at Waverley a few years ago.
Captain Wallis, who was here on Governor
Strickland’s staff, is back in France. The
sporting young Irishman is one of the
veterans of the war. His own regiment, the
AVorcesters, was amongst the first to rush
to Belgium’s aid, but AA’allis was unable to
reach them. So he left Australia with the
Anzacs, and hung on to Gallipoli till he was
badly wounded. His damages were so severe
that he was invalided to London, where he
spent some weary months on his back. It’s
good news to hear that he’s up and at ’em
again.
Sydney’s music-loving fanatics huddled
on the footpath waiting for early gallery
doors to open for “Alignon.” The Gonsa-
lez people take a ’busman’s holiday to see
the other fellow get the applause. So Cap-
pelli was in a box with his lady—baby Tino
Melbourne stayed at home for his evensong
—and Minister James was in the next pen.
Balboni, the beauty man of the aviary, was
finer than any peacock in a gorgeous yellow
coat and purple breeches. He was the Gug-
lielme of the cast. Visoni (Mignon) is
faithful to the wardrobe of yesteryear, anti
sings sweetly in a hideous dressing-gown <u
There’s to be a revival on July 13 of the
coffee stall which did such a roaring trade
in Martin Place on Triangle Day. As
before, Hilda Caro will be chief cook.
News comes from London of the marriage
of Mrs. Adele Edols. widow of the late
Edward, of Burrawang. to Dr. Baron Brooke.
The bride is one of the three sisters of Jack
and Ted Halloran, crack amateur riders. led
gave up his mounts at picnic races to go to
the Front with the Light Horse, in December,
1914. Dr. Brooke practised at Darling 1 oint.
Sydney, for a few years before he, too. joui-
neyed towards the war zone.
Some of the darlings motored to the
“Pom” and Toy Dog exhibition at the Agn-
cultural grounds on Saturday. The others
went by Government car, and a chilly notice
that the dog-tram would leave at 5.45 p.m.
sharp hurried the silken-haired peers into
warm coats to catch their special. The show
took up two sides of the vehicles’ shed just
inside the grounds. Here on silk and velvet
cushions lounged dukes and dqchesses. Mrs.
Nisbet's Pekinese won a hat-full of prizes,
and Mr. Corrie (Vic.) collected similar
encouragement for his black pugs snub-
nosed little animals with dewy black eyes
that looked as if they would burst into tears
any moment. .Mrs. Shaw’s Pomeranian lady
and the various beasties of Airs. Griffon. Mrs.
Kitchen, Airs. Brooks and Aliss Skene got
away with a few yards of purple silk.
A. D. Clifford packed up his kit for Gov-
ernment House, Melbourne, and left Sydney
in the dawn of this week.
Two scores for Cupid. Dorothy Alay,
daughter of Surgeon T. 11. May, of Bunda-
berg (Q-). has promised to become Airs.
Ralph Willson Dean, of Toowong, Bris-
bane, when she finishes her massage course
at our Uni. The second hit was Valerie
Elderton, the tall second daughter of 11. C.
Elderton, of Alosman, who is on her way
north to take over, for keeps, Cosmo Murray,
who owns the job of Government Analyst
at Alareeba, in the dairy country behind
Cairns.
Varsity Undergrads gave an exhilarating
show for France in the Town Hall. Not
a drill moment for any one, and tense ex-
citement for the Engineers. The Cullens
with General Finn came in early. F. AA’hit-
low, in khaki, made his last appearance as
entertainer before leaving for the Front.
Archie Ranclaud—he of the exquisite coiffure
and aesthetic socks —was accompanist. Ella
Caspers. Ilorrie Ward. Brenda Deloitte and
Leah Alyers were in the programme.
Very few Austral-
ia u g iris have
crossed the Black
Sea and travelled up
the Dneiper to sum-
mer on the estate of
a Russian nobleman
—an estate larger
than a province, and
carrying over 2000
peasants. Yet this
adventure fell to the
lot of the Queens-
land pianist Wini-
fred Burston, now
delighting Sydney
audiences with her
crisp touch. Falz-
fein—it has a Teu-
tonic flavor —was the
name of the musical
epicure who engaged leading performers
from Berlin every summer to fill his old
castle with glad noises. Even before the
war the rumble of the coming revolution
called for drowning.
“I was engaged, with an English singer,
to speed the summer hours for a couple of
months,” says Winifred. “Generally we
entertained Baron Falzfein and his guests
for an hour or two in the afternoon and
again in the evening. I travelled from Ber-
lin via Lemberg, and spent a daj 7 there
amidst its wonderful forts and quaint
people. Crossed the Black Sea, then up the
Dneiper to Falzfeinovo—the vast tract of
country where our host was just then sov-
ereign lord. Arrived at midnight, and drove
for miles through the dark forest, our only
light the blaze of a torch held aloft by a
courier on a white horse. Musicians who
are so lucky as to get a summer engage-
ment of this kind in Russia have a very good
time. Our apartments were in a magnifi-
cent annexe which included a splendid music-
room, a fine ballroom and every luxury this
exotic people regard as part of their dailv
life.”
But the Australian girl, whose picture was
snapped by Judith Fletcher, talks more
eagerly of the musical mill that preceded
this gorgeous episode. There were three
strenuous years in Berlin Conservatorium
working for a diploma under Theodor Bohl-
mann. Armed with this, young Australia
set out for Cincinnati Consei \ atornu
(U.S.) to teach. “Cincinnati being full of
Germans, they have built there one of the
biggest centres of music in America, su.v.
Winifred in parentheses. “Busoni urged me
to return to Berlin and continue my studies.
While he was there he was, as it were, my
extra music-master, taking nothing ior lus
priceless lessons. After that two years came
the Russian trip. Then I made my debut
in London. Back to Berlin, then home to
Queensland. And now —Sydney. ’
The Flying Corps Fund gets the profits
from Grace Stafford’s students’ show in St.
James’s Hall. The display of youthful
hair-bows was mingled with adult talent. A
little comedy, “My Lady Fortune, wedged
into the entertainment, had an unusual end-
ing The love-stricken Lord Ambleby ( J.
McCahon). being jilted by the girl of his
heart, mildly remarked that he’d 'Go to
Persia.” He was in the Diplomatic Sei-
vice, you see.
Which recalls a London gag to hand by
last troopship. “Well, what do you think
of this Mesopotamia?” “Oh, pretty bad.
But not worse than the Mess-up-at-’ome-ia.”
Here is the photo
(by Falk) of one of
the b e s t Mrs.
George Sargent. The
finery visible was
part of the glittering
Maid - of - II o n o r
drapery worn at a
pageant on Allies
Day. But it’s not in
pageants that this
big-hearted woman
plays her star part.
I don’t want to sool
orphans on to clutch
her benevolent skirts
by mentioning her
hobby for befriend-
ing the friendless.
But much of the
good Mrs. Sargent
does by stealth laughs its thanks in rosy
dimpled cheeks. One “adopted” mite, more
daring than the rest, even begged to go to
England with her fairy godmother. And that
beneficent dame said, “Well, why not?”
And—there you are! Since the war Mrs.
George has been a champion worker for the
Bed Cross and War Chest.
France’s Day is working up to a fine
frenzy. Already anyone who puts down his
hat or his specs., or even last year's bills, is
liable to have them snatched up and auc-
tioned—as Joe Cook discovered last week at
the Liberal Conference. (“National” now,
my dear.) The old chapeau brought in £3O.
Mi •s. Tom Watson is painting Australian
wild flowers on cards for the Red Cross
committee stall on Friday. Real wattle
pressed, with suitable language for our men
at the Front, will be another feature.
About £23 will fall into the French cap
from the musical afternoon in the Leonard
Doddses’ big white house at Darling Point.
The goldie locks of Wynifred Carter hung
over the harp that once (not long ago) was
built in U.S.A. It’s a lovely instrument
and worth the £lBO the harpist paid for it.
Jessica Cummins good-naturedly sang
through a severe cold, and Rosa Alba chirped
(by request) “Sing Sweet Bird,” whereat
the big clock started to chime with all its
might. Myrtle Meggy, at the piano, gave
the company some exquisite melody. Roland
Foster was in charge of the programme.
A David Low caricature of Les Darcy
(“Wearing his Championship Smile”) will
be auctioned by Mr. Sydney James and Little
Billy at Mrs. William Macleod’s stall near
the Daily Telegraph office at one o’clock
on France’s Friday. Original drawings by
“Hop,” Lindsay, Minns, Souter and Vincent
will also be offered for sale by the popular
actor and his ventriloquising offspring.
Have a look at Stott and Hoare’s window,
S 6 Pitt-street, on France’s Day. There’s a
doll (dressed by Amy Macleod) to be raffled.
It’s a beauty ! And the same firm is giving
a Remington for the Cause.
On July 13, the only date this hamlet is
excited about at present, Maxim’s will burst
forth in Macquarie-place, where the wool
waggons go. Fish and prawn supper, a
huge floor to dance on, and Mrs. Maclurcan
in charge. Vaudeville while you wait.
The French dwellers of cosmopolitan Alos-
man are turning the local Town Hall
grounds into a market square for Juillet 13,
and will sell all the ingredients for the
family dinner, from soup to nuts, as well
as frocks and etceteras. Parcels will be
delivered free,, so there’ll be no need to
bring along the old string bag.
The Hotel Australia stall on the day is to
be in charge of Mrs. C. E. Waters- and
here, between twelve and one. Dorothy
Brunton will auction whatever comes to her
hand.
Popular Cissie Jamieson, a sister of the
well-known Dr. Sydney, tripped on board
the last American boat, surrounded with a
tangible aura of regrets and good wishes
fronr the friends she left behind her. The
Taits’ bon voyage took the form of a gold
manicure set-yes, 18-carat. The lady with
the golden-red top has been doing secretarial
work for them for the past 3(> months.
Caff* chantant enthusiasts are requested
to rush for early doors, as the affair m the
Australia winter-garden on July 13 is go
ing to be a squash at 10b. 6d. per head. Time
8.30 p.m. to 11. Vive Joftre!
The 13th and 45th Battalion committee is
going to help rob Sydney to pay France
on Friday. Its stand will be at the corner
of King and George streets, and Mrs. Bon-
thorne, Mrs. Louis Henderson and Miss Bud
Neill will be the principal Ned Kellys. A
French flag with important autographs on
its silken folds is to be auctioned here at
1 P-m. . ,
Tassy gets a gilded plum this time, tor
the Newdigate-Newdegate is the wealthiest
Governor the Apple Isle has seen for
many a year. The lady of the house and
two daughters are likely to join the Hobart
establishment in a month or so. Incident-
ally, a misread comma may do a lot ot mis-
chief. Last week, in a Bulletin “Per-
sonal” paragraph, Newdy-Newdegate was
given two wives—not together, of course.
The first wife mentioned was actually the
first wife of the colonel whom this Newdy-
Newdegate used to call dad.
There’s a loan exhibition of War Trophies
in the Education Palace, Loftus-street, this
week. It’s to help the Bed Cross section of
France’s Day.
Mrs. Trefle, with Josephine Marks and
other lady brigands, will have a Napoleonic
stall as part of the raid on July 13.
The butterflies still flutter round the places
where wings may be scorched. Here’s a
March-hare letter from an Australian in
Monte Carlo
I wish you had been with us at Beaulieu—a
flowery little place between Monte and Nice. Oh,
my dear, the roulette! I’ve played lots of times,
lost my dress money and won it back. It’s so fas-
cinating and you see all the interesting people of the
world—princesses, cocottes, respectable shopkeepers
with their eyes goggling, starchy English ladies,
singers and actresses. Almost every day I see La
Belle Otero (the famous French beauty) and old friend
Calvii.
When the widow of Pat Hill Throsby died
in June, Moss Yale lost an old identity.
Throsby Park was once the temporary resi-
dence of Governor Belmore —he who threw
a shilling to a party of road-men that had dug
his travelling carriage out of the mud. (P.S.
—They returned the poor man his silver.)
In Bong Bong cemetery lie many Throsbys,
Hills and Broughtons. Dr. Hill, an old-
time Government medico, married one of the
Throsby clan. Betsy Broughton, a mother
of dead-and-gone Throsbys, was daughter of
the commissary who when two years old was
rescued by Alex. Berry from the Maoris —at
the time of the massacre of passengers and
crew of the Boyd at the Bay of Islands in
1809.
There’s to be a kiddies’ matinee ball,
plain and fancy, at. Paddington Town Hall
on July 21. The special prize is for the
best representative of France, and the pro-
ceeds go to the same gallant ally.
This week brings the first of the season’s
art shows. Step this way to the R.A.
Society’s rooms, 76 Pitt-street, to see the
students’ efforts.
Mrs. Lund, hon. sec. of the Capetown
Anzac Committee, writes that, if relatives
would like particulars of any Australian or
Mainland soldier’s grave in the local mili-
tary cemetery, she will gladly send them.
On Anzac Day the women of this Capetown
committee laid wreaths on the graves, and
are keeping them tidied up. A memorial
service was also held that day in the local
St. George’s Cathedral. Later some wounded
and convalescent Billjims were motored out
and fed and petted. Major Pilcher said the
appropriate thank-yous for M.L. and Lieut.
Beveridge for the Ivangaraoo. Headquarters :
Afralia, Flower-street Gardens, Capetown.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
LTD
JEWELLERS
TOILET REQUISITES
IN SOLID SILVER.
Silver-mounted Powder
Sprinkler,
£1 2 0
THE NEW “BOW AND CIRCLE” DESIGN.
fTTTT
TTTPIT
Silver Cloth Brush,
£l2 0
Silver
Hair Brush, best quality bristles,
£2 5 0
Silver-mounted Puff
Jar,
£1 14 0
MIRROR, COMB, BUTTON-HOOK AND SHOE-LIFT
CAN BE SUPPLIED IN THE SAME DESIGN.
fIAE PER CENT. DISCOUNT ON ALL CASH PURCHASES.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
The FOLDING FILMA
is a Dependable Gamera.
lt's BRITISH-MADE.
'o'*:
i:
•j; tty ..-.foldinc f:•
7 Vt;
"
■
;!i :
a? 3
Nfcij
PM
The compact Folding Filina is a grand camera for the
amateur —it is a nice handy shape to carry, is strongly made,
handsomely finished, and can always be depended upon to give
the best possible results from each exposure.
The body is of Mahogany, covered Leatherette, the Rising- and
Palling Lens Front is of solid metal, Reversible View Finder,
Single Achromatic Lens, and Standard Shutter giving Time,
Bulb and Instantaneous Exposures.
For Roll Films—Daylight Loading.
Takes i-plate films (31 x 4-J in.).
Price £2/12/0.
Films to fit above, 1/6 per spool of six
exposures.
Call and let us show you this fine camera. If
you live out of town send for our illustrated
catalogue and handbook of photography—
free to any address.
PICTURE-THEATRE MEN-
Send for our Cinematographic Catalogue
and Operator’s Guide -post free anywhere.
Send Your Residues and Assays
= to HARRINGTONS. =
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal Workers can depend
on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 57-59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
II?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St, # 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories <& Laboratories, 57-59 George St, North, Sydney,
I went to buy
a Gramophone
I found something' infinitely
greater the VOCALION!
111
::
sirs:?
Lx,
BEFORE I purchased I looked
at many types of disc playing
instruments. Fine though
some of them were, the differ-
ences seemed trifling. All looked
alike. One may have given a little
better results in instrumental music,
and another with the human voice.
And then my quest led me to the
AEW I X STRI MEX T, the Aeolian-
Yocalion, and all others faded from
mind.
In the Vocation T heard music
I never dreamed a Phonograph
could produce. Sweet, full rich-
ness of tone yibrant with the
very quality of life, delicate
tonal tints marked the differ-
ence of instrument and instru-
ment. Here was the model to
satisfy my desires, its appeal
was irresistible. I was charmed
with the "GRADUOLA” ex-
pression device; by gentle pres-
sure the music seemed to melt
to my touch, swelling forth to
a full flood of melody at will;
what joy at expressing my own
feeling, and then at the end
of the selection all was silent;
it had automatically stopped.
The Aeolian-Vocalion
THE GREATEST OF ALL DISC PLAYING IN-
STRUMENTS WAS THE ONE OF MY CHOICE.
Call and hear It, or write for Catalog showing models and easy terms
Sole Manufacturers :
Pianola Company
Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney.
252 Collins Street, Helbourne,
436 Queen Street, Brisbane,
88 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Send Us this Coupon
and we will mail an interesting descriptive Catalog, showing
the easy terms of payment that will place b Vocation in your
Home without delay.
Please send me Catalog It, describing the Vocation, as adver-
tised in Bulletin.
Na?ne
Address


BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
I
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
*
THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
/ /
/
A QUALITY COAT
PAWN GABARDINE
RAIN COAT, all-wool
material; lined
wool check; but-
toned to throat or
step collar; straps on
cuffs; inverted pockets,
with flap; generous
skirt, with vent to
button.
Usual Price . . 70/-
SALE PRICE 67/6
Less the 10 per cent.
Bonus.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE,
o,
'ffia'f
£ Sfiore areDoras' \
■. >aV inland DM>Gducric®S'
Metis Departments 0
on Hats Suits: hoots®
Merceru, on JraSeuiya
(amfdnsandnecessities) n
SMOKING REQUISITES ETC.
a/ t/iq
Gsli Bonus' Sale 0
\ ;m b T ai^-
JTour? of
0¥
Id
S Y D M E >T
□odo 1
A Simple
HOME
HAIR Treatment FREE!
50 000 SAMPLE B °™Sf , M “ , . Ul Hail Nation, also
l actical Massage Lessons to be given Free to our
SL
y
HEwnc
fWiPoo po^n,
-S
(•■ i'-n
_MAJ
■nc*»
Jt;
m.
■
cSL'ST £lt,
SrSf Sf.aT',«e 6 T*
tin'™ f?n k ' di * c ?l°red. brittle, greasy, split-
„„ f r falling hair rob a man or woman of
foro ih e « ® emblance of youth. Those, there-
„ow’ am ? n 8' the many thousands just
ouantitv «y I ba ? r i deteriorating in quality or
of this sneeini 1 «w immecUately take advantage
o' ~ , 1 ofter announced to-day.
ful S 4 een - for yourself the wonder-
ohfiin r ?t? nic Hair Massage, you can
storekeeper at 3s ° m yOUr chemist or
merVt^bKUimi ''reparations of exceptional
o/ (•, ’ u i e Shampoo Powders. 3d. each or
“is Tnnth n V Face Cream 35.. Pace Powder
Is" Si.i. asl e ls " Medicinal and Toilet Soap
or the s v 1 f f an i l °l th< ‘ above sent for 3d.
and nnrPin^ 1 f r r fe d T - to cover cost of postage
are not e l c i‘ Cretonic preparations
and ordei- ,V;' ni VH e loca "y. refuse substitutes
■>nu older direct from the proprietors:—
rHE CRETONIC CHEMICAL CO.,
t ountry Press Chambers,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
-ood aii’T! or der« sent Post Free. We make
*.oou all losses or breakages. [J
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne. July 9, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie. —
The chief excitement amongst the Toorak-
ese is Lady Stanley's new daughter. l me
Toorak and Malvern that “calls on Stat
Government House is preparing an ava an< m
of presentation bootees and bonnets. it
there is scarcely a nipper in Victoria who
needs gift-clothes less.
The vice-regal park lands rang with ex-
cited shrieks last Saturday, when nuxei
hockey teams (one of them captained by
cheerful Doris Blackwood) dashed about
smiting at a flying ball. AH
Genthelps were called on to risk their shins
for the occasion.
The beautiful widow Praagst, daughter of
Mrs. Howard Willoughby, is immensely
proud of her son Howard. Howard was
named after grandpapa Willoughby, of the
Argus, and followed medicine—the profes-
sion of his late father. Now the youngster
(he’s in his early twenties) is Registrar at
the Melbourne Hospital—a position of great
responsibility.
Editor Schuler is already back in harness
at the Age office after the recent blow of his
only son’s death. Confreres are amazed at
the' rather fragile-looking man’s pluck. »on
Philip showed the same spirit when he went
back to the Front as a private after a pre-
vious trip as war-correspondent and with
several pre-war years’ experience in local
military matters. Just a little bit of wire-
pulling could have gained a comfortable
commission, and both father and son were
very careful that there wasn’t any.
Brig.-General Burston is mighty proud of
his doctor son Roy. This young man left Ins
practice and went off to the war more than
two years ago. He was originally with the
4th Light Horse, but is now with a field
ambulance. He was soon promoted to major
has just become a lieut.-colonel.
Tennis-champion Rod Heath, who is nose-
diving in the Flying Corps in France, had
a nastly spill some time ago. Last week
brought news that the engine of his ’plane
went on strike when up 60ft.. and Heath
again dropped to earth. But it only shook
him, so daisies won’t bloom above Heath
this time.
Major Percy Collins, youngest son of the
one-time general manager of Reuter’s, has
been killed in the trenches. Last year he
married May, elder daughter of Dick Grice,
who, with her younger sister Dodo, was
tripping in the Fog under the wing of the
elder Miss Chomley. Mrs. Collins died of
bronchitis in England nearly three months
back.
The Ross-Soden party for the Anzac Buffet
was the popular event of the week. Mrs.
Ross Soden. a brilliant spectacle in amber-
brown transparencies, hostessed the show
on Thursday evening. She threw open her
house to the last room, and Grong Grong was
soon packed from cellar to attic with expen-
sive clothes and people. A committee had
been formed to keep the different amusements
going. The young girls took to the ballroom
and made the best of the available handful
of partners. Lesley Madden, all pink and
crystal beads, entrenched herself with a
gambling wheel at a crowded junction. Few
escaped her. The little Fenner girl helped.
She wore a bright blue tulle snood on her
hair and very big rosettes on her shoe-tips.
The bridge players (mostly women) were
set in a solid block in the drawing-room.
They scarcely moved or spoke from 8 p.m.
till 3 a.m. Tables for more frivolous cards
were dotted all over the place—in odd rooms
and on landings. The girl dancers bewailed
the fact that the billiard-room was open for
possible men partners to steal away to.
Supper was a fierce skirmish in the dining-
room. The hostess scudded about heartening
up maids with coffee urns and doing juggling
tricks with whisky jars. Some food and
drink had to be locked up in another room
for latecomers. Cyril Maude was abducted
as he left his stage door and motored out
to the revel. As soon as he got his breath
he recited two poems to the company, and
was then rewarded with some of the pre-
served vittles. Bigjohn Forrest convoyed his
dame and niece Muriel. Balsillie danced
away some of his rain-making excitement.
Fan Dango Mackay sang in the ballroom
and made a sensation. She rarely performs
in public now. Kirby also warbled. Dr.
Klatchko, in khaki, amazed the men by de-
claring that he never smokes. He also
murmured that Grong Grong was a “looong
way from Collins-street.” Somebody pro-
mised to have it moved nearer. Mrs. Bowes
Kelly was on hand with her big tribe of
pretty daughters. Mrs. Miller, in a slim
black-jetted frock, brought her niece in blue.
Dr. Barry Thompson and Mrs. Barry (she
was all lavender and lace) had committee
work to do. Maggie Stir-ling loomed up above
the crowd in black. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald
wandered about in a lovely black gown and
a bored air, raffling a big black satin box.
Miss Nyulasy was tied down to a lingerie
stall. .
The Commercial Travellers gave tnei
annual party to about 2000 youngsters m the
Town Hall on Saturday. Middle-aged bag-
men darted about in grotesque paper caps,
placing orders for gratuitous flags and
sweets. There was dancing, Punch and
Judy, performing dogs and monkeys and
large quantities of food. Gaud Mayor Ilen-
nessy looked in for a while when the tun
was‘at its height, but his presence did not
seriously disturb the guests.
Melba and party set all the dress spies
going at the last Saturday ‘Pop. ihe
star and her friends looked as if they had
bought out a stock of assorted haberdashery
for an eccentric hairdressing competition.
The natural wool was combed back from the
forehead and gathered into a gigantic bun
at the back and bandaged with chiffonery.
Melba wore a black velvet bandage, a wreath
of roses and diamond star. A flapper hid
her golden locks under a spreading mass of
pink chiffon ; and the face of the Fanning
girl w y as partly visible under her front locks
and a back bun done up in a black velvet
sash with a few glittering hair-slides.
Italian Red Cross Button Day struck an
icy Friday, with a howling wind. The Button
girls could have cried, only that a break-
down would have made their blue noses
bluer. They were wearing coy Italian
dresses, but had to either risk pneumonia
or cover the frocks with fur coats. Some
hardy Italians manned a motor-gondola,
with a gondolier who tinkled his man-
dolin and fluttered Italian-colored rib-
bons in the teeth of the wolfish wind.
Mrs. Yergoni was with them, in the
native Italian dress. Aiece Mimi M atson
accompanied her in a charming Italian cos-
tume and wearing wonderful gold ear-rings
several inches long. They were wrought in
Florence for a great-grandmother a century
or so ago. Fasoli, in everyday clothes, took
them into the Australia, where they ousted
the afternoon orchestra and played and sang.
Iticardi’s small boy was in the dark green
and red of an Italian soldier. Other Italians
trundled about towm in a white “Cavalleria
Rusticana” cart decorated with bright red,
green and white ribbons. Debonair Cavalier
Eles visited all the kiosks. His jolly little
school-girl daughter was dressed as an
Italian sailor.
To help St. Vincent’s Hospital, through
the Miniature Pictures Fund, the Taits gave
a special matinee of “Peg o’ My Heart,’
and filled King’s Theatre with the motored
classes. The Hennessys took a box, and
Mrs. Hitchcock and her pretty flapper
daughter had a party in another roost. The
Bussts and the Petts were other boxers. The
Forrest dame sat in the front stalls with
Miss North and some naval men. Mrs. Tom
White and Mrs. Barry Thompson had their
shoe-tips in the orchestra. Mrs. Blaubaum
was an imposing incident in grey ; and sev-
eral snowy-capped nurses came from the
military hospital.
The L. Iv. S. Mackinnon clan skirled on
Saturday when Merunqua rushed the Grand
National from under the nose of Eric Con-
nolly's Bundong. It was a bright breezy day
with the morning rain-clouds nearly blown
away. Melba went out wearing a tricky
little hat. It was boat-shaped and had a
pearl half-moon on the bows and a silver
ornament aft. Lady Susan Fitzclarence, in
a tip-tilted black hat, was hung with ’pos-
sum skins. George Armstrong was busy in
the saddling-paddock getting things straight
for his big party. Cyril Maude wandered
about grey-gloved and smoking a fat cigar.
Betty Murray accompanied the star in a
cape and muff of civet, a bright purple hat
tinned over her ruddy hair. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald wore very high-heeled boots, and
a fur-trimmed cloth coat to her knees. Little
Mrs. Pudukota —the Fink girl—was sub-
dued in neat tailorings, with a veil bound
tightly round her small navy hat. The
sociable Dr. Ivlatchko was with the Ducketts
and Hugs. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme was muffled
to her ears in seal and skunk furs. Mrs.
Mackay deplored the absence of her husband,
and brightened the saddling-paddock with a
duck of a purple hat.
Sister Adelaide’s consoling lines:—
At the end of the current session of Parliament
Tommy Ryan, M.L.A., drops out of the S.A. politi-
cal arena. For 20 years he has been one of the
Labor party’s strongest men. Education has been
his hobby, and he takes a proprietary interest in our
newly-acquired Education Act, which was framed
on recommendations of a Commission of which the
eloquent Thomas w-as chairman. He is bound for
Victoria, and as he is too energetic to be quiet for
long more political trouble of some sort may be
expected as soon as he gets unpacked.
Citizens unburdened themselves of over £1640 on
Violet Day, and the Cheer-Up workers expect the
country collections to lift the total to about £2OOO.
Tuesday’s express brought back Captain d’Erlan-
cer from Melbourne, where he was a non-paying'
boarder with the Munro- Fergusons. The Jairguson ,
Kt£ are to visit us in September and go gay
Jt The Australia Day committee needs more money.
Expenditure is at the rate of £26 000 a year now
and as less than 10 per cent, of the men ha -
returned £26,000 is little compared with what will
be required. Since it commenced operations, o ■
December 6, 1915, the executive has paad out
£50,000 and dealt with 4500 appeals, hapunda »
running a queen competition of its own to >ake
funds, with Mrs. Kidman as her Majesty « f
Industries and Mrs. 11. H. Dutton as the Empiess o,
G G den A.' Bradford, an ex-Indian civil servant, who
died at Glenelg- at the end of the week, was a
Agra at the time of the Mutiny and shuddered ovei
its horrors. The lady who was after wauls his
wife was at Meerut, where her father edited an
English paper, and it was her eldest sister who
telegraphed the news of the rising through to Delhi.
The rainbow-trout that were imported from Maori-
land to stock the Murray have flourished so well
that the Fisheries Department has been thinning
them out by netting. One beauty sent down from
Renmark t’other day weighed 4|lb.
A cable this week brought tragic news of the
death of Mrs. Roy Davidson in U.S.A. With her
husband, who was bound for the Front, she left
here in early May, hoping to follow him across to
England as soon as the Atlantic was free to women
again. It is only two years since she was married,
and in that short period she has lost husband and
father—the latter Mr. Herbert Hughes, who died
towards the end of last year.
The D.S.O. has been gazetted to Major J. K. Paul
who left here with the 32 nd towards the end of ’l5.
Sapper L. W. McNamara, 8.C.E., has received a
military medal.
Lieut. R. D. Rankin, of the Flying Corps, who
got the Croix de Guerre for his work in France,
has been accidentally killed in Egypt.
The engagement is announced of Miss Marjorie
Craog (she was a successful Celia in an amateur
performance of “As You Like It”) to “Bob ’ Hawker.
He has been at the Front since the early part of
the war. His father was of the G. C. Hawker
family and his mother is a daughter of the late
Barr Smith.
Here and there a French girl captures an
Australian, and probably there will be more
of it now that it is easier to get leave from
the trenches to go to Paris than to consume
transport space by going to London. Bom-
bardier Frank Barton, a young Essendon
eligible, has just surrendered to Miss Simonie
Dailly, of Marseilles and Amiens.
A rumor is being passed over the tea-tables
that Eily McArthur was married last week
in England to Alan Mackintosh. The two
were engaged before Alan left for England,
but couldn’t get dad’s consent to a war-
time marriage. The young things were in-
consolable. Alan went to France with the
King Edward Horse. Eily (the daughter of
our Stuart McArthur) went to England later
to stay with pretty sister Mildred, who
married Billy Knox. Mildred and baby are
flatting somewhere.
Evelyn Scotney and her tall baritone hus-
band arrived from America last week. Sev-
eral loads of the Scotney family, headed by
Scotney pere, firmly attached to a small
Stars and Stripes, waved the couple into the
Spencer-street station, where two of the
Tait brethren joined in the greetings.
Howard White’s get-up dared the Polar
regions to do their worst, but his wife had
burst into ice-cream effects and looked like
a poster queen at a Glaciarium Carnival.
Mr. and Mrs. White, who are living quietly
with relatives in one of the suburbs, have
had quite a good time in the Big Republic.
Last February they did 23 concerts in the
State of Massachusetts alone, and warbled
to a recruiting meeting of 40,000 in Boston.
The Cherniavsky boys are still at it. The
booking rush encouraged the management to
add two more “absolutely last” concerts on
Tuesday and Thursday. On Tuesday, the
boys were visibly depressed—perhaps be-
cause their departure for America was post-
poned. The usually exuberant Leo dropped
into dreary andantes with his fiddle, Mischel
(he would be a boat later in seeing his
Canadian fiancee) gloomed over his ’cello,
and young pianist Jan of the rose-leaf skin
wore his most bored-baby air. The house
was not crammed, you see, since the musical
public had not hoped for more. Also, like
the rest of us, the musical public may have
noticed that pork and beans and most other
things have riz.
Mrs. Pohlman and a big committee of in-
terested people are arranging a benefit con-
cert to tenor Lois, late of the Gonsalez Co.
Lois is a great favorite and full of good
nature. He sings with the greatest delight
—over and over again—at any patriotic or
charity show.
r 0n r,t Frid . ay , ;lf t«?oon Max Selinsky and
Leo Cherniavsky will play the famous Bach
Concerto for two violins. The musical der-
vishes are whooping about it.
The Playhouse was filled with music-
drinkers on Saturday night, when a very
numerous orchestra, headed bv Fritz Hart
- played through the Fritz Hartian grand
operetta, Ruth and Naomi,” while the Con-
servatorium girls sang it. The * they put
on Henrv Purcells opera, Dido and
&ieas.” ' A fascinating girl named Jessie
Mo Vi ichael took the man part, of Himeas anc
mnked imoosing in scarlet and white with
i waving cloak of crimson. Melba uoxed m
JJof the gold-latticed pens in great magni-
ficence. Her guest, Lady Susan packed her
fair curls into a purple band and floated in
Sack tulle frills. Mrs. Lempnere wore
Mack to show up her be-dianmnded red nan.
Mr* George Armstrong, still an invalid,
was' muffled in furs, but showed a lovely
gold-blue snood wound round her hair.
Peggy Centre was grouped with some other
pretty Con. girls in a side box. The Turners
had stalls. /
1 ast Sunday’s empty-saddle parade of 200
Purple Crossers at Caulfield racecourse drew
an enormous crowd, which provided a lot of
patriotic thruppences and plenty of material
for the photo weeklies, hor half an hour
or so. on platforms placed along the course
at short intervals, dozens of orators waved
banners of speech before the multitude. L p
in the new stand Donald Mackinnon, Direc-
tor of Recruiting, bared his silvery hack hair
to the breeze and harangued 500 or 000
women in quite a passionate manner. “But-
tons” Jenkinson was there on his faithful
Blackberry, hearkening critically to the box-
rattling. Sallie Ilya ms, in charge of a squad
of flag-waving Misses, put them through
various figures on the green, while all the
bands in Melbourne helped to make an up-
roar. It was a great day for everybody,
with no indication whatever that it was all a
matter of life and death. A great gathering
entirely—and the result was seven recruits!
Sara Allgood was out of the cast of “Peg
o’ My Heart” last week, and her brogue and
untidy dog were both adopted by Tien Hogue,
the clever daughter of J. A. Hogue, who
used to lie Minister for Education in N. S.
Wales. The young Australian made a very
swate colleen —much too nice, in fact, for
the insipid young man whom she agrees to
marry in the last act.
Betty Murray, the girl who makes such a
success of the maid’s part in “Grumpy,” is
a red-headed Irish-American from New
York. Cyril Maude thinks a great deal of
the way she handles the part. Betty, the
Camelia and Betty’s hair have much to do
with the detective tangle.
The Arts and Crafts are bent on a loan
exhibition for July 25—27. They stipulate
that the exhibits must be useful creations of
artistic design; they may be ancient or
modern and made of lead, bronze, copper,
brass or pewter. It should make a pictu-
resque show at the Clyde House rooms.
A clever young Australian carried off the
coveted waltz prize at the ball given in St.
Ivilda Town Hall in aid of the Y.M.C.A.
Club at Caulfield Military Hospital. Slim
Molly Locke was the conqueror.
The patriotic carnival run by the mayoral
Itussells, of Hawthorn, panned out well
financially. *£3ooo is already in and there
is more to be counted.
Grey-haired Father Robinson, of Camber-
well, reports that singer Amy Castles is
giving concerts in New York with good re-
sults and encouraging notices. Shortly after
the mail left she was to sing before the
directorate of the Metropolitan Opera.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


vfi
b
&
o>:
7j
I
%
ini
UUUUUq
|o
qo ro
iKTOIG
2Q /Ts (ft VL V
S&&S8
5J ir- / P (i-Ii
1®
1
s&sa
s So>E> S£ !
£Q fe s4’
<=
H
. in
o
(D
3
m
r t
35
■cS>
"cl
x- LJ V*.
5 B fe
S'
On
OF
gJESSI
■V:
ornrrrs
1 1 I I I Ml I


NERVES
are responsible for BACKACHE, INSOMNIA,
ANAEMIA, NEURALGIA, BRAIN-FAG, BREAK-
DOWN, LASSITUDE, DIZZINESS,
PALPITATION and other such ailments.
\Uien you suffer from any of these neurasthenic conditions do not make the mistake of tow™ .1,.
or stimulants. AV hat you need is something to purify and enrich the blood and nourish A,” < rUffs
For this purpose you cannot get anythin! better than nouush the nerves -
Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts.
What users say:
MR. JACK CANNOT, the popular comedian of the Tivoli Follies •—« r .
and tired I decided on taking a course of Hean’s Tonic NerveNuS '
MR. C. BLANDFORD WRIGHT, of the well-known firm of Wrnht TWn u o
Ltd., Carriers and Shipping Agents, Svdnev savs* “Having C 1 #. * ’ , dton an( * Co.,
years from muscular rheumatism, I was advised‘to trv Hean’s Trmf d v" a ”v ° ff for some
result that not only have all signs of the rheumatism u * e ve !suts ’ with the
has greatly benefited.” disappeared, but my general health
They are as good for the nerves as HEENZO fHean’s . .
Obtainable from all reliable Chemists and Stores Tl -- : *^ s ence) 1S for colds.
dney
A Signal Success
I3i
King(jeorgelV
WIHUISI&Y
IheTOMIOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
* * * *
“H. J.T.”: The other morning I set a wire
fish-trap, with a large meat bone suspended from the
top. When placed in position the trap was about
three or four feet below the surface of the water.
Returning a couple of hours later, the tide had
fallen, leaving only two feet over the trap, through
which I noticed a dark object. I investigated hope-
fully, but found I had only scored a black diver or
shag. It was entirely dead, having dived with suffi-
cient enthusiasm to drive its head right through the
\yire netting.
“J.G.”: Re fire-brigade horses (B.
31/5/’l7). Ballarat East had the champion fire-
fighter’s neddy. His name was Darkey, and his job
was to tear towards the smoke with the single-horse
reel. At the first clang of the tower-bell the old horse
would start to kick Ihe door off his loose-box if it
was not opened instantly, lie would be in the shafts
and harnessed in less than five seconds, and the
couple of firemen who manned the reel would have
to make a flying jump aboard or old Darkey would
be off at a gallop without them. With this horse the
Ballarat East firemen would nine times out of ten
beat the Ballarat City Brigade at fires even though
they had to travel half a mile farther. Darkey was
a good long-distance traveller too. A big fire started
at Buninyong one night, and someone wired in to
Ballarat East for the brigade. Buninyong is about
eight miles south of Ballarat, but Darkey and his reel
were tearing down Warrenheip-street 20 minutes after
the wire had been sent.
“Moobitta”: Talking about fire-brigade
horses, I see a picture. My first flannelette shirt ;
me on a colt ; a blazing hot wind; open plains as
far as the horizon. When the colt had settled down,
kid-like I must have my smoke, and a spark from
the match flashed on my new shirt. In a moment I
was converted into a first-class case for a fire-
brigade. I did not ring the bell—for one reason
because the nearest fire-alarm was 400 miles away;
for another, because my prad took fright and set off
over cotton- and blue-bush as if the Devil were
chasing him. With a tight grip of the reins I flung
myself into a blue bush. The colt resented this, and
promptly dragged me among the larger bushes —
dragged me until I was extinguished. Then, burnt
and bruised, I recovered my seat, and went home to
get what was coming to me.
“Snell”: McQuad had come down from
Left End to stay with his new son-in-law at Wanget,
and while there spent much of his substance at Pete
Rickett’s favorite inebriates’ retreat, Westend. One
night at about 11 Donald Scott, McQuad’s son-in-law,
put his horse’s nose in at Pete's bar, with a coarse
request for John McQuad. Pete replied with his un-
varying courtesy that McQuad had departed with his
load and one bottle in each pocket two hours earlier,
and must by this time be well at home. Donald
urged his horse back to Wanget. McQuad had not
returned. Two or three of the hands were called up,
and the hunt for the missing father-in-law was con-
ducted all through the long, dark night. It was
Goodge, the rouseabout, who found McQuad —found
him in the grey dawn, wet through, mud from heels
to hair inclusive, clinging desperately to a pole set
up in the centre of the dam, not a quarter of a mile
from Scott’s homestead. He had waded into the dam,
discovered the pole, climbed it, and had clung there,
like a sick ’possum up a stick, since about half-past
10. Goodge shouted to him, but poor John was too
exhausted to answer, so the rouseabout waded out.
“What in thunder are you doing here?” asked Goodge.
“What’m I doin’ ?” replied McQuad. “What’m I
doin ? I’m savin' my life! Can’t you see the
country’s flooded ?”
THE SABBATH SEVERELY BUSTED.
REV. CHISLEMUG: "It arieves me to have to tell you, Mr. Brown, that on this sacred
Sabbath moming I have just paśed your son going to the crèk with a fishing-
rod."
B ROWN : "Yer don’t say! The young scoundrel! An ’ here’s me been lookin’ all over
the house fer it.”
THE VERY THING.
I.: “Where (hie) do you hang out?”
II.: “ Dunno! (Hie.) Where do you?”
I.: “ Forgesh.”
II.: “Sho do I. Lucky—we can take a taxi together.”
“Te Babarantiko”: Haunting the tide-
bared reefs of the Central Pacific atolls north of
the Equator for food is a bird resembling in color
and markings the Cape pigeon, or the Australian
peewit, and in size the starling, but of plumper and
much more nuggety build. The Butaritari people
call the bird te kitiba. If he has any other Chris-
tian name I don’t know it. Like the sparrow te
kitiba hunts in large flocks ; he is almost invisible on
the patchy, pool-studded reef, until, when startled, the
flock rises with thunderous whirring of wings. With
a stick down his neck and carefully grilled over a
cocoanut-husk fire, te kitiba is not bad as a snack,
with ripe cocoanut representing vegetables and trim-
mings. The natives rarely eat the bird, but the
discolored sports catch them in snares, prison them in
small cages, and gradually and patiently work up
antagonism between two birds. When the training
is completed spectator gather and two duellists
begin. Invariably the birds fight fiercely and furi-
ously, even to the death.
* * » *
“11.V.E.” : A sudden exodus of black cock-
atoos from their haunts in thickly-timbered ranges
of the coast is usually a precursor of rough weather.
I have watched these ghoulish birds drifting with
the mist out of the ranges between the Monaro
(N.S.W.) Plains and the coast, in heavy, undulating
flight, and in many instances their appearance was
followed by south-easterly gale-driven rains. This
funereal fowl usually occurs in pairs or small com-
panies, but I have noted as many as 30 in a flock.
The call note, seldom uttered, is a wild, unearthly
shriek. The bird is just as fond of the big white
grubs which abide in the wattle and other trees as
brother blackfellow is (or was), and to cut these out
of decaying timber with its scimitar-like beak is an
easy task. The common black cockatoo has tail-
feathers broadly marked with sulphur-yellow; but a
rarer variety, Leach’s black cockatoo, has tail-
feathers marked with vermilion red.
“E.A.C.”: Have a helping of this parcel
of honey taken from a coolabah tree in this district
(Springsure, Q.) a few days ago. Take plenty—we've
got five kerosene-tins and one oil-drum full of the
beautifully-flavored bee-juice. Xow you can all rush
in to tell me that the tree was hardly worth cutting
down for a thimbleful like that.
* * * *
“Kassi-Kassi”: Somebody wrote lately
about a woman in Queensland who, being an editor,
was generally addressed as “Sir.” “Sir” is the
commonest form of address for a white woman in
Papua. It is true that the natives have a word
meaning “lady,” hut it is rather long— “sinabada”
—and the average “boy” prefers to call his feminine
employer simply “sir.” Sometimes he calls her “sina-
bada-sir,” and sometimes “missessi” or “missessi-
sir. But in a land where a sheep is described as a
“bulumakausipi ’ one may expect anything in the
way of philological confusion.
Adelaide Register has been asking for
definite news of destruction of lambs by eagles.
George Aldridge, of Ilaylands station, on the Murray,
makes oath and says:—-
The eagles always pick out the largest and fattest
of the lambs. 1 have seen eagles chase lambs several
times. Their method is as follows. They always
hunt in pairs—male and female. They spy out a
solitary lamb, or single one out from the grazing
flock. Then both fly low along the ground, the male
in the lead, and strike the lamb with great force,
usually on the side, and knock it off its feet. Be-
fore it has time to rise both settle on it and start
to work. Their combined weight and strength are
sufficient to hold down a fairly large and strong
lamb. They then pick open the skin, just behind the
shoulder and flank, and eat out the liver and fat
round the bowels. Then they usually pick the skin
off the side of the face, and eat out the root of the
tongue. Next they pull the tongue out from the
back of the jaws. I reckon each pair of eagles
accounts for a lamb a day until the lambs are too
large for them to master —that is to say, after five
months old.
TOOLS OF TRADE.
OSWALD : “ ’Ere y’are, Oscar—take yer
pick!”
OSCAR: "Sooner ’ave a shovel!”
Ivowhai”: Has anybody noticed that a
carpet-snake skin belt if constantly worn affects the
eyes, making them painful and inducing drowsiness?
t s a fact. ~So matter how thick a protective cover-
mg one may have on the inside of the belt or how
much clothing may be between the skin and the
belt, the result seems invariably the same. It is
not a singular experience; numbers of bushmen have
spoken of it to me, but nobody has yet explained the
(Continued on page 24.1
CAMPING TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the river in the valley purls a laughing song
of glee,
And the bush is still along the mountain range;
When the half-heard muffled sobbing of the restless
distant sea
Comes sig/hing o’er the stillness soft and strange;
When the fading evening shadows flit through spaces
where the track
Dips deep into the gloom of gullies damp,
It is then the weary traveller, aching heart and
aching back,
Says gladly: “Yes, it's nearly time to camp.”
Ah! old mate, we both have wandered, in the merry
days long gone,
Down the dusty tracks that lured us to the West.
Always facing disappointments, ever gamely pushing
on,
To the Further Out, on life’s eternal quest;
And when miles of weary striving through the
torrid wastes of dust
Had made us curse the swag’s confining cramp,
The splendor of the sunsets brought contentment,
ease and trust;
We hailed the hour when it was time to camp.
Now, across the plain of life there moves on us
with sure advance
The shadows of the careless years we spent—-
They are memories softly stealing from the regions
of Romance—
And we, here in the twilight, penitent,
Recall with eager yearning all the merry days arear,
Those happy, reckless days of youthful tramp,
While waiting for the dusk to fall, and listening to
hear
The Voices murmur: “It is time to camp.”
N.S.W.
GORDON BENNETT


This is IT!
Murdoch’s Red Spot Sale
Special in Travelling Rugs.
Here’s a snug proposition for travellers
and stay-at-homes. It will generate
heat and save your cash.
Make the acquaintance of one of these
grand comforters—values will make you
pay attention if you want to economise.
ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUGS
with fringed ends, in neat patterns and
pleasing colorings—snug and cosy for
long or short journeys—worth every
penny of 30/-
Red Spot
Price
2216
Post Free
This offer can’t last much longer.
Come along and make your choice or
write Desk R to-day.
Write for our Red Spot Sale Catalog,
full of Bargains. Hurry! Sale ends
Saturday, July 21.
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney
“COMPLETE OUTFITTERS FOR MEN AND BOYS/’
HOTELKEEPERS!
!CCS3S^
V hen you taste the quality of Soda made
with the Victory Bar Arm, you marvel at
its sparkling brilliancy, clean flavor, and
thorough saturation. Drawn ice-cold on
draught; better than high-priced bottled
soda.
LEMONADE & GINGERALE, of delici-
ously clean flavor. No sign of any twang,
as present with other makes of machines.
OUR PATENT WATER-FLUSHING
SYSTEM enables all pipes to be thor-
oughly flooded every night by simply turn-
ing on a tap. We absolutely guarantee
Lemonade and Gingerale free from objec-
tionable taste and smell.
SIMPLICITY.—THE VICTORY is the
result of years of experience and the
adaptation of the best Mechanical skill.
We have done away with all springs com-
ing in contact with Soda or Syrup.
We show our confidence in this machine
by covering same with a written guarantee.
PRICE.—Our large factory organisation enables us to offer this leading
Bar Arm at a lower price than any competitor.
On receipt of Postcard we will mail you full particulars.
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.
219 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Queensland Agents: J. W. Palmer Ltd., Cork Manufacturers and Importers,
Grey Street, South Brisbane.
Adelaide : Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
Perth: A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
New Zealand: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets, Wellington.
AIR VENT
PLUG
FROM
INTAKE
MANIFOLD
from main
GASOLINE TANKi
PLUG?
TO
CARBU*
RETOB
VACUUM GASOLINE SYSTEM
THE FEED SYSTEM FOR EVERY CAR
Gasoline is the very life-blood of the motor, and the gasoline must be supplied to the motor
steadily, continually and without interruption.
.that is the job of the feed system —to feed gasoline with unfai ing regularity, under every
condition, on any grade.
Just a few short years ago there were only
two feed systems known to the motorist—the
pressure and the gravity systems. Then came the
Stewart Vacuum System, and at once motor
manufacturers and owners alike became interested.
Its introduction marked one of the biggest steps
of advancement in motor-car construction in
recent years.
The Stewart A acuum System is an extremely
simple one. It comprises a small tank installed
under the hood on the dash or motor, and con-
nected to the intake manifold, carburetter and
gasoline supply reservoir.
The suction of the motor through the mani-
fold draws the gasoline from the rear reservoir to
the small tank under the hood, from which the
Showing Stewart Vacuum Tank installed on Dash.
gasoline falls in a positive, even flow to carburetter. Once installed the system requires practi-
cally no attention. r
Xo matter what the grade the Stewart Vacuum System still supplies the gasoline to the
motor. Cars can. negotiate hills that with any other system would be impossible.
75% of American Car Manufacturers now install this system in preference to the pressure or
gravity feed systems.
Many tests have shown that the Stewart Vacuum System saves fuel—the carburetter does not
receive too much gasoline at one time and too little the next. The flow is always even.
Any car can be equipped with this system, and every car is the better for having it.
Obtainable from All Motor
Accessory Dealers 8 Garages.
Price
651-
Write to-day for Name of Nearest Dealer from whom you can secure STEWART PRODDCTS.
Cooper Engineering Company Ltd.,
129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY
486 Collins Street* MELBOURNE.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and.
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. ’
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
'n tike mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effed in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma (SI All Chest
Affections.
16 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
w. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
PD^??!)»in R ? B in SO ei 189l 89 Flinders Lane - Melbourne
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
m
ft
WHAT DYSPEPTICS SHOULD EAT.
A PHYSICIAN’S ADVICE.
Indigestion and practically all forms of
stomach trouble are, nine times out of ten,
' i a( ' idity » therefore stomach sufferers
should, whenever possible, avoid eating food
hat is acid in its nature, or which by ohemi-
eal action in the stomach develops acidity.
Unfortunately, such a rule eliminates most
foods which are pleasant to the taste as well
as those which are rich in blood, flesh- and
nerve-building properties. This is the reason
why dyspeptics and stomach sufferers are
usually so thin, emaciated and lacking in
that vital energy which can only come from
, bo<ly - For the benefit of those
ve been obli sed to exclude
Jiom their diet all starchy, sweet or fattv food,
oni are V 3?” 8 to bpep up a miserable exist-
" e ™ glatdn Products, I would suggest that
IhL? ld try a ™ eal of any food or foods
vh ch you may like in moderate amount.
snonrff.,l I . at, ' ]y afterwards half a tea-
hot o/* n f ht ? urate d magnesia in a little
•id u-nf n Wat ® r - Tbis will neutralise any
formed n h r may be pres< mt, or which may be
Jastpad of tbe usual feeling of
v?u? fond and fnII ? PSS you will find that
rater! agr . eos . Wl , tb y ou perfectly. Bisu-
corroet?ve g G a ia d .° ubtlGSS the best food
SSSnI , antacid k .u«wn. It is not a
stomapli • , and bas uo direct action on the
the™food’ bpt , by . neu tralising the acidity of
source f mutents, and thus removing the
the iioii o ° ? cld llr itation which inflames
than e 1H , ,T" h liuing - does more
medicine D° ssl, oly he done by any drug or
of medicine S u Physician I believe in the use
admit S T W - eV e r necessary - hut I must
ail inflamed SPe the sense of dosing
drugs instead 'T *F ntat . ed stomach with
cause nf .; r,d of the acid—the
, ' aH thp trouble. Get a little
what you wTT from y°ur chemist, eat
of the hivin',it ? at your next meal, take some
“D.F.”: There used to be a fair-sized
hollow tree at McDonald’s Track in Gippsland
(Vic.) ; for years it was used as a church. Another
hollow tree out that way was the happy home of a
man, his wife, three children and his father-in-law.
“E.S.S.”: The common bronzewing has
saved many a traveller’s life by directing him to
water. For all that, the traveller pots it at every
opportunity. It is one of the plums of the forest,
a plump, symmetrical bird, a pound in weight, and
to obtain it the shooter will cheerfully expend a
dozen cartridges. It is not an easy bird to shoot,
being shy and wary, keen-eyed and sharp-eared,
while its flight is strong and rapid. Sportsmen wait
for it in ambush near waterholes at dusk, for it is
a late drinker. It lights near the bank, and stands
awhile looking about before walking down to the
water. Though the squatter-pigeon and the crested
bronzewing are superior eating', the common bronze-
wing is the most coveted of the forest/pigeons, just
as the wonga, which is inferior to the brush bronze-
wing, is the most prized of the scrub pigeons.
“S.” : Is the well-known cattle trick of
chewing loose bones dangerous if the bones are those
of poisoned foxes? The South Aus. Government has
been asking this question of sundry experts. Har-
greaves, Director of Chemistry, gives a scientific
answer. He says that either arsenic or strychnine
remains—especially in the backbone, which seems to
collect it—for months, perhaps years. The danger
depends on how much the original victim had swal-
lowed. On the whole, he does not think a second-
hand dose should be fatal. But Williams, the prac-
tical Chief Inspector of Stock, is positive on the
other Side. In the old rabbit-poisoning days hundreds
of cattle were, he says, lost in this very manner, and
he suggests that the disease called “dry bible,” which
flourished in those days but has dwindled away with
the rabbit-plague, was simply a manifestation of
second-hand poison.
* * * *
“Konini” : The year 1884 produced prob-
ably the worst rat plague that Maoriland has
known. The suffering districts lay along the north
end of the South Island, where crops were so ravaged
that they were not worth harvesting. Though the
pests died wholesale from some unaccountable cause,
so that their corpses strewed the roads, fields and
gardens and poisoned wells and streams, there seemed
no reduction in their numbers. The battalions came
on steadily. One wing of the army took the wrong
turning, and, thousands strong, found itself at the
extremity of a cape. Without hesitation it headed
into the sea. Later, great numbers were found on
D’Urville Island, so that they must have swum the
French Pass —a pretty tough proposition. The
opinion of scientists was that the invaders were a
species of the “Maori rat,” and that they came from
the high and rough country on the western side of
the Kaikoura ranges.
ART CRITICISM.
SHORT-SIGHTED GUSHER: “Oh, isn’t that a
sweetly-pretty picture—so restful—er
—what is the subject?”
ARTIST : “Oh — all — it’s a liner being blown
up by a submarine.”
“Dead Finish”: Sandflies and mosquitoes
have been playing Sheol with the kangaroos anil
wallaroos during the wet season in North
Queensland. In parts the ’roo has been practically
exterminated. Occasionally one conies across a soli-
tary specimen, but he is usually stone blind from
sandfly bites. When started he goes round and round
in circles, crashing into everything in his way. The
absence of the small black fly was a cause for much
wonder this season. After the rains, when the grass
is very green, any one of the plagues of Egypt
would be a trifle compared with the coming of the
Bananaland fly. Fortunately he soon vanishes. This
TOO HARD-UP TO HEAR.
FATHER KELLY (severely): “Pat Hogan, didn’t you hear me callin" you befor: you went
into that place?”
PAT HOGAN: “Sure, yis, your Reverence. But I only had thrippence.”
year instead of him came the blowfly, with dis-
astrous results to the jumbuck. Few people outside
those directly interested in the pastoral business
realise what the ravages of the blowfly really mean.
The North Queensland squatting folk have no hesi-
tation in saying that the blowfly is a greater evil
than drought, and recent stock losses have proved
this opinion to be correct. Everything in the jum-
buck line, from rams down to lambs, was attacked
in a manner hitherto unknown in the North. Many
stations lost 20 per cent, of their ewes, whilst
lambs and weaners figure just as heavily in the
casualty-lists. Crutching has been resorted to all
over the State. This, with the use of bluestone,
seems to be the best treatment. Carbolic dips are
next to useless.
“Sarto”: A few days ago, in Southern
Riverina (N.S.W.), we were invaded by an army of
milky-white gossamers that came out of the west and
attached themselves to everything in the line of
march. Whence came they? Miles of telegraph
wires were interwoven with them and the long
streamers in the breeze presented a very quaint,
appearance. Looking in a line with the sun at the
rough surface of a ploughed field covered thickly
with the fine webs shaken by atmospheric movement,
one would easily imagine that he was gazing on the
rippling surface of water—a flue sight. When the
oldest inhabitant saw these gossamers he told us to
look out for heavy rains, and, sure enough, we have
been deluged with wowsers’ whisky ever since.
# * * *
“Pick” : When the engine-driver's X-class
superheated locomotive, designed to haul a load of
CBO tons, is pulled up by stalks of grass, he takes
time off to ruminate upon the aggravating potency
of small things. That’s what happens frequently on
the Cooma line when the umbrella grass begins to
drift. The stuff piles against the fences and para-
chutes down the cuttings with every breeze. When
the train rolls over the stalks they are crushed to a
greasy pulp till the wheels lose their grip and the
mighty engine is brought to a gasping halt. The
train then has to be taken on in sections, and the
fettler gangs summoned to clear the track of the
spidery vegetable.
“Old Prawn” : As a food-fish the Austra-
lian salmon (Arripis trutta), no relation of the
celebrated pink fish of north European waters, was
until recently at a discount. Now it sells at about
6d. per fish. Fried when freshly caught the salmon
is fair eating, but a cook of experience recommends
baking in lemon juice. Immature members of the
tribe, called “salmon trout,” are held by some
fishermen to be a distinct variety, and are an im-
provement on the adult fish, on which the brown spots
present in the salmon-trout do not appear. The flesh,
however, is as soft as that of barracoota. I once
boiled a large example of this snake-like fish. It
had no more flavor than an assortment of rags. I’ll
admit that the teeth of this Methuselah among barra-
coutas were yellow with age. Smoked barraeouta is
good.
* * * *
“II.”: Concerning the food and habits of
the ringed black-and-white sea snake. All members
of the happy family hydrophidas, scientists aver,
feed upon small fishes which they hunt in nooks and
crannies of submerged rocks and among marine
herbage. Some sea-snakes are said to run to 10ft.
in length, but most are much smaller.
* * * *
“Dave T.” : Here at Tallabung, Forbes
district (N.S.W.), the mice have become self-
supporting. They live by eating one another. Left
17 prisoners in a tin a couple of days ago : to-day
only one complete mouse remained, but he was in
excellent condition. Gave him the D.C.M. for ser-
vices rendered, and sent him back to his dugout with
instructions to tell his cobbers about the fattening
properties of the new diet. If he is as plausible as
he was fat the mouse problem is solved.
* *
J.U. ’ : leans ago, on the plains of
Northern Victoria, I made many attempts to do-
mesticate various breeds of wild duck that visited
the swamps during spring and summer. It was
quite easy to get eggs and set them under broody
hens, along with eggs of the common farm-yard
ducks. It was also easy to rear the chicks. But I
never succeeded in keeping one wild bird after it
discovered that it could fly. Even those whose
wmgs I cut would hear the call of the wild and
clear off on foot.
“Kuscobin” : In the south island of Maori-
land I happened on a series of unique prehistoric
paintings in the limestone districts of Otago. These
are supposed to be the work of the Moiioii, the far-
back race that Henare’s ancestors found so tooth-
some a dainty. The coloring would seem to have
lost little of its brilliance, whilst the designs are
totally different from those in the characteristic Maori
carvings. A Yankee ethnologist holds that the
paintings may throw light upon the origin and
customs of the Moriori, so he has taken photographs
of them in order that they may be studied by over-
sea experts. I have seen the cave-paintings in
Westralia, but, lifelike as these are in many in-
stances, they are far more crudely drawn than these
in the cave galleries of Otago.
* * * *
“Outran” : Up here on this Adelaide hill-
side is a verandah used by many sick people. One of
our most welcome visitors is a thrush. On wet or
cold days especially, when all seems gloomy, he comes
up, announcing his arrival with a clear joyous call
from a tree close by. Thence, seeing all is quiet, he
slips swiftly down on to the verandah railing and
hops along it quickly and nervously, looking very
handsome in his suit of soft grey-blue and dusky
brown. But it is for that sweet and sunny call of
his we love him. For he is not tame, but merely
adventurous. He whistles again imperiously, and
someone flips a few biscuit-crumbs on to the floor.
The bird dives hastily down for them and shoots
off quickly to tell his mates about his wonderful
daring anil get fondly scolded by his wife.
* * * *
“P.W.” : The best substitute for tobacco
that I’ve found so far, after trying everything from
liorsefeed to rope, is chicory with a pinch of coffee.
Tea-leaves are horrible, and no leaves from the flower
or vegetable garden that I’ve tried have been a
pleasure. You can get a whiff of smoke from some
of them, but they do not satisfy the tobacco hunger.
If any bushman has a recipe I’d remember him in
my will.
* * * *
“C.M.8.”: Can any naturalist enlighten
me about the nature and origin of the substance
found under the trees along the banks of creeks, and
known as manna? Is it some kind of exudation from
the trees, is it found only under one particular
kind of tree, and is it at all similar to the Egyptian
manna, which I am told is found in the open desert ?
* * * *
“Pick”: When pursued by hawks, smaller
birds instinctively claim protection from stronger
animals that otherwise they would shun. Quails
and other ground birds when sorely pressed will
crouch underneath any animal feeding near, or will
run along amrtng the trampling feet of mobs of
cattle or sheep. Parrots, soldiers and peewits will
often flv inside a house and hang pantingly to the
walls, preferring the danger from the cat to that
from the cannibal hovering above. At Bungarby,
Monaro (N.S.W.), a bronzewing pigeon flew into
the folds of a woman's shawl to escape a brown
falcon, and when mustering once on the Bibbenluke
plains I saw a lark take sanctuary under the pommel
of a stockman’s saddle.
TRUE CONSOLATION.
“Never mind. Missus—the old cow gibbit jus’
t as much milk with the one eye.”
HIS TROUBLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Black was the good old fanner’s brow,
He spake the bitter word,
For at his feet there lay a cow,
The mother of the herd.
The stricken beast was aged and thin.
She stirred her head in pain.
The good old farmer scratched his chin,
And spat, and spake again:
“It’s durned well more’n I can stand.
Last week I lost a bull.
Now Strawberry’s a-dyin’, and
The pickle tub is full! ”
VICTORIA.
SILAS


stste (XPI>KS
CIGARETTES
Perfect satisfaction
—a sense of infinite
joy —a feeling of
deep content All of
these joys and more
may be yours to-day.
You will find them
wrapped up in every
State Express Cigar-
ette waiting to be
unfolded by you at
your leisure.
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
10 for 6d.
Standard Weight NOT LESS than 10 for Sixpence.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australas
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.. LONDON. ENGLAND
/
Hit""
V
m
"n
p
w
$
*
z
M
i


HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, CROUP AND COLDS.
rpHOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
A
“ An Excellent
Preparation.”
r
5s
Delightfully
Soothing.”
%
KJ
*
ss;
15.
cxmciity'-5»-viTw.
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n.s.w.; Wellington, n.z.
“OK”' Cyril Maude's “Grumpy" must
have been* mis-named for business purposes.
The old man is querulous, garrulous, testj,
hdgetv, frivolous and lots of other things,
but certainly not grumpy, as ordinarily
understood. Grumpy is a dictionary word,
signifying dissatisfied; melancholic. Maud* s
amusing old man is a cheerful chatterbox
who only pretends to be quick-tempered M>
boy” he savs, when it is suggested that h*
shall join his guests at dinner, Ive been
talking conventional rubbish to uninteresting
people for 50 years. Now I'm taking a holi-
day.” Nothing very grumpy in that. An
ancient who is apt to fall suddenly asleep
and make a noise like kittens shows due con-
sideration for his guests in not joining them
at the dinner-table.
Cyril Maude certainly understands the
feminine soul. But he should vary his tac-
tics and try to remember that women occa-
sionally compare notes. For instance, three
press-women recently met and gurgled ovei
the fascination of Grumpy. He actually
asked me if I could suggest any improvement
to his performance. - ' said one. He asked
me exactlv the same thing, - ’ confessed the
second, while the third grew very rosy and
was strangely silent.
“Exile” : Of Australian actors in America
Cyril Keightley has won most fame. He
has been in New York about 10 years and
holds now a recognised place in the profes-
sion. His acting is quiet; his elocution
free of affectation. Managers have trouble
in getting young American actors to take
parts calling for flawless English. Even
after subjecting an American actor to an
operation for post-nasal growths he still
talks nasally. So Keightley is always in
demand, thanks to his habit of speaking that
good English which he learned at home.
Mrs. Cyril Keightley, who is Miss Ethel
Dane on the stage, was born in Adelaide
i S.A.). Cyril came from the Sydneyside.
“Stargazer”: How comes it that a firm
like J.C.W., Ltd., with experience and every
other advantage a firm could reasonably
expect to retain, is still unable to gauge the
working-out. of a first night's programme—
like that of “The Link Lady” in Melbourne,
for instance —so as to assure the chances of
the show not being queered by the perform-
ance drifting far beyond the eleventh hour? It
may be set up as an axiom that any theatri-
cal show lingering along after 11 p.m. lags
superfluous on the stage. I contend further
that an ending drifting out till 20 past does
an entertainment more mischief than even
the uncomplimentary phrases of a few
critics which managements seem so much to
dread. At five minutes past 11 any man
experienced in theatrical atmospheres begins
to feel the uneasiness of the house. Good
stuff goes for little, middling matter is de-
tested. Keep it up 10 minutes longer, and
you send your audience away with a griev-
ance that will tincture with gall their version
of the whole show.
“J.F.H.”: After a succession of misfits
Barrie has scored with “The Old Lady
Shows Her Medals,” produced by Dot Bouci-
eault as the first item of a triple bill at the
New Theatre (London). It is a war-sketch
in Barrie’s Peter Pannish vein. The Old
Lady is a London charwoman, lonely and
childless, who listens to her neighbors chat-
tering about sons, brothers and husbands in
the battle zones. She has to sit silent
through it all because she has no male rela-
tive to brag about. But presently she reads
an account of a doughty deed performed by a
soldier in the Black Watch bearing her own
Scottish name, and then a scheme of decep-
tion occurs to her. She will adopt him as
hers. For this purpose she pretends to be
Lady Dolly, a personage in the London
fashionable world, and sends him presents of
cakes, mufflers and other comforts. He gets
seven days’ leave, and comes to London,
where, being a very lonely soldier, he natu-
rally seeks out his patroness—and you can
guess the rest. He is killed in action, of
course, and the last scene shows the Old
Lady reverently putting his medals and cap
away.
“Futsac”: Having seen Sylvia Bremer in
her first made-in-’Murkah film, it seems to
me that when she gets over her stagey in-
clinations she will run up with Enid Ben-
nett. At present she is handicapped by
having to play opposite Ray, a youth who
has been picture-acting for a long time, and
whose experience shows up Sylvia’s newness.
“Fax”: Genevieve Ward turned into the
SO - s recently; and Charles Wyndham cele-
brated his four-scoreth birthday within the
same week. How these moneyed mummers
do manage to make old bones—witness the
Bancrofts, the Ivendals, Wyndham, Ward and
many others whose names were before the
public 50 and 60 years ago! Ellen Terry’s
famous elder sister Kate, who left the stage
to marry a wealthy draper, is still living.
Mrs. Billington was 95 when she died a few
months ago. Loud talking, congenial brain-
work, and pleasant social conditions must be
conducive to longevity. No wonder there is
a Church and Stage Guild.
“Silas” : I was in Melba Hall (Melbourne
hni.) the other evening for the first time
an admirably-conceived concert-room ex-
cellent for its purpose, with only one annoy-
ance; a photograph of Nellie herself, life-size
and a little over, in a conspicuous position
acing the audience; a brick-hard composi-
tion showing the buxom songbird in the act
o conducting an imaginary orchestra while
wearing a boiler-iron gown, the tail end of
winch is hauled round to the front with the
photographer’s customary clamorous inten-
* t! le suture of his victim. A
portrait of Melba in oils, done by an artist,
might be made a very fine note of decora-
*°lS snow -white interior. Is the un-
vieldj, coarse-grained, over-grown photo
proof Poverty, or only another demonstra-
lon of the sad fact that musicians are rarely
possessed of any noticeable artistic feelins
apart from their own particular line of busi-
ness?
The Inky Way.
Kirby, after seeing his old friend oft:
About 175 years ago Charlie Marter, the latelj-
dead sub. of Sydney Telegraph, helped me to be the
staff of the Napier Herald (M.L.). In the intervals
of brain-sweat on the first evening Harter thought it
wouldn’t be a bad plan to try to get warm by having
a wrestle for a couple o’ sodas. So we put the lead-
ing articles away and got into holts and down on the
floor. It was a prolonged and desperate struggle, and
just as Marter was emitting loud yells of protest
against a foul and the air was full of dust and the
w.p. basket had been upended, the chief rolled in. It
was an eminently sedate apartment, as a rule, and
seeing the staff locked in combat the boss
reckoned murder was being done. Wherefore lie gal-
lantly rushed outside, secured assistance and dragged
the homicides apart with remonstrative language. Ho
was a good old sort that chief, though. He went
West long ago. Now Marter. And somehow the
other fellow- feels very lonely when he remembers that
far-away night.
Name, date and publisher of
the first evening paper issued in Australia,
please. Here in London we are trying to
discover the corresponding facts. The
earliest intimation of an evening journal so
far discovered is dated May 11, 1688, when
Ichabod Danks announced at the end of his
News Letter that he would in future not
publish it “until four or five in the evening
on post nights,” so that he might include
the principal occurrences of the day. His
was a manuscript journal of a type that
survived for a considerable time after the
invention of printing. A rival manuscript
paper, the Flying Post, followed suit,
announcing an evening postscript. Appar-
ently London’s first printed evening paper
came out in 1706 under the title of the
Evening Post. *
Melbourne members of the A.J.A. met
lately at the Press Club to say so-long to
Charley Ross and Fred Whitehead. Ross,
who got 12 months’ leave from Missouri Col-
lege of Journalism to acquire a nrst-hana
knowledge of the Australian inky way, and
has been doing it as a sub-editor on the
Herald, is returning to his (and twlsonsj
republic to enlist: Whitehead, also of the
Herald, is in khaki and about to leave tor
Berlin, via ports unknown. Ross is going
to tpll Uncle Sam that this is (amongst
other things) a land of office-boys and kit-
bags. He has never before in his travels
seen so many of either. #
“G.D."’: Westralia possesses two editors
who are no slouches as orators- Dunn of
Westralian Truth and Curtin of the
Worker. The former is a brother of Labor-
member Dunn, of Mudgee (N.S.W.) : the
latter is a Melbourneite who tackled Willie
Watt in Balaclava in 1914. Dunn was for-
merly on Brisbane Standard, and in 1J1>»
lectured some 20 bishops and 100 lesser par-
sons on social reforms. Curtin is a speaker
of the profound analytical type; the other
chap a satirist who holds the crowd with
mirth while he claws the foe. Both are
tipped for Parliament. Dunn it was who
rattled Scaddan in the memorable by-elec-
tion at Brownhill-Ivanhoe, on October 7,
1916. The pair are bigoted anti-conscrip-
tionists.
* * *
Advt. from Barrier Daily Truth
A mass meeting* of Unionists... . will be held at
the Trades Hall next Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, to
consider: —-
(1) The advisability of diverting the money at
present paid into the Miners’ Accident Relief 1 und
for mine workers suffering from industrial diseases,
and
(2) The high cost of loving.
There will have to be a Wages-of-sin Board,
too, that’s all about it.
“Trooper Bluegum” (from Palestine) :
The recent headline competition reopened an
old sore of mine. At an Easter Liverpool
camp, a few years ago, I ploughed through
mud and slush for hours with the 10th Bat-
talion. Then I went back and churned out
a column for S. M. Herald and headed it
“The Submerged Tenth.” But the Christian
sub. cut out the line and substituted the
trite “Camp Under Water.” Next day the
Sun blazed with the obvious crosshead.
Boyd Cable is a captain now.
Killed in France on May 15. Corporal
J. S. Sherriff, who had crowded a lot of
adventure into a short life. Leaving jour-
nalistic work in London, he joined the Eng-
lish Yeomanry and served through the Boer
War. Being in India when Colonel Young-
husband’s expedition to Thibet was organ-
ised. he chipped in and was one of the first
Europeans to enter Lhassa. Then Australia
p‘,}\ed and he worked on various country
p”apS in Northern and Bananjland
At one period he was editor of thecasino
Courier. The man he uWi * Ms
E. Buckpitt) was wounded in (.allipo i,
successor (A. J. Withers) is now on tin
water heading for the Hun. »
How they get married in Castlemame
( The’bride, who was given away by her
becomingly attired in a bouquet
and maidenhair fern.
The honeymoon is to be. spent in the hills
looking for the editor.
Our frailest Inky Wayf is Birth the jour-
nal of the Melbourne Literary Club. It con
sists of four little pages and a supplement n
small print, and is mostly poems and frag
mentarv sketches. Present editor is Bernard
O’Dowd, who in his lighter moments helps to
draft Bills for the Vie. Parliament. #
From Harry Julius in N’York :
\lek Sass looksspruce after four years of New
York art. He is still unblinded by the white lights
of Broadwav, and though he has been hitting the
artistic high-spots he is still the same Sass that
beamed genial Australian humor in Melbourne. On
arrival, in New York he joined the World art staff
and made daily cartoons for a year, working with
Gordon Ross and Dan Smith. Smith, who is noted
for his sunny pictures of American cowboys, had
been up in Iceland, and as Sass had blown in from
Australian Artist ALEK SASS, who is
making pictures among the skyscrapers
of New York.
Australia the World claimed that it had recruited
its art staff from the ends of the earth. Lately Sass
has been making posters for the Universal Film Co. This
co„ striving to lift its designs from the rut, secured
Louis Fancher, Popini, C. B. Falls and Alek Sass,
and the hoardings have been graced with Sass designs
for Pathe, Famous Players, Pavlova, Marie Tempest,
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Castles, “To-night’s the Night”
and other Broadway successes. In spare time Sass has
joked for Life, Judge and Puck, and has made illus-
trations for such highbrow publications as Harper’s
and Scribner's.
Louis Esson. who left for the country from
which we import our plays and cinema films,
has found a congenial editor in Frank
Harris, who once did a short term at Sydney
Fni., later controlled the English Satur-
day Review and the Fortnightly, and now
does the same service for the American
Pearson’s. Esson has been induced to
spread himself in criticism of some American
Repertory plays. Another of Harris’s pro-
teges over yonder is Jack Flanagan, Norman
Lindsay’s discovery and disciple.
Fred Brown, the Sydney black-and-white
artist who left for the Front last year, is
hobbling home with rheumatism.
* * * *
Frederick Palmer, the American corres-
pondent. likes Bean. “A red-headed blade of
a man,” Palmer says, “who was an officer
among officers and a man among men, and
held the respect of all by Australian quali-
ties.” Palmer says that Bean deprecated
any praise, insisting that Australia is full of
journalists like him, but without his luck.
* * * *
“J.F.H.”: “The Street of Ink" is the
latest book on journalistic London; and the
title isn’t as good as The Bulletin’s “Inky
Way.” The volume is by H. Simonis and
specialises on the personalities of the pro-
fession, with a gallery of 80 portraits. It
is far and away the most humanly interest-
ing book on British journalism up to date.
Simonis, who is a director of the Daily
News and Star, has, of course, a lot to say
about Northcliffe, the most powerful and pic-
turesque personality in the present-day jour-
nalistic world. He starts work, Simonis tells
us, at 5.30 every morning, and sticks to it
until 6 p.m., after which he allows himself
a little recreation until 9.30, when he stows
himself away under blankets.
* * * *
The prohibition of newspaper contents-
bills in England-—a war-economy edict—has
resulted in a weekly saving of 500 tons of
paper. And their absence has not affected
sales to any extent worth mentioning. As
substitutes blackboards are placed ’ outside
the shops, and on them the agents chalk the
most blithering catch-lines.
“BANJO’S" BOOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A volume arrived by the mail to day
From the land of Captain Cook;
X opened it up with a loud ‘“Hooray!
For here was the “Banjo’s' book.
’Tis manv a day since the “Banjo strings
Were touched to a tune of mv heart. .
And work and war and a thousand things
Have wafted us worlds apart.
But I can go back when my eyes are shut
To that hour in the long-lost time
When first I heard in a Darling hut
The ring of a “Banjo” rhyme.
Those were the days when a boy’s heart beat
To the rhythm of life and love,
To the music drummed by a horse s feet
And fifed by the wind above.
And I’m glad that his book got through all right.
Unsunk by a submarine,
For “Banjo” and I can be mates to-night
As we go where our hearts have been.
ENGLAND.
WILL OGILVIE.
DOMESTIC SONNET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wrote a sonnet, dear. But, an you please,
I’d rather be a housewife, baking bread, ' *
Than a pale poet, heaping my own head
With laurelled rhymes. I’d rather shell green-peas
And brim the bowls with creams and milky cheese
For you than carol for the quick and dead.
Xo song a sense of harmony can spread
Like soft, domestic scents of quiet ease.
Sonnets and lyrics lip the laughing days;
But kitchen epics cast their own sweet spell.
Rhjmes - u3e the heart; but when the spirits droop
Plain pie and roast are more than rondelays.
Love, ’twould be mine of happy choice to dwell
Midway between the sonnet and the soup.
JN-S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


fm
ThOMSOM
HOUSTON
Rl/CBV
ENGLAND
general
ELECTRIC C®
NEW YORK
i
ri
S)
a
a
<0
ra
.rnnnr
■9 hxiWS
THE ENTENTE!
„ - , Australia .
England America
B.T.H. MAZDA
G. E. EDISON
(Australian • General - Electric - C?
Wentworth Ay Sydney, Oof Queen & Little Collins St Melbourne.
Thomson Jiouston, O? jOtd £h<s/and
c 6 GENERAL ELECTRIC C 9, NEW YORK.U.S.A. °


A. Saunders’ Fruit Dish, pure silver-plated frame,
fancy floral china dish, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ “Thistle” design Honey
Jar, silver-plated frame, clear glass
jar, with server, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Fruit, Salad or Preserve Dish. Silver-
plated nickel silver frame, fancy floral china dish,
15/6. Others, 8/'G, 9/6, 10/6.
HANDSOME
SILYERPLATE
A. Saunders’ Combination Tabic Centre,
pure silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £4/10/-
V2LT
A. Saunders’ Mustard Pot,
pure silver-plated, with
glass lining, 8/6.
Solid silver, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Salt Cellars,
pure silver-plated, with
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set, comprising Teapot, Sugar and Cream, pure silver-plated, beautifully
burnished. Plain design. Complete with ooyers. Special value, £2/10/-
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
GIFT BOOK.
IT’S FREE
FOR THE
ASKING.
T r*
: 3
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure silver-plated on
nickel silver, A 1 quality, richly embossed and
burnished, detachable handle, special value,
10in„ £2/15/-. Hin., £3.
ALL ORDERS
PROMPTLY
ATTENDED
TO AND
FORWARDED
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, SYDNEY (oi sßk?s"r‘ y
A. Saunders’ four-cup Egg Frame and Spoons,
pure silver-plated, highly burnished, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Bar-
rel, dainty floral china,
silver-plated mounts,
10/6.
A. Saunders’
handsome \
squirrel design Salad Bowl and Servers,
flass bowl, pure silver-plated mounts,
25/-
&
a
y*
Can
Stop that Husky Croak!
SNVA3
antisepticTH ROAT
Pastilles
Sore Throats quickly
yield to treatment which
removes the cause by killing
the germ.
Evans, Sons, Lescher & Webb. Ltd. London.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £4,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act ot Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc,
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De ; Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, l/». Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of tiie Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys’ of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sanoow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook. 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports. 1/3. Diseases op Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins!
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering. 1/2.
Si
m
HOIK’IE CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of
and old, but about which they feel a delicacv in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this srreat work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS. .
W BOOKSELLER TO THE, COMMONWEALTH
Prof. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/S. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Solderins, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
I/S. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping. 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator. 1/-. Thf. Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date
I'3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits 1/- •
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new’) 4/e’
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3 Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1, How McDouuall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses 1/3
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide: 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted
Women’s Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks. 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I‘ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying more
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years
ONEY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
kemit in stamps, money order, or
postal note of any country,
orders sent by return post, no duty,
any BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
1/- H posted M Nkw T P H l , l K l l UStrafed . GuitJ e l ° the Stage,
genuine 1/3 nr n R , S ' VIT “ CaI!DS - 1/- Sappho,
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook GS q 9 1/3 ,? os f’ .„ Dr -
trations, 2/6. AmwotiS ’ a„ 2 pr r actlcal lllus ’
IIP G°l E ide S ’ toTuct 1 f/6 -
Tory C E „ °P ™“r G ' 2/6. Secret His-
Writer 1/ ,f, ' ND) 1/ ? P° st - Lovers' Letter
writer, i/. all Abolt Incubators 1/6 Mon-
gan s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to’ all 'Degrees
iW-^rSi 6 ,r • few
Ed
Assist\nt i /fi m. r , and Sugar^Boilers
Srii’Ki
Fruits of Philosophy, i,“St inn ,F oSted -
tions and Readings i/« P °- *OO New Recita-
CURE 1/9 nosteri' B, ivV 3 ‘ NERVOUSNESS AND ITS
Dictionary. 1700' pages 1600 nw RG ? Lnabridoed
mv nrice ] Z . 00 lllus ” leather bound,
Bo^MAkiNG 7 ,P° D St P l> 3
Electric Motors. 1/2. Moorf’s ’t t ntv™^ AM °a S anu
ant and Complete MfchTnjc n
*£™™c££&2gl
complete). 1/6 po=ted < -" ords and music
fin.. poWa Bd. mi fSSVM» a ?:
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Ch3,p Book Depot. (7 g 69 Markc , s , rcet SydMy
(ONLY)


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
"J* IVOIii THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS S ; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
An Epoch in Vaudeville.
COLOSSAL SUCCESS OF MISS
ADA RtiEVE,
A\ ortd s most famous Comedienne and a brilliant
Vaudeville Co.
■IVORI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MISS NELLIE STEWART
as
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
IN SERIAL FORM.
VAUDEVILLE IN ADDITION.
Prices: 4/-, 3/- 2/- and 1/-.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
England’s
GOOD
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MARIE TEMPEST,
Greatest Comedy Actress, in the drollest
of Modern Comedies,
GRACIOUS, ANN ABE LEE.
H K
GRAHAM BRQYVNE in association.
MA,IESTY’ S, S Y D N E Y
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MOST WONDERFUL DRESS DISPLAY EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
CANARY COTTAGE.
Ihe last word in loveliness and liveliness.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES and JACK WALLER present
LOOK WL-lO’S HKRIi.
A KALEIDOSCOPIC INNOVATION.
Glowing with gladness of the season when the
heart is young.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices : 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
\V. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited tile
UNION picture th ea tre s
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
i"g select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a,in. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER .1. 1). WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
AY. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
yiSITORS TO BY 1) NE Y.
You will want to spend your Evenings to th
best advantage. To do so. forward an addressee
stamped envelope to the “WHAT'S ON?” Adverti
ing Company, A.M.P. Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney
and you will receive by return mail an “Amusemen
Guide,” giving all the Attractions, Pictures an
Amusements at the principal Sydney Theatres, etc.
H
EH MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MGLHOU RNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 14.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive
TIJE MIKADO
AVith a Brilliant Cast.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices-as usual.
■li E A T RE R O V A L, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD. present
CYRIL MAUDE
in his world-famous production of
GRUMPY.
K
ING’S
THEATRE,
Direction J. &
MELBOURNE
N. TAIL
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
AVelcome Reappearance for a brief season onlv
SARA ALLGOOD,
in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE
in
THE STORY OF THE ROSARY
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Majestic theatre. Melbourne.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
BESSIE BARRISCALE,
“THE SNARL.”
And WILLIAM DESMOND
in
“PADDY O’HARA.”
Plan at Allan’s.
M
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICIv.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: Sd. and 6d.
FOR £1 Us. Ud. you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street. Sydney.
iLegal Notices.
He William Francis otherwise William
Frank Grace deceased.
to the Act of Parliament 22nd and
, 2 *! d Victoria, Chapter 35, intituled “An Act
Trusteed” th ® Law of Pr ®P el *y and to relieve
nt £? T *£ E t* hereby given that all creditors and
other pei sons having any claims or demands against
FltAN^f'l’/yFRANCIS otherwise WILLIAM
.dtf wIv A v E °f Brighton in the County of Sussex
on V"' Z ®, al^ nd Engineer deceased, who died
n the 13th day of January 1917 and whose will
,jl p r e n d ,n the Pn "? ipal Plobate Registry of the
frobate Division of Ins Majesty’s High Court of
the 2 , 4 th da - v of March 1917 bv Grace
Sevenoakes in the County of Kent Widow
SnLw m St ' ,cke> ; of 1 Princw Place Brighton
Solicitor the Executors therein named are hereby
required to send the particulars in writing of their
claims or demands to us the undersigned the solici-
, f ° r o the said Executors on or before the 30th
day of September 1917 after which date the said
Executors will proceed to distribute the assets of
the said deceased amongst the persons entitled
thereto, having- regard only to the debts, claims and
demands of which they shall then have had notice:
and they will not be liable for the assets of the said
deceased, or any part thereof, so distributed, to any
person or persons of whose claims or demands they
shall not then have had notice.
Dated this 30th day of April, 1917.
STUCKEY POPE & CARR,
4 Princes Place Brighton,
Solicitors for the said Executors.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 21st May, 1917.
renders for the Supply of Auxiliary
Machinery for Flinders Naval Base.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 24th October, 1917. for
the supply and delivery of Auxiliary
Machinery for Flinders Naval Base. Vic-
toria. delivery to be f.o.r. Flinders Naval
Base.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette.
obtainable at any Post Office, or at the Office
2L the T Direct or of Navy Contracts. Navy
Office, Lonsdale Street. Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
of State for the Navy.
Public Notice.
Hie Atherton Tableland Co-operative
Butter and Bacon Co. Ltd.
APILICAUONS are hereby invited for First-class
Competent Bacon Curer—must understand everv
Branch ot the Trade, including- Small Goods, etc. and
be competent to advise on all particulars in connec-
tion with the Bacon Factory. Liberal salary to the
right man. Applicants to forward copies of creden-
tials, state age and salary required, whether married
or single, and date can take up duties if appointed.
Applications close with the undersigned on 31st July
19i7, from whom any further information mar he
obtained.
A. BENNETT, Manager,
Atherton, North Queensland.
FOR RHEUMATISM AND GOUTY
AFFECTIONS AND OTHER
LOCAL PAINS USE
seim
Ca
horat
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Camphorated
Petroleum Jelly
For sale at all chemists and general stores, in glass
bottles and tin tubes. Refuse substitutes.
Ghesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
The NEW EDISON
stands alone
as a Musical Instrument,
I his new instrument is the result of Mr. Edison's long research
work and the expenditure by him of over half a million pounds
sterling in experiments alone. The Laboratory .formulas and methods
ill
are known only to Edison and a few
of his trusted assistants. No single
assistant knows all of the formulae
and methods by which Edison
actually
re-creates all forms
of music.
Many famous artists have proved
that their voice or playing could not
be distinguished from, while render-
ing in comparison with, Edison’s
Re-creation.
Chatting the other day to a reporter,
Miss Julia Heinrich, Soprano of
the Metropolitan Opera Company,
said: “When I first heard the (Edi-
son) Re-creation of my voice, tears
came into my eyes. I was so thrilled.
It seemed uncanny. I knew I was
listening for the first time in my life
to the real Julia Heinrich.”
This marvellous instrument is de-
lighting music-lovers the world over.
It will delight you. Write at once
for descriptive printed matter,
mailed post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE STORY of
THE ANZACS
X HISTORICAL ACCOUNT of the
xjl part taken by Australia and New
Zealand in the Great War from its outbreak
in August, 1914, until the Evacuation of
Gallipoli in December, 1915.
The opening chapter is a fine piece of
work, and shows the danger to this country
should Germany win the war. It also indi-
cates the freedom and liberty that we enjoy,
and shows that this is due to the protection
we have had from the Motherland, and that
it is not only our interest, but our duty, to
fight to the end.
Five full-page maps and 14 half-page illus-
trations. The maps will he of special value
to students of the Gallipoli campaign.
Price 4 6 ; Posted 4/8.
ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Publishers: James Ingram & Son,
The Block, Melbourne.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; R. R. Russack, Edge-
cliff'e, Sydney; Philip Frankel & Co.,
Edward St., Brisbane; Eyes and Crowle
Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter,
Box 300 G.P.0., Perth, W.A.
<?
V
ron
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(dPILLARINE
No other moustache preparation
produces such excellent results as
CAPILLARINE. Its efficacy is
being daily experienced by hun-
dreds of users. Try a jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 .TAR. POST FREE.
CRAIG U AITKEN, 654 sy c D e^ e st -
Established over 30 Years.
The Reputation
as an ideal dentifrice which Calox
hag gained in Britain and America
is enhanced by the enthusiastic man-
ner in which the Australian public
is receiving it.
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
is a scientific cleanser of mouth
and teeth. Oxygen is liberated im-
mediately Calox is moistened. This
powerful germ-destroyer operates
promptly on all decayed parts. It
purifies and removes the seat of decay.
It frees the mouth from fermenting
food matter, enters every crevice and
eliminates tooth dangers.
Just as Calox is efficacious, so is it
a dainty and refreshing dentifrice
which will be appreciated immedi-
ately it is tried.
GET A BIG FREE SAMPLE.
It goes forward to all who attach
name and address to this ad., and mail
to Calox Dept., Geo. Wills and Co.
Ltd., 480 Collins Street, Melbourne,
enclosing two penny stamps for
postage. Calox is procurable from
All Chemists and Leading Stores.
F 28.6.17.
JOIN up, young man. and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Tw° features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film-
thorough ly cleaned and ventilated between day and night
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to G.
S to 11. Theatre
performances.
IDEAL FILM PLAYS.— The all-British-made Films, showing one week
before any other Theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre.
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
Prices : 6d. & 1/-;
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
fit
CSW'f 5
•HESS
Throat
.
*tagta<r
M*
SsET
UO MOOI** 1 **
; . . -•*:’
free
trial
bottle
Chest
Affections.
Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Infli.pn^n
me^'ca * Profession for twenty-five
as a’standard Emulslo “ ls now universally recognised
bronchitis approved tre atment for colds, coughs
catarrhal afferti tnZa, f a ® tdma ’. consumption, and for all
Angier’s Emnls? nS r ® s P* rator y or digestive organs.
Kmfs , *V° othin S a nd healing to throat,
atinV tonic infl an lntes bues, and it has a most in vigor -
SS “ ,!i e ,? Ce T? } he general health - Pleasant
invaluable hm r c k*ldren or adults, it is an
invaluable household remedy for chest affections.
ANGIER CHEMICALCo’ LTD P ° Stag rV and ment!on this P a P er
LfD ’, 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W,
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Hughes—Mumble.” That was his tele-
graphic address the other day. He went up
there from Sydney for a week-end to com-
pose some more speeches. It seems a bit of
bad luck that there is no Fumble for Brother
Pearce to rest at.
It transpired last week that in his finan-
cial statement made six weeks previously
Treasurer Bigjohu had missed the bull’s-eye
by a foot or so. Instead of spending out ol
revenue £38,804,311. he managed to get rid
of only £30,804,311. Wherefore Bigjohu
feels that the position is “substantially bet-
ter” than he had expected. But why talk
about what was paid out of revenue? bar
better talk of what wasn’t paid out ol
revenue last year, but will have to he got
and paid in the years to come.
Governor Stanley (Vic.) was heard the
other day publicly “wondering whether he
could not be more adequately and busily em-
ployed in some other job.” The Bulletin
has nothing against his Ex., but it puts it to
him as a man with a family to provide for
that the time is ripe to knock off speculating
and find out. It would be an inspiring spec-
tacle for Australia to see Stanley divest
himself of his Cocked Hat and. kicking the
gaudy symbol of something or other into the
dust-bin, denounce the wearing of decora-
tive millinery as heart-breaking toil to which
no man should be condemned. Then if the
nation heard of him selling off the furniture
and motor-cars and shifting into a suburban
villa and taking a job at award rates, his
election into the Senate at the top of the
next poll would be a sure thing. Anyhow, it is
no good a man merely wondering whether he
can get a full day’s useful -work in Aus-
tralia. The very least he can do is to con-
sult the local Department, of. Labor.
Vic. Board of Health has done good ser-
vice in forbidding the establishment of two
fellmongeries on the Yarra at Richmond,
and the local council has supplemented its
formal protest by declaring that “a grave
responsibility rests upon the press that in-
fluenced the Board.” The Bulletin accepts
its share of the grave responsibility with a
smile. Herewith are .some of the Council’s
reasons for its “protest”:—
That one of the chief lessons to be learnt from the
present war is the danger of foreign traders getting
possession of the markets of the Empire.
That the fellmongering industry, being one that
has been entirely in the hands of the enemy and
other foreign nations, should be encouraged and so
established in Victoria.
This implies that prohibition of a smellful
industry on the banks of a beautified river
in a crowded centre is a discouragement of
a natural industry in outlying districts,
where it would not give offence to thousands
of citizens nor counteract the good social
effects of the Yarra-Improvement scheme.
As well “protest” that a refusal to allow
a dynamite factory in Bourke-street would
be tantamount to a refusal to permit the in-
dustry to come, into the whole wide Com-
monwealth.
A GOOD PRECEDENT.
“The King, on visiting the hospitals and hearing
that a number of women and children had been
killed, remarked: ‘It makes your blood boil. They
will do anything’; and in bluff sailor language his
Majesty said what he thought of the Huns.”— Cable.
THE BEAK : “You are charged with using had
language in a public place; what have
you to say in defence?”
THE BLOKE: “I was just follerin’ the King,
yer Honor.”
Hughes propounds a poser:—
Let peace come; withdraw the borrowed money •
bring back those 300,000 men and throw them oil
the labor market, and where are you?
Where the Freetrader Hughes put us, of
course. In the soup. But isn’t it about
time Hughes started to show some contrition?
Loudon is more logical. You can t buj
liquor after half-past nine. But you can t
buv chocolates, sweets or tobacco alter eight
—or 9.30 on Saturdays.
THE GERMAN SISYPHUS.
THE KAISER: “I dink dot fellow Sisyphus
vos have von easy shob comhared mit
dis von now dot last chock vas gone.”
Hughes at Sydney (8/7/T7)
Men of Australia —enlist, do your duty! Or the
waters of the ocean will rise up and close over us.
And if they don't enlist? Is he going to
wait till we are all drowned in our beds and
then make a speech at the Resurrection?
Apparently there isn’t any law in the
State of California governing the custody of
“abandoned” bank deposits. But that doesn’t
stop the State Superintendent of
Banks, who has got a little list
of £141,800 of deposits which he
reckons the State has a better
right to than the people who at
present hold them. For a start
lie has begun actions against 04
banks to recover £25,302 lying at
the credit of accounts which
haven’t- been operated for 20
years; and when he succeeds, as
everybody expects he will—if not
this way, then by direct legisla-
tion—it will be more difficult
than ever for the proper authori-
ties in Australia to go on evading
action.
This being a time when every
penny counts, the illogical
National Council of Women
(Vic.) is trying to have a State
Board of movie-film censors
appointed to go over the ground
already hoed by the Federal
Censor. If the Federal Censor
isn’t hoeing the ground properly,
then he ought, of course, to be
spoken to. But for the States to
appoint censors because the job
isn’t, in their opinion, being done
thoroughly is as ridiculous as it
would be for every municipality
to appoint a censor because it didn’t reckon
the State was to be trusted either.
Even while the country is fighting for its
existence the old game of party politics must
still be played according to the fixed rules,
so Vic. Labor-leader Elmslie launches his
usual futile no-confidence motion. Doubt-
less when Elmslie has made his few simple
moves and been duly checkmated the Eco-
nomy party—Bowser, leader—will do its
brief dash, and then all hands will smile
pleasantly, say they have had a most excit-
ing time and settle down to do nothing
Elmslie has just returned from Hawaii
where he observed the local Parliament
domg its business in a cheap, simple and
effective manner, considering bills on their
merits without regard to Government or
party; but the lesson seems to have been
wholly wasted on him.
The formation of new parties is the chief
political amusement in South Aus. at pre-
sent. The Vaughan party has met_ and
decided to retain the word “National,” but
to drop the “Labor.”
Also it pots out two
platforms, one for use
during war-time, the
other which includes
abolition of imported
State Governors —for
afterwards. A Producers’
party has also been
hatched, alleging that
manufacturers and lab-
orers between them win
all the consideration that
is going. And a new
Sports Club, getting it-
self comfortably estab-
lished with a banquet,
seemed to think that it
would have to organise
itself into a “Liberal
party” to dig in its heels
and hold on against the
prohibitionists and other
wowsers. So, altogether,
things are getting along
nicely, and the time
seems to be coming when
the ideal will be realised
and no party will con-
sist of more than a couple
of people, or three at
most.
The line from Ival-
goorlie to Port Augusta,
which is taking on an
unexpected importance in
view of the shortage of
shipping, has been cov-
ered by Willie Watt,
Federal Minister for
Works, with the engi-
neers and a S. Austra-
lian Parliamentary party,
in seven days—inspect-
ing by day and camping
by night. Watt talks of
having it open by the end
of September, and run-
ning through from Perth
to Melbourne in three
days and nights. The problem ahead, he
insists, is water. But he “saw no desert, as
most people understand it, on the whole
route.”
“Copabella”: I was writing up a new
war industry for my daily the other day—
and a very important, necessary and inter-
esting war industry it was, the only one of
its? kind so far in Australia. “And how do
your prices compare with the old German
stuff?” I asked. “Oh, about treble,” he
answered. “Oh-oh!” I said. The manu-
facturer indicated the chimney stacks,
towers, tanks and vats of his works with a
sweep of ithe arm. “We’ve spent £15,000 in
putting in this plant. The day peace is
declared it may become junk through the
old conditions of world-competition again
setting in. Or it may not—we don’t know,
and the Government does not seem able to
give us any information on the subject. We
are therefore calculating on a three years’
war—three years’ life for this industry—
and getting back our £15,000 during that
period. What else can we do? We can get
no guarantees that the high wages we pay
will be protected against low-wage stuff
being dumped upon our market by the thou-
sand-ton the instant the last sheli is fired in
the war. We have had three years of war —
and what has been done to help set any new
industry firmly on its feet? Profiteering?
Call it that if you like, but—how else are
we to recoup ourselves?”
A VITAL QUALIFICATION.
McTAVISH : “Frae ma experience, Meester
O'Toole, it seems t' me tha’ a Scotchmon
dreenks far less tha’ an Irishmon.”
O’TOOLE : “I’ll agree wid ye, McTavish—
whin th’ Anti-Shoutin’ Bill’s passed!”
THE HERESY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dream that fires the poet’s brain,
The skill that guides the ci-aftsman’s hand,
The love of native hill and plain
That knits a freeman to his land,
The rights won hardly by the brave —
He these thy gods; none else can save.
In days of old a frugal folk
Held firm the soil on which they trod,
They tamed the wild beast to the yoke,
And drave the plough, and brake the sod,
And there amidst the springing corn
A virgin commonwealth was born.
No alien rule oppressed the land,
No lord took toll of vine or fleece,
lint dreaming brain and patient hand
Grew skilled in all the arts of peace,
And equal laws were made for all
By freemen in the council-hall.
And no man’s goods were filched for spoil,
And no man’s dreams disturbed by debt;
Their sleep was sound from sober toil,
Their bread made sweet, by labor's sweat,
And each took joy in all he made,
Or scythe, or song, or fighting-blade.
Then goodly seasons came apace,
And all the land grew fat with wealth,
Tiil sloth slunk through the market-place,
And usury crept in by stealth :
So when at last decay began,
From out the ruck there rose a Man.
With lyric voice and honeyed word
He turned their eyes across the sea,
And showed them how the naked sword
Could win them ease and empire,
With tribute rich in gems and gold
From conquered States their arms would hold.
No more a frugal folk they’d wait
To feed their herds by homely streams,
He was the Man ordained by fate
To build the empire of their dreams;
They thronged around him in a ring
And brought a crown and throned him king.
What though their empire grew apace,
What though the land with blood was dyed !
No homage of a conquered race
Could glut their new imperial pride,
Till in the end they felt the sting:
Themselves were conquered by their king !
Through all the lands his will was law,
He seized their goods to serve his need,
And through the years his minions saw
Their sons enslaved unto his seed:
Where once the freeman reaped his corn
A cringing helot-race was born.
In vain their long, heroic fights!
In vain their youthful blood was spilt !
Dismayed they saw barbaric rites
Performed in temples they had built,
And alien gods they once had banned
Grew mighty in their native land.
And so the ancient choice returns—
When sturdy strength has ceased to be,
When Freedom’s fire but dimly burns
And fools distrust their liberty,
The wavering lips of weaklings can
Breathe but one prayer: “Lord, send a Man!”
Lord, send a Man! Our minds distraught,
In their own power can place no trust;
Our brains are too fatigued for thought,
Our pride is sunken in the dust ;
Now tired of liberty we long
To yield our souls unto the strong.
Oh, feeble folk ! The prayer you urge
Its toll of bitter fruit will bring,
Till wisdom, bought of rack and scourge,
Shall break the power of knave and king,
And every child throughout the State
Shall know what makes a people great.
The dream that fires the poet’s brain,
The skill that guides the craftsman’s hand,
The love of native hill and plain
That knits a freeman to his land,
The rights won hardly by the brave —
Be these thy gods; none else can save.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


PALING’S PIANOS
and PLAYER PIANOS.
It is better to be sure
than sorry. “Buy your
new piano or player
piano at Paling(*s,’* and
you can make sure of
getting satisfaction.
Every instrument
sold by us carries our
well-known guarantee.
We are experts witb
over 64 years* experi-
ence. Just tbink of tbis
vast experience and ash
yourself, “Can I afford
to do without it?**
I
f
' :
111
EASY TERMS IF DESIRED.
Old Pianos taken in exchange at their utmost honest valuation.
We sell Pianos, Player Pianos, Organs, Violins,
Banjos, Cornets, Flutes, Harps, Gramophones,
Phonographs, and Everything Musical from a
Violin String to a Full Set of Band Instruments,
Catalogues Free for Asking,
We Have a magnificent
stock o/ Pianos and
Player Pianos. DeligHt-
fully - toned instru-
ments selected by our
experts specially for
use in the Australian
climate.
Why not call to-day
and inspecfl them ?
Catalogue and par-
ticulars are free.
Please write for them
to-nigHt.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD.
338 GEORGL STREET. SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba and Lismore.
WOLSELEY
At present the Wolseley Works are on
war service and unable to supply pri-
vate customers, but we shall be pleased
to add your order to our waiting list,
to be fulfilled when we can resume
deliveries.
Agents:
F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
KELLOW falkiner MOTOR CO.,
Russell Street, Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY,
Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
Tm
Vr
WOBSEEEY MOTORS KIMITED,
ENGLAND.
Proprietors: VICKERS KIMITED.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works : Birmingham! England*
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
2 Necessaries
for Every
Household :
Cornwell's Extract of Malt
Cornwell’s Pure Malt Vinegar
1« The best Tonic and Body-
builder for Children.
2» The most savory and purest
Malt Vinegar for Adults.
Obtainable All Grocers,
Stores.


_ After all that compound of wayward emo-
tions the. Russian people, inspired by the
rieht spirit, are following their right leaders
to the right goal, saith that other right spirit
King George IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Man—the Britisher especially
—is a clean animal. He de-
lights in his bath, his spruce
appearance, and his every
morning shave. Millions of
his race have adopted the
-*JZZ3ZZZZI2Z
NO STROPPING MO u
NO STROPPING NO HONINO
for keeping up that tradition
of spruceness for which he is
famed. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, E g.
TRADE
MARK
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
:
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
appointment
TO
h.m. the king.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Placing restrictions on racing "in order to
win the war” is merely an exhibition of the moral
cowardice that has allowed racing throughout Aus-
tralia to degenerate into a scandal. The thing is
overdone to an extent for which the only possible
excuse is that the country has been on a prolonged
jamboree. Dirty little racing clubs flourish all over
the land. Enormous profits roll into the pockets of
individuals who run racecourses for what they can
annex at the gate. For every well-conducted sporting
club there are a dozen that are run for private profit
in some direction and a score that are mere ramps.
For every first-class horse racing there are 50 squibs
whose presence on a racecourse is. a joke. It was not
to get into this sink that racing was started in
Australia, nor to breed a multitude of guessers and
ponv dopers that the thoroughbred horse has been
cultivated. To a very large extent prevailing con-
ditions are the result of political and economic
follies, and they may cure themselves when the
nation gets sober. But that the surfeit of racing
Australia has had for many years has done incalcu-
lable mischief is obvious to nearly everybody—cer-
tainly to every genuine sportsman. There is more
racing in Australia than anywhere on earth—more
money raced for than anywhere else. Australia less
than almost any other country can afford it.
* * *
With the installation of the tote in N. S.
Wales questions are cropping up about the horse
which might run second and pay a dividend but is
not hurried up by the mannikin on top. There are
two interests here in collision —those of (1) the
owner who does not want to have his horse brought
under notice of the handicapper, and (2) the punter.
The issue is not new, for place betting has been
going on since long before the tote was thought of.
Tlie plain duty of a racing club is to cater for the
fair deal and insist that every horse shall be ridden
out. This does not mean that horses shall be pun-
ished when they are hopelessly out of it, but it does
mean (1) that no horse shall get hopelessly out of
it by design, and (2) that every horse shall be induced
to get as near the winner as possible. The practice
of withdrawing a prad from the fray instead of arriv-
ing second or third is daily practised and can only
be described as a fraud on the public. The job of
keeping horses out of the coJd-storage department
altogether is probably hopeless; but the job of
sitting on the rider who suddenly becomes afflicted
with an attack of inactivity opposite the stand is
neither difficult nor superfluous.
About £BOO a race went into the tote at
Woorefield (Sydney) on Saturday, and the turnover
C. t 5311), though trumpery compared with what was
entrusted to Israel, represented a record for the State.
Three-fifths of the money was contributed by the
paddock, but on one race the dividend on the outside
machine was nearly twice as big as inside backers
received. This happened on Lady Clarit in the
Kogarah Stakes, the dividends (for 10s.) being
£7 19s. 6d. ancl £l3 9s. 6d. Something of the
same kind happened to backers of Estaban, who ran
second in the Stewards’ Mile. Tickets on this nag
issued in the paddock were worth £3 13s. 6d. ;
outside, £7 2s. 6d.
* * * *
“Friar Tuck”: Although a legalised total-
isator is a novelty in N. S. Wales, tote shops were
a-flourishing in Sydney 25 years ago. The first was
run by a man who, under the name of “Leger,”
opened his joint in a small tobacconist’s shop in
George-street West, opposite St. Benedict’s Church.
A full-share ticket was 10s. Ten per cent, of the
money subscribed was kept as commission, the re-
mainder being divided amongst hackers of the placed
horses, on a 50, 30 and 20 per cent, basis. The
tote on each race closed half an hour before the
advertised time of starting, and cards were immedi-
ately printed—on the premises—showing the number
of subscribers as well as the number on earh horse.
Business increased at such a rate that the pro-
prietor, who, by the way, was one of the whitest
men who ever lived, took another and more central
shop, in the old Opera House buildings, King-street.
He installed telephonic communication between the
two shops, and the business from both was pooled
and made up as one tote. It was not long before
this man had competitors, but there was room for
all. The boom had set in. The five-shilling and
half-crown totes soon followed, but the greed of
promoters brought these into disrepute, it being
discovered that they were in the habit of having the
scratchings wired from the course and erasing nearly
all the numbers of the non-starters that had been
backed. This, of course, cannot happen with a
machine. Some of the old-time tote men are still
going strong. The pioneer did not live long to
enjoy his wealth, but one of the men who ran the
“Sterling” tote passed out onlv a few years ago,
leaving over £42.000. The shops were eventually
swept away by a tidal wave of public indignation
expressed in an amendment of the law.
* * * *
Place fieMers are being kept together now
at Flemington in a line of their own instead of
being scattered about among the other Ikes. The
idea is, that this will lend to keener competition
among them, and better odds for the public. It may
turn out that way, but the observations made by
this page on a Sydney suburban course where the
brotherhood are close together suggest a feeling of
pessimism on the subject. The certain thing on
Sydney courses is that place-betting is legalised im-
posture. Of course the public can decline to be
shorn, but it is preposterous that the racing clubs
should be a party to it.
* * , * *
A nag that may bo heard from again won
the Stewards’ Mile at Moorefield (Sydney). This is
Bridal March, by Bardolph—Orange Blossom. Since
winning a Novice Handicap in Anril at Randwick
from a fair field Bridal March had done nothing’ of
importance except run close un in a couple of
suburban events. On Saturday with 7st. lib. she won
with half a dozen lengths to spare. Bridal March
has 6st. 91b. in the Epsom. Hitachi (7st. 91b in
the Epsom) was also a winner at Moorefield. Carry-
ing 7st. 61b. he showed the wav home to some food-
class performers. A yarn went around before the
race that he was lame, so it seemed about time for
something to hanuen. Unless he goes lame in earn-
est Hitachi is liable to win again.
Australia’s old friends Kilboy and pasamiff
were landed at Sydney from a Maoriland steamei
early in the week. The useful little mare Bee ha
also turned up again. With the nags
sent at l oss this makes about a dozen and a ha t
horses from over yonder. As a rule, the < *
landers do fairly well hereabouts— mamlv because
thev are judiciously placed. But this tee the
plentiful English-bred horse may make the aigumeni
more interesting. „
* * *
Twenty-one horses went out for the Giand
National Hurdle Race and 15 finished the journey.
Three of the unfortunates that didn t were among
the half-dozen chosen by The Bulletin. Fastolt
was the first to come to grief. Then the favorite
Pistolier, after going more than two miles in great
style, hit a hurdle and lost his rider. And finally
Roval Precedent, who looked to have a winning
chance at the time, ran off at the last hurdle, thus
blighting the books’ hope of a turn-up. The other
three of The Bulletin “picks” finisheo first, second
and fifth. In a fast-run race—only 2sec. over the
record—the light-weights made all the show. Six
furlongs from home Hayston, Royal Preceden..,
Macnaughtv, Nick-a-Jack, Bundong and Merunqua
were still in the front division, where they had been
from the outset. Hayston was the first to tire, and
Lord Grey was the only heavyweight to come into
the final competition, although Van Homreigh also
forged his way out of the ruck towards the finish.
At the last hurdle Bundong had a slight lead of
Merunqua, Macnaughty and Nick-a-Jack, a_na the
crowd rashly assumed that Connolly s good thing
was bound to win. But be was already doing his
very best, and there was still time for anything with
a little more steam up to come and wear the leader
down. Merunqua was the one. The son of Carbinier
outstaved Bundong exactly as he had done at Caul-
field a fortnight earlier. Meanwhile Lord Grey, the
almost white horse, had made a run wdiich he
couldn’t sustain to the bitter end. The veteran fin-
ished third, a neck behind Bundong, who was a
head behind the winner. Van Homreigh came a
respectable fourth, with Niclc-a-Jack next. Last year
Van H. finished second just in front of Lord Grey,
who was now “placed” for the fourth year running
—two successive seconds and two successive thirds.
He will not be too old to get placed again next year.
The first three events at Flemington last Saturday
had most exciting finishes —-the sort of finishes that
set sober punters thinking what folly it is to take
a short price about anything for a handicap race in
which nearlv all the starters have a chance. The
Maiden Hurdle, to be sure, was a weight-for-age race,
and the two that shot from the field were the first
and second favorites. They finished that' way. The
mare Sylvene promised to run off with the rape until
imported horse Polygamist, who had been jumping
badly, rushed up to her at the final hurdle.. They
had a great battle down the straight, each in turn
getting a slight advantage. The mare won by half
a head, to the disgust of handsome Polygamist, who
had apparently been trying- to savage her. He tried
to win by a bite. In the 'Welter race, whiph fol-
lowed, half a dozen horses were in a line 10 strides
from the judge’s box, and the placed ones were said
to be separated by half-heads only as they passed
the judicial line of vision. Next came the G.N.
with its head-and-neck decisions.
The Maiden Steeple was an alarming joke as usual.
Three out of 11 starters got round the Flemington
course. The favorite, who would have won by a
furlong or so, toppled gracefully over a fence half
a mile from home, and the nearest of the pursuers
also came to grief, after which a despised outsider
lobbed home. It was a ease where backers of the
winner lost a lot of money for want of the totali-
sator.
The lameness of Rendrock (scratched) has robbed
the G. N. Steeple of one of its few interesting features,
but there is still material enough for a very open
race. The two youngest and fastest of the dangerous
ones—Old Mungindi and Oaibye—are more than likely
to come to blows with a stone wall or nasty fence,
whilst among the more seasoned performers there is
nothing conspicuously brilliant. With due diffidence
the writer suggests a quartet of possibles—Kuda,
Icon, Cobram and Renong—and takes Kuda to do
the dangerous trick.
* * * *
The biographers of Darcy are getting to
work and the public will soon be able to read about
it all. This page has a suspicion that the work will
have a bigger sale than the biographies of any
dozen other Australians who could be mentioned.
* » * *
David Low made a fine caricature-drawing
of Les Darcy some time ago. The owners of it have
given it to France’s Day, and it will be on view
(to be sold by auction) at Mrs. Macleod’s stall at the
corner of King and Castlereagh streets —where the
Sydney Daily Telegraph sits or stands or lies or
whatever it is.
A wily old bird is Fritz Holland. And a
guileless youtli is Albert Lloyd. Wherefore when
these twain did meet in Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day Albert had a narrow escape of being hvpnotised
and passed out. As it happened, Fritz took the
sedative instead. In size and weight of wallop the
bald-headed gentleman was at great disadvantage,
but for seven rounds he did pretty well what he
liked with the enemy, stalling him off, bluffing him
and giving him hard, meaty smacks. Llovd, who per-
sists in leaving his head in the dressing-room, was
continually on the reverse gear and three times Fritz
had him done to a turn when the bell intervened.
In the eighth collision he was doing him some more,
but just on the tick left his chin open and Lloyd
shot in a short hard right. That ended it.
* * * *
Messrs. Wave Geike and Tommy Rvan
transacted a little pugilism at Brisbane on Saturday
The 20 scenes were crowded with incident. In the
eighth the affair became picturesque, a gash under
Thomas's left eye adding color to the landscape.
Geike had an extra 41b. This he deposited sincerely
on his rival’s carcase. A few brilliant flashes by
Ryan gave the imnression that without the flaw under
his. optic he would have made the proceedings more
exciting for the Bananalander. As it was the per-
petual Geike added another scalp to his tally His
next collision will be at Sydney with Mr. Sid Godfrey.
* * * *
N.S.W. coursing men are gathering up
their pups for a trip across the Murray to the Water-
loo Gup meeting at Werribee Park. Bennett, of
Rooty Hill, is taking Beauty Snot and her little
brother Batlow; a reverend gentleman and Tom
Murray will be accompanied bv Bride’s Beauty and
Achieved. Other dogs to make the journey are
Tommy Dodd 11., Thrilling Deeds, Corsair (imp)
and Grand Crystal. They make a hot team.
Doubts about how Beauty Spot would perform this
season—she had bad luck last vear in one event
didn’t induce many people to risk their cash against
her last week. She was a runner at Rootv Hill in
the Champion Cup, and from the first calling of the
card the books unanimously stayed behind barbed
wire. They were wise in their generation, for the
living ladv met and beat in succession Attained,
Dame Quickly (Metropolitan Cup wl " n "l pr an .v as C ° o
sair In each course the best price on offer was n
to 1 on. Saracen, sire of Victor ®
Corsair, and White Hope, who begat Beauty Spot,
are brothers. „
“John Quill”: How’s this for a record
hare? It weighed 161 b. and was shot by Jack
Mclnnes on his property at Trunkey, near Carcoar
(N.S.W.). An ordinary hare weighs from 51b. to
81b. Mclnnes sold the animal’s skin for a shilling
to a dealer, but could not induce him to believe
that it was a hare’s overcoat.
* * *
Randal McDonnell, of the A.M.C., one of
the latest to win a military cross in Flanders, was
in the school champion crew at St. Ignatius s College,
Riverview, 12 vears ago, and after going to Sydney
Uni. rowed stroke in the winning crew (St. John s)
in the inter-college fours and also stroked the win-
ners in the inter-state ’Varsity race of 1907.
McDonnell, who comes from Forbes (N.S.W.), went
to the Cold Country for specialist study at Cambridge
after getting his medical degree at Sydney, and
enlisted in England when the present trouble began.
* * * *
Killed in France, Paul Milton Freyberg,
yachtsman and one of the “fighting Freybergs” of
Wellington (M.L.). The best-known of the family
is Brig.-General “Tiny,” V.C., D. 5.0., and probably
Britain’s youngest general. Another brother, Oscar,
killed at Gallipoli, was one of the finest open-sea
yachtsmen M.L. ever produced. Paul tried to enlist
for the Boer dust-up, but his indifferent horseman-
ship stopped him. However, the judicious placing
of £4 got him the position of potato-peeler on a
transport, and he enlisted (aged 17) in an irregular
mounted corps. He was 6ft. 3in. and his heart was
the biggest part of him.
From recent casualty lists: Second-lieut.
W. Dixon (killed) pulled on a jersey with Queens-
land in inter-State Rugby. Captain H. Smith (killed)
had a place as fast bowler in Australian cricket.
He was a Queenslander. Lieut. W. F. Colman
(killed) helped Glebe (Sydney) in first-grade cricket.
Captain L. L. Richardson (killed), a Sydney C.E.G.S.
boy, stroked the school’s eight and captained Rugby
XV.; he changed the Light Horse for an aeroplane
and got the M.C. recently. Clarence Todd (wounded),
a limb of a tennis family from Trundle (N.S.W.),
helped Horace Rice to win the Australian “doubles”
at Brisbane in ’l5.
Frank Birtles left Adelaide last week w r ith
a motor-ear and a camera. His plan is to work his
way across to Perth, keeping near the sea —-the
Eucla track —and taking pictures for an American
magazine. This business done, he will return for
pleasure, trying to beat the Fraser-and-Armstrong
record of just under nine days from Perth to Sydney.
His brother Clive accompanies him. According to
Frank, this may be his last motor-trip. He has
a flying-machine waiting in Victoria, and hopes
some day to do the cross-continent trip on that,
without going round by Adelaide and Melbourne for
the sake of good roads.
* * * *
Indian papers are talking of a new motor
spirit prepared from the flower of the mahua tree,
which flourishes all over India. It is alleged that
several makes of motor vehicles have used the
strange liquid with satisfactory results; and it
costs only half as much as petrol.
Charles Basil Buckley, 36, married, is on
to the Kaiser’s back wheel, having enlisted at Mel-
bourne Town Hall early this month. Buckley once
held the world’s cycling record of half a mile in
57sec., afterwards lowered by Major Taylor, cullud
genTman. Also Buckley dead-heated with Albert
Clinton in the Federation Handicap at the Exhibi-
tion, and was third in the Australian Cycling Cup.
He reckons he has won £5OOO in prizes, and hopes
yet to lead the field in the scorch to Berlin.
* * * *
Cross-country running isn’t holding its
own these strenuous times. When Botany Harriers,
N.S.W.’s leading athletic club, turned out on Satur-
day for its Junior Championship there was only one
solitary biped at the start. On being liberated lie
solemnly jogged over the distance in 331mins.
* * * *
Walter Lindrum’s recent defeat of his
champion brother Fred indicates that he is nearer to
the time when he will go up top than he seemed tp
be when Fred licked him so unmercifully a few weeks
ago. In this last 18,000-game, which Walter won
by 1500, there was little to choose between the
brothers as regards their mastery of high billiards.
The younger was almost as brilliant as the champion
at the top of the table, and of course he was more
consistently good all round, or he wouldn’t have won
by a lot of points. Walter made 60 breaks of a
century or more, as against Fred’s 59. The winner’s
best was 490. The loser’s best was 503 and his
next biggest was 423, six other breaks averaging
about 280. But Walter scored 21 goes of over 200,
in addition to his highest. The game was a fine
exhibition. There has been no other case of two
brothers being up to the Lindrum standard. John
Roberts is the son of the Roberts who was pre-
eminently best when billiards’ was in its infancy as
an art, and the brothers Bennett of old were notable
contemporary players. But no two chips off the
same block have been jointly comparable to the
Lindrum boys.
* * * *
“Eryander”: All show-shooting (B.
28/6/’l7) is not trick-work. When Dr. Carver, in
’7B, broke 5500 glass balls, he fired, in 7£ hours,
6212 shots—not only wonderful shooting but cruelly
hard work. He used the .44 Winchester (6 rifles),
weighing 101 b. and having a 481 b. recoil, so that in
the day’s work he raised to his shoulder over 31 tons,
and withstood, in recoil, very nearly 150 tons the
working of the lever being further estimated at
110 tons.
* * * *
The acclimatisation of the quinnat salmon
in Maoriland waters is a fact at last. The sea-run
animals have been seen this year invading the Wai-
taki and proceeding to the spawning: grounds in
droves As a sporting fish the quinnat, unless tackled
with light gear, is of only moderate quality, and as
tucker at ranges from fairly good to ancient cinders.
To get decent fishing the water has to be clear, and
the filler V , al Bk i hls happens orlv occasionally,
the fish are likely to keep the rod well beaten. Inci-
dentally the life of the spawning salmon makes an
interesting story. The fish fights like a demented
cannibal from the day it leaves the sea until, Saving
generation! ith°s a hmeraf. 6 f ° Undations of anoth <*
“Sardonyx”: Though only about half the
close-time is over, there is promise of prime sport
next season for N. S. Wales trout-fishers. The rapid
increase of trout, both rainbow and English, in the
upper waters of the W. and S.W. flowing rivers, is
credited generally to the coolness that favors the
fish's multiplication. But it is also largely due to
the fact that trout will not seek the sea by way
of the warmer and more turbid waters of the lower
courses of these streams towaids the Darling and
the Murray. The upper waters, however, are in-
fested bv the cormorant, and a campaign against
this marauder is needed. Both the big black corm.
and the white-breasted shag, besides being incredibly
voracious, destroy many more fish than they can
devour.
“Te Babarantiko”: Most Central Pacific
islanders are as keen on cockfighting as the Central
and South American dago, or Javanese and Celebese
islanders. When the cockfighting mania (they are
bitten regularly with a mania for games, ranging
from card-plaving to kite-racing) is virulent, loosters
are carried from one village to another to fight
other harassed birds. Once, at Tammaiaki, I hap-
pened to be the possessor of the best fighting cock
on the atoll—a beautiful, unusually large white Leg-
horn rooster, active as a katanianti (wildcat of the
bush) and with a pair of curving spurs effective as
bayonets. He had every cock on the island down
and out in the first round. Those candidates for
championship honors just looked at his supeicilious
face and cold eye, then turned and made startled
noises as they ran. Karianako, the chief, offered
me two sacks of copra for this Jack Johnson, a
rousing price where a bird was ordinarily worth
about sixpence in “trade.” Being young and foolish,
I declined to sell. Two days later I found the cham-
pion lying on the edge of a babai swamp, unmistak-
ably clone to death.
* * * *
At Yass (N.S.W.) last week Charlie
Massv, holder of two Ma State Gun Club champion-
ship medals, commenced to murder 140 pigeons in
an hour for a side wager of £25. Using six guns
and doing his own loading Charles finished the
butchery in 24J minutes, and it is said established
a world’s record. Six men concealed in a pit
liberated the pigeons for slaughter. An excuse for
the ghastlv performance was that the proceeds went
to France’s Day: £44 15s. lid. was raised, a spin-
ning jenny contributing £l9 Os. 6d.
■»•»**
A yarn that George Reid didn’t tell in
his reminiscences, probably because he had never
heard it. When George went to England for Vic-
toria’s Diamond Jubilee, the Marylebone Club gave
him the free run of Lord’s, on the strength of a
nominal connection with cricket in Sydney. Of
course, the glorious news was flashed oversea, and
Maryborough (Q.) Chronicle, finding “Reid honorary
Lords” among its telegram flimsies, spread it thus:
“The Right Mon. G. H. Reid has been made an
honorary member of the House of Lords.”
“Wandi” : Extremes of drought and flood
bring new ways of getting fish. When the water
in back creeks and holes was drying up we caught
plenty with our bare hands. The water was puddled,
and as soon as it got fairly thick with mud the
fish rose to the surface, when, by plunging the hands
under them, it was easy to throw them ashore. Once,
after a heavy rain, we found the water overflowing
at the lower' end of a big lagoon and running over
a grassy flat into an anabranch of the river. The
overflow averaged about Cin. in depth, and big
mullet and perefi were kicking across the flat in
hundreds. We built a wing with logs and bushes
from one side of a bv-wash and then rode in to
yard fish. Riding one at the side and one behind,
and lashing the water with long sticks when the
fish tried to break, we shot them inside the wing,
thence into the by-wash. When we had yarded a
couple of hundred we blocked the mouth and later
we returned with a horse and cart and scooped them
up with wide stable forks.


THere is a Way to
Perfect Health?
That way is open to YOU. Will you travel it?
The only way to improve Nature is through natural
methods.
Drugs and apparatus usually show no results, and are often
injurious. Under my method fifteen minutes each dav in
■four own room are sufficient. I have thousands of students
in all parts of Australia and Nfiw Zealand who are now
enjoying good health. Previously a large number of these
people were sufferers from indigestion, constipation and
other disorders which are the direct result of the internal
muscles being much below normal.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best'of health? Then why
not write to-day for full particulars of my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture?
This is proof of what I say:—
“Dear Sir, —I am getting along splendidly with my
exercises. My weight has increased 151 b., chest expan-
sion llin., waist lfin., calf fin., forearm iin., neck
lim “(Signed) J. 8., Bodangora, N.S.W.”
Many hundreds of letters from pupils all over Australia and
New Zealand are in the same strain.
T should like you to have my booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF CULTL'RE,’’ which tells about
my methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address
across this ad. and send it to me, with three penny stamps
for postage.
REG. L.
(‘Snowy’)
BAKER,
The AlNround
Champion Athlete
of Australia
629 Belmont Buildings, Sydney.
0
Si
Try This Dry Cell
IF you need current to ring
bells; to operate telephones
or signals; light lanterns or
portable lights—if you need cur-
rent to run a gas engine or a
tractor, a motor car or a motor boat —
you should try Columbia Batteries.
Columbia
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries which
can be used for either heavy or light
work. Columbia Batteries have higher
voltage and amperage than wet cells.
No liquid to spill; no glass jars to break.
Designed to meet local conditions.
They are durable and dependable—
protected by moisture-proof cartons.
Packed to reach their
destination in first-class
condition.
egs§o,
FOR
&
<al iG-n
sHfaetured
m
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland”
SAMSON HORNS.
Every Motorist Wants a Good Horn, and they
get it in the “SAMSON,” which can be used
in five different positions.
No. 35 “Samson-Tiger” (11" over all), 25/- each
N 0.36 “Samson-Tiger” (Motor-cycle), 24/6 each
No. 45 “Samson-Lion” over all), 21/- each
N 0.46 “Samson-Lion” (Motor-cycle), 21/- each
The above Hand Horns Post Free anywhere in
Australasia Vibrator and Motor Horns from
16/-. Ask for Catalogue No. 3008.
RAMSAY SHARP & CO. LTD.,
217 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Write for Appointment as District Agent.
"the spirit”
OF THE WAR
THE ENEMY OF
BRITISHERS
ENEMIES.
In
Condition
liLi
BENZINE
IS RELIABLE
& h
4
HEL
*3*B
In the Out-back—these are \
the ways of bygone days.
The Modem Way is on
0
THE WORLD’S GREATEST MOTORCYCLE
Catalogue “D ” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd..
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd., 156 Castlereagh St.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Aaency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79 Pirle St.
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd , Charles St.
PERTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Hay St.
: t < j
British -Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
all Mills,
. übe Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
vs
A
The Taxi Driver Will Tell You
EXACTLY how much extra, mileage he can get to the
gallon by using National Benzine. He can give you
absolutely AUTHORITATIVE figures, because his
machine registers his mileage down to the finest fraction.
He will also tell you that
NATIONAL
BENZINE
is the MOST RELIABLE spirit—assuring
“quick and lively” starting, maximum speed,
and the “topping” of the stiffest hill.
Clean in Combustion —powerful in driving force
—economical —“National” Benzine will show
ITOUl T OU better results —whether you run Car,
Commercial Vehicle, Motor-Cycle, or petrol-
driven Farm or Factory Plant.
ALL GARAGES & STOREKEEPERS CAN
SUPPLY NATIONAL BENZINE.
NATIONAL OIL CO., 4 Bridge Street. SYDNEY.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Victoria Square. ADELAIDE.
4
VI
M
il^
Evermore
Smile
aiIKIMIISKBiaHSI
a
You know this smile—but do you know -
EVERMORE
STROPPER
Price 15/-
The only automatic Strapper
which the true Slyde-Stroke
so essential in sharpenir^any
raipr.
Special adapters are provided
with each Strapper /or the.
sharpening of any make of
safety-razor blade both si nse
and double ec^ed.
Scv.
/Arrows shovy’
l Diagonal
Arrows ano»\:
Diagonal
Cou*sP of
Ask Your Deakr
io Demonstrate k
m DOWN
pr gpetPovrfwhan
} tend ixtfls Xi?:Sx|:
GOING OF
fcrrprffoe* Up
when tvtfht H<jnd
r' h
F UNPROCURABLE WRITE BOX- 1003 G
)R BOX 14 GP O AUCKLAND . NEW
TO. SYDNEY
ZEALAND * *


1
STY'S
3*
i
%
"they say I am
mightier than
the sword!”
“ Only the soldier need*
the sovord nowadays, but
everybody has need of net
/•or I am the Onoto—
peerless among pens."
Tbe Onoto simplifies wri-
ting. It writes with smooth
precision from first to last.
It is the one really satis-
factory self-filling pen.
Grvoto Pen
the “trusty” pen.
The Onoto is British made. It is designed to
last a lifetime; and is guaranteed by its makers.
14/6 and upwards, ofall Stationers, Jewellers,
and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd.,
181, Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representatives
NORMAN BAKER &* LONGHURST, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Ask lor ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your lirer—healthy or clogged, active ot
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PJIAS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
SKF
Ball Bearings,
Radial Types.
Single Thrust
900 Series
Flat Seat
Single Thrust
700 Series with
Aligning Seat and Washer
Double Thrust
’ 1900 Series
Flat Seats
%
Double Thrust
800 Series
Self-aligning Seats and Washers
Double Thrust
1700 Series
Self-aligning, Self-Contained
Single Thrust
500 Series
Self-aligning Seat and Washer, Heavy Dui
GARDNER, W£RN
& HT -
Melbourne 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane 369 Queen Street.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it -will be posted to you for one year.
r~
>
' yn'
f
—ditaJLfail nm nltTf
1 SUKIUM
We Have a Roofing
for Roofs that are Flat
—a permanent roofing that will not rust, as tin does or
crack and leak as tar roofs do. For the roof of your store,
porch or other flat surfaces we recommend fire-resisting,
rot-proof, leak-proof and permanently satisfactory
Pronounee<f*RlP as tn «| fflfitt
COSTS MORE -WEARS LONGER
It's unequalled, too, for peaked
roofs, and will look well and wear
well on your home, bam and other
buildings.
We have sold many rolls of
DU'BER-010 without ever a com-
plaint. Our customers tell us that
|tU*BER'OIQ gi ves perfect satisfac-
tion wherever it is used.
gHJ-BER-OIQ roofs put on 20 years
ago are good for many years longer.
ru-eer-ojO wears longer than
cheaper roofings because it is made
of better materials. It contains no
paper or wood fibre to rot, nor tar
or asphalt to crack or melt.
/Come in and let us quote you
prices on RU-BER-OJO and Colored
|IU-BER*OJQ (Ka-lor-oid) —Tile Red
and Copper Green. We have the
genuine, with the “ Ru-ber-oid
Man” (shown above) on every roll.
Agents: "E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
KINGEOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBIN SON & CO. RTJ)., Melbourne
A. W. SANDEORD & CO.. ETI)., Adelaide.
h-—'x^*^
Hispi
KWK!K!3CSJ®f®f
SSsjjiis-®
ifll
lilf*
rdi
Ssf - 1
su >
?.i
mwm
tmmm
m
u ,■
.
mm
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have beer.
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece,' Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Vhosferine
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h?s received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes: —
“I have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons’ Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.’
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D., C.M.,
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
with 51 ?' nit* ° f F-° ndon * vrould appreciate your courtesy! if, being served
subsUtute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street.
Melbourne, w hen the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the i cost of postage
j refunded to you. I | **
Choose a "Swan.”
Ihe comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"Swan safety"
The
Soldiers’
Pen
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request
MAtilE, TODD & CO., London
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): j
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
» Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
T n L th i lt the P e °P le should have
is that WE mTy PT^ al i Se T fl '° m the olltspt
is tnat MAI GET A LICKING We
still may get a licking. 4re you going to
cf t/ie Ravisher of Belaium win without
lifting a hand?
Though he has been ordained 50 years
Father Ivelsh, parish priest of Westbury
(Tas.), is native born. He arrived at
Hobart in 1843 and learned his lessons in
St. Joseph’s School and St. Mary’s Semi-
nary before going to the Propaganda Colleg
in Koine. He was a foundation member ot
the Tas. University, and is the only member
of the original council left.
It’s a wise child that knows its father.
Henuiker Heaton’s second son was a middy.
Dad asked him why his letters gave no in-
formation about the navy. Son (crisply) :
“No, thank you. Too many fellows have
been ruined through their fathers asking
questions in Parliament.’’
“W.F.” reminisces:—
Jimmy Landboom Mirams was a junior master at
a school in Fitzroy (Vic.) in the ’6o’s. The late
Col. J. M. Templeton was headmaster; afterwards
lie founded the National Mutual Life Association.
When he moved out Mirams started in the stationer}'
business in Smith-street, Fitzroy, and got himself
on the committee of our Congregational Church. Till
then the parson used to “mark” the pulpit Bible in
the vestry and have it replaced before the people
assembled. Jimmy altered that. Thereafter the
Bible was kept in the vestry till everyone was seated;
then the vestry door would open and Jimmy would
appear bearing the Gospels before him, ascend the
pulpit, steps and reverently (plop) place the Good
Book on the big red cushion. A calm and saintly survey
of the rear wall of the church and a solemn retirement
ended his part of the service. The congregation used to
hold its breath till Jimmy had disappeared. A
prominent figure in that church was old Johnny
Fawkner. the only male person with head covering.
I have Johnny’s make-up clearly in remembrance-
long, lean face, sunken cheeks and eyes, very white
side whiskers, long coat, stock and cap. I have seen
the latter referred to as a skull-cap. It was really an
embroidered smoking-cap with tassel hanging over
the left ear.
Yic. is to have a crop of new Parliamen-
tary candidates at the State elections. John
Carlisle, of Yarrawonga, is to be attacked
by Laurence Corboy, a local farmer. A. E.
Cook is to make a second attempt on the
life of David Smith (Bendigo West), who
fell out of the Labor party owing to a dis-
agreement over the Scripture-referendum
proposals. James MeMeel, printer, will try
to knock out music-seller James Deany, to
whom Warrnambool went in rather a lucky-
way on the death of John Murray. The
McMeels are an ancient Warrnambool clan
and James is a native of the district. And
J. L. Murphy, secretary to the Metrop. Fire
Brigades Union, w-ill arrive in the shoes of
Owen Sinclair, whom he quite unnecessarily-
defeated in the Labor-selection ballot at Port
Melbourne.
From a senior officer in France: —
When the Battalion left Australia in 1914 it
had the slickest machine-gun section in the A.I.F.
Lance-corporal Percy Black and Lance-corporal Harry
Murray were just two gunners. They held the fort
at Pope’s Hill when it looked all Europe to a pinch
of dirt that we would be pushed off. But we were
not, and it was pretty well due to these two lance-
corporals that Jacko gave up trying. For their share
Black and Murray were given D.C.M.’s, “mentioned”
and promoted second lieutenants, Murray being trans-
ferred to another Brigade battalion in the gun
section.
The two continued through Gallipoli, being each
“mentioned” again, promoted lieutenant and recom-
mended for the D.S.O. —which they didn’t get.
Then to France as captains, and in the
bloody battles of Pozieres and Mouquet Farm both
were recommended for the V.C'., but got instead the
D. 5.0., and were “mentioned” some more. Black
gained his majority in addition, thus securing a
slight lead on his rival and best pal. So they went
bn till fortune again favored Black, who was awarded
the Croix de Guerre. But Murray was not deterred ;
he plodded on, and at Gueudecourt was awarded his
trebly-earned V.C. Then Fate turned down a
gallant soldier and good Australian at Bullecourt.
Percy Black died on the Hun wire, killed by h bullet
from a machine-gun. Murray is still going strong—
he is now second in command of his battalion.
These two records will take a lot of beating, the
only one likely to approach it being that of Captain
Albert Jacka, V.C., M.C., also of the Brigade.
This Brigade has been at it from the jump, being
in every fight from Suez Canal before Gallipoli, the
Landing, Suvla Bay, the Evacuation and through
every battle in France. Consider the decorations
conferred since leaving Australia: V.C., 3; C. 8., 5;
C.M.G., 5; D. 5.0., 28; M.C., with bars, 2; M.C.,
52; D.C.M., 48; M.M., 187; bars to M.M., 15;
Russian medals, 5; Servian, 14; Montenegrin, 5;
Italian, 4 ; Croix de Guerre, 5 ; Medaille Militaire, 2 ;
Legion of Honor, 2 ; Belgian, 3.
‘ Cyanide”: In the early days a mining
title was a simple thing, founded on the
broad principle of the right of a discoverer
to hold his claim so long as he legitimately
worked it. Small details were subordinated
to this, and the would-be jumper who at-
tempted to take advantage of small over-
sights and inadvertencies had a frail chance
iu a Warden’s Court. Nowadays, and
especially in N. S. Wales, pettifogging tech-
nicalities, such as size of pegs, depths of
trenches, procedure in filing claims, etc.,
have been brought well to the front, and
the basic principle of “work it or drop it”
has been_ relegated to the background. A
\\ arden is looked on as clever if he can
“out” a legitimate applicant for a lease
whose holder has deliberately broken almost
every condition of it; and as the whole busi-
application bristles with unnecessary
details, it is almost impossible for the ordi-
nary man to fail to omit one of them. A
lease may be held for years by some para-
site who has no intention of working it but
an applicant may be fired out because’ one
o: his trenches is too or a post
slightly too long. The same Warden who
will grant repeated suspensions of labor con-
ditions to a mining shark who hasn't the
remotest intention of doing any work will
fire a would-be miner out on a technicality,
after treating him as if he were a sneak-
thief for daring to come into court and ask
foi the unworked claim. The somnolent and
invertebrate Department apparently considers
this the right way to encourage mining.
What is wanted is a demolition of the brio-)
brae known as N. 8. Wales mining law ’a
recasting and consolidation of the useful
features, and the recognition of the fact that
Wardens, of all lawgivers, should exalt
equitable principles above pettifogging de-


•773
> 6
H* *
"7
*•3
p
A*
y • '-9 S j^.
~./j
' <vP/ ~
ft
0
*=v
K»\
*(. V
J.
Y,
f
>r a
\f'J
xt
W
m
»H
C
SL,
° 3b «V\u
ti&
liii
o.
Jnw
M
=*v ?
ar
/
✓
✓
ww*
AWAY WITH PREJUDICE!
The prejudice against the locally-made article has been broken. At least, so far as Meggitt’s Linseed Oil is concerned
this is true. To-day we receive letters from the farthest reaches of Australasia assuring us that Meggitt’s Linseed Oil,
made in Australia by Australians, has no superior on the world’s markets.
PAINTERS, Help to Build Up a tSolid Australian Industry
by insisting on MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL.
From all Stores, or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MECGITT Makes
its Mark.
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.


. V
Guard the Babies
Australia needs them all
From about the age of four months, at which
teething troubles begin, great care should' be
taken of the baby and the process of dentition
carefully watched until it is complete.
Irregular and excessive feeding, and the improper
Puality of food should be carefully avoided.
lenty of fresh air is essential, and a high standard
of general health should be maintained by giving
FISHERS
Teething Powders
Guaranteed not to contain Opium, Morphia,
Calomel, nor any injurious ingredients.
Always keep them ih the house and give as
directed if any of the following symptoms occur.
Restlessness, Sleeplessness, Feverishness, Hot,
Swollen or Tender Gums, Sickness, Diarrhoea
or Constipation.
All Chemists and Stores: Boxes of 20 Powders,
1/-. Boxes of 60 Powders, 2/6.
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
FJOTP 337 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. N. S.W.
#FISHER’S\
TEETHING
POWDERS
■l/a
2/e-j
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing’ Auri’sts of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
1
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
, , ... and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free , or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 CiEORQE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
A Perfect
Custard.
(The NAVY BRAND.)
%
K
a
35
Powder l
vanilla j
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & co„
Pore Food Specialists, SYDNEY.
A, M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.,
BRISBANE,
Sole Queensland Agents.
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane's leading Hotel now; in fact it s
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINYTCcvr
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite r IN blit.AN
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
Explaining “Feminine Charm”
By MILLICENT BROWN.
Illustrated by PENRHYN STANLAWS.
I NOTICED a curious thing recently in
a railway train. A nicely-dressed
woman entered, and took a seat beside
me. I saw that everyone was looking at
her —staring, in fact. But
not offensively, you under-
stand. I caught my-
self doing the same
thing. It was
impossible to
help it. Cer-
tainly it was
not her
said; “I remove my skin.” “You what?" I
exclaimed, horrified. Again she laughed, and
replied, “Sounds shocking, doesn’t it? Bui
I will explain. Instead of using face creams
I use only pure mercolized
wax, procurable at any
chemist’s. The wax
has a gentle absorbent
action which
takes up and
removes the
soiled and
weather-
iT.
/m
)
KeY&fr
I
3
P*s
*
*
{*»<£
m
&
£2\
St
yy<%
U
a
*-S
K>
sf
»\»
-<
€\
vj*
It
3
7
<T3
i^q%
*6
ars
&fedgaiw?
£2,*
Stan I*^
beauty of
feature that
held the eyes
of all, nor
was it her
costume. But
there was
something about her
face and expression—
I risked it, and spoke.
“Would you mind telling
me,” I said, “how you keep
your complexion so dazzlingly pure? You
won’t think me impertinent, but you seem
to be over thirty, aren’t you ? And yet you
haven’t a line in your face, and your cheeks
are quite peach-like. Do tell me how
you do it.” She laughed, quite good-
naturedly. “Oh, that’s very easy,” she
beaten outer
film - skin,
withoutpain,
irritation or
d i s comfort,
thus reveal-
ing the real
complexion fresh and
clear underneath.
Every woman has a beauti-
ful complexion underneath,
you know. Then, to keep
my face firm and free from wrinkles, I
merely indulge in a sparkling face bath two
or three times a week, which I prepare by
dissolving a little stymol (obtained at the
chemist’s) in a bowl of warm water. This
also keeps away those unpleasant little
blackheads, and prevents ‘shine.’ ” [3
1
you
•yJmfE'
THREE
SCORE EVERY TIME
SHIRTSCOLLARS* PYJAMAS
—Made By Peapson Law Lt? Richmond, Victoria.
BAD
LEG
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
and PILLS are the
great English remedy,
within the reach of all,
in all cases of Bad
Legs, P oisoned
Wounds and Hands,
Ulcers, Carbuncles,
Muscular Pains, Bun-
ions, Snake and Insect
Lites, and will save
lancing or cutting.
English Prices, 1/5. 3/- 4 5/- per box
S “ res and CHtmists andTvh-Usa.by
ELL w T h soul’ t»™ ONY nORDERNS’,
W ' »1.0-r U „ L ’. pATTI NSON &CO
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
AT k Co., 73, Fxrringdon St, London, E.C. 4
Missing- Friends.
frank graham.
"INFORMATION is required as to the
nw„.T here ? bo I lts of Frank graham, for*
.*\ Ambleside, Westmorland, who
m, lgl f te s Australia about 28 years ago.
last Rtter received from him by his
L T A f , wntten Rom Brisbane, and he
en stated he was about to go up coun
I,charge of cattle. He has not since
he wi shes to benefit under
i* y he i’ s W he must send in a claim to
us bptore the 6th March. 1918. Anyone who
* IV ? ny information is requested to
SO\“ Sr 4-, Wlth GEORGE GATEY &
England ° llClt ° rS ’ Ambleside > Westmorland,
,T and you will help
out about a permanent peace. Stay
to tbe chances are that you will have
WdiC 5 " 1 ’ to 011 *<">
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice ( except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R.D.T.: What sort of Australian do you
call that? Next time you toward a contribution
don’t jamb your lines so close together—type them
on top of one another and they’ll do just as well.
. ...P.H.C. (S.A.) : Received... .J.R.K.: Thanks....
Ashton: Well, a man who would do that, this paper,
by its full Executive, would cheerfully hang
E.H.S.: “When a man throws up a good home and
possibly a good wage or position to enlist as a
private, he should be thanked and not treated like a
gaolbird.” Quite right. Also when a man brays
through his thistles he should be harnessed for the
cart. .. .Hokey Junior (France): All right. Good
luck./. .L.N.S.: Too wordy; and don't write pn
both sides of the paper until we send you a wire to
try it Bellerive: They’ll surely make you an arch-
deacon, too, after this: —
THE DRINK MANIAC.
He raised a chair and lie’s eyes did glare,
Heavy drinking had drove him insane.
“Serpents of hell,” he did fiercely yell,
“Hence or I’ll rent thee atwain.”
He's terrified wife did fly for her life,
From the grasp of the maniac,
Who whirled the chair in frantic despair,
And cried “Demon's, I’ll drive yous back.”
He gnashed he's teeth, did laugh and weep,
When two constable’s bold broke in;
He did struggle and writh in their iron grip,
And shrieked “Free me ye fiends of sin.”
Under lock and key he grew calm as could be,
Into a reverie of gloom he did sink.
Untainted by crime stricken mad in he’s prime,
From the fatal influence of drink.
R.M. Held for inquest. Get more directness
into your work Lestor: Can’t have prose masque-
rading as verse unless it does it with a gibe. . . .
W.C.K.: When did you write “Were I a Rose” for
The Bulletin? A Bulletin “reader” knew the
words seven years ago... .E.M.T.: Get some ink....
U.K.: Not up... .E.L.: No U.S.: Not enough in
them. .. .E.L.S.: “Moses” yarn wants sand-papering.
. ...E.R.S.: No use... .C.: Too rugged.... G.L.T.:
Well written, but obvious... .T.W.: Putting down
commonplace words without method doesn’t make
verse.... 8.J.5.: No yarn in it... .L.M.R.: Won’t
work... .D.D.: Sony; but it misses all the way....
E. 8.: Neither up... .L.H.E.: You’re likely to be
Rejected for some years more if you can’t do better
than that.... Sirnooe: We'll chance this much of it:
As I was sitting in an a nucha ir with a rug around
my knee,
A pretty dainty maiden came bouncing up to me;
She pinned a feather in my coat and it was as white
as snow,
Then she remarked, “ 'Tis for cold feet that every
one may know.”
Well, now, I thought her grammer rotten,
As you see I had not quite forgotten
That T left one leg and knee
Far off on Gallipoli.
And it puzzled me that such as she could put
“Cold-feet” when it should have been “cold-foot.”
. ...T.T.: Fine example of trying to say something
when you have nothing at all to say. .. .A.P.1.: It
dizzies weakly along to arrive nowhere... .W.G.T.:
No interest. .. .Kuaka : Too slight....Meregrot: All
fail. .. .Eocene: Not our StyIeV.M.H.S.: It’s prose
all right. . . .Candeille: Not exactly thrilling. .. .
Gallag: Blank verse that halts and is never poetical
is mere weariness.. . .Love Me and the World is
Aline: You’ve caught Alexander Pope’s note —and
improved on his pompous inanity... .One of Them:
Wallows. . . .H.E.R.: Delightfully lucid. One stanza:
I know not who he was—and yet,
Locked in my breast, in trust, his name
Unseen hv me —I do not fret
Who he was, why, and whence lie came.
By way of explanation we might add:—-
I think—but that—is so, if he;
But any—yes —with other care
Forgets—but that white memory—
Besides—together—rats—the heir !
.T.D.: Verses not 'up. If you want copy back
you must enclose stamps M.M.: The heart throbs
all over the place in defiance of metre and decency.
....M.: Too ragged... .H.A.T.: Dreary argument in
bad verse.... K.K.: Theme too worn... .C.L.C.: Not
quite. .. .T.J.L.: Does that aeroplane never come to
roost? It was rejected long ago and yet you add
worse and worse verses every week L.J.H.: Verse
is as bad as handwriting; and that's saying a lot.
W.B.: Avaunt! It isn't poetry, scarcely even
verse. . ..M.W.: The “Old Home” is dull prose....
J.W.P.: Thin, commonplace rhyming... ,WD T •
Lame in all its feet... .A.G.C.: Lamentable. . . ,A.b! :
Not up T.C.M.: This paper didn’t sav one word
derogatory to the late Beckett, M.L.C. What it did
say was that “at a time when so many younger fel-
lows are facing death in a matter-of-fact way it
seemed hardly necessary [for the Leg. Council] to
make a song about the heroism of an elderly Leg.
Councillor who had died in his bed.” Evidently
from what you say of Beckett (that he “made light
of his sufferings and-spoke of the lack of nursing
and general comfort experienced by many sick men
at the Front”) it was,exactly the sort of paragraph
he would have written himself.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.C.: It is feeble and sounds old 1.M.L.: Sent
to the Home for Aged and Infirm Japes... .D.S.C.:
Too obvious... .C.S.: This must be the week for the
Veteran Gags’ Reunion D.F.P: Too wooden
Stremp: Beginner’s stuff. Cannot criticise in detail
here or write letters. But it is promising enough
to be worth encouraging.
Archdeacon Clampett. a valiant little
South Australian parson, caused a stir at a
church fete some weeks ago by ordering off
the premises a photographer noted for his
anti-conscription sentiments. The photo man
refused to leave, and insisted that he had the
right to snapshot the proceedings. The war-
like churchman, whose sons have been fight-
ing from the first, maintained the right of the
individual to refuse to be photographed, and
is the anti refused to walk out he was
passed out. A sequel was provided last week
, ?u- nv< “ ll rade of the Police-officers
letinng this month. The usual photographs
were being taken. Chief-Secretary Style!
genially posing n the front rank, When the
same photographer was seen focussing hi«
camera on the group. To the mild surprise
of the onlookers it was not until the man
was waved off that the group allowed iSSf
to be snapshotted. It is all very wrong of
Sto n"' T1 ">- the


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP
HOME
-At
the War
P£c-r.
l\
%
nHv
V
A
Si**
JSw,
\
I
.rs.
n
5.
s
■ ?
.-••'
fiii
i’" i '
2W
AM
s«#
A
Ti
_e, \ WiA
MM
s
WJS
Bf
f
yTrVr
*ll
iS
s?>>
MmmM
■■: r-v. ■ .
S 3
SI
'
wMmtmsM
A~
IX
®SS
•Shi
.ifr'
A
5®
3£
% ! >!fP
2
&3S?
*3
k •
Sss^
w&,
rA
m&fm
®§Si
%
vAXS*
ISSS
Sgasra
• *•
/2£i»
I®'^'
/53&
1 ■ '"
9IMK
MG
irafesssfl*, Aj?t
wmM?.
m
ys&
mm
S' jfS
ffi
fspisps
AW^fsV&mm
* JF J&f .&.&>•■
A JGa*ir&
■si
\
j
ri-
m'
mn
mm
m
«m
sm'K
rWmm
&mm
a
i'j i MBBkmmm
$/■?' ,i
S : ~>■ ,
Jis?
/&. &
!' &' Xf ;V j!S-’ .*PJ*
* *>’■ jf .'A «> / l-Y- (
mm
m.
mm
:■
ZM
”• IMBBt ‘A-
*'/ f'jsP&jUf** A-i-F i't'xeS
jfa&\
i -;..;’ >r>‘.;-; k .w./jCfF, , .\ ; ~<>,
.a '%vv£;xk:Jfe.
imM'/fM
y£
s.
:i?
_(? <#•
Wmm?*
v 4
immm
1 ■>«•' *•' r-t-‘ vfelV*ss* ’■ 1
SKi5
J&Wi
Ks
a&
mb
>x-
J^Si
> <•;
:#i
< r ,i-;vi-,ii
3kr
. m-
c=^\^s )
’•vA : ;-
-V' ;
;
. ■ ■■
W&L.. . \
fcsa
- .
.-> -
>.'&»
fAAAMaiiM
£••?•••
5?K^
mmssms
A-t*--.?3-
mttmm
r
'•
S^g
::•'
WM
■
A':;
■A A
**&£&*>
P* .
\ . ,<#•
'-i-'/'-As-j
JK I
A
****
'smzm
kfi&SS&fi.
M
m
•l r
; i
.C" ■■'
u
o,
L.
'^lAr^vi-j/^
M
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim hoo,
Brings the captured
Huns in, too.
Here they are —
A sullen band
Sick of their
“Dear Fatherland.”
They have seen
The English guns
Flatten out their
Brother-Huns.
Full oi (ear
V ' 0
And smould’nng hate,
“Cobra’s” cleaned them
Off the slate.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apnlv
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
'■tel. — City 4240, 2,4, 6 Spring Street.
4810.’ Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons').
Leaves Sydney, July 14.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, July 18.
Leaves Sydney, July 21.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, July 25.
Leaves Sydney, July 28.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A.andAV.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, July 21.
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars re. Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY ; The Ron.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, lvt. (Deputy Chairman) :
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St.. E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated tinder the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq •’
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
II EAT) OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, Qimited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. ICater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox Fso
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs Q '
General Manager: IT. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
i„^ ranC A heS t * rou K hout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of Hem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
£529,988
750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
it n a j» d^P , , 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest tor
fixed periods and
transacts all other uaual Banking huameaa.
QEORGE hotel.
•St. Hilda, Melbournii
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “AXE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIHS, GREAT ' '
NIAGARA FAXES, Etc.
MONT HEY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific. ”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Ho’ day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
V
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth "Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers-
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ,j 9 Bridge Street.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
i
£3,894.980
£2.800.000
£3.894,980
£10.589.960
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. Fosbery, C M.(j , M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
l. Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
HoS^° t , eo-Qeorgro St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St, EC
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nee-o-
t,ated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the Worfd
-T- RPSPELL FRENCH. General Mansger
w
I
HEAD OFFICE
ss?
JBank° [ Bustralta
SYDNEY. I
Open
■for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia. London. Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
( ' at> ‘®., remittan . ces niadc to. and drafts drawn on foreign nla'-es direct
•*- a*S'i',pp?o r v r 3VS£ op “' d ' ,n “™“ p “ id »
Savings Bank Department
Interest at
per annum
r **-pua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Depot? Governor. June 1916 ~
Jun e l_l9lt__ DE.VISO.V MILLER. Gorernor
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
3%
FARMERS S SETTLERS' LOANS
"* prepa,ed t 0 re “‘« »•*•>•>«*«»»* »p to £750 on the
mont Leases";
fe B ¥2H C £JT” - - Ho^tria^;
by
Rate of Interest, per cent.—Loans Repayable
Half-Yearly Instalments in 31 Years.
a. JTS' %T‘ Head offi “ W Er “°<* of the Bank and
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Saving Institution, head Office; i 1 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNg
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
MOBIALTA, Saturday, July 14.
■RUPARA, Saturday, July 21.
PAR I .VGA, Saturday, July 28.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Fort of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YIIILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
A IVI ER I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP C 0„
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdnev and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
■yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company 8 magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination 'tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 B>. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
. , LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up p i iqa rto
Reserve Fund ! Hl’, ooo
Directors: HARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. UYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. 4
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, S\ DNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street),
r " ana 9 er - M - B - Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
A » 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles,
after suffering over 40 years.
cases
some
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY. Woy
" °>' N.S.W., Sole Propr.
P er Roy, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Fi ’ee.
Under Plain Cover.
° n i a , le o , at , all Leadin ? Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
\ LL AL STRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitish Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tiana and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British AustbalasiaN
Leading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tlw
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Here Is a Roofing
Better Than Iron
HERE is a heavy mineralized felt roof-
ing which outdoes galvanized iron. It
is known and specified the world over as
®r
i urn
■o
i; nm
318
Certain-teed
■M—«———mm™— nHHOBBaRBB^a
Galvanized iron is harder to lay than
Certain-teed. Iron radiates heat —
Certain-teed insulates against
the passage of heat.
Prices of metal roofings have ad-
vanced tremendously— Certain-teed
is still moderate in cost. In first cost
and cost per year of service Certain-
teed is the most economical roofing.
And it is fully guaranteed.
See our local representative soon
and get further particulars about
Certain-teed Roofing.
Mr. C. C. McCann Perpetual Trustee
Bldg., Sydney, N. S. W., Representative of
Certain-teed Products
Corporation
Proprietors of: Gregg Varnish Co.
General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
M°und City Paint & Color Co.
Wholesale Distributors.
NEW SOUTH W ALES: John Danks Son
Ptv. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: John Danks & Son Pty Ltd.,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: James Campbell A Sons Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: McLean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 104 Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: W. Halt & Sons, Charles Street, Launceston; Tattersall & Co. Ltd.,
Wilson Street, Burnie; T. J. Cane & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street,' Hobart.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
T . j , . . Established 1849.
Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
iiuctors. Horn AW. Meeks M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; lion. R. J.
vtn *’ ru„ L ' n'- ; H .°": Sn ' B " rm ’ K-C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox, Esq., ICC. ; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. Consulting Actuary; Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
. ~. w DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
s’nJtTf ° r ° nC 'f'’ l 9 ' ' £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ~ . £21,560,000
y,Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
’’ nte ‘ or prospectus and full information without delay.
Hi
pK
m
The New
Symphony
Orchestra
under the distinguished conduc-
torship of Landon Ronald, has
won high renown for its rendi-
tions of the world’s best music.
This famous British Orchestra
records exclusively for “His
Master’s Voice,” and the bril-
liant playing, generally consid-
ered to be without equal, is
reproduced wonderfully by
His Master’s Voice Records
We quote a few of the many numbers:
0717 Peer Gynt Suite (Morning).
0845 Cortege de Bacchus (Syl-
via Ballet).
0753 William. Tell—Andante.
0831 Zanetta—Overture.
0828 L’Arlesienne Suite.
0803 Carmen—Prelude.
0082 Figaro—Overture.
05523 Concerto, Part 1., Greig.
05524 Concerto, Part 11., Greig.
Complete Lists, instrument catalogue
and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
0681 Midsummer Night’s Dream
—Scherzo.
0735 Merry Wives iof Windsor—
Overture.
His Master’s Voice
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET
—SYDNEY.
The Secret of a Successful Shave
is now admitted by those who have given the matter
careful thought, to depend almost entirely on the kind of
shaving soap used. After three years of experimenting,
Msnnsrfc
SHfIUIMC CRSfIM
has stood the severest tests, and shown itself to be the
ideal shaving medium.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES
Enclosed in a
collapsible tube,
it can be kept
clean and asep-
tic. Concentra-
tedandfreefrom
caustic, a very
small amount
will produce a
rich creamy lath-
er that will not
dry on the face,
or burn the skin.
It will soften the
toughest beard
withoutthemus-
sy “rubbing in”
and the “morn-
ing hot-water,”
that were, here-
tofore, consid-
ered essential.
Antiseptic Rapid
Economical
tM
/'/aKVi
sh^S
c Rif* Ml
CHEMICRI c«
ft
$
'mm
gs %'S
r
n
/
/
y
/
:JLkI ,>
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
17 Victoria Str eet, W eilingt on, N. Z.
&
C°
Name
Address
G. MENNEN
CHEMICAL CO.
Enclosed please
find penny stamped
envelope for free
sample of Mennen’s
Talcum for Men.
City
ABBEY
SHOES!
Men who realise that a smart and
correctly addressed appearance is
an ASSET should wear ABBEY
SHOES.
They are made in all the latest
models, and their long service
makes them economical, as well as
distinctive.
Being made in half- and full-sizes,
and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide, we are able to
guarantee a perfect fit.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow
Calf Bal PR I COB 37/6
Also in Patent Coltskin. with dull
Calf Legs PRICE 37/6
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between (i. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
•' -- . T. M. UIKKN, ,
Contracts have beep let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
Forest-inspector Swain told an audience a
few nights ago that of 429,000.000 acres of
land in the State a bare one acre in every
400 is held as a permanent reserve. This
brings in something like £lOO,OOO yearly at
a cost of £7000; the balance, instead of
being reinvested in forestry needs, goes for
other purposes altogether. Having thus
made his department appear anything but
sane or honest, Swain went on to announce
that it was intended to appoint a forestry
staff, establish a forestry school, and set up
forest experimental stations and nurseries.
Incidentally, there is an eleventh-hour agita-
tion to save the beautiful red cedar, one of
the best soft timbers in the world.
SAYS PHOSPHATE DOUBLES
STRENGTH AND HEALTH.
Numerous notices have appeared in the
press from time to time telling of the re-
mark'able benefits to be derived from the
regular use of bitro-phosphate instead of
drugs and medicines. Investigation show*
that bitro-phosphate , which is obtainable of
any good chemist, enjoys its great popularity
because of its peculiarly valuable property
of quickly restoring the strength and vitality
of the depleted nervous system. Neuras-
thenia, nervousness, sleeplessness and physi-
cal and mental weakness are almost invari-
ably due to a starved nervous system. This
condition can only be corrected by supply -
ing to the nerve centres the necessary phos-
phoric food elements, the lack of which has
caused all the trouble. For this purpose
specialists almost invariably prescribe tak-
ing with each meal a tasteless 5-grain tablet
of bitro-phosphate , which, while being ines -
pensive, js undoubtedly the most remarkable
nerve-builder and restorative of health and
strength known to medical science.—Anvl.
VALUE
... THIS IS THE
Bushman Rug
The Biggest Guinea’s-worth
Possible to Get.
POST 21/- FREE.
It’s a fine big warm fellow, 70 x 100 inches.
In cheerful colorings and smart check designs.
Made from good wool with plenty of weight—6ilb.
Good for bushmen as a Verandah Bed Covering,
Travelling and a hundred and one other purposes
that will readily suggest themselves.
WRITE FOR YOURS TO-DAY.
comfort i
The balaclava car
When the wind blows icv
cold this cap gives you com-
fort. Splendid for riding,
driving or as a sleeping cap.
Of all pure wool. Manufactured
by Dr. Jaeger. - /fl
In Lower Quality, 3/6 *»/ O
Post
Free
Service and Comfort
• in this ...
Coat Sweater
Here's the very garment for you men who feel
the cold. Smart and dressy enough to wear
anywhere, anytime. Slips on easy and buttons
up the front, just like a coat. Worn under vourj
ordinary coat or as a coat. In good warm wool'
knitted to fit and nice shades of Brown and
Grey. Sizes to suit all men.
PRICES :
Post Free
12/6, 15/6, 25/-
FINNEY, ISLES
(SL CO.
LTD.,
The Big Block, Brisbane.
IN BANANA LAND
“We Birr”: Recently the crew of the tug
Iceberg unloaded a wheel for one of the
Mackay sugar-mills, the skipper being
anxious to hurry in order to catch the tide
at Flat Top and thus meet the steamer
Burwah. But in his haste he did not reckon
with the Waterside Workers, who on learn-
ing that, the wheel had been unloaded by the
sacrilegious hands of seamen struck. After
some time peace was made by the crew of
the Iceberg solemnly taking the wheel from
the wharf and placing it hack on the deck
of the Iceberg. Honor being thus satisfied,
the Waterside Workers with equal solemnity
proceeded to unload the wheel. Having
safely deposited it on the wharf, they jour-
neyed on the tug to Flat Top—to miss the
Burwah. Is it any wonder that Labor is
losing caste?
Many nice people are cursing the Ryan
Cabinet without cause. Various branches
of the Red Cross and other philanthropic
and patriotic groups charge the State Gov-
ernment with refusing permits to make
money collections. But the State Govern-
ment has no more to do with this than
with the revolution in China. The stern re-
fusals are given by the War Council, and to
the War Council belongs all the blame—-or
all the credit, whichever it may be.
“Politieus”: Its finance continues to be
the deadliest indictment of the Ryan Govern-
ment. After a year exceedingly prosperous
from the revenue standpoint —a year in
which Queensland, with its paltry popula-
tion of 680,000, actually raised nearly eight
millions of revenue, besides spending some
4£ millions of trust and loan funds —the
State comes out a quarter of a million to
the bad. Shameless extravagance is the sole
cause. In the railways the debauch is most
marked, and the lines will probably show,
when all is told, a deficiency of three-quar-
ters of a million. Additional land and in-
come taxation to the extent of about £600,000
has been imposed in the last two years, but
even this has been wholly insufficient to keep
HE KNEW GINGER’S WEAKNESS.
MRS. ROURKE : “They tell me that Ginger’s new wife is a very pretty little hit of goods.”
MR. CRONKY : “She’s boshter. At least she teas when I last saw her —three days ago.”
things square. Looming ahead is more taxa-
tion, more deficit and (if possible) more
borrowing, until the administration collapses
of its own rottenness.
This is what the Six O’Clockers told
Premier Ryan the other day:—
Many of our men have gone away—married men
unfortunately—to fight for King and country, and
have left their wives—in many cases very young
wives—behind. We know too well that these young
wives, left without much responsibility and without
family cares, have turned to drink in very many
cases.
That statement is as prejudicial to recruit-
ing as almost anything The Bulletin has
seen; and the people who made it ought to
be required to either prove it up to the hilt
or eat dirt.
“Tinana”: “F. 8.” (B. 28/6/T7) thinks
that the gradual reduction in the number
of farms applied for in Queensland shows that
land-settlement is not as popular as it was.
The falling away has been only marked since
the war started. In this district (Mary-
borough) and along the Mary valley there
are many homes which have each given three
sons to the war—sons just at the age for
land selection in normal times. And for
that it’s no good blaming the Government—
blame Fritz and the fat-headed Freetrade
policy of Britain which gave Germany the
sinew’s of war.
France’s Day: July 14.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Liberty maker ! Liberty keeper ! France! We send
you u
The coins of lead that giving turns to gold—
A little finger that may help defend you
From famine, though but little, and from cold:
Wards of the freedom w<?n by France, the first
In Europe, sodden dull with blood and tears ;
Wards of these liberties to-day, that durst
Not be faint-hearted, nor know qualms or fears.
* * *
Teach us thy spirit of the centuries,
Thou who hast armies fought with pike and lance,
Weary and war-scarred, as the Old Guard dies
For that belief and honor, which is France ;
Who, armed alone with pikes, faced cannon grim ;
Who, their bare bloody feet worn red and raw,
Sang, as they fought, their splendid Strasborg Hymn,
And had, for pay, but bread and boots of straw !
Teach us thy spirit, France ! We of the new
White Southern land, safe-walled about with seas,
Come humbly to the holy, ground that grew
The fertile seed of our great ..liberties;
And when the stress within our gate shall come,
Teach us the love that conquers death, to try
To keep inviolate our island home;
And, like your Marseillaise, know how to cie.
Some of our spirit mingles now with thine ;
Some of thy glory doth' our sons enhance;
Upon our banners Flanders summers shine,
Our Waratah flames in the fields of France.
East shall our banners go with thine to mark
How good, at last, sends evil back to Hell,
And Freedom shall come Westward from the dark
Of kingships of the Rliine and of Moselle.
The heap of dust and flesh that was Pozieres,
The midden of the dead that was Bapaume,
Have heard the young Australian’s strident cheers,
Because advancing brought him nearer home.
Flower of the liberty of all the world
For old-time France helped make Australia free-
Our Flag, the Cross of Stars, with thine unfurled,
Our handolasp o’er four thousand leagues of sea !
Teach us thy spirit, thou beloved land,
That,' in our need, when foes besiege our towns,
There shall arise, stern-faced, with pike in hand,
A daring Danton of the Darling Downs.
And, that thy spirit we may full inspire,
A new de Lisle to spur the blood like wine,
And a new Marseillaise to fill with fire
Some splendid singer of the Condamine.
France of old Dumas and his comrades four —
D’Artagnan and his three swashbuckling mates—
Youth, beauty, daring left our shining shore,
Careless as these, and laughing at the Fates.
France! When thy victory comes, and, battle-worn,
The sword falls from thine hand, good hopes for
fears
Come to the re-united lovers lorn
Of our Three Hundred Thousand Musketeers \
Liberty maker l Liberty giver ! France! We send
you
The coins of lead that giving turns to gold—
A little finger that may help defend you
From famine (though but little) and from cold.
Not guerdon nor largesse for your endeavor—
The bankrupt world cannot that debt repay—
But one poor laurel-leaf to say that, never
Can we forget this Day is France’s Day.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 7, 1917.
My Dear Tiiargomindah, —
Governor Goold-Adams’s visit to Thursday
Island was something of a disappointment
to many of the white female residents, lor
weeks before, w’herever two or three women
were gathered together, it was odds-ou that
the topic was Dress. On the arrival of the
last steamer from the South before the
Cocked Hat's coming the post office was
besieged by misses and madames demanding
packages and boxes, and everywhere could
be heard : “Did your parcel come, my dear (
Alas! when his heartless Ex. did come he
upset the whole show by staying only a few
hours and not spending a night on the
Island. These men!
This has been a sedate week, fluttered by
Mrs. Ted Holland entertaining a smart lun-
cheon party at the Gresham on Friday and
Mrs. A. G. Selway pouring tea the same
day at the Cooee Cafe. The guests were
much the same at both soirees.
Dr. L. J. J. Vye, who left with the first
relay of medical men for the battlefields,
returned to Brisbane a few days ago, and
is now enjoying the glorious air of Buderim
Mountain.
Another Queenslander who has just
gained an M.C. is Will Henzell, who got his
hand in at Gallipoli before going on to
France. A second star is keeping the other
decoration company.
The Cherniavski boys are expected to
arrive with their musically-fashioned hair to-
morrow. On Monday Leon Berliner is to
give a reception in their honor.
Ivy Norman, a girl with a contralto voice
which should charm the money-bird later on,
has gone to Rockhampton under engagement
to Walter George, who is brightening up
the sinful city with his Smart Set Co.
The Brisbane Wool Spinning Guild held
its first annual meeting last night. In one
year it has taught 160 women to spin, its
credit balance is over £2OO, and 5601 b. of
wool have been made up for soldiers’ socks.
Little, the president, and energetic
little Miss Stella Bruce Nicol, the secretary
are its chief props.
Next 1 1'idav is Wattle Day, with France’s
Day on its heels. All the booty goes to
Francois.
KiUed in France, Pte. W. R. Piers Blun-
!. e JJf w f one the original Anzacs,
was leturned wounded to Australia, and
re-enlisted in November last. And lie’s not
yet entitled to a vote!
The Gov. and Lady Goold-Adams helpe4
to swell the crowd at the Austral Choir con-
cert in the Exhibition Hall to-night. Tak-
ings go to the Red Cross.
Hospital Saturday boxes will be rattled
on Vugust 10. This year the committee will
not give the General Hospital a share of the
plunder, on the ground that the Government
has taken over that institution.
A new kindergarten, in connection with
the Cr6che and Kindergarten Association,
but under the auspices of the Church of
England, was opened by Lady Goold-Adams
on Wednesday. It is in Gloucester-street,
Spring Hill. Rabies of all denominations,
including Shakers and Holy Rollers, will be
welcomed, and the League of Honor girls
have undertaken to provide the £2OO required
annually for the upkeep.
An honor board on which are 70 names
was unveiled at the Agricultural Depart-
ment last Saturday by the Minister, Mr.
Lennon, The memorial is of Queensland’s
beautiful maple with a border of bean-tree.
The State Fisheries Department is to ex-
tend operations to Maryborough, where a
receiving depot is to be built on Sand}
Straits.
Minister Huxharn had a mournful visit
from the Boot and Shoe Retailers’ Associa-
tion on Thursday. Its grievance was
against the Health Act, which prohibits the
use of deleterious substances in the make-up
of boots and shoes. The Minister firmly
announced that the public must get what it
pays for. Which means that we'll have no
more cardboard soles for a while, anyhow.
Mr. Gilchrist, city surveyor, Prahran
(Vic.), has been appointed city engineer of
Brisbane at £B5O a year. Sixty applicants.
A public meeting was addressed on Thurs-
day night by your Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., who
desired to explain how the Sydney Voluntary
Workers’ Association provides homes for
soldiers’ widows. Apparently there was an
idea in the little man’s mind that Queens-
land hadn’t done anything of the sort.
Claude Henderson, secretary to the War
Council and an original 9th Battalion man,
enlightened him. The same scheme is in
operation here, only the machinery is better,
being composed of the Anzac committee,
Minister Coyne being chairman, with the
Government as backer, the Workers’ Dwell-
ing Board and the State Bank as side-part-
ners, and the Carpenters’, Builders’ Laborers’,
Painters’ and Plumbers’ Unions bearing a
hand.
The Gilson family, of Goodna, is doing its
bit. Three sons are in the A.I.F. and one
in the Navy. Word is through that George
Gilson and his pal Mick Mundy have each
scored a military medal for bringing in
wounded under fire.
Roma’s popular Major Mick Shanahan,
D. 5.0., who lost a leg at Romani, is in
Brisbane. He leaves shortly for London,
where the 150 guineas thrust into his wallet
by Roma admirers will go towards purchas-
ing the latest in mechanical walk-abouts.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


SAVE £3O
by buying'
A New Series “18
99
X
BEFORE Ist AUGUST.
H Others have already raised prices, and higher freights and the increased
cost of materials are forcing us to do likewise.
53 The new Series “iS” Model, possessing a high-tension magneto and
many other unusual and in most instances exclusively Studebaker
features, has only been announced a short time.
Though the 4-cylinder models cost considerably more. at the Factory
and a great deal more to lan d we are only increasing the price
but not until Ist August, for Studebaker makes no price advance
announcements without affording the public a buying chance.
Our Stocks are Limited.
It is Wise to Adi Immediately.
■
h.
m m
w.
-
malt
vStudebaKer Corporation of Australasia Ltd.,
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.


CARRY A TUBE OF CINNAK.
IT STOPS A COLD FROM
DEVELOPING.
na
You take it jus
Ijke that—
Transfer from the
palm to the tongue
and the cure begins
AT ONCE.
Cinnak can be taken
anywhere.
Cinnak deal’s the air passages
instantly and leaves them open and
' free. Get a tube now.
All Chemists, PER TUBE.
JASON
UNDERWEAR
British Made [i
from Australasian Wool.
For Coughs & Colds!
WAWN’S
Wonder Wool
‘The Magic-wrap that CURES!”
Its genial, radiating warmth penetrates
and soon dispels Bronchial Inflamma-
tion. It soothes the cough-racked lungs.
The phlegm-clogged throat and nasal
chambers are quickly cleared. Circula-
tion is restored, and fever allayed.
Try it when you get a cough !
It stands pre-eminent as the most potent
GENERAL household curative so far
evolved by pharmaceutical science.
Equally effectual for Rheumatism and
all pains caused by uric acid and blood
congestion.
Place it where the pain is and the pain will stop!
Wrap him tip in
WONDER-WOOL.
It cures Sciatica, Backache, Gout. Li
hago,. Abdominal Pains. Sore Thr<
NOW 1 ' 8 ’ Chilblains ’ Bronchitis. Tn
All chemists and stores. 2/-; post f:
DROSAL
The Greatest Uric Acid
Solvent Prepared.
A certain alleviate and cure for Rheu-
matism. Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout etc
Completely dissolves and thoroughly
the* 1 system*"' TT I" Urlc Som
Mss. a,:. 1 * on the
All chemists, 2/6; posted, 2/6.
Use Wawri’s Wonder. Wool externally.
Take “ Urosal ” Internally.
V. A. WAWN,
Manufacturing
Chemist,
Grigor's Pharmacy,
186 George Street North, Sydney. N.S.W
F F anybody charges you more than Gd. for
n cTt of The Bulletin, send
'*?;• , ’ d - t 0 - 14 (icorge Street, Sydney and
it, will be posted to you for one vear ' ’
HIGH day and holiday shoos, for wear on
extra-special occasions with the extra-
special gown, ought, one feels, to have
something distinctive about them, some-
thing that lifts them above the shoes for every-
day wear and tear. It is this distinctive, this
different look, that makes the charm of the most
elegant shoes in the' Bostock range, the delightful
little black satin shoe here illustrated, for ex-
ample, One has only to glance at the picture to see
that here is something very smart and desirable.
Then think of it on, showing daintily, captivat-
ingly* beneath the flounced or scalloped hem of
the summer gown. Nothing could be more appro-
priate or mote charming, And with all its
daintiness and piquancy* it is the most comfortable
and well-fitting of shoes, as indeed are all those
short-fronted styles, and will suit most women,
giving that ease, lightness and coolness which the
Australian climate requires.
Bostock No.
P 6414
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Bostock shoes are unmistakable. The name is on
every pair, and they are sold at all leadin ' stores.
MM*
JEWS
w
m
BRITISH M \ O E
Genuine
1 FOX’S
sg r^>e
15 always fashionable
Fasf Dye
See frhaf every Yard bears Trade
Marks as here llluslrahed
do s fra//an f?epres e/i faf/rps
Box. 1802 C PO Sydney.
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
C Maker a s ll o?alfK°iLS , ot K S USe *
— mu, ivuiTj jrarts.
e Largest Machine=Tool Shop in the Commonwealth
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
TheCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM
~ . , _ Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 1 0/« each
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.'
The B1 = c r £? aI Store * 89 Mark et St., Sydney!
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
AVON
TYRES.
More Miles for Y
our Money.
HUDSWELL, CLARKE g CO.,
1 I „
r ft ii I jrr.il
Efiy
; f <
***■■*"" -I L.ll.iVi>Sjjp| =
MW ■< *<'
LEEDS
Locos, of all Types.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent—
J. GERMAN, tojcean Houm, Moore St., Sydney
Naval-Lieut. Sanders, a new A .0., of
Auckland (M.L.), put his “square rigged
time” in on the Marjorie Craig, a barque
in the trans-Tasman timber trade. Going
into steam he joined the U.S.S. Co. and
finished his time in 1914. Having passed
the extra master’s exam, in Sydney soon
after war broke out, he hurried off to Lon-
don. spread his credentials before the Admi-
ralty and demanded a job. He got a good
one and kept pace with it. But the parti-
cular bit of daring which won him the bronfce
is kept quiet for some inscrutable reason.
“Good Australian” writes from Frisco :
The more one sees of California the more one is
convinced that the genesis of hydro-electricity in Aus-
tralia would open a new trade epoch ; and hydro-elec-
tricity is merely another name for water-storage. Mere
in San Francisco one eo. supplies gas, water and elec-
tricity to consumers, the current from an equipment
of 11 hydro-electric plants producing 156,000 h.p.
Now this Pacific Gas and Electric Co. has begun a
scheme to develop 180,000 h.p. at a cost of
£3,500,000. The work will occupy five years, and
the electric juice will be brought 220 miles into
San Francisco. The fall of the water between the
point of diversion on the Pit River and the point of
utilisation is 930 ft., while the drainage area will be*
4355 sq. miles. The electricity will be sold ;ill the
way from the power-house to this city for domestic,
agricultural, mining and industrial purposes, and
every farm-house, shack, village and town en route
will be able to buy cheap electricity. See what it
would mean to our Victorian irrigation and closer-
settlement districts if they had an abundant supply
Of cheap electricity ! Why, it would recreate North-
ern Victoria and Southern N. S. Wales, while land
in the Mallee region would fetch the same price as
land in the Warrnambool-Tower Hill potato district.
This can be done, because there is nothing difficult
about storing water in the Victorian mountains of
the Dividing Range and Australian Alps.
“Curlew”: In 'Victoria slovenly traffic-
management wastes thousands every year
and is largely responsible for\the newest 10
per cent, rise in freights. It took me two
hours and 10 minutes to travel the nine
miles from Longwood to Euroa by a goods
train the other day. Practically all the
business done at Longwood and a siding was
to detach four empty trucks. I’d like to
know the cost of that 9-mile journey.
“M.G.”: We have gas helmets and breath-
ing apparatus for divers and firemen. We
fumigate houses to kill germs and other ver-
min. Why not apply a wider mind to the
treatment of certain diseases in military
camps? How long could an afflicted stay in
sulphur or cyanide fumes provided he were
fed with fresh air? Or how about a bath
saturated with these or equivalently-destroy-
ing additions and supplied with a breathing
apparatus? If the skin as a whole absorbed
too much of the poison, it could be protected
by rubber-jackets. The idea may be a bit
mad ; but out of madness sometimes comes
sanity.
“0.K.” : Another glaring instance of care-
lessness in the management of Melbourne
G.P.O. occurred the other day in connection
with the S’African mail. The morning
dailies gave the closing time as 3 p.m.
People taking parcels to the G.P.O. befol-e
mid-day were coolly informed that the mail
had closed at 11 a.m. The Department, in
reply to complaints, said it was not respon-
sible for a mistake in the Argus. When
it was pointed out that the Age had com-
mitted the same “mistake” the official
bluffer changed his tone: the Department’s
fault was tacitly admitted, and that was all
about it. There is no sort of punishment
to fit the crime of carelessness among well-
paid public servants. They go their own
sweet way with their finger to their nose.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
, A recent property .sale by a Sydney firm to the
Commonwealth Bank is noteworthy not so much for
the price produced as for the associations of the
site. On the corner of Moore-street, then Foxlow-
place (named after a lady friend of Sam Terry, who
had property here), resided for a great manv vears
U entworth's friend, the patriotic Dr. William Bland
red lamp and carriage—the latter known as
the “red-pill box”—were features of Sydney life
three-quarters of a century ago. On his removal to
College-street the old home was demolished, and in
its stead the warehouse of Ross, Morgan and Robert-
son came into existence. Later, the building was
turned into a nest of offices. Then the Common-
wealth Bank came on. The Post Office Chambers, on
the south, sold last week to the Commonwealth Bank
for £71,500 ( £9OO per foot), had been in the
possession of one family for 70 years. In 1842
« illiam James Packer, of Limestone Plains, Goulburn
owned the land, and mortgaged it to Thomas Chap-
man for £l5OO. Four years later Packer and Chap-
man sold to Tom Kite, of Bathurst, for £3500. Tom
Kite, who was originally an innkeeper, entailed all
his properties, and the one just sold has been parted
with by the Kite trustees (D. W. Roxburgh and P.
, . liabett). On the site long ago one Goggin ran a
printing office, and most of the theatrical “jobbing”
of the time was clone there.
“Rio” : I’ve discovered some evidence cor-
roboraMve of the statement of “Kerani’s”
-r , U i-, WK / f pl f ed <B. 31/5/’l7) that
JJIV r tro °l )S on Peninsula
note. In the W indsor Magazine for April
one TaHentyre, the Aftzac hero of a yarn
by G B. Lancaster, is asked: “What did
S-v’ H fol ' ! a n Christmas din-
beer t H ephed ’ ‘ r l ard tack and bully
snowing Ut L ° n ? I>ine ancl il was
. now mg. So he was there a wmek after
the evacuation, anyhow !
short "of S!l ;> h "' S ° n<^ ed SS* a Gagman 1° be
these d‘vs At C'b in i W -if te^ n Queensland
uiese days. At Charleville last week one
pen of 14 brumbies sold for 6s. (id each and
another mob realised 10s. per tail.
“Our French bill-of-fare makes a mockerv
nr, aT. ' 6 !- h) ' Australian appetites.” writes
an Austialian woman in Nice “ r Thi« i
>“*”*•*. ri« XsXktaoK
ii-acie °r cabbage and breadcrumbs well-
vied and looking very flash, but. of course
no real nourishment. Second course • I It’
tuce leaves, salt and oil ' t_
Spinach. Fourth course’ (dessert :
orange! By the time ail the nuL ° ne
T°Tin l an rV hp cut l ery tarnished I'felt aV if
trafia X 'X V&X* *


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment Known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical.
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavitv of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums 'or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
aol^i^loia
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—-well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
Don't forget to use
to - night—and again
in the morning .
You will find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local r '..ketnists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester , England.
J" OIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
4
S
\
v:
- ,a >
o
/
s
%
&
./- r^
r 5,
<. c
■ w > >
•>
'<^l
s&X
Cl
%
rz
2?
1-:
s>
sS
rrt2
fef®
e
: i
£2
//
i :
O r "
j:
'jar
Q
X
<s
TS
ciRAMNY “CHAMBERLAIN
/COPYRIOnTED.)
My first thought was colds and croup when one wet winter’s
day I saw Bobbie up to his knees in water sailing his boat. This, I thought, meant another
night beside a croupy bed, but I bundled him into bed at once, first giving him a good
dose of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. He slept soundly—never coughing once, and
the next morning was as bright and well as usual. There is no question about it—
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
and a warm bed will nip in the bud most
any promising cold or attack of croup.
You need not worry over coughs, colds
and croup or any other winter affection if you
will only make a point of keeping Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy on your medicine shelf.
People recommend this, that, and the other
for colds, but it is just as well to remember—
No matter where you go or what price you
may pay, it is absolutely impossible to get a
a better medicine than Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy.
** Non> Be sure
you get
C number latri s.”
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets area new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Liver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
A DEPOSIT OF
17 6
For War Purposes only.
will purchase a Cert
ficate "for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 10 O „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0,. „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post. Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. tUth March , 1917
Gcnt.’s Full-
sized, Open-
faced, Oxidised
Steel Fx. & R.
Lever Watch,
35/6.
With Lumin
ors Figures
and Hands,
55/-
w
/
POCKET
WATCHES
Luminous.
We are now supplying our famous “Fx. and R.”
Pocket Watches with luminous dials, so that in the
greatest darkness the time is clearly visible.
At night, in the bush, or the street, or room, or at
the picture show, on sea or land, in the air or under-
ground, the dials are clear by day or night.
We have them in every size and style of case, in
Steel, or Nickel, or Gold, or Silver.
The difference in price betwen a luminous and
ordinary dial varies according to size.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Make Sure of a
Clean, Sanitary Bowl
by using Sani-Flush, the only
preparation that effectually
cleans the hidden trap, pre-
vents odors, makes dipping of
water and scrubbing unnec-
essary. Sprinkle a little in the
bowl every day.
Directions on every can of
Sani-Flush
.
cant ctren
Uniq u e
nothing else
like it. Not a
general clean-
ser, but made
only to clean
toilet bowls.
Does not
injure plumb-
ing connec-
tions.
Ask
Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush or can
get it quickly; or write us a card
giving your dealer’s name and we
will have you supplied.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Svtiuey, N. S.W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
•THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Marine Engines
For All Boats
CalUe 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started.
Electric Lights
CalUe 8 H. P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Basoas Engine
CaUle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It7?ol0
Miles an Hoar
A most complete
line of marine
motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails gladly mailed
on request. When
writing, please
state which type of
engine interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
A'ole Australasian Agents:
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole'digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house. • ■
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
-T
THE “DADDY” OF THE LOT!
Hundreds of shavers who have tried no end of so-called Safety Razors
declare that
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is the “daddy” of all shaving instruments. Never a blade was made
to equal it. Shaves in a “jiffy” and in one act of lathering.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Sinele Razor. Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case. 21/-
Single Razor. Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case. 30/-
“Plum” Strop Dressing. 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price last,.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
054 GEORGE, STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
We publish a Special WATCH
CATALOGUE. Write for a
Free Copy.
Right Through.
This Genuine
English Lever Watch
tram STEWART DAWSON’S
is Guaranteed for
Twenty Years.
Price £4/10/-
Post
F ree
Descriution: Gent’s Gold-filled Demi-
Hunting En; lish Lever, f-plate,
Jewelled, with Compensation Balance’
£4/10/-
STEWART
DAWSON’S,
412 George St.. Sydney.
CARTRIDGES
For Tour Pistol or Revolver,*
n
Wi
S J
■m
K)
<
REGARDLESS of tke make of your arm.
Remington UMC pistol and revolver car-
tridges give you maximum results. TLey func-
tion an automatic perfectly and are clean and
accurate. Try tkem. Catalogue upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT. Manner
Bos 686. Melbourao
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
A £l4 Machine
EL. £8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
NQ 2
"MILLER"
"MILLER
Lighting Fixtures and Lamps
of all descriptions—Electric, Gas and
Oil varieties can be obtained through-
out Australia
and New Zea-
land at moder-
ate prices.
The "Miller”
quality is known
the World over
and the name
stands for the BEST in all lamp ware.
Do not fail to look over the
"Miller” line, —it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
No. 0822
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
tm*
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY or OIL FULL
GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
r
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.


m
10 cum
The Soap to
cleanse and
purify, the
Ointment to
soothe and
heal
Pure and sure, these fragrant, super-
creamy emollients are wonderfully
effective for skin and scalp troubles
that itch, burn, torture and dis-
figure infants, children and adults.
For free sample each address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALISE
TWO
L /A/ES
5
WRITE
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
Tie STRAND
M
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
2s MOMTEKi a T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep-shell, dark blue gastight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 gr.) Smokeless Powder and
oz. shot.
ELEY
320 Revolver
ELEY
32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAWIS,
420. George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
The
TEESS,
reg? mark
guarantees >
Quafity
Finish
w.v.
HATs
CAPS
AND
Of aitFirst-c/ass Ha tiers throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSsC?L T PIONDON ENGLAND 5
Beyond dispute, tlie present war is the
greatest engineering competition ever devised.
SUNBEAM
productions have always achieved distinction
in competitions. To-day Sunbeam cars and
SUNBEAM- COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
are engaged in playing their parts in well-
nigh every theatre in which the Allies’ arms
are engaged, and are winning greater laurels
in this test of unprecedented proportions and
duration than any of the many conspicuous
ones they have gained in times of peace.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT • 54-62, Oxford St. London, England
WORKS » • • m Wolverhampton, England
1
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium tcin without
lifting a hand?
Uncerrua
'J'HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
Cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron 'Jelloids' to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote :—" Impoverished blood can be made rich and good
by means oj Iron ‘ Jeilo.ds ,’ the most effective and desirable treatment."
A FORTNIGHTS TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anxmia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON -JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by Thb Jelloid’ Co.. 205. City Road, London, England.
(Pronounced Jell-Uoyd£)
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Wangaratta (Vic.) claims to have found
the record potato. It was a Carmen, grown
by J. Vallender at Myrrehee, and turned the
scale at 61b. 3oz.
* * * .
“C. Ockney”: “Joe” Lyons, the caterer-
knight recently dead in London, was a wise
man who came out of the East (otherwise
Whitechapel) to capture the West (other-
wise Piccadilly). After failing in a
dozen other businesses, he hit upon the
swell - tea-shop-at-cheap-prices-and-no-tips-to-
waitresses idea, and started on the road to
fortuhe. Next. Joseph and his brethren
turned their attention to hotehbuilding and
put up several colossal edifices in important
London thoroughfares, but religiously kept
down the tariff, and this scheme likewise
prospered. In his spare time Joe dabbled
in literary work and wrote several short
plays and a couple of novels with Drury
Lane’s Cecil Raleigh. But the public pre-
ferred his inner-man catering.
* * * *
J. F. Hogan I’eminisces from London :
W. T. Pyke (B. 22/"2/’X7), in his interesting- sum-
mary of Book Arcade Cole’s pioneering- movements,
does not mention one early location—at the top of
Bourke-'street, next door to the White Hart. This
shop was previously in the occupation of Henry
Tolman Dwight, the leading bookseller of Melbourne
before the rise of Robertson and Mullen. Dwight’s
bookshop was the regular meeting-place of a literary
coterie that embraced Adam Lindsay Gordon, Henry
Kendall, R. H. Horne, Marcus Clarke, G. A. Walstab,
James Kingston and J. J. Shillinglaw. There is an
article by Kingston on these gatherings in one of
the numerous short-lived Melbourne magazines. From
Cole’s first pitch in Paddy’s Market I remember that
as a schoolboy I bought a book. The stall, or rather
shelf—it was little more —was situated at the north-
western corner of the Market. One has to be away
from Australia for a few years to realise the signifi-
cance of the modern Rainbow enterprises. Cer-
tainly old-man Cole deserves a full-sized biography
and considerably- more honor than he has received.
“Branx” : “De Oriel” seems to know a lot
of merely two-job barbers (B. 21/6/T7).
They don’t matter a snap of the scissors.
Why, at Burraga (N.S.W.), the barber will
sell you a haircut, take you next door for a
cool drink, then through into the next build-
ing and trade you a hat and a pair of boots;
and finally back to the saloon to extract a
troublesome tooth. After that, if you won't
go away, he will undertake to repair your
water-tank.
* * * *
“Date Stamp”: The Post Office soon gets
a red-tape noose round the neck of the occa-
sional business-like officer. A country post-
master I know conceived the outrageous idea
of installing 20 private boxes in his office, and
thereby adding a public convenience and in-
creasing the revenue by £lO per annum. He
secured a score of subscribers, and sent in a
request to headquarters to have the boxes
installed. But instead of boxes he got a
querulous memo, asking him whence he got
his authority to canvass for such an object,
and assuring him that “the Department has
already received more such requests than it
can conveniently cope with.” The epistle had
the desired effect. The p.m. saw the error of
his vrays and stopped thinking.
* * * *
“F.E.M.” : “Bad Australian” (B. 14/6/T7),
writing from S. America, mentions a musca-
tel vine bearing fully-matured grapes in
June and December. Our muscatels are
black, and have never borne twice in the one
year; but we grow here at Redcliffe (Q.)
an Isabella (black), which produces fruit
biennially. There are seven other sorts on
the property, but none of them fruit twice in
a year.
“Karaji”: The bright intellect of the
Postal Department requires that a piece of
bark shall be left on each telegraph-pole
before it is “passed.” The object of this is
to enable an inspector to determine the tim-
ber. though a bushman or other expert can
identify the wood blindfolded by tasting it.
The result of the stupid regulation is that
the sap is drawn to the part covered by the
bark and decay sets in. Along one portion
of the North Coast line (N.S.W.) poles are
toppling over on account of decay thus
caused. In other places men are employed
cutting off the rotting portion in order to
stop the trouble spreading
POOR LONELY ONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Matrimony.
Gentleman, good position, wishes to meet lonely
squatter’s daughter. Replies confidential by honor-
able gent, of 40, view above.
Listen, lonely Squatter’s Daughter:
Here’s a show to get a chap;
Like a lamb that goes to slaughter
Lead yourself into the trap.
Man of forty,
Trim and taughty,
Not too haughty,
Naughty, naughty
Kind, mayhap.
Picture, lonely Squatter’s Daughter,
Advertiser from the ad.—
Newchum, lately crossed the water;
Nicely tailored ; “hates a cad”;
Temper sunny,
Droll and funny,
Call you Honey;
Got some money—
Not too bad.
Sounds like, lonely Squatter’s Daughter,
Someone who has done his dash;
Gets remittance once a quarter,
Used to the command of cash.
Love you only,
Living lonely,
Monotonelv,
Ladies pronely
Take a mash.
Time is fleeting, Squatter’s Daughter;
Age doth not our charms enhance;
Art is long, but life is shorter;
Go and meet his tender glance.
Brief preamble,
Then the ramble—
Briar and bramble,
All a gamble,
Take your chance.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Dozens of Uses
PICTURED at the right are
only a few of the many uses of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. You
could secure no handier aid for use
in polishing and finishing.
111
“The Dust-Proof Polish"
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a
perfectly hard, dry, glasslike polish
of great beauty and durability.
It gives Craftsman Furniture
that soft, artistic polish so appro-
priate to this style. It entirely
removes the “cloudiness” from Ma-
hogany, restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Pre-
pared Wax for keeping dining-
room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes do not affect it in the
slightest.
Every family has dozens of uses for
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Keep a
tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos . Piano
Floors Furniture
Woodwork Motor Car
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is conven-
iently put up. Always ready for use.
No tools or brushes required. All
you need is a soft cotton rag.
You can secure Johnson’s Prepared
Wax from all good dealers, or from:
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
~<b cc iii m ft a g scij-p ii g i a a (I a a a a a o o o o o o a o o o o o o o o o o d o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 0.0 o o o o o o o o o o o 04,flo 4 ,fl o 0.0 o 0 o o o o fl o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o n o u o
t\\
SIS
' ’H
S'
/7 <7 «
Js. ■
<ns»
(A
OOOUO 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 O O'O'OfP
0 0 0
o n
000000
: 1 7ooooooooosiouqooo - qqoo’ooooooo
0 0
0 0
0 0 0
0 0
0 0
G 0
ooaooQoooofloaooooooooaoa
U 0
0 'G
&
■v«?iaßU JT
m
<
o
3
QC
0
;l w
ties
las
If w
ice
i a.
*s<fl
to
u
cr»
standard
THE thing that the people should £ave
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravislier of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
fi
wm
£s>y
PATRIOTISM
i _ Yobb '
Aim? c
Then have a^HOT
ft at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
1
±
X
EVERY RIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
TENNIS
We carry a Fine Range of Materials
from Leading Makers.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
r. 8.8. Special 9/6
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 15/6
M.S. Haymarket 22/6
Haymarket, Special ... 27 /6
Haymarket. Selected . . 35/-
Haymarket, Ex. Special 37 / 6
Acre’s Handicap 16/6
Ayre’s A 1 17/6
Ayre’s Double Central.. 18/9
Ayre’s Champion 27/6
Ayre’s S.N.D 50/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw... 18/-
Slazenger’s Demon .... 25/-
Slazenger’s Whitehou.se 30/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 42/6
Slazenger’s Doherty ... 45/.
Slazenger’s Stadium ... 50/-
(Postage on Racket: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/6 5/9
Dunlop Champion 1/9 21/-
Each. Doz.
Ayre’s Champion 1/11 22/6
Slazengcr’s Champ. 1/11 22/6
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
STEAM-TARRED NETS,
Waterproof, full size ‘ 6/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Waterproof, wire head line 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
Nets, Presses, Markers, Tapes and all Sundries
Stocked. Tennis Rackets Repaired and Re-strung.
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
~ „ „ , , MEN’S GLOVES. S Mof4.
v .15.15., real leather, special value .. . 8/6
napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms g/g
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
® oz 14-/6 IT/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist*
PERFECTION FIGHTING," na'pa,' fined’ Tor’
8 oz 24/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 25/- 30/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
ro pS“ y recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker. .'
LOKBEII, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed 60/.
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., i/. ; other Stat’es, 1/8.)
27/6
35/-
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. c J C ,
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed Set of 4.
„ Best napa, „ :?/"
» Tan Leather, „ ” iJ7„
» very superior, „ „ 8/6
» Laced, „ * 10/«
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other SUtes, 1/2.) 15/ "
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BIND
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 & 4/filach
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light
weight about 340 z. (Post 6d.) ’
18/6 pair
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
PUNCHING BALLS.
**■* le * lh "- *“
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Bail,' 'regulation 6 Jiz t 10 fin 6 e
leather, staged seams, very fast. ft/a iO /« m/a
B » A pfs;;jn Y i *£■* m -
napa leathei, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
“MACH” ARMY,
The finest made Snest quality brown mocha kid.
EXPERT, double-end Ball medium Vii ’‘ ‘ * 407-
floor and’ rope for ceiling
EXPERT, double-end Ball reflation 9/6, 12/6 ’ 15/ '
double-stitched, very light' "*£*} leather ’
EXPERT, double-end Ball medium" ■ %£>/-, 30/-
rubber and leather fitting nk selected hide,
PORTABLE BALL" stT 0 S „ g Vp’im, *Sfc' 22/ % ? 3/ ‘
iron base, leather cover ami m m P g ’ u P ri Sht, heavy
Above balls fitted with \TosJ com P lete - • 57/6
(Postage on Army or Expert- N SW b^ t ' qua! * ty bladders.
Ball Gloves 2 /0 3/9 4/o™’ v w L° thor States ’ W
Punching Platforms .’ / P Rn'/" ‘ca ( 6
Ball and Socket Swivels ” “ 33/ "’ 80 /‘ each
Ball-bearing Swivels 2/ 6 »
d/6, 4/6, 5/-
for smokers.
ZIO £ A l C ! GARK T T, \tobacco, h lsh «- grad ;
imported. Very mild. Will not
dry the throat. famed for its quality and Duritv'~ t '“‘i T y
cigarette papers _ purity. i oz . packet, with book of
SIJNOL TOBACCO, highest-grade Virginian nVtnroi 9d. (post free).
Dark or light. Plug and cut. 2oz. packet l’l rl r nn sf- Awarded 4 gold medals.
’ 11(1 (POSt free ) ; a pound, fi/fi
em - i os * free to any address.
GREATEST
•XPQWS OUTFITTERS-
71Tm tobacconists
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
Tieyvcastk. I Brisbane


Peg' o* My Heart Praises
Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery
m MSBSk
■
'
MISS SARA ALLGOOD (from a photo by the Siviss Studios').
Miss Sara Allgood, as “Peg
o’ My Heart,” has endeared
herself in a unique way to
play lovers. She is so fresh,
so human, so kind and Clevel-
and alive that jaded theatre-
goers find it good merely to
enjoy her laugh. Messrs. .J.
and N. Tait have brought
many world-famous stars to
Australia, but this witty Trish
girl in “Peg o’ My Heart”
bids fair to outshine them all
in popularity.
Miss Sara Allgood says a
good word for another public
favorite.
Dear Sirs,—
I have never before
had occasion to re-
commend a Pro-
prietary Medicine —
in fact, 1 always
had an idea that
they were not all
that they should be;
but I suppose there
is an exception to
every rule, and cer-
tainly Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery- is an
exception.
I have used it
with excellent re-
sults, and it com-
pletely broke up my-
cold. I have great
faith in it now, and
a 1 re a d y recom-
mended it to my
friends. You have a
remedy- in a thou-
sand, and I am sure
that everyone who
tries it will think
likewise.
Very truly- yours,
(Sgd.)
SARA ALLGOOD.
STOPS COUGHS
BANISHES COLDS
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth of Dr. Sheldon’s
Discovery. \ re of 11 them? not, don’t delay, but buy a bottle at once and be
leady to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s
i ew Discovery is the ever-ready friend that should be in every household to protect you from
all winter ills. Price, I/O and 3/-
D? Sheldon’s
OUGHS
AND
OtDS
Don’t Envy a Man’s
Champagne Income
UNCHE
.©* r
Maybe he has a dry-toast digestion.
The ever-popular
REX”
Luncheon Cheese
tastes just as good after a humble breakfast of bacon and eggs as it, does
after the most lordly feast—and at the same time is an aid to digestion.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese contains; all the valuable digestive properties of
perfectly matured Full Cream Cheese. It is excellent for all kinds of sand-
wiches, and on biscuits it is great.
Sold everywhere in decorated tins, or in enamel jars.
Insist on getting “Rex” brand.
An economical substitute for fresh
meat is
“REX” CAMP PIE
made from selected meats, cooked,
seasoned and packed in a clear jelly.
TRY ALL THESE “REX” GOODS.
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, Hlb.
tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese in soz.
decorated tins and soz.
enamel jars.
“Rex” Sausages.
6
E
R
Xb
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
Packers of “Rex" Pore Food Produds.
The Mother Flower.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a mystical rose in affection’s
t bright garland,
And angels, they tell us, bent low
where it grew,
Till the earth-children plucked it and Stole
it from star-land,
And men called it Mother-love, tender and
true.
And still methinks angels bend over, behold-
ing
Through turmoil and stress of the sorrow-
ful years,
Thy sweetness, a miracle ever unfolding.
White rose of the valley, the Valiev of
Tears.
Earth’s blossoms must fall and their beauty
must wither
’Neath rude winds tlfcit harvest their
sweetness too fast,
But the blossom we gather in journeying
hither
Blooms fadeless and fragrant and fair to
the last.
O Mystical Rose that the gracious All-giver
Once planted in Eden, be balm to our
fears—
Still a star by the Birth-gate, a lamp by the
River,
O thornless white rose of the Valley of
Tears !
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Honor of the Family.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A NAUSEATING sense of disappoint-
ment gripped Tom Poynter’s heart.
He was a man who pulsated with
human emotions, and his cold, passionless
wife had been a continuing disappointment;
yet he had gone from hope to hope, until he
had reached the end of the pathway and
was faced by an abyss from which arose,
instead of further hopes, magnified by his
own expectations, only the horrors of appre-
hension.
When he had wooed and won the stately,
unbending Isabel, her reticence had been
cold water on the fire of his human ardor;
but he gave himself delightful anticipations
of rapture in the idea that the warmth of
his devotion would melt away the icy
barriers with which she surrounded herself.
Yet he married an icicle, and the springtime
of early matrimony brought no thaw. Then,
looking forward to the coming of the child
that might stir passion’s fires in her heart,
the months became a weariness of disap-
pointment, of hope deferred.
Even when this hope reached a prospect
of realisation, the method by which the
information came to him was bitterly dis-
comforting. He had imagined his wife,
whispering with a delightful, bashful tender-
ness, giving him the glad tidings; but instead
it was his mother-in-law —warm, plump, full-
blooded, vivacious, and everything that her
daughter was not, and seemingly very little
her own child’s senior—-who first intimated
to him the imminent likelihood of an heir.
She mentioned it, too, in connection with
a suggestion that, to preserve his wife’s
health, a little travelling would be beneficial.
To him it seemed, momentarily, a strange
proposition ; but he forgot that altogether in
the glow of the intelligence she had given ;
and when his wife entered the room
immediately afterwards, he sprang towards
her with outstretched hands, drew her
towards him, and with extreme tenderness
put his arm about her.
Yet the prevailing unresponsiveness of
this strange woman to whom he was
married struck a chill into his hot heart.
“But why did you not let me know before
—long before?” he asked. “Why keep me
in the dark?”
“I didn’t like to tell you,” she answered ;
“and I thought you might guess.”
“But you knew I would be glad! And
yon will, too,” he said warmly. “I’ll do
everything to make you happy !”
"I’ve just been telling Tom,” said his
mother-in-law, “about the idea of your
travelling a little to maintain your health.”
%The reminder struck him coldly.
"You don’t want to go?” he protested.
“I can’t get away with you—that’s impos-
sible —and I want to be able to look after
you.”
“Oh, mother could look after me better
than any man,” she said evenly. “But you’re
very good, Tom.”
Even that was some consolation to him,
so seldom did she show anything but a calm,
unemotional acceptance of all the matters of
life.
“I shall feel anxious about you all the
time,” he said, reluctantly.
“Oh, you need feel no more anxiety than
if she was at home here,” said her mother,
brightly. “If she was at home she might
only trouble you in your work; and the
change will establish her health and keep
her interested. She wants to go.”
Tom looked with a mute appeal towards
his wife, but her attitude was an endorse-
ment of her mother’s words.
“Anything you want to do you can do, of
course,” he said.
So it was arranged; and, Maoriland
having been chosen, Isabel and her mother
left the quay a little more than a week later.
It was a quiet parting, and Tom, hoping for
a little waking warmth at the end, was
struck by its coldness. Yet when Drummond,
who had been a friend of the family when
Tom first met his wife, unexpectedly joined
the party, Tom found a consolation in ob-
serving that, if iciness was his wife’s
nature, the coldness she displayed for other
men gave almost an aspect of warmth to her
treatment of himself. Not that it mattered
to Drummond, to whom —in spite of Tom’s
one-time jealousy—the plump, vivacious
widow had always seemed the attraction.
In his debonair manner he kissed that
lady’s hand when the moment came for
parting. But she drew it away quickly and
gave her son-in-law a warm parting embrace
that only served to accentuate the
unemotionalness of his wife’s farewell kiss.
The trip, which Tom had anticipated
would occupy a month or two, spread itself
out curiously. The tourists, finding pleasure
in the sights they witnessed, dallied till the
months became many. The protraction of
the stay caused the waiting husband anxiety,
and his letters became imperative in their
tone. Then the word came that it would
be inadvisable, according to the doctor, for
the return voyage to be attempted ; and just
as Tom, in a ferment of fear, was consider-
ing the possibility of wrenching himself
from the press of business that held him. the
good news came that all was well, and he
was the father of a boy.
I rom that until the arrival home Tom’s
heart beat with the joy of a new hope; yet
paternal pride and pleasure was a small
thing compared with the anticipation that
the baby would mean a new life to that
cold wife of his-—a life with some human
passion awakened.
It was the upsetting of this dream that
left his heart with a damp load of disappoint-
ment. For Isabel came back little changed
- —more stately, more beautiful than before,
perhaps, but with a tenderness for the baby
which hardly reached the fringe of his idea
of the awakening of warm womanhood. lie
had seen warmer-blooded women more pas-
sionate about a child that -was a stranger;
and to him, bearing an innate reverence
for the natural emotions, the crash of his
hopes was painful.
But to her strangely different mother the
child was an idol and a treasure. “Just
fancy me a grandmamma !” she would laugh ;
and her bright youthfulness made the idea
a jest. Yet grandmother she w r as, and so
devoted that the home of the prince seemed
likely to become her own home. Tom, who
had never known Isabel’s father, but had
heard of him as a lawyer with a grey,
unsmiling face, wondered what sort of
inhuman being he must have been to have
bred such coldness as his wife from a bundle
of warm vitality like her mother.
Yet in all his disappointment the thought
of the child was a joy to-him, and he found
pleasure in the enthusiasm of those who
were interested in it. So between his
mother-in-law and himself there was estab-
lished a sympathy that had never before
existed.
He was pleased also when, meeting him
in the street, Drummond asked about the
infant.
“Why, you haven’t called to see it!’’ he
said. “I thought you’d have been bound to
call.”
“Well, I must apologise; I meant to.”
returned Drummond. “But I didn’t want
to come too soon.”
“Come out now, then,” said Tom, warmly.
“Come to dinner.”
“I’d like to run out with you and see f e
new arrival,” said Drummond, “but. if
you’ll excuse m,e, I can’t stay to dinner. I’ve
an early appointment.”
Tom ran him out, feeling a good deal
of pleasure in the companionship. Boyishly,
learning that the baby had been put to sleep
and his wife was engaged with a friend, he
dragged Drummond upstairs and pointed to
the infant lying in the cot.
“A beauty!” said Drummond, enthusi-
astically ; and. stooping, kissed the infant’s
cheek.
The grandmother entered the room at that
moment, stopped with a gesture of surprise
at seeing Drummond, and bowing to him
coldly, exclaimed : “You made so much noise
I thought you’d wake bubsie !”
“Don’t be angry with Drummond for not
calling,” said Tom. “He’s been wanting to,
but he’s shy.”
They proceeded to descend the stairs as
Isabel was farewelling her friend ; but Tom,
hearing the baby waking, told Drummond to
go down and himself raced back to greet the
wakened infant. Later, as he was about to
rejoin his friend, he paused at the stairhead
at the sound of voices.
“How dare you come to this house?” said
the voice of Isabel, vibrant with an unusual
passion. *
“I didn’t intend to stay,” retorted the
voice of Drummond, coolly, “but I couldn’t
resist the temptation of seeing.”
“Well, you will go now,” said Isabel,
imperiously.
“I am going !”
No more was said; and Tom, looking
inquiringly from one to another when he
joined them, could see no trace of confusion
in either—only a cold restraint, which
affected himself. Drummond went; but he
left behind him a suspicion, vague yet
all the more tormenting because of its
vagueness. To suspect, even mentally, his
haughty wife of an intrigue seemed
grotesque ; yet the thought of the frequency
with which he had seen Drummond in the
society of Isabel and her mother, the
remembrance of Drummond’s attitude of
something like proprietorship, hurt him. He
felt a hot surge of angeF at the idea that
the woman who was so cold to him might
have yielded warmly to another man with
no right to claim her; and although the
grotesque idea was dismissed quickly, it left
him restless.
“Belle,” he said. “I’m sorry, but I over-
heard you speaking to Drummond; you
seemed angry with him.”
“I don’t like the man,” she said, shortly.
“But, why?” he persisted. “He was an
old friend of yours !”
“I don’t like the man—l never did,” she
repeated.
Yet, though he remembered that her
natural coldness had always seemed accentu-
ated towards the man who ignored it in his
careless, masterful manner, that remem-
brance did not soothe the restlessness which
aggravated the hunger of disappointment
within him.
Her strange dislike seemed even a ground
for suspicion. He had observed something
of the queer ways of women, in his younger
days, before he was married ; and his own
bachelor experiences had given him an in-
sight into the subtlety of their emotions, the
dishonesty to which the nature of a woman
who had once placed herself in the wrong
inclines, and the strange fashion in which a
passion develops into a dislike. As a matter
of fact, the emotional nart of him was sick,
and therefore ripe for the breeding of dis-
ease; and while his mind revolted from sus-
picions that seemed ludicrous, Isabel’s dis-
like, her mother’s strange coldness at that
(Continued on next page)


»'?«*•
Peps Guard
Throat & Lungs.
Everyone needs Peps at this time
of the year, because this scientific
breathable medicine in tablet form
gives just the help Nature requires
to fight against the hidden perils of
chilly July, when the weather is
treacherous. Be it only a husky
Cough, a slight irritation in the
throat* or just a suspicion of pain
and soreness about the chest, it is
time to take a few Peps, which are
entirely different from old-fashioned loz-
enges and drug-laden mixtures, but infinitely
more effective.
The Peps way of stopping chest troubles is Nature’s
way. As the little brown tablet dissolves in the
mouth, the medicinal pine*air is released in the form of
fumes which mix with the breath and thus convey a valuable
soothing and strengthening agent direct through the bronchial
tubes to the lungs, which cannot be reached by liquid mixtures that are
simply swallowed into the stomach.
A Comforting Glow in tHe CHest,
as the Peps fumes enter, stimulates the whole of the breathing organs, and
means defence against coughs, colds and chills, which, unresisted, would
work havoc with the strongest constitution. The Peps fumes are not
merely antiseptic, but germicidal. They destroy the cold-germ, protect the
delicate lining membrane of the throat and bronchial tubes from dangerous
infection, and positively arrest chest trouble in its earliest stage.
There can be no finer safeguard against the perils of July’s chilly days
than Peps, which are a unique concentration of the particular medicines
which Nature has furnished for the treatment of human throat and chest
ailments. Peps contain no opium or other harmful drugs, and are as
useful to the apparently robust as they are absolutely indispensable to the
weak-chested and convalescent. PEPS NIP A COLD IN THE BUD.
PEPS GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS
Peps, the unequalled
remedy for Throat
and Chest co m-
plaints, are obtain-
able from all chem-
ists, at 1/6 and 3/-
per box; or direct
from Fulford (A’sia)
ltd., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
I
“THE TRUE BREATHING CURE.'
»
%
' Slip the
Strop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
renewals, and the time and trouble in
cleaning which every other safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compris-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safety razor, first quali ty
Valet horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
"Valet'' blades, the
whole n handsome
leather - covered or
nickel case, lined 9 O 1C
velvet and satin
meeting upstairs, and many other things,
were all inexplicable. . ,
Once, gazing on the baby as it slept, be
traced in the immature features a resem-
blance to Drummond ; and although he men-
tally trampled upon the thought, and bend-
ing over the child with a feeling of sel>-
reproach for an imagined wrong kissed it,
the idea haunted him in a ghostly fashion.
So Drummond's persistent inquiries about
the child irritated, instead of pleasing, him.
He felt that there was a mystery about the
changed relations towards Drummond, who
now never came to his house, and avoided the
invitations he formerly extended ; yet about
it all he could make no inquiries. The rest-
lessness of liis mind bred in him a strange
sickness; and so it was that one afternoon
he stole home to nurse a headache, and was
lying upon a bed, with the door open, when
he heard Drummond’s voice below.
Involuntarily lie sprang from the bed and
went cautiously to the landing in time to
hear his wife's voice, ringing coldly and
haughtily.
“Yon asked for my mother,’ she said, erne
will not see you.”
“Then I must see you,” he said. “Let us
leave the hall, and talk.”
“I have asked you not to come here." she
said. “Will you be good enough to go?”
“It’s the child. 1 don’t know how it is,
but I've developed a fondness for that child ;
and I want to see it.”
Tom gripped the balustrade, and liis heart
surged with horrible emotions.
“You are behaving like a cad in coming
here like this.” spoke the cold anger of his
wife. “You have behaved like a cad all
through. My husband is worth a hundred of
you; and lie loves the baby.”
“It is not liis child!” said Drummond.
Tom was at the foot of the stairs facing
him before he knew what he was doing.
“Go, you blackguard, quickly!” he said.
The next instant he was alone with Isabel.
Taking her with a savage grip by the wrist
he drew her into the nearest room and
closing the door turned fiercely upon her.
“As you said, I love the child!” he cried.
“Not my child —what does it mean?”
For the first time in his life he saw her
distraught with emotion, and, somehow, even
if the emotion was only terror, that fact
satisfied his fury. And yet it did not seem
only terror.
“Oh, Tom !” she exclaimed. “I am sorry!”
“Sorry!” he echoed. “What is the use of
sorrow! I know that I have never possessed
you. but I thought the child was mine! It
shall be mine! Whatever happens, the child
shall love me. I will exact my revenge from
Drummond in that. And you, whatever you
deserve, I will protect you from scandal, for
the honor of the family.”
His voice sank from fury into contempt.
She had fallen, no longer a haughty
woman, but frightened and quivering, upon
a couch.
“Tom, dear!” she cried, in a sudden
appeal. “Will you listen while I explain?”
“There is no need for explanation,” he
said, bitterly. “I understand things now.”
She rose in her old haughtiness suddenly.
“What do you think of me?” she
demanded. “What do you dare think of me?”
Then, just as suddenly, she unbended, laid
her hands upon his arms with a grasp that
his disdainful gesture could not release, and
looked at him with an imperative appeal.
“Tom! Tom, dear! Will you listen? You
are unjust to me !”
“The child is not mine!” he said.
“Yes, but, Tom, it is not mine!” she
added, eagerly.
“What?” he exclaimed.
“Listen, Tom, listen,” she said, in a fren-
zied hurry. “I know I was wrong—l have
deceived you. But it was all for the honor
of the family. I had to shield her—it
seemed a way out; and so I agreed. The
baby is my mother’s!”
Her words staggered him, but in liis
astonishment was contemptuous disbelief.
“It’s truth, Tom: truth! Drummond
behaved like a cad all through, and would
not marry her, though now he wants to. She
did not know what to do to avoid disgrace,
and she suggested—what we did. Oh. I
have deceived you, hut do not think I am
worse than I am; it was all to save my
mother. Over there she passed as Isabel
Poynter; the child is registered as yours and
mine.”
“As yours and mine!” he exclaimed with
a certain tinge of exultation in his voice.
“Is this the truth, Isabel?”
“Come with me to mother’s.” she begged
eagerly. “She will confess —she must con-
fess ! . Even if you disown the child, and
there is a scandal, she must confess it.”
“The child is ours,” he said, steadily.
Then, suddenly, he put his arms about her :
and the old coldness seemed to have thawed
as her arms went over his shoulders, and her
lips went up to his.
HAMER.
The Millionburrina Cup.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nVT° cloul,t bout Jt Jimmy Warren had
bad luck.
There were only half a dozen of us
white men on the station, with some two-
score or so black boys; and it was neces-
sary to maintain a rigid discipline.
We were two hundred miles from the
nearest township and police barracks, and
were, therefore, more or less a law unto
ourselves.
We had finished a muster and handed over
a fine lot of fats to the drover, and Jimmy
had been sent down the creek to pilot the
outfit off the run, whilst the rest of us made
tracks for the home station. It was only
a fortnight to Christmas, and we intended,
after a few days at the station, to go on to
the little bush township two hundred miles
up the creek, where a picnic race-meeting
had been arranged for the holiday season.
Jimmy joined us two days later,
looking glum and dispirited, and on being
questioned it came out that he had acci-
dentally killed the drover’s blackboy. If
appealed that the drover and his men had
gone on with the cattle off camp in the early
morning, leaving Jimmy and the hoy 1 P a 'k
up and follow with the outfit. The boy, a
cheeky, spoilt heathen, whom only the pre-
sence of his boss had protected on sundiy
occasions, got “fresh” when Jimmy told him
to get a move on, and eventually put his
head in the way of a bridle with a bar bit,
which had James on the other end of it. 11
bar perforated the top of the boy s skull, and
he passed in his checks forthwith. The in-
furiated drover had gone south, vowing ven-
geance, and Jimmy was expecting trouble.
Three evenings later we were playing ‘ nap
in the hut when there came the quick thud
of galloping horses in the sand, the rattle ot
swinging hobbles, and a loud “Coo-ee. tiom
the direction of the stockyard. Then a
form appeared in the open doorway. As he
stepped into the room, everyone recognised
Carter, the police trooper from YY oolgooloo,
and poor Jim looked sick. ‘ I want you,
.Tim,” said Carter. "Charge of murder. VYiU
you behave yourself, or do you want these
on?” producing a pair of handcuffs.
As Jim gave his word not to attempt to
escape, Carter agreed to go on with us to the
township and take the coach from there to
the railway line. Next morning our horses
were brought in from the camp, where one ot
our number, with the assistance of a couple
of “boys.” had for some two months past
been assiduously training our most fancied
prads; and we started on the long road in
such joyous expectation of a long-anticipated
holiday that not even the cloud hanging over
poor old Jim could long subdue the optimism
of our little party.
We camped at a waterliole about two
miles from the township on Christmas Eve,
and, after seeing that our racehorses were on
good, feed, we had a bite and rode on to
the township to find out what was doing,
leaving two “boys” in charge of the camp.
The township consisted merely of a pub, a
store and the police station, and as we rode
past the store we found, to our surprise, no
sign of light or life about the place. Just as
we drew past the outbuildings of the store
we got a muffled hail out of the darkness, and
promptly pulled up. A man then emerged
cautiously from the shadow of the building,
and, being satisfied as to our respectability,
came nearer and unfolded his tale. He, it
appeared, was the storekeeper, and he was
the most wrathful and blasphemous store-
keeper in the whole Australian bush. He
told us that a gang of “forties” (spielers),
about fifteen, he said, had come into the
town two days previously, and had taken
possession of the place. One policeman was
dead drunk, and the other, who had
attempted to stop the game, they had shut
up in a four-hundred-gallon tank near the
pub. “Damn it,” he said, “if you don’t
believe me, listen!” and, sure enough, we
could hear on the still evening air, a
boom! boom! as of a distant drum. The
publican was locked up in his own bedroom,
and the gang had possession of the house,
and served free drinks to all hands. They
had terrorised our friend the storekeeper into
giving them such articles as they wanted
from the store, and had so frightened his wife
and daughters that they had taken refuge in
the cellar; and he was afraid to light up for
fear of attracting the drunken crowd. A few
of the hands from round about, attracted by
unlimited free booze, were having a most
hilarious time at the pub ; others, who had
come in that day, had gone on to the station,
about a mile from the township, where a
meeting was being held that night to con-
coct measures to end the lawless rule that
had been set up. We promptly rode on to
the station to offer our services, and it may
be imagined that the sight of our uniformed
friend was very welcome to those who were
anxious to put a stop to the game that was
being played so boldly in the town.
We got back to the township about mid-
night, and made straight for the pub, guided
by the shouts and yells and other weird
noises. Our first objective was the prison
tank. We soon had the unfortunate con-
stable liberated; but he was too weak to be
of much use in the further proceedings. We
collared a couple of the spieler gentle-
men. who had been sitting on the tank guard-
ing their captive, and these were handcuffed
and left in the charge of a stockman, whilst
the rest of us moved on for an assault on
the pub. Posting men round the house the
trooper strode on to the verandah, and hailed
the crowd in the- bar to surrender forth-
with. A sudden silence fell on the men
within, broken by a bellowing voice that de-
manded to know who the blanky blank he
was. anyhow! Then a huge form blocked
the light from the bar. At once Carter called,
“Hands up, Scotty. I’ve got you covered,
and the game’s up!” The reply was a fierce
rumbling of oaths, as the big man stepped
on to the flagged verandah, and, stooping
quickly, picked up a large paving-stone in
both hands. He raised it above his head;
but as he poised it to hurl it at the trooper
a shot rang out, and he dropped, roaring
blasphemy. We soon had the rest of the
gang on the chain, the publican liberated
and the drunken policeman safely in bed :
and after a round of drinks “on the house”
to celebrate the occasion, business resumed
its normal course.
Of the race-meeting next day, with a tem-
perature of llfideg. in the bag, and the
fifteen dejected ruffians chained up to trees
round the course, of how we won the Mul-
lionburrina Cup, and of the wild and woolly
week that followed, my recollection is vague.
But one picture is burnt in upon my brain.
The race-meeting was over, the sun had at
last dipped below the sandhill, and as we
rode slowly round the course townwards
someone remembered the gallant fifteen, and
we stopped to see how they had fared. They
lay, each on his chain, at the foot of his
tree, and at our approach stirred not a limb.
Had our cow-punchers slain these reprobates
in righteous wrath! For a moment my
heart stopped beating, and then the truth
was made manifest. They had been well and
truly slain—they were dead-drunk' For
who shall escape the all-reaching hospitality
of the Australian busliman at his own
Christmas race-meeting?
.Timmy? Oh. yes, he got three months, and
afterwards went to South Africa and fought
through the Boer War; and if he didn’t
come back, old as he is, he has probably
heen chasing Germans over the veldt. But.
wherever he is, I’m game to bet you he’s not
using a bar-bit.
THE WAYFARER.


■' I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
o
en£
r
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves 5 per cent, on
Automobile
Fire Insurance.
Price 55/- each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61*».; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD,
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
THE FAMOUS
AMERtCA'S 51M0ARD FOUR-CYCII!
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders —4 cycle — medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A,
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working.
It will convince you; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 3§ Pitt St., Sydney.
* mks.
No
trouble.
In every household there
comes the sudden emergency
when a child is seedy—a
husband is home late—
a wife has to be put on a
specially light diet. That is
the moment when Horlick’s
Malted Milk comes in so
handily. It is no trouble
to make, always proves
palatable, and can be given
with impunity to sick child,
tired husband, or dyspeptic
wife unhesitatingly, as it has
all the required ingredients
(Milk, Wheat and Malt) to
meet each case.
Ask for Horlick’s
Malted Milk at the
Soda Fountain
Write for sample, sending
2d. in stamps, to Hutchin-
son & Co. Ltd., 26 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd., Lome
Street, Auckland, & Dixon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
HO RUCK’S
MALTED MILK
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Davy Then.
Used since 15h6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
8, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England^
Insist on “Singleton’s”— refuse all substitutes.
m
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—when you feel ‘ 1 any-h ow”
—when your nerves are “on
edge ” —when the least exer-
tion tires you—you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘ Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a “run-down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a lour-iold
Bower. It is a Toniq, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food —all in one.
Therefore
TV
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘Wincarnis’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need
Begin to get well
TO-BAY.
Wincarnis is made in England
by 00L1SMAN & CQ., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works," Norwich. You can
buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists
and Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and 7/-, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street, Sydney. N.S.W-
-5S
ft
7
Ov
nr?
%
%
m.
El
I’VE FOUND MV
KECHAMSHkU
safeguard your health
QtJ.ColHs Browne's
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in tiie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPA SM S and
COLIC.
A well-preved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHAUM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, Sh, 5/'.
Made in England.
iftvV
, v
»
S.B.
COME UP TO
THE SimSHIHE
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge,
the wonderful hmterland.
Sunshine, Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about tl
is yours for the asking
ft// in fhtS coupon:-
/fame
. . ' ' ' - .
7*> ffio Director of
Intelliaence & Tourist Bureau
m
m
m
I
:;
The BEST-MADE ENGINE in the W
would work inefficiently if its Sparking Plugs were unsatisfactory.
m
DG
m
Our Sparking Plugs
are the product of the
Best English and
American Manufacturers
And we Guarantee Satisfaction.
EODGE Sparking Plugs, in Metric, Sin., $ x 18, A.L.A.M., 5/- each.
„ for “Fords,” 5/- each.
SPHINX „ 3 point in Metric, and Sin., 3/3 each.
” tf „ in 1 x 18, 3/9 ea.; 1 point, Metric, 3/- ea.
CHAMPION Sparking Plugs, “Ford X,” 3/3 ea.; Hy. Duty, 8/3 ea.; Hy. Stone, 5/- ea. in
Metric, Sin. £ x 18.
„ “Reliance,” Sparks in Water, 5/6 ea.; Platinum Points, 6/6 ea.
“No. 1,” 3/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Extended,” 3/3 ea.
” ”, No. 1. Mica, 3/9; “Giant” Mica, 5/-; for Metz, 3/3 ea.
’ „ “Vesuvius” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz, 4/6; Ordinary, 4/6.
REFEEX
MOSEER
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
SPECIAL PRICES FOR QUANTITIES.
Robert C. Swan Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. »


MANGROVTT
LEATHER
SlLflUi
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
The Mine Manager’s Friend
The Celebrated “An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Mining Steel.
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
Supplied
in OCTAGON and
CRUCIFORM SOLID SECTIONS,
HEXAGON and ROUND HOLLOW SECTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Chemicals
Best Prices from Stock or Indent.
Soda Ash
Caustic Soda
Sulphide of Sodium
Alum
Sulphate Alumina
Borax
Hypo Soda
Naphthaline
Bicarb Soda
Bichromate Soda
Carbolic
etc., etc.
British Aniline Dyes.
JAMES HARDIE 8 CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 13
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing- an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE,'
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
PERMASITE
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
INSULATORS.
POTTERY-WARE.
test Porcelain, for the Electrical Trade.
High-grade Hygienic Jugs, Teapots, etc.
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.*.
9 QUEEN STREET. MELBOURNE. [3
£•
QPt
4
C
,aUi« Map*
Vi
o
o
ar
v:
SON^
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: 11b., 50/-: Jib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
Cast-Iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Virtoria.
BARGAINS in OIL ENGINES
All Sizes. 1£ to 12* h.p.
m
K
a
“Big Chief.”
AMERICA’S BEST.
Field Type (W).
A HIGH-GRADE ENGINE.
2 to 5 h.p.
Fairbanks, stosh p.
Obtain full particulars before ordering
elsewhere.
CASH OR EASY TERMS".
R.L.SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
■
0
m
~4
m
n
«i
.■:n
HI
V* Sc**
gs;i
iflVSfl
■B
lia
mi
mm
; 'ii
&J*g
I
»ri if
r zj3agggß§
%
1 ■ SB*
i
iiv uoj ihoii o/uio ns
DEICO-LIGHT
$0 SIMPLE A CHILD CAE
OPERATE IT?
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand-
SOLEACENTS:
3.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
UEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
PP'SBANE.
ORLD’S
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
Type "Z”
1917
Model.
Sole Agents:
FARM ENGINE
FEATURES—
WORKS ON KEROSENE .... which means Fuel Economy.
STARTS ON PETROL which means Quick Start —No Waiting.
THROTTLE GOVERNED .... which means Uniform Speed—No “Cut Out.”
GEAR-DRIVEN MAGNETO . . which means Hot Spark—Nothing Better.
MECHANICAL SPARK PLUG which means Fewer Spark Plus: Troubles.
SPEED REGULATOR which means the Speed You Want.
OUR PRICES which mean Best Engine Value ever offered.
ASK FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
DANGAR, GEDYE 8 CO. LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
SUCCESSFUL FLOTATION.
DORR AGITATOR (PATENTED), DORR CLASSIFIER (PATENTED), DORR THICKENER (PATENTED).
If you are interested in making a success of the Flotation process, why not follow the
example of nearly every large and small mine in America and adopt Dorr Appliances ?
The Dorr Cyanide Appliances are in use in EVERY treatment plant
in Broken Hill as well as other large Australian mines.
SOLE LICENSEES AND MANUFACTURERS FOR AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD. City Office: Equitable Building:, 350 Qeorgie St, Sydney.
