

Tfcww a The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
Machinery Merchants,
Kent street, Sydney,
107
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New an econ - a
HEfSwWr!
L r~r rr nr rr
JLV
61*
Gfi
On all Classes of Security
811/CiS DISCOUNTED
Easylems Interest
NSVMCNTDE PIETE-D&I-C?17P
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY 74.
Next to "Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
df
"Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty'
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN j
$ Made in Australia h/ y
FPEDtBItKSTEAHHSiC?
SYDNEY.
ITTHM
“PINEAPPLE" HAMS & BACI
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
unitet,
s
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
.most beneficially when taken daily after
meals. v '
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
CHUBBS
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
■m
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
for a better roof.
‘‘Not the same as others
It has successfully withstood dry heat, heavy rainfall,
excessive humidity and all climatic extremes.
Malthoid is warm in winter; cool in summer; does
not leak or blow off in a gale.
Write NOW for samples and illustrated booklet, post
free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L
locomotive, general 3c agricultural engineers,
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
- -- —■ tastings.
ROAD ME’AL & FARM WAGGONS.
IRON 8c MALLEABLE,
O SHREDDER DISCS.
GRANVILLE.
N.S.W.
0
V
&
MACHINERY
“Robey” High-class Steam Engines, “National” Gas, Oil and Suction Gas
Engines Steam Waggons, Road Graders, Scoops and Plows, Nestable Corru-
gated Metal Culverts, Concrete Mixers, Discus Church Organ Blowers, Malleable
Pipe Fittings, etc., etc. ALSO MODERN MACHINERY FOR Road Building,
Earth Handling, Elevating and Conveying, Stone Breaking and Pumping and
Irrigating. Drawings and Suggestions gratis upon receipt of Requirements.
Head Office: Circular Quay, SYDNEY .
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY GO. LTD., Charlotte Street
riPAi run
TOOTH Gives a Sense of Clean
Ag >-T-er to thP iWouthT
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
Clr>\xjorg
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vd. 38.—N0. 1934.]
[Thursday, March 8, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


< i
The Round Table”
DECEMBER, 1916.
A REVIEW of British and Dominion Politics.
iV The Dominions and the British War Council.
Necessity for Constitutional Reform. Higher Direc-
tion of British Industry. The Labor Point of View.
Trade Union Congress. Australia. India. Ireian
since the Rebellion. 2/6 per copy; 10/- per annum
MACMILLAN & CO., Melbourne.
YOUR LAST OPPORTUNITY to Purchase a copy of the
ANZAC BOOK
The final supplies are now to hand. When the edition is exhausted it is estimated only one person
in every 600 in Australia will be the lucky possessor of a copy. If you would be the one of the 500
you will have to order by return post or lose the opportunity of possessing the most unique book the
world has produced, a book that even before the war ends money will not be able to purchase. We will
allot the copies available to purchasers in order of precedence. It is handsomely bound in cloth, and is a
lasting tribute to the men who have been described as the bravest things God ever made.
The Price is 6/6; posted, 7/-
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George Street. SYDNEY;
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
non poisonous mot*.
THE GREAT INSECT OESTROyER.
( Fl ics.
} Fleas.
) Bugs.
S Mosquitoes,
no
**> 9.
dfs
“MUSTDIE”
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecticide
or common insect powders, some of which are so
under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE” contains
an ingredient particularly fatal to that common
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post free,
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MtJSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
9d. per tin.
The Red Page
"Banjo” Once More
The Road to Hogan’s Gap.
Note look, you see, it’s this way like,
You cross the broken bridge
And run the crick down till you strike
The second right-hand ridge.
The track is hard to see in parts,
lint still it’s pretty clear ;
There’s been two In jin hawkers’ carts
Along that road this year.
Well, run that right-hand ridge along —
It ain't, to say, too steep —
There’s two fresh tracks might put you icrong
Where blokes went out with sheep.
But keep the crick upon your right,
And follow pretty straight
Along the spur, until you sight
A wire and sapling gate.
Well, that’s where Hogan’s old grey mare
Fell off and broke her backj
You’ll see her carcase layin’ there,
Jist down below the track.
And then you drop two mile, or three,
lt’s pretty steep and blind;
You xcant to go and fall a tree
And tie it on behind.
And then you pass a broken cart
Below a granite bluff;
And that is where you strike the part
They reckon pretty rough.
But by the time you've got that far
It’u either cure or kill,
So turn your horses round the spur
And face ’em up the hill.
For look, if you should miss the slope
And get below the track,
You haven’t got the whitest hope
Of ever gettin' back.
And half-way up you'll see the hide
Of Hogan’s brindled bull;
Well, mind and keep The right-hand side,
The left’s too steep a pull.
And both the banks is full of cracks;
An’ just about at dark
You’ll see the last year's bullock tracks
Where Hogan drew the baric.
The marks is old and pretty faint
And grown icith scrub and such;
Of course the track to Hogan’s ain’t
A road that’s travelled much.
But turn and run the tracks along
For half a mile or more,
And then, of course, you can’t go wrong —»
You’re right at Hogan’s door.
When first you come to Hogan’s gate
He mightn’t show, perhaps;
He’s pretty sure to plant and wait
To see it ain’t the traps.
I wouldn’t call it good enough
To let your horses out;
There’s some that’s pretty eqtra rough
Is livin’ round about.
It’s likely if your horses did
Get feedin ’ near the track,
It’s goin’ to cost at least a quid
Or more to get them back.
So, if you find they’re off the place,
It’s up to you to go
And flash a quid in Hogan’s face —•
He’ll know the blokes that know.
But, listen, if you’re feelin’ dry,
Just see there’s no one near,
And go and wink the other eye
And ask for ginger-beer.
The blokes come in from near and far
To sample Hogan’s pop;
They reckon once they breast the bar
They stay there till they drop....
They’re lively blokes all right up there,
It’s never dull a day.
I’d go meself if I could spare
The time to get away.
The stranger turned his horses quick.
He didn’t cross the bridge;
He didn’t go along the crick
To strike the second ridge;
He didn’t make the trip, because
He tvasn’t feeling fit.
His business up at Hogan’s was
To serve him with a writ.
He reckoned if he faced ilie pull
And climbed the rocky stair,
The next to come might find his tide
A land-mark on the mountain side,
Along with Hogan’s brindled bull
And Hogan’s old grey mare!
“Banjo” Paterson, in “Saltbush Bill, J.P.,
and Other Verses.”
It is a long time since. Australia heard the
song of “The Banjo.” After those haunting
melodies, The Man from Snowy River and
Rio Grande, apparently A. B. Paterson hung
his banjo over the mantelpiece. The owner
has been in Egypt 'for the past 18 months,
too busy for banjo songs: evidently the
banjo is still hanging over the mantelpiece
at home. But there were many songs that
Paterson thrummed in those old days,
thrummed and forgot. And many others
that he had' composed recently—in the
old “Banjo” way. A wise old publisher,
Angus and Robertson, remembered some of
those haunting strains and set out to collect
them. He found them in corners of The
Bulletin and other publications, though if
he had taken the trouble he would have
doubtless found many of them in the hearts
of Australians. So, though the banjo is
now covered with dust- and thick with
memories, the gramophone records of those
'scattered songs are now available. Saltbush
Bill, J.P., and Other i'erses is now published
in the useful pocket, or trench, edition in
which the other two books of “Banjo” have
found favor, price 4s. A feature of these
three volumes is that the index of titles
and of first lines includes the whole of
Paterson’s verse-output, so that a “Banjo”
lover can find in which volume his favorites
appear. Saltbush Bill, J.P., lias a cover-illus-
tration in color by Lionel Lindsay and
delightful endpapers by Sydney Ure Smith.
Without comparison with his own publica-
tions, it may be said that in Saltbush Bill,
J.P., there is the genuine “Banjo.” The long
piece quoted above—quite recently written,
by the way—has been chosen not for
its literary qualities, but for its essential
“Banjo” note. Were one to stress the liter-
ary quality of this collection, it would be
hard not to quote his “Song of the Pen,”
with its:
Not unto us is given choice of the tasks we
try,
Gathering grain or chaff ;
One of her favored servants toils at an epic
high,
One, that a child may laugh.
Or one could hardly , pass by his “Song of
the Wheat,” with its:
Furrow by furrow, and fold by fold,
The soil is turned on the plain;
Better than silver and better than gold
Is the surface-mine of the grain;
Better than cattle and better than sheep
In the fight with drought and heat,
For a streak of stubbornness, wide and deep,
Lies hid in a grain of Wheat.
And its inimitable picture :
When the burning harvest sun sinks low,
And the shadows stretch on the plain,
The roaring strippers come and go
Like ships on a sea of grain.
But it is the homely, shrewd, grim, common-
sense Australian humor that is the note' of
the genuine “Banjo”—-those little jewelled
jokes just five words long that only do we
hear in “Banjo’s” song. And of this humor
there is plenty. “Saltbush Bill on the
Patriarchs” is a delightful story of Jacob,
the cunning overseer for that big squatter,
Laban.
Now, Jacob knew the -ways of stock — that’s
most uncommon clear —-
For when lie got to Laban’s Run they made
him overseer;
He didn’t ask a pound a iceek, but bargained
for his pay
To take the roan and strawberry calves —the
same we’d twice to-day ....
So when he’d done the station work for close
on seven year,
Why, all the choicest stock belonged to
Laban's overseer.
And Saltbush Bill concludes with a pious
hope:
But if I keep the narrer path, some day, per-
haps, I’ll know
llow Jacob bred them strawberry calves three
thousand years ago.
Of the bush there are some delightful
.yarns, of the racing track there are more,
and even “Gent. One” provides humor for
the city-dweller. Somehow, this page has
the suspicion that this is emphatically the
book for Billjim, somewhere in France or
somewhere in the suburbs of Jerusalem, or
somewhere in the Bush.
Americant
Gerald Stanley Lee, author of Croivds, In-
spired Millionaires and other assorted Ameri-
can noises, comes along with his 700-page
“Study of what England and Europe can
Expect of America during and after the
war: a Yow of the American People to the
World and a Confession of their Faith in
the People of All Nations.” This modest
gospel he terms We (Allen and Unwin, per
Dymock’s Library). We contains 57 vari-
eties of the large, oozy sentimentalism of the
United States; it is full of the American wor-
ship of advertisement; it has horrible things
to say of Roosevelt, Carnegie and Rocke-
feller ; and it is 500 pages too long; yet there
are in it strata of original thinking and even
paragraphs of- wisdom. He has a thousand
things to say about the war, and says each
of them nine times. We is of inestimable
value neither for its argument nor its freak-
ish but forcible style, but for the unconscious
exposure its author makes of the vast, sodden
sentimentality of the United States. Unless
we reckon with that mentally female element
in the American we do not know him; and
not. to know him will be mighty incon-
venient in the immediate future.
“The war in Europe is a stupendous break-
down of the European languages. Machines
have got ahead of words. Our machinery
for fighting... .had been perfected, and our
machinery for talking, our vast engines of
mutual understanding, had hardly begun to
be set up... .Any great nation that is so
placed that it has got to express 50,000,000
people in a few hours or die. finds out in a
hurry that the facilities in this present world
for expressing 50,000,000 people to
300,000.000 other people, and getting all the
expression in before 12 p’clock that night, are
very inadequate The only big machine
any nation in Europe had provided itself
with for the emergency of expressing itself
all at once, all in one huge crash in a day,
was the army machine. The nations are not
trying to annihilate each other or to express
their hatred of each other. They are trying to
annihilate each other’s machines.... Each
nation recognises the fact that it has out-
grown using its hate machine itself. But it
thinks the others have not outgrown theirs.
....England is saying: ‘We will annihilate
Germany’s hate machine. Then it will be
safe to throw away ours.’ ”
S
So Lee's argument is to make the nations
known to each other, to advertise. “Blowing
a man’s attention up does not get it. Even
if the gun hits him it merely scatters his
attention about.” And how is America going
to advertise herself as a nation that is too
busy to fight? “Over against the Krupp gun
America puts forth the Ford car... .Motor-
cars and harvesting-machines shall go wheel-
ing about, shall swing the fear of America—
a peaceful,, glorious and happy fear—through
all the earth.” Instead of spending any cash
on an army and a navy, Lee suggests that
America should buy a million Fcrrd cars and
send them out as advertisements of what
Americans are like to defend them against a
world. In effect, he purposes dumping a
million Fords upon the other nations! It
must be a very naive American who thinks
that unlimited dumping is either going to be
allowed or would make the recipient nation
feel good about America. And America can
have a clear conscience about Belgium : “This
nation does not propose to believe or to take
seriously or personally some of the things
that are happening to other nations to-day.
We propose to have different things-happen.”
Thinking he has reduced war to an absurd-
ity, Lee suggests that instead of arming her-
self America should meet an enemy when he
comes to shoot, by lining up thousands of
Sunday-school children. “Then let this
enemy shoot the Sunday-school children if
they dare.” Lee has quite forgotten that
this is precisely what happened in Belgium.
The Germans not only murdered Belgian
Sunday-school children: they committed even
worse horrors. It is true that Lee wants the
murder to be filmed, with delegates from all
the nations in reserved seats to watch. And
he would get the name and address of
each murderer. Well, the Allies have prac-
tically got the names and addresses of the
Germans who murdered and raped Belgian
Sunday-school children, and that information
has been presented to the other nations—in-
cluding the United States. But it didn’t
exactly defend Belgium against the Huns,
nor prompt the United States to interfere.
Curious that Lee has apparently forgotten
all about it. Doubtless he overlooked it, as
it did not appear in the advertising columns.
Then Lee still holds the funny idea that an
unprotected woman is always quite safe —•
even from the Hun. But when he advises
the American woman to advertise her lack
of protection he takes a risk: it is quite
possible that the American woman has heard
what happened to the unprotected Belgian
woman whose only shield was her helpless-
ness. His bright idea for American defence
is to refuse to fight with arms, and “then
proceed to whip everybody in sight. . • .by
standing and looking at them and folding
our arms!” This idea is presented to the
- Win-the-War League as an easy way out of
our troubles.
And yet America, or Gerald Stanley Lee,
can say: “If two nations want to fight on
this planet now, Uncle Sam says they must
go out and fight behind the barn.” They
must not get in Uncle’s way. “This,” says
Lee, “is what being a neutral is like.” It is
what at least one neutral is like. “We are
not going to be caught up, 3000 miles across
the sea, into the international hydrophobia.
....We are the Red Cross nation....We
have become the altar people, the confes-
sional people. ...” Yet the Huns have been
known to shell the Red Cross and desecrate
altars.
JC
Finally, Gerald Stanley Lee puts forth his
other panacea, made in the U.S.A. It is :
“Not a dollar for self-defence, millions to
defend a world.” He suggests that America
should build an armament and hand it over
as a present to the world, a kind of World
Policeman, to defend all nations. Well, it’s
a very nice, sentimental idea; but how is it
to be carried out? What sort of a fight
would the U.S.A. military or naval or
aerial policeman put up against one nation
that ran amok? Gerald Stanley Lee appar-
ently thinks that all you have to do to make
an army or a navy is to build the guns and
the ships and recruit the men. America
starting out to police the nations would look
too much like one cop., armed with his
baton, confronting a gang of expert mur-
derers armed with revolvers and bombs and
poison-gas. Before the U.S.A. can enroll
herself as a world-cop. she will, have to prove
that she knows her job, and the unarmed
Sunday-school children and the unprotected
women that Gerald Stanley Lee offers as his
first line of defence won’t help that cop. very
much. Obviously the first thing for the
U.S.A. to do is to suppress Gerald Stanley
Lee, and thus advertise to the other nations
that America is not solely inhabited by
Gerald Stanle- t ,„>«
The Jew
Judging by their latest novels, Gilbert
Caiman is a much more important novelist
than Arnold Bennett. Bennett’s The Lion’s
Share (Cassell, per Sydney Book Club) is a
light, interesting yarn of the usual'Arnold
Bennett female, treated with a detail that
threatens to become niggling—just the aver-
age . easily written and easily read yarn.
Gilbert Caiman’s Mendel (Unwin, per
Dymock’s Library) cannot be so comfort-
ably put into a category. It is not only a
sincere study of youth, but a remarkable
realistic portrait of a remarkable youth. And
there is a feeling of exhilaration both in the
writing and the theme. It is a book throb-
bingly alive; Arnold Bennett’s is partially
dead, but beautifully preserved.
Mendel is an Austrian Jew, brought to
London, when a boy, by his immigrant
mother. Being Jews, the family manage to
make a living in the Jewish quarter of-
London ; but Mendel is a genius. Through
the interest he arouses in his richer com-
patriots Mendel is started on his career as
an artist. Cannan does not make him a
hero; to the last Mendel remains a some-
what unpleasant Jew. His struggles to
achieve his ambition are described with an
intimate sympathy that could come only
from the author’s curiously close knowledge
of Mendel’s surroundings. Equally interest-
ing and actual are the scenes of bohemian
life in London, and the experiences, not only
with women, that go jo the making of Men-
del’s character and his art. The women
have red blood in their veins; there is a pro-
cession of girls, from Hetty Finch, the girl
who knew what she wanted and got it in a
shamelessly direct woman’s way, to the
mistress of Mendel’s friend, the • extraordi-
nary Logan. Only one woman lacks passion,
though perhaps it would be sr.fcr to say her
passion is more mental than physical. One
curious characteristic of Caiman’s is his
brusque habit of calling the women by their
family names, as though they were men.
And though naturally the topic of love in-
terests Mendel and his friends, and Cannan
treats of their love affairs with frankness, he
does not obtrude that frankness, which is
itself almost disarming, since he is even more
interested in the development of Mendel and
his art. Mendel’s Jewishness is both a
strength and a weakness in his life and his
art. “I am very lonely because I am a
Jew, and people do not understand me, or,
rather, they think they understand me
because I am a Jew. They, think all Jews
are the same. It is very rarely that I feel
.1 am accepted as a man with thoughts, feel-
ings, tears, laughter, tastes, bowels, senses
like any other man... .You have only to live
in a world that is ready-made for you. I
have to make mine as I go, step by step.
... .The ordinary world is not utterly foreign
to you. You do not find that which you were
brought up to believe, the wisdom you sucked
in with your mother’s milk, completely
denied.” • , . '
Mendel’s progress in art is also described,
as it were, from the inside. All seems going
well with this pushing young genius, despite
his occasional defeats, until he meets the
modernist artists, especially Cdzanne and
Picasso, The shock of these post-impression-
ists, shown at the famous first exhibition in
London, affects * Mendel so much that, “He
went home and dashed off a savage mother
with a green face thrusting a straw-colored
breast into the gaping red lips of a child
So much for maternity and the Madonnas!
He knew now how much a man loved his
mother, and it was not in that milky way,
setting her above nature, she who was tied
and bound to natural, instinctive life. If a
man loved his mother, it was because with
her it was the easiest thing in the world to
be intimate and frank and honest and with-
out pretence of any kind.” Mendel, abashed
by Cezanne, learns that he is no longer free.
Thus Cezanne’s portrait of his mother affects
him: “It held him and fascinated him, and
yet it looked almost like the unfinished work
of an amateur who could not draw. Of
psychological interest the picture was bare.
.. , .The woman was set on the canvas with-
out reference to anything in heaven or earth,
or any idea, or any emotion or desire....So
perfect a vision had no need to be tender or
affectionate or sensual, or to call in aid any
of the emotions of 1ife....1t gave human
beings a new value.”
Artists will be interested. In the por-
traits of the models and mistresses and Men-
del’s father and his mother, Cannan has done
thoroughly satisfying work. But the heroine
remains a slightly unconvincing girl, misty
and vague—-as probably she was to herself.
But the book as a whole is an achievement,
individual and colorful. Here, _at last, the
Gilbert Cannan, so long occupied with his
. dogged struggle with his medium, the printed
word, has “come through.” He has always
had something to say. Now -lie has found
out how to say it.


CLatfyftt/Jtofdefasfiije
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
the Out-hoard Boat Motor.
li
An L-A Outboard Boat Motor, as
illustrated, is a necessity for those
who own a rowing boat. By its
use a pulling boat can be converted
into a motor-launch in a few
minutes. The complete contrivance
weighs but 051 b., and is fixed to the
stern of a boat by two thumb-screws.
It is exceptionally well made, and the
engine develops 2ih.p. on a very low
consumption of oil, a speed of from 2 to S miles
per hour being obtained. The bronze propeller is
Pin. in diameter. The fly-wheel, on the top of the
motor, contains a high-tension magneto, and but
two or three turns of the fly-wheel suffice to start the
engine. The rudder, also of bronze, is fitted out-
side the propeller, and is worked by means of a
lever. The engine is reversible —an important
consideration—but is not complicated. It is so
compact and complete that a nine-year-old boy or
girl can do as well with it as a “grown-up.” The
material used in the construction of the motor is
chosen for its adaptability to its particular work,
based upon the makers’ experience of ten years in the
manufacture of marine engines. The exhaust is rendered almost noiseless
by the use of an expansion muffler, so situated that the burned gases are carried
aft and are freed at very near atmospheric pressure. The sharp bark is therefore
reduced to a “put-put” so light as to hardly be noticeable.
The price of the motor, complete, is £22/10/-
Why waste energy pulling your boat, when by such a low expenditure
boating can be made a positive pleasure.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Crushers and Shelters.
Ben tail’s Grain Crusher,
£5/7/6.
The No. 8 Corn Sheller,
illustrated, is a handy, reli-
able implement, which will deal
with 20 bushels hourly.
Price 85/-
No. 15, a two-hole Corn
Shelter, has a capacity by
hand of 25 bushels per hour,
and 60 bushels hourly if worked
by power.
Price
£B/10/-
Bent all's G.M.E. Grain Crusher will
kibble oats, barley, malt, maize and
dry beans. A peck of oats can be kibbled
in from 3 to 4 minutes, and 4801 b. maize
in an hour. It'has two wrought-iron, case-
hardened, grooved rollers, and is fitted
with a slip-plate for adjusting the feed
and a screw regulator; mounted on steel
legs, and furnished with a round hopper.
Price £5/7/6
No. 8 Corn Sheller, 85/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Reliable Ch&ffcutters.
mi
The Bentall CPC.
The Bentall CXB has a Rising
Mouth. Tfin. wide, with weight, and cuts
two lengths, -Jin. and Ain. It is fur-
nished with strong cast-iron legs, the
mouthpieces and the reversible worms to
regulate the cut being of specially chilled
iron. A most reliable cutter.
Price
£5/12/6
The BentaU CPC has a fixed mouth
THn wide, the mouthpieces being specially
chilled. It is mounted on a cast-iron open
column, cuts Jin., and is supplied with an
extra worm for cutting
Price
£4/5/-
The Bentall CXB
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Machine Tool Grinders.
Th „ Man on the Land requires something better than a file or an old-fashioned
Th % ‘ L„"e to his !oo,s in a condition « they
the work required of them. A Pike Machine such as is heie illustrated
supplies that want.
Pike Senior Model.
The Pike Peerless
Senior is a powerful, com-
pact grinding machine,
upon which a wide range
of work can be performed.
It is ’ equipped with a
<; x li in. Pure Corundum
Wheel, and by means of the
tool rest and chisel guide
chisels, plane irons, shears,
twist drills and cutters of
all kinds may be easily
sharpened. The grinder is
well built and is easily
worked, and does not get
out of order quickly.
Price 30 -
We also stock the Pike
Peerless Junior, built _on
similar lines to the Senior,
but smaller. It carries a
r> x 1 in. Pure Corundum
Wheel but it\ possesses the attractive features of the larger grinder.
2l-
/ '
Foot attachment for either model 7/- extra.
The Pike Whirlwind, another model, gives a high speed and \
It is geared 2«i to 1. and develops a periphery speed ot ovei 5000 feet ie
minute making it the fastest-running hand-power grinder constructed.
It stands 13ttn. high, and is supplied with an 8 x 1 in. Pure Cmundum
Wheel. An extremely useful grinder. Price, complete with tool rest DD\
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


««*Ej
.22 Caliber
Rifles and Cartridges
The pleasure of shooting a
.22 caliber rifle indoors or
outdoors depends not only-
on the skill of the shooter,
but upon the accuracy of
the equipment used. The
utmost care is taken in the
manufacture of Winchester
.22 caliber rifles and cart-
ridges, and for that reason
they shoot with invariable
accuracy. Winchester .22
caliber rifles are made in
various models and styles,
and Winchester .22 caliber
cartridges are loaded with
Smokeless, “Lesmok,” and
Black powder. It is there-
fore easy to suit your taste
and get the best possible
i equipment if you will select
the reliable w brand.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
n are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY' NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth
There fire no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible bj
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
t.
any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Beautiful Music
is always ready at hand when you own an
Edison Phonograph—which offers the least
expensive and best form of amusement that
you can have in the home.
The Edison
“Amfoerola”
is fitted with the diamond stylus reproducer, which does
away with the troublesome process of changing needles.
The “Amberola” 30, illustrated, has a cabinet of golden
oak; plays the famous Blue Amberol Records; is a
handsome instrument standing a little over 12 inches
high. Price £9/10/-
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a demonstration,
or write for illustrated catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
TRADE MARK
Great
Chances for
Sportsmen S Farmers!
FURTHER
REDUCTIONS.
6 ONLY D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with W. W. Greener patent wedge-fast crossbolt.
Usual Price, £5/15/-. SALK PRICE, £3/15/-
4 ONLY CHxIMPION lIAMMERLESS 11.8.8. L. GUNS, top action, walnut stock,
pistol grip, steel barrel. Usual Price, £lO. SALE PRICE, £6/6/-
6 ONLY 5.8.8. L. DUCIv GUNS, long distance, top action, kill at over 100
yards. Usual Price, £5. SALE PRICE, £3/10/-
FARMERS’ D.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 50/-. SALE PRICE, 27/6.
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 20/-
Colt’s Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
qR R*BR T Tsm»« i m * , AA J Usual Price, £O/6/-. SALE PRICE, £3/5/-
S.B. RABBIT RIFLES, kill at 100 yards. Usual Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6.
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue — Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CQ., 220 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
“I Consider Clements Tonic Superior to
any Medicine Sold in the Old Land.”
Mrs. E. PRATT, residing at No. 5 Olive Street, writes this very excellent
letter for the benefit of others—ls/4/’l6:
“I blame the passage out and the change of climate for upsetting my nerves
and causing my face to be tortured with neuralgia. It was painful at all times, but
to place my head on the pillow was unbearable! I tried medicine to no end
without relief.
“I heard much about Clements Tonic, one person after another telling me
that it was a sure relief for neuralgia and run-down nerves.
“I have tested it and proved the truth of their statements, as I am now
well. Use this as you think fit. “(Signed) Mrs. E. PRATT.”
Mrs. F. H. DAVIDSON, Harris Street, Paddington, N.S.W., sends the
following—lB/4/’l6:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD..
“Good health being the greatest asset we can have, impels me to write my
.experience of your wonderful medicine.
“It was only lately I heard about this remarkable remedy after I allowed
my health to be almost ruined through Indigestion and Insomnia.
“I have a strong feeling of gratitude for Clements Tonic, for it has assured
me good health in the future. “(Signed) Mrs. F. H. DAVIDSON.”
Mrs. S. BARRETT, 5 Hancock Street, Rozelle, N.S.W., writes:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“My illness was the result of a chill, followed by a severe attack of neuralgia,
and although I took all kinds of medicine and used liniments and other treat-
ments, I could get no relief from pain for more than a few weeks at a time.
This went on for five years. I gave up all hope of ever being cured.
“My mother, who was a nurse, came to see me, and brought a large bottle
of Clements Tonic. I took it more to please her, as I had no faith in anything.
Before I had finished the bottle I began to get better. I took five large bottles,
and have not suffered with neuralgia since, and that is yea’rs ago. My friends
were surprised, as they knew how bad I had been.
“(Signed) Mrs. S. BARRETT.”
Take it for Sick Headache and Neuralgia, or for Sluggish Liver, Consti-
pation, Loss of Sleep or Poor Appetite.
CLEMENTS TONIC is a necessary medicine for mankind, correcting the stomach, regulating the
bowels, invigorating the nerves, clearing the - brain, and purifying the blood. For 25 years it
has been the standard medical tonic of Australia, and .the thousands of testimonials received prove
its great efficacy.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


Riding Emperors.
' V! -;*»
AJXoden
Our Celebrated "IRONBARK
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitftd with the “A & S” special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price - - 14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/6 per pair.
Allan#Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Used the
World Over
d
fs
MOTOR
...CARS
CELEBRATED
23
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists' Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart. [1
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
dfs
Ten Days’ Trial allow'ed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyei
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£ 3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
QV3IAJ
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept A 9R? Livrt»«r< •
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN -would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
d
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health Jhe entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR CBb CO.,
Dept, G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
(JFLYoy^
A COOLING LOTION
FOR SUNBURN. BATHERS
MOTORISTS
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
OR POST FREE
V
BONNINCTON & CO., LTD.
179 HARRIS ST., SYDNEY
Mosquitobane
A friend need for
Camping. Fishing, the
Bash. Etc. Will keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
ALL CHEMISTS
1/6 Bottle
or Post Free >
\y HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
[2
If you must rear
baby by hand
Then there’*
his Bottle
Mellin’s Feed-
ing Bottle is
the perfect and
simple Feeder,
TTuT'fy'alljeZzoi,
adopt a food which approaches most closely to
Mother’s Milk, and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and proved equivalent
to Mother’s Milk; its success is evidenced by
world-wide recommendation. Simple to prepare;
no tedious cooking—it is alike a boon to the
nursing mother and satisfying to the child.
Mellin's
Food
Write NOW for sample of Mellin's Food and useful Handbook
for Mothers —“The Care of Infants in Australia!*’—post free.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
To suffer with fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the -neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E.GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschea). Ltd., 6B Deansgate Arcade. Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After the Confession.
Yes, tell the tale! But what should these
things matter —
Flushed cheek, a stronger pulse, a laugh
outworn!
The rain, through sun, its largesses may
scatter,
The growing corn by winds be overborne.
Lust of the world, lust of the merry weather,
Lust of the bee that toils it knows not
why— '
And some cold star the cosmic forces tether
Winks down the purple pathway of the
sky,
Seeing not sin or virtue anywhere,
But madcap Spring with kisses of warm air.
Men have made laws and offered little prizes
For those who walk a chalk-line with some
skill;
And one a hell six inches deep devises
And lights it with a three-grain sulphur pill.
Magnify these with fine imagination.
Invert your feelings, overawe your powers
And you can see a canker gnaw creation
And a green worm in all the heart’s best
flowers;
But if you wait, breathe deep, and keep
quite cool,
You’ll find your own soul difficult to fool.
The world begins afresh each yellow morning,
A merry world for all its tricks insane,
Bring it a happy scorn to greet its scorning,
A deeper sorrow to deride its pain.
’Tis a good world, but you are set above it,
More than its master while you tread it
down.
The foolish thing will kiss you if you love it
And cringe and lick your ankles when you
frown ;
But don’t attempt like Atlas to upraise
Its weight of tears and laughter, nights and
days.
Who will may sit amid Olympian thunders,
Who will may float upon the sunlit cloud ;
We are as gods—the small greengrocer won-
ders —•
But in our shrines the worshippers are
bowed.
Up ! Let our thoughts go lightly aeroplaning
Through the deep ether of the thing we
dare!
There is no need to hear regret explaining
The haggard past has not a thing to wear.
Let it go naked. Let the new days scatter
New joys and griefs that pass and cannot
matter.
N.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
Love Passes.
My love was a slim vase of amethyst,
Flashing fine lights from facets carven round.
Some subtle thing to-day in you I missed ;
Some subtle thing in you last night I found.
And, lo! the slender vase of amethyst,
Its lights all gone, lies shattered on the
ground.
N.s.w.
JOHN EGAN.
The North Wind.
Born of the desert’s endless drouth, ’neath
the spell of a flaming sky,
Where the heat waves prance in a devil’s
dance, and the white sands madly fly;
Nursed on the lap of the tortured days, alert
to the call of death,
I twist my mouth to the cringing South in a
long-drawn, snarling breath.
Before the swing of my fledgling wing, the
rippling sand dune leaps.
And whirls. aloft in a smoking spray that
gleams blood-red in the glare of day,
And flashes a warning far away, where the
green earth vigil keeps.
Beware, for the days of grace are past; look
well to the hearth and home,
For the great North Wind is roused at last,
The hot North Wind is come, is come;
The dread North Wind is come!
To stem the tide of my quick’ning breath
the tall grass leaps in vain ;
I blaze a trail over hill and dale, as red as
the hand of Cain.
The hot air rings with my ghoulish laugh. I
gloat o’er the sights I see,
For to drink my fill of the green earth’s ill
was ever delight for me.
In stealth I come to the bushman’s home,
set deep in the forest proud ;
I wreck his heart in a sudden ire, and fan
the flames to my heart's desire,
Till the land runs red with the demon Fire,
and the bush folk cry aloud:
“O God, as it was in days now past, take
care of our hearth and home,
For the great North Wind is roused at last,
The hot North Wind is come, is come;
The dread North Wind is come.”
Faster and faster yet I fly, and never a hand
to stay.
The song of the bird no more is heard, and
hushed is the joy of day ;
The tall trees bend in a sullen hate, the gay
flowers wilt and die ;
All life is brought to a single thought when
I am passing by.
With savage swing of my mighty wing, flung
wfide o’er the trembling ground,
I break at last on the wide sea shore, where
the green spume flies, and the breakers
roar
As the waves go up from the ocean’s core,
where the dead men circle round.
And the Furies join in a mighty shout:
“Make way, for the KING is come!
Make way, for the world is sad without.”
But the great North Wind is home, is home;
The dread North Wind is home.
VICTORIA.
BERNARLD CRONIN.


AUSTRALIANS
mm
m
ff m »■
’xV
WMM
m
m
Every turn of a PERDRIAU TYRE means money kept
within Australia, and, furthermore, money kept within your
own pocket, for Australian-made Perdriaus do actually give
greater mileage at a lesser cost per mile.
Your decision to use Australian Perdriau Tyres
is a fair deal to yourself and Australia.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne (122 Flinders Street),
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle.
Va
Si
o
fS.
11
igpte
/
m
o
n
m,
y~
r>
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
OENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/0.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
M*.
fpipy/
°ai 10*
A
©
o
s;
CAESAR
Caesar could have crossed the Rubicon on
“high” if he had had Plume Motor Spirit in
his tank. “Plume” will take you anywhere
—and bring you back again. On the “stiff”
hill k shows to greatest advantage. You
take the climb on top. You spare your
gears the racking of changing down —you
save racing your engine.
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting —Sweet Running—More Miles
There is practical proof of superiority in
every tin of Plume. You appreciate its
wonderful qualities—more mileage—easier
starting—cleaner cylinders the first and
every time you use it.
Correct Lubrication
The lubrication of your gear box and
differential is a matter needing great
care. Gargoyle Mobiloil “C ” and “CC ”
or Gargoyle Mobilubricant are specially
manufactured to meet varying conditions.
Our recommendation chart—mailed free
upon request—will show you the grade you
should use in your car. “A grade for each
type of Motor.” For sale at all dealers
and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
\ 1 /
6 tfKso>2*
°ai lov^
'S'PjrO
When riding on a “Bag o’
Wind,” be sure to have
enough “Wind” under you!
IF Air cost as much as the Rubber
which contains it, in a Tyre, how
careful you would be to demand full-
measure.
Air in a Pneumatic Tyre is, after all,
the most important part of it.
Without Air-Pressure you could not
drive- a Car at more than 15 Miles per
hour, without partially Wrecking the
Car-Mechanism and making a Punishment
of Motoring instead of a Pleasure.
With too little Air-Pressure, in a
Tyre, the layers of Cotton Fabric would
wrinkle, or buckle over each other —-the
Friction of one layer over another YY ear-
ing out the Fabric and producing exces-
sive Heat.
Because that Frictional Heat first
Softens, and next Dries Out, the rubber
Solution between layers.
Then you have a Tyre weakened so
that it is ready to puncture, or “burst”
at the first heavy impact of stone, rut, or
other obstacle on the road.
That is what happens with under-
inflation, in proportion to load.
So don't under-in date, if you care for
the cost of Tyre Mileage.
But —per contra —
IF your Tyres are too small for the
Weight of your Car and Passengers
—if they are Under-Sized— you
MUST Over-Inflate, or get very short
Mileage from your Tyres.
And— when you Over-Inflate this is
what happens:—
The Car (and its Occupants) then
bounces at every pebble and slight
obstacle on the road, as if it were a
highly-inflated rubber ball.
It causes, in degree, the same kind
of Vibration, to Car-Mechanism and Car
GOODRICH
Occupants, as if Solid Rubber Tyres were
used, instead of Over-Inflated 1 neu-
matics. . .
This excessive Vibration not only
Wears out prematurely the Car-Mechan-
ism, but Discounts the very feature for
which people, by preference, ride in
Motor Cars. .
Viz.: that Soaring Luxury of Motion,
which can only be had through “riding
on Air,” and on plenty of it.
Well—to the Moral of all this:—
* * * *
ALL millimeter Tyres made in Europe
are UNDER-SIZED! (Not Good-
rich Tyres.)
Measure their Cross-Section Diameter
with Calipers, Goodrich Compensating
Gauge, or any other Standard, and prove
this for yourself.
None but Goodrich Tyres are FULL-
SIZED. This means that no others
measure up to the number of millimeters,
in Air-Space, that the specifications of
their alleged size calls for.
Ergo—no millimeter Tyres, but GOOD-
RICH Tyrt s, can carry the load of Car
and Car-Occupants, with proper Economy
and Comfort, without Over-Inflation,
which means Over-Vibration.
Why accept less Air-Space —less Pneu-
matic quality —less Comfort in your Car
—and less Mileage from Tyres (for your
Money) than the specified measurements,
in millimeters, call for V
Goodrich Tyres are the ONLY milli-
meter Tyres that give FULL MEASL RL.
up to the claimed size in millimeters —as
test will prove.
They cost you no more than similar
quality of Under-Silted Tyres.
Why not get what you pay for?
FULL-
SIZED
DUVAL & CO.
13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
145 Collins Street, Melbourne
300 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TYRES


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 3S»—No. 1934.
THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 1917.
Price Gn.
THE AWKWARD SQUAD.
DRILL-SERGEANT MARS: “What can a man do with a squad like that! I’ve been at 'em goin’ on three years now,
and they haven’t even learned to mark time yet!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6cl. per annum you can have Tiie
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Fetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiih'Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. When
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black anti White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
nntECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/I/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home Neivs Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brener and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz,, Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each
additional 202.
'ffie'SßttlleZz/rL,
THURSDAY, MARCH S, 1917.
THE MYSTERY OF THE LONDON
CONFERENCE.
The yarn that representatives of oversea
British countries have been invited to attend
an Imperial Conference for the purpose of
“helping to win the war” and “fixing the
terms of peace” is not good enough. No one
believes it. Why there should be a porten-
tous silence in Australia about what the
Conference is being held for, and great
loquacity about what is not the reason for.
holding it, might at least be explained with-
out danger of affording the enemy a useful
tip concerning the Spring offensive. The
absence of such information and the evasive
tone of the Federal Ministry have had the
result of making a very great number of
Australians view the Conference and every-
thing connected therewith in a spirit of sus-
picious hostility. This paper does not know
whether that is part of the schedule of pre-
liminary operations, but if it is the arrange-
ment looks more mad than sensible. To say
that the suspicions of the people are ground-
less, and that it is irrational to jump at
conclusions in the absence of evidence, is no
answer to this. No self-governing community
can be expected not to feel apprehensive
when it hears of itself being represented at
a Conference held on the other side of the
.world, yet is afforded no definite information
about the purposes of the Conference, except
such as may be contained in a few meaning-
less phrases and an assurance that “matters
of the most vital concern to the nation” are
to be discussed, and is not told what the atti-
tude of its representatives towards those
vital matters is going to be. And this is
aggravated in the case of Australia by the
kind of “representation” that was last year
given to Australian opinion by one of the
men who will probably attend this Confer-
ence. If there is no need for mystery there
is no excuse for making a mystery of it. If,
on the other hand, the Conference and the
representation of Australia have to be sur-
rounded by fog, the citizens have the best of
all possible reasons for contemplating the
situation with a cold eye. And as the “tre-
mendous importance” of the Conference is
being advanced as a justification for asking
the British Parliament to intervene between
the electors of the Commonwealth and their
Parliament, the case for the cold eye is
materially strengthened. Citizens who are
asked to hand over their votes to an external
authority would be something less than in-
telligent if they omitted to wonder what was
going to happen next.
The “win the war” and “terms of peace”
story is not worth serious attention. If the
existing plans and armies of the Allies are
not going to win the war, then the war will
end at the wrong place. In any case, when
terms of peace are discussed the brutal truth
is that Australia will be an outsider. The war
was made for Australia and the people who
made the war will settle it. But for the
purposes of the Imperial Federationists a
sham of far-reaching significance can be man-
ufactured out of this business, and The
Bulletin confidently expects later on to
encounter the alleged fact of “Australia
having entered into the closest relationship
with the Mother Country by participating in
tbe terms of settlement” doing great service
as an argument for dragging the Australian
people into that organic union towards which
very powerful influences are struggling to
direct public policy within the countries
that make up what is called the Empire.
There is no pretence in London about this
Conference being called to “win the war.”
All the talk about it there is along the same
lines—that by calling the Conference to-
gether a great step has been taken by the
British Government in the direction of an
Imperial Federation. That is the objective.
It is what Australians must not lose sight
of, for the circumstances of the hour and the
immense problems looming though the haze
are suitable to the stimulation of sentiment
favorable to the Imperialist doctrine. London
knows this well, and that is why the Con-
ference has been called. Its deliberations
will be almost wholly in the direction of pre-
paring the ground for a tightening-up of the
Imperial connection by the creation of a
general partnership based upon representa-
tion in a Parliament charged with the con-
duct of Imperial affairs.
No Australian who has kept his mind free
from the catch-cries and yelps that have had
so great an influence on our national politics
can doubt that the war, whatever its results
may be, has shown many weaknesses in the
make-up of Australia, or that the Common-
wealth’s place in the world is never going
to he quite the same as it was during the
long sleep. Playing at being a nation has
come to an end. But whether Australia’s
position would be improved or the future
made more secure by leaping into a
scheme of Imperialism is a problem requiring
closer investigation now than it ever received
before. The conditions in bygone years
were not those in which the issue will be
determined. Plans and specifications for
an organic Imperialism have been as plenti-
ful as blackberries. They were failures, it
is no harm to remember, not so much be-
cause of difficulties inherent in devising a
plan, but mainly because the public mind
was hostile to any plan. Given a desire
among the people for Imperial union the
difficulty of translating it into fact would
not be insuperable. It might be easy. But
that the Australian people are likely to have
that desire is not probable. That they are
likely to acquire a longing for Imperialism
through the proceedings of a Conference
about which their representatives are as
dumb as oysters is a long way from being
possible. They will hear much about trade
and tariffs and producing within the Empire
and all the rest of it. These things have
nothing to do with Imperialism, except in
the. .sense that under an organic Imperial
Union the authority which the Commonwealth
now possesses in these matters would wither
away. The crux of Imperialism is defence
—and war. It stands for swagger and for
swank; for adventure and spheres of influ-
ence ; for predominance here and there all
over the earth. Imperialism would tangle
Australia up in every European war; in-
volve the Commonwealth in squabbles in
Africa and elsewhere ; make it part of Europe
in every sense. That is not what Australia
has been looking forward to. Though there
might seem compensations in the present
for having a post to lean on for half an
hour, even at the expense of jettisoning
practically the whole national policy, the
Australia of the years to come would first
have to be sold into a bondage of iron.
There are a score of solid reasons why
British policy should be directed to the culti-
vation of the Imperialist ideal. But there
are none why Australia should follow any
other road than the one she has journeyed
along hitherto. The interests of the two
countries are only identical by accident.
With the passage of years it is inevitable
that the divergence must grow greater ; for
bound though Britain and Australia may be
by race, that alone would not be sufficient
to prevent the loss of national identity gall-
ing our people past endurance. The dark
uncertainty of next year will be no excuse
for this Conference trying to stampede Aus-
tralians into a fresh paddock. If Hughes
did not intend doing something of the kind
he would be more expansive about what he
does intend to try, and less talkative about
matters he is not going to deal with. Accord-
ing to the veiled utterances of Joe Cook
the Conference offers the privilege of “shap-
ing the future of Australia.” According to
this paper’s way of thinking the Australian
people ought to know something about the
sort of shaping the Australian delegation
proposes to recommend or perpetrate. So
long as they do not know they can be cer-
tain that there are reasons for keeping their
eyes open.
“NEW MONEY.”
While all England is throwing its cash into
Lloyd George’s hat,- someone is every now
and again heard shouting in loud tones of
triumph about the amount of “new money”
which has arrived in the Treasury. The
cheerful phrase at once calls up pictures of
shining piles of gold, created by some subtle
alchemy, with patriots rushing it on wheel-
barrows or hand-carts to the bank in order
that Haig may dash it in the face of a con-
science-stricken enemy. Beyond question,
the huge response of the people of Britain
to the demands of the latest war loan shows
the extent of the national goodwill. If the
Kaiser isn’t hit hard in all places where it
hurts, the fault does not lie at the door of
the British money-lender. As far as wealth
can punch it is punching, and looks as if it
would continue to do so up to that last mys-
sterious shilling which has been worn smooth
on so many platforms. But the story about
“new money” is mostly nonsense. Here and
there some old dame may take a slowly-
hoarded 10 pounds from a cracked teapot on
the _ mantelshelf _ and add a mite to the
national circulation which had not been there
for some time ; but, in the main, the alleged
new money” is the money which was spin-
ning as lately as yesterday. New money is.
of course, a possibility. The loot of India
in a past century did bring sorrjething into
England which had not been there before.
But no such inflow of wealth is taking place
now. The “new money” is the old money ;
and it is none the worse on that account.
Indeed the nation which keeps the old money
circulating is the one which must be wealthi-
est in the end.
The use of language which suggests minted
coin whenever money or loans are mentioned
is misleading to people who regard every
building with “Bank” written upon it as an
inexhaustible treasure-house. A nation self-
contained and self-supporting could allow
itself credit to any figure and raise war-
loans running into figures too stupendous
tor the mind of man to grasp ; but its actual
wealth could not go beyond the limit marked
by the best-directed efforts of all its people
working enthusiastically together. National
credit may run far beyond the bounds of
anything the nation has ever done to justify
it; but when it does so it is a speculation
based upon the theory that the nation can
do a lot more. If the nation doesn’t justify
that theory, no good com.es of it; for the
pound that won’t buy a pound’s worth is in
everything except name less than a pound.
On the other hand, a nation self-contained,
organised on a sound system and working-
together with enthusiasm, is so tremendous
a proposition in the realm of production
that there are scarcely any limits to the
amount of “new money” which it can create;
and in that fact lies the hope of those who
look forward to the payment of a huge Ger-
man indemnity by-and-bye. As far as Britain
is concerned, the real effect of the great
demand for monev to carry on the war'
appears to have been the diversion of current
wealth from a thousand channels of private
gratification, luxury and even comfort. The
country is still not wholly self-contained;
but in that it has reduced its demands on
outsiders and organised its own productive
forces, it is able to stretch its credit and
pour an unexampled amount into loans.
Under a system of wholesale foreign pur-
chases in excess of exports money goes out
all the time. But when a first loan is used
to purchase local products the same money
is available for a second loan; and if the
same sort of purchases are made, for a third
loan, and so on indefinitely. It is in this
way that there is no limit to the amount a
nation - may borrow. The actual money is
always available, because it is used over "and
over again. The only question is whether
the nation can repay. And that is a matter
of time and industrial organisation.
Whatever may be said about the curse of
war and all its attendant evils, the fact
stands that a time of war is rich in lessons
for general consumption in time of quiet.
When nations are at full pressure and using
every effort to outdo one another, the nature
of the game of national living is more plainly
seen than when the mist of nothing-matters-
much shrouds the days of peace. England
has just reached a serious crisis in her his-
tory ; Australia has a crisis as serious to
face every day until her national foundations
are sure and her place established. Britain’s
task of bringing the Kaiser to his knees is
no bigger proportionally than Australia’s
task of bringing a whole continent into a
condition of effective occupation by the
white man. The tremendous earnestness
with which the man in England has changed
his habits must be emulated by the man in
N. S. Wales or Victoria if he wants to be
master of the land he claims as his. First
and chief among the lessons that must be
learned is that a nation’s strength lies in
being self-contained, organised and keeping
at work. The phrase “new money,” as used
in this country, has generally implied loan
money obtained in England and actually
received in Australia in the form of imported
goods. Yet this is not “new money” but
“lost money”—a mere credit given in Eng-
land for future work to be done in Aus-
tralia and costing much extra sweat and
toil by way of interest. Australia, self-con-
tained, doing her own work and doing it
properly, can grant herself all the credit
she requires without going outside to seek it,
and thus making herself a bondslave to
someone else. Britain in the Napoleonic
wars borrowed from herself enormous sums
of money to throw at the disturber of the
European peace. So huge were the figures
involved that the world kept wondering for
half a centiiry how any nation could be so
rich as to meet that gigantic bill. Australia
to-day is little short of the England of that
day in capital wealth and infinitely greater
in potential wealth. What England spent
to down Napoleon Australia could easily
spend to uplift Australia. Politicians out
to catch a cheap vote dangle before the eyes
of electors the possibility of spending five or
six millions of loan money. They do not
tell their hearers that by a sound policy of
protection of industries, coupled with a
refusal to borrow overseas —a policy which
would make us self-contained and complete
within our own could, if the
occasion demanded, increase the credit votes
which we granted to ourselves to an extent
far beyond any possible advances from the
European pawnshop. Australia needs “new
money”—lots of it. But the genuine stuff
must be made by Australian toil on Aus-
tralian _ soil. The “new money” from over-
seas rings false on the counter of our
aspirations.
National Proverbs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Increase not. your number of councils, nor
count legislation a sport,
For the greater the number of laws the
bigger the gaol and the court.
At the artist, the saint, or the bard be the
line of your merriment drawn.
For remember when waters are shallow the
whale is a joke to the prawn.
A* hoso diggeth a well should be praised,
whoso buildeth a bridge should have
meat,
But the usurer, middleman, loafer are wee-
vils that live in the wheat.
Proclaim your own country afar, ’mid the
pops of the banqueting cork,
But the best immigration we get always
comes on the wings of the stork.
Exalt -not the thing that is distant, nor
kneel down to what is remote,
Is the tvool of the jumbuck less fine than
the hair of the Cambrian goat?
In watching a robber or ruler let vigilance
never have done,
For even the mulga has spots on the side
that is turned from the sun.
In things that are brought overseas be
cautious in what you prefer,
For Virtue is sparse in its seed, but not so
the rabbit and burr.
Face the danger that knocks at the door,
but don’t put to sea in a tub,
And be careful in kindling a fire if you live
on the edge of a scrub.
Don’t cover your country with whitewash,
or the sins of your people defend;
There’s nothing so close as an egg, but the
chickens come out in the end.
At order and discipline mock not, whether
that of the army or push,
For brumbies well-broken are better than
thoroughbreds wild in the Bush.
In catching the country’s despoilers, don’t
say that the task is too hard ;
If the scrubbers get past on the post you
must widen the wings of the yard.
Don’t mortgage the present or future on the
chance of the bills being met;
Better a farm that is free than a station
that’s riddled with debt.
A falsehood wu'll swell to a river while the
clear streams of truth often fail.
And a hayseed can travel all roads if it gets
in the cab horse’s tail.
In counting your national assets don’t add
to your wealth by a half,
Don’t overlook Strawberry’s pleuro and
count in her possible calf.
Meet trouble half-way if it’s coming: it’s the
best way of keeping it back,
But don’t tread on its heels when it’s gone
or you’ll find it turn round in its track.
Look well at the mouth of a horse—and of
him who is selling it cheap, *
For even the dingo’s a saint in a place where
there isn’t a sheep.
Back losers or run on the rocks and your
best mate will find you a bore,
Strike oil and your distant relations will
keep any grass from your door.
Whoso mocks when his country’s in peril on
him retribution will fall ;
When the house is in flames there’s no peace
for the wood-bugs that live in the wall.
Strength and gwiftness reside in the horse,
but no terrors it holds for the fly,
And three inches of tongue in a woman will
murder a man six feet high.
Don’t reckon on Honesty paying: the ace
will lie where it was dealt.
If a man makes a god of his conscience he
must take up two holes in his belt.
And remember that Fate’s color-blind. Whose
cause will it likely espouse?
Of the black ant that works till it drops, or
the white ant that eats down the house?
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Need to Make Transportation the
Battle Cry in a General Election.
The Labor party of N. S. Wales bad, offici-
ally, nothing to do with the Referendum on
conscription, as that was entirely a Federal
matter ; and even if conscription were still
a live issue, as T. I). Mutch and John
Storey loudly insist, they could not as N. S.
Wales politicians assist or retard the move-
ment. Elected or not elected, in State office
or in Opposition, their power in connection
with a Federal matter is exactly that of any
other private citizen. For this reason the
introduction of the question of compulsory
service-into the State election campaign by
the Labor leaders shows a pitiful lack of
imagination or a still more pitiful attitude
towards the public intelligence. A man
might just as well stand for Botany as an
Irish Home Ruler as make his first claim to
consideration his view on an Australian
question with which the State cannot deal.
What the public of N. S. Wales desires to
know at the present moment is whether in
the smash of parties there is any force left
in any of the fragments which might make
for decent government. The Holmax-
Liberal fusion doesn’t look very hopeful,
loaded as it is with the discredit attached to
two political wrecks and several blighted
hopes; and the P.L.L. faction is a very
miserable affair if it can’t evolve a better
battle-cry than conscription. The chance for
a new party—national in the best sense, and
therefore above party—is a good one, but
nobody rises to the occasion. Possibly if
anybody did his cause would be ruined by
some babbling person with his eyes in the
back of bis head who would maintain that
the ancient system of transporting convicts
to Botany Bay is the only point on which a
modern election should be fought.
»
Government by the Use of Birdlime.
After the proceedings incidental to the for-
mation of the Grab Ministry in N. S. Wales
and the Hughes-Cook combine in Mel-


bourne, the Ready episode and the Watson
"revelations.” bad as they are, are meie
trifles. Party government is at all times, a
frowsy business. When fuses and coa 1-
tions are being worked the game is plaj ed 1
a putrefying atmosphere. Ready probata j
had cold feet and succumbed to argument.
Watson was apparently suspected or nurs-
ing a chilblain; but he resisted the im Ra-
tion to take a seat by the Liberal hre. it
all shows for about the 973rd time the soi
of thing that happens in the war for port-
folios. It is inseparable from the game, am
in no essential particular does it differ li on J
the proceedings incidental to the selection o
candidates by juntas and leagues or the elec-
tion of Ministries by caucuses. Compared
with the “consultations” between COOK and
Hughes and the history of the Coalition, the
Watson incident is as unilluminating as a
damp squib. To. demand Royal Commissions
to inquire into occurrences of this kind is
simply, after all, fumbling about on the
outskirts. The thing that is rotten and
from which this crop of evil springs is 1 aity
Government. To do much good, the axe must
be put to the root of the tree. It is no use
complaining that the fruit is moth-eaten.
Evervbody knows that, and knows, too, that
when the public exchanges one set of parti-
sans for another, the weary old game
back-scratch and wire-pull goes on without
interruption. *
Luxuries.
Tiie question “What is a luxury; was
bound to come as soon as the Federal Gov-
ernment mentioned that it intended to start
thinking about the prohibition of super-
fluous imports. The question only has to
be applied to some particular commodity
and forthwith the atmosphere is darkened
with words and everybody proceeds to get
tied up in a knot. But the problem Aus-
tralia has to deal with is far removed from
the answers to conundrums about whethei
silk is a luxury, a motor-car a necessity or
tennis racquets indispensable. A. pineapple
would probably be a luxury just now in
Hamburg.' It would certainly not be a
luxury in Bananaland. Copious whiskers
are in all likelihood a necessity during winter
in Russia. No conceivable case could be
made out for regarding a shave as a luxury
in Australia. Men and women could get
through life very well without ever seeing silk
or motor-cars or pianos. Countless millions
have done so and millions are doing it to-
day. The fig-leaf and the bear-skin have
provided them with millinery. The naked
foot was good enough to travel on. Ihe
music of the wind in the trees probably
tormented them less than the neighbor s
kid attacking Beethoven. But discus-
sions as to whether a fig-leaf is necessary
or overcoats are luxurious, or whether a
citizen can do without two shirts by stick-
ing to one and doing his laundry in an
apron, are irrelevant departures from the
plain issue of whether a country is indulg-
ing an appetite for luxuries when it is
buying millions of pounds’ worth of foreign
goods more than it has the cash to pay for.
The real question is not whether a specific
commodity is a luxury to the individual, but
whether the aforementioned transaction is
not a national luxury which can only be
indulged in at the expense of the nation s
future. To this there is only one possible
reply. And if buying excessive volumes of
foreign goods represents national luxurious-
ness, the individual use thereof is a luxury,
whether the material consists of motor-cars,
neckties or trousers. To call a motor-car a
luxury merely because it is a comfortable
and expeditious means of transport is as
wildly absurd as to suggest that in using a
fountain-pen instead of a quill dragged
from the tail of a rooster the writer of this
paragraph" is wallowing in affluence wrung
from a downtrodden proletariat. The plain
truth is that motor-cars made in Australia
are necessities, while motor-cars constructed
somewhere else are luxuries, because they
represent national waste; and the importing
mania which finds its expression in silks
and satins and cigars is not going to be
exterminated by barring those goods, but
by altering public policy which, by flinging
borrowed cash round and using _ the tariff
as an instrument merely of taxation, makes
the imported car and the case of decorative
apparel and the aromatic smoke inevitable.
♦
The P.L.L. and the I.W.W.
Brother Brookfield, who got into the N. S.
Wales Assembly for Broken Hill just in
time to find out that as a general election
was on top of him he had to get in again, is
filling in time raging around Sydney extol-
ling the I.W.W. and the P.L.L., while the
P.L.L. and Labor-leader John Storey
and Tom Mutch and .T. Dooley denounce
the I.W.W. furiously. The situation ought
to be cleared up. Brookfield says that the
I.W.W. is “out to better the conditions'of
the workers.” The P.L.L. and Storey
and Mutcii and Dooley say that the
I.W.W. is no good, and is the great-
est enemy the Labor party has to
fight. Now, Brookfield is the accepted can-
didate of the P.L.L., and what this paper
■wants to know is where the voice of Jacob
and the hand of Esau can be taken for iden-
tification. If P.L.L. candidates are to go
abo\it the country trumpeting their dislike of
the 1.W.W., and others are going to lift up
their voices in admiration thereof, the public
may get mystified, and the Scene Shifters’
Union begin to look on the P.L.L. claim to
be the repository of the platform as a jest.
The League has repudiated everybody who
advocated compulsory military service, on
the ground that this was opposed to a plank
of the party policy, although no one could
find the plank. It has repudiated the
1.W.W., and has also extended the glad
hand to Brookfield who does not repudiate
it. Will it or will it not now hand out jus-
tice all round, and declare that advocacy of or
applause for the I.W.W. is as much opposed
to the Labor platform as advocacy of con-
scription? And if not, why not? The pub-
lic should at least be told what the reasons
are for looking with indulgence on candi-
dates who defy the junta by claiming the
right to put a word in for the I.W.W. while
pursuing with excommunication the indivi-
dual who dared to think lie had a right to
form an opinion about how to raise an army.
The Failure of Teuton Diplomacy.
The amazing misjudgment of national souls
which is the key to the failure of German
diplomacy furnishes one reason why the wai
must be brought to a successful finish and
why there must be no peace without victoiy.
To the German mind all nations are basely
self-seeking and without a spark of idealism ;
and that makes Germany impossible as a
master over any but Germans. At the very
first flash of gunfire the Teuton made a mis-
take about England. John Bull wasn t
the inert, effete old person Berlin thought
him. The next big error was with regard to
Italy. Italy was actually a German ally,
and with the right sort of diplomacy might
have been induced to keep out of the scrap ,
but a German and an Italian soul are so
unlike that the heavy-jowled tailed
again, to the general advantage of Europe.
The same thing happened in tlie case ot
Roumania; and lioumania, though stralect
for the moment, will be an unpleasant name
in Berlin before all is over. Again, 1 oland
delivered from the Russian yoke looked line
a proposition to make something out of; but
the Bole had a human outlook, and the Ger-
man in the role of deliverer seemed too
absurd. Germany’s great American failure
followed. Wilson and Wall-street would
stand a lot, but not quite everything. Now
the story of Mexico and Japan comes to
crown the arch of tremendous diplomatic
incapacity. Mexico looked like a brigand out
for any sort of plunder. Germany took lnm
on his looks. But Mexico wasn t altogethei
a fellow of that sort. He had a bitter quarrel
with ancient custom and modern fraud, and
thought he might as well, fight anything and
everything as endure the wrongs which he
had come to regard as his oiily birthright.
But as a nation he wasn’t a-trickster and a
thief; nor had he any love for cold-blooded
murder. Further, the German notion that
Japan could be persuaded to a dishonorable
rupture with her Allies was madness. Japan
isn’t made that way. The general result ot
the whole thing is that the TJ.S.A. have
been made furious, all Latin America has
been insulted, and Japan has a deeper
scorn for the Kaiser and his works. Even
old China lias lifted a padded slipper against
the Teuton. In short, Berlins only diplo-
matic triumphs have been with Bulgaria and
Turkey—poor Asiatic fragments of ancient
obscenities left stranded on the shores ot
Europe.
Australian Remounts.
“Machete” from the Sinai Desert:—
“Aneb” (B. 30/11 /’l6) scores well in his remarks
on the question of Australian remounts and is right
when he advocates the appointment of trained and
reliable buyers. What is even more necessary is
the establishment of a standard for remounts Under
present conditions buyers, competent and otherwise
—and there are plenty of. the otherwise—set their
own standards.
Take Light Horse remounts, for instance. I have
now served for close on 12 months in the Sinai
Desert and had in addition three years’ experience
in South Africa—all with Light Horse. There and
here the horses that stood and are standing the
work and privation best are the medium-sized, com-
pact horses showing more than a trace of blood
ancestry. In fact, in my opinion, the more blood
the better. Such horses were common enough years
ago, when the big cattle stations were closer in and
the'earlier military manuals, drawn up by Australians
for Mounted Riflemen, always laid stress on the
desirability of this type of animal. Since January,
1916, on the Western Front and here, I have ridden
two horses only. The work included all the big
treks and journevs in the Sinai Desert during last
summer and this winter, and the pair, 14.2 and
14.3 respectively, have carried up to 14 stone oi more
without ever failing. During that time big, showy,
heavy horses have come and gone by the hundred,
while others of the type above mentioned are still
going strong. A big horse, in addition to requiring
more tucker than a small one, has to “carry his
own weight as well as his rider’s,” to use an old
horseman’s phrase. The cult of the big, heavy horse
is derived from the cavalry fetich for “shock action,”
which is not a Light Horse job at all. In a- horse-
to-horse charge where weight tells the big horse no
doubt would score, but with mounted riflemen he is
superfluous. There is, too, the very prevalent, but
mistaken notion that the bigger the horse the bigger
the weight he will carry. A big horse is as full of
weak spots as the average overgrown man.
I am with “Aneb,” too, in his advocacy of mule-
breeding in Australia. It has been a constant wonder
to me since the South African war that Australia
has not taken to this easy and profitable line. From
what I have seen of the two (and I am Western born
and bred) the mule beats the horse as a nimble and
aH round draught animal. He can live on sticks,
and is game to the toes. Mules have long ago taken
the place of horses in the Desert Column guns, and
the gunners swear by them for staunchness and
stamina. As for riding—well, just before the big
Romani operations my squadron acquired a mule.
Shortage of horseflesh led to his employment as a
mount, and till he was killed in action he was con-
sidered the best “horse” in his troop.
After this it will probably occur to some
Federal Government as a good thing to
keep a State Government in the bag. The
situation is full of possibilities. In return
for a subsidy or bonus, a small, hard-up
State Government may undertake to sup-
ply Senators, of any brand desired, to fill
vacancies that may occur or be arranged.
And the sooner some small State hangs out
a signboard at the Treasury:
SENATORS SUPPLIED
on the
SHORTEST NOTICE.
Any Shape or Pattern.
■Customers Waited on for Orders in any Part of
The Commonwealth.
the sooner, we say, some such signboard is
hung out the better. The people then may do
one of two things: (1) Abolish the Senate,
which doesn’t perform the functions it
was designed to perform; or (2) amend
that clause in the Constitution which gives
a State Government the right to nominate
the man to fill a casual vacancy in the
Senate as that State’s representative.
This is the sort of letter (it comes from
Queensland) that makes The Bulletin feel
glad it is an Australian: —
In The Bulletin of February 1 there was a letter
from “A Billjim’s Sister in Westralia.” I want
to know if I can be of any assistance to her. She
says she is working her brother’s farm and cannot
afford hired help, but doesn’t mind toiling 10 hours
a day to keep it going. I would be only too glad
to pay my passage over and work on the farm
without wages, if she would have me there. I don't
say I can do much, but I can learn and surely could
find something to do that would lessen that 10 hours’
graft. I am strong, and used to country life, so
know what hard work would mean. I can do house-
work, and ride and drive, and would be willing
to tackle any job outside. If she would only try
me, it would be the kindest thing she could do. I
have no brother to go to the war, and my only
relation, a sister, is driving an ambulance in
England. ’ I want, to use that rather worn-out
phrase, to do my bit, and intended going to England
to tackle munition work; but if 1 can be of use
to Australia I would rather stay here. I am
passionately fond of my own country, and the
thought of leaving Australia gives me the horrors.
The Bulletin was' the first to awaken me to the
fact that “home” was not England.
Provided Allaii is good and the coaches are
not held up by rain again, I expect to leave here
for Sydney on March 3. If you have time, will you
send me her address, so that I can write to her
myself. If she would have me over there it would
be doing me a good turn, by giving me a chance to
be useful.
Surely it is time to protest against the use
of the War Precautions Act in such a case
as that in which Coombe, M.L.A., of South
Aus., was concerned the other day. Among
the innumerable wrong things done in con-
nection with the conscription referendum
was the direction that certain votes should
be earmarked. A hundred thousand people
believed that it was wrong; and nearly
every anti-conscription speaker in Sydney
and Melbourne said far worse things about
it than the mild-mannered Coombe would
ever have thought of saying, and hundreds
who were not Antis protested against it
as a horrible blunder. Yet Coombe, appar-
ently on the ground that there were a num-
ber of German descendants in the district
where he spoke, was accused of making a
statement “calculated to cause disaffection,”
and has just now been fined £lO and bound
over to keep the peace as though he were a
rowdy malefactor. The sober truth, of
course, is that the statement he made was
calculated to cause profound disaffection —
not against the Empire, however, but
against the people who were responsible
for the referendum arrangements; and it
is a shocking misuse of the War Precautions
Act to punish a man for that. And it is
still more shocking when it is remembered
that the mild Coombe —the man who has
three sons at the Front and who admittedly
declared “We are lighting and shall fight
to the end” —was prosecuted while men who
were not mild were not said “Bo !” to. Com-
pare what Catts screamed, for instance,
with what Coombe said. Catts was not
prosecuted. Did he seem to have too many
claws?
+
More than ever this current N. S. Wales
State election ought to disgust people with
party politics and show the need for the con-
stant and honest use of the referendum. Each
side in the present row is simply appealing to
ignorance and prejudice: neither is attempt-
ing to make it a fair test of public opinion
on State issues. The Labor side has dis-
honestly raised the conscription question.
The other side, following the agile Holman,
is trying to make the Opposition look ridicu-
lous by starring some of the weird propo-
sals that are to come up at the P.L.L. Con-
ference just after the elections. Every year
there are dozens of these jimjams that the
Conference doesn’t take seriously; and
nobody knows that so well as Holman. At
any rate, for 20 years he regarded the Labor
party as quite good enough to be a member
of notwithstanding that similar whimsies
have come before the Conference ever since
there was a Conference. Then he laughed at
them; now, playing the party game, he uses
them to delude the people. And such things
will go on happening so long as party gov-
ernment exists.
THE small-business-for-a-soldier has had
some nasty remarks made about it by a
Melbourne citizen who has had a lot to do
with “placing” the man just out of khaki.
Thomas Haynes, of the Mt. Lyell Co., an
enthusiastic repatriator, declares that the
purchase of the little businesses mostly
results in throwing the original owners out
of employment and creating a false market,
without compensating advantages. It is a
now well-known fact, of course, that these
wretched lolly-shops have landed the re-
patriation fund in large losses. Excessive
prices have been' paid for goodwills, and the
wrong sort of job has been affection-
ately laid at the feet of the returned soldier.
Bill, with a weak stomach, has been put
into fish-and-chips, and Jim, who likes the
open-air, is asked to make a living in a
stuffy street of shops by turning over 10
bobs’ worth of sweetstuff a day. Haynes
is a constructive critic, however. lie sug-
gests “repatriation working bases,” where
men shall manufacture various goods, to be
sold presently in such a manner that they
“will not disorganise outside labor.” The
French and Belgians are doing this with
thousands of their disabled soldiers. They
call it “re-education,” and they take the
soldier —who, perhaps, can’t even read or
write —and by special processes turn him
into a skilled worker, with a good ground-
ing in the three It’s, in as short a period
as half a year. Still, though we seem to be
fairly alive to the unwisdom of “disorganis-
ing outside labor” —Australian labor, that
j s —b y the reckless initiation of such a
scheme, we let all sorts of people outside
Australia do all sorts of things to our gen-
eral labor supply. Consider the profoundly
disorganising effect of that million’s-wortli
of rubber goods which came hither last year
from the U.S. —and think what a beautiful
start Haynes’s scheme could have made
with a million!
The Australian doesn’t seem to think it worth
young Bill’s while to take a college course in
ploughing. Victoria now pays ±(0,000
a year for farmers’ education, and if
the' State gets half a dozen men a
year for its dray of money it is lucky. Bal-
larat Agricultural High School has just two
students attending for purely agricultural
purposes. Hast year there were B> (an
unlucky number), and, in addition, 100
other students who “were compelled to take
up agricultural education as part of their
system of education.” But that doesn t
seem to be much use, seeing that the High
School can’t follow them into private life
and compel them at the point of the pitch-
fork to apply the knowledge that has been
forced upon them. If there is a successful
method of running agricultural schools, Aus-
tralia and Tasmania seem to have missed
it up to now. Plainly, with very few excep-
tions, these expensive institutions, as man-
aged at present, have not the confidence
either of practical farmers or of discerning
townspeople.
♦
The stream of messages on political sub-
jects allegedly emanating from the Com-
monwealth’s war correspondent and pom-
pously dated from “British Headquarters,
France,” ought to be stopped. Bean’s prin-
cipal occupation seems for some time now
to have been to compose, as substitutes for
information about the war and the Australian
army, dispatches bearing upon affairs in the
Commonwealth. One of these last week
reached the limit of endurance. In this, as
in previous efforts, Bean announced that
great regret was felt in the trenches about
the “narrow parochialism” which prevented
someone speaking at the Imperial Confer-
ence for the soldiers and “the objects, ends
and ideals for which these men have fought
and died.” “Is Australia going to abandon
them?” wildly asked the message, which
went on to observe that the troops were
much discouraged and embittered. Observe
that nothing is said about the resentment
which is certainly also felt in the army, if
it knows the facts, at the pettifogging, hole-
and-corner, place-hunting methods pursued
at Melbourne by Hughes. That side, of
course, gets no chance. Instead there
comes a machine-made rigmarole, based
clearly upon the blankest ignorance of hap-
penings at this end, suggesting that _ the
Australian people are in some sinister
fashion acting as obstructionists and dogs in
the manger. The hand that is pulling this
string is easily seen.. But that does not
relieve Bean of responsibility—assum-
ing the messages are genuine. If they are
he ought to be'either directed to stick to his
war-correspondence or recalled. He was not
sent away to be the tool of a politician or
his agent. Still less was he sent away to
insult the decent people of the Common-
wealth who are standing between a politician
and his tricks. .
The Bulletin gets a line from its friend
the hawker: —
I have over 600 customers, mostly women and
mostly on the land, whom I interview several times
a year, and for long enough to make me sick of
being asked their eternal question: “Why don’t they
make these things here?” I always push Australian
goods when I can get them, but I can’t often get
them. And I ask why, too. Yet here is Carty
Salmon, alleged Protectionist M.P., upending himself
on his cheek and appealing to the women of Vic-
toria to patronise Australian industry! The women,
I find, are mostly willing to pay comparatively high
prices provided work is plentiful and the workers’
wages are high. They know such conditions suit
them. But they can’t buy them at any price; and
why? Salmon, M.P., quotes the importations of
apparel, furs, costumes, perfumery, etc., etc., as
though they were something novel and temporary;
yet he knows quite well that all these things can
be produced and manufactured here for less than
they are now imported, and would be, too, if the
manufacturer got a guarantee that he would not be
subjected to ruination by the dumping that is even
now going on, and which will proceed recklessly after
the war is over. For Salmon, alleged Protectionist,
tj blame the women for not buying when Salmon,
the M.P., has not given them the chance to buy is
thus a piece of brassbound hypocrisy.
--
“Magneto” : One day last month two
motor fishing boats put to sea, one from the
Clarence River (N S.W.), the other from
the Richmond, 100 miles north. The weather
conditions were favorable; nevertheless the
Clarence River craft turned turtle between
the breakwaters, and the Richmond ark filled
up on the bar while the fishermen came
nearer to providing a banquet for the mullet
and the cray than ever before. Last year
10 lives were lost in this manner, more than
have been cast away on the N.S.W. coast
from steamers and sailers in three years. The
explanation is easy. While a seaman can’t
take a vessel to sea without obeying or
disobeying a multitude of regulations, and
a ’longshoreman may not drive a motor-
vehicle without a license, the fisherman is
allowed without hindrance to risk life
Rude.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Entente’s answer to our peace offer was ruder
and more presumptuous than any sensible German
could have imagined. The effect of the Ententes
document of barbarian hatred and scorn is manifest
to the whole world.” —German Chancellor. .
Their answer was so rude. No German
Nurtured in Kultur, dreamt of aught like
There/bash on bang, wounding our ranks
behind; , .. . , G A
The Allied wallop moves with might to hnd
The breaking point it seemed so long to miss
When thundering through our long defences
stout . ,
Our soft retreat they turn into a rout.
We talked of peace, hiding the poison blade
We meant to plunge politely in then- heart.
A laughter edged the answer that they
Loud* hmghter of their shell-fire unafraid
That crashed wild ruin on us night and day,
Until through mud and mist we crept away.
Rude and barbaric was their scorn and hate!
We are ashamed to see them show such
snleen!
They did not even wait till Spring grew
°TGGII, . .
But rushed upon us like despair and fate.
Peace was our offer. “Peace, the rude men
“Will* come all right when most of you are
dead.”
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


WHAT CO-OPERATION CAN DO FOR THE FARMER.
11 The workers’ power, industrially and politically, is due solely to efficient union organisation. The principal duty of each union is to safeguard the commoditj
each of its members sells, i.e., his labor. Thus, the unionist is able to secure the full value for his labor.
H But what of the Farmer?
H Unorganised, and practically without any direct representation on the bodies that decide what he shall receive for his products and labor, the farmer is absolutely
at the mercy of armies of middlemen and agents and of organised labor.
U (.o-operation amongst farmeis is the only lenxedy. New /Zealand supplies many examples of the benefits farmers mav secure from co-operative organisations.
H And the same benefits can be obtained in insurance; for in a co-operative insurance company the shareholding policy-holders secure the profits their business
creates.
TtFarmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited.
IS THE FARMERS' INSURANCE CO.
OWNED BY FARMERS AND
CONTROLLED ENTIRELY IN THEIR INTERESTS.
INSURE IN YOUR OWN COMPANY.
SIX PER CENT. DIVIDEND WAS PAID LAST YEAR.
Fullest particulars gladly
supplied on application —
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches in QUEENSLAND,
VICTORIA & S. AUSTRALIA.
in a petrol-driven boat as often as
lie pleases and whether he knows a
thing about it or not. It wouldn’t be
so bad if his own life only were at stake;
but his rescuers—generally the capable coast-
guard—have to take their chance in the
gamble with Davy Jones. If the fisherman
isn’t worth while protecting the coast-
guardsman is, and somebody ought to be
spurred to see to it.
We, Willie and Woodrow.
It seems as if the German had formed a
fairly shrewd judgment of the United States
when he let the submarine loose on neutral
shipping. And it is not likely that, when
Berlin hears that Wilson’s Bill seeking
authority to arm Yankee merchantmen has
been capsized, there will be any great
anxiety to grant the Stars and Stripes ex-
emption from torpedo practice. Apparently
so long as there is anyone in the Senate at
Washington physically capable of talking
against time the President who was too proud
to fight will have to sit down and find out
what it feels like to be treated with con-
tempt. All this appears to be a fairly sub-
stantial indication that the U.S.A. will be
thoroughly prepared for war some day—pro-
bably about five years after it has arrived
on the premises. What with the prevalence
-of Notes and talk, it is highly probable that
Uncle Sam may be so immersed in words
when the present war finishes that he will
want the whole thing to start over again to
see if he can find out where he ought to be.
There will be no seconder to that motion,
though, for the war has already gone long
enough to banish any enthusiasm for another
dose. Every nation taking a hand is show-
ing more strength than it imagined at the
start was available, and each is bleeding
more than it conceived would be possible.
How much longer it will last nobody knows,
but the time may perhaps be ripe for big,
dramatic changes. The third year of such
a. war surely ought to produce something
definite. Judging by the movements on the
Western Front there will certainly be mighty
happenings there, and soon. Yet perhaps not
so soon as the Allies had hoped for. There
seems little doubt that the Germans have
spoiled plans for an Allied blow by falling
back, thus practising the “swinging-door” act
that the boxers talk about. But how that is
going to help them in the long run is not
clear. The only available explanation is that
they are side-stepping to gain time, in the
vain hope that the submarines may yet make
Britain squeal for peace on any terms.
- ♦
A WEEK ago it was to Hughes “impera-
tively necessary” that the British Parliament
should be asked to extend the life of the
House of Reps, and the Senate. Now it is
imperatively necessary to hold a general elec-
tion instead. This time the Ministry is
right. After prolonged fumbling in the dark,
taking soundings here and soundings there,
groping round and round to find the line of
least resistance and discovering itself always
on the wrong trail, the Government merely
does what should have been done three
months ago, because at length it can’t do any-
thing else. There is no sense at all in groaning
about the “unreasonableness of the Opposi-
tion preventing the attendance of Mr.
Hughes at the Imperial Conference.” Aus-
tralia can be represented at the Conference
by the High Commissioner if it is necessary
to have representation at once. That is what
we have a High Commissioner for. To say
that we must hold over a general election, and
put up with a Parliament which was never
much good and is now worse than useless,
in order that one man may escape to London,
is absurd. The curious thing is that the
people who are saying that thing the most
loudly are the very ones who lass than a
year ago were denouncing Hughes, secre-
tary of the Waterside Labor Federation, as
the most mischievous person in Australia.
..
One of the most humiliating spectacles of
last week was afforded by William Irvine,
who, being thrown temporarily on the same
side of the House as William Hughes,
found it necessary to get up in his place and
oppose Tudor’s motion that a Royal Com-
mission should inquire into the charges of
attempted bribory_jmd corruption made in
the Senate against the Prime Minister and
the Minister for Defence. As a man of high
principle, against whose personal integrity
no charge has ever been made, Irvine must
have known that there was only one right
thing to do. That was to probe these
charges of corruption to the very roots, and
have the job done, not by political partisans,
but by the impartial and trained Judges of
the High Court, as Tudor proposed. But,
caught in the party toils, Irvine was in the
place where it was demanded of him to do
some special pleading. Yet even such an
expert could not make a decent job of it;. He
could only say, as an excuse why a Royal
Commission should not be appointed, that
Parliament was above Royal Commissions,
and that Parliament alone must be the judge
in such a matter. History of course simply
mocks at this contention. When charges
were made against Griffith in N. S. Wales
the other day, compare the attitude of
Holman with that of Irvine in the present
case! Holman did not talk piffle about the
dignity of Parliament —he moved for the
appointment of a Royal Commission. And
so would Irvine have done if he had been
free to do as he would do in his private and
professional life. That he should have had
to use such an argument in order to excuse
a vote against Tudor’s proposition really
provides an overwhelming reason why
Tudor’s motion should have been carried.
Meantime Hughes and Pearce should do no
less than Griffith did.
—♦
“T.P>.” : I have had two years of exile from
Australia, seven months of that period in
Anzac and 10 months in the Sinai desert.
I have never lost a day off duty through ill-
ness or being crimed, and I fluked a Mili-
tary Medal at Romani. Prior to leaving
Australia I turned down the chance of a
commission, and came away as a private,
being anxious to get on the job as soon as
possible. Since the evacuation from Anzac
I have been trying to resuscitate the chance
mentioned, but I find that even qualification
at the Officers’ Training College, Cairo,
would not assist me in my search for stars.
Educationally, physically and otherwise I
believe. I present no barrier. I have matricu-
lated, am a sound 13st., can shoot and put
up with being shot at fairly comfortably,
and “stand” pretty well in the opinion of
my own immediate supervisory. But all the
old commissioned regime of my acquaint-
ance figures now only on the Roll of Honor,
so I am friendless of that ilk at present.
Hence I would be obliged if The Bulletin
would save me 10 years’ field punishment by
inquiring what percentage of commissions
the authorities have allotted to the 0.T.C.,
Cairo, for the benefit of those who qualify
there, and who, like myself, have only the
recommendation of the officers they soldier
under, through making the mistake of coming
away to the Front too soon.
The Australian is an illogical cuss. *The
Maltese who spent a dreary fortnight or so
hanging over the rails of a French steamer
at Circular Quay a couple of months ago
came back to Sydney last week, and were
promptly interned on the hulk Anglian in a
backwater of Sydney Harbor for fear they
might take some of the humble dirt-shifting
jobs from the superior Australians. Yet
the foreign-made goods of millions of such
men pour in every year and the superior
Australian at his dirt-shifting has to extort
a record high wage by continuous striking
in order that he may pay for them. No
wonder so few foreigners bother to come
here. They can own the country comfort-
ably by staying out of it and sending their
products instead.
“ChaF : Why don’t “F.C.’s” underpaid
friends the Melbourne fruitgrowers and
vegetable-gardeners (B. 8/2/Y7) take a
lesson from their S. Australian brethren?
In the supply of the Adelaide metropolitan
area, the packer, wholesaler or middleman,
is cut right out. The East End Markets
are used solely for the distribution of fruit
and vegetables. These markets, unlike the
Central Market, are not municipally owned,
but are more or less in the nature of co-
operative concerns. When the cos. were
floated, the market-gardeners, fruitgrowers
and salesmen were given the first oppor-
tunity of investing, and there are very few
growers of any standing that have not
some sort of interest in the property.
A market is held every. Monday, Wednesday
and Friday. The growers sell their produce
personally from die ground to the hawkers
or fruit-shop proprietors, who in turn sell
direct to the consumer. The result is that
fresh fruit and vegetables are always obtain-
able at reasonable prices in the Holy City.
East year the apple and pear crop of S.
Aus. was a record one; yet, notwithstand-
ing the enforced closure of the profitable
European markets, the orchardists had an
exceptionally good year. This was largely
due to the fact that S. Aus. is blessed with
a great number of reputable fruit and vege-
table hawkers who supply practically the
whole of the Adelaide suburbs. Even in the
full flush of the season the price of the best
fruit never fell below 3s. 6d. per 401 b. case,
which was profitable to the grower and
enabled the hawker to distribute at per
lb. and get a good return. Later on the cold-
storage fruit averaged 7s. to Bs. per case
net to the grower and the demand exceeded
the supply. The S.A. gardeners and fruit-
growers, who incidentally are all good White
Australians, have also established a co-
operative jam and sauce factory. Despite
vigorous opposition, their lines have now
secured a firm footing on the local market,
and the business for the past few years
lias been paying a comfortable 8 per cent.
Do It Yourselves!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Pink Lady”
Palace “Very Good Eddie”
Tivoli Mcl ntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum . Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre . Moving Pictures
IJnion Theatri s Moving Pictures
Garden The Smart Set
White City Various Shows
MELBOl'l! \K SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “a Waltz Dream”
Royal “Intolerance”
Princess’s Gonsalez Opera Co.
King’s “Turn to the Right”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe V Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “Romeo and Juliet”
AtheN/EUm Magician Malini & Co.
Thomas A. Braidon and Elma Royton,
who have been on a continual burst at Syd-
ney Criterion since February 8, show signs
of sobering up. The supply of cocktails is
not expected to last more than another
week. In these days when other pubs close at
6 p.m. the Criterion remains open till 11 ;
and the next best thing to getting drunk
yourself is to go there and watch how charm-
ingly Thomas A. Braidon and Elma Royton
manage it.
“The Pink Lady” continues at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, and Florence Young’s
musical indignation meeting when the
frisky Dondidier goes to embrace her is bet-
ter than all the election fun we’re going to
have presently.
“FAIR AND WARMER," AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
The newlywed kiss as demonstrated by Elma
Roy ton and Percy Marmont.
The public is still tracking to Sydney
Palace to size up “Very Good Eddie” and
then wandering round to the music-shops to
get handfuls of the popcorn music for the
borne piano. Jerome Kern, the U.S. com-
poser, knows how to make it light and
sugary.
Sydney Tivoli is feeling much better since
Fred Bluett resumed. It is said that he
had a fight with the Pacific Ocean and
injured his leg. A little grand opera in
plain clothes lias been poured into the bill
by Elsie Peerless, a lyric soprano who is
seconded by Nicholas Gehde (at the piano)
and tenor Martinelli. Malcolm McEachern
still juggles magnificently with chest-notes
(not “chestnuts” —that’s a different vaude-
ville line), and Stewart and Lorraine play
plain banjos and then get more or less
interesting music out of all sorts of things.
With 21b. of butter, an ants-nest and a
bucket of potato peelings for instruments,
Stewart and Lorraine could get the worst out
of a Wagner opera. Besides these there are
Zona Trador (violiniste), Rose and Dell
(dancers), De Forrest (trickster), Taki-
ness Duo, and Lingarde, who poses.
Risky turns on “the Alps” at the White
City (Sydney) are becoming a feature of
the big show. Last week it was a rescue
act that supplied the thrill ; this week it
is Dentine, who is doing a “death ride.”
This turn is under the patronage of the
Undertakers’ Association. The usual carni-
val will give the hours flying feet to-night.
The Smart Set (no relation of W. M.
Hughes and Co.) is all merriment this week
at the Garden Theatre, the current revue,
“The Bandit,” providing unusually good
fun. Miss Georgie Martin, to whom a
great deal of the success of the show is due,
can take The Bulletin’s assurance that she
earns the applause and offers of marriage
she receives nightly. ®
Sermons and frivols on Sydney screens
this week :
Hoyt's : “The Garden of Eden,” in which a
dinlcum clergyman climbs into a Metro, film to dis-
cuss whether marriage is necessary. Strong evi-
dence in support. Anyway, there would be a lot
more scandals than there are to-day if the woman
wasn’t married.
Crystal Palace: “Truthful Tulliver,” an editor
of the Wild West who writes his leaders with a pair
of six-shooters.
Lyric : “The Monkey Raffles,” starring “Jacko,”
the wonderful chimpanzee-actor in the recently-shown
“Circus of Death.”
Empress: “The Female of the Species,” thrilling
adventures in man-hunting.
“Turn to the Right” is set for a fairly
long innings at Melbourne King’s. Its
message of hope to the sinner is wafted
across the footlights in an imaginary odor
of strawberry jam and crushed peaches, and
the moral would be almost convincing if
Taits could introduce a genuine smell of jam-
factory into the auditorium. Then it
wouldn’t be quite so like other gentle melo-
dramas that have gone before. Besides the
similarities previously alluded to, Beacon Til-
linger, who endeavors to cliowse the angelic
widow Bascom out of her wondrous fruit-
growing property, is a reincarnation of
Beacon Skinner in “Struck Oil.” And when
Tillinger’s claim upon the widow is settled
by the miraculous agency of Gilly the house-
breaker, and the baffled psalm-smiter is
shooed off the premises by a bloke who picks
his pocket en route, the audience feels much
the same as when Elijah Coombe is ordered
out of Mrs. Denver’s cottage by that model
wife and mother. Nothing is strictly origi-
nal in “Turn to the Right,” except the
notion of the naughty boys and the nice girls
skipping away to an “uplift” meeting after
the Beacon has been deftly robbed of the
payment which was previously stolen from
his own caslibox. This situation is a shriek
of unhallowed joy. Lizette Parkes, Nancye
Stewart and Eileen Sparks are very nice
girls, and the four balding men have im-
proved on their first-night performance.
The ill-balanced revival of the “Rivals,”
wherein Bob Acres cuts insufficient ice and
none of the other characters are strikingly
personified, will end to-night at Melbourne
Princess’s. Allan Wilkie’s honorable season
concludes to-morrow with one last grand
final farewell performance of “Hamlet.” On
Saturday comes the Italian Opera Co.,
which gave such uncommonly good musical
value for the money a few months ago. The
co., which has completed a Maoriland tour
without losing any of its principals through
internal dissensions, will re-open proceed-
ings in “II Trovatore,” with Cappelli as the
heroic tenor. This will be followed next
week by one night each of “Lucia,” “Caval-
leria,” “Traviata,” “Faust” and “La
Boheme.” The panto, closed its Melbourne
account on Wednesday, and already that
large, imposing spectacle is being packed up
for removal. No previous panto, has been
thus cut short in its prime; therefore Mel-
bourne is haunted by a suspicion that “The
House that Jack Built” will be reared again
on the same foundation at some time to
come. On Saturday the “So Long, Letty,”
co. returns to Her Majesty’s in “A Waltz
Bream,” and William Green, the new mem-
ber of the co., will make his first Melbourne
appearance. .
Producer George Barnum, the well-known
trainer of American crooks for the Aus-
tralian stage, who leaves shortly for
America.
At Melbourne Royal Babylon is falling
into the middle of the Crucifixion, and the
blood of the St. Bartholomew massacre is
spattering a modern hanging matter. Also.
Cyrus’s warriors are training machine-guns
on the Louvre, while a motor-car tries to
upset Belshazzar as he stops to light a cigar
in the streets of Jerusalem. Anyway, that
is how the mind feels after drinking the in-
coherence of “Intolerance.” With all its


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DIBTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
jtEZ
When Winter Comes
good, warm riding breeches may 'be very scarce. It would
be good policy to buy now. We quote a special Winter-
weight in very heavy and extra-strong whipcord, Khaki-green
shade, made with two side and hip pockets, leather strapped
knees and laces, all seams stoutly sewn. An ideal garment
for riders in cold districts.
Ready to -Wear, 37/0.
• We Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 (St 311 George Street, Sydney.
ethical propaganda the huge film is only a
distended Amurkan nightmare, accompanied
by the smell of incense and a large brassy
orchestra.
The only change at Melbourne Tivoli
last Saturday was the reappearance of
the Chinese-Amurkan warbler, Sen-Mei.
The Passing Show Co. falls out of the bill
to-morrow night and a -fresh lot of people
will fall in on Saturday. Whether audiences
will follow suit depends on the quality of
the new arrivals. The Bulletin is hoping
for the best.
“TURN TO THE RIGHT," AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Vincent J. Dennis
as Sam Martin
grown suceessful.
John Junior as
Muggs.
Malini, “the Napoleon of Magic,” is just
now appealing to students of sleight-of-liand
at Melbourne Athenaeum Hall. The chirpy
little magician is a pastmaster in the art of
making things vanish and return in defiance
of the closest scrutiny. 11 is tricks with
cards, eggs, bank-notes and handkerchiefs
are wonderful to the people in the front
seats, and his manner is as bright as his
methods; but the show of conjuring is
purely a drawing-room entertainment, nor
does Malini do anything which could make
tlie best wizards of the past turn in their
graves. The rest of the show is musical, and
the honest, unaffected warble of Miss Mary
Lyle is the most pleasing feature of it.
The popular vampire, Theda Bara, keeps
within the bounds of probability in the Fox
film version of “Romeo and Juliet,” at Mel-
bourne Auditorium. To be sure, Theda
hardly portrays a Juliet who has never glad-
eyed passing gallants. Her first canoodle
with Romeo is somewhat vampirical; but
on the whole she presents a lady lm. e
refreshing and innocent than her familiar
type of man-hunting drug-fiend. Another
prominent Fox identity, Harry Hilliard,
puts the right amount of treacle and tem-
perament into the part of Romeo. The
Nurse is a large quantity of motherly solici-
tude ; Tybalt is a characteristic fire-eater
and sword-swallower; and all the other
roles are satisfactorily depicted.
The Dandies are appearing in various
repetitions at St. Kilda (Yic ). Last Satur-
day night the whole company dropped back
into “The Zuyder Zee,” which has already
seen some strenuous service. For the
manyth time Pearlie McKenzie bleated a
sentimental melody which even when new
was almost too babyish to be borne with
patience. Also two or three kindly
rendered ancient items “by Request.” Mr.
Request is a popular emergency composer
with the Dandies. Latterly he has been
working hard enough to be removed from
the squad of honorary assistants and fast-
ened on the permanent salary list.
Ethel Barrymore has pride of place on
Hoyt’s Melbourne programme this week.
The popular Yankee actress is the outstand-
ing detail of an effusive Metro rendering of
“The Awakening of Helena Ritchie.” The
other star present is the lady embarrassed
with the name of Muriel Ostriche. This
time the vehicle of her emotion is a tame
and undistinguished yarn called “A Circus
Romance.”
The Melbourne he-clerk has had his wages
raised by a ha’penny an hour, and the she-
clerk gets a farthing. This is the result of
a prolonged, expensive agitation which lias
continued fitfully ever since Judge Cussen’s
determination of December, 1914. The Court
of Industrial Appeals, before which the
appeal was heard, was constituted by Justice
Agincourt Hodges and two assessors. The
Clerks’ Union wanted £4 a week and equal
pay for equal work, no matter whether male
or female did it; but the case for the em-
ployees wilted after the first spraying of
judicial remarks, and never revived. ’Sonah
scoffed at the idea of paying a woman as
much for addressing 1000 envelopes as a
man should get for the same job; and he
generally treated tlie wdiole business as rather
beneath his notice. Still, if Cussen’s award
in 1914 was inadequate (565. male and 325.
female were the highest rates) the increase
in the cost of living will hardly be covered
by the extra bob or two. It follows, of
course, that Willie wiJJ. just have to do with
dripping instead of jam and wear his boots a
year or two longer, while pa does his best to
earn a bit on the side.
Sands and McDougall’s Melbourne
Directory is a steadily-expanding volume.
The 1917 edition, just issued, is a young
library of information running to 3082 pages
and bound in the attractive style for which
the big Melbourne firm is noted.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Sydney-born composer George H. Clut-
sam gets high praise from the London critics
for the music he has contributed to the
patriotic pageant, “Young England,” pro-
duced with complete success at. Daly’s
Theatre. The Reeekee calls the score “high
and scholarly in quality, and charmingly
tuneful and graceful—the nearest thing to
Sullivan that we have had for years.” The
piece is written around the picturesque per-
sonality and stirring times of Sir Francis
Drake, and makes a vivid appeal to present-
day patriotic sentiments. Clutsam is 50, and
his life lias been about equally divided
between Sydney and London. He is practi-
cally a seif-taught musician, and is quite a
handy man in the business. He composes
capital songs, shines as accompanist at con-
certs, and has turned out some excellent
musical criticism for London’s leading Sun-
day paper, the Observer.
“J.F.11.”: Went to the Shaftesbury to
witness the first appearance of Harry
Lauder in revue and beheld a remarkable
triumph of an Australian dancer, Ivy
Shilling. After one brilliant acrobatic duet
between Ivy and Ffed Leslie, the huge and
delighted audience clamored for an encore
and held tlie stage up for five minutes. The
two principals, Harry Lauder and Ethel
Levey, came on under the impression that
their advent would stop the cheering and
clapping, but to their undisguised astonish-
ment and disgust it grew louder, and they
recognised too late that the audience did not
want them but the vivacious Gippsland girl
and her partner. Their pride as principals
would not permit them to retreat, and they
held their ground obstinately. Finally
there was a consultation, which resulted in
Ethel Levey advancing to the footlights and
alleging that Ivy was “changing her cos-
tume.” True or otherwise, this served its
purpose and the revue was allowed to pro-
ceed. The piece is called “Three Cheers,”
and does not disclose anything original. It
revolves around a story of a legacy .of
£50,000 which Harry Lauder will receive
provided he conducts himself with strict
propriety for a prescribed period. Of
course he is subjected to all sorts of temp-
tations, the handsome Yankee Jewess. Ethel
Levey, just married to aviator Graham
White, figuring as siren-in-chief. .We were
promised some new ditties by Harry Lauder,
but his music for the most part was merely
a hash of his over-familiar warblings of the
-loving-lassie pattern. lie gets into khaki
and goes to the Front, and this gives him
an opportunity of singing “The Laddies
Who Fought and Won,” which is his best
effort. It is said to have been written and
composed by himself.
Last time W. M. Hughes’s Colossal Show
appeared in London it suited the Northcliffe
newspapers to boom it for all it was worth.
Houses were packed and the adroit busker
had even crowned heads amongst the
duchesses and Pekinese poodles that occu-
pied the front seats. But when the show
returned and commenced its Australian sea-
son all that was changed. It got the bird—
got it so good and hard that the agents in
London, where a return season had been
booked, sprouted icicles on their feet and the
halfpenny press promptly hinted that there
was likely to be nothing doing. Then the
loop-the-loop artist had a great idea. This
is how it blossomed in the Sydney news-
papers during the week :
Mr. Claude McKay, who has been publicity man-
ager for J. C. Williamson, Ltd., for a number of
years, will be on Mr. Hughes’s secretarial staff.
Unfortunately, somebody threw a dead cat
at the Colossal Showman just then, and at
time of writing he was still ricocheting.
The Sydney Metliodies have been wrest-
ling conscientiously with a devil who has
gold in his teeth. When the centrally-situ-
ated Mission Hall (old Lyceum Theatre)
was hired by picture-man Spencer, the holy
landlords promised themselves that no films
would be shown that gave Sin a leg-up. It
was a difficult ideal to live up to by deputy
in these daring times, and last week a
heavily-whiskered . Conference practically
censured the board of trustees for allowing
the tenants to go over the chalk-line. When
the debaters really warmed up the press was
asked to retire, and they raged furiously
together behind closed doors. From the
sound of trampling and snorting within, the
financial devil seemed to be putting up a
great fight.
“Snell”: They had employed a fine, fruity
old actor of my acquaintance, who once acted
with Brooke, sir, to describe the events of a
great film. He had been gathered from the
Decayed Tragedians’ Retreat, and recited
the turgid stuff with the elocutionaly mag-
nificence of his period (a.d. 1875). But
the artistic sensibilities of a tragedian who
once acted with Brooke, sir, revolted at the
task, nevertheless, and sitting close up to
the platform this is a specimen of what 1
heard: "Here the vividness of the setting,
combined with the ability of the actors,
serves to bring out the full intensity of the
situation.” (Hoarse aside: “But the
on the left can’t act!”) On with the story:
“We see the beautiful, brave and virtuous
heroine in the hands of her cruel captors.”
(Hoarse aside: “Heroine’s a stick:”)
“Sir Arthur’s rescue is almost a stroke of
genius. Lady Ann is saved. The foiled
villains are secured in the dungeon destined
for this lovely and virtuous but most misfor-
tunate'woman.” (Hoarse aside: “The man
has neither appearance nor action. Pah!”)
And so on. Thus the fine old stock actor
earned his fee, while preserving the profes-
sional pride of an artist who, by the way,
once acted with Brooke, sir.
Beaumont Smith gave an invitation
screening of his film, “Our Friends the
Hayseeds,” at Sydney Royal last week. It
is a creditable Australian product; but the
most striking feature of it is the bushfire
the author stole from the South Australian
fruit and hay coclcies.
“J.F.11.”: Australia’s Madge Titheradge
lias scored unmistakably as principal boy
in her first Drury Lane panto. As Prince
Florian in “Puss in New Boots” she sings
and dances delightfully. And she does more
—she recites a patriotic poem by Alfred
Noyes in a style that makes enthusiasm boil
over. Madge makes love to Florence Smith-
son. and this owner of a gold-mine at Yaclc-
andandah is referred to by the Times
critic as “trilling out her high notes as
delicately as ever.”
“Philm” : There’s a star cast and no mis-
take for the film version of Tom Taylor and
Charles Reade’s old-time comedy “Masks
and Faces” just produced in London; and
when the picture comes this way Australian
playgoers will recognise several old favor-
ite's. Irene Vanbrugh is Peg Woffington;
Forbes Robertson, Triplet; Lillah McCar-
thy, Kitty Clive; Dot Boucicault, Colly
Cibber; 11. B. Irving, Colander; Matheson
Lang, Mistress Woffington’s coachman.
Other front-rank mummers appearing are
Gladys Cooper, Allan Aynesworth, George
Alexander, Gerald du M nurier, Winifred
Emery, Doris Keane and Weedon Gros-
smith. A nice little salary-list if salaries
were paid. But they were not. The
players all gave their services gratis, the film
being produced for the benefit of the London
Academy of Dramatic Art.
From the U.S.A.: —
Nance O'Neil, lately married and very buxom, lias
hardly any time to call her man her own. She is
providing heroines in out.sizes for a movie corpora-
tion, and has just figured in “Greed,” a chapter in
an allegorical serial called “The Seven Deadly Sins.”
She is also panting spasmodically on the regular
stage, and rehearsing for a Belasco bellowdrama
entitled “The Wanderer.” O. P. Ileggie, the old
Adelaide identity, has been doing sound work with
John Barrymore in Galsworthy’s “Justice” on tour.
Jerome Patrick, the young Maori lander, gets a share
of the honors in “The Little Lady in Blue,” which
opened at the Belasco Theatre, New York, at
“TURN TO THE
EIGHT,” at
MELBOURNE
KING'S.
George Chalmers
as Deacon Tillin-
ger, feeling nasty.
Christinas. Tempe Pigott, also late of Australia,
was last seen at Union Hill, N.J., dispensing the
arctic gentility of Mrs. Chichester in “Peg o’ My
Heart.” Sir Herbert Tree, dropping in at Chicago
for a charity matinee, astonished that hamlet with
a glistening snapshot of Svengali. Maud Allan, back
at the New York Palace, has got closer to Nature
in a strange Oriental dance, “Nair, the Slave” ; but
one wfluld need a search warrant to discover art or
beauty in it. Our large friend Eleonora de Cisneros
supplied the ballast for a recent Cincinnati perform-
ance of “Pagliaeci” ; and John McCormack has been
turning notes into gold in one or two recitals at
Cleveland, Ohio. Fred Niblo is lying off and buying
alpenstocks preparatory to scaling Mt. McKinley with
a party of brave friends. Also Dr. Cook, who found
the North Pole before it had escaped to another
address, is still living on his former notoriety as a
small lecturer in vaudeville. Instructive to notice,
by the way, is the looming importance of G. 13.
Pshaw. In addition to “Getting Married,” New
York is hearing his “Great Catherine” from a com-
pany headed by Gertrude Kingston at the little
Neighborhood Theatre. Gertrude is also doing an
anonymous one-actcr, “The Inca of Jerusalem,” which
has been fathered on to Pshaw. Incidentally touring
and earning dividends are “Arms and the Man” and
“Mrs. Warren’s Profession.”
Ou Bernhardt’s recent appearance in a
trio of short plays at the New York Empire,
a greeting “on behalf of the actors of
America” was read by Rose Coghlan, whom
the New York press describes as “a grand old
woman of the theatre.” But the aged Rose
is not a compatriot of Woodrow Wilson.
She was originally an English actress, sister
of Charles Coghlan, the leading man of the
Bancroft Co. in days of long ago, and she
made her first big success as the heroine in
a play called “All For Her” (borrowed from
Dickens’s “Tale of Two Cities”) nearly 42
years back. There are a host of ’Murkan
mummers these times who wouldn’t sub-
scribe to any address of welcome to Bern-
hardt, the bitter enemy of Prussia.
At last! George M. Cohan, brother-in-
law of Fred Niblo and theatre millionaire,
has been bitten by the movie bug. Australia
will see Cohan first in “Broadway Jones,”
one of his best plays, introduced to Australia
by Niblo.
“C. Orkney” : There are few black-and-
white artists who have dabbled in grease-
paint; fewer still who have made any mark
as professional mummers. Bernard Part-
ridge, the principal cartoonist of London
Punch, was, however, earning a good salary
as a jeune premier for some time previous
to settling down to his second string. Known
on the boards as Bernard Gould, was
the original Clement Hale in Pinero’s “Sweet
La vender” in 1888. Also he was one of the
first to score in Bernard Shaw, being the
Major Saranoff in the production in Eng-
land of "Arms and .the Man” in 1894.
“S.”: “Turn to the Right” is another
instance of the American playmaker’s ina-
bility to sustain his flight. Two acts of the
comedy are very gay and festive and good
enough (on the lower plane) to justify a
temporary success; but Act 3 is a pitiful
sort of fizzle, in which nothing happens except
such usual, harmless, necessarv weddings as
might easily have been left to the imagina-
tion of the most unimaginative. Lots of
Americans can separately w ite one good
act; but even lots of Americans in combina-
tion cannot write' three good acts.
“Norbell” : Talking of gagging, it was an
Australian mummer who was playing the
First* Gravedigger when Yorick’s skull
started to roll down-stage. He promptly
scooped Exhibit A back with his shovel and
chirruped; “Whoa, Emma!”
(Continued on page J/2.)
Hobart hasn't much hope of cheap steak.
Syd Kidman and Arthur Staughton lately
hustled around the Speck in an endeavor to
buy up a couple of thousand cattle with
which to stock their new King Island
estates. They couldn’t get a hoof! Meat
is a shilling a pound in Hobart and still
rising, all herds are depleted—-and an ante-
diluvian Government is spending its remain-
ing few bob in burning off pastures.
Five of the contingent that went from
N. S. Wales in 1885 to the Soudan (and
returned to make a Roman holiday for
Hop.) are fighting in this war! The other
day the annual celebration of the embarka-
tion was held, but only 40 of the picnickers
could be mustered.
Retired-Senator Rudolph Ready, whose
health gave Hughes a chance to make his
new colleagues horribly uncomfortable, is
not of a robust physique. When he first
entered Parliament, with his spare build, full
head of short hair and youthful face, he
seemed an absurdly boyish figure among the
bald heads and whiskers. His later adoption
of a paget coat and a statesmanlike manner
have done little to dispel the illusion of a
junior-clerk astray in the wrong shop. Ready
is a kindly, polite, mildly cynical young man.
with the manner of a curate and a machinery
agent’s flow of speech.
William Drummond, the Collins-street
jeweller, died last Sunday. The tall, hand-
some old Drummond, in his final years of
blindness, was often spoken of by Melbourne
veterans as a pathetic reminder of the time
when luJ and the late Henry Butler were an
inseparable pair of men-about-town. They
were both over 6ft. high, portly and com-
manding, and they wore their belltoppers on
the back of their heads as they roamed
abroad after dinner. Drummond bore his
affliction pluckily. He was often seen at the
theatre when grand-opera offered. As he
sat there drinking in the music and trying
to picture the scene in his mind’s eye, the
blind man would turn to his companion and
ask whisperingly whether one or other of
the well-remembered incidents had yet come
to pass.
WALTER’S RASH EXTRAVAGANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She sat beside me at the play,
A little, wrinkled dame;
She saw the villain blithe and gay
Lose thousands at the game;
She saw him in a motor-car
Pay thousands down for votes;
She saw him shouting at the bar,
And madly lighting his cigar
With crisp, new five-pound notes.
He bribed a tough with bags of gold
To steal his brother's girl ;
He gave the Countess black and bold
The income of an earl;
He ran a private yacht, and tried
To buy a Sultan’s hoard....
Up rose my neighbor, goggle-eyed.
“No wonder, Walter Holmes,” she cried,
“You cannot pay your board!”
VICTOIUA.
STARGAZER.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
. De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
DESTROY STOMACH ACIDS BY
TAKING MAGNESIA.
If you suffer from indigestion or dys-
pepsia, you doubtless have a grievance
against your stomach—it hurts you. Pos-
sibly you know that you can alleviate this
pain and pacify your stomach by taking
some pepsin or powerful pain-killing drug
after meals, but is it wise to make such a
patched-up peace with your stomach?
Remember that in nine cases out of ten it
is excessive acidity that causes stomach
pain, and that drugs and medicines should
only be used when the stomach is actually
diseased, which rarely is the case, and then
only on your physician’s advice. Drugs may
numb the pain, but the sense of security and
well-being they give you is usually false,
because they do not destroy the acid which
almost invariably is the cause of the trouble.
There is really only one preparation which
can be relied upon to do this, and that is
bisurated magnesia, which most chemists
stock in powder and tablet form. Half a
teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia powder or
two compressed tablets taken with a little
water after meals will neutralise the acid
instantly, and also prevent all possibility
of the food fermenting in the stomach. It
is because of this well-known fact -that
bisurated magnesia is now so extensively
used in hospitals.— Advt.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
SOCIETY
“Machete” gives a testimonial: —
Between the Bedouin of song and story and the
Bedouin who scratches his way through a precarious
and fleasome existence on the Sinai Peninsula, there
is a gulf as wide as that which stretches between
yesterday and to-morrow. Twelve months’ campaign-
ing in the haunts infested by the rapacious and
uncleanly land pirate, with his camel and other
even more awful companions, furnishes proof positive
that truth is more staggering than journalism.
Among all the men whom Uriah the Hittite's royal
pul called liars, the writer .@f stuff like the
“Bedouin Love Song” goes out at 0 to 4 on. When
the Bedouin chances to come from the desert he
does so not on “a stallion shod with fire” but on a
measly and sore-backed ass or a dreadful camel which
transcends all other camels in evilness and general
blankiness. If the noble savage is too down-and-out
for an ass even, he walks on his gaunt shanks, and
his worldly possessions are borne behind him by the
ladies of his harem, who have even the camels dished
when it comes to a comparison of moral or general
undesirability.
The Bedouin ekes out an unnecessary liv-
ing by selling his date crop in some hocl,
or palm grove, to Greek speculators in Ismailia or
Suez—and they are birds of much the same feather.
Sales are often made for years ahead, and it is
SMALLER CHARGE AND LESS REPORT.
INEXPERIENCED SHE: “Would you recommend the lawyer who got you your last
divorce?”
EXPERIENCED SHE: “Well, his charges are reasonable, but I’ve enjoyed more
notoriety with others.”
one of the consolations of this war, as far as the
Desert Column is concerned, to think that this year,
at . least, either or both of the contracting black-
guards are in the soup, because the Turks and our
troops have between them eaten all the dates.
Besides growing dates, our friend runs mobs of
undiscriminating goats and sheep in the desert
scrub, and he also plants barley when the soil will
let him. Robbery and peculation generally are the
breath of his nostrils, lie is as neutral as a Yankee
trader, digging up our buried dead to strip them,
and robbing and maltreating the many Turkish
deserters who have lately been coming from Pales-
tine into our lines. He is no sportsman either. One
of our aviators, dropped ‘in the sea by a faulting
engine, swam ashore the other day, to be met on
the beach by one of the local magnates, who, after
shooting and robbing him, left him for dead.
There is another breed of Bedouin which is to be
found in Cairo and other large centres. He presents
appearances of having been washed, and is rich,
usually owning an Arab stud. When you try to
buy a horse from him or watch the running of his
Arab steeds at Gezireh races you realise that he is
a really-tiuly Bedouin, though he calls himeelf
“Shiekh.” This world is full of disillusionment.
-»**■*
“Helersy”: We didn’t expect to see the
Fatted Calf smoking on the dock when we
arrived, but we had hopes cf a meat-pie. No
luck ! We were hurried off the boat on to
a troopship, and told that we would get
something to eat at Exeter, where local
ladies would attend with refreshments. One
of our chaps managed to pinch a loaf of
bread, which was all we had till we arrived
at Exeter at !) o’clock that night. Well, we
pictured dainty girls flitting round us, and
we had “inside” information that our raging
hunger would be appeased. What we event-
imllv got was one bum —heaved at us through
the carriage window by an old josser
who-seemed to think lie was feeding bears.
Later, we went through a modified form of
Inquisition termed a Clothing Board. It
was humorous. We had to take an oath that
we had never been issued with certain
articles we required, or that they had re-
ceived fair wear. We took the oath first, and
mentioned the articles afterwards. The re-
sult was something like this: “I swear, etc.,
etc. —so help me God. One pair of under-
pants.” If you laughed you were court-
martialled, and, I think, shot.
Collarenebri (N.S.W.) was lately without
a doctor, and as the nearest red lamp was at
Walgett, 60 miles away if you could fly, and
twice as far if you had to wade through the
flood waters, the time was obviously oppor-
tune for the meningitis scourge to fall on tin 1
little township. In one case a man with his
wife, an apparently healthy baby, and two
other children who were sick, started out for
help. The stricken family battled over the
most wretched sort of country. At every
other step there was a bog to be floundered
through or a flooded creek to be. crossed
somehow, and at one place they had to take
to a boat. Towards the end of the heart-
breaking journey the baby sickened, and by
the time Walgett was reached "meningitis
had scored another one. And what does the
State give the pioneers of the Outback as
compensation for. enduring such horrors? It
is a serious question which will have to be
answered before we can decently ask the
returned soldier, who deserves the best we
can give, to go where such experiences await
him.
“Trallwm”: Some day some patriotic
P.M. will fine the Defence Department £5
for being a hindrance to recruiting. This
is one of its recent performances. A Bush
Billjim drifted into Dandenong from the
thrasher on which he was working and
enlisted. The local recruiter told him to
report at Sturt-street on February 17.
By February 16 he reached Melbourne and
OBVIOUS.
H E: “That Mr. Smith, whom you have been
hanging about so much, with is a mar-
ried man.”
SHE: “Oh, I knew that!”
HE: “Oh, did you?”
SHE: “Of course, I did—by the way he
listened.”
the end of his cash, so he went to Sturt-
street, told his story and asked to start sol-
diering at once. But that was too irregular
a thing altogether. Bill was told to “dodge
about till to-morrow.” Bill had been imbib-
ing a bit and felt the craving for a “bender”
coining over him. He tried hard to persuade
the authorities to take him on at once ; but
Brass Hat was obdurate —the whole military
organisation would crash about his ears if
a Billjim summoned for the 17th of a month
went into camp on the 16th, no matter how
stony he might be. Six days later Bill
turned up at a west-suburban court as a
violent “D. and I).” “He says he’s a sol-
dier !” said the prosecuting sub-inspector, as
Bill paraded in a suit of dingy thrasher
“blues.” “That’s very serious,” said the
shocked P.M.—“a deserter!” Then a kindly
constable told Bill’s story for him, the P.M.
ordered an immediate verification of it by
’phone to Sturt-street, and 10 seconds later
Bill was on his way to make his overdue
report with everybody’s best wishes. As for
Brass Hat, he probably got promotion for
sticking to red-tape.
* * * *
Melbourne Town Hall recruiting depot, past
which the pathetic Win-the-War procession
recently trailed, is proclaimed to be one ol
the dirtiest and worst-ventilated places in
the city; yet Gaud Mayor Hennessy, to
' whom the desperate State recruiting people
recently appealed, refuses to allow them to
spend £2OO of their own money in relaying
the floor and improving the ventilation.
Hennessy, whose mayoress has a gilded
saloon upstairs to drink tea in. thinks it
isn’t a fair thing to spend people’s money
in making the place fit to work and wait
in. All he will consent to is the installa-
tion of a forced-air plant—again at the
committee’s expense. Some person with
I.WAV. ideas has actually suggested that
the depot be transferred from the present
evil-smelling location to the rooms used
by the Hennessy dame’s Patriotic Leaguers.
The nuisance inspector will probably be de-
tailed to look after him. Or maybe the offi-
cial whose job it is to deal with unnecessary
and offensive dogs.
“Sixteen” : He ordered a shilling’s worth
of steak and smoked his cigarette while the
butcher sharpened up. “Sorry,” remarked
Chops, “but smoking’s prohibited in the
shop. “Oh, orright,” growled the customer,
and placed, the fag on the counter. As he
walked out with his 12-penn’orth Chops
called him. “Hi! You’ve left your cigar-
ette.” “Blime,” says the other sweetly, ”1
thought I had it under me arm.”
Those sedentary sports, the rifle dubmen,
have been trodden on again. The officer
who drew up the plan for the formation of
the proposed Australian Army Reserve 1 s
pid them in class “B” by themselves. Class
“A” is composed of soldiers only, and the.e
is a special honorary reserve into which
they may retire and so escape
contact with the buzzing “B’s.”
These “B’s” are to get neither
pay nor uniforms. The lack
of pay won’t worry them, but
the withholding of the uniform
will hurt some of them badly.
When the war was young and
the clubs were full of martial
fury and young men who
should have enlisted, they
made spasmodic attempts to get
into military fancy-dress at
their own expense, and parti-
ally succeeded. Some of them
bought a burlesque khaki at the
cut price of 255. per warrior;
•and. if tailoresses were sweated
to do it, the suits at least saved
the marksmen’s good clobber
when they wriggled on the
range or' toiled in the garden.
Prahran Council is courting
the loud laugh of derision. It
is anxious in its patriotic zeal
to re-name a thoroughfare in
Windsor. At present it is
Han o v e r-street, and after
Heaven knows how much cogi-
tation, it is inclined to re-
christen it Mcllwrick, the cog-
nomen of a member of its
august body. But residents of
the locality, formally protesting
against the proposed change,
lodged a petition, urging that
something easier to spell would
be more acceptable. Having
honored its Mcllwrick, Prahran
might carry the good work
overseas. What’s wrong with
suggesting to the British
Government that the name of George Reid’s
constituency should be altered from Han-
over to Reid Square? Many people might
object that he never was; but that wouldn’t
matter.
* * * *
The stress and strain of being concerned
in the greatest war in history hasn’t dislo-
cated William Verity, aged 47, from his
usual habits. Mr. Verity is a Port Mel-
bourne identity of whom it isn’t too proud,
and his claim to publicity consists in the
fact that he has just faced the beaks for the
127th time, on the usual charges of drunk,
language and resisting. The usual penalties
of £2, £lO and £2 will not in the least deter
Mr. Verity from duly appearing for the 128th
time, but the Law has fallen into just as
foolish a habit as Mr. Verity, and nothing
else will happen. Yet, for a change, couldn’t
he be brought under the War Precautions
Act, or be made a recruiting-sergeant? He
and. his convictions would make a complete
win j the-war procession.
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER FACES.
HE: “You don’t mind getting sun-burned.”
S HE: “I adore it.”
H E: "Then why do you paint and powder
so much when you go to town?”
S HE: “Oh, that’s to hide it.”
WORRIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hate that Jimmy ileatherbee;
He worries and he wearies me.
He wearies me, he is so trim, so natty and so slick
and slim, lie thinks I ought to marry him.
The Crawford man 1 just despise.
I loathe him more the more he tries.
He’s handsome and a little grey, and plagues me
almost every day in his green car to ride away.
Will Dunstan is a nuisance too.
lie thinks my eyes a lovtly blue.
He thinks my figure fine and strong. In me per-
fections simply throng. He tells me so the
whole day long.
Is there a girl, 1 wonder, who
Dislikes three fellows as I do?
They’re just an everlasting post. ’Tween coming
and departing guest I never get a moment’s
rest.
But more than all the other three
That Billy Morgu n worries me.
He’s twenty-five, and rather tall. He doesn’t write,
he doesn’t call. He doesn't bother me at all!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


“It is ill arguing with a hungry man,” says the
old proverb. But it is worse playing tricks with a
6ick one. When the doctor orders brandy he means
real good stuff —the best.” Give the patient
Martell’s, and both he and his doctor will be
satisfied. Being rich in the higher ethers it is
unequalled in case of sickness.
Besides, it is perfect for social purposes.
MARTELL’S BRANDY
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [3
fsd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fs
TO
n.M. THE KING,
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/-* PER BOTTLE,
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
df
SCHWEPPES
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Made exclusively from Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice.
Breathes there a man who never yet has heard
The Name of Schweppes? The notion is absurd!
By Land or Sea —in North, South East, or West —-
Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial is a Household Word.
Omar, thou shouldst be living in these times,
Schweppes’ Rubaiyat to sing in rosy rhymes;
For lo ! Thy purple vintage pales before
The golden splendor of Montserrat’s Limes!
SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL COMPETI-
TION PRIZE, Omar-Khayyam, 1910.
Obtainable at all Leading
Storekeepers.
r <?'
m
m.
m
m
m
11
ssi:
m
: !cwm
im i-
:W Is
Schweppes
“Aitchbee”: After all the other liars had
blown themselves out my cobber told the
nursing sister how he felt when a bomb
lobbed close handy and he sat petrified wait-
ing for the explosion. “My ghost,” he says,
’’all I could think of was how 7 I wished I
had a packet of sandwiches, for I knew if
she went pop I w r as going up for a blank —-
beg pardon—going up for er couple er days.”
Anyway, there is one thing the State can
do in N. S. Wales without losing money—
nun a pig business as a side-line to the gaols.
The statement of accounts incidental to the
various gaol piggeries covering the year 1910
shows a balance to credit of £S9S. The year
started with 62 pigs on hand, worth £9B.
nnd finished with 171 worth £461. Mean-
time the sale of 122 animals had yielded
£-41. As all this seems to have been
achieved on an expenditure of £5 2s. 6d.
for pollard, it looks as if the gintleman wid
n grunt is a useful institution in the vicinity
of the penitentiary, and suggests that the
scheme of losing thousands a month on
"providing the people with cheap fish” might
have been less disastrous to the public pocket
if someone had thought of cheap bacon.
* <■ * »
“F.N.T.”: Every year Melbourne’s
Seventh Day Adventists, with a gentle,
religious effrontery which passeth under-
standing, get out their tents and choose a
likely suburb,. where they camp for a week
or two on tin* handiest vacant block, in an
atmosphere of prayer, food, bell-ringing, old
newspapers and constant psalming. Usually
a fairly new suburb is chosen, Malvern had
them some years ago, to its amazed annoy-
ance ; this year the congregation, with per-
haps 100 tents, is camped on Elsternwick
Dark, in tin* heart of the lately-assembled
village of El wood, where the tidal canal is.
Nobody seems to know exactly why it is that
the Adventists are allowed to make this use
of public property; hut it is a serious matter
to the Elwoodsman. wakened at dawn by
the big bell and getting a pain in his lan-
guage through cursing the official who allows
the outbreak.
* * * *
Whatever the loud stay-at-homes may say,-
the men who have been there have no doubt
about the need of more Australians in the
trenches. At his public welcome in Mel-
bourne last w 7 eek, Budden, who has done such
splendid work as Commissioner of the Com-
“ALL HEN ARE LIARS,” SAID THE
HORSE.
BEERY O NE: “Fer Gor’sake, Mister, gi’ me
eighteenpence fer a feed fer me ’orse!”
forts Fund, burst into passionate speech
about the slowness of recruiting. “Good
God! Can’t you realise what it means to
Belgian men to see what has happened to
their women? This is what will happen
here if we do not win the war! What's
wrong here?” He added presently that
Pearce should not have put the conscription
question to the country. (Applause.)
Pathetic Pearce, who was present on the
platform, publicly thanked the Comforter
for the rebuke —or at least he joined the
Gaud Mayor in proposing a vote of thinks.
UNPROFESSTONAL CONDUCT.
SELF-CONSCIOUS DRAMATIC CRITIC (to his 100-appreciative wife): “Try and not laugh
so boisterously, dear. Ere been writing that comedian down for months!”
“Try Fluke” : The Pitcairn Islanders, the
mixed-breed descendants of the Bounty
mutineers, lately finished a shipbuilding job
that had occupied their time for pretty well
12 months and 15 of them set out on a trial
cruise in their handiwork. The hooker is a
schooner, 44ft. by 15ft., built of local tira-
hers and finished with
any old stuff the build-
ers could beg or bor-
row fr o m passing
ships. On January 15
the crew set sail for
the Gambier Islands
and Tahiti, a voyage
of more than a thou-
sand miles. There
wasn’t a sextant or a
chronometer aboard,
and, anyhow, no one
knew li o w to use
either. There wasn’t
even a chart; in fact,
the sole navigating in-
strument was a boat
compass. But no one
worried. The Chris-
tians and McCoys and
their hapu said that if
they didn’t strike
Tahiti they’d pull up
somewhere else. They'
had plenty of cocoa-
nuts and dried bana-
nas and pork; what
more did any sailor-
man need? They
haven't been heard
from since, hut there’s
no doubt they’ll smell
their way safely
through daisy-chains
of reefs that would
give the jumps to the
swellest brass-bound
navigator with half a
dozen diamond-studded
chronometers to help him along.
**. % * *
“Karee” sends a war vignette :
A village in the first line—or what was once a
village. In front of the remains of the church,
now a dressing station, a picket stands guard over
three shapes hi blankets, ready for burial. Their
wounds were ghastly and the blue blankets are
soaked with blood. While the-padre reads the ser-
vice the Bodies resume the shelling of the place.
The padre hurries through. The corpses are lowered.
All is over. As the mates of the buried men are
about to make back to the trenches the doctor asks
them inside, as the road is being shelled heavily.
He sizes up the situation. The mates are taking
it badly. A piano lies forgotten in a corner. The
doc. points to it. “Any of you boys play?” One
gloomily strums a funeral march. “Chuck it! Not
that! Give us something to smile at!” And the
pianist tackles old pre-war waltzes, tangoes and
trots. One, two, three voices take up the-tunes. The
reaction swings along till they dance. The revel
lasts half an hour; then the doc. waves them back
to their trenches a laughing lot. Yes, this fighting
isn’t all done with the bayonet.
* * * *
“Coot”: One shire council in Victoria is
in deadly earnest in its endeavor to eradi-
cate weed pests from within its boundaries.
Colac is infested with the ragwort, which
is liable to ■ become almost as serious an
infliction as St. John’s wort. Instead of
telling their woes to the Minister of Lands
and. applying for a money grant to pay
somebody else to do tin* cleaning up, the
Council instituted a competition amongst
the children, offering a prize to the school
which collected the most roots, plus a bonus
of sixpence a hundred. The youngsters
plunged in enthusiastically, and root hunt-
ing was the only game for a month. Gelli-
brand School won first prize with 405,527 ;
Weeaproinah was second with 284,941, and
Barrainunga third with 233,050. Altogether
1.407,443 roots were collected by the chil-
dren, for which they pocketed £367 of tin*
council’s money. Private landowners joined
in, and altogether 2,187,203 curses were
accounted for. The Council also spent £143
for labor in tackling the weed on Crowp
lands. Now it reckons the Department
should shell out a donation, particularly as
it is the Crown lands that serve as a nursery
for the pests. If the Department doesn’t do
the fair thing it’ll be a very mean-looking
animal.
* -* * *
“P.11.W.” : When ordered to get busy for
a strafing expedition against troublesome
Arabs, one of our hard-doers, after grumbling
all night, burst forth : “This blanky game is
no good to me ! I enlisted to fight Germans,
not blanky Arabs. Why, a man might shoot
half a dozen of the blighters and not find a
tray on the lot.”
While the world was still speculating
whether President Wilson would write
another Note or button-up his fountain-pen,
German wireless stations throughout the
U.S.A. were asking all whom it might con-
cern : “Do you want stores?” The innocent-
sounding query may, or may not, have been
a warning in code to captains of interned
German ships to look out for dirty weather,
hut it seems fairly certain now that the local
Hun knew all about the diplomatic break
long before it was announced officially. At
Honolulu Fritz evidenced his fore-knowledge
of the approaching storm by jumping off the
mark and playing the deuce with the engines
and gear of every German ship interned
there. Among them, by the way, was the
Elsass—the Black German that nearly
strafed itself by tumbling over the Woolloo-
mooloo baths in its hurry to gCt out of Syd-
ney Harbor when the first yelp of the War
Hound came this way.
“St. John’s Wort”: Talking of big
shouts “D.0.C.” thinks Dr. J. G. Beaney’s
£6O worth of “bubbly” a record. But I
saw the late Zeh Lane pay £lOO for 80
bottles of fizz, misnamed champagne, one
day near Menzies (W.A.), when he put up
£lO6O deposit on a claim sold subsequently
in London for £50,000. This was after
Lane and Barney Barnato had floated the
Great Boulder in London. Everybody within
coo-ee attended; that is to say, 25 or 30
men gifted with excellent thirsts and sociable
dispositions. Even Zeb’s big buck camel
Abdul swigged a couple of quarts.
LUCKIER THAN USUAL.
WIFEY: “Oh, George, yon beast, you went
to sleep ten minutes after I started
talking!”
HUBBY: “Did I, love? It usually takes me
half an hour.”
“Yarra Ben”: In addition to secretaries
why aren’t our politicians provided with
press-agents? Alec Peacock had to rely
on his laugh to gain him recognition the
other day when he arrived in Wonthaggi on
the State’s business. Nobody had been sent
to meet him at the railway-station, and he
wandered about the mining township alone,
unfriended, melancholy. Happening to run
across the Mayor in the principal street he
laughed. Then and then only was the pre-
sence of Victoria's Premier made known.
A publicity agent would have arranged for
the limelight from the great man’s entrance;
and the miners might have entertained him
with another strike. As it was, if Alec’s
cachinnatory apparatus had not been in good
working order he might have had to go back
to Melbourne without transacting the busi-
ness he went on. It is asking too much of
any celebrity to keep on laughing himself
into notice.
THE WOMAN’S VOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some day a man will hit the floor, a man of barrel
girth,
Whose voice starts down about his boots and rolls
in gen’rous mirth,
And fills a hall with waves of sound and flood the
open ears, .
A jocund being broad and large, a Prince of Pioneers.
The woman world has waited long, is waiting still
for him ;
He'll have a thatch of bristled hair and may be
labelled Jim,
Or Jack, or Joe, or Sam, or Bill, or Mick, or Pat
or Dan ;
The chap they want is sure to wear the ticket of a
Man.
He’ll take the floor, and they will fill the house from
stage to door,
To hear the man who’s out to do what none has done
before.
This Bill (or Jim) will put the case as man puts
case to man,
lle'll give them sane and sober speech, in sentences
which scan—■
Not fancy talk, wrapped up in grins, to tickle
tender ears
'Will be the utterance of him, this Prince of Pioneers.
For he will noc be one among the voter-chasers dense,
Who still regard the woman as a creature lacking
sense.
lie’ll talk to her as I to you, and she will under-
stand ;
For woman knows where woman is, and just where
women stand.
In politics she’s vote for vote with us who wear the
trews;
To tell her she’s as good as we is not to give her
news.
She knows all this and much beside which was not
learned in school;
But what she doesn't know is why men treat her as
a fool,
And talk in tinted semi-tones in fear the tongue
will slip,
When they should pull the human plug and let the
language rip.
Some day the chap will come to hand who’ll deal
with women so,
And you may bet your stack on him to get just
where he’d go.
For this is woman’s day and time as I'll remember
when
I’m out to get the votes of those Clod made to
mother men..
N.S.W.
M. BAKER.


AS IT WAS LAST WEEK.
BILLO HUGHES: “Put the boot into him, blokes! Kick the Constitution out of him!
[And now kittle Australia is expected to be grateful to Billo and his friends and put them in a position to do the same thing agai..]


THE POLITICAL PLAGUE.
YOUNG AUS.: “Bring out your ‘dead’! Bring out your ‘dead’!”


“Definiteness—a characteristic of successful people”
—and we might add, whiskies. It is the definite dis-
tinctiveness of the flavor of Thorne's Whisky that is
responsible for much of its success.
Be definite when ordering.
Say THORNE’S —and see that you GET IT.
THORNE'S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.’’
In the black square bottle and of superb quality. [3
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since issw. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
&HS]
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee,
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A,Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
*r
©
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS &
WIiITTY
MAKERS
•V is?
Q
YINO
mSm
m
'y^Si?'!££*;«'
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts S Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
. “M. 8.”: This ought to be a political
record. In the first battle from which Labor
returned in force to the Parliament of West-
ralia, Bob Hastie (afterwards Minister for
Justice in the first Labor Government of the
State) started in a field of seven and romped
home, leaving the others so far out of the
count that each of them forfeited his deposit.
But the pace was too hot to last. Bob was
blown out of the game early with no more
than he had put into it—which was mighty
little—and died liard-up.
Melbourne paper:—
This was Mr. Hughes’s third meeting in two
days, and he spoke with remarkable fluency and
force for well over an hour. As an orator the
Prime Minister is a wonder.
True —wonders. never cease.
Giving up his job at the Vic. State coal
mine, Wonthaggi, Sergeant L. M. Kilroy
went away with reinforcements, and is now
driving into the Kaiser’s formations. Isabelle
Frances, his wife, is doing her bit at home.
To help another local resident enlist she
volunteered to look after his horse for him,
and by the time he was in France she was
his complete locum tenons, driving sheep and
cattle from saleyards and farms to the
slaughter-yards, her orbit being bounded by
Almurta, Kernot, Bass, Korumburra, and
Ivongwak. She comes of a Heathcote farm-
ing family, and has knitted 17 pairs of socks
while on horseback. She does all the sewing
for herself and her daughter of seven, runs
a three-stall stable and a half-acre garden,
and keeps house in her dolichos-covered cot-
tage with the best of them. At the last
Korumburra Show she rode her own horses,
taking two first and two third prizes.
John Burnett Box retired from the
County Court bench at Melbourne a few
days ago. When at the Bar “Jack” Box
was one of the most popular about
the courts. Admitted in England, he began
practice in Victoria in 1866, and at once
took up a good position. He was always
to the fore in Common Law cases till 1905,
when he was made a County Court Judge.
Many thought that he would have been given
a seat in the Supreme Court, if it were only
as a reward for his valuable “Digest of
Cases” decided by the Victorian courts. He
compiled that useful and well-known volume
with George Briscoe Iverferd (now dead),
and Kerferd got a Supreme Court Judge-
ship. But, then, Kerferd was Attorney-
General. Middle-aged and elderly Victorians
will remember Justice Fellows, lawyer and
politician. Well, old Fellows thought so
much of young Box that he made him one
of the executors of his will- —-and the estate
was a big one. When the Judge bade fare-
well to the County Court at Melbourne a
few days ago, the Bar mustered strong to
say good-bye, and E. F. Mitchell, K.C., made
a nice little speech; and when the old wig
was leaving the Bench, the crowd rose and,
throwing tradition out of the window, posi-
tively cheered.
When the last mail left Private J. Cheff-
ers,. of Moonee Ponds (Vic.), was in a
-British hospital with a bullet in his heart.
“By all the rules,”
he writes, “I should
have dropped dead.
I went down, and
could feel myself
going nu m b all
over the body. I
lay there just wait-
ing for the end to
come, and then all
of a sudden the
feeling left me”—
and it hasn’t come
back. There is to
be an operation, of
course.
CAPTAIN “JOE”
STENHOUSE, of
Sliaddeton's South
Pole Expedition ,
Captain of the
Endeavor.
Died while in charge of a war hospital
in Galicia, Dr. Laura Forster, a daughter
of William Forster, one-time Premier of
N. S. Wales and afterwards Agent-General.
The lady’s grandfather was Dr. Forster, of
the 50tli Regiment. Her grandmother was
a daughter of early explorer Gregory
Blaxland.
William Humble, one of the founders of
the Vulcan Foundry, Geelong (Vic.), passed
into the shadows last week, aged 82. lie
left Yorkshire in ’5B, put in a couple of
years in Melbourne and then made off to
Geelong in ’6l. A strong Methody, he was
most things a live man could be in Geelong,
and helped to start the Gordon Technical
College.
E. ,S. Carr, who was a - straight-out advo-
cate of conscription at a time when Hughes
was spoiling its chances, was one of the
first Laborites to be banned by the execu-
tive. The selection for his electorate, the
Macquarie, falls to Sam Nicholls. who was
secretary of the Portland cement workers
and retained the job of secretary and organ-
iser when they became a branch of the Rail-
way Work e r s’
Union —now itself
a branch of the
A.W.U. He is a
bluff, uninspired
speaker who will
make a solid ma-
chine representa-
tive. Although has,
personal popularity
may get Can-
many votes, Mac-
quarie is now a
w e 11-drilled i n-
dustrial centre
with a solid Labor
army ; so Carr will
probably have to
shunt back to his
newspaper wor k.
He was running an
organ in Orange
when politics called
him.
W. B.PROPSTING,
M.L.C., Attorney-
General of
Tasmania.
“Chink”: Concerning ancient aldermen.
I claim the Australian record for Thomas
Casey, who entered the Maryborough (Vic.)
Borough Council 56 years ago and is still
there. A tough, genial son of Canada,
he is also the oldest fireman in the world,
having been captain of the Maryborough
brigade since ’6l. He ambles along to meet-
ings and sits with bowed head while his men
bawl the chorus of “The Old Pine Tree,” a
song he taught their fathers.
Mentioned in dispatches by General
Townshend is another Bulletin contribu-
tor, Capt. T. W. White, of the Australian
Flying Corps, “for conspicuous services ren-
dered during the advance of General Nixon’s
force” on Bagdad. When a ’plane carrying
General Kimball as passenger broke down far
from home among hostile Arabs. Capt. White
went to the rescue and succeeded in saving
the General and pilot. Townshend and
White have both been captured by Abdul
since, and are being well treated in Turkey.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Good rest to
Mrs. Virginia Mary Fitz-Simons, widow of
Arthur Frederick Fitz-Simons, major of the
Permanent Forces of N. S. Wales! I knew
the lieutenant, a tall, thin man, away
back in 1857. He was then in the 40th
regiment (British), quartered in old iron
barracks in Spencer-street, Melbourne. He
went with the regiment to Maoriland in the
war of 1860-1. When that was ended he
left the service by sale of his commission,
and in 1871, when James Martin established
his “standing army” in N. S. Wales, got
a commission and was in command of the
corps when he dropped dead on the parade-
ground of Victoria Barracks. It was Henry
Parkes who later on disbanded the “painted
soldiers,” as he called them.
Tasmania’s newest inspector of mines,
Vandean, got the job without knowing it.
He was away on King Island managing the
local scheelite mine, and his wife put in an
application and landed the billet for him.
lie is to take the place on the West Coast
of Con Curtain, who has been there ever
since the discovery of Mt. Lyell, and is
now going to Launceston to replace
Inspector Griffin, retiring.
“Trot” : No ; there was nothing light and
airy about old Geordie McLean (B.
22/2/’l7), who gave up his life-job in M.L.
Leg. Council lately to become a harpist.
Twenty years or so ago, when Seddon was
doing things, Geordie was a very angry man
with a lot of white whiskers and a pair of
crutches, who used to noisily make his way
into the Council, drop his implements on
the floor with a clatter and get ready to
make uncomplimentary remarks. W. C.
Walker, Minister for Education, was leader
of the Council in those days, and his soft
manner seemed to stir old Geordie to fury.
Most of his speeches were “Bah-ah-ah-ah !”
Nearly all the old-timers who sat with him
will have been helping Geordie to disembark
on yonder shore. Bolt, Bonar, Grace,
Holmes, Barnicoat, Miller, Oliver, Whit-
more, Richardson, Shrimski. Swanson —all
and more have gone. Of the lifers in the
Council only three are now left —Bowen,
who is 86, Ormond 84, and Johnston, the
Speaker, a youth of 71.
Major Bichard John Dyer is a D.S.O.
and a Chevalier of France now. Having
been trained in Mort’s Dock (Sydney) h;
naturally blew into the Field Engineers,
and went to Gallipoli as a second lieuten-
ant. His majority on his 22nd birthday, a
good word in lan Hamilton’s despatches, the
French Legion of Honor, and the D.S.O.
are the proofs that Mort’s Dock has no
reason to be ashamed of its product.
Lieut. Edward Beynolds, now in France,
is announced as the Liberal candidate for
Essendon (Vic. Assembly) in opposition to
lawyer Maurice Blackburn, who was for-
merly a red-flagger and since the outbreak of
war has been heard to make tolerant re-
marks about an ensign with some black in
it. Lieut. Reynolds is a very young man,
but is growing older every day. Moreover,
he doesn’t seem to have any scruples what-
ever about fighting, so he may be able to
drag his heavy weight of Liberal principles
to the post a nose or so iri front of
Blackburn. Reynolds has already twice put
up his head to be hit —in Maribyrnong
(Reps.) and Essendon (Assembly). He is a
lawyer, too, and the. son of lawyer Tom
Reynolds, a pillar of Coburg, which is in
the Essendon neighborhood.
Lighthouse-keeper Frederick Silva is retir-
ing from the romantic service after 40
years spent on the highest point of Sydney
heads. He was practically born in the
Macquarie Lighthouse, where his father
had charge for 27 years before him. Young
Silva started to help dad when he was a
boy of 16, and he is going inland for a
change when he has got just comfortably
past middle-age.
“Veritas”: In his early days at the Bar
the recently-deceased C. E. Pilcher, K.C., of
N. S. Wales, had indomitable cheek. In the
early ’7o's he had a case in a New England
town before District Court Judge Meymott,
and the verdict was against him. It was the
final cause on the list, and the Judge
came- off the bench to disrobe. Pilcher
walked up to him and said “Judge, you
were wrong in that last case.” Meymott
replied: “Pooh, pooh ! When I was a boy I
often thought the Judges were wrong, but l
never had the impudence to tell them so!”
Something similar occurred to the late Justice
Windeyer, when he was a youth at the Bar.
It was Chief Justice Alfred Stephen, who
replied icily in that case: “Mr. Windeyer,
you have all your father’s impudence; I
regret that I do not observe also his
talents!”
PROF. HERBERT HEATON, M.A., Tas-
manian University Lecturer in History
and Economics, who has accepted a
chair in the Adelaide University.
Though he isn’t the youngest Billjim, Pri-
vate K. N. McNamee is probably the infant
among the holders of the Military Medal.
He was born in 1899, and enlisted in 1914.
The little bit that won him the medal and
the congratulations of Major-General Cox
was performed at Mouquet Farm, where he
showed gallantry as a runner between August
2G and 29, 1916. He is a Ballarat lad, and
used to be in the office of the Sporting
World.
“Old Bill” Hazelhurst, a veteran Forbes
and Parkes (N.S.W.) mining identity, has
passed out suddenly on the mail train while
journeying home from Melbourne. He had
reached the 78th milestone of an interesting
career. In 1890 a store at Parkes refused
him credit for a few shillings’ worth of
goods. A week later he was worth £BO.OOO.
He “struck it” by following a quartz leader
in the bottom of an alluvial claim, and it
developed into a rich reef. Instead of being
content Bill went on speculating and pro-
specting, lost the whole of his punch and
ended up with next to nothing.
RIPPERTY! KYE! AHOO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a young woman, as I've heard tell
(Ripperty! Kyel Ahoo!),
Lived near the sea in a nice little hell
That she made for herself and her husband as well;
But that’s how a good many married folk dwell —
Ripperty ! Kye ! Ahoo !
She kept a big mongrel that murdered his fowls
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!)
And kept him awake with his bark’s and his growls—
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!)
She also had cats that assisted with yowls.
She gave him old dishcloths and nightgowns for
tow’ls,
And called in the neighbors to witness his growls—
Ripperty 1 Kye! Ahoo!
You’d think ’twas the limit, but she didn’t —quite
(Ripperty ! Kye! Ahoo) ;
lie had to sleep out in the fowlhouse at night
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahool),
And make his own breakfast before it was light;
Then go to his work and keep out of sight
When he came home to dinner —and that wasn't
right.
Singing: Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!
She’d find him and chase him with potstick and fist
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!);
He’d an arm like a navvy, and also a wrist
(Ripperty ! Kye ! Ahoo !).
Why didn't he give her a jolt or a twist?
Then because she so crowed for the hiding she missed,
She’d shriek: “You great coward! Why don’t you
enlist ?”
Ripperty ! Kye ! Ahoo !
Slic’d invite all her relatives down for the day
(Ripperty ! Kye ! Ahoo !),
And also invite his relations to stay
(Ripperty ! Kye ! Ahoo !).
lie found his own worst, as is often the way
(They told her his father was locked up one day) ;
Ilis red beard went white and his brown hair went
grey.
( Sadly :) Rip-per-ty 1 Kye! A-hoo !
Her parents were German, as he was aware.
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo)
He said to himself: “I had better be there !”- i
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!)
He went to the Depot and made himself bare,
And was straightway accepted, and passed then and
there.
He clapped his great wings, and he crowed (so they
swear) ;
Ripperty! Kye!!! A-hoo!!!!
He came home for “final” and filled up with rum.
(Ripperty! Kye! A-hie-hoo!)
She said, when she saw him: “I thought you would
come!”
(Ripperty ! Kye! Ahoo !)
“You’d best make ver will, and make over the homo,
And arrange the allowance, and don’t look so glum!”
11c did as she told him, and went away, dumb —
Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo! ■’
lie went to the Front, and he fought for the French.
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!)
lie went for the Germans and cleared out a trench
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!);
They tumbled like drunken men over a bench,
He finished them off with a jab and a wrench;
’Twas said that he yelled, in the mix-up and
stench:
“Ripperty! Kye! A-lioo!”
He came back at last with ideas that were new.
( R ippertv ! Kye ! Ahoo !)
lie went for the mongrel and ran him right through—-
Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo !
He potted three cats on the ridge-capping, too;
North, southward and eastward the relatives flew.
Then he said: “Now, old woman, I’m coming for
you 1 /'
Ripi'ekty ! Kye ! Anoo!
Three times round the house and the fowlyard she
fled—-
(Ripperty ! Kye ! Ahoo !)
Three inches in front of his bayonet red —
(Ripperty ! Kye ! Ahoo !)
lie yelled and she shrieked fit to shriek off her head —-
lie fired at the house and the fowlhouse and shed,
Till she fell on the dungheap quite three-quarters
dead.
(Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!)
Now, there’s a young woman, as I’ve heard tell
■(Sing gently: Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!),
Lives near the sea in a nice little shell
(Sing softly: Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo!)
That is built of brick, wood and red tiles from
Rozelle;
She’s fond of her husband, and he’s doing well—
And that’s how a good many married folk dwell.
(Sing exultantly: Ripperty! Kye! Ahoo.)
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


PERFECTION IN THE ART OF CIGARETTE-MAKING.
C FABRiaUE DE —J»
CigarettesEgyptiennes
mw
BoutonX Rouge
FA&niaut w* o w
/AASPERO FRERES L t » DAH»i.iuHHANurACTu*t
aiu
Made in Cairo under ideal
conditions from tbe Finest
Selected Tobacco.
Maspero Freres
BOUTON ROUGE
Egyptian Cigarettes
Obtainable from all Hig'h-
class Tobacconists throughout
Australia.
sum
Fabriglue de —j»
CigarettesEgyptiennes
EROFRERES
r
jflk
BoutonXßouge
Fa an iq ok pa« O w
/AASPER.O FRERES L t P dans ulun H _ AHor*cro«e
3
vj 1 CL-msu i 1 r^z
A LUXURY to the MAN o f TASTE


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue. l]
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ADAMAX ROOFING IS SPARK-PROOF AND ECONOMICAL!
acid fumes do not damage*' therefore AdamaxVo^flng'^is^more or . pinhole - Sulphuric
Colliery, Mining or Smelting buildings than lron for Roofs on
ADAMAX ROOFING costs less to buv than Galvanized Iron nnd oaroc ,v* u . , .
ME ‘7£ !Z%&‘c7yToZ°Z «**■ r '“ n,EE \S
WI . L - UAIVI ADAMS & CO. LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane. Perth & Adelaide.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL. SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & Z T NO DROSSES,
etc.
. All enquiries to be Addressed to the Secretory#
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Standard Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maorilaufi) :---
Written To Re- lle-
■Uee., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1904. . £12,715 10 p.c.- £7,500 £5,215 £72,660
1905.. 12,953 10 „„ 7,500 5,453 78,119
1906.. 11,570 10 ~ ~ 7,500 4,070 82,189
1907.. 12,097 10 „„ 7,600.- 5R97 87,386
1908.. 8,180 10 „„ 7,500 080 88,066
1909.. 12,573 10 ~ .. 7,500 5,073 93,139
1910.. 20,610 111,,,, 8,312 12,298 105,437
1911.. 18,512 ll| „„ 8,500 10,012 115,449
1912.. 19,801 12 ~ „ 9,000 10,801 126,2'50
1913.. 23,176 13 „„ 9,750 13,426 139,676
1914.. 18,925 13 „„ 9,750 £5OO 8,675 148,351
1915.. 34,508 13J ~,,10,000 2634 21,874 170,225
1916.. 5,026 8J „ „ 6,250 1,776 172,001
Well, if there were no losses there would be
no insurance; and if now and then this
characteristically-solid Dunedin co. didn’t
have a year like it had in 1916, it couldn’t
expect to have a year like it had in 1915.
Dunedin has always had salt in its whiskers,
and it seems the most natural thing in the
world that its home insurance office should go
in largely for marine underwriting; and
one way and another 1916 was a very bad
year for shipping, (iiiito apart from the
attentions it got from submarines. The
Rangatira, Tongariro. Ashburton, Achilles,
Indian Monarch, Clan McTavish and
Marere —these are only a few of the vessels
in the Maoriland trade that came to grief
during the year. No doubt that accounts
for the heavy losses which the next com-
parison shows: —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.c*
1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53.8 „ 27.6,,
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33.2 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9 ~ 32.4 ~
1911.. 80,767 42,021 28,526 52.0 „ 35.3 „
1912.. 90,441 47,792 31,476 52.8 ~ • 34.8 ~
1913.. 100,663 50,777 36,123 50.4 „ 35.8 „
1914.. 112,056 62,928 39,283 56.1 ~ 34.9 ~
1915.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 „ 34.3 „
1916.. 128,581 77,661 50,175 68.2 „ 39.0 „
Add to the excessive loss rate an increase
in taxes (£6935 as against £2154 in 1914)
and other outgoings, and the co. shows an
underwriting loss for the year of 7 p.c.
However, the co. can quite easily stand
it; indeed, even though it pays a dividend
(reduced to S| p.c.) it is still stronger
than it was a year ago. That means, of
course, that the verra cautious directors
didn’t divide anything like the amount
earned apart from the underwriting busi-
ness. So splendid have been the additions
to funds in the good years and so profitably
have they been invested that interest earn-
ings amounted to £11,025, while, as the
first table shows, the reduced dividend
absorbed only £6250. The funds (paid
capital and reserves) now total £247,001;
and if you assume a net income for the
current year equal to last year’s there
would be £325,000 available for losses by
Dec. 31 next —an amount equal to the
losses of the past six years. Certainly the
co. might find it inconvenient to raise all
that money so quickly, because it has
£113,535 on mortgage and £96,719 in what
are described as deoentures. But those
“debentures” are probably better than deben-
tures often are. At any rate, it is known
that the co. has about £35,000 of this money
in the M.L. War Doan, and something like
£12,000 in Australian Commonwealth and
State securities; and that accounts for
nearly half the total. Besides that it has
£55,000 in cash balances. Presumably
nobody is worrying, therefore, about whether
his policy in the Standard is all right. If
he is as sure of Heaven as he is of pay-
ment, he may safely reckon himself among
the saints already.
* * * *
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of
Tasmania (Launceston, Tasmania) :
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1903.. 8 p.c. = £3150 £2744 £26,852
1904.. 5474 8 „ „ 3150 2324 29,176
1905.. 3876 8 ~ ~ 3150 726 29,902
1906.. 3781 8 „,, 3150 631 30,533
1907.. 5697 8 „„ 3150 2547 33,080
1908.. 4968 9. ~ „ 3544 1424 34,504
1909.. 5520 10 „ „ 3937 1583 36,087
1910.. 4531 10 „ „ 3984 547 36,634
1911.. 4423 10 „„ 3937 486 '37,120
1912.. 4695 10 „ „ 3937 758 37,878
1913.. 4003 10 „„ 3937 66 37,944
1914.. 4473 10 „„ 3937 536 38,480
1915.. 3353 10 „ „ 3937 37,896
1916.. 3504 10 „„ 3937 37,463
The law of averages is only gopd when it
has a big area to operate in. Three men
leave a small township for the Front, and,
as may easily happen, all three are killed.
But from that you can’t deduce that the
death-rate at the Front is 100 p.c. This
is a small co., and one or two fires more or
less make all the difference between a good
profit and a comparatively poor one in a
year. To ascertain how the co. is really
doing you must take the average of half a-
dozen years. On that basis the profits
barely pay the present 10 p.c. dividend; for
in the past six years they have been only
£829 in excess of the dividends. This is
not attractive to people with insurance to
place, and the result is that the co.’s
premium income is actually falling off: —
Pre- Loss Expense
niiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900 .. £4785 £1774 £2143 37.1 p.c. 44.8 p.c.
1905 .. 5844 2959 2248 50.6 „ 38.4 ~
1910 .. 6220 2206 2576 35.4 „ 41.4 „
1911 .. 6135 ' 2267 2989 36.9 ~ 48.7 „
1912 . . 6359 1967 3266 30.9 „ 51.3 ~
1913 .. 7008 1461 4930 20.8 „ 70.5 „
1914 .. 6773 1491 4098 22.0 „ 60.5 „
1915 . . 6536 3292 3588 50.4 „ 54.9 „
1916 .. 6183 2430 3470 39.3 „ 56.1 „
Yet. though the public doesn’t like a co.
which does not continuously add to its
insurance fund, there is really no cause for
any anxiety on the part of policy-holders.
The co.’s funds (paid capital and reserves)
amount to £74,963 ; and that would pay 23
times more losses than the co. has made in
its worst year. Generally speaking, if a
co.’s funds are equal to three times the
average losses for a year it is thought to
be pretty strong. On its financial position,
therefore, the co. deserves far more support
from -Tasmania than it is getting. More-
over, its funds are exceptionally liquid: it
has no less than £46.980 in public securi-
ties and cash. Except for the look of the thing
there really is no reason why this co. should
increase its funds ; for they are greater now
than the business requires. It could rea-
sonaoly take five times more risks; and the
right thing for the co. to do seems to be to
look for them. Apparently that means
chancing a bit by coming across to the
mainland. And why shouldn’t it?
Amalgamated Wireless (Austral-
asia), Ltd.: —
Komi-
Written To Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’14.. 8616 24 p.c.= 5600 3000 16 16
Dec., T4..7812 5 „ „ 3500 4312 4328
June, Y 5. . 4611 7 „ „ 4900 2938 —• 1101
Dec., ’15.. 2230 Nil 2230 3331
June, ’16.. 6235 5 p.c. = 7000 1543 -1023
Dec., ’16.. 6150 Nil 1610 4540 5563
This co. is overloaded. Of its 140,000
shares no less than 90,000 were paid for
“patent rights, licenses and exclusive agen-
cies” ; and probably half of them were
issued in respect of the Telefunken wireless
system, which was acquired in the days
when Germany was our very dear friend.
After the Telefunken had been in operation
for some time the owners of the competing
Marconi system came into the fold; and
subsequently the rights to the I’oulsen sys-
tem were secured. These latter two —the
Marconi and the Poulsen —are the only two
British-owned systems in competition at the
other end of the Empire. In Australia,
however, the Gommonwealth Government is
operating one of its own ; and it is yet un-
certain how far this competition will affect
this co. The management is apparently
satisfied that its very considerable resources
are not likely to find early nrofitable employ-
ment in wireless business, and it has been
looking out for agencies. Among other
tilings it has secured the sole right to collect
commissions on the automatic relay -tele-
phone ; and the management has a scheme
on foot to set up an installation and intro-
duce an expert in the hope of getting busi-
ness from the Commonwealth Government.
The co. has also nut £3OOO into the. Kelly
Motor Co., which gives it a controlling
interest in the agency for the sale of Chevro-
let cars in N. S. Wales and Queensland.
While these side-lines are being organised
the co. has four sources of revenue: (1)
from ships’ messages, including “subsidy
ships” (the co. practically controls ail
coastal business, and is now operating on
97 vessels on subsidy) ; (2) from manufacture
and trading; (3) from an operators’ train-
ing-school; and (4) from the investment of
£29.015. This sum is out on short call.
Apart from the £90,000 in goodwill items
the co. has £87,071 of assets, including the
investments (£32,015), sundry debtors
£11,604. and installations, stock and plant,
£43,402. The future of the co. is uncertain,
largely because it is unknown how hard some
future Commonwealth Government may'bump
it; but it has energy and money, and if it
is blocked in one direction it is quite possible
that it may make good in others. But share-
holders will probably have to wait a long
while before they get a decent return on the
present capital. Meantime the investor has
written down the value -if the shares by 50
per cent.
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.) :
. To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
, £ £ £ £
June, 1911.. 6,563 15 p.c. = 4167 2,396 81,192
Premiums on new shares . . 5,282 86,474
Dec., 1911.. 7,191 I's p.c. = 4497 2,694 89,168
Premiums on new shares . . 5,282 94 450
June, 1912 6,739 15 p.c. = 4894 1,845 96,295
£66,3(0 Reserves transferred to capital 29,925
Unexplained additions to reserves . .1,377 31 302
Dec., 1912.. 7,089 10 p.c. = 6637 452 31,754
Assets written up . . 07.801 99,555
£99.000 Reserves transferred to capital
June, 1913.. 8,377 10 p.c. = 6637 1,740 1 740
& “B” “C”
Shares Shares
8 p.c. 5 3-5 p.c.
Dec., 1913 . . 10,160 9292 187 681 9 4 9 1
June, 1914 .. 9,627 9292 308 27 2’448
Dec., 1914 .. 11,111 9292 468 1351 3^799
, 7 p.c. 4 9-10 p.c.
June, loin .. 8,906 8130 551 225 4,024
Dec., 191 n.. 9,077 8130 691 256 4,280
June, 1916 .. 9.619 8130 832 657 4,937
Dec., 1916 . . 9,677 8130 972 575 5,512
Under the Gas Act every N. S. Wales co. in
tins business has to make up accounts in
a prescribed form or as nearly thereto as
possible ; but after making them it can push
them in among the cobwebs. It is under no
obligation to issue them; and outside a
couple of cos. the rank and file of share-
holders in N. S. Wales gas cos. know just as
I'ttle about their property as ever they
did. Nor does the co.’s customer know how
he is being treated. This co. is not one of
those which make public the accounts pre-'
pared in the prescribed form. Hence one
does not know how much is written off
ostensibly against depreciation; and it was
by making excessive allowances in the past
that gas profits were made to look far smaller
than they actually were. Note, for instance,
how, immediately after the Gas Act was
passed, the disclosed profits jumped in this
case—from £7089 in the latter half of 1912
to £lO,lOO in the latter half of 1913. It
looks, however, as though the co. is pre-
pared to take more liberties with the law
now that it has become familiar with it. At
any rate, the disclosed profits are strikingly
less than they were just after the Act came
into force: December. 1913, £lO,lOO,
December, 1914, £11,111; contrasted with
£9077 for June-December, 1915, and £9077
in June-December, 1910. Costs certainly
may have been on the upgrade. But so has
revenue: December, 1913, £23,594; 1914
£20,319; 1915, £27,012; 1910, £29,409.
The co. is pushing ahead with new works
to meet the industrial development of New-
castle :—•
Dec., ’l3. Dec., ’l5. Dec., ’l6.
Liabilities .. .. £11,850 £30,259 £34,066
Buildings, plant, mains. . 233,940 290,887 301,709
Stocks 9,413 10,466 11,619
Liquid assets . . . . 21,296 5,851 10,669
Meantime capital has been increased from
£240,899 to £275,317 by the calling up of
245. a share on the new “C” issue. There
are now 00,370 “A’s” paid to £2, 60,370
"B’s paid to 30s. and 28,081 “C’s” paid also
to 30s. The “A’s” and “B’s,” being old
capital, are entitled to 10 p.c. with gas at
the Newcastle standard ; the “C’s” are lim-
ited to 7 p.c. under the same conditions. At
present this part of the Gas Act has been
superseded ; but when things become normal
it is plain that there will be plenty of room
for a gradual rise in the market value of
these shares —provided, of course, some other
thing is not seized on as a pretext for again
monkeying with the standards fixed bv the
Act.
The Castlemaine Brewery, Ltd. (Fre-
mantle, W.A.) :
Nominal
Dividend Written To Re- Re-
Profits. and Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June,’l2. .£5626 lOp.c. = £3150 £BO6 £1670 £17,941
Dec., ’12.. 5420 10 ~ „ 3150 849 1421 19,362
June,’l3.. 6131*10 „ „ 3150 854 2127 21,489
Dec.,’l3.. 6224 10 ~ ~ 3150 904 2170 23 659
June,’l4.. 4954 10 ~ „ 3675 873 406 24,065
Dec.,’l4.. 5476 10 „ „ 3675 855 946 25,011
June,’ls.. 4748 7* „ „ 2756 845 1147 26,158
Dec.,’ls.. 4525 5 „ „ 1837 846 1842 28,000
June,’l6.. 3737 5 „,, 1750* 825 1162 29,162
Dec.,’l6.. 4016 5 ~ „ 1750* 826 1440 30,602
‘Exclusive of dividend tax.
The six months’ profits are better than for
the preceding half, certainly, but poorer than
for any recent corresponding term. Revenue
from trading in the latter half of 1914 was
£14,240; it has shrunk now to £11,682, with-
out any reduction in exes, worth mentioning.
Perhaps there may be an improvement
presently. Some costs will certainly be less.
But costs are now high, as a rule, because
the public has so much money in its pocket;
and that is the time when the public asks
its friend to have another. Hence when
costs are less there will probably be less
business, too. And that is apart from any
reduction there may be as the result of the
water-waggoners’ campaign. That crowd
used the war very cunningly to push in early
closing and other restrictions. At first it
looked as though there might be a revulsion
when the war was over. But it is taking a
lot longer to lick Willie than the leg-pufled
public thought it would, and the longer the
pubs are shut at six the harder it will be to
open them after that hour. And, anyhow
there isn't going to be any mafficking this
time. The struggle has made too many people
sorrowful. For one reason and another, there
will therefore probably be no revulsion. On
the contrary, in the hard, drab times that are
coming, there may be more stringent anti-
liquor laws and regulations than ever. The
breweries will still have work to do; but
the days of their gloriously easy money seem
to be over for good.
And conditions in Westralia don’t promise
to be better than the average. The gold-
fields are rapidly wilting and Westralian
agriculture has been only a very modihed
success. Moreover, the quick and great
success of the goldfields did some inci-
dental harm in giving the politicians and
other people false ideas, so that a great deal
of borrowed money has been spent very
foolishly. That waste means harder con-
ditions presently. Fortunately, so far as
this co. is concerned, it has got itself fairly
free of liabilities: to-day it owes on ail
accounts only about £14,000, and has in stock
and book debts £24,000. If there is a
storm it will therefore be far more likely to
weather it than a co. which has heavily
overloaded itself in order to acquire pubs
and other very doubtful properties. Capital
is £70,000 in £1 shares. Reserves look
very substantial; but they are branded
“Nominal” in the table because the big
composite item totalling £115,247 includes
“goodwill, water supply, etc.” as well as
properties and plant.
* * * *
From a nun on the inside:—
In the AVild Cat’s remarks upon the Sydney
Hydraulic Power Co.’s last balance-sheet this
occurs: “There has been a tremendous expansion of
building in Sydney, but the company not only got
no benefit from it, but hardly held its old connec-
tion. During the last year or so, however, there
has been a, stirring among the dry bones and the
co. has begun to fight for business. ” The explana-
tion of this will be interesting to the co.’s share-
holders.
In 1911 the majority of the then directors frater-
nised with another elevator company and exchanged
seats on their respective Boards; also the Hydraulic
Co.’s lift maintenance, lift repair and renewal work
was entrusted to the other company, which in
turn .was expected to push the interests of the
Hydraulic Co: This alliance went on during the whole
of the period of abnormal activity in the building
business in Sydney up to the early part of 1915, when
a drastic change was made in the co.’s affairs by new
diiectors taking over the conduct of its operations;
and although two years have elapsed since then,
it must be remembered that during that period
building in the city has practically been suspended
and business in lifts and lift work has suffered a
serious slump owing to the war and the increase
in prices of all materials used in buildings, etc.
During the period of “tremendous expansion
of building in Sydney’’ the expected pushing of
the co.’s business by its old-time competitor was
never discernible to the naked eye, although during
that time some valuable lifts were converted to
woik from the electric mains. As soon, however,
as Ihe Hydraulic Co. was relieved of its unnatural
and unholy alliance it began to move forward again.
Slow, perhaps, like the British “tanks,” but sure—-
helped no doubt by the honored name it bears in
Sydney for doing the “straight thing” at all
times.
* » #
North Broken Hill, Ltd., which till
recently was the N.B.H. Mining Co.,
which was in its turn a reconstruction of a
co. formed 10 years earlier:—
AVritten Re ;
1 rofits. . Dividends. Off. serves.
T £ £ £ £
;V ,ne ’ 09. • 2(,300 20 p.c.= 14,000 13,096 60,495
Dec., 09.. 31,764 20 „„ 14,000 17,550 60,709
New share premiums, £35,000. . 95,709
June, 10.. 50,120 35 p.c.= 28,000 22,783 95,046
Dec., 10.. 73,179 40 „ „ 35,000 26,328 106,897
June, 11.. 62,201 60 „ „ 52,500 12,662 103,936
r eC ” ,11' ’ 98 >' 08 70 ,» „ 61,250 12,168 129,226
•Tune, 12.. 101,663 93£ „ „ 93,750 11,910 125,229
Dec., 12.. 1,5,993 220 ~ ~220,000 17,200 64,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised
t ,M „ "’creased from £200,000 to £600.000.
June, 13.. 142,01.8 20 p.c.= 60,000 3,265 78,753
Dee., 1 .->2,506 40 ~ ~ 120,000 1,925 109,424
'I. une > ,Jf” 183,8<15 50 „ ~150,000 143,269
Dee., 14. . 56,210 Nil 199,485
n Une ’.ir'' 3 0 p.c.= 30.000 245,209
Dec., 15. . 169,201 40 ~,, 120,000 294 410
June, 16.. 142,092 40 ~,, 120,000 316,502
Dec., 16.. 171,442 40 ~,,120,000 367,944
J riE Bulletin does not know what the
tiue profit is, or, rather, what it is going to
be; nor does anybody else. On the one hand
the final settlements for the concentrates
supplied to the Associated Smelters, in which
this co. has an interest, have not been made
.Aet. lienee “the production for the half-year
is taken into the accounts at 90 p.c. of the
S I OS LH ro f° rma value, on the basis of lead
at £-0 per ton and silver at 2s. per oz.”
Some of the missing 10 p.c. may be recov-
ered ; and as lead has been hanging about in
the neighborhood of £3O, while silver is
ranly steady at 35., it looks as if there will
be a susbstantial surplus to be received from
last half’s output. As against that, how-
CAe l , there A\ r as no doubt a substantial sur-
plus from the previous six months; and.
whatever it was, it has been included in the
revenue for the past term. The figures for
the half-year therefore don’t represent the


The British Westinghouse Electric Si Mfg. Co., Ltd.
W estinghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH
ECONOMY
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 10,000 Kilowatts.
N^jjchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia :
II Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne. 11l
The Australian General Electric Company, Went-
worth Avenue, Sydney, corner Queen ft Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne, stock a special line of Type F
Form I<2o Totally Enclosed Triple Pole Oil Switches,
providing overload and no voltage release, suitable
for bolting to wall or pillar. These switches are
especially adaptable to mine service, and the above
company will be pleased to forward particulars or
quotations to all who desire information on this
subject.— Advt.
* » ♦ *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
fcrric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Win. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
There is absolutely no question about the dura-
bility and economy of Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.
Wood, if kept wet, is practically everlasting, and
there is no inner exposed metal to rust or corrode.
It works out much cheaper, too, than any other
class of pipe, so far as first cost, labor for laying
and freight charges are concerned. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited (H. 0.), 57 York-street, Sydney. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. Factories: Lane
Cove, N.S.W., Footscray, Vic., and Port Adelaide,
S.A. — Advt,
* * * •
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? T?'
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh:
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling:
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas;
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * #
The extraordinary success and«popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the.
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin, plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with, —Advt.
* * * »
IDEAS,—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained, Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Write-
ua for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s ft Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars H B
Selby ft Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney: 'and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
a£areßo«NTO
Uecr Bewtiov
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED
Insure in
Thc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
value of the half-year’s output; and to get a
view of any real worth the eye must sweep
in several terms, before the war as well as
since it started. On the other hand, the
profit hasn’t been reduced by any amount to
represent the half-year’s wear and tear and
depreciation. There are 110,750 tons less
ore in the mine than there were six months
ago: so the mine can’t be worth as much as
it was as at June 30. Yet no part of the
revenue has been set aside for the repay-
ment of capital, nor has anything been
written oft' plant. True, £7OOO has been
added to a depreciation fund; but in the
table this fund is included with the reserves.
Probably a truer view of things can be
got from this comparison :
June, ’l5. June, ’l6. Dec., ’l6.
Assets apart from mine
and plant .. .. £596,913 £643,253 £705,910
Liabilities .. .. 272,677 250,098 263,556
Surplus .. .. £324,236 £393,155 £442,354
Thus in the past 18 months the mine has
yielded £300,000 in dividends, paid for all
additions to plant, and put by £llB,llB. The
£703.5)10 of assets other than mine and
plant include the £200,000 interest in the
Associated Smelters, £132,005 sundry debt-
ors (unpaid and expected balances mostly,
no doubt), and £351,675 in deposits and
War Loan. On the other side the liabilities
include £186,700 now owing on debentures
raised in connection with the purchase of
the interest in the Associated Smelters from
the Broken Hill Prop.
It is, of course, absurd to value the mine
on the basis of the past half-year’s profits,
or the past two years’ profits, if it comes
to that. There is not much to choose between
this co.’s ore and that of the B. H. South ;
and on a long stretch of years The Bulletin
showed last week that the South had paid
dividends equal to 11s. Od. per ton of ore.
Above the 1400 ft. the North reckons it has
2,850,000 tons available for stoping. If the
North can average the same in dividends
there is £1,638,000 to come to shareholders,
spread over about 11 years. There is,
besides, the ore below the 1400 ft.; and at
that level the mine looks very healthy, the
ore body being very massive and the metal
content better than the average of the whole
mine. There is no question of the lode dip-
ping out of this property, llow much deeper
it can be worked nobody knows. No doubt
there is a bottom to the saddle-flaps of the
lofte here as there is in the B. H. Prop, and
Block 14, which long ago found out where
it was; but the North hasn’t reached it yet.
The assets, therefore, are (say) £422,000
liquid (excluding the interest in the smelters
on the one side and the debentures on the
other), the possible £1,638,000 from ore
above 1400 ft., and the unknown value of the
ore below 1400 ft. There are 600,000 shares
in the co.
* * * *
Another picture-theatre amalgamation is
on the stocks. There are three Wadding-
ton cos. in Sydney—Waddington’s Continu-
ous, Waddington’s Globe and Waddington’s
Majestic. These three are being put into
one and the Strand and King’s Cross pic-
ture theatres acquired as from Nov. 13 last,
as well as an interest (19-42nd) in thq lease
of the Glaciarium (J. C. Williamson, Ltd.,
holds the balance). The co. will issue
47.000 shares; and £14,000 will be raised
by 8 p.c. debentures as required, £7500 of
them being taken by F. Waddington and
William Lowe as part consideration for the
Strand and King’s Cross places. No state-
ment is published regarding the assets or
business of the various concerns; so it is
impossible to express an opinion upon the
basis of amalgamation.
Tiie Bulletin hasn’t troubled to follow
the Prime Minister in his recent screams
about the metal business. The little man
naturally knows nothing more about the
matter than he has picked up, since the war
began, from people who are nearly all in-
terested and not very scrupulous. The talk
that he has “cut out” the German influence
is, of course, rubbish. The war has cut that
out for the time being, just as it has cut out
German influence in the wool and other
markets. For the present, the most we can
hope to do is to rectify new anomalies that
have been created. In that philosophic
spirit the other day a deputation repre-
senting the Mines Department of N. S.
Wales waited on Hughes and made various
representations ; and he undertook to inquire
into the charge that the small copper gougers
were being squeezed to death by the Aus-
tralian smelting ring into whose hands the
Government has delivered them. But some
at least of the larger men in the mining busi-
ness are suffering, too. The Government
prohibited the export of copper ore, copper
mattes and blister copper. That meant —
what The Bulletin has advocated for so
many years—smelting and .refining in Aus-
tralia. But, while the Government shut out
the British and American buyers of ore,
matte and blister, and while it said, “You
must smelt and refine in Australia,” it made
no attempt to see that the producing mines
were provided with coke; and while fixing
price at which the metal has to be sold, it
did not fix the price at which coke, etc.,
were to be supplied. As a result, some
Queensland mines are held up ; and the out-
look for Mount Elliott and Mount Cuth-
bert is very gloomy. These two could pro-
duce £700,000 worth of copper a year; but
at present they have no coke worth mention-
ing and don’t know where to get it. Elliott
wants 20(H) tons a month and Cuthbert 1000
tons; and the position is becoming very seri-
ous. W. H. Qorbould, the general manager,
was down south this week trying to get the
cos. out of the difficulty which the Govern-
ment has put them into; but he had to leave
with the problem still unsolved.
* * * *
From Broken Hill: —
The British and Junction North are starting mining
operations, while the smelting works at Port Pirie
are so choked up with stuff that there is no room
to move, and there is no possibility of treating the
current output of the mines that have been working
all along. Seeing that there is such a demand fol-
ia bor that the miners are earning bigger money than
they ever saw in their lives, it passes my compre-
hension why the companies should be competing with
one another still more keenly for such labor as is
available. The extensions to the Associated Smelters’
plant at Port Pirie were to have been ready by
now, but that is so far from being the case that
the capacity is, if anything, less than it was before
the additions were started, on account of the dis-
organisation caused by the alterations going on. The
starting of more mines in the circumstances is a
puzzle.
* ■ * #• *
Yodda Valley Gold Co. has acquired the
old Long Tunnel mine at Gundagai
(N.S.W.). Yodda was a Papuan venture
which made a ridiculous under-estimation
of the difficulty of carrying heavy machinery
over the rough country to the property. But
apparently it saved a little from the wreck.
•***■•*
Though Peacock, prodded by the Trades
Hall, threatens to take up brown coal seri-
ously, what he has done so far won’t put
a polisli on the rusty rails leading to the
deposit. Mines-Minister Livingstone knows
what violent opposition there would be to
the State poking its nose into the profitable
business of digging brown coal and turning
P into electric current. How profitable is
illustrated by the £102,000 netted in Mel-
bourne city alone for electricity in a year,
with the Melbourne Electric Co. raking in
another £131,000 for power supplied to the
trams and councils outside of the metropoli-
tan area. Private Enterprise is already on the
qui vire over Professor Payne’s declaration
that Peacock ought to declare at once that
the main power-station with the trunk mains
a I Morwell must be a State enterprise. There
is already a rustling in the Legislative Coun-
cil, and preparations are in progress to
block any move that way, the excuse being
that the Government hasn’t cash to play
with. This is amusing when one reads the
names on the pegs round Morwell, and hears
that the Amalgamated Zinc is bagging some
of the coal for purposes of its own. If the
baldnce-sheets and accounts of the City
Council and the Melbourne Electric Co. are
right, the State can’t run much business risk
by manufacturing electricity from brown
coal.
Here are some gold-mining figures pre-
sented by George Buchanan, of Ballarat-
Buchanan runs a machinery yard, and is a
director of more mining companies in Bal-
larat than any other man. The figures show
the gold won : Victoria United, £613,800 ; New
Normanby, £542.036 ; North, £583,82S ; Last
Chance. £396,809; Llanberris No. 1,
£434,340. To get out £2,571,713 of gold
looks well; but what did it cost? Buchanan
puts the sum down at £2,524,250. Wages
alone required £1,645,269. The return to
the shareholders for nearly half a century’s
work was £221,250, so it can’t be said that
Ballarat East mining ever did much more
than give work to the miner and the machinery
man. It was the picking up of odd patches
that kept most' of the mines on the go.
North Woah Hawp would have been sold up
over and over again save for that; and even
at Llanberris No. 1, Buchanan’s pet show,
good stone will have to be forthcoming pretty
soon at 1200 ft. if the bellman isn’t to
announce another lot of plant for sale.
* * * *
Great Extended Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.),
wants not only a mine manager but a bit of
capital to pig along with till the junction of
the two reefs is got ahead. The cost won’t
be high, and as prospecting is worth the
flutter, the appeal passes the censor.
Nullagine Sluicing Co. (W.A.) is in dis-
tress. First of all, want of water was the
trouble; then it was found that the plant
was in the wrong place. Now, hardness of
ground is seriously affecting the quantity
sluiced. The Melbourne Board is considering
the advisableness of sending Moline or some
other topnotch expert across the Bisrht to
look into things. Meantime the co. is bor-
rowing money from its backers to keep
going.
Edna May Junction’s Westonia option, has
just been reported on by manager Collins.
Twenty-five samples of quartz and horn-
blende taken from the workings between the
75ft. and 100 ft. levels, and from the two
faces at the latter depth, were assayed at
the Edna May Central, and are stated to
have averaged 1295. A 150-ton crushing
is being sent to the Greenfinch mill, and from
this a yield of from l|oz. to 2oz. per ton is
expected. The return may be up to expecta-
tions; but that is not the point. The shoot
has narrowed considerably in the bottom,
and to prove beyond doubt in deeper ground
whether the show is worth anything or not
will require a good deal of money. The
possibilities are that this crushing and one
from the co.’s other option, the Great
Unknown, at Marda, will be announced
simultaneously, thus exhilarating the mar-
ket and permitting the wise ones to get out
comfortably.
Edna May No. 5 level is opening up well,
and t'ae main shaft is making haste towards
No. 6 level. Although water troubles seem
likely to affect operations at depth, there
is no chance of dividends declining for some
time; consequently the bears are not feeling
well.
* * * *
About this time last year Kalgoorlie mine-
owners and mine-workers discussed the
question of increased wages. In view of
the increased cost of living, Gd. per shift
rise was offered to married men receiving
the minimum rate of wages. The unions
scornfully rejected this offer and affiliated
with the Federated Mining Employees’ Asso-
ciation of Australia. Subsequently the
Association served a new log on the mine-
owners. and, as they declined to consider
it, a Federal Arbitration Court plaint em-
bodying the log followed. The new rates
scared the mining cos., which hurriedly
called a conference with the employees. The
latter were told what was going to happen
to the industry if their demands were con-
ceded. The unions have since considered
the employers’ amended offer of 11s. 3d. for
surface workers and 11s. Bd. for truckers
and shovellers, but declare these rates in-
sufficient for them and their families to live
on in comfort. So the demands will go before
the Court, though the mine-owners declare
that if the claims are granted most of the
big mines on the field, now working on the
barest margin of profit, must be closed down.
Kalgoorlie tributors are again grumbling
at the royalties demanded by local mining
cos. It is alleged that the cos. do not let
ground until they find they cannot work it
profitably themselves, and if tributors do
well the cos. annex a big slice of the net
proceeds in royalties—in some cases as much
as 40 p.c. The Minister for Mines has been
asked to frame a regulation fixing a maxi-
mum of 20 p.c. for royalties, and stipulating
that tributes shall be on the block system.
Failing the block system a 12 months’ agree-
ment is asked for. The Minister has also
been requested to fix the price of mining
requisites, for which tributors and small
leaseholders have at present to pay far too
much.
**. * *
Mount Elliott is timed to start smelting
in April, and General-manager Corbould
has been down south making some
final arrangements —or trying to. The
works have been thrown into shape to
treat 7 p.c. ore, and as high prices
seem assured for a year or two, great profits
should drop in. But the concern is on a
different basis now. Its authorised capital
has been increased, to £1.252,000 in shares of
£5 each. The issued capital up to the
present is £1,187,590, so next to Mount
Lyell, Elliott will be the most highly capi-
talised copper co. in Australia. The Dob-
byn will also claim a portion of the profit.
This is one of the best copper shows
managed by Mount Elliott; but the big
make of 8 p.c. ore at the 300 ft. level may
not be characteristic of the whole mine.
Old Captain Osborne has applied for the
copper leases at Mount Chalmers (Q.),
previously held by the Great Fitzroy Co.,
and six months’ exemption has been asked
for. Osborne and his sons are heavily
interested in Papuan copper mines, and
would welcome a smelting base so handy
for shipping as the Great Fitzroy, near
Rockhampton.
New Lyell Consols replaces dead Mount
Lyell Consols with a big register of 200,000
paids and 150,000 contribs. C. T. Dunster
is the driving force. When the S,
Aus. State Government went boring near
the old Yefta, at Kadina, Dunster left Lyell
to take on the new job. A London crowd
followed him fa the show, and has now
proffered a few shares to test the Tasmanian
claim. Jock Woolcock will do the spending
and the mining. There are many more
promising things.
* * * *
The Speck Government has turned down
the Ida Bay cement proposition. When
S. .1. Dawson submitted it a while ago he
was told that to make it go he would have
to prove that there was an absolutely certain
supply of coal and shale. He went ahead
and found good seams and looked up Premier
Lee again, Lee told him that fie liked the
proposition, but he didn’t see any. chance,
of getting it through the House of Dodory,
so he would not bother about it.
The directors of the May Queen, Frank-
fort (Tas.), a.show mostly owned at Devon-
port, put up the novel plea that so many
shareholders are on active service that it can-
not keep at work, and they wanted to save
the sections from forfeiture for non-compli-
ance with the labor conditions. The plea
did not work, however, and the warden
ordered the forfeiture of the lease. The
people who got the show forfeited may be
the sorriest, though, in the end. It has been
fossicked about for years and contains just
about enough copper to lead people to spend
money ou it.
* * * *
There has been a little life lately in
osmiridium mining in the country along the
Wilson and Savage Rivers (Tas.). Buyers
who are supposed to be American are giving
about £7 per o’z. for the metal, and there is
something in it at that, although it is a
poor price compared with the £ll and even
£l3 that the stuff used to fetch before the
war, when there were well over 100 men
working in the creeks. Just now the
osmiridium country is hard to get at because
the Wilson River bridge has gone.
Two hydro-electric plants have been
under the hammer. Cassilis (Vic.) is well
known as a gold-producer that paid divi-
dends a few years ago with a very ordinary
plant, but latterly the co. has been more
burdened than benefited by having an ex-
pensive new installation. The little Magnet
Silver-Lead Co. (Tas.) purchased most of
this plant, and intends to make use of its new
water supply to generate power. The
Browns of Newcastle were considerable pur-
chasers, too. The old Eleanora (N.S.W.) is
also selling oft', and the fine electrical instal-
lation will be made use of elsewhere. In
this case the tonnage of payable ore avail-
able was ridiculously small compared with
the heavy cost of the plant. In a case of
this kind treatment is only a small part of
the total exes.; foy instance, the high cost of
following a rich but very narrow streak of
stone prevents Baker’s Creek from paying
dividends even from 3oz. stone. The neigh-
boring Eleanora had a larger reef, but it was
desperately patchy. One dividend was paid
in the long ago.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 3Ji.)


.CiiiVuroJJi***
HEERING'S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
TO be becomingly and cor-
rectly dressed simply
means understanding style
and adapting style to the
individual taste.
A GAGE HAT IS CORRECT STYLE.
It is the product of an organised effort
that covers the world’s style centres, and
the variety of Gage Models shown by
the Leading Millinery Establishments
enables you to find just the Hat' you
want, be it Dress, Street, Outing or
Sports Hat.
PAULINE et CIE
Announce that on and after March 5, 1917,
they will hold their Autumn and Winter Show
of Model Hats, Frocks, Coats and Skirts, etc.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
Appointments made by letter or telephone if
desired. City 10167.
SINCE 1679- SINCE 1679
HAIG & HAIG
S COTS WHIS KY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March 5, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
Vague notices of a Town Hall meeting to
welcome Comforts Fund Commissioner
Budden enticed one or two petticoats into
the municipal portals. But the hour was
noon on washing-day, and the weaker units
wilted away before the steady tramp of
male boots. It was merely a mayoral gath-
ering, with something out of the cupboard
and a few remarks from War Chest and
other citizens. Veteran Tom Dibbs, who
was in the party, bears his new K.B. as
easily as if it were a packet of pins.
Ilow far on their way to England the
sub-regal Stricklands will get is not yet
settled. Perhaps father will keep on through
the danger zone and leave the family in some
safe speck on the way. But at date of
writing there hasn’t come the official word
from the Colonial Office, so If is standing
stiff in the corner all the time.
Housemaids’ brooms will bang round the
corners of Admiralty House in two or three
weeks. The Munro Fergusons cross the
Murray to break the Easter egg hereabouts,
and unpack at the old naval humpy.
More changes. Commodore Henderson, the
unobtrusive chief at Garden Island, leaves
for the other end in a few weeks. He will
be chaperoned by his capable sister, the
masterful lady who bosses the bluejackets’
wives for their own good, and generally
takes charge of their parties at the Royal
Naval House.
Captain Firth, the tall gent, help who
migrated from the Stricklands’ staff to
attend the G.-G., is returning to the infuri-
ated Front. Earlier, in France, he got a
helping of lead that sent him here for a
long convalescence. At last a Medical Board
gives the word “fit for active service.” So
he rejoins his old regiment, the Worcesters.
In the early spring of last week Governor
Strickland took the chair at the first annual
greeting of the Voluntary Workers’ Associa-
tion. About the most vivid money-maker for
the Association is the cafe in Moore-street.
Started without trepidation by Mrs. Nott,
Mrs. Amess and Mrs. Greatorex, it clears
1100 a month. When Dr. Arthur was dealing-
out the melted butter to everyone concerned in
the French’s Forest experiment, a voice in
the back of the hall yelled: “What about
Kettlewell?” “Oh, I’m coming to him,” said
the little doctor. “He’s in a class by him-
self, for he can beg, borrow or get some-
how a motor-lorry or any other means of
transport we want.” This brought the ova-
tion of the evening, for the shy hon. trans-
port officer, who undertakes to get the work-
ers to the work, hides in a hollow log when
the Distinguished Visitor stalks the soldiers’
settlement.
Dr. Cecil Purser is getting back to his
best form after a convalescence on the Moun-
tains. He is the Wahroonga man who was
so seriously ill till Surgeon MacCormick put
things right.
Another front-rank doctor, the brawny
Elkington, Commonwealth Health Officer in
Queensland, has been in Sydney to be over-
hauled by the magical MacCormick. In his
case, though, the the magician shook his
head, and declined the projected operation
for the present. “And altogether, I hope,”
said the great surgeon with the quick fingers
and the slow tongue.
Harold O'Neill, a well-known solicitor on
the Northern Rivers, has taken a partner
into the firm. She is Lucy Rixon, of Mus-
wellbrook. The ’groom leaves shortly on
active service. He won’t be lonely where
lie’s going: 14 of the Rixons already have
their letters addressed “Somewhere in
France.”
Died at Bathurst, aged 60, W. P. Bassett,
who had been mending the western town for
over 30 years. The recent executions in
Bathurst gaol helped. The doctor had to
.attend officially, and the horror unnerved
him. But lung trouble had him marked
down in any case.
Llewellyn’s folks kept up St. David’s Day
with appropriate songs in Welsh and Eng-
lish. Owen Cox was chairman of the com-
mittee, and the burst of ancient melody was
in St. James’s Hall. Conductor E. H.
Jones, who now shapes Manly’s Phil.
Society, was in charge. He’s the enthusiast
who made a Katoomba musical society sing
like larks a few years ago.
Red Cross dames impounded Stuart
Osborne, just returned from the fighting
zone, to chat about his searches amongst the
missing. The N. S. Wales man is so modest
about his own work—he was at the
stretcher-bearer’s' job in France that he
mostlv talks of what the other fellow did.
And notably of the heroic courage of mere
lads, both Australian and British, under the
torment of agonising wounds. They put to
shame the black man, who was supposed to
bear suffering better than the white. ’ lhe
war has proved that the white races can not
only do but die with a superb indifference to
pain—an indifference which some ot us
thought had passed with the cult of higher
civilisation and nerves.”
Starting at Malta, Stuart Osborne finished
his 14 months’ Bed Cross work.in France.
Here he got to know the British Red Cross
still better. And now he can only throw
bouquets at its wonderful organisation. It
is constantly doing a little more. It
takes under its wing the nearest relatives of
hopelessly-wounded men who cannot be
moved from France. It puts them aboard
a Channel boat; they are met on the other
side, and personally conducted to the doomed
husband, son or father, they can spend
three or four weeks, if needs be, by the bed-
side —and then they are seen safely back to
England.
Lieut. Tom Dixson, killed in France in
December, leaves a pretty little widow, one
or two young children and £132,040. He
was of that type of Australian who couldn’t
stay at home in ease while there was a
coo-ee for help from mates on the other side.
The Dixsons lived at Redleaf, the square
white house that used to be the Fred Lasset-
ters’ home, out beyond Double Bay.
The genial McNally, water colorist of
note and butter-agent by trade, has just
returned to Melbourne after a look at our
best scenery. Ilis is a handy combination
in these supposedly lean years. During
the past 12 months he has sold over £250
worth of art —and has used a good deal of
it to give visiting artists and writers a
good time in liis country crib. If you want
to see how completely he forgets dairy pro-
duce when he tackles a camel’s-liair brush,
step down to the Sydney National Gallery.
There’s a McNally in the Spencer loan col-
lection.
The cable has brought word of another
Military Cross to an Australian. This time
it is John Aloysius Fitzherbert, who had such
a dazzling win of prizeware at Riverview a
few years ago. Scholarships took him on
to our Uni., and with more scholarships and
a course of Arts and Medicine to his credit
he went off to Cambridge for an extra
polish. Kaiser Willie interrupted his plans,
however, and now the scholar bears two
stars on the cuffs of his Fusilier suit, all
spattered with Flanders mud.
A son of the late S. A. Stephen has been
handed a C.B. to affix to his Ilielan’ name of
Robert Campbell. The new C.B. got liis first
knowledge of the three R’s at All Saints’,
Bathurst, and a final haw-haw at Cam-
bridge. He coloneled the 12th Hussars in
India till the army moved on to Babylon, or
thereabouts, and there he was made respon-
sible for a cavalry brigade. Sickness finally
sent the soldier to England, where he is try-
ing to recover some lost vitality. A brother
is Colin Stephen, man of law in this town.
Tony Hordern, when last sighted, was
having a busy time in charge of a Red Cross
depot at Amiens, within gun-range of our
friend the enemy.
Woolly unions occasionally punctuate the
quiet Lenten season. Dick Vickers, of
IJralla, gave his arm to Verlie Clift in old
St. Philip's Church on a recent fine after-
noon. The bride is a daughter of the late
W. Clift, of Breeza. Her finery in white
shimmer was draped with Limerick lace, and
her fair head was veiled in the same gossa-
mer. Something in the way of an azure
lining (to match Australian skies) was a
digression from the usual pink interior to
the bridal train. Fluffy knots of white tulle
and orange blossoms touched up this pearl-
embroidered plumage. Bridesmaidens Lilian
Clift and Myee and Sylvia Vickers wore
foamy clouds of white and gold and butter-
color over blush pink. The cake was cut at
Petty’s.
Judge Roseby, who has recently been
climbing our Blue Hills, went back to the
New Hebrides in the Makambo. This is his
last trip to the cannibal isles, as he’s booked
to deal out justice at the Mauritius.
The award of another lot of Royal Red
Crosses to Australian matrons and nurses
is a reminder that the Nightingale who ruins
her health by working overtime for the
armies hasn’t, like the soldier, the pro-
spective comfort of a pension. This is one of
the surviving relies of an outworn army
system and should be scrapped as soon as
possible. After she has spent herself in
patriotic work, the army sister may turn
back to civil nursing—if she can do it. Often
she cannot, and then there is a saddened
woman whose decoration is merely a re-
minder that England forgets the nurse who
does her duty. And Australia meanly fol-
lows suit.
The Jap training ship Taisei Maru* was
lying across the bay the other afternoon
when skipper Kanno held out his hand to
greet the climbing guest. Consul Shimizu
and his small lady helped to name the pal-
pitating arrivals.’ Music through bamboo
flutes —the players sitting on their heels —
was one of the titbits of the party. It’s a
mixture of the bamboo reeds’ soft creak in a
high wind and a Japanese lullaby whistling
round the next corner.
First Field Artillery bees swarmed round
the Repertory on Saturday night, to catch
the honey for their Comforts Fund. Mrs.
Plogsted, lion, organiser of the Patriotic
Players’ Club, was leading lady in the ama-
teur show, “Mrs. Dane's Defence.” Her
frocks would have touched the hearts of even
a feminine jury. Notably an apple-green
confection with an Arctic relief of white fur
that stood out over the tops of a pair of
heavenly white boots. Mrs. Dane’s tempo-
rary young man, Lionel, ploughed his way
through his stage business engulfed in a pair
of spats and a sac suit several sizes too large.
Mrs. Agnes King, a hard-worked lion. sec. of
the Ist F. A. fund, hovered round the fropt
of the house as a beacon to young ushers in
distress. There was a sprinkle of khaki, but
not much else with its hair cut short —say.
a six-to-one feminine majority.
The Red Cross Pickle Depot in Ash-street
owes its success to the toil and busi-
ness capacity of the chief lion, cook,
Mrs. Joscelyne. With Mrs. Moncrieff as
second in command, and a steady supply of
V.A.D. workers —a supply that stretches like
an elastic band when needed —the onion is
the only cause for tears. There is no shirk-
ing and no platform oratory in the condi-
ment depot.
On Saturday afternoon the lady picklers
met, surrounded by much bunting, to present
the Red Cross representative, barrister Ilan-
bury Davies, with a cosy cheque for £145.
This was the result of their concert —Mrs.
Leslie Norton, lion, organiser—in December.
As the small affair was free from exes, this
sum represented the gross proceeds. Some
of the organisers of concerts-to-come might
tumble up the pickle stairs and find out how
to run a show with no driblets from the
takings.
An Australian for some time resident in
Norfolk Island gives some quaint sidelights
on the lately-departed “Aunt Susan,” other-
wise Mrs. Fletcher Nobbs. A clever, crafty,
picturesque old woman, the Tahitian blood
showed in her sparkling black eyes and pale
olive skin. She expected tourists to call on
her, as a matter of etiquette, and invariably
made a great impression on strangers. In
years gone by her meddling in matrimonial
matters hadn’t been always appreciated by
the Norfolkers, though Aunt Susan, as a
matchmaker, had the instincts of a West
End mamma. The redoubtable John Adams,
by the way, who had been one of the wild
spirits of the Bounty days, “reformed” in a
curious manner, lie had a dream that he
died and went to Hell. Not liking it, he
made a vow when he awoke that he would
take to religion. So he became the local
preacher, and expounded the Lord in illit-
erate English. Mixed with Tahitian, this
developed into the queer lingo—there’s no
other word for it —the older Norfolkers still
speak.
Harking back to Norfolk Island, is the
Government taking note of the steady de-
struction of the magnificent pines,. at once
the wind-breaks and glory of this green
paradise in the Pacific? If not, why not.
The axe swings at their roots, and there is
no organised effort to replant them. In 10
years, at the present rate of destruction, the
tourist is likely to have the pine remnants
pointed out as curios. An agent buys the
right to chop down these giants, their easy-
going Island owners caring only for the
present. One old • inhabitant was asked why
she had sacrificed a few big pines that ware
amongst the best on the island. She said
she wanted the money to buy a really hand-
some tombstone for a dead relative!
E. Gard Trouton, who used to be promi-
nent in Sydney yachting circles in the days
when the mosquito fleet had no war to shake
its hulls, goes to the Ivatt’s homestead,
near Bathurst, for a few weeks. He is a
hefty war-worker taking a breather till
Easter. A brother in France lias been try-
ing his French in a local hospital, but the
ailment is only temporary.
Ted Norrie, son of the late solicitor
Norrie, of Rose Bay, who left here as a cap-
tain, is now entitled to wear a star alongside
his major’s crown. Three campaigns—New
Guinea, Gallipoli and France —have so far
failed to land him a “blighty” one. But he’s
touching wood, though.
If the boys in France need to be distin-
guished from the first arrivals on Gallipoli,
what’s the matter with “Franzac”?
Arthur Du Boise, who' went through our
front gates in the latter half of 1915, is back
again with some tales to tell. With the
Flying Corps as an objective he sailed
aboard the Clan MacTavish, and everyone
knows what befell her. Taken by the raider
as a prisoner to the Canaries, he was held
there till released with others on condition
he didn’t take up military service. But he
had to do something, so he put in a lot of
good work with the Red Cross people. Then
he attached himself to a hospital supported
by authors J. M. Barrie and E. V. Lucas
(both knights of the realm now), and just
before returning home took a brother’s place
at the Rouge Croix depot at St. Omar.
The Army Service Corps ladies don’t in-
tend to lurk in their Barrack-street lair
when the Show beasts oellow round the
same old ring. They’ve linked up with the
Engineers and Signallers, and sent a coo-ee
to the 17th Battalion. Result: a refresh-
ment tent at the big Easter fixture.
This extract is from a furniture advt. in a
’Murkan journal that caters for the first line
of millionaires and such-like persons:—
The rare and little-known Australian Piumwood
lias in its natural state, when cut, a changeable
golden lustre combined with the mellowness of old
Satinwood. The figuring is distinct and beautiful.
But I don’t see any booming of local woods in
our home papers.
U-boats capsized the plans of the two
Mackinnon girls, of Jnnee, just as they had
turned the key on their kit-bags, meaning to
have a look in on sister May, who went trip-
ping to Blighty just before Hades broke
away from its moorings.
A fashionable Mountain hostel was roused
at 3 o’clock the other morning by a sound as
of the Universe falling through the roof.
Lights flicked up, and lovely woman with
or without her best boudoir cap peered round
corridor corners. One old lady took up a
commanding position on her bedroom mat
and timidly inquired if there was anytliiny
the matter. The Belgian Consul, who had
been open-air sleeping on the balcony, dashed
inside to try to locate the uproar. Then
some inspired boarder thought it would be as
well to rouse the manager in a distant part
of the building. The Universe resolved itself
into a falling kitchen chimney. It had been
burnt on top, and with the help of a west-
erly gale the loosened mason-work gave a
bomb display. Eggs and toast for breakfast
and everyone as brave as lions.
This is straight from the new Zoo. A
nursery governess had taken the two blase
seven-year-old twins of a well-known
Northern Suburbs resident on a voyage of
discovery and instruction, and the seals,
their customs and habits, were being
minutely explained. “And is that really
sealskin they have on?”, asked one twin. The
governess said it was. “Dear me!” com-
mented the other twin. “However can they
afford it?”
Hospital Saturday has now permanently
changed its name to Hospital Friday, the
latter being a better day to catch the
coppers. Its 1017 cadge will be the first
with A. L. Blythe as lion. sec. He is about
half the size of the outgoing man, J. .T.
Cohen. But lie has industry enough for a
volcano.
Lieut. Marcel Aurousseau, who got the
Military Cross a few weeks ago, used to be
lecturer in geology in the W.A. Uni.
With cooler weather a month hence
there are threats of heavy woollen blouses—
the fearsome things of a few years back,
which bulge above the waist-line and give
plump women the outlines of a water-barrel.
Also—furs! For quite eight or nine weeks
a year the Sydney woman can bear a
’possum coat, with an Esquimaux collar.
The thrift campaign ladies are going to ses
that you don’t waste that ham knuckle or
lightly toss away the mutton bone. Perhaps
they’ll get on the trail of the lady who
intends to swelter in a 40-guinea fur coat at
Show-time.
The Veterans’ Home at La Perouse is
hungry for funds, and the committee is after
your contribution.
Sydney Hoben, the golden-haired young
man who was in Sydney’s musical circle a
few years back, was lately sighted off the
North Island of Maoriland. In the interval
he has been teaching the young things ot
Los Angeles how to play on the baby grand
and the organ, too, if they liked.
Lucille Benstead, the upstanding singer
who was born at Alice Springs, which well
from the heart of Australia, is entertaining
Billjim in London. Her latest effort to amuse
the ’ Kangaroo was backed up by Albert
Whelan, also of this favored spot of earth,
Lucille’s brother is with a Kentish regiment
in France.
Mrs. Lyster Ormsby is rounding-up strag-
glers for a picture show in King’s Cross
Theatre (Darlinghurst) on March 21. It’s to
feed the Paddington centre for soldiers
wives and mothers.
' Two' fearless horsewomen, Mabel and
Gwen Horsley, of Yabtree station, are now
doing sister Susie’s work in London. In the
piping times of peace they often used to
break in horses on daddy’s run—just for
fun. Now I suppose they’re breaking m
much tamer things—heels of socks, for in-
stance.
Two well-known Orange families are now
linked up,by the local parson. Sadie Waine
said she didn’t mind if she did when the
usual questions were asked her about this
man Leslie Howard Brown. The ’groom
handed her some diamonds as a further
token of his esteem. But as for the wedding
itself, it was a case of “no frills,” as the
bride’s brother is in the firing-line, and —you
never can tell!
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
JEWELLERS.
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS.
£lO
The Compa n y ’ s Gem
Kings are of the Finest
Quality. Tile Gems used
have been ohosen with
speeial care, and the
workmanship in the Ring
Mollnt i n g s is of tlie
Highest Standard.
Selections, with » Finger-
Size Curd for measure-
ment, tnrwar cl e ti on
approval if desired.
Five .per cent. Discount
allowed on all t’asli
Transactions.
£lO
SHOWROOMS
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY & BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON W
fs
YOU
CAN GIVE COMFORT
TO THE BOYS
IN THE TRENCHES.
There are many ways in which you can
give help and comfort to the boys in the
trenches, but the best is to take and send
them photos of friends.
Those who have travelled know the heart hunger which so often takes
possession of them —the yearning for a sight of those who have been left
behind causes a feeling of depression which a letter cannot dispel, but if
that letter is accompanied bv a Photo —be it ever so small —the depression
instantly vanishes and gives place to a feeling of gladness and exhilaration.
Our boys in the trenches are feeling the absence from their loved ones
far more than those who have travelled for business or pleasure. Hell)
them to shake it off, and at the same time make them more fit for the
work they are doing, by sending them Photos of those they have a tender
feeling for.
Start this srood work to-day; if you have not a Camera, call and make
a selection from our large stock; we can supply you with a complete outfit
for a few shillings.
Send Your Residues and Assays
to HARRINGTONS’.—
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and Other Metal Workers can depend
on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them, to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Hold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our Traveller will call on you.
lIP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St. 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, Sydney.
f A \
mmMi
\ r f
'V,
U\
K*
***>
w
I
EVERY NIGHT A DELIGHT If YOU
OWN A PIANOLA PIANO
Mothers and Fathers, what are you doing
to provide wholesome recreation in your
home for your sons and daughters and
their friends ?
Why not instal a Pianola Piano in your
home, and keep the young people with
you and enjoy their company ?
BUT BE CERTAIN YOU PURCHASE
The GENUINE.
Pianola Piano
• which is only obtainable in the following
pianos :
STEINWAY, STECK, STROUD,
AEOLIAN, WEBER.
You needn’t wait until you can pay cash
—we will accept a deposit as low as
and the balance in easy monthly pay-
ments, and take your old piano at a hand-
some allowance.
Write us for Catalog and Price List.
TO THE PIANOLA COMPANY—
Please send me catalog and price list of
PIANOLA PIANOS, shoving how I can purchase
an instrument for cash or easg terms, and what
allowance you can make on my present piano,
which is a
bought about
Name
Address
«srH
Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AND AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE <a ADELAIDE.


Farmer's for the Renowned '"Stetson"
THE HAT FOR PARTICULAR MEN*
dfg
AVfi Pay Carriage on these Hats
any part of Australia.
There is a distinctly superior tone about the
“Stetson.” Its perfect and permanent shape
lines are immediately apparent, and its great
serviceability makes it easily your best Hat
investment. ;
TTRBB. We have just received a new
shipment of STETSON PLAIN FELTS, in
very distinctive shapes, one of which we
here illustrate. Colors obtainable —Light
Slate, Dark Slate, Light Grey with black
band, Fawn, Brown and Black. All sizes.
PRICE 39/6
URB9. Also a fine range of STETSON
VELOUR FELTS. Various shades, with
black and slate bands.
PRICE 357-
Men's Hat Department, Ground Floor,
Pitt Street.
FARMER'S, PITT < MARKET & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY
PATRIOTIC WOMEN
are determined to wear only English made Corsets.
PATRIOTIC WELL-DRESSERS
should remember that Nautilus Corsets represent
the latest decree of Fashion, and are procurable
at prices to meet all demands.
MORE WOMEN ARE WANTED
to wear the English made Nautilus
Corsets and to help English Manufactures.
ENGLISH MADE NAUTILUS CORSETS
are the popular Corsets of to-day.
If your Draper
cannot supply
you
Write the Agents
279 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
89 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, March 5, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Newmarket Handicap drew the rich
country people to Flemington on Saturday
—and w'eren’t they tamely dressed! The
day before the race the best hotels were
infested with milliners’ messengers laden
with the be-ribboned bandboxes that make
husbands and fathers curse. I had great
hopes of a day of autumn visions, but the
parade was almost dowdy. Most of the hats
must have been a failure and have been
sent back with tears and expostulation. It
was a shiny hot day and, as the newest
hat is the size of a lunch-plate, eyes and
noses suffered terribly. The trimmings of
the silly things are celluloid, ivory, wool or
silk, all laid flat on the surface.
Mrs. Sam Maekay went nearly apoplectic
under her tiny top; but maybe excitement
over the family nag’s sensational running
helped. Mrs. Tye took the utter defeat of
their horse in a pale pink model frock. Mrs.
Geoff Syme said “Bother!” after the race
from under a lovely flat lace pancake. Mrs.
Roger's Thompson was cool as ice-cream
in a good complexion and a white lingerie
frock. Mrs. Waters, from Sydney, stewed
in moss-green velvet, which reached to her
ears. Mrs. Stephen Brunton —also visiting
—was in black and white. The Jack Wallace
dame strode about in cool linen tailorings.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart was in navy serge.
Mrs. Eric Connolly gave up the races for
her strenuous patriotic week bazaar and just
said a hurried hurrah when the family Court
Jester danced in at the last race. The
MciVliekings were down from Riverina way
and took the lawn in cool muslin fittings.
Every woman made for shady patches. They
clustered along the white-rose edge of the
lawn and under the elms like a lot of sheep
in the heat and tirelessly powdered their
noses.
The Brighton festival raged prosperously
during the whole of the week, and red lights
.showed strangers the way to the show when
night fell. The Vice-regals were scientifi-
cally held-up, the' pretty Brighton girls prov-
ing irresistible. Special trams and trains
van and jolted, and the sleepy, salted suburb
that usually puts out the cat at 10 and gets
up early to run for the train felt that Paris
at its best hadn’t much to show it.
Captain Guy Madden has at length made a
move in the direction of the war. Last
week lie went quietly aboard a boat, bound
for Britain with a view to getting a commis-
sion—haw!—in the Imperial Army.
Colonel Rupert Downes, of the A.M.C.,
who has been on service abroad since the
early days on Gallipoli, is still at work some-
where in Egypt. _ His wife lately decided
to take a short holiday from her job as
secretary to the Union of Soldiers’ Wives,
and, carefully picking her way among the
regulations and embargoes, steamed off
for Alexandria and Cairo the other day,
hoping to find her Rupert waiting for her
somewhere between the Swamps and the
Smells.
Little Mrs. Guy Sherwood is mourning
for her son. Lieut. Athol Adams, who met
his death in Egypt whilst flying. Young
Adams was a typical Australian boy, with
plenty of dash and initiative. His mother
is a kinswoman of the Iluddart Parkers.
The Countess of Darnley—an Australian
herself —has been entertaining Billjim at
Cobham Hall, and enthusing over the en-
graved rose-bowl the boys gave her in return
for the joyous Christmas sprees she pro-
vided. The keepsake was decorated with
the rising-sun badge of the A I.F. As every
flapper has been taught by her grandmother,
the Darnley countess was once Florence
; Morphy and married cricketer Ivo Bligh
] before the title and estates fell into his
\belltopper.
.Said with some truth that soldiers cannot
Ibe induced to go back to their plain city
jobs. Here’s ex-State Commandant Williams
bucking at taking up his Ballarat town-clerk-
ing while the guns still boom. The Defence
Department has promised to send him on
transport duty, whereby he’ll get a needed
:sea voyage with a dash of danger.
Sometime this month Melbourne Grammar
Franklin and Professor Wallace
will go into camp together. “Lofty” (as the
“head” is termed in scholastic circles), after
much angling for a substitute, has made a
big catch in Canon Girdlestone, the ex-head
of St. Peter’s (Adelaide), He will throw
away the pipe of peace be has been smoking
in Sydney and take over Franklin’s cane as
his bit of war work. Franklin’s brother,
now a captain in the Bananaland Light
Horse, got away with the first of our Bill-
jims.
The Wrixon dame’s surviving boy, who
holds a British commission, has won a Mili-
tary Cross. Elder-son Arthur fell in the
British trenches last year. The dame, who
was a Money Miller daughter, is at present
in England.
Captain Mannisty, who organised the cleri-
cal side of the Australian Navy at its in-
ception, was away in the misty North Sea
through many weary months of warfare and
did some big thing which is censored at
present but which earned him a C.M.G. and
a London shore job. Now he is working
comfortably within coo-ee of his Australian
wife and his sons Peter and John. John is
the Australian-born of the family.
The Red Crossers have now invaded the
stables at Federal Government House. A
number of women, including Mrs. Cherry,
Mrs. Grey-Smith, and one of the squatting
Moffat dames, have started rebinding books
for the soldiers where the vice-regal horse-
flesh usually feeds. They mend and fumi-
gate old gift literature and make it safe and
presentable for hospital patients.
Some quaint birds fluttu 1 in and out of the
Town Hall recruiting-depot. There is that
sad young man Abdul Mohammed, w T ho has
tried nine times to enlist but is unable to
do so because, when he reached Australia
17 years ago from Mount Lebanon, where he
was born in 1894, he failed to naturalise his
Oriental self. So, although Abdul speaks
six languages, he cannot find the right word
to answer contemners who want to know
why he doesn’t enlist. Then there is Wil-
liam Marshall, the mascot of the depot, an
old-age pensioner of 74, who drops in daily
to see how things are going and. give a
cheerful word to the younger generation as it
signs on.
Norma Macmeikan floated back to Mel-
bourne this week. Norma is now Mrs Rex
Flatau, and has been living in America for
the last year or so. As Rex was determined
to go Hun-baiting, she has come home to
dwell awhile with her mother, Mrs. Fitz-
Gerald.
Frank Brown, who, among other things,
is half-brother to poet-dramatist Louis
Esson, has taken unto himself a suit of
khaki and means to add another adventure
—the biggest of all—to a crowded life. Since
he left the Scotch College, not so very many
years back, Frank has been in most pavts
of the .world, his occupations having varied
from cow-punching in Canada and vaudeville
in the Woodrow Wilson republic to explora-
tion and sheep-droving in the Northern
Territory. About a year ago he married
Edie Calder (who used to decorate the
stage) and is now' a proud father —in fact,
one of the proudest.
Adelaide’s brief:—
The Women’s Non-Party Association, which has
hitherto found shelter at the May Club, has shifted
into rooms of its own. They were formally opened
by Mrs. Crawford Vaughan on Wednesday. Mrs.
Rischbietli, president of the Women’s Service Guild
in W.A., who is here on a visit, has been listed to
give one of the first lectures in the new premises,
and the committee has arranged a varied programme
of addresses for the year.
W. G. Marsh, one of the best of our orators, has
undergone an operation for cataract, and, although
he hasn’t youth on his side, is reported to be on
the road to renewed health. He has been partially
blind for some time, a misfortune that has in no
way diminished his enthusiasm for his pulpit work
or for recruiting.
Lieut. Errol Monk, of the Naval Airship Service,
is home on four months’ furlough as the result of a
bad accident. His stay with his people in Adelaide
will be brief, as in these days the best (or worst)
part of four months is absorbed in the voyage across
the world and back.
An attempt to get Shackleton to lopk us up on
his way to England has failed. He has wired from
Maoriland to say it is imperative that he should get
to England as soon as possible. Presumably he’s
going by the American route.
Rabbit-breeding, like rabbit-trapping, may soon
become one of this State’s staple industries. The
Minister of Industry has been asked by the Im-
perial authorities to forward as many bunny carcases
as possible. The Produce Depot is arranging for
cold storage, and if the energetic plans of the Mini-
ster are carried out, rabbits will soon be as scarce
in S.A. as recruits.
The rumor that if the Stricklands leave N. S.
Wales the grasping Ma State may try to entice
from us the Galways is causing our angry passions to
rise. Their Exes-, are easily the most popular we’ve
had for a long time, and to popularity they add a
capacity for useful work. If Ma robs us of them
she will be no lady.
We’ve added another Imperial Service Medallist—
Thomas Clode, „ex-inspector of police, who has re-
tired from the force after 51 years’ service. The
medal was attached to his coat by his Ex. at Govern-
ment House the other morning.
The Post Office offers these figures as an excuse for
being so slow in handling local mails. For the
quarter ending December, 1914, 84 bags of mails
were sent from this State to soldiers; for the same
period, 1915, 1792 bags ; and for the same quarter,
1916, 3141 bags. The parcels sent to Billjim in the
last three months of last year were not far short of
57,000 ; and the last mail brought us 353 bags of
mail of various kinds from England. All of which is
well enough as far as it goes, but does not explain
why inter-Sfate mails should be twice as long as
usual in transit, nor why letters from one suburb
to another should so often lose themselves altogether.
Mitchell, S.M., has refused to allow a girl of 17
to be “tested” with beer in his court. She said
she had asked for beer, got it and paid for it. The
defence was that she had been supplied with a harm-
less 2 per cent, drink and didn’t know the difference.
When challenged as to - her ability to distinguish
between intoxicants and the other thing, she ex-
pressed a cheerful willingness to “have a try”; but
the S.M. would not allow that she could be an expert,
and accepted the defence without the sporting test.
The medical Laurences’ girl Beryl has
booked for matrimony with young Cecil
McAdam, the little medico who lately tried
a second innings with the English A.M.C.
The Charles Fairbairn damq, who is
hurrying Londonwards for daughter Esther’s
wedding, will find sad news awaiting her.
Second son Jim is reported missing. But as
he disappeared when flying over the enemy’s
lines there is the hope that he is alive and
a prisoner. He was fresh from Geelong
Grammar when he went off to the war.
Geelong is mourning for Mrs. Hitchcock,
widow of the late G. M. Hitchcock, one of
Geelong’s Grand Old Men. Mrs. Hitchcock
had been doing good for other people since
’65, when she first joined the local Ladies’
Benevolent Association—an institution over
which she presided from ’7l. These old-
fashioned women seemed to have found
plenty of opportunities for playing the Good
Samaritan close to their homes; the modern
fluffy doer-of-good requires a first-class trip
to England before she can play the minister-
ing fairy to handsome heroes.
In Victoria it is possible for a girl to
become a medical practitioner at an earlier
age than she can become a trained nurse. It
seemes red-tapish, especially as full-fledged
nurses are rather in demand nowadays—
rather more in demand, in fact, than the
full-fledged sawboness.
Charlie D’Ebro, our dapper architect, has
returned after an American jaunt. He
found many pleasant people and places in
his travels, and got home without snub-
nosed boots, ties like infuriated omelettes
or Yankee slang. He left his wife and
daughter Essa doing winter sports in Mon-
tana.
Bananalander Pritchard, one-time a mana-
ger of the Bank of Australasia, came back
from England brimful of yarns concerning
celebrities he met there. One story shows up
Winston Churchill’s hankering after lime-
light. At a banquet given to Hughes a
flashlight-man stepped along to immortalise
the principal performers. Australia’s little
Billy stood in the forefront. Pritchard being
somewhere on the edge. Winston, seeing a
chance, rose from his seat, and, stealthily
creeping behind the Australian, strove gently
but insistently to wedge himself in Pritch-
ard's place. At first the latter allowed him-
self to be shifted like a piece of furniture ;
then he whispered to himself: “No, hang it
all! Australia will be there !” and held his
ground so tenaciously that Winston was
unable to get even one ear into that flash-
light.
A young man who scored a great social
success in Melbourne has written a war book,
and the Toorak that fed him is simply horri-
fied at receiving a curt printed circular de-
manding that each hospitable household
“send 6s. at once” for a copy of the dashed
thing. That’s the worst of entertaining
authors; they go away and write books and
expect you to buy them.
Still one more Fancy Fair. The bowling
and tennis dames of Ivew are giving it at
the Club grounds on March 10. The Ir.M.C.A.l r .M.C.A.
War Fund will benefit.
M.L. Trade-Commissioner Manson has
gone to see that his Shivery Islands are still
in their usual place, and will return in a
month to tell us the latest gum and flax
statistics. Mrs. Mans' n is so involved in
Red Cross work here that she did not take
her usual yearly trip home.
Big stockmen Skelly and T. S. White
lately smoked over to Noumea to set in
motion the machinery of a big meat-freezing
works in which they are interested. A big
French army order will keep them going for
a bit. They crossed by the last boat and
cabled back joyfully on arrival that the
hurricane had done no damage at all to their
show 7. Mrs. Skelly trotted off in lovely
travelling duds for the three weeks' trip with
her husband; but Mrs. White shut up her
Cliveden flat and camped at the Australia in
Sydney.
The Josiah Timmses, who keep their
money in tubs at the St. Hubert’s estate in
the Melba district, have just bought Red-
bank as an extra place for their long string
of racehorses. Mrs. Josiah (she is the
fourth to wear the title) is returning to Mel-
bourne after a Maoriland gad w 7 ith a com-
plexion brilliantly touched up by the tonic
Maoriland air. The lady is to show off some
stunning frocks at the coming Autumn meet-
ings.
On his return from the Antarctic Relief
Expedition, Captain John King Davis was
seized by the Gaud Mayor and his lady, and
turned into a sea-lion bv the usual tea-and-
eake process in the presence of the Very
Naicest citizens. Ilenness.v gave him a
long and florid reference, and Bigjohn For-
rest, Admiral Cresswell, Peacock and Groom
all endorsed it. But the men who spend
their lives talking could not induce the Cap-
tain to say much in return. Davis is a red-
haired giant with a marvellously-eloqueit
way of saying nothing about his thrilling
experiences. The guests of last week were
quite petulant about it; but that didn’t opgn
the Captain’s lips. If he wants to
with these people he’d better memorise that
piece about the boy and the burning deck, -
The French Society is asking about the
pen of its aunt’s gardener at a bewildering
rate. All last year it taught soldiers, and
now the “talks” are being resumed for 1917.
The first weekly riot in French was held last
Friday at the Night Refuge—no, that’s
wrong. It was at the Oriental. Next month
the Alliance folk intend to start evening
talks, to be held on the first Monday evening
in every month.
James Iv. Borrowman, a son of the general
manager of the big Trustees, Executors arid
Agency Co., has been admitted to our Bar.
The young man, who used to be Justice
Hodges’s associate, was one of the first
Anzacs to trespass on Gallipoli. He emerged
from that misadventure with a badly-shat-
tered left arm, which later on had to be
amputated.
Various Melbourne friends have had
letters from Melba posted at San Francisco.
She is in splendid health, had a great trip
over, and hopes devoutly nothing will pre-
vent her getting back to Melbourne at sched-
ule date. She is due here in March or early
April.
Fianist St. Leger, now a soldier in Egypt,
is beginning to sit up and notice his nurse.
He has just struggled through an attack of
pneumonia.
Hugh J. Ward is in Melbourne at the
moment, seeing after his many-legged inter-
ests. He is looking young and slim, the
return to his original waistline being ex-
plained in the one word “diet.” As soon
as he can get his breath, he is off again to
New York, for there is a theatrical duel in
progress between J.C.W., Ltd., and the
Taits, and the Devil is going to singe-the
loser.
Rosie Musgrove (now Mrs. Garrick) has
been entertaining ballet-mistress Jennie
Brenan at Colombo. Jennie is now nearing
home in a P. and 0.-er, and should be hard
at work again before March is much older.
Edward Perngini will relieve his soul of a
Repertory wail on Wednesday, March 28, at
the Playhouse. Edward is worried about
the Failure of the Modern Dramatic and
Poetic Arts, and will paper the sad subject,
with a discussion to follow.
Bert Bailey is in Melbourne and out of
greasepaint for a 12 weeks’ rest. He is
spending some of the time putting his Mel-
bourne house in order and arranging the
new furnishings, which are all Australian-
made from designs sketched by his wife. The
dining-room is a dream in lapis lazuli blue,
with amber shades—fixed up by Miss. Cor-
bett, a clever little local decorator.
The pantokids gave a miniature perform-
ance of the big show on Friday afternoon to
help the Children’s Charities. It was a
delightful event carried through with great
spirit, the small mimics carefully reproduc-
ing all the airs and graces of the principals,
chorus and ballet. The imitations must
have made the originals jump. The stalls
were filled, and the dress-circle inflated itself
and reached back into the pit. The baby-
performers only misfired twice. One poor
youngster had to take a prompt, and another
little frilly creature broke plaintively on her
top note and shed mortified tears while the
chorus bleated around her. The State Gov-
ernor’s nursery handicaps were in a box,
with nurses and aides in attendance, and
every other pen was loaded with youngsters
revealing much pink leg and arm. The Very
Best mothers hovered over them fondly and
criticised the turn-out of other families as
charitably as possible.
Frank Tait, the youngest and most ener-
getic of the brethren, has had an accident in
his family. Recently his car trod on Mrs.
Frank’s toes, with the result that she has
added a stick to her means of support. The
other night she hobbled into the Taits’ show.
“Turn to the Right,” like a war-scarred
veteran of many campaigns.
The peppermint craze has got hold of
women again. Sassiety carries its pepper-
mint lozenges in little silver or gold boxes
—frivolous little trifles made heart-shaped
or round and hanging like vanity-boxes
from a chain. It is a revert to the Early
Victorian times (probably H.M. liked the
flavor ). Gilbert and Sullivan killed the
nuisance in their day by making fun of it
in “The Mikado.” Remember how the
Executioner warbles of them as “The
people who eat peppermint and puff it in
your face —oh. put them on the list.” The
round, solid lozenge of the years ago has
been reduced to fascinating little flower-
shapes daintily colored.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


mm
w
+l4
VBpii3!&
rcv v^
Vs>
#
ir
&♦>'
v<>
«&
A
If
♦:«s»>
jC
A
%+A
KvJ
SSS
i
♦;W
K»
'«s«'
*n
s*♦.
,4
♦M
W>
"//.
V*
\>
i\
%
b\
A
A
>A
V.
N
M
vSk*\
A
4
W
i i! i ;! %i
w
illiWiSf
<<
v%vv
<*■
i
i\
I
m
it
m
a
■*"
iiarar
w
x
4Z+T+
as®
*
W
.i
¥
\>
</
//
\>
V/
\V
\^>
'//
fiWWii
♦»
v»*>
M
X
•*%?
ns&Jr
ti
♦V* *l®!
s&r-i
4^
as
♦
+l4
m
414
+*
sdf
WHISKY


i
' ■
•mm
■
, m
Shaved in time
' for breakfast!
US
a
Shaving Satisiaction
begins before breakfast and lasts all day.
When you have a blade that shaves, you
can save time and save your face.
The Razor is just right—weight, balance and shaving angle;
smooth guard—doesn’t comb the beard—it shaves clean.
Penn Blades are made to shave. Each blade is seoarately
tempered, ground, honed and tested.
ENN QAFETY
with Blades
that Shave
Post free
7J6
Complete.
All Storekeepers, or
direct from
A. C. PENN, Inc.
420 George St.. SYDNEY.
Money back without
question if not satisfied.
T
ABSOLUTEtYir
King
George IV
wrasiof
»»
IheTOP-NOICH Scotch
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Frank B.” : Here’s a mosquito-bite cure.
Take a sftrall branch from a pepper tree and crush
and bruise the peppercorns between the hands. Rub
the sticky juice thus produced on the parts exposed
to the pests. I’ve tried it, and can write my name
before a J.P. as to its efficacy.
* * * *
“Stralia”: In the cold lakes district- of
Maoriland some years back the extent of the cold-
resisting qualities of eucalypts provided a standing
argument until the three months of heavy continu-
ous frosts in the vicinity of 1903 arrived and settled
all doubts, likewise all blue-gums. There were some
splendid plantations, but not a tree survived the
ordeal within the frost-stricken area. Amongst the
victims were a number, of fine specimens of the
hardwood which had been planted as far back as
half a century. Gorse hedges also perished.
“Wart”: “Stapleton” (B. 4/l/’l7) says
that when he went to school one thing firmly im-
pressed upon him was that all Australian trees
evergreen, and lie remarks that in the Northern
Territory nearly all the trees shed their leaves. If
he looks again he will find that they do not shed
anything like all their leaves. In Tasmania we have
a real deciduous tree, the, only one in Australia.
It is called locally a myrtle, but is really a deciduous
beech. One of the curiosities about it is that it is
inhabited by a parasite fungus, very similar to its
relations on the other side of the world. Like
“Stapleton,” 1 was taught a good many errors at
school—that Australian birds have no song and
Australian flowers no scent, for a couple of in-
stances. While listening to these tales, I could see
a wattle-tree outside in full bloom, with a choir of
magpies sitting in it choralling, “Lies, lies, lies.”
Even then, such is the force of authority, I did not
question what was being taught. Another tale I
learnt was that if you go down a mine shaft or a
deep well you could see the stars shining in the
daytime. I have never been able to. I suspect that
man who originated the yarn had half a brick
dropped on him from the top.
* * * *
“Jacaranda”: Re the pertinacity of
pricldy-pear (B. 7/12/’I6). Some time back I
visited Dr. Jean White at Dulacca, where she was con-
ducting experiments for the Queensland Government
as to the best way of exterminating the pest.
Anyone who considered he had found an extermina-
tor was invited to send particulars of it. One man,
as a proof of what his poison would do, sent in a
leaf from a pear clump that had been killed two
years previously. It resembled a thick piece of .
light-colored brown paper that seemed likely to
crumble to dust on the slightest encouragement. It
was hung in the doctor’s laboratory, where at most
times the fumes were strong enough to kill a Hun.
Also it was just above a Primus stove which was in
frequent use. Possibly the pear is not particular
as to the temperature of the moisture supplied to
it, and the steam from the utensils on the Primus
may have revived this particular leaf. Anyway, in*
six months’ time a green shoot appeared at the
side of it, and when I saw it a few months later the
new leaf was a good size and a blossom was forming
on its side. Dwellers in pear-infested country reckon
cremation the only remedy; but some pessimists
declare that even the ashes have phoenix-like
qualities.
* * * *
“B.A.T. Co.” : Our timber-getters’ bullocks
are suffering from what is termed blight. It mostly
a fleets only one eye, but some animals go totally
blind in both eyes. The optic at first begins to run
water, and if caught at this stage we can prevent it
with several antidotes, such as kerosene, boracic and
others ; but if the trouble isn’t found within a day
there is no hope. The eye gets a white skin which
turns red in about two weeks, or perhaps less, and a
white lump rises right on the ball of the eye. Will
an Abo. suggest something reliable?
* * * *
“Butcher”: “Tiger” (B. 8/2/T7) with
his record of a Jersey cow giving premature birth
to four bull calves doesn’t impress me. But this
did. A white York cross sow, owned by H. E.
Berry, Echunga (S.A.), has had nine litters; 12, 12,
14, 17, 18, 17, 11, 14, 17; total, 132. Having but
12 teats this useful citizen can provide refreshment
for only that number of her family at a time, so
with the larger litters the owner has hand-fed the
balance. When finished with as a breeder this sow
will provide 6001 b. of good pork. A daughter of the
lady has intentions of carrying on the good work.
She has commenced with a dozen.
POSSIBILITIES.
OLD SPORT: “ Wouldn't you like to have a
dip, Mother ?”
HIS WIFE: “Wliat! You ought to he
ashamed of yourself, Henry! Do you
leant me to look like those brazen
huzzies ?”
DEGENERATE.
VISITOR: “Is he a good boy, Jacky?”
JACKY: "No, him plurry bad, this pheller. Him the white sheep of the family .”
“Bindeii”: He’s not a full-blooded black,
but very close to it. He doesn’t drink, is a first-
class carpenter and shipwright, and will do a day’s
work with any man. He owns two decent cottages
in the town, both built by himself and bringing in
good rents. The Law nevertheless compels him and
his family (his wife is a full-blood) to liva on the
aboriginal reserve; When he isn’t working at his
trade he makes a success of a small farm. I have
heard that he put a good sum into one of the War
Loans. I can’t vouch for this, but am quite pre-
pared to believe it from what I know of him. He's
not an imaginary abo. —he can be found any time on
the Bellinger River (North Coast) ; v but it’s no use
trying to yarn to him until his day’s work is done.
“Jay-Jay”: Has any bird-fancier managed
to domesticate a lyre-bird? If so will he pass the
recipe? The bird is notoriously shy and it is
difficult to get near one, but I once saw a beauty
that was tame enough to eat food thrown to it.
By moving carefully it was possible to get within
a couple of yards of this fellow, but he was easily
scared by noise. He would come down from the
mountain at dusk and again in the early morning
and feed about the house. I have never heard of
any other of this species which would approach a
dwelling.
* * * *
“Stralia”: Maoriland is appropriately
dubbed Pig Island. And how the run-holders adjacent
to the bush love the hogs ! They do a lot of damage
at lambing time; also they appreciate the rabbit-
trappers’ efforts as they go the rounds scoffing the
catches. Two lads, born and bred in the district,
gluttons for work that has a flavor of sport, took
on a contract to thin the porkers out at two
shillings a snout. They worked with rifle,
bayonet and a few good dogs. In four weeks they
accounted for 505. There were some hair-raising
episodes during the campaign. One husky rooter
which carried the earmark of the Endeavor had a
splendid set of ivories, eacli tusk measuring 9|in.
in length, while a barrow (gelding) sported a pair
forming a perfect circle of min. Sows bearing
promise were the best contributors to the tally,
many of them carrying litters of 13 and more. Some
of the old warriors of the bush possess shields as
impervious as a steel plate, and have been known to
turn aside a bullet from a Martini, a grunt only-
being elicited from the target.
“Anne Zack” : Re “The Hum’s” para-
graph (B. 11/1/’l7) concerning a 60-year-old pear
tree of extraordinary size and enormous produc-
tivity. Let me couple with .his entry that of an
apple tree, which was some 10 or 12 years ago (and
may be still) growing on Crisp’s station at Jimen-
buan. This specimen was then credited with having
attained the age of 70 years, and was as large as
any g-umtree. The yield w ! as so enormous that it
was decided to keep a tally of one season’s produc-
tion. It amounted to 900 dozen, and the fruit was
far above the ordinary size.
“Werrimee”: This time it’s “Yendys” (B.
25/1/T7) who alleges that a couple of youths on
the North Coast killed a carpet-snake and found 63
young snakes, about six inches long and all alive,
in the body. He asks if that is a record. Let mt
ask first how the young snakes came to be where
he says they were. All the pythons are egg-layers
and all incubate their eggs. They are the only
snakes known to do so. The carpet builds a grass
nest and lays a tremendous pile of eggs, which are
stuck together in the form of a pyramid. It incu-
bates them by coiling round and round the pile,
with the head resting on top.
NO COMMAND OVER FANTODS.
FULL: “ Come on, Bill — ’av.ernuther!”
FULLER: “No ’ope, Clarence (hie). Wotcher
think I am, hey—a bloomin' (hie) snake-
charmer?"
“8.D.”: The name of Leneva, a little
place in the far north-east of Victoria, beyond
Wodonga, is a standing witness to the fact that even
members of Parliament have their moments of in-
spiration. The place used to be called Middle Creek,
but as there are about 56 other Middle Creeks in
the State, the natives decided on a change, and
asked their member to suggest a name. He forgot
all about it till he left Melbourne on the christen-
ing ceremony, and it worried him a lot. At
Avenel, a station just beyond Seymour, he happened
to look out, and then the idea came to him. He
turned Avenel the wrong end first, and gave the
result to Middle Creek, and everyone was satisfied.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE GIPSY LURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
c journey forth on the Northern road—and we
hear the Southern call!
' Vc journey East—and the Western voice is the
loudest voice of all!
The fields we vision are green, green fields, and we
follow by sun and star —
Only to find that the fields we left are greener fields
by far!
A\ e felt the lure of the Distant Place when we puled
on our mother’s knee;
I 1 or the wanderlust is in our blood—and it will not
let us be!
A call comes in from the desert grey, and the
desert beacons shine ;
We answer the call—nor dare to fail, O Gipsy folk
of mine!
And when the mirage is seen to dance on the skyline
Further West
We’ve turned again to the rising sun —for the Eastern
lands are best!
And when we’ve travelled the road half-way, the
West calls _you and me;
For the wanderlust is in our blood—and it will not
let us be!
A sweet girl writes from the far-off North where the
tropic breezes blow,
And we pack our ports in fevered haste—for it’s
North we’ve got to go.
Her eyes" are stars that ever shine, and her voice as
a siren’s is
(Oh! strain and strain, you piston-bars, and whiz,
you flywheels, whizl).
The Southern Girl is the Glory Girl, and a true,
true girl is she—•
But the Northern Girl and the Wanderlust, they will
not let us be 1
Aye, the Northern Girl is a tropic girl, and her
blood is liquid fire—
But it’s Oh again for the Southern Girl and the
red lips of desire I
l 1 or the Southern suns are magic suns, and the
breezes from the South,
When breathed by the Girl We Left Behind, are as
honey in the mouth.
So it’s churn the sea, screw-friends of ours—oh!
churn to foam the sea;
For the wanderlust is in our blood—and it will not
let us be!
The city calls to the lonesome Bush where 4he
ghostly gumtrees are ;
It calls to us who are camped beneath the strange,
strange Gipsy Star.
And the city knows our presence now with our
cheeks of toughened tan—
But our thoughts are all of the red camp-fire and
the creak of the tented van.
Aye, our longings grope for the open road and the
bed ’neath the spreading tree;
For the wanderlust is in our blood—and it will not
let us be!
A fortune lies in the Nor’-Nor’-West, where Abdul-
lah’s camels camp,
So it’s us for the luring mulga clump, and the
tank where the rovers camp.
But up from the Sou’-Sou’-East there comes a call
to us who roam,-
So it’s us again for the ship that sails for the So«’-
Sou’-East—and home !
It’s a seesaw game, but it is The Game, that holds
our hearts in fee;
For the wanderlust is in our blood—and it will not
let us be!
Last year we thought that the mountain tracks were
made for us to climb ;
But now we know the pads were meant —though we
knew it not in time.
However, the desert pad we took when we heard
the Vastness call —-
Only to learn that the mountain tracks were the
right tracks, after all!
And so we travel the whole world o’er—a restless
tribe are we ;
For the wanderlust is in our blood—and it will not
let us be!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


Hats of
Character
rr -m
Wk
at
Murdoch’s.
We take variety
for our watch-
word and assure
you of supreme
value in your
choice. Come
and choose pre-
cisely the hat
that is your hat,
or write Desk R.
We quote three
splendid values:
STETSON
VELOURS.
in the most fashionable styles
all the newest shades high-
grade hats that will appeal to
good dressers.
35/- p° st
Murdoch’s
Famous
“Itala”
Soft Felts.
Pure Fur Felts of
splendid quality, with
super finish —all the latest
styles and colorings —Slates,
Greys, Browns, Fawns and
Black.
12/11.
Postage
8d extra.
Attractive Soft Felts
in smart shapes and popular color-
ings -neatly trimmed with smart
bands and bows—dressy hats for
business wear,
9/6. Postage Bd. extra.
Murdoch’s
“ Where the Good Hats Are.”
In Park Street, Ltd.
SYDNEY.
What the “Victory” Dispensing
Machine is doing for Hotelkeepers.
i
v i
You have a desire
for a car?
A direct saving of 25 to 50 per cent, in time,
convenience and material in the delivery
of ice-cold Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Soda
Water.
Rv the aid of the “Victory” Bar Arm these
are all brought to the bar, and any quantity
can be drawn from loz. upwards.
One Barman can do absolutely the work of two
with the aid of the “Victory” Machine.
Remember, it is the only Bar Arm on the
market with the Patent Water Plush
System, which positively ensures clean
flavored drinks.
This machine has been installed by many of
the leading hotels throughout the State
with pronounced success.
It is enough proof of the efficiency of the
“Victory” Bar Dispensing Abni when
testimonials such as the following are
voluntarily sent to our firm :• —
To The Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.,
210 George Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
The “Victory” Dispenser is running
with great success; in fact, I would not
lie without it. It. is a moneymaker for
any Hotelkeeper. It has cut my cordial
bill from £2O a month to £4 a month.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ARTHUR BOLTON,
Commercial Hotel,
Lockhart, N.S.W.
We guarantee the success of this machine
by bacKing it witb a 5 years* guarantee.
You can get all particulars by sending us a postcard.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Queensland Agents : J. W. Palmer Ltd., Cork Manufacturers and Importers,
Grey Street, South Brisbane.
Adelaide: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
Perth: A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
New Zealand: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield'. & Allen Streets, Wellington.
“T WOULD like to look over
one of your cars,” you say,
'*■ as you step into the Mitchell
showroom.
Your glance, falling on the
Mitchell, tells you that here is a
car which is handsome and grace-
ful in an unusual degree.
You observe how flowing the
lines are, how they run uninter-
ruptedly from front to rear. You
notice in what perfect harmony
the parts of the car are combined.
You go to the front of the car,
and open up the bonnet. You
admire the extreme neatness of
the design of the engine, and
recognise the touch of the engi-
neering genius who builds the
Mitchell—John W. Bate. You
find unfailing magneto ignition
fitted, and a labor-saving tyre-
pump.
You inspect tlie rear axle. You find
Bate compensating cantilever rear springs
supporting the car. It becomes evident
that as in this method of suspension the
axle is affixed to the end of the springs,
instead of the middle, the wheels are
consequently enabled to follow every
inequality of the road without communi-
cating the movement to the body of the
car.
You enter the car for a trial run, and
either drive the car yourself or have it
driven for you bv one of our drivers. \ou
stretch yourself out in comfort you
appreciate the amide roominess given by
the extra-long wheelbase.
A touch to the self-starter button causes the
motor to start instantly. With the engine
running silently, powerfully, the gear lever is
moved to position, and the clutch allowed to
engage, with velvety smoothness. Ihe car
starts off, and you begin the most satisfying
motor trip of your experience.
To enable you to get some idea of the
Mitchell’s capabilities, the roughest and most
hilly road in the neighborhood is selected.
You find the Mitchell obedient to your every
wish. It quickly attains as great a racing
speed as you care to travel at, or it throttles
down to a walking pace, when required—all on
top gear.
The hills are levelled out before you—the
powerful engine makes the Mitchell mount the
steepest grades on top gear without a tremor.
You experience the delightful smoothness and
ease of travel made possible by the cantilever
springs. On the roughest roads no jolt ever
penetrates to you.
The completeness of the appointments of the
Mitchell enables you to enjoy the exhilaration
of motoring in fullest measure. You have at
hand every requirement, every convenience.
You are transported with ease, and in utmost
comfort, wherever your wish directs.
When at last the car glides back to the
showroom, the realisation comes to you that
that you have found in the Mitchell the source
of utterly complete motoring satisfaction. Yon
learn that the seven-passenger Mitchell sells
for £495, the five-passenger car for £435, and
the single-seater for £415. You decide on the
size that meets your needs, and say, as have
said hundreds of our other clients: —
"Yes, I am thoroughly pleased. The
Mitchell satisfies me completely in every
respect, and the price is indeed- moderate. It’s
clear enough to me that my family and I will
get from the Mitchell, at a moderate cost,
every delight that motoring can give. I want
to place my order for this car to-day.”
You’ll call at the Mitchell showroom at your
earliest opportunity ?
Agents for New South Wales and Queens-
land: F. H. GORDON & CO., 133-5 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. Agents for A ictoria
and Tasmania: JAS. A. MUNRO & CO.,
493-503 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Agents for South Australia: ORCHARD
RALPH & CO., Victoria Street, Adelaide.
gs
Agents for West Australia: BRADLEY and
WILLIAMS, 853-837 Hay Street, Perth.
Agents for New Zealand: North Island—
INGLIS BROS., Wellington ; South Island—
HAMLET & TENCH, 166 Tuam Street,
Christchurch.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
SAYS PHOSPHATE DOUBLES
STRENGTH AND HEALTH.
Numerous notices have appeared in the
press from time to time telling of the re-
markable benefits to be derived from the
regular use of bitro-phosphate instead of
drugs and medicines. Investigation shows
that bitro-phosphate, which is obtainable of
any good chemist, enjoys its great populai-ity
because of its peculiarly valuable property
of quickly restoring the strength and vitality
of the depleted nervous system. Neuras-
thenia, nervousness, sleeplessness and phy-
sical and mental weakness are almost in-
variaby due to a starved nervous system.
This condition can only be corrected by
supplying to the nerve centres the necessary
phosphoric food elements, the lack of which
has caused all the trouble. For this purpose
specialists almost invariably prescribe tak-
ing with each meal a tasteless 5-grain tablet
of bitro-phosphate, which, while being inex-
pensive, is undoubtedly the most remarkable
nerve-builder and restorative of health and
strength known to medical science.— Advt.
THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863
Directors:
WILLIAM DIXSON, Chairman.
Senator the Hon. Sir ALBERT J. GOULD. A. A. C. COCKS, M.L.A.
Hon. THOS. WADDELL, M.L.A. H. C. L. ANDERSON, M.A.
Acting General Manager: J. S. MARKS.
HEAD OFFICE: 166 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
45 Branches and Agencies in New South Wales. Agents in New Zealand and Fiji:
The Bank of New Zealand ; Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia : The
National Bank of Australasia Ltd.; Queensland : The Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Drafts drawn on and cable remittances made direct to Foreign Places. Letters
of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Drafts issued on San Francisco and New York in dollars or sterling.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“Salex” : A little heifer I know at Mul-
lumbimbv, in the N. S'. Wales cow country, gave
birth to three heifer calves, and they were still
living and doing well at three months old. The
mother was only a small beast of the shorthorn
breed. I reckon three live heifers beat four dead
bulls (B. 8/2/T7) any day. Especially in the
cow country.
* * * *
“Pick”: Is lightning attracted to moving
masses of sheep, or were these mere coincidences ?
At Bibbenluke (N.S.W.) shed a boy was struck in-
sensible whilst worrying some woollies to cover from
an approaching thunderstorm. At lviandra a shep-
herd was knocked down and his dog and three sheep
were killed while he was yarding the flock to escape
a coming deluge. At Woolway 25 sheep were heaped
into a singed and blackened ruin as they were crowd-
ing through a lane under a storm cloud.
■* * *■ *
“Rag”: Somebody has been cursing the
patent openers attached to tinned goods. Let him
open his encased “dog” with a strong clasp or
sheath knife. Stab the can near the rim, at the
thinnest end ; then, using the rim as a “heel” for
the back of the knife, cut right across the centre.
At right angles repeat the performance, and the four
leaves can be easily bent right back. Now let there
be peace in the camp.
* * * *
“Talord”: There’s grit in the city, too.
A few months ago I met a man in Brisbane who
had just completed a trip overland from Adelaide.
When he left the latter city he was a bloodless
shopkeeper suffering from asthma in its worst form.
The doctor gave him his choice —the open road
through the dry country with packhorses or another
road with black horses. The wreck dug up a bush-
man as mate at a weekly screw, and with four
horses—two bays, a black and a chestnut —headed
for the North. Before they got half-way the bush-
man threw in the towel and skedaddled back, taking
one of the bay horses with him. A hundred miles
further on the chestnut lost heart and turned up his
sand-cracked hooves. The city man took what he
could of the pack and pushed on. Five months
later a big brown man with full red blood cor-
puscles under his skin and a yard of whiskers on
his face straggled into Brisbane leading a weary
packhorse—the black. The asthma was dropped
somewhere on the journey.
* * * *
“W.J.R.”: Did Spencer and Gillen, or
any other seeker after aboriginal customs, speak of
the blacks having a dumb language? Two bucks or
gins (gins for preference) can talk for an hour with
their hands. When a buck dies a ban may be put on
his gin, and she is not allowed to talk, so she has
to resort to signs, maybe for years. I saw a gin at
Banka Banka station (N.T.) that Tom Nugent, the
owner, told me had not spoken, to his knowledge,
for eight years. Another, at Powell’s Creek, could
speak only in a whisper. She had been too long-
silent. The telegraph-operator gave the chief or
head medicine-man a couple of pounds of tobacco
to take the ban off. He wanted her to work at the
station. The gins are as quick as lightning, and
will “do” a sentence while you wink. Any of the
old hands from Alice Springs up can vouch for this.
AT THE PICNIC.
S HE: “If yer wuz ’arf a bloke you’d put yer arm round me waist, an’ take me fer a
stroll like the others.”
HE: “Well, strike me blue, I never seen such a tart! I ain’t yer bloomin’ bloke now.
I’m yer blanky ’usband!”
THE OBVIOUS SOLUTION.
THE TEACHER: “Why were the ancient Jewish cities of the plain destroyed by fire?”
THE SMART LAD: “Please, Miss, to get the insurance, Miss.”
“J.D.C.”: The small boy ran clown the
bush-track and caught up to old-man Jobson. “Hey,
Mr. Jobson!” he yelled excitedly, “yer hut’s on
fire!” “’Struth!” muttered the disgusted ancient.
“My luck’s stiff. I was just goin’ over to yer dad’s
to borrer a match.”
* * * *
“Marloo”: What’s the age'of the oldest
sheep? E. C. Milson, of Spring Vale (N.S.W.),
owns one which has trodden pasture for 22 years.
Last year she yielded 51b. of first-class wool, but
gave up the breeding habit- three years ago.
“Musketoon”: With the morning bacon
at such a high figure a sow belonging to Bob Ellis,
of Grenfell (N.S.W.), is going the right way towards
paying for her keep. In four litters she has brought
forth 55 young porkers. The first two lots numbered
13 each, the third consignment totalled 14, and,
just to show it was no fluke, she brought -to light
a family of 15 a few days ago. Most of the young-
sters were disposed of at £1 a head.
* * * #
“Tiger”: To keep mosquitoes off “New
Chum” (B. l/2/’l7) should give carbolic acid a
trial. Place a saucer of it under the bed and another
on the verandah, and the insects will pass on in
disglust. It is also very good for keeping flies,
animals and babies out of the house. In fact, about
the only thing it won’t keep down is the cost of
living.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: Venomous snakes, the black
snake (he of the carmine belly) in particular,
show a strong predilection for eel meat, but won’t
touch dead eels, nor, I think, any carrion. Saw
a black snake swim round and round a dam snap-
ping at small eels while another improved the
shining hour by carrying off a semi-defunct eel
which had been lying on the bank. Snakes are, of
course, cannibals, and many insects, too, are in-
cluded in their menu. I have watched a black
crawler in a patch of long grass striking at moths
and black crickets, the only insects which could
be found there at the time. By the way, when a
snake strikes, the distance between striker and
strikee is covered in a flash, and the reptile never
misses its mark,
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The fox’s friends who con-
tended that the beast did more good in killing
rabbits than harm in killing lambs are beginning to
find him out. Where lamb cutlets are available he
treats bunny-meat with disdain. In any case he is
a born hunter and a worse pest than the dingo.
Whereas Warrigal kills only for food, Reynard con-
tinues to kill for mere sport after he has satisfied
his hunger. The fox came to Australia with a repu-
tation for cunning, but he is not nearly as cunning
as the dingo. He has been lured within gunshot at
night by men imitating his own dismal yelp, he
has been caught in traps in a manner that would
make a dingo smile, and he is comparatively easy to
poison. He was imported to Victoria by a gentle-
man sport, who wished to renew in his adopted coun-
try the delights of the chase with fox and ’ounds. A
batch of six was brought out in Money Wigram’s
ship Yorkshire, which arrived in September, 1865.
Now Australia has to pay the fare, and it knocks
all the sporty romance out of the stinking brute.
“New” : This is what knocked our store-
keeper bandy:—
Plees send by the van 1 bag flour 1 bag shuger as
I can not come down with the cart as my wife had
a baby last nite and 2 coils of barb wire and a wash
tub.
Yours truley .
“Melos”: Combo, a full-blooded abo.,
was striking at a country smithy when he planted
his old bare foot on a piece of red-hot iron, which
had fallen from the anvil unnoticed. An odor like
scorched devils began to steal through the place
and mystify all present. There was quite a long
discussion about it before Combo, raising a huge
hoof, remarked cheerfully, “By Cripes, I thinkit 1
bin closest that feller smell!” If we all had corns
like that the high price of boots wouldn’t worry us.
“Leoceli”: Can any marine Abo. oblige
our camp with a nice quiet whale with healthy
intestines? I am the Jonah, and our party is
getting nervous. No metropolitan editorial chairs
being vacant, I struck out freelancing in the
Bush. I did one week’s timber-cutting—then I left
with £3, lacerated hands and an evil reputation.
One of the horses died in harness the day before I
left, one dog picked up poison, a small terrier raced
a rabbit into a trap and beat him, and an axeman
mistook his foot for a tree-trunk. _ A friend gave me
a lift further up the river on his motor-cycle. He
hit a stump, smashed his machine, ruined his suit,
gashed a leg and fractured a wrist. I was not hurt.
The first day in my next camp our horses bolted,
smashed the buggy and dropped the driver in the
swamp. I had just stepped to terra firma when the
paper fluttered past the leader’s nose. Three day-
later they bolted again, but a fence stopped them.
This time we all kept our seats, and a mallee pole
and some fencing-wire put us right. That evening
one of our paddles broke in midstream. The camp
cat died the next morning, and a few nights later
our cook didn’t know it wits loaded, and one of our
party is now at the Adelaide Hospital with a bullet
in his neck. Now will you send that whale!
* * #
“Jay-Jay” : A sea-snake similar to
“Eryandcr’s” (B. 8/2/T7) was found alive at Mere-
wether Beach (N.S.W.) recently. It was killed in
shallow water. These reptiles are not indigenous, so
surfers need not carry a waddy. They belong to
tropical waters, and their rare and involuntary visits
to these shores &re due to the action of currents.
* 4 *- If- #
“Creinorne”: The Scientific American
explains the whyness of a whip's cracking (3/4/’15):
Professor C. V. Boys says that it has to do with
the fact that, owing to the action of centrifugal ami
other forces, the speed at which the whip travels
through the air is greater and greater throughout its
length, and so great at the end that it comes up to
the velocity of sound.
The theory that appeals to me most is that “arrested
motion always causes sound.” But why arrested
motion causes sounds I don’t know. I wish I did.
* * * *
“The lieefer”: Being short of water I
ran the ketch into Johnny-the-German's (Papua),
and he persuaded me that 40 bags of maize he'd just
gathered would be a good spec, at 10 bob a bag.
On- arrival at port I left the grain with an agent,
and when I got back three weeks later he’d sold
20 bags at a quid apiece, thus squaring me and
leaving the other 20 for profit. On inspection, how-
ever, 1 discovered that weevils had eaten every grain
of-maize, leaving only the husks. The heaviest of
the bags, though as fat looking as ever, weighed
only seven pounds. I called in at German Johnny s
next trip to deliver a curse in lieu of a repeat order.
He was disgusted. “Ach,” he gurgled, “you vas
vool. Vot for you not poot ze old iron in ze bag?
S’pose ze ol’ iron in ze corn, ze verdamt weevil no
he come.” Was he telling the truth?
HARDENED TO IT.
FIRST BILLZAC ( seven times wounded by
shrapnel): “Gettin’ 'it’s nothin’; it’s the
blanky row trot gets on a bloke’s
nerves!”
SECOND B.: "Swim out, ole dear! You
should have ridden a motor-bike when
you wuz at ’ome, like me!”


Perfect satisfaction
—a sense of infinite /
joy—a feeling of
deep content. All of
these joys and more
maybe yours to-day.
You will find them
wrapped up in every
State Express Cigar-
ette waiting to be
unfolded by you at
your leisure.
5t$TE (hpress
CIGARETTES
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
10 for 6d.
Standard Weight NOT LESS than 10 for Sixpence
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia*
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
/
r
I
in" 1 :,
\ U
m
■ i'
"it
P
m
J*
4tC.
4
s
\
/
/
m
m


ANOTHER CASE OF NERVES
And Another Triumph for
V
Miss Kemp on her favorite Jumper, “Nerve Nuts”
The Modern Australian Remedy for HEADACHES, BACKACHE, DIZZINESS, INSOMNIA, HYSTERIA, DYSPEPSIA,
AN/EMIA, DEPRESSION, BRAIN FAC, AND OTHER NEURASTHENIC CONDITIONS.
Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
Experience of Miss Kemp
The World’s Greatest Horsewoman.
Was Afraid of Her Own Shadow.
Now delights in Riding Equine Outlaws.
A remarkable case of a woman’s transformation from a bundle of
nerves to a human packet of indomitable courage and endurance is that of
Miss Kemp, the famous lady rider of buckjumpers and hurdlers, the story
of whose recovery is convincingly told by herself in the following letter: —
Mr. (1. W. Mean, Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
Dear Sir.—l have much pleasure in tolling you of the wonderful benefit
I have derived from the use of lIEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS. Some
seven months ago I was in such a nervous condition that I dreaded coming
in contact with the average horse, and the least surprise or excitement
would bring on palpitation of the heart, and cause me to tremble from head
to foot. Because of the great good Professor Kemp had derived from the use of
lIEAN’S ESSENCE, after an attack of bronchial pneumonia, I decided to
try DEAN’S TONIC NUTS for my nerves, feeling sure that you would
not have placed on the market a nerve preparation that was not equal in
merit for its special purpose as your DEAN’S ESSENCE is for chest
troubles. I am delighted to be able to say that my best expectations have
been fulfilled, for, after having used about half a dozen bottles of DEAN S
TONIC NERVE NUTS, I am enabled to return to my old calling, riding
jumpers and buckjumpers, and, instead of being afraid of my own shadow,
so to'speak, I look forward w T ith pleasure to a tussle with the most despeiate
equine outlaw that anyone can bring me. As an expression of my S iatl
tude, I propose, with your permission, naming one of my favorite jumpers
“Nerve Nuts,” and I am sure he will become as great a favorite with t ‘
public as is the remedy after which I am naming him. I remain, joins
faithfully, MARY KEMP.
Hundreds of other users of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS tell
of similar good results, after using a few boxes of these efficient
nerve nourishers.
Besides being effective health-builders, HEAN’S TONIC NER\ E
NUTS are very economical. A box containing twelve days’ treat-
ment costs only 3/-, or six boxes for 17/3: smaller size, containing
six days’ treatment, 2/- per box, or six for 11/3. If they are not
stocked by your chemist or store, send direct to the Manufacturer,
G. W. HEAN, CHEMIST, 178 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY;
Box 531 G.P.0., Melbourne; Box 131 G.P.0., Brisbane; Box 302
Adelaide; or Box 97 Fremantle.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Itan” : This time last year many N.S.W.
dairy-farmers were getting out of the busi-
ness because the fixed butter rates were too
low. Those who quitted now leap in the air
when they hear of the monthly cheque run-
ning into nearly £3 per cow, There has never
been such prosperity—on the N. S. Wales
North Cowst, at any rate. And there are
other changes. Only a few years ago the
poddy calf was annihilated the day he
arrived, as it did not pay to bother with
him. Stock were cheap, and it paid better to
give the skim milk to the pigs. Now the
poddy is treated like a young racehorse.
Plenty of feed and the unprecedented value
of live stock are the causes. On the North
Cowst the cheques that one sees flashed on
a Saturday morning are reminiscent of a
Spring meeting at Randwick. Another effect
of the boom is the change to heavier types of
cattle. It would make the stock-lover almost
weep to see how the silk-coated little Jerseys
are sacrificed. Studs which have- taken
years to build up are being cleared of the
Channel Islanders. Beef is a consideration
now. If the heavyweights won’t turn out
cream they at least sell well to the butcher.
“0.K.N.M.”: “Murkah” and I have a
different opinion of “the average telegraphist. ’
He says this chap “would receive a wire
announcing the death of the Kaiser, and be
as astonished, as- the next reader when he
saw it in the papers next day” (B.
15/2/Y7). I “open my key” to growl “No!”
Two things make an operator take stuff with
his head as well as with his hand. First the
receiver is completely at the mercy of the
sender; what is dictated must go down. The
receiver, therefore, in self-protection, has to
he alert for apparent blunders; so, from the
jump, he gets after the senee of the message.
Once ' he catches it. anything vague or
doubtful is questioned. This is a duty to
the Department, which expects that much
vigilance. Then there is pride of craft. Let
a man pass on a message with a. word short,
a word over, or with any plain discrepancy
whatever (I speak now of central offices),
and it comes back to him with a green query
label attached; and that means a wave of
humiliation if the man is worth his ralt.
* -X- * *
“Rustler”: “Murkah’s” justifiable wail
(B. 15/2/’l7) about the wretched lighting of
Sydney railway carriages shows that he
hasn’t had much to do with accumulators
when he states that all the attention needed
is a drop of water in the accumulators occa-
sionally. As the speed of a train varies a
lot, elaborate arrangements would have to
be made to automatically cut out the cells
when the train reached a certain whiz, in
order to prevent an excessive charging cur-
rent ruining the' accumulators. Again,
accumulators are not made to stand so much
jolting (except a kind recently invented by
Edison), and would be useless in a very short
time. Then there is the big item of in-
creased weight to be considered. The idea
was tried on a Melbourne cable tram, but
was abandoned on account of the expense,
although the brilliantly-lighted car was a
great novelty in the city. Of course, the
idea is quite feasible; but you can’t do it all
with “Murkah’s” drop of distilled water.
About a young man and a co. that isn’t as
foolish as some folk used to think it was:—
The Yiti Co. continues to play its drama to
an interested house, with Apolosi back in the lead.
The Yitj (Fiji) Co. was formed three years ago
by a number of Fijians and some whites to compete
with all-comers in the banana and- other indus-
tries. At'its head was Apolosi—a young Fijian who
speaks English and generally knows how many yams
make a quart. What he didn’t know earlier in his
business career was that some white directors don’t
like money to vanish without leaving some explana-
tion of its vanishment. This ignorance led to Apolosi
retiring' for 18 months. Now he is back, and the
Yiti Co.’s trade rivals have no special reason to
rejoice. For the co. —it is registered with a capital
of £lO,OOO and about 3000 shareholders —has,
despite many initial errors, stubbornly pushed its
way past the laughing-stock stage, and now threatens
to become a serious proposition for the white trader
to figure on.
When Apolosi returned from his vacation he signi-
fied his arrival by an introductory letter to the
local papers: “To all the inhabitants of the colony
of Fiji. Sirs, —This is my letter of confession,
which I wish you all to be acquainted with before
I commence my business: (1) I shall love all my
brethren. (2) I shall honor all the chiefs. (3) I
will honor the King through all his subjects. (4) I
will fear the Lord our God. The foregoing is the
foundation of my work at the present time.
(Signed) Apolosi, R. Nawai, Suva, Oct. 10, 1916.”
It was a genial, brotherly scrap of literature, but it
set the Western Pacific Herald ruminating very
seriously: “Apolosi wields a tremendous influence
over the Fijians, which is most unaccountable.
White men who know the Fijian thoroughly, who
have lived here for many years, reason with them in
vain.... The natives appear to have thrown over the
power of the chiefs, and are abiding by the direction
of Apolosi, who is a commoner.”
Last December a big meeting of natives, held at
Lutu, discussed the situation and decided on strike,
i.c., they resolved to withhold banana-supplies from
the white buyer until they got a bigger price than
formerly. Apolosi gently broke the news through
the papers: “Gentlemen, banana buyers, please excuse
the foolishness and ignorance of the natives of Fiji
in regard to their disputing on some occasions of
banana buying. If any of you is inconvenienced by
anything, let him come to the office of the Yiti
Company, as it is not my desire to inconvenience
any trading gentleman. Also l do not desire that
you shall make any charges about me unjustly.”
Having thus saluted his adversaries Apolosi un-
masked his battery: “The prices during the period
from January to December, 1917, are as follows:
January to April, 2s. 6d. per case and Is. 6d. per
bunch. May to August, 3s. per case and Is. 9d. per
bunch. September to December, 3s. 6d. per case and
2s. per bunch.” The buyers jibbed for a while, but
as many of them had already contracted for steamer
space, they knuckled under and tried to look cheer-
ful.
Meantime, since the new prices are equivalent to
an increased duty on the imported banana, Aus-
tralian planters needn’t be down-hearted about the
arrival of Apolosi.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Honey is used in boot-blacking
of the old-fashioned kind. One of the first
lots exported from Victoria was snapped up
in London by the makers of leather polish.
So the little busy bee improves the shining
hour in more ways than one.
* + * *
The N. S. Wales Full Court, beiiig asked
to consider a verdict, given by a lower court,
drew the line very distinctly between
chemists who may "dispense” and those who
may not. Anybody may throw some colored
bottles, tooth-brushes and infants’ comforters
into a window and call himself a chemist,
but he has to be registered under the Phar-
macy Act before he can legally “dispense”
medicine. In the case for review the appel-
lant claimed that he had made no represen-
tations as to his qualifications, but, knowing
the ingredients of a prescription presented by
a customer (who happened to be an inspector
under the Act), had merely poured them into
a bottle. It was admitted that the prescrip-
tion was correctly followed ; but the Full
Court held that the mere act of composing
the recipe amounted to the pretence com-
plained about, and the uncertificated dis-
penser went down plunk.
“X.Y.”: Mention of the cedar trade by
"‘D.F.” (B. 1/2/M7) stirs up regret that
the romance of the industry in Australia has
never been written. Some years ago I
found, in Chambers’s Journal, an article
written by a cedar-getter in the late 30’s, or
very early 40’s, of last century; but he dealt
merely with the business aspect, and did not
seem to realise that he and his mates were
the advance agents of civilisation. ‘•D.F.”
is correct in saying that red cedar
was the principal export in the early days:
it was, in fact, the only export for many
years. Naturally the Hawkesbury Valley
(N.S.W.) was the first area exploited, and
from that district, encouraged by the early
establishment of shipbuilding at Brisbane
Water, cedar-hunters explored the coastal
rivers north and south of Sydney. As the
trade extended the men engaged in it became
expert not only with the axe. but with ship-
and boat-building tools. They evolved and
developed a splendid style of whaleboat, no
doubt because many of the workers were
sailors and ship-carpenters. Incidentally,
they were not men who drank each other’s
health in cold water when grog could be had.
One of the old hands told me that the
monthly supplies of his party included £7O
to £lOO worth of spirits. Of all the North-
ern rivers the Manning was the best suited
to the requirements of the cedar-getter, and
Scott’s Creek was the main depot. Thdugh
the cedar trade is long dead, Scott’s Creek
is still a great export centre, for, with the
exception of the Byron Bay giant, it has
the most extensive butter factory in Aus-
tralia.
A DREAM OF PARADISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wowser dreamed of Paradise,
And he and all his kin were there:
It was no isle of myrrh and spice,
Nor yet a- harps-of-gold affair,
But just a city cleansed of mirth
And rooted in a purer earth.
There were no saints with waving palms,
No seraphs clad from neck to knee
(lie had no soul for music’s charms,
No love for scanty drapery) ;
Seraphs and saints there were, indeed,
But warmly clad in modest tweed.
The bard no longer hawked his wares,
All art and sculpture was taboo
(Except for busts of recent mayors) ;
The theatres and “pictures,” too,
Were nightly filled from eight till ten
With services for business men.
There were no races going on,
No drinks but ginger-beer or tea,
No bathing in the surf (for John,
Who promised there’d be no more sea,
Had merely meant, in plainer speech,
No mermaids lounging on the beach).
Of course the parks were closed at night,
And every space the town could boast
Was flooded with electric light,
Ten bulbs to every tree or post ;
And lest young lovers still might pass,
Barbed wire lay hidden in the grass.
But there were gayer moods and hours.
Suburban seraphs plied the rake
And raised celestial cauliflowers,
Or took walks for their livers’ sake;
And whiskered saints in sporting clothes
Grew heated over dominoes.
The wowser woke —but did he wake?
The town lay stretched before his eyes,
lie fancied there was some mistake!
It seemed so like the Paradise
He’d found beyond the gates of Horn,
This Melbourne on a Sunday morn.
VICTORIA.
V. P.
THE HYDROPHOBIC CURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Metrop. Board of Health has just
announced its almost unanimous conclusion that all
milkmen are dishonest. The experiences of the
Board teach it. that there are only two classes of
milkmen, those who water their milk and are found
out, and those who water their milk and are not
found out.
The milk-o is a wicked man ;
lie goetli hot in awe,
But sets himself to plot and plan
How he may break the law'.
Strange ’tis to those who hold indeed
The word and letter of the creed,
That Heaven opes to help this man
Perfect his every evil plan.
The rain it raineth every day
And milk-o’s scheme is blessed.
He takes the can lid off, they say,
And Heaven does the rest._
Me sells you water on the side,
And holds his action justified,
For cleanliness (so runs the text)
To perfect godliness is next.
To turn him from his practice wrong
We’ve failed. Assured are we
Since' strong is the disorder, strong
The remedy must be.
Who his milk waters on the sly
Let him be seized and bitten by
Mad dogs. Then draw his teeth, and get
The only perfect milkman yet!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


:
e -._ - 6
C
LSI
■ .
• :
f
2
■
■A
. v
z
B.T.H
I Ta
Bl!
EFFICIENT!
BRILLIANT!
DURABLE!
The Light that Will Not Fail
9
*
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
city 3!i0 , (5 N ifnes). Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE <Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Etd..
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Etd.. Hay Street.
—Agents -
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
\DEL,AIDE (S.A.) : IJnbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
Tullock & Co.. Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
TASMANIA: Lindsay


A. Saunders’ Morocco
Leather Motor Bag, newest
style, double handles, 15/6.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6,
20/-, 25/-
THESE GOODS
POSTED FREE.
1
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Dressing
Case fitted with necessary conveniences.
Morocco Leather Case, 30/-; ditto, lady’s,
30/-. Other styles., 12/6, 17/6, 21/-,
25/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Real
Ebony Hair
$ Brush, finest-quality
Bristles, 10/(i.
v' Other designs, 13/0,
' 15/0, 20/-, 25/-
Write for
Illustrated
Catalog—
Post Free.
USEFUL GIFTS
c-TO
I
A. Saunders’ Gent.’ s Military Brush Set,
real Ebony and best-duality Bristles; 2 Hair Biushe>,
1 Cloth, 1 Hat Brush and Comh. In Morocco Case,
25/-
A. Saunders’ Smoker’s Set, comprising highly-polished,
Brass-mounted Tobacco Jar, Pipe Holder, Match Holder and Ash
Tray, Crystal Glass, 25/-. Copper-mounted, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Meat Carvers, selected Stag Handles,
hand-forged Sheffield Silver-steel Blade, in Velvet-lined Case, 30/-
Other styles, 13/6, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-15 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’
Cloth Brush,
Nickel Silver,
richly embossed,
“Empire” design,
best-quality
Bristles, 10/6.
Write for
Illustrated
Catalog—
Post Free.
A. Saunders’ Writing Folio, straight-grain
Leather, fitted with every convenience, 20/-
Other styles, 12/6, 15/6, 25/-, 30/-
A. Saun,clers’ Gent.’s Pocket-
book, ieal Morocco Leather, Silver
Corners anti Lock, fitted with Book and
Pencil, 25/-. Others, 8/6, 10/6,
15/6, 20/-
A. Saunders’
Polished Oak, best
Cigar and Cigarette Cabinet,
Nickel Mounts, with partition for Cigars
and Cigarettes, 25/-
0
&
382
m
y*
Can
Stop that Husky Croak!
EVANS'
UntisepticTH ROAT
Pastilles
Sore Throats quickly
yield to treatment which
removes the cause by killing
the germ.
Evans, Sons, Lescher & Webb, Ltd. London.
SE
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
r
k
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK of KATI'TSK and illustrated
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over oO
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrib
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, I/- posted. Du.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1 /•» post,
flow to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
Look by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, .1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. \ en-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter 1/- posted. Ilow to Strengthen the
Memory. 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). -Toys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Iricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling ry Cards,
1/6 Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/6. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illps., 1/-. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide) price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Hod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor. Bd. Britain for the British,
8d How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups. 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/. posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m.
■
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning- marriage, which makes it a yerv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition- just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete,, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
Prop. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks-’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
i/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/8 That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 11-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator. 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How_ McDougall
Topped the Score., & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be tooled into paying more.
Compare liiy prices with others ancTsave
your cash. -o Years.
ONLY A SMALL VI)LA* O F MY STOCK CAN
lit GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OK
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SEM.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
X/. posted. New Tricks with Caros, 1/- Sappho
genuine, 1/3. Ot.n Bush * Songs. 1/3 post. Git
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illu~
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gou
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His
tor'y Court of England, 1/6 .post. Lovers' Letter
Writer. 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Sd posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Mores,
Bd’. 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a M'ife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
\ssistant. 1/6. The M'ife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s M'orks, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Hesita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing. 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors. 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
rnmmete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
PaTne, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Ohea.p Book Depot,
67 § 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


■A
k
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
when yourvitality is lower-
ed —when you feel “any-how”
—when your nerves are “on
edge”—when the least exer-
tion tires you —you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a “run-down’’
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-told
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
'INCAAMS
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The beneiit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can fee l' it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘Wincarnis’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COI.EMAN & CO., Ltd., W ncarms
Works, Norwich. You can buy
< Wincarnis ’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4 - and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct to
Sole Distributing Agents Fassett
& Johnson, 233, Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McIN'IOSH.
1* IVO T, T THEATIIE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
“jriVOLl THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE PASSING SHOW.
SYDNEY JAMES. MADELINE ROSSITER. GWEN
LEWIS. W. G. DESMOND, GEORGE GRAYSTONE,
CONNIE MILNE and WINIFRED LEVIERE.
Also FRANK MARKLEY, JACK QUINLAN and
LADY SEN MEI.
Plan at Glen’s.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY, including
FLORENCE YOUNG, in the London and New York
Brilliant Success,
THE PINK LADY.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
P ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT'S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
VERY GOOD KDDIE.
BARRY LUPINO as “EDDIE.”
Smartest and Brightest of Musical Comedy Successes.
NLY TWO YVORDS—BUT WHAT READ
JOY.
Wil IT E C 1 T Y
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
ltnyswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE SMART SET
(from LONDON).
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
▼VVVY
X
Triangle plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices : 6d. to 2s. fid.
Union” Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer's Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miij.kr, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydnev until you've visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
Tn GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.tn
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miluku, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 10.
Reappearance of .T. 0. Williamson’s New English
Musical Comedy Co. in
A WAL ! Z PR ISAM.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
H
T 2
mm
□d__
1 • 1
aSaasaifSi
PI
L^&J
«r
■
II
■X
■
§
'■:■?.
MflL- 1 - fe«l I
II ■
its
Je\ h
_J-
,vzr-,*K
Did you ever clean a window this way?
It is the quick and easy way —
with Bon Ami. You just take
a cake of Bon Ami, rub it with
a wet cloth to get a white foamy
lather, apply this lather on the
glass and let it dry a minute,
then wipe it off again with a
dry cloth. The Bon Ami comes
off in the form of a dry, soft
powder* bringing all the dirt and
grime with it, leaving the clearest,
cleanest window you ever saw.
Bon Ami looks like a scouring
soap but the mineral is much
softer and finer. It will not
scratch the finest glassor polished
metal.
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.
Ain usements.
II EAT RE It OYA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
TWICE DAILY, AT 2 AND S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the epoch-
making Picture Spectacle;
INTOLERANCE.
Prices: 3/-, 2 - and 1/-.
PRINCESS’S Til EAT li E. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN .1. FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. MARCH 10.
Reappearance'of Gonsalez Opera Co. in
IL TROVATOKE.
MONDAY, MARCH 12, LUCIA ; TUESDAY, CAY-
ALLERIA and PAGLIACCI; WEDNESDAY. TROVA-
TORE, (Matinee) TRAVIATA; THURSDAY,
FAUST; FRIDAY, BOIIEME.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-,
KING’S THEATRE, SI EL B OCRS E.
Lessees. . . .Messrs. BAILEY GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
For the First Time in Australia.
.T ,V N T\IT’S NEW COMEDY COMPANY in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A Play of Mirth and Morals
by Winchell Smith and .lohn E. Hazzard.
Box Plan Allan’s.
Amusements.
The finest show at st. kieda,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, 8.30.'
DANDIES,
BEST COMEDIANS. BEOT SINGING.
The Prices, like the Dandies, are Popular. .
ym; AUDITORIUM, M ELBOUR tN E.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY. ,
2.30 and 8.15 p.in.
William Fox presents the International Favorite,
THEDA BARA, in Sliakspeare’s Immortal Love
Tragedy,
ROMEO AND JULIET.
Plan at Allan’s.
XHEN .E U M 11 AL U, MELBOURNE.
. EVERY EVENING.
M ALIM,
THE COURT MAGICIAN, AND CO.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/- (No Amusement Tax).
Box Plan at Allan's. Herbert Linden, Rep.
Off to a Good Start!
THIS remarkable photograph was sent us by a dentist who has used Dr. Lyon’s
products for years and recommends them enthusiastically to his patients. In
his letter he said: "Athletes all over the country are using Dr. Lyon’s.” In the race
for success there is no more dependable training direction than this: visit your
dentist twice a year —and morning, noon and night use
°HEP^
Por<y<vtr>sii's
& Boauiifvinß
THE TEIvTH
AND
THE Df*CAVij\
\mc e
ci >>\vs.
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
Use both. Dr. Lyon’s Dental Cream is efficient— Dr. Lyon s Tooth
Powder is a super-cleanser. The use of both dentifrices ensures one
hundred per cent results.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S.W.
NIGHT-IN THE COUNTRY
often hangs heavily because neighbors are distant and entertainment
difficult to provide.
Have you ever thought of the good fun and good music you could
enjoy with
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
K
yKavers u
INSTRUMENTS
.—the most versatile of all entertainers?
The portable, hornless model (“Austral No. 3”) is a splen-
did instrument. It is made of polished quartered oak,
with nickel-plated fittings.
Its tone is pure and clear
nothing harsh or tinny about
it.
The price is £ll
To get the best results use
“His Master’s Voice” records
with “His Master’s Voice”
instruments.
Any dealer will play them
for you.
Instrument catalogue, record
lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
The “AUSTRAL” No, 3, £ll.
»« GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. Bv using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetie
Works, Leicester, England. [1
HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 31 to 6.
WILLIAM POX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
Phone City 621 S and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/- ;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 3/6.
*
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
EJECTED COMPLETE PNYIV/iEPEx
SEND FOQ
CATALOGUE
69 DES/ONS AND
SEUAL /NEOENANON
l A tW
w
*»'>>
•*&
prr?
T/i/S dUNC/ALOW, No. S3. Des/pn , confe/n/ngr 4/a r&e
rooms, 7ft (/era ncfa/is. fat/nc/ry & 6aft?, erectect & pa/nfect
for j£35Z 3onaF/de
fiuz/c/ens on/y employed.
faaffMm sso/? ltd
T/MBEJ2 M£/2C//ANrS, &EDFEJ2/Y.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Everybody else Avas ready, too, and when
someone said “Fire” it all happened in 24sec.
“Is silk a luxury?” asks the Age. Per-
haps it isn’t. And neither Avill sackcloth
be presently.
S. M. Herald Parliamentary report,
showing how the “National” Parliament
values its own honor:—
Mr. Tudor, leader of the Opposition, said he
would state definitely that Senator AVatson had
been offered money to retire or to support the Gov-
ernment. He would welcome the Prime Minister’s
uffer both of a Royal Commission to inquire into
Die definite charge, and also , for an election.
Mr. Tudor’s motion, that the statement made in
another place relating to attempted bribery and
corruption, lie referred to a Royal Commission,
preferably of the High Court of Australia, was
negatived by 35 votes to 18.
And it is that sort of Parliament which it
is proposed to saddle upon Australia till the
end of the war!
OPTIMISM.
SHE: “Isn't that Mr. Smith-Jones?”
CHOLLY : “Yes, the old bounder's always
trying to — er—get me to enlist, and that
soft of bally not. Awful bore, isn't he?”
SHE: “Bore! Worse than that! He must
be a confirmed optimist.”
Labor in N. S. Wales is going to fight the
coming elections on the Conscription issue.
Very well. But if Holman’s crowd Avins
does Storey’s party propose to accept the
verdict and turn to for universal service?
Speak up!
Hughes’s talk of “prohibiting the importa-
tion of luxuries’.' such as motor-cars is his
usual “win the war” hot-air. These goods
can be manufactured here; and tyres and
other accessories are actually turned out in
the Commonwealth by the thousand. Does
Hughes propose to prohibit their manufac-
ture, too? If not, then to prohibit their im-
portation will be to absolutely reserve the
Australian market for Australian manufac-
turers. That would be equivalent to a
million per cent. Customs duty, imposed
under the very worst condition possible—the
condition of insecurity ; the condition under
which a high tariff yields all its disadvan-
tages but none or practically none of its
benefits.
Thus anti-eonscriptionist Brookfield,
M.L.A. for Broken Ilill, orating in Sydney
about the war and other things:—
There should be equality of sacrifice. Every man
should be obliged to give all of his income over
£2OO a year to the war funds free of interest. I
will make one, and if that would not be found
sufficient 1 would let them take another £lOO. But,'
for Heaven’s sake, let. there be equality of sacrifice
all round.
Good old hot-air! The only obstacle in the
way of Brookfield giving his cash to the
nation is—Brookfield. Under the voluntary
system Australia gets from him—nothing!
But it gets from Billjim his life. Now what
has Brookfield to say about “equality of
sacrifice” ?
One of the window-fastenings at Victoria
Barracks in Melbourne was damaged twoj
■ months ago, whereupon the staff clerk applied
to the engineer’s branch for a new window-
catch. Instead of sending a bloke with a
brass-fitting and a screw-driver to do the job
in five minutes, the branch sent an officer
who inspected the damage and advised a
written application. The result of this docu-
ment was a visit from another officer. The
matter then went into recess for some weeks,
at the end of which time the -engineer’s
branch instructed the Gommonwealth World
Department to repair the. .daiifage. Thus are
we winning the Avar. The bill will Conte in
presently.
N.S.W. Deputy-Labor-leader Dooley
They were being fought in this fight in the old
way: being treated to the same old cries as in years
gone by. Years ago it,was Freetrader' and Protec-
tion. But the people found out, that they wanted
neither ; they wanted the wealth they produced.
So the iron and steel industry of Dooley’s
district doesn’t want Protection. What the
people want is “the wealth they produce.”
Precisely how much wealth Dooley thinks
the iron and steel industry would produce if
it wasn’t protected he doesn't mention.
Dooley’s idea is that the soft lightweight
infant assistant at the tape counter should
be put in the ring Avith Darcy. “Now, there’s
a £5O purse for this,” says Dooley. “You’ll
get all that £5O if you knock Darcy out.”
Dreadful things begin to happen in N. S.
Wales now that there is a Government in
office which doesn’t play man Friday to the
rebellious unions’ Robinson Crusoe. Actu-
ally the powerful Meat Employees’ Union,
having been lined £lOOO for one of the worst
breaches of the anti-strike law on record, is
being made to understand that it av i 11 have
to either pay up or go out of business. The
present Government has the same Premier
and the same Attorney-General as the old
Government; but a change of masters makes
a lot of difference.
When he gets to London Hughes may find
that his “friends” have no further use for
him. The Times, Avhich did so much to
boom him, is amazed at his “statistical and
tactical mistakes” in the conscription cam-
paign in Australia, and, holding him respon-
sible for the loss of thousands and thousands
of votes, declares that his prestige has “suf-
fered irreparable damage.” That doesn’t
look promising.
There are now tAvo Labor parties in South
Aus., one the U.L.P., under the fire-eating
Lundie, and the other, to bo called probably
the National L. P., under Crawford
Vaughan, the Premier. The latter is going
to get to work definitely about the middle of
March, unless a truce can be patched up
before then, and that looks impossible. So
far, Vaughan has resisted all suggestions to
merge with the Conservative party, and
there are good reasons to expect that he will
go on resisting. It may mean loss of office;
but the S. Australia which bred C. C- King-
ston is old-fashioned in many Avays, and
quite a lot of people there, including a few
politicians, put principle before interest.
Whilst Vic. Liberals profess to have a
mortgage on the scalps of Senators Blakey,
McKissock and Findley, no one seems to
know avlio is to do the scalping. The selec-
tion of the three hunters will cause some fun
before it is all over. Geo. Fairbairn, avlio
Avas bumped out of Fawkner six years ago
by J. F. Hannan, will probably be one.
Herbert Brookes avill be another if the local
Freetraders can swalloAv his stupid ideas
about manufacturing things in Australia.
There is great guessing about the third
scalper, though Sammy Mauger is expected
to be a candidate Avhether he is selected or
not.
Comrade Brookfield is at any rate frank
about it. “It is impossible for a man like
me to be a member of the I.WAV. and stand
for political honors,” he says. So he bar-
, 1 e ~ T , TT ’ ~, , . .
racks for the I.W.W. without becoming a
member, and, because lie can win a seat,
the P.L.L. swallows him, though it professes
to hate the I.W.W. like poison. Equally
frankly, what does the P.L.L. think of itself?
EVASIVE.
SERGEANT BRANNIGAN : “Whin Oi sed to the accused, ‘Did yez stale Hogan's alliged
horrses lahrst wake?' the man gave an ivvaysive ansther.”
MAGISTRATE: “Well, what did he say?”
S. BRANNIGAN: “He sez, ‘Ye ould divvil,’ he ses, ‘ax the pigs!’”
Australian optimists who take only a
casual interest in the war are in the habit
of referring to German occupation of nearly
the whole of Belgium as though it were of
far greater importance than the German
hold upon France. As a matter of fact all
the Belgians on earth are not as numerous
as the French population of the territory
that the German army captured 24 years
ago. Nine million French men, women and
children are now living under Hun domina-
tion ; 75 per cent, of the French metal in-
dustry is controlled by Germans for Ger-
mans ; 70 per cent, of the coal and coke
production of France is held by the enemy,
and practically the whole of the cotton in-
dustry, which is centred in Lille, is in the
same plight. And still there are slackers in
this untroubled country who talk of winning
the war by paying sixpence for a button.
HARDLY THE LANGUAGE OF LOVE.
NEWCHUM SENTRY : “Who goes there?”
VISITING ROUNDS (in a hurry): “Friend.”
N.C. SENTRY: “Wha’ say?”
VISITING ROUNDS: “Friend, Hast y'!”
THE SENTRY: “H’m! Sounds to me more
like a husband.”
There will be an excuse for another official
guzzle presently. A gap of only 109 miles
now separates Port Augusta, in South Aus.,
and Kalgoorlie, the Westralian terminus of
the East-and-West line. Rails have ■ been
laid for 944 miles, and the telegraph is
marching alongside. Platelaying is held up
for the present owing to a shortage of rails;
but the picks and shovels are still going, and
it won’t be long before Australia is in irons
from east to west.
The Chief Sec. for Ireland, speaking of
the ree.ent deportation of 3S Sinu Feiners,
that if he were able to speak with
i° Say ,/ all he kn l w
°3 the matter,” he could satisfy even the
Nationalists that there was nothing to
sneeze at in this deportation of men who
were “up to their ears in conspiracy.” Whv
is Mr. Duke, K.C., not able to speak with
frankness, and what good purpose can be
served by reticence? Parliamentary
attacks on the government of Ireland are
not censored; yet the British Government
professes to apply a strict censorship to
itself and leaves Ignorance to draw all sorts
of false conclusions and Prejudice to paint
all sorts of wild pictures.
No wonder Ilolman thought he should be
at the Imperial Conference. He represents
something which is so much more like a
“sovereign State” than the Commonwealth
is, that its Parliament can extend its own
life, whereas that little job is beyond the
power of the Commonwealth Parliament.
What Ilolman can do off his own bat Hughes
has thus to beg of the British Parliament to
do for him.
Westralia has had three Speakers within
a fortnight or so; and the circumstances
suggest that there isn’t much difference these
days between politics and pony-racing.
When the Labor people thought they saw a
chance of beating the Government the Labor
Speaker resigned to give his side the vote
that might do the trick. The Government,
suspecting that Bertie Johnston, the one
Independent in the House, was in treaty
with the Labor party, promptly rushed him
into the chair. That he was utterly un-
suited for the position didn’t matter.
Nothing, in fact, matters in party politics
except to get an advantage for your own
party. Bertie Johnston naturally proceeded
to make a howling mess of things, and
Tommy Walker, who was an old hand in
N. S. Wales politics over 20 years ago, got
to work on behalf of the Labor party, which
of course was mad ..t having been tricked,
and he so tangled up Bertie that Bertie re-
signed. Then Jimmy Gardiner, who used to
be Treasurer, and has been also playing
rather a lone hand, was put in the chair;
and that is how matters stand for the pre-
sent. What the people think of it all
Heaven only knows.
REPATRIATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Peace would bring chaos unless they did some-
thing.”—-IP. M. Hughes.
Let us do something! Up and down the land
The gumleaves ripen and. the breezes blow.
Long, lazy waters curl upon the sand
Where Mabel sports a wet and Shell-pink toe.
Slow pumpkins mellow in the Autumn sun,
And it is plain that something must be done.
Haig marches on. The German files retire.
Thunders of doom arc loose on land and sea.
Heavy with dread, we wonder and perspire
And fear to think how near us peace may be.
If once the Teuton legions start to run,'
’Tis very clear that something must be done.
Repatriation must be sternly faced.
The task is great and will not brook delay.
Xo single moment is there left to waste.
Our soldiers may return now any day.
The darkness echoes to the rending gun;
Triumph is near, and something lpust be done.
Let us do something. Oh, suggest a move!
A Federal job is ours, as all men know.
A Federal task is ours to surely prove
We are the sort of men to boss the show....
Words, words, words, words from dawn to' set of
sun;
And little hope till Billy’s jaws have done.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
THE DUBIOUS MARINER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We are prepared for tlio worst, while hoping for
the best. If we are compelled to plunge into the
hurly-burly of an election, I fancy that some party
or other will be hurt.” —Captain Joe Cook.
Prepared for the worst,
We hope for the.best,
And we drift as we’ve drifted of yore;
The Senate accursed
Won’t let Party rest,
Or help Hughes and Me win the war.
The storm-cloud may burst,
But we’ll keep up the jest,
Though rocks there are many in-shore;
Prepared for the worst,
We hope for the best,
And we drift as we've drifted before.
VICTORIA.
E. T.


Evenings at Home are Never Dull
with one of
Paling’s Player Pianos
I"
m
55ji
i -:*(
mi
i
■f ? \ *4.^
' 4 > i X i
• * 'kit'.'
H MiH
UY one of Paling’s Player Pianos and enjoy the
best and latest music. All the family can play
Paling’s Players. They are so easy, and have
the most up-to-date improvements and wonder-
ful expression devices that enable you to “play like
an artist.” The pedalling is perfect—it never tires you.
Your present piano exchanged at full honest value.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD., 338 George Street, Sydney
USIC in the home exerts a happy influence upon
every member of the family and your friends.
Buy one of Paling’s Player Pianos, and at once
you will be astonished and delighted with the
fine results you can achieve. Paling’s Player Pianos are
simply marvellous—you cannot get better value.
Inspect to-day, or write to-night for Catalogue.
We sell on Time Payment.
Brisbane, Newcastle,
' Toowoomba , Lismore.
PEARSON LAW LIMITED.
REGISTERED OFFICE: GIPPS STREET, RICHMOND (VICTORIA).
Directors :
EDWARD C. DYASON, Esq., Chairman.
GEORGE 11. DAY, Esq. AW^Est^'
WILLIAM 11. CUMING, Esq. .TAMES L. G. LAM, Esq.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
fir “>?«!
is# a'Mts.rJre.ss./sf £ %jffi£srL£sz> s
the interim dividend paid 20th July, 1916, amounting to A 7115 8s od., leaving an amount availab
of £5846 8s 3d which the Directors recommend allocating as follows.— „
Dividend on'Preference Shares—for the half-year at the rate of 7% per annum .. ..£1,040 la 2
Dividend on Ordinary Shares for the half-year at the rate of 10% per. annum .. •• 16 6
Write off Plant and Machinery 10% • • 2 853 12 7
Leaving a Balance to be carried forward ot .. ■ • • • • • • • * * ’' ’
£5,846 8 3
>. order t...0p. with the i»~f 8 —SJ' o? P S
ssrey ‘ rj? I ,r P ,=«rs
of the Company’s Officers and the co-operation of the employees, with "horn, it is pleasant to iccora,
” o,t M“ ll G”H%7“7t°m". o rra;S« l in“i'ot.b,.c« with the Article, ol A,»ciatio», «n<l bein S
t S£?S.re, F.C.F.A., retire,. «nd bci„ e eli„ibl. offers him.il lot
-election.
IVM. BUCKLEY, Secretary.
E. C. DYASON, Chairman.
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1916.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital Account
Less Unissued—•
6264 preference
shares of £1 each £6,264 0 0
8352 ordi n a r y
shares of 10s. each 4,176 0 0
£60,000 0 0
10,440 0 0
Reserve account against goodwill
Bills payable
The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Sundry creditors, including amounts
on deposit by shareholders
Profit and Loss Accounts —
Balance 31st Decem-
ber, 1915 . . £4,691 14 10
Net profits 31st
December, 1916.. 8,270 1 5
£49,560 0 0
5,000 0 0
3,496 16 0
15,287 2 0
3,562 7 1
Less— £12,961 16 3
Interim dividend
paid 20/7 / ? 16,
£1451 Bs.; bonus
of 4s. per share
paid 20/7/’l6 to
ordinary share-
holders and rein-
vested by them in
ordinary shares,
£5664... .. 7,115 8 0
£5,846 8 3
£82,752 13 4
ASSETS.
By Stock on hand at Cost
Building
Sundry debtors
Goodwill
Plant and machinery
Horses and lorry
Advertising matter on hand
Stationery on hand
Petty cash in hand ..
. £36,603 6 2
. 11,013 12 9
. 18,021 19 11
7,000 0 0
9,501 17 2
. 106 8 2
354 0 0
150 0 0
1 10 2
£82,752 13 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Directors’ Fees, Under-
writing Commission and General
Trading Expenses .. ~ ..£20,68a 11 3
Balance .. .. .. • • 12,961 16 3
£33,647 7 6
By Balance December, 1915 ..
Gross Profits December, 1916
. . £4,691 14 10
. . 28,955 12 8
£33,647 7 6
We, J. K. Pearson and J.. L. G. Law, being two of the Directors of Pearson do hereby
certify that in our opinion the before-mentioned Balance-sheet is 1 j PEARSON,
account of the Company’s affairs. j_' l. ‘ q law.
AUDITORS’ REPORT. . , .
I hereby report that I have audited the Books and Accounts; ol| the■ I hive
the year ended 31st December, 1916. That I have obtained all exhibits a true and correct
required, and that in my opinion the Balance-sheet is prope ly information and the explanations
view of the state of the Company’s affairs, according to the best ot my miormation .
given me. as shown by the books of the Company. mpppn MOORE F.C.P.A.. Auditor.
Dated at Melbourne this 7th day of February, 1917. A. CAPPER MOORE, r.0.r.a.,
A CirdeThat Never Stops Growing
It is astonishing how quickly
people get to know about a cal',
and especially about the men
who build it.
People are not buying Dodge
Brothers Car simply because
they want a car of some sort, or
any sort.
They are buying it because
they want the precise and
particular kind of car which
Dodge Brothers build.
All over the country they
seem to have a shrewd and
accurate idea of exactly the kind
of manufacturers Dodge Brothers
are.
They seem to know that Dodge
Brothers idea, from the very
first, was that if they built the
car right—nothing else, mattered
much.
People generally know all
about the ear—or nearly all —
before they call on a Dodge
Brothers dealer.
They know it either from
their own experience, or from
what they have seen or been
told of other people’s experience.
They pick out the very points
for which it is noted every-
where—points which have not
been emphasised especially in
advertising.
They know why they want
the car—and they are more
eager for it to-day all over the
country than they have been at
any other period in its history.
The production has always
been too small to come any-
where near satisfying the de-
mand.
It, is at this moment, and it
probably will be for years to
come, no matter how much it
may be increased.
The explanation is ridicu-
lously simple.
The car has never bred any-
thing but good will.
Every time one of these cars
goes into a home it becomes an
intimate part of the family life
of that home.
It gets nothing but good
words and good will.
The result- is that that par-
ticular home becomes a little
circle of good will revolving
around Dodge Brothers Car.
The circle spreads out finally,
and takes in a near-by neighbor.
That neighbor’s home, in turn,
begins to radiate good will
toward Dodge Brothers and their
car, and the circle keeps oh
growing.
In that way it has grown
wider and wider, till it takes in
the entire country.
There is always- a desire for
the car waiting to be satisfied,
as fast as the dealer gets in a
supply.
That’s why sales of more than
fourteen million pounds in less
than two years have fallen far
short of satisfying the demand.
The car has qualities peculiar
to itself. People have found
this out in their own way.
It has made good with them,
and they have given it their
good will.
That is why the good-will
circle goes on growing greater
and greater.
Dodge Brothers know this.
They know it is the biggest
and best asset in their business.
And, knowing it. they w'ill of
course keep on making the car
better and better.
Tlie petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers. Detroit
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.. Sydney. Messrs. Canada Cycle
and Motor Co., Ltd., Melbourne; Messrs. Cheney Motor Company,
Ltd., Adelaide; Messrs. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth;
Messrs. Dalgety & Company. Ltd., Brisbane; Messrs. Co-opera-
tive Motors, Ltd., Hobart; Messrs. Magnus, Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Wellington; Mr. George Henning, Auckland; Mr. Newton
King, New Plymouth; Messrs. Hawkes, Ltd., Christchurch;
Messrs. Cossens & Black, Ltd., Dunedin; Mr. P. H. Vickery,
Invercargill.


Hun submarine frightfulness can no more
help them out of their frizzle than fat from
the frying-pan can put out the fire, opines
that spirit of rightfulness King George IV.
top-notch Scotch. —Advt.
a
ON
UP
ever/ day fill
SHELL
BENZINE
afATHIUs
”^ w HERf
wt,
lOUTf
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LiniTED, Redlern, Sydney.
A representative of
Turnbull & Jones Ltd., New Zealand,
Patentees and Makers of Totalisator,
will arrive in Sydney, on March 6, with SAMPLE MACHINES
• embodying latest improvements.
Racing Clubs are advised that representative will supply full information
regarding Totalisator and the system of operation.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Three things that seemed to stick out
irom the results of the postponed meeting at Caul-
held were the chances of Balarang and Whitefield
lor the Newmarket and of Rushford for the Aus-
tralian Cup. Balarang’s masterly run in the Futurity
stakes was generally accepted", as a guarantee of his
ability to beat all that finished behind him on the
Monday when they should battle with him up the
rlemington straight five days later. He was going
to meet all of them, save Lord Bobadil and White-
held, on better terms in the V.R.C. event. But
uhereas the tall, long son of Challenger looked fully
wound up for the Futurity, it was evident enough
that .Whitefield was only beginning to get fit. The
English horse is a thick-legged fellow with immense
Titers. George Woodforde, chairman of the
v.A.T.C., remarked that Whitefield “looked liand-
some without the dray.” Anyone viewing him from
the rear would, back him for a welter race up a
hill. His record, however, showed the burly animal
to be a bit of a flier, and his lively goings-on after
the Futurity race bore witness to his being some-
what above himself. The question was whether
'kmtefield could be gfalloped into tip-top form
within five days, and whether his best would be good
enough.
Rushford was fancied for the Australian Cup after
Ins Caulfield failure on the ground that liis rider
(Lilly man) waited much too long behind Lucky
Escape in the Woodrlitf Handicap. He came with a
rather impressive run at the finish, but it only
sufficed to beat Becassine. Still it was a distinctly
classy’ effort, and it suggested that Rushford might
stay when put to the big test.
Nobody could complain that the New-
market victory of Polycrates was inexplicable. Public
form, judged by the Epsom and Metrop. races last
spring l , pointed to the wayward English horse as one
of the very likely ones. Even his last previous per-
formance—his failure in the Caulfield Cup—was a
recommendation as regards the sprint race: for he
started off at a great bat and lasted a mile or more.
As between him and the privately-trained Lavendo
the point, to he considered was that lie had already
proved himself a slick beginner, whereas Lavendo
had often seemed averse to hustling along from the
very outset. In a fast-run Newmarket both these
horses, together with Woorak, Headwind and Pet-
racia, were' among the leaders at half a mile. Then
Lavendo dropped out of the struggle, and Whitefield
became prominent in pursuit of the leaders; but
want of condition probably kept the burly dark horse
from getting nearer than fourth. For a moment
Petraeia’s green jacket in the centre of the course
threatened to give Ikey Mo the greatest turn-up on
record.. The mare was a 200 to 1 chance. But
Headwind outstayed her, and Polycrates on the out-
side rails managed to beat the son of Malster by a
head. Time, imin. 13sec. A great race.
Opinions will differ as to whether Balarang showed
his best ability in the Newmarket. None of the three
placed horses had opposed him in the Futurity
Stakes at Caulfield, but one of them, Headwind, had
beaten him in the Oakleigh Plate. It is quite pos-
sible that Balarang’s fine sprinting powers were not
quite equal, at the weights, to the sustained effort
necessary to a win on the “straight 6” at Fleming-
ton. One thing must always be remembered- in
rating the chances of gees for the Newmarket: some
of them have rarely done their best in crowded fields.
The English nags, in particular, have not been
schooled in their young days to the ordeal of a
jostling race on a circular course, and thev rarelv
run kindly when they are bunched with a lot cif
horseflesh immediately ahead of them. In short,
many a horse gallops nervously in a crowd and
recovers his pluck when he . sees a clear road in
front of him.
It is easy to explain why Polycrates dropped
back in the betting on the day. His glaring eye
looked full of mischief, and the mettlesome six-year-
old appeared to be thinking of other things 'than
racing. He. promised to give trouble at the post
and was quite likely to get left. Also the papers
had talked the usual balderdash about his want of
preparatory gallops in public, as though it were
necessary for an old stager to run two or three byes
with the colors up after a few months’ retirement!
The victory of Polvcrates was another caustic satire .
on the balderdash aforesaid.
Patrobas had only a head to spare at the finish of
the Essendon Stakes; nevertheless it was a good,
honest win as the race was run. In a clinking field
of seven there were four imported horses, but the
best of them, Aides, could get no nearer than third.
After Patrobas had won it seemed ridiculous that he
should have been scratched for the Australian Cup
on the ground that he was badly handicapped in
comparison with Lavendo. The latter had also been
scratched in the meantime.
Wise punters are always loth to hack two-year-olds
in the autumn on their Spring running. Four months
ago Pah King and Renown were many pounds bettor
than Thrice, in Scobie’s stable, but they were far
behind that improved colt last Saturday when tested
in the Sires Produce Stakes. The books rejoiced
exceedingly over the Thrice surprise, which had been
preceded by the downfall of Wolari in the Leger.
The result of the classic race was a rather mortifying
surprise to William Brown, owner of the winner.
He reckoned that he held Wolari safe with his pair
—Colbert and Thana. The former was to make a
good pace and the mare was to come with a wet
sail at the business end of the journey. Thana drew
level with her stable companion in the straight,
but Colbert outstayed her and won quite easily.
Many of the stable followers lost their money, and
others had only ■ a saver on the winner. Thana
looked a bit above herself in condition and will
probably justify her owner’s confidence anon.
* * * #
One of the biggest winners over the New-
market was the Warwick Farm (Sydney) sport Ted
Oatlev. He was one of the fortunates who saw the
imported Polycrates do his trial at Warwick Farm,
and as a result backed the animal to win £4OOO.
* * * *
“Carfax”: The people behind Polycrates
threw in for a good stake on the Newmarket, and
- in -a -couple-. of-weeks -the pressure 0 f their cash moved
him from any old price down to 7's. There was very
little of the public’s money on him. The Balarang
stable, too, would have lifted a hatful had their
moke won, and so would the Lavendo establishment.
All three horses had shown winning form. Balarang
in public and the other two privately. A win by
Balarang would have been a bad thing for Ike, for
the crowd weighed in with solid wads for a
share in the good thing. And what a good thing it
looked on Balarang’s Randwick and Caulfield perform-
ances! But he couldn’t repeat them. The New-
market was about a week too late. Clinking good
horse though Polycrates is, he would never beat the
Balarang that won the Futurity and the Chelmsford.
All the same, the remark (B. 22/2/’l7) that it would
be good to remember Polvcrates as an ’ exceptionally
smart horse was well justified.
The story is told of a misguided man who
owned a horse which he believed could win the New-
market. In ante-post betting lists the neddy was
. quoted early in the piece at 100 to 1, wherefore this
owner reckoned he could back the animal to land •at
least £ 20,000 on a comparatively small outlay.
First of all he banked on getting at least £5OOO
from a certain firm of bookmakers. When the criti-
cal moment came the most he could secure from
these tremendous operators was £5OO. As a result
the amount he secured for his available capital was
only about £7OOO. Money is as tight with book-
makers just now as it is with Governments, and the
chance of securing a big parcel in one place about
any horse reckoned to have a ghost of a show is
less than that of the lamented Buckley.
* * * •
The trainer of the smart Patrobas was
fined £2 by the stewards at Caulfield for not specify-
ing in the nomination paper the colors to be carried
by the colt in the Futurity. Wheeler, after duly
weighing in with the fine, gave away the interesting
fact that Patrobas was entered for the race as a
yearling, and at that time Mrs. Widdis, the owner,
did not possess any colors! Since then the new-
comer at the game has annexed a- Melbourne Cup
and heaps of minor races with her nag, and thousands
of pounds in stakes alone; while old-fashioned owners
whose colors have been registered for a score of
years hardly make enough to pav their blacksmith’s
bills.
Though the horse originally cost him SOO
guineas and a lot more has gone out since, Randwick
trainer Billy Kelso was wise when he lately refused
200 guineas for Narivo, because on Saturday the
animal secured the Warwick Farm Handicap, beat-
ing a number of good performers, including Lady
Minnie, who was runner up. Narivo will need to
unwind a few more spurts like that if he wants to
wm back the money spent on him.
♦ * * *
The great deeds expected as a two-year-
old from a nag named Bulbo (Antonio —Rose Alba)
were never realised. But lately he has taken to
hurrying up. After clearing out with Moorefield
(Sydney) Flying last Monday week this horse secured
the Flying Welter at Warwick Farm on Saturday.
He may win again. The manner in which he rushed
for the judge’s box indicated pluck and ability to
sustain a run.
Hopoast, winner of the Liverpool Mile at
Warwick Farm (Sydney) on Saturday, is owned bv
a lady. The proprietors of the nags which on the
same day at Fiennngton won the Essendon Stakes,
ran second in the Brunswick Stakes and third in
the Newmarket are also ladies. It looks as if the
mokes had been given a severe talking-to before the
start.
S.A. .Jockey Club leaves the stakes for
its Adelaide Cup meeting much the same as last
T ) e Cup itse h C° he run on May 7) is worth
£l5OO ( £l2OO to the winner), Goodwood Handi-
cap £7OO, and the weiglit-for-age £4OO. Total
stakes for the three days, a trifle over £6OOO. The
Adelaide Racing Club follows, also in May, with
the Birthday Cup and a programme almost * exactly
similar.
* * * *
Rudolph Heady, ex-senator from Tasmania,
suggested in. Parliament the other day that persons
controlling the prizes given at race-meetings might
substitute War Loan bonds for the hard cash. But
in a manner of speaking that is done alreadv. The
clubs mostly pay in Commonwealth notes ; and that
amounts to very much the same thing. The prac-
tical difference is that the notes can be passed on to
the horse-trainer to buy tucker with; the bonds are
not in such small denominations, and are not there-
fore so useful for the purpose.
“J.F.D.” ; The pony owners seem to be the
only people with originality and imagination when
it comes to a christening. Look at some of the
superb efforts: Fradafield, Osfield, Frithfield, Larrv-
field, \icfield, Courtfield, Kingfield—all through the
dictionary of fatuity except Ilaythefield. Of course
it is easy- when the animal isn’t a gentleman. That
is why there are about' 974 Ellens, Idas, Kitties and
Mollies, not forgetting- Flash Allice, ’Appy Lady
Ortv Ena, and, spare me days !—Toora Lassie. Then
there are Cool Jim and ’Ot Stuff, Cool Lil and Hot
Air But no one seems to have thought of ’Olv
Smoke. At Rosebery last week Ike had to deal with
a nag named Swastika and did his worst. I lost
on the cow How is it that there are no Blimes or
Strikemepinks or Struths ?
r. R l -' C.C. MacDonald, just dead at Mount
Gambler (5.A.,), at 63, was born in that volcanic dis-
trict, and, after qualifying in Scotland as a medical
11 J iU h* : ? >e »£ Merest of hi 3 life there. He was mayor
of the Mount iOr 11 years in all, and chairman
or committeeman of nearly everything in the dis-
trict, a keen owner of racehorses, and in much
request at one time as a judge at races.
When Hercules Robinson knocked off
wearing a cocked hat in N. S. Wales and proceeded
with his decorative, effects to Maoriland, he didn’t
cave behind him his love of the thoroughbred
Robinsons jacket of ‘Zetland spots had been a
famihar sight at Randwick, and it was from him
that Geordie McLean, lately dead in M.L., acquired
the livery. Robinson entered into a racing part-
nership with McLean, and about their first nag was
that good mare Lady Emma, brought over from
Australia. Robinson only stayed for about 18
months in the Windy Isles, and the partnership
ceased soon after, Geordie carrying on alone. Rob-
inson owned some good horses' in Australia, amon°-
them Kmgsborough, winner of the A. J C Chain-
pagne Stakes and Derby of ’74 and the St. Leger of
the following year.
* * * *
“Toby C.”: At what age does a mare
become too old to breed? At Bairnsdale (Vic)
recently one 30 years of age, owned bv a coekv
named Davie Williams, threw a fine heal'thy-looking
foal to Little Ery (one of the Panic progeny), who
is also well up in years—22. Little Fry served 80
mares last season, satisfactorily in 72 cases. Virile
prads those Panics.
“Sheila”: The late “Stepper” Davis, the
North Bananaland bookmaker, was dining at a
llughenden hotel one day when another diner politely
threatened to bash him with a bottle. “Stepper,”
who stuttered, rose, and, shaking his fist, stammered:
“T-t-take the cruet —y-y-.yoil’ll have an even m-money
chance with that!”
"D.F.”: There are trout in the White
Kangaroo River (Tas.), and I asked a native what
the fishing- was like. “No good yet,” he said ; “the
water isn’t low enough.” The stream runs through
limestone country in parts, and in very dry weather
it dwindles down to a series of holes. Then the
native strips and gets after the fish with a pitchfork
or some such weapon. At other times he does a hit
of tickling, but it is reckoned slow. To tickle a
trout, by the way, requires more skill than to hook
him. It’s a merciful method, too, and probably the
trout would plump for it if they had a vote in
spite of the fact that it has been made illegal.
“J.RK.”: Next time you want lively
trout-fishing, come north to the Herberton (Q.)
wafers. the trout were introduced five years ago
and three-pounders are already awaiting the angler.
Of course, we have no Hotel Kosciusko. But we
have a better cb'mate.
* v * *
“Lantana”: Don’tMqiow anything about
the heaviest bream, but this goes on the scales in
the jewfish competition, lie was caught at Evans
.River, North Coast, the other day, and weighed
451 b.
Corio : “T.” (B. 22/2/’l7) asks if an
angler has ever succeeded in landing a 51b. black
bream. I have. I was spinning for barramundi in
ilie back-waters of the Camden Haven (N.S.W.),
when I made a strike—a six-pounder securely hooked
by the gills. The spinner is a hook encased in rag
with a heavy sinker attached. When drawn to and
* ro . in the water the fish rushes it, and then it’s the
frying-pan for him.
* * * *
Charlie Eady is better known than any
other inhabitant of the Speck. There is Cft. 4in. of
him, and he has had a hand in every sport invented
except bowls. As a member of Harry Trott’s XI
he visited England in
18f)fS, and lias stuck,
to cricket ever since.
His 5C<5 for Break o’
Hay against Welling-
ton is easily the
world’s record for
first-class cricket. In
addition to being-
judge for the T.B.C.
Charles spots winners
for the trotting clubs
and also judges the
amateur boxing tour-
neys. In li'is '■pare
time he acts as a
solicitor, but never
allows the pursuit of
Costs to deter him
from his daily swim.
CHARLIE
EADY,
Tasmania's
sport.
A..T.W. ’: Pass the fiver offered by the
hotelkeeper at Scamander for the 51b. bream. A fort-
night ago I saw W. B. Poole,-of Adelaide, catch a
bream which weighed 5-Jlb. (tested on three different
sets of scales). It measured 20in. long and 164 in.
girth.
* * * *
The wicket-keeping was the main feature
of Sydney cricket on Saturday. Sundries were absent
altogether from the scores of Gordon and Middle
Harbor; leg-byes only were credited to North Syd-
ney (1), Sydney (2) and Waverley (2). Quiney
(Petersham) had the best “bag” with two stumped
and one caught. It was the best day-out the Aunt
Sallies have had in premiership cricket in Sydney.
*****
H. Russel] (100) and F. Merchant (100
not out), who gave Middle Harbor some exercise at
Petersham (Sydney) on Saturday, are camped on the
step waiting for the Big Cricket door to open. Both
youths have batted consistently during the season,
Russell’s 00 against ’Varsity and Merchant’s 62 for
Gordon being their previous best efforts. When they
got together on Saturday the score was 64 for three
wickets; and when Woolcott caught Russell off
Walton it stood at 226 for the fourth.
* * * *
Another W. Hughes (East Perth) is mak-
ing a noise in Westralian cricket. Against North
Perth the other day he took six wickets for four
runs, and in the match finished with eight for 35
runs. Thus far this season Hughes has taken 60
wickets at an average of four runs each.
* * * *
Frank Penn, just dead in England at 65,
belonged to a numerous family that plaved cricket
for Kent. Frank came to Australia with Harris’s
team in ’7B, but did very little to keep up his
reputation as a powerful hitter. He played for the
hop county for over a quarter of a century, and
some of his big scores were banged up in sensational
style. He had a lot of enthusiasm and poor health.
A couple of big ’uns were turned into the
ring at Sydney Stadium on Saturday—Colin Bell, a
cave-man, burly and muscular; Jim Tracey, lanky
and meatless. Colin rolled in to hand out stousii
from the start, and Tracey made the disastrous mis-
take of going to meet the wallop and pass over some
of his own. Had Tracey stood off, bombarded the
enemy at long range, and made use of his extensive
legs, it is possible that he might have pulled out a
winner. Anyhow, the more tired Colin got the less
dangerous would he be. As it was, Tracey had no
chance. He distribute*} a few to start with <.
from the third round onwards was badh
At round seven he was done to a turn. 'At 2 i
nine he went down like a telegraph n 0 n
struggled up on the tick and qualified f 0? a ’ eh
Aext time he was clean up the spout and
hauling Bell away, handed over the bacon without
further argument. James spent a torrid evening
There were emphatic moments when he was not m,im
sure whether he had broken.in halves. 4 q,nte
Tom O’Malley climbed up a rung at Bris
bane on Saturday by stiffening Jack King a lavishn-
tattooed person, late of the U.S.A. navy kW
could more easily pose as an art connoisseur than
as a boxer, what little he knew of wallop and its
application being knocked out in one clout from his
vigorous opponent in round two. \s a King
O’Malley scrap suggested the appearance of a verbose
party in a big hat, there were approximately IT
spectators present. - "
* * *
C. Sinclair, an amateur pug with an
appetite for wallop, waded into it at the finals* of
the Queensland Amateur Tournaments in Brisbane
last week. On the same evening he mopped up the
next-best lightweight, woodened the next-best middle-
weight and then started to slaughter a heavyweight
He lost by the narrowest of margins, mostly because
be wasn’t cast-iron.
The blacklisting of Darcy by the Governor
of New York State uppercuts that young man on
a place that hurts. For a big match New York
holds a heap more dollars than any other place
When news of the calamity arrived in Sydney last
week there were a lot of people with a mouth full *of
“Oh, graft again!” It is easier to say that than to
remember that the professional pug is an institution
which an enormous number of Americans have mighty
little time for, and, further, that a pug who arrives
in a country as close to war as the U.S.A. is and
does it under such circumstances as surround Davcv,
would not look entitled to much applause from any-
one. Darcy may get fights outside New York, hut it
is within the region of possibility that if the Land
of Freedom gets into holts with the German he may
get something else.
“O’M,”: The late Chidlev. of “The
Answer,” was once a long-haired youth knocking
about South Melbourne —then a very rough-and-
tumble suburb where stoush was frequent and blue
metal free. One night some fool pushites, who
thought him fair game because his hair wasn’t
cropped, flung him a casual insult as he passed.
Ch’dley stopped, asked if they wanted anything and,
not getting a Wilso'nesque reply, hit out as though
his arms were mule’s legs. He cleaned up that
corner bunch before they knew he’d started, and
afterwards became such a respectable terror that
the local police presented him with a silver medal
for doing some of their push-suppression work for
thorn. “Chid”—then a keen sport—won more kudos
early one morning on the training tracks where he
had gone to watch some gallops. Because of an
apprentice’s cheek he cuffed the hoy’s ears, and was
promptly challenged by two hefty trainers to “hit
someone your own size.” He promptly hit two
people his own size—hit them so hard that the
argument terminated at once. He was an honored
guest at the early gallops ever after.
* 4f * #
Fanny Du rack was moderately busy last
week, gathering up the N.S.W. 220yds. (2min.
oSsec.), 440yds. (fimin. 21sec.) and 880yds. (12min.
54' 2-ssec.) swimming championships. In each event
the opposition was too slow to drive the champion
mermaid faster than the previous records standing
to her credit.
Dick Longworth’s effort at Sydney last
week to submerge Mick Wickham’s Australasian
50yds. amateur swimming record of 23 3-ssec. failed
by one-fifth of a second. Wickham’s splash dates
from February, 1910, and despite many onslaughts
the figures are still high and dry.
* * * *
At the Police and Firemen’s carnival at
Sydney on Saturday A. E. Lang, after taking the
pole-vault event (9ft. 2in.) and hop, step and jump
(41ft. 21in.), proceeded to have a go at the 120yds.
hurdles. But as he broke a leg / during the pro-
ceedings Lang's days at lepping have probably ended.
*• * * *
“Tyke”: There is nothing new in the
trick of walking under water. I acquired it from a
diver here in Torres Strait, and this is how it’s
done. Take in a good deep breath and commence
to sink naturally. The moment the head is under
water begin a series of short, sharp puffs. At the
same time lift the water upwards with the palms of
the hands, and sinking is as easy as if you were
loaded with good advice. Lean well forward when
on the bottom and step out vigorously. The speed
is faster if the arms are used as in swimming by the
breast stroke.


Deep Breathing is the Vital
Force of Life—i
#
THE PASS PORT TO GOOD HEALTH
It is oxygen that gives the blood its sparkling redness —
the body its warmth and energy—that makes it possible for
the food we eat to be transformed into bone, muscle and
tissue.
Since it is the duty of the lungs to supply the blood with
oxvgen, deep breathing should be the foundation of every
system of exercise.
A great majority of people are shallow-chested —sufferers
from oxygen starvation —and yet they wonder why they are
fatigued, depressed, under weight—why their vital organs
fail in their duty.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
are most modern, efficient and successful.
They build up weak chests by strengthening the lungs,
developing the muscles supporting the chest walls, broadening
the shoulders, and making you breathe in a natural way.
The exercises you receive will be those moi& suitable for
your individual physique, just as the particulars you
furnish tell me you require.
I have written a book entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELE-CULTURE,” which tells all about my methods.
Write your name and address across this advertisement and
post it to me. I will know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L.( snowy) BAKER,
586 Belmont
Buildings, Sydney.
My CIGARILLOS
are Sure to Please.
They are certainly a smoke
of rare quality. Their flavor
and ..aroma are delicious —
the same ns you get in a
shilling Havana Cigar.
Don’t fail to send for
a trial lot. You are
sure to enjoy them.
Made in three sizes,
but all one quality.
Actual Size of Cigaril.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/6 2/3 2 -
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11 - 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
S.S.W. 6d.
Other Stater Sd.
Write for a
Free Copy of
my Illustrated
Catalog of
Cigars, Cigar-
ettes, Pipes,
etc.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. I- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
Ciiille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4-Cylinder.
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
' /
r u
&
y
SWUM Power
Makes “INDIAN” the Motorcycle supreme
on Hill, on Track, and with the Side-Car.
Catalogue “ D ” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd..
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.
Adelaide and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE : „„ . e .
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Pine St
LAUNCESTON : _ , ..
John King & Sons Ltd.. Charles St.
PERTH :
Armstrong Cycle
Hay St.
and Motor Agency.
PATON
8066
Write ior Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarenc Street,
Sydney.
sdf
YOUR FOOTWEAR
If COMFORT, SMART STYLES and
GREAT SERVICEABILITY appeal to you
when selecting footwear, you will be highly
pleased with
RIGNEY SHOES.
The illustration shows a very high-grade
Box Calf Bal.
Price 27/6
. In Choice Tan Willow Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
TJie
Evermore
Smile
a
i >
aav
? /
N
You know this smile—but do you know-
EVERMORE
&
The only automatic Strapper
which the true Slyde-Stroke
so essential in any
raTpr.
Special adapters are provided
with each Stropper Jov the.
sharpening of any make of
sa/ety-razor blade both si rse
and double ec^ed.
STROPPER
Price 15/'
rrnmrmm
VJ
Arrows shovy
Diagonal
Ask YourDeakr
to D&nanstrale k
(301NG DOWN
fijMpr Q3cs i?o»n wj«n
L&t hand puils '
:/ArrOWS ahov»\
Diagonal J
: \Co<->»se ofy
IF UNPROCURABLE WHITE BOX- 1005 G P.O , SYDNEY
OR BOX n G PO. AUCKLAND . NEW ZEALAND-
6GING UP
Uft
Hand
'jfwm "


Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the' following state-
ment: Anyone can .prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of bay rum and a small box
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also .fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff. — Advt. [2
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
■bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
allsteamda. Cable address “Trawets.”
f.«oms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
CHRISTIE 3
EPECLAL/SE
TWO
L/AJES
/
■
i
■
I# 5
5
0
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
A* 0
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGE5 T SYDNEY
1C /iONTER ST NEWCASTLE
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
Next time you feel
fagged, try a glass of
Horlick's Malted
Milk. You will feel
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Horlick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick's at
the Soda Fountain.
Sample will he sent
ou receipt of 2d. in
stamps to Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 2G
Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
©
a
Onoto Pen
The Finest Fountain Pen to have and to hold.
Treat the “ Onoto ” fairly and it will serve you for a lifetime.
The “ Onoto ” is made of the finest materials and is built for service
The ‘ ‘ Onoto ’ ’ is self-filling, it is easy to fill, and it never leaks.
All the parts of the “Onoto ’’ are carefully adjusted, and accurately fitted
and there is nothing to get out of order. ’
Ihe Onoto Go;d Nib is scientifically hardened, and it will stav hard.
The “ Onoto ’’ Gold Nib will last as long as the rest of the pen will hold
together.
The “ Onoto ” Nib never splutters and never scratches.
The “ Onoto ” is the only fountain pen that gives absolute satisfaction at
all times.
Price 14/6 each.
11 Stationers. Jewellers & Stores.
Manufaeturers.THOMASDELA Rue & Co.Ltd., Bun hill
Road, London, E.C. Managing: Agents, Noraian
Baker & Longhurst, York Street, Sydney.
gsd
Bos/oc/L
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
they are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form. But think of it in reality, a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a dainty Louis heel. If ever there was
an ideal shoe for smart wear in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
J3ostoek No.
P645S
m
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock."
525
Do not miss the Inte=t Rostock ship-
ments now on view at the leading stores.
-Z
fg
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S DRY CLEANER BLOCKS
for dry cleaning white and colored footwear, canvas and suede shoes and cloth-
topped boots, has no equal.
It is easily applied, does not mb off, and is satisfactory in every way.
Colors—White, Black, Brown, Champagne, Buff, Light and Dark
Grey, and Khaki. Price 6d. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
Commonwealth 4£% War Loan
FOURTH ISSUE.
Time of receiving applications
extended to
MONDAY, 2nd APRIL, 1917.
Applications will continue to be received to the above date in terms of the original
. Prospectus, with the following adjustments:—
FULLY-PAID APPLICATIONS.—If lodged on or before Bth March, 1917, interest at the
rate of 11/17/6 per cent, will be paid on 15th .June, 1917.
If lodged after Bth March and on or before 2nd April, 1917, interest at the rate of
£l/10/- per cent, will be paid on 15th June, 1917.
INSTALMENT APPLICATIONS.— If deposit and first instalment paid or or before Bth
March, 1917, interest at £3/14/- per cent, will be paid op 15th December, 1917.
If deposit, first and second instalments are paid after Stli March, but on or before
2nd. April, 1917, interest at £3/12/- per cent, will be paid on 15th December, 1917.
All other instalments will be due on the dates shewn in the Prospectus.
After the dates mentioned above, interest will be paid half-yearly at rate of 45 per
cent, per annum.
Applications will be received at all banks, State Savings Banks and Post Offices where
Money Order Business is transacted.
Support the Loan and Help Win the War. .
h ebruanj, 1911. Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
“A Neat Shave,”
One that leaves the face as smooth as a child’s, is
what
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
will give you. All the science in the world can’t
make a keener blade or one that keeps its edge so
long.
PRICE 10/6-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Mel-
bourne) ;
Written To Re- Rc-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1905.. £1537 4 p.c. = ABOO £737 £4,102
1900.. 1005 4 „ „ 800 865 5,027
1907.. 2792 5 „ „ 1000 1792 6,819
1908.. 1895 5 „ „ 1000 895 7,714
1909.. 3568 84 „ „ 1700 1868 9,582
1910.. 4114 104 „„ 2100 £53 1961 11,543
1911.. 4853 124 „„ 2893 1960 13,503
1912.. 5346 10 „ „ 2600 2746 16,249
1913.. 0653 124 „„ 3250 1000 2403 18,652
1914.. 6933 124 „ „ 3250 746 2937 21,589
1915.. 7022 15 ~,,3900 500 2622 24,211
1916.. 6301 15 „ „ 3900 500 1901 26,112
All things considered the profit for the past
year is remarkably satisfactory: it is still
much in excess of the average of the years
prior to 1913. What the investor will
want to know is why the profits of the past
five years have been so much better than
those of the preceding years, and whether
it is likely that the co. will fall back to
the old level. First of all, the gross revenue
has vastly improved. Look at this compari-
son :
Revenue from. Revenue from
Business. Rents, etc.
1905 .. £16.569 £423
1906 . . 16,839 447
1910 . . 20.941 570
1915 . . 37,053 518
1916 . . 40,986 515
Thus the revenue from business has been
much more rapid during the past five years
than it was in the preceding five. Recruit-
ing has directly and indirectly brought very
large numbers of country people to town;
and no doubt places like the Victoria have
benefited. The present figures are there-
fore probably exceptional. Still the co.
ought to do much better now than it 'did 10
years ago. It has for one thing provided a
lot more accommodation. In 1905 the freo-
hild, with equipment, was valued at £45,475,
and other assets were £024. To-day the
property and equipment are valued, by rea-
son of additions, at £74.007, and other assets
are £3307. And practically this line addi-
tion has been made without increasing the
liabilities. They stood at £20,773 in 1900
and are £23,853 now. Meantime the capital
has been increased by only £OOOO. ' Thus
compared with 10 years ago the co. has. in
round figures, £30,000 more revenue-earning
assets and only £OOOO more capital to pay
dividends upon. A return to the old low
rate of dividend : s therefore unlikely, even
though* present profits may be exceptional.
Last year the Australian (Sydney) Gas-
light Co. produced 4,403,173,000 cub! feet of
gas, which is a record. All gas isn’t sold at
the same price, because manufacturing firms
get a reduction, and it is due mainly to the
increase of manufactures that the demand
for gas has shown such a remarkable in-
crease. The Sydnev co. is considerably
ahead of the big Melbourne concern; the
latter co. produces 3300 millions cub. feet
m 12 months, or 25 p.c. less! than the big
Sydney co. Melbourne is. however, miles
ahead in the manufacture of residuals, which
provide a revenue of £lBO,OOO a year, which
compares with the Sydnev co.’s £lOO,OOO a
year.
Quidam on the action of explosives: —
Miners stick to the belief that dynamite and
gelignite stiike downwards when they are exploded.
They do; but anyone sitting on top would also find
that they strike upwards, too. The theory has grown
from the fact that a high explosive, placed in the
open on a rock or plate of cast-iron, will shatter it,
while the older explosive, powder, will not. The
explanation is, of course, that, whereas blasting
powder makes 1500 to 2000 volumes of gas for
every part of powder and takes ohe-hundredth part of
a second to do it in, high explosives make over
16,000 volumes of gas, and carry out the performance
m from 1-20,000 th to 1-50,000 th of a second. On
an explosion of powder the air lias thus time to
i emove itself, while in the other case the g'ases strike
a buffer of rapidly compressed air, and thus waste
less force. _ All explosives act similarly in simply
expanding into gas when fired, their action in every
direction if unrestricted being equivalent; but air
suddenly and violently compressed is a firmer sub-
stance to kick against than air slowly and softly
pushed away. Anybody can prove this. If a cast-iron
plate be suspended horizontally, and the “o-elly”
tied underneath it, the plate and the old theorv will
be fractured together.
* * * *
Westralia’s mineral production other
than gold tor 1910 was worth £255 860
Copper accounted for £65,581; tin, £49,101 j
Mlv . er ’ *13,928; silver-lead ore. £10.499;
coal £30,J00; and miscellaneous £85.786
I reduction to date totals £4,100.514. of
which more than half* has been got ' for
copper and tin.
Hans Irvine’s option on the Triplicate,
luekabianna, on the Murchison (WA)
has been abandoned. A few months ago
.he show was being credited almost everv
other day with rich finds, and the district
in which it is located was being boosted.
Iheie is a lot ot that sort of thing going on
in the AN est just now.
Local shareholders still grumble about the
stoppage ot the Black Range Pinnacles bat-
tery (\\ .A.). On the reports issued by the
co. at least two years’ “successful crushing”
was_ expected, and on the strength of the
official announcement that 2000 tons would
lie treated monthly and divs. paid in Octo-
ber some speculators on the spot mortgaged
everything except their wives and families
in order to load up. Now they can’t pay up.
The efforts of Sons of Gwalia (W*A ) to
find new mines in Westralia are still unsuc-
. cesstul. For some time it had a party of
prospectors testing a belt of eountrv near
Laverton. Then it moved them on to another
locality. Now it talks of going somewhere
else on the Mt. Margaret field.
The treatment plant on the Leonora Gold
Blocks (H.A.) should be completed bv the
end of February, and should show decent
yields for three or four months. But the
vem is small and has been metliodicallv
depleted of its rich shoots. As there is an
old 10-head battery on the propertv. whv
not have treated 500 tons or so by this in-
stead of installing a new plant? The old
mill is a rattletrap, certainly, but as a
sampling machine is good enough.


FROM TH E FACTORY TO THE PAINTER
V
\J
at
X
3a
§1
«*
'J
I
*
X
Vs
Gltt
Ol*'
LI
MPW
PAINTERS, Kelp to make Australia prosperous by using s Linseed Oil,
made by good Australian Workmen at Parramatta.
~. -.. . u e PvFnn *Co ltd Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne;
For ft* Co'., Launceston and Hobart; B.a.r Reed * Co., We.Hngton, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufaeturers, Parramatta, n.s.w.


'J3>
BEAUTY
Attracts
ADMIRATION
A clear, spotless skin, bright eyes, and rosy
cheeks are the main points of an attractive
face. If your liver is out of order you
will not have these good points in your
complexion.
FISHERS
BEAUTY PILLS
FOR THE LIVER
Make new blood and clear the complexion
of spots and blotches. One pill occasionally
means a healthy liver, a healthy liver
means a big asset to both men and women.
Always ask for Fisher’s Liver Pills.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
1 /- per bottle
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W,
Why Look Old ? :
You need not use hair dye to conceal grey hair.
Grey hair adds years to anyone’s appear-
ance. The objections to dyeing the hair are
too numerous and too obvious to mention.
l'Vvv people are aware that a simple, old-
fashioned recipe, that can be made up at
home, will quickly turn grey hair back to a
natural color without injuring the hair in
any way. One has only to get two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite from the chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
With a small sponge apply the lotion' to the
hair for a few nights and the desired change
will have been neatly accomplished. r i' v his
simple formula has given great satisfac-
tion for generations to those in possession of
it.— Advt. [3
ih
• **
Don't forget to use
tICARBOUCIJ
to -night and again
in the morning .
You ’w ill find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by-local '-hemists and Stores.
Mad: by C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester, England.
TkCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in Oct. Gold, from 1076 each.
Mounted as Rings in Oct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; i
publicly acknowledged to be the most
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is
personal supervision of the owner, A.
n fact, it is
refined and
i under the
FINNIOAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite,
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
I
IM
a
e
C<
xity*
ea:
c-
i|(l/iMiiimn
£
a
jo'inv
Smmw
4*-W
X
— j
h
n
V'
illmtll
•*sw
hiniKi
J/weet Tiell of Old Drury
Charley XL
UNIQUE PROCESS FOR
RETAINING AND
REGAINING BEAUTY.
By Mule. Charlotte Sirier.
Does your skin chap or roughen easily, or become
unduly red or blotchy? Let me tell you a quick and
easy way to overcome the trouble and keep your com
plexion beautifully white, smooth and soft. Just eet
some ordinary mercolised wax at the chemist’s and
use a little before retiring as you would use’ cold
cream. The wax, through some peculiar action flecks
off the rough, discolored or blemished skin. The
worn-out cuticle comes off just like dandruff on a
diseased scalp, only in almost invisible particles Mer-
colised wax simply hastens Nature’s work, which is
the rational and proper way to attain a perfect com-
plexion, so much sought after but very seldom seen
The process is perfectly simple and quite harmless
It is astounding the number of women who suffer
from unsightly growths of hair on the face, and it
will come as a piece of good news to know that
there is a simple substance known as powdered
pheminol which will remove it immediately and per-
manently. Mix a small quantity into a thin paste
with a little water, and apply to the objectionable
growths. In two minutes all trace of the hair will
have entirely vanished, and j our skin will be as soft
and smooth as a child’s.
The hair should be allowed to breathe, and the
greasy film around each strand must be removed with
a mild non-alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be
tabooed. The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonfnl of stallax
granules in a cup of hot water, ft stimulates the
scalp to healthy action, and at the same time leaves
the hair in that soft, fluffy condition so much
admired. Any chemist can supply you with an
original packet of stallax, sufficient to' make 25 or
SO shampoos.
One need not resort to the very questionable ex-
pedient of hair-dye in order not to have grey hair.
The grey hair can easily be changed back to a
natural color in a few days’ time merely by the
application of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from your
chemist two ounces of tanunalite concentrate, and
mix ft with three ounces of bay rum. Apply this to
the hair a few times with a small sponge and you
will soon bnvc the pleasure of seeing your grey hair
gradually darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
Is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and dc*'.s not injure
‘ho hair In any way. [2
9 •
y
4. A
How to Set Your
Own Razor!
A sharp razor is its own reward to the man who
shaves himself, yet how to keep it sharp, with tough
beards, has always been the great obstacle on account
of the average man not knowing how to set or
sharpen a razor. The simple, yet expedient
Perforated Hone
solves the question permanently. You will wonder
why it was not thought of before, but it provides
a lifetime of easy shaving for a small outlay—only 4,/.
Buy a Perforated Hone—try it. ' “
If it doet.ii t md. e your shave to your satisfaction return it to us
and get your money bach.
Keeps New Razors He n and True.
Sold everywhere at 4/., or post f ee . /4, from:—
THE PERFORATED HONE CO., Dept. 16—123 Scssex Street, SYDNEY.
sd
Qncenua
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
'JIIE LLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
i oorness of Blood is called Ancemia—girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids* to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general ‘ fitness” and well-being.
„ , Fr. Andrew IVilson wrote :—“ lmlroverished btooa can be made rich and good
by means oj Iron jei/o.ds,’ the most effective and desirable treatment ”
A FORTNIGHT'S TRIAL (price 1/6; WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
ror Growing Children IRON‘JELLOIDS’No. 1.
~ , Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured onb by The Jelloid’ Co.. 205. City Road. London. England.
1.
tmMciMM
ll&W (Pronounced Jell-LJoyds)
If any illustration appearing in Thi
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to th«
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (.except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
. Tired O’Billy : No ; because the Austra-
lian investor in the British loan isn’t secure from
income tax or war levy in Australia. .. .F.V.L.:
You’re wrong in one allegation against Pearce’s
department; so the rest of your charge falls under
suspicion... .Taranaki: Sorry, can’t find 0ut....
0.F.: Jokes received. They arrived shortly after the
English mail.... Name undecipherable: Can read
only the words “horse manure.” Get the manure
typed and send it along. ...A Bill.jim: Card to hand.
You’re a bright and ingenious lad, Bill. .. . R.L.S.
(France) : You’re quite right, but it’s no good com-
ing at it again, just now at any rate. Good luck. .. .
11.11.: “Circumstance of Fate” was better done by
Alfred Tennyson and some others. .. .11.8. : “Broken
Doll” is no more bur style in the new dress than
it was in the old. . . .11. M.: “Mother Love” is an
old story with no fresh turn.... Iraq: Verse wouldn’t
be bad but for the false ' rhymes. ... A. 8.C.:
“Father’s Damper” doesn’t work. Can you imagine
any Australian servant talking like that?
AAV.V.K.: Beer yarn too obscure. ... B.B.: “Great
Adventure” doesn’t amount to anything. ... G.8.N.:
Cheerful idea, but not up.... Dado: Won’t do. About
the rhymes “royal” and “spoil,” can’t you see
tnat the first is two syllables and the second one?
Epsilon : Machine-made, . . .E.L.S.: Painfullv
commonplace M.H.S.: Faint hint of merit, but
nothing striking. At best it is only a parody....
Lord T.: Mad yarn, but not mad enough to thrill
us... . Casual Cove: Those poplar trees are uninter-
esting vegetables A.S.A.: An idea so simple
requires skill to work it out J.V.B. : Sorry you
stake so much on it, but it isn’t' up. .. .M. : Good
idea. Wants better handling. Try again....
Alfonso: No. . . .jd.A.E.: rt’s a remarkable effort, but
what’s it about? Sample:-
Mill William Hughes who “alone” “hues” with
others in his “home”
Remember it is the biggest “contest” ever vet was
known?
When a foreign foe “hues" too to clear our country
tor his own,
And even kings lie would dispose and take awav tb'ir
throne.
Then noble Hughes who “onlv hues" (?) Vustrrlia
to “uphold.”
Could use his hewing powers and hue the foe, less
he take hold.
. ...5.1.5.: “Three Times” is horrible. “Outward
Bound” might be the foundation for a sensational
novel. It is no use as a short story. . . .A.L.Mc.:
A erses not up.... G. U. 11.: Not enough skill for a
tragedy like that P.J.O’L.: Wooden verse
S. : Too slight Oma Cah: You’t;e a rough
workman; and the thought is too weak to stand
that bumpy handling. .. .L.-W.: The incidents are
too trifling. Humorous telling might have made
them go. . . ..T.G.: Won’t do, though much improved.
But don’t try to rhyme “laud” with “adored”
J. Your “Royal scene of Grecian beauty”— why
“royal” the Lord knows ; —is no good. .. . A.M.L.:
Couldn’t you make any move of it than that?....
K. : Too weak; but why do your longing in a
dancing measure? A.A.E.: “Pines” must go back.
Ve 11 hold “Pamela’s Hands” for inquest on their
pinkness. .. .R.F.: Yarn no use; and several pages
of the copy are missing Danstewer: Interesting
to know that Juno is now made up with paint and
salve. Haven’t met the old lady lately G.G.:
Noted that you walked with her in the • moonlight
am’ the starshine as well as the radiant moonlight
and the silent starlight and that you were still
tramping her up and down at dawn. Was it rain-
ing that you couldn’t sit down ?. . . .L.M.8.:
Aery poor verse. . . .Ah Gee: Old idea not improved.
.. . . Na Tioti: Your yarn has no atmosphere and
.you don’t make your Maori in the least like a Maori,
the tale might be boiled down into a para-
graph. . . .C.M.M.: Not _ up, but some promise. . .
T. : Awful verse on a subject written to death....
Six-per-cent.: Story too obvious... .Friar Tuck: Fear
the theme is wasted Caga: Just mud....E.C.:
Stocking tragedy won’t do Bellerive: That’s fine.-
Deprived are fond mothers
Of husbands and sons,
The bread winners of their
Innocent little ones.
The guns are silenced
And the crows of prev
Scoop o’er the lifeless
After the fray ;
, ' Tainted alas are the
Winds that blow
O’er the blackened fields
Of death and woe.
As the sulphurous smoke
Doth drifteth away
Grim is the carnage
After the fray.
C.J.: “The impounding of stock after a sleep
of 50. years” sounds a good subject; but the verse
might, as well have been on the cutting of the garden
lawn with a broken beer bottle for all we can make
of it E.N.: “French Charmer” is dull stuff
C.Q.F.: Hint of promise in it, but only a hint.:.!
E.J.C.: Rambling yarn about nothing in particular
Returned....T.T.T.: “Daily Plodder” heavy fooling!
.. . .H.M.: An old story badly told R.J.J.A •
“Revenge” isn’t much of a yarn, though the telling
is greatly improved.... David: Have seen worse first
attempts. .. .S.R.: Same old horseplay for humor....
C.C.IJ.: Too often told before with minor variations.
... . Hopbooze: “Ballyakker” too long. Yarn might
have made a paragraph The Mug: Verse too
rough.... F. 5.8.: Very crude stuff... .H.R.McD •
There’s no meat in a yarn like that D.K.: “Man
in the Dugout” is awful verse I.L C • Lament
able.... 8.C.: “The Year After” expires with a
roaring sigh . ...A.G.J.: Verse not up; article
very commonplace’.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.D.M.; Two artistic boomerangs A.M.L.: No,
Ikey.... A.D.L.: Jf it s a riddle we can’t guess it.
. ...A.C.: About seven years too soon. .. .Lanark:
Forced humor—poor drawing. .. .1.5.8.: Very small
and thin M.C.8.: Feeble flick Francis L-
Good idea; will use AA’.A.C.; It’s a good joke.
We-thought, so when we first published it 15 years
ag0....E.L.: Declined with yawns... .A.G.F.: No
suggestion of humor in the drawings. . . .Heron;
Obvious. . . .R.G.F.: Out in one hit. .. . W.M.d.M.:
A fuzzy nightmare Les N.: Rash boyish experi-
ments in color and line. No value J.R.D.:' Can’t
use it. .. .L.M.8.: Your little girl’s hind-leg is all
wrong
.Troubles, political and otherwise—mostly
otherwise—have got the .promising Durack
down for the moment. Besides resigning the
IVS.W. Labor leadership he has retired from
the contest for even a seat in E’arliament.
But a man like this must come again.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
e»
At the War.
m
&8Bt*&*8&3
wMMMm
1 :
?yiS
I
w:&
-sea
ssw
sas
mm
iHiS®
>^o'¥i§oWM
»£>£<
S| 11 11 1 1
iiilSliftß
ISS
&g&msSm
mm
m
m - iPpS
SM
MSS*
Sgft';
?&££
IlIMi
mmmz
:m
f&W,
mm
->^yV
iiili|gir :
£-S?-
*£K
B * Si *®W***
■-;.
.tsV' hf.
B^Sl
t*£iu
■ /•>- 5
fee
«ssi
r v . >
v'C'vfc
i#i
’■'. \ .-:.''ir
WM&
mm
; - iM
mm
i«SBS
BSHKHI
or--
'SSI&i
W
I
«
s-vpp
?;>i»l
:SS&?
*
..A
--'A.*
S*Sss
Bra
£<M£2
r
mm
I«
WSgKß&fs&&%
H
RH
H
MHW
Wv w
sSgsg£s3f.
$ ft:'
«teKVw»V<V--A4>«
Bag®
!&!s>.
WmUXL
•v
ill®
■;-, -v:
Utl
S«®
3&S
TfeP!
SSsssssi
Mi
IflifS
SvA&i*;
siSSffi
1
I
sr.
m
s
fefllis
': :y "
**llßßl
v - ;• ■
Sis
&vV£
US
m^M
I mSV&V:
%Mit&
ff'-r.-
■am
Ml:
m
m
m mm
.' .•.;.-^4®Bvg
Ses
s
gnei
.'-rtffMW,
* -v>. - l •.Mr •: *Si£r .
*ito3rp*)
> •■
Jl
7
1
*eSSf&t
1
'n* .0?
t 0
>€
yC^'^V-
rxts>>u~
Jr*
O <^Ms
r u L
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
In a nightdress
White and blue,
Steals across the
Gleaming snow,
Bent on stirring
Up the foe.
Bomb and bludgeon
Do the trick,
And the armed ‘‘ghosts’
Make Fritz sick.
“Kamerad!” the
Scared Huns shout.
“‘COBRA’S’
come to
Clean us out!”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with \\ ireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Lnxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place,
__ Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailing's as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
B RISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
♦ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOM.Y (4000 Tons;.
Leaves Sydney, March 10.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 14.
Leaves Sydney, March 17.
BURWAII (Cargo only ).
Leaves Melbourne, March 20.
Leaves Sydney, March 24.
Melbourne
(Transhipping for
S.A. and XV. A. ports)
•Passengers only.
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (SOOO Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 10.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking-, Public Companies. &c.
THE
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Uo £1,198,079
RESERVE FUND kg^OOO
IIEAI) OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Tiireadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
, Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
1 obman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales,* Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
w o / ealanc L a " d J* 11 the principal towns of the
01 G - C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon
wiITTAM E nA S VT^ W^ EY ’ Kt - (Deputy Chairman);'
WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. H. MACARTNEY, M L \ ■
K. BT PH,LP - a. 7
General Manager: .1. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Office: 253 George Street
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NFW
SOUTH WALES
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BAnST
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30 19 9 l
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
I aid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. , . ~ OOO 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock ’ 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Dirfxtous—Geo. Edwd. Bunning Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Giay, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq •
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. IT. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —AV. V. RALSTON
HEAD OFFICE - - . BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland.
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
.£2,000,000 0
. 1,900,000 0
. 2,000,000 0
£5,900,000 0 0
directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . Chairman
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputv-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F Knox Fsa
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs "
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South AVales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World. V S
Bank of Deui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529 988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750 000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500 000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118 605
Britain and Ireland
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
at Interest for
- fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) anti HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning: by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer'at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalleil Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and R.SI.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.’’
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
Foi illustiated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
i
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
+w
Directors
£3,705.320
£2,725.003
£3.705,320
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G..
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, c.Ai.oi., AI.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
~ Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. ; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Hea s l°D ffiC^ _Geo , ree St " London Office—29 Thread needle St. EC
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London '
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
I I | RnSSELT. PRFNCH. General Manager. '
Coiiimonu’t'altl’itfeSanl; •• Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking* Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cabl f>i,,?":“ a r, S i" ,ad f tC I - , an ', l drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
Bankin- an!f Ev^han“o d R L °- eCted ‘f Letter3 , of credit issued to any part of the world,
wealth iif; J ? Business of every description transacted within the Common-
«S' i .' ted kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities. merest Pam on
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At a.II Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
2600
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
iwie.KblAlE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1916
DENISON' MILLER, Governor
SAVING MONEY
systematically lias a twofold reward—it develops character and builds up capital
which can be turned to good use.
This Bank Offers You Every Facility for Saving.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards. Interest oaid at 3f p.c. on every £ up to £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State. No Agencies at Tost Offices.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
The STA I E Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank that pays 3f per cent, interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF FORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all I.orth-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
March 9 and April 6.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, March 10.
-PARINGA, March 17.
RUPARA, March 24.
fI Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
nli lor ca A w 'th other Inter-State Companies
r.c n . * ■ sel ' vices subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Oiiice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., 1,T1>.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Wimmera,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Victoria.”
“Riverina,” “ Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMO A—H O.NOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
' pp'.v OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO„- Brisbane ; McILWRAITII,
McEACHAIIN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
1 WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
-teamer, £6 Ss. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE. 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
LxyJvna,
CURES ECZEMA.
Issy Davis, the proprietor of the Victoria Hotel,
Ooolgardie, a long sufferer from Eczema, writes to
Mr. Fielder on 12th December, 1916, stating that he
saw the advertisement regarding Exzerma in Thk
Bulletin, and after using one bottle found it was
all that it claimed to be. “It gave instant relief, and
effected a permanent cure.’’ He spread the good
news among a lot of sufferers who were very thank-
ful. Write S. Fielder, Randwick, for particulars.
[1
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER, Rand-wick.
5/-, 2/6
V'Mwr*'»» f rn ni »rr r rrg;
sKy> i Ui
iiii.i.iiiin.i i
Nickel plated, silver plated and brass
faucets are kept laughingly bright
without trouble by thisVonder polish.
Two sizes. Sold by all Grocery, Hard*
ware and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo on Can
'KING OF METAL POLISH
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
A. should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hoi-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tk,
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


The nonOKiddingt
My non-sK>ddiV)gj||
Si
Economy
Security
Comfort
these are the.
principal qualities
Non-SKid Tyre
1- Economy- because it resists to cuts
2 Security,- because it is non-slipping and remains solo the end
3 —Comfort because it is as easy riding as a plain lyre
Michelin Tyres can be obtained at leading Dealers and Garages.
George
St. Kiiaa,
HOTEL,,
Melbourne.
.Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia,
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the iargest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per (lay,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH. Manager.
fgs
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
> WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You’ll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents: —
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
prj.Collis Brownes
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE ISEST MEDICINE FOlt
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of lIRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts shoi-t all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKK A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England , i/3, 3/-, o/-,
Made in-England.
n
I
'J-i
mm
THE BEST
SMOKE
is
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
mi
ake\You r
Ow A v
an
We/ have machines exactly suited
your .needs, whether ■ your output is 500»V
or 1,00,000 Cans per day. \ \
W r e will glaqly send, without obliga-^
tion, prices and pictures lof machines
adapted to yourf Serud us sapiples
of your cans,!or with com-
plete dimensions, and state, jthe quantity
you make. j j
Correspondence in all Languages.
Address Dept. C-14.
The Max Ams Machihe Com'pany
Bridgeport, CdLnn.
H. VV. >V;tl»o(l,y & Co., Sydney, Australia.
m
■■
Above all,
Wear
Comfortable Shoes
But there’s no need to sacrifice
style for comfort.
Abbey Shoes are not only well-
made and stylish, hut are decidedly
COMFORTABLE.
They are made in half- and quarter-
sizes and *n three fittings, namely
‘Narrow, Medium and Wide.
We illustrate one of our latest
styles—a Patent Golosh Bal,' Dull
Calf Legs, Perforated Golosh.
Price - 37/6
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUIt CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (j.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
UMP
S/s
Agents:
Bsnnstt S Barkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycls Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
25-
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, spine
‘after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A, MURPHY, VVoy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.


■
Mif
1
1
?V,.'
r
The Best Value
in Square Treads
BARNET GLASS Square Tread
Tyres are of striking value. Test
their value —their thickness of
rubber and price with foreign, neutral
tyres. You save 40 to 75 per cent, on
Barnet Glass Square Tyres, size 815 x
105, costing £6/1 1/0. You save equally
as much in proportion in the other sizes
BARNET GLASS Tyres challenge
the world for sheer, honest Value
and Performance. 5 World’s
Records were recently put up on Barnet
Glass Tyres. Have these Australian,
made Tyres fitted to your car.
All Reputable Garages throughout
Australasia stock them.
// /s/ r"
m
V
Oi
Tyres
“Miles cheaper
and Australian
Birch & cakkorl,
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heah Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Missing: Friends.
WILLIAM JOHN BROWN, last heard
of by letter, written about -0 years
ago, from G-Xalta Station, via Broken Hill, is
entitled to share with other relations in the
Estate of his Uncle. SAMUEL HAMMETT
BROWN, deceased. If living, please com-
municate at once with P. D. PHILLIPS,
FOX & OVEREND, Solicitors, 414 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
IN
BANANA LAND
The old-time Queensland bushrangef was
not an unreasonable fellow, after all. A 50-
year-old Rockhampton Bulletin tells how
a Mr. Brady, of Brady’s claim, Clermont,
was “stuck up in his buggy four miles out
of town by a man' who would not quit his
hold of Mr. Brady’s horse unless he got a
pound.. He also threatened to blow out Mr.
Brady’s brains if his demands were not com-
plied with, at the same time drawing a thick
stick from the breast of his coat. Mr.
Brady deemed it useless to offer resistance.
After a few words with the highwayman
half a crown settled the business.” Here
was a knotty affair settled on a basis of half
a crown in the pound, to the perfect satis-
faction of both parties. Those were the days !
Queenslander Charlie McDonald, Speaker
of the Reps., continues to keep a doctor
bandy. His trouble is “nerves,” which re-
fuse to be soothed by week-ends “down the
Bay.” What the sick man requires is a
long spell of idleness, but bis conscience
makes him captious of deserting his chair
just now.
“Trot” : The Bananaland Ministry, forti-
fied by a judgment of the High Court valid-
ating the State’s stock-export embargo, and
using the tick legislation as a further instru-
ment of restraint, last week defied a Federal
Government order under the War Precau-
tions Act, and so provided another cheerful
rt minder of Australian unity. The validity of
the Federal Government’s order is a doubtful
proposition; had it been a sure thing it
would have been produced long ago. Cer-
tainly nothing that has been said by the
High Court about fhe War Precautions Act
justifies the Federal Government’s apparent
assumption that this Act will be viewed by
that Court as an instrument of greater force
than the Constitution itself. The Common-
wealth having failed to establish that the
Bananaland hold-up was unlawful, some
clever hair-splitting would be necessary to
prove that the lawful act became unlawful
simply through the Federal Government
declaring in effect that the High CoiH't was
wrong. But all this matters nothing to
Costs. Meanwhile, Ryan, with his tongue
in his cheek, hanging on to the Bananaland
beef and yelling “Imperial meat,” is a fine
subject for the decoration of the marble halls
at Canberra.
One of the best-known of Australian
mariners crossed the bar when Captain
William Eaton went out at Brisbane a few
days ago. In the beginning Eaton had a
stirring life on the Western seas. After a
spell with Mcllwraith McEacharn he joined
the A.F.S.N. as third mate of the Fitzroy
in 3887. and subsequently at various times
was master of the steamers Croydon, Euriin-
bla, Barcoo, Yaralla, Warrego and Aranuic,
finally leaving the co.’s service in 1904. A
couple of weeks ago the old salt sailed into
a Marine Board meeting with a hand
swathed in bandages, the result of a tram
accident. Tetanus developed, and lie lasted
only a couple of days in hospital.
“Koikoi-ias”: The manufacture of paper-
pulp from certain noxious grasses by ex-
Archdeacon Campbell in Cairns is of parti-
cular interest to Papuan planters in so far
as the experiments relate to the grass' pest
of the territory, kiira-lcura. The astonishing
vitality of this pest and the enormous area
which it covers promise extensive industries
if the Queensland pulp comes up to adver-
tisement. For years the most vital question
in New Guinea planting circles was the.
stamping out of leura-kura; but it baffled all
“cover” crops, so far as I can learn, and
caused no end of expense.
“Dry Shave”: Brisbane clairvoyants and
soothsayers have been invited to come out
and prove their supernatural powers. The
bait is £25, and the test a simple one; but
up to the present not one of the humbugs has
even nibbled. It’s easier money snaring
half-sovs. from victims. . The clairvoyant
crowd is on a good wicket in Bananaland
just now, beine allowed to carry on its
frauds unchecked ; and (he war has brought
plenty of business.
Died at Queensland’s Manly, just outside
Brisbane, sturdy old John McDonnell, an
Australian of 64 years’ standing, who in his
time played many parts. McDonnell com-
menced His Queensland career with a clerk-
ship in the police, and in that capacity laid
the foundations of the Dunwieh Benevolent
Asylum. Subsequently he rose to be Under-
Sec. of the Post and Telegraph Department.
A man of many activities he was one of
Queensland’s military enthusiasts; but an
insidious climate cut him off at 88 with his
work still undone.
The Soul Changeling.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I sit in my corner, out of the way
of the wind,
In the house of the little windmill, what
do you think I find?
Meg. the mother who bore me (who proves
it by many a blow
Because of my gipsy father, who fled from
her long ago),
Would cuff me if she caught me, and say
there was much to do
Out there in the stubbly meadow where the
winds come shrieking through.
I was ever a lover of sunshine or of sitting
snug and still.
And l have a. magic corner in the house of
the little mill!
Meg may be a wizar/l-woman —the neighbors
call her so—
But the stairs I find to my castle never her
feet shall know.
I, in my shabby cap and smock; I. with
my brown feet bare,
Have a velvet jacket and tasselled boots
when I spring up my fancy stair !
There I live* in a great grey castle by a sea
that is always blue;
Where the noisy, long-billed seagulls are fish-
ing the whole day through ;
Where a boat with a furled sail trembles on
the delicate sob of the tide,
And the sand is gold as a marriage ring, and
the foam is white as a bride.
And through the slits of the windows, from
the couch of purple and gold,
I can see, in a land of sunshine, the world
of the seas unfold ;
While a wonderful, dark-browed woman
weaves into her ’broidery frame
'l’lie shimmer of silver waters and the rose
of the sunset’s flame.
And when she looks in my dreaming eyes
with eyes so like my own,
I think of Meg with her yellow neck and
her red hair outward blown ;
And I know, pinched here in my corner, so
sick for the dear eyes’ shine,
That the woman there in the castle is the
one true mother of mine!
When I am grown I shall seek her, though I
pass to the gates of Death ;
I shall find that dreamland castle in the
wide seas’ open breath ;
And over the rim of the rainbow, the jo3 r
in my feet shall run,
With her eyes like my own eyes watching
to welcome her changeling son !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 3, 1917.
My Dear Tiiargo.mi ndati, —
It’s not the I.WAY. this time, but the
Governor! He unfurled the flag at the new
Seamen’s Institute a day or two ago, and in
an accompanying speech hinted darkly that
it was just about up to shipowners to better
the conditions of firemen. This at a time
when shipowners are almost on the verge of
starvation!
Miss Forsythe, a Queensland girl who
some years back went to convert the un-
gentle heathen in German East Africa, has
just got letters through to her sister. The
missionary was imprisoned by the Square-
heads in May, 1915, and was not released
until Belgian troops took Tabora in Sep-
tember, 191(1. From Tabora she and other
Christians journeyed by caravan for 14 days,
and finally got into touch with Colonel Mont-
gomery,- who is head of the British Red
Cross work in that part of the world. Miss
Forsythe was at a place called Nairobi when
she wrote home, and was none the worse for
the rough time she had experienced.
When the news reached Gympie that
Arnold Wienholt, who was also taken
EN VOYAGE.
LADY (to hoy who has sniffed repeatedly): “Have you a handkerchief, boy?”
SNIFING BOY: "Yes, Mum, hut not to lend!”
prisoner in East Africa by the Huns, had
given them the slip and was safe with his
unit, it ran up .all the available bunting
and bought itself a milk cocktail. The
Wienholt family is very popular all over
Bananaland.
Nine Queensland nurses will shortly leave
for the warring fields, and appeals are being
made for money to complete their equipment.
It must be got, too, since the Defence De-
partment does not give the devoted Bill-
jimima enough to properly tit herself out for
her strenuous job. It’s a shameful and pal-
try position to put Australia in; but, then,
what chance has Australia of dealing with
the responsible department? I suppose the
excuse is that when you’re shovelling money
into the gutter somebody has to go short.
Flight-Lieut. Keith Ross Munro, who re-
cently married Betty Styles, an English girl,
is on his way home with his young wife on
six months’ furlough. His people are the
Ross Munros, of Boombah station.
May Allan, elder daughter of James
Allan, senior partner of Allan and Stark,
has changed her name to Mayne. The fortu-
nate one of the partnership is Surgeon C- F.
Mayne, R.N., who was mentioned in dis-
patches from Gallipoli. Captain Marshall
Allan, D. 5.0., also a surgeon, served at
Mesopotamia.
Tretty little Ray Collins, daughter of C.
G. Collins, has accepted a diamond half-hoop
from Pte. R. It. Randall, of the Australian
Flying Corps.
T. .T. McMahon, a wandering pressman
who takes a cocker spaniel with him on his
walkabouts, and who enjoys a host of inky
friends all over Australia, gave an address
on Central Now Guinea and the industries
of Papua at the Geographical Society’s
meeting on Thursday night. His Ex. was
among the interested congregation.
Albert Hinchcliffe, M.L.C., and his wife
left for Sydney on Friday. Albert goes south
to manage The Worker. Mrs. T. .T. Ryan
gave a tea in honor of the departing lady,
and Albert was regretfully farewelled by a
number of Labor organisations.
The pineapple farmers are bewailing their
luck. The crop was so plentiful this year
that the fruit is being given away at the
markets, and growers have been told that
they needn’t send any more in. Of
course all the surplus ought to go to a
canning factory. Tinned pineapple is good,
as thousands of Australians in camp (to say
nothing of the thousands of half-starved
children of our Allies) would quickly let us
know. It’s appalling that tons of this food
should rot while women and children whose
men gave their lives for out safpty should
light with the dogs for scraps.
It happened at the theatre the other night,
and although the well-fleshed dame had some
reason for what she exclaimed I think that
—well, perhaps she overdid it. She was
leaning well over the front row of the dress-
circle, when suddenly there was a sharp
smack and a bark of fury. The boy who sat
up in the gods directly above the dowager
had dropped his ice-cream !
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The Ryan Government is amending its
policy with regard to. beetle-catchers. Of
course, it still stands by the appointment of
a Yank as boss-exterminator of the sugar-
cane grubs, but it is altering the arrange-
ment under which the gentleman was
authorised to bring along a regiment of
students in the art. Mere Australians an
to be permitted to observe the imported
article and act as his disciples. It k
expected that the results will be to give tin
local entomologist further chances later on.
Things seem a bit unevenly divided. For
instance, compare these two weekly allow-
ances :
Tim Queensland S<A- Tub Queensland Sugar.
d,eh r,m Field:
Meat, lOjlb. Meat, 141 b.
Potatoes, 71b. Potatoes, 101 b.
Butter, none. Butter, 12oz.
Jam, 28oz. Jam, 240 z.
Tea, 3ioz. Tea, Boz.
These are only a few of the outstanding
discrepancies. The full list is more astound-
ing still.
Passed out at Maryborough, Osmond
Burris, a relic of the Indian Mutiny and a
veteran with a vivid memory of the unpleas-
antness of Lucknow and Cawnpore. The
old man had a pitiable end ; he was located
lying face downwards in a pool of water 18
inches deep.
When Ilenry Schneider, of Nerang, found
his surname growing unduly troublesome,
he swapped it for Carlton, but did not live
long enough to get used to the new title.
Deceased was a much better Australian than
his old name would indicate. He was Eng-
lish-born and came to Queensland fresh from
a smart scholastic and athletic career at
Trinity College. Oxford, in 1860. He was
one of the pioneers of the sugar industry in
the Nerang district, and between whiles
dabbled in natural history. There is a son
on the Big Job.
The Jewish Congregation of Brisbane
made merchant A. M. Ilertzberg a present of
an illuminated address the other day to com-
memorate his completion of 50 years’ resi-
dence in Queensland. Ilertzberg, who is
Prussian born, did not wait till fhe war
broke out to become an Australian, but got
himself naturalised 46 years ago, and has
been a sturdy patriot ever since, more than
once incurring the dislike of Queensland
Teutons by telling them their Teutonism
ought to go overboard when they land in
Australia.
It happened at Sandgate, Brisbane’s chief
seaside resort. A returned 35th Bat'talion
man was endeavoring to prove that it was
up to some of the local eligibles to heed
the call of their mates in France and give
them the chance of a rest. - “Garn, what did.
you get when you came back?” queried one
of the group, expecting the remark to prove
a knockout. Quick came the retort of Bill-
jim, an ex-rep. at a Western shearing-shed:
“What did I get? I got respect, and that’s
more than you’ll get when the boys come
home..”


r
nn
%
-n
icm
*lO
Jl
X
•<3
' u -£-jr
$
C 3
*
WI«S
•Vk
<?
Touring Cars.
Roadsters. Vans.
The car that’s built to
stand up through any service
A MAN’S interest in a motor-car usually centres on
its reputation for endurance. And right there is
where Studebaker stands pre-eminent.
Whether you seek to judge Studebaker enduiance as it
applies to the life of the car or its ability to overcome road
conditions ot the worst kind, the result will be the same
—Studebaker supremacy.
The
y
Studebaker car has proved its endurance many times
here in Australia, notably in its record runs, includ-
over
ing that from Fremantle to Sydney in under nine days, and in that from Sydney to IF is )ane, on \
a few weeks ago, over flooded roads, through heavy driving ram, in houis, including a stops.
The same car has since broken the record from Murwillumbah to Lismore, via Mullumbimbi and
Byron Bay, in 2 hours 50 minutes, again through driving ram.
We know there are some who as vet have not seen the wonderful qualities of the Studebakei demonsti ated,
to o-ive such demonstrations whenever called upon to do so.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.,
State Importers
Head Office and Showroom: 177 EL1ZABE I H S TREE I,
Garage, Workshops and Warehouse : GLENriORE ROAD, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA—Messrs. TURNER BROS., 398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE. • ftpiSBANE
QUEENSLAND —THE CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY LTD.. Creek and Adelaide streets, BRiSBA .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONs LTD., 95-99 Pulteney. Street, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA —THE ARHSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIA W. GAHAGAN, Collins Street, HOBART ; CORRICK'S GARAGE, Br.sbane Street, LAUNCEsTON.
NE/V ZEALAND—ADAMS LTD., CHRISTCHURCH.


Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS,
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
Just a Little
Sani-Flush
sprinkled in the toilet bowl every few
days will keep it white and sanitary.
It will make a hitherto odious task
easy. No dipping of water —no
scrubbing.
Sani-Flush
is unique nothing else like it.
It is meant to clean toilet bowls only
and does it thoroughly. Make sure
of a sanitary, odorless bowl by using
Sani-Flush regularly.
Ask Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush or can
get it quickly; or write us a card giv-
ing your dealer’s name and we will
■
k V ww**
▼ h»> * r<» p 'j
tvliichyoti
S3B,
have you
supplied.
Sani-Flush
should be
used in all
residences
and other
buildings
where there
are toilet
bowls.
Does not
injureplumb-
ing connec-
tions.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N. Z»
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
\Y/lien you want
a Soap to cleanse
the skin thoroughly, keep it
in healthy condition, and
remove all traces of
perspiration —get
Toilet Soot
" A good Soap to choose for
everyday use—pure, pleasantly
perfumed and antiseptic.
In 3 tablet boxes - from
local Chemists & D ulers.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.
Manchester, England.
JASON
UNDERWEAR
British Made n
from Australasian Wool.
i
BEFORE.
AFTER
for
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(SPILLfIRINE
The results obtained from the
use of CAPILLARINE as a
Moustache grower are regarded as '
wonderful by all who have ex-
perienced its merit. It is a
genuine Moustache producer.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
Established over SO Years.
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
IV/
The
TRESS
reg? mark
guarantees
■—
Qua/ity
Finish
'^Character
Hats
AND
CAPS
Of <3/1 Frrsf-c/jss f/sti&rs tfroughoc/f fhe Commonwcal/h
WHOLESALE OF TRESS 6 C?L TD LONDON ENGLAND
SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearings.
Adapter bearing
as used in
Plummer Blocks.
Save 25% to 90% power,
USED FOR.
LINE SHAFTING
MACHINERY
FANS
PUMPS
WINDMILLS
VEHICLES
dfg
s
Call and see us and eliminate Radial bearing showing
friction. Self-aligning.
We have 10,068 bearings in stocK—Radial, Thrust and
Double-thrust, lig'ht, medium and heavy.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
MELBOURNE: 57 Queen Street; SYDNEY: 334 Kent Street;
BRISBANE: 360 Queen Street.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years' experience : the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
saM
THE
SOLDIERS’
PEN.
F©«« TPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue. Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only>:—
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St., Sydney
dfg
-t\ONA
<r
HR
5 P
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £630,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M, STRACIIAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. AVREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. 3. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
MACHINERY. "LANZ” SUPERHEATED STEAM ENGINE-Condensing Type.
TENDERS will be received up to Monday, 16th April, 1917, for the purchase of a new “Lanz” patent
cross compound jet condensing superheated steam locomobile for burning low-grade fuel —may be
used for belt drive or direct coupling. The locomobile is capable of developing—
-115 B.H.P. as a normal economical load, 140 B.H.P. continuous maximum load,
160 B.H.P. temporary maximum overload,
when running at 200 l'.p.m., exhausting into condenser, and with 1701 b. per square inch pressure »t
engine stop valve.
Superheater, feed water heater, jet condenser, air pump, boiler feed pump and all accessories for com-
pleting erection are supplied. The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
For further details apply to:— “SUPERHEATER,” c/o Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne..
A more or less personal note from Edward
Dyson :
The oldest remaining theatrical landmark in Vic-
toria is booked for destruction. The Theatre Royal
property, in Sturt-street, Ballarat, is to be dis-
mantled in favor of a boot factory. The foundation
stone was laid in or about 1863, and for some time
G. V. Brooke was sole lessee, playing Shakspeare to
“crowded benches.” It is 40-odd years since the
Royal went out of business as a theatre, but I have
a vivid recollection of the place as the magical home
of the first play I ever saw, a little, narrow, dark,
cobwebbed, musty place, suggesting a den for devilish
conspirators, and just the home for a harrowing
drama with a big-buckled pirate and a village milk-
maid in it. About three fillings of an ordinary Black
Maria would have emptied G. V. Brooke’s “crowded
benches.”
Cyril RitchardSj who dances as the satyr
with Maie Baird in “The Pink Lady,” has
skipped ahead at record speed. A little
while ago he left the Sydney Uni. and
joined the J.C.W. people in the chorus of
the “Waltz Dream” revival. At the end
of the co.’s run in Sydney, he was trans-
ferred to the chorus of “The Cinema Star,”
also understudying a part. After a while
he was given the job of understudy to Leslie
Holland. Now, after being on the stage for
only about two months, he is the male solo
dancer of the Royal Comics.
“Silas” : I am all for a censorship of pic-
tures if the benevolent autocrat will agree
to snip out the doggy heroine. This, I
admit, is extremely drastic, since at least two
out of every three American heroines put in
much of their valuable time hugging and
mugging one abominable brand of pup or
another. In three film plays hung out this
week we are favored with a dog star who
either cherishes a tyke because it is a
faslronable vice, or romps and fondles a
poodle to demonstrate what a sweet-natured,
kind-hearted, affectionate and lovable little
thing she is. Apparently it is accepted as
an axiom in the cinema sphere that an
actress cannot expect to be a success in a
darling-girl part unless she is attached to
some stunted barrel-hound rescued from the
slums with his imperfections strong upon
him. Kindness to dumb animals begins to
mean tolerance of dirty habits.
“Ancient Prompter”: Where does the
parrot-cry of “too old at 40” come in with
the hardworking mummer class? The new
English (Stars we are to see in Australia, pro-
viding they stand the trip, are samples
of London’s fast-disappearing race of actor-
managers. The ages of the three —Marie
Tempest. Cyril Maude and Beerbohm Tree—
easily tot up to 180 years.
Muriel Starr is being acclaimed in N’York
as “a Canadian actress with a great Aus-
tralian reputation.” She plays the heroine
in a revival of “Gamblers All,” the part for-
merly taken by Madge Titheradge, who is
now making her first appearance in panto-
mime as Principal Boy in “Puss in New
Boots” at Drury Lane.
May Moore Duprez, whom Rickards
patrons knew and liked.- has just been
married in London to one Bertram C. Grant.
“M.P.A.” on movie production :
Herbert Wyndhain, the Hobart contributor to the
“Australian Film Gazette,” has only himself to blame
for my reference to him as “admittedly an amateur,”
a line to which “Pyro” (B. 22/2/’l7) takes excep-
tion. Wyndham is, firstly, a bio-operator, and any
movie operating he does is a. side-line. Some vears
ago, during a tour of the Speck, I met Wyndham,
who said he intended tripping to Melbourne, and
would like to meet the camera men there with a view
to picking up some points. I put him on the track
of Cross and Bertel, both experienced outdoor men,
and also Lyle, the Combine’s chief bio man. (Lyle,
by the way, came to Australia with the late T. J.
West, and was the first man to use high current
here.) Another cinematographer in a somewhat simi-
lar position is Coates, of the Loco Theatre, North
Melbourne. Coates came to .Australia with comedian
R. J. Knowles, of “On the Benches in the Park,” as
bio-operator, and quitted the show here. He was
originally with Jamison, of Dublin, the pioneer of
movies in Ireland, who ran the Rotunda Hall and
occasionally toured the distressful country. While
with Jamison, Coates dabbled in camera work, and
secured a fine picture of the late King Edward visit-
ing Dublin Castle. In this film Jamison was shown
shaking hands with his Majesty Edward. Years
afterwards Knowles saw this picture and secured the
negative, because he was' so struck with his own
i esemblance to Jamison. Lots of people subsequently
thought it was Knowles himself meeting- the King.
The fact that Coates handled a camera in the Cold
Country before such a piece of apparatus was thought
of here, or that Wyndham turned a camera handle
in Snazelle s time, does not give them any rights as
out-and-out camera-men. Several people in Australia
who have filmed millions more feet than Wyndham
ever saw are not yet competent to. take a job" with a
big standard producing- co. “The Mutiny of the
Bounty,” the best Australian subject to date, photo-
graphically speaking, taken by Frank Barrett, a
professional camera man, was only marred by the
amateurish application of the fade-out, the trick
which Bitzer, “The Birth of a Nation” and “Intol-
erance” camera genius, has so perfected. Neverthe-
less, with Australian productions the faults mostly
lie at the door of the so-called “producer.” Even so,
it is much to ask a man who is but intermittently
employed at the operating business to obtain results
that will compare with the work of people like Bitzer
and other experts who are always engaged. Inciden-
tally, of three movie studios erected in Melbourne
one is now used as a laundry, another as a store and
the third is full of cobwebs.
THE LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am an actor, sir. My art
Most sacred is to me,
But I am left without a pait,
Though young at sixty-three.
The call for Thespians is gone,
Superfluous we lag.
At picture plays folks gloat upon
A shadow on a rag.
Once store was placed on temp’rament,
Live artists moved and talked,
And everybody was content
If weekly one ghost walked.
Now dumb show is the only fare
To please the vulgar hosts,
And in the playhouse everywhere
There’s nothing walks but ghosts!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


VL
X
\
c
H
? o'
\ 5 ‘ .
r 6 s*
s'x.
*NcSk
H
n
SfM
©
m
M
v><*
f//
'/$-C~/t~f
Dveimmph Pictures
BY.—
OIAMPERLPiINS
Tablets -
One can never tell what day some member
of the family will come home sick.
Most people suffer more or less from
stomach, liver or intestinal trouble in
some form.
You never know what day some mem-
ber of your family will come home sick.
Sooner or later one of them will be
attacked with indigestion, become con-
stipated. suffer from biliousness,
jaundice, bloated, sour or weak stomach,
bad breath, lazy liver, sick headache or
some*kindred ailment.
Then you will need a safe and speedy
medicine to give immediate relief.
It is then that Chamberlain’s Tablets
will demonstrate their worth if given
the chance.
Chamberlain s Tablets will cleanse the
stomach, remove the sour, undigested,
fermenting food, take the excess bile
from the liver and carry out of the
system any waste matter or poison in
the bowels.
Take them occasionally, or when you
feel out of sorts, and they will prevent
these minor ailments which make you
feel good for nothing.
To ensure permanent good health in
your family see that all members take
Chamberlains Tablets
Jfor twl Stomach & Liver.
With old age comes inactive bowel
movement and sluggish liver. Through
weakness, nature is unable to perform
her proper functions, and requires assist-
ance ; without it there is constant suffer-
ing from constipation and its attendant
evils. Old folks should never use physics
that are harsh and irritating. With our
experience of the good results that have
been obtained by the use of Chamber-
lain’s Tablets we can unhesitatingly
recommend their use in preference to any
other medicine for aged people. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets are gentle and soothing
in their action, cannot possibly produce
a disagreeable effect, and are in every
way reliable and beneficial to the whole
system.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are the ideal
medicine for children. No more nasty
medicines that you have to coax the child
to take. After they have once taken
Chamberlain’s Tablets, and realise how
easy they are to take, they will be ready
for them again. They are perfectly safe
for the youngest child and their use will
not result in constipation.
When the quantity of food taken is too
large, or the quality too rich, sour stomach
is likely to follow, and .especially so if the
digestion has been weakened hy constipa-
tion. Eat slowly and not too freely of
easily-digested food. Masticate the food
thoroughly. Let five hours elapse between
meals, and when you feel a fullness and
weight in the region of the stomach after
eating, take Chamberlain’s Tablets and
the sour stomach may be avoided.
“.That tired feeling” is not always
caused by the weather, as some people
would have you believe. The fault
lies in some derangement of your diges-
tive organs. Your stomach is out of
order, as your liver has become sluggish
and refuses to perform its functions. All
you need is a dose or two of Chamber-
lain’s Tablets, and that feeling of weari-
ness will disappear.
Constipation brings many ailments in
its train and is the primary cause of
much sickness. Keep your bowels regu-
lar by taking Chamberlain’s Tablets,
and you will escape many ailments
which make life a misery. Constipa-
tion is a simple thing, but like many
simple things it may lead to serious con-
sequences. Nature often needs a little
assistance, and when Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets are taken at the first symptom of any
irregularity much suffering and distress
may be avoided.
DON’T blame your boy if he is at all
stupid and always at the foot of his class.
You are the stupid one, because you never
thought of his liver; that is where the
trouble lies. A sluggish liver makes a
sluggish mind. Chamberlain’s Tablets
act directly upon the liver and make you
feel bright and active.
Irritability,- like headache, is evidence
of some disorder of the body, generally
either indigestion or constipation, and the
cause must be removed. To relieve the
indigestion and stimulate the bowels to a
regular natural habit take a course of
Chamberlain’s Tablets. They have a
marvellous effect on the stomach, liver
and bowels, and relieve all disorders of
these organs.
It is anything but pleasant to awake
with a bad taste in the mouth. This
always arises from a disordered stomach
and may be corrected by taking a dose of
Chamberlain’s Tablets immediately before
retiring. They cleanse and invigorate
the stomach, improve the digestion and
give one a relish for his food. They are
easy to take and pleasant in effect.
MILLIONS rush in mad chase of
health from one extreme of faddism to
another, when, if they would only eat
good food and keep their bowels regulated
with Chamberlain’s Tablets their trouble
would at once pass away.
The fact that indigestion and constipa-
tion are fruitful causes of organic diseases
cannot be widely known, or these only-
too-common complaints would not be neg-
lected, as they frequently are. “It is
only indigestion” is a common remark,
and few realise that indigestion may be
termed “starvation of the body,” for food
that is not digested is not assimilated by
the blood and the body is not properly
nourished. Chamberlain’s Tablets will
relieve the most obstinate case of indi-
gestion. Many a long sufferer owes his
present good health to a course of Cham-
berlain’s Tablets.
Constipation resembles nothing so
much as the stopping of the sewerage
system of a city, and you know the out-
break of disease that would result if
this should happen. Then try to realise
the danger to yourself if you allow
your bowels to become clogged. The
poisonous matter which should pass off is
absorbed into the blood, which is the
cause of numerous diseases. When you
are troubled this way there is just one
thing to do—get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They cleanse and invigorate
the stomach and bowels, and clear the
system of all foul accumulations and re-
store it to a normal condition.
Indigestion and dyspepsia wear out
body and brain, for owing to imperfect
assimilation of food they do not receive
the required nourishment. Constipation
ensues and the victim becomes weak and
haggard. Chamberlain’s Tablets stimu-
late the digestive organs to perfect action,
compelling complete digestion and assimi-
lation of food, and strengthen the bowels
so that they act naturally and regularly.
s
<<
I PERFECTION in DESIGN.
MATERIALS sn i WORKMANSHI
0//
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
l
S#5S.
3
: =
,
?i§l£§fe
IS w
*W
SAXTON & BINNS’ NEW TUQ “SAXO.
60-h.p. “SKANDIA” ENGINE
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
drg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Mi
c*
VOV
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with ihe ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
12
10
ICNI
70/-
70/-
OUR NEW
CATALOGUE
is an excellent Guide for
Country Residents who desire
to avail themselves of our
splendid values in Gifts. We
send it Post Free.
Wristlet Watches
For Ladies and Gentlemen
THE “ELGIN” LEADER is a Reliable Timekeeper. It
has a Seven-Jewel Compensation Balance, Highly-Gilt Three-
quarter Plate Movement, Radium Hands and Figures, in Strong,
Sterling Silver Case.
Price, £3/10/-
Covered Strap Supplied if required.
C 7263. —LADY’S HIGH-GRADE KEYLESS
WATCH, fully-jewelled Lever Movement, in 10-vear Gold-
filled Case. Patent Expanding Bracelet. Price, 60/-
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street, Sydney.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Help ful
Advice to
Nursing Mothers
MANY mothers would like to feed their
own children, but are denied the privilege
of doing so, because they have not suffi-
cient nourishment for them. The “Allenburys”
scientific system of Infant Feeding has provided
for all this. When a mother is partly able to
feed her baby she may give The “Allenburys" Milk
Food No. I for alternate feeds, so alike are the
natural and prepared food in this instance, and this
food should be continued until the weaning process
has been entirely completed. The mother herself
must be well nourished and to this end may partake
freely of the “Allenburys" DIET a partially pre-
digested milk and wheaten food, which like the
Milk Food No. 1, is instantly made ready for use
by simply adding boiling water only. After
childbirth the "Allenburys" DIET is surprisingly
helpful in maintaining the strength and producing
a good flow of rich milk.
4£Uenbimjs Foods
The “Allenburys" FOOD?
For Infants.
Milk Food No. 1. Milk Food No. 2.
From From
birth to 3 months. 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3.
From 7 months upwards.
The ’Allenburys’ Feeder.
The Simplest and Best Feeding Bottle
on the Market. Easily cleansed by
flushing under the tap.
The “Allenburys" DIET
For Nursing Mothers.
Nourishment for General Us f
llenbums
MILK. * CLBCALFBOO
*"* •«'•» *|t»lM »*0« «•*»>> Un ‘ ,,, '
.JJ*' k r the aUitun of killing water o««r
to ou „ a lag he diet » UW»*
DYSPEPTICS U 4 Iht Atilß.
IwtN *fn ""*•
JJjfi 5 Hanbur is Ltd.. Lender
For Nursing Mothers, Invalids
Dyspeptics, and the Aged
The DIET is quite distinct from
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods lor Infants.
The Alleittnrys’ Rnsks
(Malted)
From 10 months upwards.
Write for free boak “Infant Feeding
and Management ” pages of valuable
information for every mother.
Ajlen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St., Sydney
Established 1715.
Mother and Child
Baby 6y 2 months ,
-A
Fed from birth on the ' Allenburvs*
Foods. _
a*
0
I.
Hf l --
<' ,t '*r
;£S«*H
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland!
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which you
are interested and full particulars will come to you by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence & Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
a
IB
IB El
' f?
nc
r 7?
n
vs
Si&
mm
l
-WRI
LEYS
s
'PER
CTGU
wlli
m
m
r
m
Off for
the Front!
Men and munitions are needed
munitions of every kind. Not alone
shells and guns and trappings, but
WRIGLEYS
the famous chewing sweet. The
men at the front are calling for
WRIGLEY’S every day.
It relieves thirst and fatigue. Helps
appetite and digestion.
3d. per packet
of 5 big
bars.
'Kxvof-
S TS
t*' t
Ct*9
fifS*
c
At Chemists, Confectioners and
Stores or send 3 penny stamps
to J. C. Gambles & Coy, Com-
merce House, Melbourne.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
The Flavour Lasts
78
Sealed tight
Kept right
A
MADE by Mr. James Mountney, Cap-
tain of the Gloucester Wagon Works
Miniature Rifle Club, Gloucester, England*
in competition, January, 1916, with
Remjnfton,
CARTRIDGES
(The targets reproduced are the standard
S.M.R.C. "Match” Targets at 25 yards in com-
petition for the Steinitz Cup.)
All ten shots may be covered easily, in the
original targets, with a threepenny piece.
Remington UMC cartridges are used by ex-
pert riflemen everywhere—they have a world-
wide reputation for accuracy and uniformity.
The Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
l). I). BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.


SMI It Be
MMtMr
a
%
Cuticura Soap
shampoos pre-
ceded by light
touches of Cu-
ticura Oint-
ment to the
(scalp sldn are
most effective.
They tend to
arrest falling
hair and pro-
mote a heal-
thy scalp.
Samples Free by
Post. Address
post-card: “R.
Towns & Com-
It IS up to YOU
Mmm
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ihg- Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910 'City. SYDNEY.
Mears.Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
L of:
m 3
m
h
m
m
mimmßsffii
ELEY ' Fourlong’
A .410 bore inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L° LONDON
ELEY *4lO
‘Universal*
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYD>EI.
Dirfctors —Hon A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. K.
Directors,. m h l ° c ; , v Hon _ Jas . Burns. M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.0.; Adrian <Cno.\, Esq., K.C.,
RICH ARDTEECE "’fAA., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPEULY Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
?mwz7Z2
■:--:-vv<-:-s
ft*
ft 4 .
—strongest Tyres known-
Palmer Cord Tyres embody strength. Each
individual cord is intensely strong. It is built up like an
electric cable, from numerous fine cotton threads all insulated
from one another in pure rubber.
Palmer Cords are strong,
elastic, friction-free, and damp-
rot-proof.
They scientifically restrain air-
pressure without wasting Engine
power. Their superiority over
canvas linings is ten per cent, more
distance per petrol gallon.
Palmer Cord Tyres are made
for Motor Cars of all weights,
Motor Cycles, and Ae'oplanes.
Palmer Fabric reinforces the lower-
priced Motor Cycle Tyres, ail Palmer
Cycle Tyre?, and the Tyres for
Auto-Wheels.
Both Cord and Fabric save internal friction.
literature free
from ■
MOTORTYRE AGENCY 1
The India Rubber, Gutta i
Percha and Telegraph
Works Co. Ltd-, j
270 George Street, Sydney.
and from Agency for
Motor Cycle & Cycle Tyre*.
The India Rubber, Cutta
Percha and Telegraph
Works Co. Ltd.,
279 George Street, Sydney.
s
COfSD TVIRIES
Calmer Cycle Tyre Users are cautioned
in their interests to purchase only
Tyres bearing the Trade Mark beneath.
TRADE
q\l»
£
MARK
(7)
PALMER TYRE, Ltd., Chief Office*, 119 to 123, Shaftesbury Av., London, W.C
The
A Splendid Toilet
Cream
I
t.
i
i
i
I
1
i
i
f
I
i
I
1
I
1
1
No matter what
you pay for it, you
can get nothing
better for your skin
and complexion than
Icilma Cream. This
is a big claim
but it's true. You
wonder how it can be
sold at its price ?
Let us explain:
Icilma Cream has the-
largest sale of any
British-made toilet cream
and is used by beautiful
women all over the world—
from far Japan to Southern
Patagonia, from Arctic
Russia to Equatic Africa.
For this reason, and this alone,
Icilma Cream can be sold m
Australia at 1/6 per pot.
Its vast success is due to the
Icilma Natural Water which it
contains-this stimulates the
skin and regulates the flow of
natural oils. Use it daily and
look your best.
Cream
The famous English toilet preparation.
Fragrant and non-greasy. Guaranteed not to grow hair.
Price 1/6 per pot.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Sihna.
T. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
Sole Australian Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbou .
The Inky Way.
“Billy B.”: The gag, “O death, where is
thy sting?” had a better application than the
one “Mario” mentions. It appeared in The
Bulletin many years back. First dead-beat
reading from the newspaper to second dead-
beat strikes the item that a man was
drowned in a vat of beer. Then the_ gag.
* * * *
No matter how much a man does to live
down the past, things are apt to come out.
When Dunbabin, a reporter on the Argus,
was put in the box to give evidence in the
A.J.A.’s case against the newspaper pro-
prietors, he had to give away the fact, which
he had managed to keep fairly dark, that he
held two University degrees —an M.A. and
another —and had put in three years acqun-
ing culture and other things at Oxford as a
Rhodes Scholar.
An Adelaide paper printed a batch of
birth-notices the other afternoon, and cynic-
ally added at the end a notice that two
respectable boys were wanted.
“Rustler” : One of the most novel competi-
tions for patriotic purposes was held re-
cently in a small Australian town. Ihe
local literary genius wrote a short story, sent,
it to The Bulletin for consideration, and
then invited a guessing competition as to
what the reply would be in tbe Answers to
Correspondents’ column.
“Hamer”: When the fatal stampede
occurred at the Sydney Boys Brigade Ilall
recently. Eddings, secretary of the ivlotor-
drivers’ Union, happened to be passing. He
dashed inside, and, after helping to sort out
the half-suffocated kids on the stairs, rushed
some of them to the Sydney Hospital in
his car. When he had done all he could he
thought he might reimburse himself for lost
time. So he whirled the scoop news down
to a daily paper bffice, carried reporters
round to the hospital where the gassed
youngsters were being revived, and then on
to the hall where the trouble occurred.
Next day he put in a bill for special ser-
vices. The scorn with which it was received
nearly blistered him. But he was told that if
he liked to put in a claim for car-liire it
would be paid—strictly according to the
law. This generosity probably got on
Eddings’s nerves. Anyway, next day his
car got in the way of a tram and was badly
smashed.
* * * *
Bertram Cook, of the Melbourne Herald,
remarked in giving evidence for the A.J.A.
in the Arbitration Court case that a chiel
of staff had to have an encyclopaedic
knowledge. Conley, of the S. M. Herald,
who was cross-examining, asked _ for in-
stances to prove this. “Mhy,” said hook,
looking round the court, “there s Mr. Biggs,
of the Age, and Mr. Brennan, formerly
chief of staff of the Argus, and—by the
way, Mr. Conley, you used to be a chief
of staff yourself, I think. “I was
snapped Conley, “but I never claimed to
have an encyclopaedic knowledge.’ No, ot
course not,” said Bertram ; your
natural modesty again.”
CONTEMPORARY PORTRAITS. —NORMAN
LINDSAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A soul that by unpunctual Fate
Was bovn three centuries too late,
Ilis charming insincerity
Is for the folks he meets, while he
Reserves, as in a shrine apart,
Sincerity for his dear art.
And yet he does not jeer at Life;
Art is his mistress, not his wife.
He is no abject worshipper ;
He’s not afraid to joke with her.
To her he kneels not—if you please,
He takes the jade upon his knees 1
No idleness in him can lurk,
This dipsomaniac of Work !
A pen and paper would suffice
To make of Hell a Paradise.
He has the hand, given to few,
That does the thing it means to do.
His soul, a brighter world to build,
With missionary zeal is filled ;
A Savonarola preaching joy,
A bigot who would gloom destroy,
A grim Inquisitor whose rack
Is for the wowser’s meagre back !
The real Australian Kid he drew.
Immediately that kid came true.
He limned a new Australian type
Of beauty, Rabelaisian, ripe;
And suddenly, alive, complete,
We recognised her on the street!
His turbulent creative rage
He cannot keep within one cage:
One art does not his hand requite—
Here’s pen and ink, and he must write,
lie prostitutes that pen of his
By making it draw sentences.
Wit h swift‘enthusiasms packed,
He is with zest of living racked.
From what strange world of heat it came
This lithe and leaping wind-blown- flame
That burns within his body frail?
His candle gutters in the gale.
And when he to his Hades goes
He’ll meet a lot of chaps he knows.
With Leonardo he will stop
For years—and won’t those two talk shop!
But he will mention that lie keeps
Ilis week-ends for one Sami. Pepys.
He'll look up Villon without fail—
He’ll have to call on him in gaol;
Eternity he’ll while away
Just listening to Rabelais:
And Casanova’s sure to tell
Some new ones —no, it won’t be Hell!
If human company he lacks
He’ll pat the centaurs’ glossy backs
And yarn with them, or for a span
He’ll take the track with goat-hoofed Pan,
Or meet a nymph who’s not too slim
And Hades will be home to him !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS'.


m
SR
i -
0
6
9
m
;
,Av
m
m
Within the Law
All traffic laws, rules and regulations are becoming
more rigid every day.
This is as it should be. Safety first.
All the more reason for having .the best speedometer
on your car - the Stewart Speedometer.
Without one you unconsciously break the law,
because no motorist can possibly estimate the speed of his
car without a speedometer.
Unless you do drive at a speed within the law, you
are liable to the embarrassment of arrest, the humiliation
of a trial and the possibility of a heavy fine.
Do not smile. It might happen to you any day, as
it has to thousands of others.
This magnetic speedometer is especially built for
Ford and other small-type cars.
Price only £3/10/- complete.
Priced low on account of our great production.
Why not get one and keep within the law?
Stewart products on a car are your safest
guide as to the quality of a car as a whole .
Mostf: cars are so equipped. In selecting your
next car try to have it equipped with a Stewart
Tyre Pump, Stewart Warning Signals, Stewart
Vacuum System and Stewart Speedometer„
It will cost you nothing more.
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor-car Dealers
and Garages, or write
Bennett Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.W.
The Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
“No car is better than its accessories.”
rdg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
GET A GUN
and Go Out for a Shoot.
FIREARHS EMBARGO LIFTED
The military restriction prohibiting the sale of GUNS, RIFLES,
REVOLVERS AND AMMUNITION having been removed, we can now
supply these goods to the sporting public.
There’s plenty of sport to be had this season, and it
will do you good to get out for a few hours’ hunting.
sdr
Wc Repair GUNS,
RIFLES & RE VOL VERS
817. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L. Pigeon
Cun, 12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-ineh barrels
both choke, Greener cross-bolt, high file-cut rib, pistol-grip. ’ chambered for
-|in. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 711 b. Delivered...
£7
We can supply the above gun in IG-gauge
Delivered, £7/10/
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 10-gauge, top lever, 301 n.
extension rib, rebounding locks, left clioke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock : weight, about 71b
Postage on one Gun —2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Interstate.
steel barrels,
45/-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12
gauge, top action,
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel. 30in. pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about OJlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
Bi-Non-Ejector, 22/0; 82-Auto-Ejcctor, 25/-
-•
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
Smoke SUNOL Tobacco.
HIGHEST GRADE VIRGINIAN.
Sample 2oz. Packet, 1 Id., Post Free.
UOMBWH
837. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-
steel barrels, 28in., full clioke, take-down system, chambered for
2Jin. shells. Magazine holds 5 cartridges
rubber butt-plate. Weight, 7Jlb. Delivered
£B/10/-
838. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot Gun, 12-gauge, similar
description to 837 Delivered, £B/10/-
Send for our new edition
Firearms and Sporting
Catalogue. Post Free.
St?
1
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.R. Gun,
32-gauge, top level’, bar - action, 30iu. real twist or steel barrels,
Greener cross-bolt, both choke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end.
chambered for 2Jin. cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders
half-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from 7*lb. to 741 b. Delivered
£*7/10
c
W
HAYMAPKET
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
W/fi\
u ////>/:
/
//
W\\ N -
' / l«
The Sun Never Sets On
Certain-teed Roofin?
(CERTAIN- TEED roofs the
world. But it is only one of
the products made by the world’s
largest manufacturers of roofing materials.. The full
line includes: Roofing—roll and flat, Building and
Insulating Papers, Paints and Wall Boards, etc.
You must surely investigate these remarkable products. Our local repre-
sentative will be glad to show them and give you free samples and
literature. Write or call.
Mr. C. C. McCann. Perpetual Trustee Bldg.. Sydney. N. S. W., Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Company
MILLS IN U. S. A.: East St. Louii, Illinois; Marseilles, Illinois; York, Pennsylvania; California
LONDON OFFICE: Imperial House, Kings way, London, W.
Distributors: John Danks Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne; Jas. Campbell & Sons
Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe & Co., Adelaide.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


A Beautiful Little Newcastle
REXONA GIRL
I
m -
n %
Little Miss LINDA FULFORD (from a photo.).
O.M
“It is with the
utmost pleasure that I
testify to the high
quality and beautify-
ing effects derived
from the use of Rexona
Soap.
“The flattering com-
ments and praise be-
stowed upon my little
girl daily by my clients
respecting the loveli-
ness of her skin is
indeed a great adver-
tisement for Rexona.
As manageress of my
mother’s business I
have, for years past,
catered for theatricals,
and Rexona has been
voted by imported and
local artists alike, a
most soothing and refreshing Soap, removing, as it does, any unpleasant
or irritating feeling often caused by the constant use of Greasepaints.
“I recommended Rexona Soap, with the highly satisfactory result of
hearing my guest. Miss Nellie* Kolle, and, indeed, everyone in my house,
pronounce it to be the best they ever uBed -„ (Sgd>) j FULFORD.”
REXONA—THE ARISTOCRAT OF SOAPS .
That natural beauty of skin anti hair which cannot be ij nofwXeS
by regular use of Rexona Skin ami Facial Soap. Ordinary AoHet «lo not assert
0
o
o
AL
FAC I
N
S
K
&
MEDICATED
SOAP
/ mot??
o* / T / /'
V
<1
D
Ossie Asked His Pa!
to Our Camp,
And just to be independent tbe visitor brought along a few tins of
“Rex” Camp Pie-
Of course, it wasn’t necessary, you know, as we nufp^But^then
of fish, and could bag a brace of Wild Duck without trouble, nut tut
that meant cooking. „ , ,
Well, we all voted “REX” CAMP PIE “the goods. And now camp
cooking isn’t any trouble any more.
If you and your mates go down the Bay to a “Bach get a f ew t •
of the “Rex” Canned Goods each week-end. Ihe rests easy, bimpis
serve from the tin. ___„
USUI] DO
03HPNQ
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese
is good in the camp as well as in the home
So also are —
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 131 b. tins.
“Rex” Punch Tongues, in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Slieep Tongues, in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues, in jelly, 111 b. and 21b. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in soz. enamel jars.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in soz. decorated tins.
“Rex” Brand Pard, for cooking imrposes, in lib. prints.
SOPD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE.
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.
Curers of “ Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Nightpiece.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SING softly, for my soul mates with the
night. > . .
Sing softly, sweet! All arid and jejune
The world goes by me harsh and out of
tune,
And barren are the gardens of delight.
Young love's great laughter comes across the
lea: . ,
But what are love and laughter now to me.
Sing, while cold fingers stitch my winding-
sheet.
Sing softly, sweet!
Sing proudly, for I too have had my way.
Sing proudly, dear! for I have joyed aloud
In hot derision of the envious crowd,
And all the good days dead are mine to-day .
I perfect paradise, untouched by stain,
Have plucked full often from the teeth of
Pain,
And I have walked with gods from year to
year.
Sing proudly, dear.
Sing low, for now I stoop above my dust.
Sing low, my heart! Love's dead, though
fools gainsay,
Shall never know a resurrection-day.
And past delight is dead as bygone lust.'
Through life to death —aye, from the fruit-
ful womb
To th’ cold and clawing bitterness of the
tomb—
All fades and vanishes as we onward go.
My heart, sing low !
Smiling, youth loitered on delicious feet
To coax and cozen me. Sing softly, sweet.
Grandly our dear lord Love deep-eyed drew
near „
And was my tender friend. Sing proudly,
dear!
Then he too went where all things else must
And I am left alone. My heart, sing low!
N.S.AVi
FRANK MORTON.
The Currency Lass.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ensign Patrick carder turned
over on liis bed. find cursed compre-
hensively Private Muldoon, the morn-
ing sun. and Governor Macquarie. As he pro-
nounced this sleepy malediction upon his
soldier-servant, the orb of day, and his Ex-
cellency, he resolutely kept his eyes closed,
with a dogged determination not to wake up.
“B—n your limbs. Muldoon, can t you
keep that light out? What in H —l does
old Dismal Jimmy want with me? Draw
the curtain, blast ye!”
“Can’t say, sorr.” Private Muldoon made
no attempt to' shut out the glare. “The
orderly’s but just brought th’ letther, an
sez ’tis ur-rgent an’ immejut, Begob, sorr,
Oi’m thinkin’ ’tis y’silf had bettlier be payin
hade to that same. Misther Macquarie’s tli’
bad man for to kape waitin’. Will ye not
be afther radin’ tli’ letther, sorr ? An
here’s a cup of tay—’twill do ye good, so
’twill —an’ y’r bath’s ready for ye, sorr.”
Grudgingly, Mr. Calder opened his eyes
and held out a shaky hand. Private Mul-
doon saluted, and passed the letter to him.
Then he busied himself with the collection
of his master’s raiment.
The brilliant flood of sunlight lit Up the
untidy barrack .room indecently, and the
dishevelled figure of Ensign Calder sprawl-
ing on top of the bed in shirt and breeches.
Glasses and bottles on the round table by
the window, guttered tallow candles in
greasy candle-sticks, broken churchwarden
pipes on the mantelshelf, and scattered play-
ing cards about the bare flooring-boards
were the tale of a Night Before. Ensign
Calder groaned, as his heavy vision took in
the frowsy scene.
“What the devil!” he muttered, as he
read the letter.
“Sir,” it went, “I am commanded by his
Excellency Major-General Macquarie to
desire your immediate attendance at Gov-
ernment House this morning, at 10.30
o’clock. I have the honor to be, Sir, your
obedient servant, J. T. Campbell, Secre-
tary.”
This terse communication effectually
aroused Mr. Calder. lie swung his stock-
inged legs off the bed and sat up, staring at
the square of white paper.
“Well, I’m d —d !” he murmured. “What
is it now? Muldoon !”
“Sorr.”
“What time is it?”
“ ’Tis nine o’clock, wantin’ fifteen min-
utes, y’r Honor. Ye’ve but small toime to
dhress for parade, so ye have, sorr.”
“Take this letter across to the Adjutant
—Captain Blake—with my compliments,
and show it to him. Tell him that I request
to be excused attendance on parade this
morning. Quick, now! And bring back
some brandy from the mess. I’ll have my
bath while you’re doing it.”
“Yis, sorr.”
Private Muldoon shook his head sorrow-
fully, as he glanced at the litter in the
verandah of Mr. Calder’s quarters.
“Th’ young divil,” he murmured, walking
across the barrack-square. “ ’Tis sure the
ould boy’s been afther seein’ him at some
of his little games. ’Tis throuble he’s mak-
in’ for himsif, so he is. Well, well —’tis his
own consarn. What’s it to do wid y’silf,
Michael Muldoon?”
At twenty-five minutes past ten, the sen-
try at the gate of Government House saluted
Ensign Calder as he strode past—newly
shaven, uniformed and stiffly stocked —and
at ten-thirty Mr. J, T. Campbell, polite and
reticent, opened the door of the Governor’s
office and announced, “Ensign Calder, your
Excellency.”
The Governor, in full uniform and
severely upright, sat behind his table, and
acknowledged Mr. Calder’s salute by the
very slightest inclination of his head. Hav-
ing made his salute, the subaltern removed
his shako, carrying it in • the crook of his
left arm. and stood awaiting his Excel-
lency’s pleasure. It was evidently not in
accordance with the great man's pleasure
that he should be seated. He shifted un-
easily from one foot to the other under the
Governor’s regard, wished for a brandy-and-
water, and felt that the situation was a very
serious one.
Macquarie’s quaint face, with its long
nose and kindly brown eyes, was a face that
had only two expressions—benevolence and
severity. It was not the sort of face that
could ever be genial or jovial. Whichever
of its two expressions it happened to be
wearing, it always wore them with great
dignity.
There was a tightness about the lips this
morning, and a look in the clear eyes, that
did not make for the spiritual comfort of
Ensign Calder. He felt himself wilting
under that stern and hostile glare. He felt
that he was a singularly unfortunate young
officer. He felt that he would rather be
anywhere than wliern he was.
Mi-. Calder was not cursed with a con-
science. but he had a consciousness that,
in some fashion, he had broken the Eleventh
Commandment. And lie rather suspected
that his Excellency had picked up the
pieces. Therefore, when at length bis
Excellency spoke, the jerk of his nervous sys-
tem seemed to him to resemble a jump, lie
dropped his shako on the floor, and after
stooping to pick it up his face was red and
his eyes watery.
“Mr. Calder,” said Governor Macquarie
in his precise fashion, and his slightly
Scottish accent—“ Mr. Calder, it is my
opinion that you are a very great scoundrel,
sir—a blackguard, a very reprehensible
character. 1 do not think that you are a
gentleman, sir!”
Ensign Calder gaped at the Governor.
When he had picked up his shako, it was
a few seconds before be found his tongue.
“Your Excellency!” he gasped. His Ex-
cellency proceeded in this flattering strain :
“I have had my eye upon you, Mr. Cal-
der. I have lmd your conduct under my
personal observation. The relationship in
which you stand to my friend Colonel
Calder, of the Ninety-second, has induced
me to pay some particular attention to
your career in this colony. And what do I
find, sir? What do I find?”
Unfortunate Mr. Calder indicated by an
embarrassed, silence that it was impossible
for him to enlighten his Excellency. He
confusedly realised a hope that the Governor
might not have found all that was to be
found. He prayed that this might be so.
“I find, sir, that you are a drunkard, a
gambler, and a libertine —and that you keep
game-cocks. Why, sir, your very appearance
this morning is sufficient evidence as to
how you have spent the night! Your eye
is suffused, sir—your hands tremble. You
have the appearance of a debauchee, sii'—a
debauchee.”
Young Air. Calder felt that this was true,
lie felt also that lie had the appearance of
a. fool and a coward. The stern majesty of
Macquarie made this unpleasant interview
into a Day of Judgment. All Hell gaped
open in front of him. And behind the table,
in Hell’s doorway, sat the Almighty.
The Governor picked up a paper and held
it out towards the miserable youth. Mechan-
ically Mr. Calder took it, but, his attention
focussed upon that terrible face, he did
not immediately make himself aware of its
contents.
“Read it, sir—read it! I shall await your
explanation. I am determined upon a course
of action, sir—but I -shall await your explan-
ation.”
The document was in the form of a letter,
and was written upon a ruled page torn
from an account book. It was inscribed with
great care, and was evidently a fair copy of
a rougher draft. The X mark in the signa-
ture indicated that it had not been written
by- the memorialist. Air. Calder read it, not
without difficulty. Its style was a little in-
volved.
“ ‘May it I’leeze Yure Exellenzy,’ ” he
read, “ ‘ to take Notis of ye greavious Com-
playnt of ye umble sarvint of yure Exel-
lenzy agin Mr. Pat’k Calder of ye 46th Rigi-
mint now st’ned at Port Jackson, ensine.
These is to Sey that ye s’d Air. Calder,
ensine, hath taken a- Vantage of ye inocint
Dawter of ye umble sarvint she bean but
of ye tender age of Sixtene yere an hath
Seduced hir from hir Vartew whereby she
hath become a Mothir an hath a Boy Child
wh. she do sware to be ye child of Air.
Pat’k Calder an I ave beat hir sounly so
she do speak onely ye Truth. Yure Exel-
lenzy will be pleased to call to mind that
upon ye ocasion of ye hon’ble discharge of
ye umble sarvint from ye 102nd Rgt. were
he was Drum-Alager for many yeres Yure
Exellenzy was plesed to Commind is Sar-
vices on meting with him cloas by ye
Comis’tt Store and did Sey that he sh’d not
fayle to call upon Yure Exellenzy in tyme
of Nede or Distresse wh. cometh to all men
an Yure Exellenzy w’d kepe him in mind.
Wherefore he doath now pet’n Yure Exel-
lenzy that ye w’d be so good as to make
Enquiry of Ensine Calder to find out ye
truth an to cawse him to make prevision
for is Child. I do not take ye liberty to
advance that my Dawter sh’d marry with
ye Quality, but do hoap an Confide Yure
Exellenzy will sea Justice done an ye pre-
vision made for ye child. An yure umble
sarvint will ever prey, &c. — John Glass, his
mark X.’ ”
“Well, sir? Well?”
Mr. Calder looked up from the paper with
a bewildered expression on his pink face.
When his eyes encountered the Governor’s
he immediately dropped them again to the
letter. He hesitated a moment, and then
laid it down upon the table.
“If you please, your Excellehcy, I know-
nothing about the girl.” He grew a little
(Continued on next page.)


IILBREKS
Scalp Troubles.
gs
MOTHERS {hul it very difficult to
guard against unsightly and dis-
tressing diseases of the scalp among
the little ones, especially as some such
troubles are very catching; and once
they have developed it is more difficult
still to find a cure.
Eczema (in the familiar form of
scald-head), honey-scab, dandruff and
ringworm are all scalp affections for
Avhich Zam-Buk has proved most efficacious. Whether the form of the
eruption be running sores, dry scabs or scales, or inflamed patches, Zam-
Buk is alike soothing and curative.
In cases of ringworm Zam-Buk has achieved remarkable success.
Rubbed gently into the itchy red patches, this pure balm soaks through
the diseased tissue, and kills the microscopic fungus-plants which are the
cause of the trouble. Mothers should keep Zam-Buk handy, and dress
daily any part of the skin or scalp which presents the least suspicion of
disease. .
INFLAMED SORES ON CHILD’S HEAD.
A MOTHER’S GRATITUDE TO ZAM=BUK.
Mrs. A. Barratt, 37 Dudley Street, Paddington, Sydney, sqys: “My little daughter
Norma had a lump form on her head,
caused by the tooth of a comb sticking in
the surface, which happened to be encrusted
by cradle cap. The comb must have
poisoned the spot, for the lump grew to the
size of half a crown and rose to about an
inch in height. We tried various remedies,
but nothing did it any good. My daughter
suggested Zam-Buk, and we straightway
secured a supply and applied some of the
balm to the sore. On the third day, while
Norma was being washed, the lump came
off, leaving underneath a mass of matter and
; inflammation. We continued with Zam-Buk,
.yid presently the sore was completely
and her head is now spotless and
cican.”
ium-Buk is invaluable for eczema, itch, piles,
ringworm, ulcers, sore heads, bad legs, fes-
tering wounds, diseased ankles, running sores,
wounds, scabs, itching skin disease, scalp
troubles, and skin injuries and
diseases generally. Sold by all
chemists and stores at 1/6 and
3/6 per pot, or direct from C. E.
Eulford (Aus.) litd., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Little Norma
Barratt,
cured of scalp
trouble by
Zam-Buk.
MBS
■amßuk
A
every home needs a pot.
y, Ah
* // uk Jfm
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “ 7 o’clock ’
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, lat D.C.L.1., writes: Price In Australia... ... 12 6
44 Up to the time of first using a“7 o'clock' Price in New Zealand ... g
Safety Razor out here shaving was y task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight."
“7 O’CLOCK” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by U in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia.
1
mm
m
WBmmm
bolder. “I have never seen her, to my
knowledge. Ido not know this John Glass.”
“What!” barked the Governor. “You
deny all knowledge of the affair?”
“Most assuredly, your Excellency.”
Macquarie looked at him keenly, but did
not speak for awhile. He drummed with the
lingers of his right hand upon the table.
The other hand picked up John Glass’s
letter, and he studied it at arm’s length as if
seeking some inspiration from it. Presently
he spoke.
“Mr. Calder, it is a matter of regret to
me that you bear but an indifferent charac-
ter in this community. Your commanding-
officer, Colonel Molle, informed me that he
has had complaints as to your gallantries in
both Sydney and Parramatta. He is con-
sidering the advisability of sending you on
detachment duty to Port Dalryinple. He
tells me that you indulge too freely in
spirits. Also, that you are over-addicted
to play. I have been informed by Mr. D’Arcy
Wentworth, as Superintendent of Police,
that you formed one of the party at Cockle
Bay a few Sundays ago,- when the constables
raided Jordan’s cockpit, and that only out
of consideration for the regiment did you —-
and several of your brother officers —escape
apprehension and the necessity of attend-
ing at' the police office. Altogether, Mr. Cal-
der, your reputation is an unenviable one.
A very undesirable one. Your worthy uncle
would have little reason to feel pleased
with you did he know as much of you as I
do.”
“At any rate, your Excellency, I am
innocent of the present charge. I may have
been—indiscreet —in some matters, but I
know nothing of this. I would beg for the
fullest inquiry.”
Mr. Calder had suddenly realised that,
though a man may have shattered the Deca-
logue and committed every possible misde-
meanor but one, an unjust accusation of
that one will wholly restore his self-respect
and consciousness of virtue. There was a
tremor of indignation in his voice, and some
appearance of one who suffered an unmerited
injury in his bearing. A stiff brandy and
water would have been acceptable, but he
felt wonderfully stimulated by the know-
ledge that Governor Macquarie had not
lighted upon something that he really had
done.
The Governor rose to his feet. He tinkled
a little table bell. “An inquiry? Very good,
Mr. Calder. We will make immediate in-
quiry. Be so good as to follow me, if you
please. My hat and cane, Thompson,” to
the servant who answered the bell. “Come,
Mr. Calder, I have a great regard for this
worthy John Glass. We will go to see him
this moment, sir. And we shall question his
daughter also. Should his statement that
you are the father of the child be borne out
I will see to it that you give the very fullest
satisfaction, both to the mother and to John
Glass. Follow me, if you please.”
The Governor led the way out from the
back of the house, stalking along with great
dignity, whilst Ensign Calder followed a
couple of paces in his wake. Tliev crossed
the crest of the ridge and walked down
through the trees to the valley of Farm Cove,
along whose shady bottom, trickled a little
stream, where one runs to-day out of the
Domain into the Botanical Gardens. Across
the rivulet, the beginnings of the Gardens
were enclosed by a paling fence. Gangs of
yellow-jacketed convicts were employed in
the making of the new road which runs
round the back of Farm Cove to Mrs.
Macquarie’s Chair, and here and there the
red coat of a sentry stood out against the
dark green forest background.
They came, by the bank of the stream,
to a little white cottage. On a bench outside
the open door reclined a very stout man with
a very red face, who smoked a very black
clay pipe. As the Governor and Mr. Calder
walked out of the timber he stood up and
came to attention, raising his hand to his
hat in a military salute. He held the clay
pipe behind his back.
“Good mprning to you, John Glgss,” said
his Excellency. He turned round. “Mr.
Calder, this is the man who has complained
of your interference with his daughter.
Glass, here is Ensign Calder, of whom you
have written to me. Is your daughter
within ?”
The fat man scowled at Mr. Calder, and
saluted him sulkily. “Good marnin’. y’r
Honor,” he said. “I’ve waited in for y’r
Honor, as y’r Honor’s orderly bade, me for
to do. At y’r Honor’s sarvice.”
“Very good, John Glass: Please to call
your daughter. We will try to arrive at a
conclusion in this matter.”
John Glass waddled to the door and
blocked it with his bulk. He said something
and stood aside. And out through the low
doorway stepped a barefooted, barebreasted
beauty, nursing a red-headed baby.'
. She was a beauty. Ensign Calder almost
experienced a spasm of regret concerning his
innocence, so far as she was concerned. The
Governor’s stern face relaxed a little, and
he looked her over with undisguised ap-
proval. She curtseyed as she came out
of the house, and then stood with downcast
eyes, clasping the baby closely to her.bosom
and teasing a tuft of grass with the- toes of
one small, shapely foot.
Glorious auburn hair hung loose to below
her waist. She had perfect features, and
splendid violet , eyes, of a peculiar softness
looked out shyly from the beautiful face. Her
figure was as faultless as her features. In
all the territory over which he ruled,
Lachlan Macquarie felt certain that there
could be no finer specimen of young woman-
hood. He could not contain his admiration.
“A Lady Hamilton, by gad !” lie muttered,
so that only Ensign Calder heard him. “A
Diana, by George!”
For a moment or two there was silence.
She seemed to hold the two officers under
a spell. And then a jackass laughed in the
timber, and Lachlan Macquarie remembered
that he was Captain-General and. Governor-
in-Chief in and over his Majesty’s Terri-
tory of New South Wales. He addressed
John Glass.
“Is your daughter a native of the Colony,
Glass?” ’ ;
“Aye, y’r Honor —she be a Currency Lass
—born in ’ninety-eight in the old Barracks.
She be currency, sure ’nough.” - " -
“Ah. And you say that she-claims Ensign
Calder to be the father of her child?”
“She did last night, y’r Honor —when I
beat her to make her say who ’twas. She'd
not say for a long time. She be a pig-
headed one, so she be. ’Twas on’y when I
threatens to take th’ babby from her an’
give it out to nurse that she comes out with
Mr. Calder’s name.”
The Governor looked at Mr. Calder. That
gentleman stood very erect and returned the
look with an expression that was intended
to convey all the outraged innocence that
was his—and the regret that he felt over his
innocence. “A hardened scoundrel,” thought
his Excellency. He turned to the girl. She
had been examining Mr. Calder’s not
unpleasing personality.
“Now, my poor girl,” he said gently. “I
wish you to tell me, in the presence of
Ensign Calder, what you have told your
father. Is Mr. Calder the other parent of
your child?”
The beauty was dumb. She looked from
the Governor to the subaltern, and then to
her father. Then she dropped her eyes to
the red head of her son, snuggling in against
the full white breast. But she said nothing.
“Come, my girl,” said Macquarie sternly,
“don't be afraid. No harm shall come to
you. I must insist on your saying ‘yes’ or
‘no.’ Is Mr. Calder the father? Come —
speak up.”
“Doan’t ’e be a silly wench, Mary,”
growled John Glass. “Tell his Honor what
ye told me—what ye wrote in the letter.
’Tis Mr. Calder, ain’t it?”
The girl looked up again, and timidly
glanced at the young officer. Then slowly
she shook her head.
“What! ye hussy—then who is it?” roared
her father, gripping her white arm above
her elbow so that she winced and made a
little sobbing cry. “Who is it? Out with
it now.” He released her arm.
In a frightened fashion she looked from
one to the other, and, turning swiftly, made
a little run into the doorway. There she
turned again. Tears were in her eyes, and
her face was dimpled with a little smile. She
made an announcement, and, as she said the
words, disappeared into the dark interior.
“ ’Tis Mr. Macquarie !”
There was a deathly silence. John Glass’s
heavy jaw dropped, and he stood wide
mouthed, gaping at the Governor. Ensign
Calder bent a little, and then resolutely
straightened himself again. He covered his
mouth with his left. hand.
“Good God !” gasped the Governor.
An hysterical giggle came from inside the
hut. The three men outside stood as if
petrified. And round the end of the little
dwelling there stepped quietly a tall person
with flaming red hair, who carried his hat in
his hand. He bowed to Macquarie.
“Your Excellency,” he said, “I must dis-
pute the honor with you and crave your
indulgence for my poor girl. I am the
purser of the ship Heartsease, which you
will remember was here a twelvemonth since.
I have but just overheard poor Molly’s words.
I am but just in, and wish to marry her. I
will” *
The Governor turned away, and marched
up the hill with awful majesty. Ensign
Calder followed him, with very much less.
At the gate of Government House the Gov-
ernor turned to him.
“Not a word of this, -sir !” he said coldly.
“Not a word, your Excellencv,” replied
Mr. Calder.
But there was.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Gold of the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Honey-pale is your hair,
With a fillet of green about;
Under the white brow, broadly-fair,
Your level eyes look out;
And they your sires, whose galleys passed
Down from the Skaw to the Coast of Gold,
Gave you those sheer limbs, lightlier cast
In the self-same hero-mould.
Women who laughed with your eyes and
lips,
Walked with your footfall, touched with
your hand,
Once, from the beaks of the dragon-ships,
Looked to the English land !
I. who am Pagan through and through,
I thank old Thor for you !
Laugh, for the laughter makes
A flash, as the Arm lips part,
White as the whitest foam that breaks
Prom a cresting comber’s heart!
Low, clear laughter like yours has rung,
In the pines where the Viking’s steading
stood,
To the clang of the saga upon the tongue
And the steel on the linden-wood.
My wild blood leaps to you, all-sufficed,
Child of the old faith through and
through ;
For I cannot think the little white Christ
Could hold the heart of you,
Or the nithing faith of the Nazarene
Fetter your soul serene !
Green are the leaves that bear
The sun’s flaked gold between ;
Hon ey -a nd-gold is your fragrant hair
Filleted round with green ;
And, but a pulse’s beat agone.
Here in the tree-lands shadow-aisled
Your rare heart called to my pagan one.
While Odin stood and smiled ;
As these my man’s arms caught and held
Your whiteness crushed to my outlaw
heart,
Baidur and Frey and the Northern eld
Laughed in the glade apart!
I have felt your full breast swell and fall.
Thrilled with a tremor unborn of fear!
Can the weak white saints give more than
all?
I have trod Valhalla here!
Masterless maid, yet maidlike through,
I thank old Thor for you !
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


Westinghouse (Cross) Oil Engines
CROSS -
OM. ENGINE
b
Q=i
'>}>> A/A 'M > >?»J } > JS S'/77‘r, f 7Try7'?V77Tr?
10-h.p. Oil Engine driving Air Compressor at 6~,0 r.p.m.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
The Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W.
e n e r
rdg
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves 5 per cent . on
Automobile
Fire Insurance -
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14'.
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
sdr
u
SADDLE EASE
is often times the
one thing needed to
make your pleasure perfect
you can ensure !t if you choose a
BROOKS
OF ALL DEALERS.
&
gs
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from rfs.
6d. and upwards. Cards of lantf and all 1 ar-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.
CAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern—you just
press the button to go astern, ■■ ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Compl|pte Boat Equipments Supplied.
Sole Australasian Agents :
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
drg
SEE YOURSELF
the benefit
eectoms Pills
will do for you.
s
drg
For easy tube screwing in cramped
and accurately-cut work, use
OSTER
RATCHET
SCREWING
TACKLE
with the 5 famous Build os features! (1) Self-locking, adjustable guides,
(3> self-centring guides, (S) no running back over newly-cut threads,
(*< no loose bushings, (5) no small parts. Ask your-ironmonger,
machinery, hardware or plumbing-supply maker, or write
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria,
Australasian Representative for
THE OSTER MFG. CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.B.A.
TTtfT^xzlleZz/Ti.
If any illustration appearing in
takes your fancy, write to the
er, who will quote you price for it.
ON LAND OR WATER
The FAMOUS SCHEBLER CARBURETTER
(Made in America)
IS SUPREME.
Miss Minneapolis
the fastest
Motor>boat
in the world,
who in her re-
cord mile trials
made an aver-
age speed of
61.08 miles an
hour,
iWi
m
m
IS SCHEBLER EQUIPPED,
A Carburetter to gain such distinction must be, in the highest sense, EFFICIENT.
Consider what efficiency means to you, Mr. Motor-Owner, in these days of high-
priced motor-spirit. Besides SPEED, EFFICIENCY means POWER and ECONOMY,
or the ability to get the last ounce from the last drop.
We shall be pleased to show you latest SCHEBLER MODELS or post Catalogue free on request.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
' Sole Agents for Messrs.
Wheeler St Sohebler, America
[2


The All-Australian
Power
pMANCROVITEI
LEATHER
mm:
whioh ia used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
sdr
gs
w
o
The quality
of the Milford
brand is now recognised
as standard, and appeals
to all practical Engineers.
Write for sample blade and compare it
with what yon are using. All sizes in Stock,
Hand and Power.
Agents: Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HA ROSE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle.
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
99
(HIGH PRESSURE)
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT."
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Flumlng,
Patent Nelyambo" Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Works
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Britain’s Best.
DEWRANCE
VALVES
With Renewable Seats of
Bronze or Nickel Alloy.
Stocks Carried by the Agents—
The Austral Engineering
Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
g
m
Delco-Light
Safe, Reliable, Convenient,
Electric Light Plant for Country
Homes, Stations, etc. So simple,
a child can operate it. Cheap to
install, and most perfect and
economical to use. Send for
full particulars and prices to
Sole Agents
Warburton, Fran ki, Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
Sydney: 309 Kent St. Melbourne: 380 Bourke St.
THE
LATE ST
Sub-Agents:
Victoria: Mitchell & Co.,
Propy. Ltd., West Foot-
scray, Melbourne.
North Queensland: Burns,
Philp & Co. Ltd.,
Townsville.
JL
r.
&
§HEEP-SHEAPING machine^
□
OP NATIONAL IMPORTANCE
ALL
BRITISH
MA&E-
Sub-Agents:
West Australia: Malloch
Bros., Berth.
Tasmania: A. G. Webster
& Sons, Xitd., Hobart.
Southern and Central
Queensland: Winch-
combe, Carson, X,td.,
Brisbane.
Sole Agents'
for Australia
DANGAR. GEDYE C C° U D
SYDNEY.
The MODERN ENGINEER is a BUSINESS MAN
Section of Valve.
as well as a highly-trained Scientist. His work calls for the best; his Motto is
EFFICIENCY, DURABILITY and RELIABILITY. He finds these qualities in
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
Mill H a i- r . Ac *opted by 175 Railway Companies in America, by Chemical Works, Powder
s, ydraulic Companies, Mining Companies, Paper Mills, etc. The Case Threshing Co. ordered 10,000 in
one year. If your trouble is a leaky Blow-off Valve,
or difficulty with Acid or Oil, communicate with-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDING,.
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
