

THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
Machinery Merchants,
Kent: street, Sydney.
* 107
—FOR— < ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. ’New and Second-hand Plants always available,
THE “AUSTRALIAN REVIEW;’
says:—
“The Company is very well
managed, and the name is quite
a household word in Sydney. Its
reputation is excellent, and,
although the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a vampire, the
charge cannot be laid at the doors
of the X.S.W. Mont de Piete D.
and I. Co. Limited.
NSWvMONTDE PIETE-DelCl^
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74.
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest Interest.
Next to ‘‘Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325
40
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General
HOBART,
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
FIFTY PAGE BOOK-POST FREE
Slllil
SLEEP IN OR
OUTDOORS
IN COMFORT
Tby our
PATENT BED
FOR HOTELS
FLATS, AND
Bungalows
REVOLVES IN
22 INCHES.
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO..
380 GEORGE ST (near g.p.0.), SYDNEY.
“A Great Record!”
HUTTON’S
PINEAPPLE ” BRAND
Cfor 45_YEARS THE BEST
Hams & Bacon
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
imrreHrei
Tablets
*,r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acta
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
i
i-f.
-ir
The Big Chief I* Field Type W Oil Engines
Represent the Pick of America’s Productions. Simple, Economical and Always Reliable.
Any Schoolboy can handle these Engines. Hundreds in daily use all over Australia.
EVERY ENGINE THOROUGHLY TESTED BEFORE LEAVING OUR WORKS.
CASH OR EASY TERMS . Catalogs Free. CASH OR EASY TERMS .
R. L. SGRUTTON & CO. LTD. 161 Cl t r *"°®s treet
SYDNEY.
THE ENGINEERS’ DEPOT.
GAELIC WHISKY
ORME, KEIGWIN (Sb CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Agents.
WM.Uilm.mi I
mmmm
REMINGTON U.M.C.
ARMS AND AMMUNITION.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PROPY. LTD.
115 Clarence Street, Sydney. 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
m
55 S*
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free copy of “The Referee,” a
booklet containing much useful and
instructive information.
Goto****'
S v ets
Supplied to the Naval and
Military Authorities of
Great Britain and Australia.
QPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vd. 38.—N0. 1971.]
[Thursday, November 22, 1917
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.SAV., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


-BgCoi
IS THE DOCTOR’S ORDER.
His advice should be a pleasure to obey, because inferior Gin threatens to
knock your nerves sky-high. All Doctors recommend Gilbey’s Dry Gin,
because they honestly know it is a spirit of quality to make you feel healthier.
GILBEY’S DRY GIN THE APPRECIATED GIN.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY, Sole Agents.
=*=*
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND'
FILTH.
kill that fly.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520,
G.P.0.. Sydney, and a sample tin of “Must-
die” Powder will be sent post free, or
forward 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
f i
99
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
[3
The Red Page
Australian Fiction
The author of The Straits Impregnable
can, as we know, write finely. That war-
book is a masterpiece of atmosphere and
character-drawing: it lias the hall-mark of
all great work: it seems to have written
itself. Now Sydney de Loghe turns his experi-
enced hand to the , writing of an Australian
novel. Wisely he chose to set his scene in
the little-known country lying about the
Gulf of Carpentaria; he journeyed thither
by desolate railway and dreary coach-track;
marooned himself in a mining township for
a season; sedulously .sought for local charac-
ter studies; and deliberately sat down under
canvas to fit. his scenery and his people into
bis plot. If this assumption seems unfair
to the author, the reader will find its basis
in the book, Pelican Pool (Angus and Rob-
ertson, Sydney, 55.). For the author clum-
sily intrudes in the middle of his story—a
fatal fault of technique. At chapter 9 he
tells us: “Every day of the week, at fall of
dark. I grope my way here into my tent at
Surprise, light the hurricane lamp, hook it
to the beam overhead, find paper and pen,
and spur myself to the telling of a page more
of this story At last my story is well
begun, and a few days must wear out at
Surprise and Kaloona before the tale moves
much forward again”....
Thus the ingenuous author would have
us to suppose that his novel is unfolding
itself day by day in tjjat mining, township
before his eyes; yet the story is told objec-
tively, not in the first person—and here the
author pushes himself busily between his
characters and his reader. Or else —a sup-
position equally fatal to the illusion—j-the
author is merely using the local color arc/und
him to weave a story round an invented
plot. It is like a dramatist appearing on
the stage between acts, advising the audi-
ence to be patient.
The plot is the old, old one of the man
engaged to the nice girl who is seduced from
his allegiance by a beautiful, common and
accessible girl. Sydney de Loghe paints an
Outback Helen: “To look a moment- on her'
was to grow hungry, to look long on her was
to banish peace.... For that most cunning-
work of a great craftsman was a chalice
holding the poisoned potion of desire; that
rich body was an altar whereon burned the
fires of longing; that loveliness was doomed
to linger as midwife to men’s tears.... Her
figure was quick and strong and supple ; her
hair lay about her head as an aureole; her
eyes were great and bright and deep; her
feet were slender and without blemish ; her
lips waited on the coming of some supreme
adventure.”
And when, at last, they embrace, it is an
heroic embrace: “He was kissing her lips.
He was kissing her eyes. He was kissing her
throat. Her hair touched his hair. Her
hair was in his mouth, and the sharp taste
of it made him mad. He began to kiss her
in frenzy, until she ceased to struggle and
lay in his arms sobbing and laughing. He
crushed her to him. lie kissed her mouth
again. He kissed her eyes again. Again
he kissed her hair. He kissed her brows.
He kissed her throat until the red marks
rose in the brown skin. He pressed his head
wildly against her bosom where her heart
struck wildly. He felt her tiny teeth against
his lips. ... ” In short, he kissed her for
a whole page.
There you have Sydney de Loghe’s fault
—a lack of restraint, an addiction to the
purple patch. He riots in fine writing: the
first few pages of Pelican Pool are an orgy
of purple. “Where the equator girdles the
earth, the Indian Ocean and the amorous
waters of the Pacific have their marriage
bed. Afire with the passions of the tropics,
excited by breezes from a thousand islands of
palm, of spice, of coral, of pearl, jewelled
for the ceremony with quick-lived phospho-
rus lights, the oceans move to each other
and mingle hot kisses under high red suns
and fierce white m00n5....” Etc. for four
pages—an ominous beginning to a simple
human tale. Yet when he chooses he writes
with a terse simplicity of dialogue that is
more impressive than his plethora of lordly
adjectives. And he does remarkably convey
the atmosphere of his locale; at the end of
the story it is not the too-long-foreseen fate
of his surely impossible syren, nor the char-
acterisation of his men and women, that the
reader remembers; what remains is the back-
ground of the Gulf Country, with its heat
and its moonlit nights, its dust and dreari-
ness. its oases of beauty.
The story is clumsily over-
burdened by too detailed a treatment of
characters that do not matter. Yet readers
of Pelican Pool— and may they be many!—
will agree with this page that Sydney de
Loghe. with a masterpiece behind him. sit-
ting down to construct a work of imagina-
tion, has done surprisingly well a difficult
task. The book is an earnest of his
capacity for a splendid Australian novel yet
to come. He lias the stuff in him, the
ability to see and to put down what he
sees; he can write; he will learn to curb
his flamboyant pen. Pelican Pool is a
brave attempt by a man who will do
infinitely better.
“Sunrises that were all gold and glory
in the great plain; moon-settings that
changed from the shape of a bronze football
to the form of a copper haystack and then
to a strip of purple silk. Self-made hay upon
the stalk for a hundred miles ; drought split-
ting the desiccated earth; dryness in the
ground and in the mouth; air like cham-
pagne ; and a steadfast man guiding, coaxing
and forcing weary horses through sand and
over iron and quartz.” So Randolph
Bedford can write; so he writes in Silver
Star (N.S.W. Bookstall, Is.), reprinting a
serial that ran in The Lone Hand. The
story is one of mining, love and adventure;
but none of these is as interesting—though,
judged by the company in which this volume
finds itself, each is interesting enough—as
the background of the real Australia that
Randolph knows so intimately, loves so
dearly, and writes of so freshly and so well.
Included in this good shilling's worth IS a
remarkably fine short story, A Samaritan of
the Riverine, a story of a convict who made
good and achieved his great vengeance ‘‘in
the wild, burning sheep-walk of Central
Eastern Australia, watered by the mighty
Darling and sundry smaller and deceitful
streams; where the winter is a flood ; where
the summer is a furnace* and the sun and
the baked dust and the parched gums are
of a uniform dull red ; and where the early
spring is as delicate as its sister seasons are
fierce.”
J*
Broda Reynolds writes The Selector Girl
(N.S.W. Bookstall Co.; Is.), another of the
commonplace Outback stories with which,
through the enterprise of A. C. Rowlandson,
Australia is now familiar. This innocent
chronicle of life upon a selection has a basis
of fact arid is not deficient in crude humor
and sentiment. The humor surrounds a
camera purchased by the father on his trip
to Sydney. The sentiment lies between a
sundowner and the photographer’s daughter.
Still, there is no reason why the sundowner
should be named Harold, even though he
possesses a fair English face; and he should
not speak like this: “In every way known
to civilised Christianity you are my equal,
the superior, of my family!” However, all
is right with Harold and his girl, for Harold
receives good news from England. “My poor
old grandfather’s youngest brother died a
fairly rich man, and, being childless himself,
has left me the bulk of his money! Dear old
fellow! I had almost forgotten him,
although he professed a deep affection for me
at the time, which I’m sure now was genu-
ine.”
Recently this page innocently remarked
that Australia possessed all the illustrators
necessary for the proper illustration of Aus-
tralian novels. The illustrations in these
shilling novels do not advertise that claim. If
these novels must be - illustrated, w r hy does
not the publisher put the work into better
hands—and if it is a question of expense—
why not give the reader merely a good cover
and an artistic frontispiece?
Overseas Fiction
The finest book that has come out of the
United States of recent years is His
Family, by Eniest Poole (Macmillan, New
York). In this masterly novel Poole has
confirmed the hopes raised by his first novel,
The Harbor. As in that first novel the
harbor was the waterside of New York, so
His Family embraces the teeming life of
New York city. The theme has the simpli-
city and the breadth of all works of art:
it is merely the story of an ageing father,
left a widower with three daughters, each
of whom goes her own way through life,
while he in growing bewilderment watches
the diversity in aims and outlook of the new
generation, and reaches his affection and
sympathy across the difficult barrier of the
generations. But the author gives a larger
connotation to this story of a family: this
is the chronicle of the million modern fami-
lies of New' York. The father, a some-
what pathetic suiwival of a more placid age,
is drawn with a \ masterly hand. And
each of the daughters, whose fates are so
diverse, is as glowingly alive. The eldest
daughter, Edith, is a much-married mother;
with her the maternal instinct is a mere
instinctive animal snarl at every hint of
danger to her young. The second daughter,
Dorothea, is the capable director of a huge
tenement school: her maternal instinct is
diffused among 6000 children. The third
daughter merely marries, becomes a divorcee
and marries again: her maternal instinct is
missing or mislaid in her impetuous chase
after a good time. The old man—and the
author —see in these three daughters the
three main streams of modern city life. The
father visits his daughter’s tenement school:
‘ It was a mammoth cauldron here, seething,
bubbling over with a million foreign lives
Deborah’s family.” And it is of that family
—the amazing family of New York—that the
book comprehensively deals. The husband
of Edith typifies the feverishness of that
new generation.
“Do you know what’s the matter with kids
rm It’s the twentieth century.
Ihats the disease. It starts in their teeth.
Ao modern girl can get married unless she
has had her teeth straightened for years
But that isn’t all. It gets into them, their
young intestines, God bless ’em, and makes
yoii pasteurise all they eat. It gets into
their nerves and tears ’em up... The whole
idea is simplicity. If you can’t make enough
t?. b .u-v it you’re 105 t....” The old man
flunks: Y\ hicli were the more tense, the
husbands or wives? What were they spend-
ing? Their very life’s bloody And what
were they getting? Happiness? What did
most of them know of real happiness?”
J*
The tragedy of the old man’s life is that
he has lost sight of his grown-up daughters
in his interest in his business; and now
that he attempts to get into touch with
their points of view he finds they are
strangers —they have outgrown his simple,
sane philosophy of life. And he has always
believed that he would live on in his chil-
dren’s lives: it is the only sort of immor-
tality he craved. And these were his chil-
dren', these utterly diverse and astonishing
personalities, into whose purposes he could
not enter, and whose conception of life he
could but dimly understand.
The husband of his eldest daughter per-
sonifies the new generation, whose ideal
is speed. “Take it from me, this town has
only just begun!” The father grunts:
“Aren’t the buildings high enough?” Bruce
rejoins: “We’ve stopped going up. We’ve
dene pretty well in the air, and now we’re
going underground. And when we 1 get
through this old rock of Manhattan will be
such a network of tunnels there’ll be a hole
waiting at every cornel' to take you wherever
you want to go. Speed? We don’t even
know what it means!. .. . And in the rush
hour there will be a rush that’ll make you
think of pneumatic tubes! Not a sound or
a quiver— just pure speed! Shooting people
home at night at a couple of hundred miles
an hour. And there won’t be any accidents
and there won’t be any smoke. . . .This town
is choking itself to death simply because
we’re so damn slow! We don’t know how
to spread ourselves! All this city needs is
speed!” That speed .gets into the lives of
the younger generation—gets on their nerves
and very thoroughly wrecks them.
But in this bouleversement of his ideas
the old man still holds to his comforting
belief in the sanity and steadiness of the
great mind of humanity. Then comes the
war. “Mankind had suddenly unmasked
and shown itself for what it was—still only
a precocious child, with a terrible precocity.
For its growth had been onesided. Its
strength was growing and at a speed
breathless and astounding. But its vision
and its poise, its sense of human justice,
of kindliness and tolerance and of generous
brotherly love, these had been neglected and
■were being left behind. And the picture
rose in his mind of a child, standing there
of giant size, with dangerous playthings in
his, hand, and boastfully declaring, ‘I can
thunder over the earth, dive in the ocean,
soar on the clouds! I can shiver to atoms
a mountain, I can drench whole lands with
blood ! I can look up and laugh at God !’ ”
So the old man plays his quiet part in the
lives of his astonishing children —astonishing
only to him, and astonishing merely because
they belong to a new generation. And then
he comes to die. He sees New York not as
a settled calm abiding place cherishing its
memories, “but only a town of transition, a
great turbulent city of change, restlessly
shaking off its task, tearing down and build-
ing anew, .building higher, higher, higher,
rearing to the very stars, and shouting: ‘Can
you see me now?’ What was the goal of
this mad career? What dazzling city would
be here?” And staring out of his window
as into a promised land, he tries to picture
the new America, a world which he would
not know r . And yet this sturdy figure is
comforted by the theme that recurs through-
out the -whole book: that inconceivable
world of the future would be his world still,
for in it, as in the lives of his daughters, he
would play a part. “In their lives, too, we
shall be there-—the dim strong figures of the
past.”
A generous, sane and satisfying work of
art. In Ernest Poole there is a knowledge
of life, a balance of character and a creative
power that should place him not only high in
the'ranks of worth-while American novelists,
but give him entry to the small community
of master writers in Modern English litera-
ture.
According to the author, who should
know, A Modern Lover “was the book of a
young man who, in a moment of inspiration
hit upon an excellent anecdote, and being
without literary skill to unfold it, devised
an uncouth text out of his memories of
Balzac, Zola and Goncourt.... Three women
undertake to work for a young man’s wel-
fare : a work girl, a rich woman and a lady
of high degree. All contribute something,
and the young man is put on a high pedes-
tal. One worshipper retains her faith, one
looses hers partially, and one altogether.” In
the engrossing task of revising his novels for
a uniform edition —and making that an ex-
cuse for the writing of rambling prefaces—
George Moore has come to A Modern Lover.
But he found, as he tells us, that such
jargon was -beyond hope of revision, and
threw the volume from him after reading a
few pages. That George Moore would so
treat one of George Moore’s novels seems to
this page incredible; sacrilege is not one of
his vices. However one day in his bath an
idea occurred to him: “A new book may be
remoulded about it—a book that ‘will
need a new title, Lewis Seymour and
Some Women (Ileinemann. per Dymock’s
Library). A delightful title.” he adds.
‘•lf nut as original as my man,
titles, full of suggestion.” He leant °/ her
Ins bath, brusquely breakfasted ,
sprang from the rashers to his dPt n ?nd
Then followed “halcyon days of 1 5 J f
sometimes 2500 words in the dav A • 00 °-
composition Lewis Seymour ' and 30 <f 0Us
Women wag surely; J*gu„ „„ d
three months, written out of the hearth
abundance without interruption of k ts
days or doubts.” So there you b.ve
your choice, a new book or an o h'w
revised, but indubitably a George Moor* ■
That small but select circlejof reader's to
whom George Moore, in the same prefU
confidentially appeals will like this old
in its new bottle. Yet one can never 2
get over the feeling that George Moore *
always trying to be deliberately naughtv
his is great literary art tainted with th.
suspicion of a peeping Tom. fOf course *
should never be criticised in terms of moral
ity ; but George Moore artlessly compels vo,
to: he is too deliberately preoccupied with
the question of sex. Probably a pose i u q
to shock you, but a pose preserved with ■>
too pretentious gravity. Still he takes his
reader to meet Mallarme, and he illuminates
Botticelli with interesting criticism, and dis
cusses ancient literature, and juxtaposes
Life and Art, and tells us the interesting
and audacious story of Lewis Seymour’s in-
timate relations with his three women.
Like so many other modern novels, John
\Y. N. Sullivan’s An Attempt at Life
(Richards, per Dymock’s Library) begins
with a young man accosting a young woman
at night in the street. Of course, when he
glanced' sideways at her face as they passed
a lamp, she smiled faintly, and as he followed
her she looked round and smiled again
Having got this far the modern novelist
knows that his story is well and truly
started. Sullivan’s hero is a serious young
Student Demonstrator at a London college.
He devotes himself to Science on something
over £1 a week, with the vague possibility of
some day becoming an underpaid professor.
James is a serious young man, capable but
uncouth : he can deliver a mathematical lec-
ture, which “consists for the most in writing
symbols on a blackboard and saying ‘hence’
at frequent intervals” ; but he doesn’t quite
know what to do when the young girl kisses
him. His chance encounter with the typiste
develops into a serious attachment, and
then James meets the other girl—a girl living
in a higher strata of life. It is a feckless,
facile and casual society in which James’s
new girl lives, a world where everybody talks
instead of doing, a world utterly innocent of
scientific method or any purpose in life. It
is an interesting, pleasant and realistic piece
of modern life that Sullivan presents; and
the worthy James luckily discovers in time
which of the two girls and which of the two
outlooks on life suit him. James is no hero;
after one attempt to escape the drudgery
and penury of the conscientious student of
abstract science by getting a billet in a
telephone company, James goes back to his
permanent groove. A promising and read-
able first novel.
Barrak, the official organ of the Imperial
Camel Corps, which is chiefly an A.I.F.
concern, makes its first appearance (pub-
lished in Cairo, price one piastre). The
title, we gather, is the word of command
when the C.O. desires the camel to kneel.
The two chief longings of the I.C.C. are to
pet their camels and write lyrics to them.
As this page doesn’t know the language of
the beasts, it is unable to translate the
jokes—but they look good jokes even at this
distance.
Art-lovers will be interested in a little
volume of reproductions of the Etchings of
John Shirlow (Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney). This artistic collection of the work of
Melbourne’s foremost etcher is brilliantly
reproduced by the intaglio process. This
printing method preserves tone values in a
remarkable way. And this volume is said to
be the first Australian book in which the
process has been employed. John Shirlow
has had a long fight for recognition as an
etcher. He had practically to invent his
method, and he had to build his own press
and manufacture his own etching tools.
According to a fellow-etcher, Sydney Ure
Smith, who contributes an illuminating in-
troduction to this collection of 24 etchings,
Shirlow invariably works direct on the cop-
per in the open air, and he accomplishes the
necessary reversing of his subject -without the
aid of a mirror. Judging by this collection
Shirlow is a painstaking but not an inspired
craftsman: his work is thorough but heavy,
and there is little originality in his composi-
tions or in his technique. But the wise
collector will acquire his etchings, and the
art-lover will buy this book. The Melbourne
citizen will find herein his city made artistic,
and though of the three plates left for Sydney
Harbor the first is crude, the other two are
graceful and atmospheric. The etcher has
been asked to allow himself to be nominated
as an Associate of the Royal Society ot
Painter Etchers, London, a recognition well
deserved.
Lima Denham writes an Australasian
Catechism of Carnation Culture (Wyatt,
Melb.; 25.), a fully illustrated text-book,
simply and lucidly written, about the Aus-
tralian perpetual flowering carnation, brim-
ful of facts and with contents admirably
arranged.


ANTHONY HORDERNS' for EVERYTHING
1
Silent WHITE
Sewing Machines.
No. 25V
(shown partly open).
>c -
m-;
v*°£s.
M§m
The WHITE embraces all
that stands for efficiency in
SEWING MACHINES.
THE WHITE PINCH TENSION is with-
out a peer. It pinches the thread just
enough to produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
THE WHITE TENSION INDICATOR
shows the state of the tension at all times.
A tension can be changed or duplicated in
an instant.
THE WHITE TENSION RELEASER,
operating with a lifter bar, instantly re-
moves all tension from the thread.
THE DUST CAPS on needle and presser
bars prevent the ingress of dust; hence
easier, smoother working.
THE WHITE DROP-HEAD AUTO-
MATIC LIFT is the latest improvement
in Sewing Machines, and is a WHITE
feature.
THE WHITE Vibrating Shuttle Machines
are elegantly constructed, with beautiful
swell-front furniture, and are fitted with
ball-bearings and supplied with a full set
of the latest-style Steel Attachments.
No. 24V, with TWO DRAWERS.
£7/17/6.
No. 25V, as illustrated, with FOUR DRAWERS.
£B l7/6.
No. 27V, Avith SIX DRAWERS.
£9/7(6.
for the Country 2/6 Extra; Duplicate parts Always Available.
LADIES’ DAINTY
HANDBAGS.
DURHAM
DOMINO RAZORS.
The phenomenal popularity of the
DUEHA M DUPLEX SAFETY
EAZOE, sold the world over for 21/-,
has led to the introduction of the
DUEHAM DOMINO EAZOE.
The DUEHAM DOMINO EAZOE
is made specially for DUEHAM DU-
PLEX BLADES, and, except for the
handle, is identical with the high-
grade Duplex.
DUEHAM DUPLEX BLADES
are manufactured of the finest carbonised steel, correctly tempered,
ground on two edges, and per’ ctly honed and stropped. The blades
may be stropped by using th 3 1. a .e-holder attachment. When a blade
loses strop it.
DUEHAM DOMIXO EAZOE OUTFIT, comprising Silver-plated
Set, consisting of Eazor, Safety-guard, Stropping Attachment, and
packet of six Double-edged, Hollow-ground Duplex Blades of Finest
Tempered Steel.
THE COMPLETE OUTFIT.
NTHONY HORDERNS’
Xmas Price Lists place
the immense resources
of the New Palace
Emporium at the command of
everyone in Australia, and will
solve the present problem.
Write for copies, posted free on
request:—
Useful Gifts and Popular
Presents;
Xmas Grocery, Perfumery,
and Tobacco;
Books for Xmas and Leisure
Hours ;
Guide to Piccaninnies’
Paradise.
Complete in Leather Case, with Packet of G Blades.
Price - - 5|6
By Post, 5/9.
DURHAM DUPLEX RAZOR BLADES, 2/7 Packet
of Six, Post Free.
THE FENGHURGH
WATCH.
762/13
2510. 17.
The Handbags here illustrated combine novelty
with utility, and will commend themselves to
ladies who desire a change from the ordinary
handbag.
No. 702/13. — Novel Design Bag in fine-
quality Taffeta Silk, silk-lined, with draw
strings l?/“
No. 2510. —Dainty Bag in Silk Moire,
lined White Satin, and superior finish.
In Blue, Brown, and Claret 14/6
No. 2510/17. — Handy Knitting Bag,
with Ring Handles, lined —
In Striped Velvet 8/9
In Striped Silk 8/-
In Black Poplin, colored lining 6/9
In Cretonne 3/9
The FENCHURCH IST ON-MAGNETIC LEVER is a HIGH-GRADE
OPEN-FACE KEYLESS WATCH that CAN BE RELIED ON as an
ACCURATE TIMEKEEPER. It lias a COMPENSATION
BALANCE, is FULLY JEWELLED, and is fitted
either with screw bezel and back or hinge and snap
eases, making it DUST- and WATER-PROOF. A
further advantage is the SHORT WIND.
The FENCHURCH WATCH can be had in NICKEL
SILVER or GUN-METAL and WILL STAND
ROUGH USAGE and HARD WEAR. Its WELL-
FINISHED APPEARANCE and RELIABLE TIME-
KEEPING QUALITIES COMMEND it to those who
DESIRE a HIGH-GRADE WATCH at a LOW-
GRADE PRICE.
IN NICKEL SILVER
IN GUN METAL
The SOLDIER'S FENCHURCH SILVER
with Luminous Dial. A Perfect Timekeeper
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
lB/6
17/6
WRISTLET WATCH,
£.2/12/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers#
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


mi
« * 4
gr-
ml
VgP~K\\
?v
Iff,
1
Watermans (IdeaD Fountain Pen
The Pen of the Allies, the writing implement
adopted by well-informed people in every
civilized land. The Pen that is serving in
every Army of the Allies, doing its bit penfully
and well. The World’s Best Fountain Pen
—Waterman’s Ideal.
Three types—Regular, Safety, and Lever
Self-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
Corner
LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
For your Infant or Invalid
Benger’s Food is appetising and delicious. Even the fresh new
milk used to prepare it is made lighter and easier to digest !
In the tin one food may look like another, but there tho
resemblance of any other food to Benger’s ends. You prepare
Food
a*SA
Ifsed *35 ;n if ! er f ent fr . om + oth , ers * Fresh new milk is always
used, and in a few minutes (see directions) both the Food and
the milk become blended into a dainty cream by a gentle first
process of digestion, self-contained in the Food g
unique ° W6S “*
pr MrED , c Booklet and full particulars poet free from:
BRA NCI? o?nCE ~T PITT MANCHESTER, E„„l,„d
Remjnpon
.44 Cal.
Repeating
Rifle—
<£<
r^
v
A 4
Universal
Arm
12 rj
W W
PROPORTIONATE to
IT their size and power tbe .44
caliber cartridges are tbe lowest in
price. They are universally used
and will give excellent results with
tbe Remington UMC .44 caliber
Repeating Rifle.
Write for special descriptive
booklet sent free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D D. BRYANT, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
a F naS e seT mfort “* "*
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as nossihlp u
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewh/t
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and chareS
are too severe on the enamel. euaicoai
TO S TH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
Brnmmi garden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing deenvt
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tubeeveri'
where. Post free 1/6. Free sample posted. ROC T "E. TOMPSITT &CO Melbourne'
n
5c
vou mav 2 S AVE a few PENCE when
buying SUBSTITUTES but'
WILL PAY YOU IN THE END
ESTABLISHED 1791
SEE
“HORROSXSES’
ON
SELVEDGE
\T7E are willing to
▼ ▼ base our claims
for the Hupmobile on
three points beauty,
performance, value.
It is a car of dis-
tinguished beauty.
It is the four that out-
points not only other
fours, but multi-
cylinder types as well.
Its value is firmly estab-
lished by the satisfac-
tion of thousands of
owners and the reputa-
tion of our firm.
*' mart of superior
'r carstrvtca
Hupmobile
Brief Hupmobile Specifications.
BVTMOBUJB MODELS: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-stater. Motor: Four cylinder, 95 m/m
bore, 140 m/m stroke (3£m. x olin.). Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on
i-sea ter). Tyres, So x 100 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in
eat ! r ’ non '. sk ’ id tyres on all rear wheels. Fully equipped with electric starting
and lighting system, wind screen, hood, side curtains, door-ourtain carriers, speedometer
fulTset CarP f Ct m , t ® nneau ’ five demountable rims, tyre carrier, pump, jack and
at U smaH n f dH°r S ~? laSn t et ° lg “ ,t “ n ’. wire wheels - special colors, khaki hood and seat covers
at small additional cost over list price of car.
5-Seater—Wheel Base 119 inches.
Dealers In Australia and New Zealand-
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DEXNIS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, X.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit
• Michigan,U.S. A.— Cable Address: "HUPP DETROIT.”


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s—all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
8100d —like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidnevs and the bladder. A
wonderful pill-—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
Grease Lubricators.
3
■>sVst^ a
Specify
“DESLYN”
(Reg. Trade Mark)
GREASE CUPS
and see you get them.
Scientific, Economical,
Easily Applied.
Used by N.S.W.
Government.
AUSTRALIAN MADE by
D. F. GLYNN MFG. CO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Wholesale only). ’Phone 7680.
Write for Particulars and list of Supply Houses.
m
m
m
mm
mm
m
mm
m
m
tc?ip
8 si
v.-i|
1%
P> r.
Jr-
<-r»
P*
m
'Mxv
>
fcvv
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
locally it will be posted direct
a plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
t i J BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
• SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
r»,, TT any lustration appearing in The
_ letin takes your fancy, write to the
uager, who will quote you price for it.
Old in the Prime of Life
P)ID you ever stop to think why so many
' people are old at forty—their energy
spent, their resistance weakened, their effi-
ciency dissipated in the very prime of life?
Nine times out of ten constipation is the immedi-
ate cause of premature age. And the tenth
time old age is the result of specific diseases—
like tuberculosis and Bright’s disease—which
could never have taken hold of the system un
less it had already been weakened by the self-
poisoning which is the result of constipation.
There are all kinds of germs in every man’s
body. Usually his system can shake them off—
but not jf his body is clogged with decayed
food—which weakens tissue and feeds germs
at one and the same time.
To keep the body young and vigorous, to re-
lieve constipation and fore-stall disease, use
Nujol. Nujol is not absorbed bv the system
but acts as an internal lubricant
Nujol
TRADE MARK
FOR CONSTIPATION
Ask your chemist for booklet. Sold
only in 16 ounce bottles bearing Nujol
trademark. Never in bulk. Avoid
substitutes.
.STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(New Jr rtey)
U S. A.
3—o. »
m
mm*t\
«,*
m
Ulimiiiili] l
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Power Built In
Power of hold that makes your car
travel safe and sure over rough and
slippery roads. Power of resistance
against wear that means economical,
generous mileage. We urge you to
try Firestone Tyres, because they
are dependable—built for wear and
tear on all roads, in any season.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney,
New South Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria;
and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Ltd., Brisbane,
Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for Illustrated Literature
A
**3
Mf.
9wS
*r
a*
W;
.'Af
v'S-'
•"•ft
lIS
fc’y
»S¥>
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rain.
The fallen years stand upright once again,
Moaning of so-called sins and so-called pain;
And ghosts of long-dead effort; and the
strain
Of strong impos&d laws that could not gain
One wish in all the years’ corroding bane.
And on my hands I feel the white-hot
rain....
Magnificat! The years are surely dead.
Sweet wraiths stand sentinel beside the lane
That all must foreordained take, or fain
Or not; and deep within my earth-cold brain
Is burned their eyes’ immortal passion stain.
How much of Life and Death the years have
ta’en!
And on my heart still beats the cold red
rain....
Magnificat! The years are surely dead.
There is a long cry comes, an old refrain,
Far-calling out of childhood, dear and plain
And strong. Birth and fair Death, the
heaphd grain
Of simple things that mould and bend and
train,
Deep hid for me against this moment’s
pain....
And in my soul still croons the cool white
rain....
Magnificat! No years are ever dead.
N.s.w.
HILARY LOFTING.
Beatrice.
Last night my little dreams came back to me,
With merry eyes and laughter-ruffled hair,
All cool and green and clean from wind and
sea.
As singing leaves tossed in the sparkling air,
As moonbeams prisoned in a pearl of dew,
As slim white lilies they were sweet and
fair.
Whispers of sunlight from bright skies of
blue,
Sobbing of grey waves on a lonely shore
Breathed from their raiment as they rustled
through
The room, a tip-toe, turning at the door
To blow a petal kiss upon my eyes
From the white roses each one of them bore.
With shining faces, innocent yet wise,
My little dreams came back to me last
night—
Not with red roses but the purest white.
n.s.w.
NORA McAULIFFE.
My Little Wowserine.
Erstwhile I had the Sporty Girl —you know
the girl I mean—
Who looked upon the wide world’s sins with
philosophic mien.
The girl who called a spade a spade—an
adjective or so
Before the word (because a spade’s prosai-
cally slow!).
With her I knew the thoughts to think, the
words to glibly say—
And oh! the solemn chapel bells were ever
far away!
Her land was where Bohemians lived, and
where the wine ran red—
In short, she was the Sporty Girl, and what
more need be said?
But on the swirling stream of Life we
drifted far apart,
And now My Little Wowserine is tenant of
my heart.
(Excuse me while I make attempt a ruling
right to get:
Should she be “Little Wowserine” or “Little
Wowserette” ?)
With her I measure what I say, each word
I aptly choose—
And oh! the way I cross my t’s, and mind
my p’s and q’s!
No word of slang must I employ—although
no other word
At times is handy to express the thoughts to
which I’m stirred !
I’ve had to read my Bible up (I bought one
second-hand) ;
For when she talks of miracles I’ve got to
understand.
Yes, it would never do, you know, to let my
darling see
That all those freely-mentioned saints were
not at all like me!
And when the benediction bells peal out I
must give ear—
What though I think of Manly’s beach and
girls of yester-year!
She says there’s music in the sound —and yet
I am afraid
I much prefer the tunes last year the Coogee
breezes play’d !
I’ve got to loathe the Great White Way
(from Railway to the Quay) ;
For that is where the sinners' flaunt their
love and lingerie;
It’s got to be a world apart from hers —and,
yes, from mine—
But oh, the dears I must ignore, and the
luring lights a-shine!
And yet My Little Wowserine has lips as
red as those
Whose lips betoken cochineal, the cherry,
and the rose....
And yesternight she whispered low, her
words rife with complaint:
“Say, he who loved the Sporty Girl is a
failure as a saint!”
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


7000 Miles
on PERDRIAUS
and only one puncture during
five months’ continual travelling
heavily equipped.
This is the record put up by Perdriau Tvres as 1 elated
by Mr. W. Pateman, of Perth, AV.A. This trip was
taken in North-West Australia, where roads are unknown,
and serves to prove the reliability of Perdrian Tvres.
Obtainable through all Oarages or from the Manufacturers—
Perdri&u Rubber Co. Ltd
ALL
STATES.
r .v
SC
tarn*
GOODRICH
Black Safety Tread Tyres
For TYRE ECONOMY.
The secret is right here \OL GKT MORE
MILEAGE FROM THIS TYRE.
It is built with that very end in view.
The real difference in the GOODRICH
SAFETY is that the raised portion of the tread
which stops the skid does not bring a centralised
pressure upon the carcase of the Tyre. The strain
is equalised and distributed evenly by the cross-bars
—the different bars of the group share the strain
between them.
The group plan allows more than one point of
contact and the inner construction is not strained at
any OXE point. Result—your fabric won’t break
down prematurely. Another point after those
cross-bars wear down —and they are a long time at it
—you still have left a good thickness of plain tread.
The Goodrich Safety Tread is an evenly balanced
Tvre —made as a knit —cured as a knit and it
wears as a Unit.
So there is but one conclusion —the Goodrich
Safety Tread is your proper equipment. It gives
not only
MORE MILEAGE, which means
ECONOMY—but more riding comfort and less
wear on the car.
The Goodrich Safety Tread Tyre
The Cheapest Insurance You Ever Bought.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St„
MELBOURNE,
13 Castlereagh St,
SYDNEY,
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MacCallum, Perth; Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart.
5*
KEEP THE HOME
TYRES TURNING
?
PERDRIAU Tyres.
m
i
*i
4^
*
A
THE ABBOT
Pocket Filter
in Strong Nickel-silver Qy jj I /■
Case for Pocket ■ ■ 1
INVALUABLE FOR COUNTRY TRAVELLING.
Filtered water, absolutely pure, may be obtained by simply inserting the
block in water and sucking through rubber tube.
No danger in drinking from a dirty pool if this filter is used.
Tube and filter fit inside case.
To be had through your storekeeper or from the manufacturers —
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building, 350 George St., Sydney.
msM
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
MERITS UNIVERSALLY ADMITTED.
Satisfying the demand which the goodness of the Car
creates is still the makers' one great problem.
The merits of the Dodge Brothers Car are now so univer-
sally admitted that they are rarely a subject of
discussion.
That the Car is all it is represented to be is taken for
granted. That it is good value is conceded. Sales
are very quickly consummated.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 38.—N0. 1971.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1917.
Price Gd.
“NO PLACE FOR US!”
“Australian bricklayers are being invited to volunteer for service at their trade in Britain, where the Munitions Department will employ them. The
Defence Department has good reason to expect an immediate and satisfactory response.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Por £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
rejused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
icords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Daivson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — I'homson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. —A’. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Tloung, Cairo, Egypt,
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Houe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Sioz. to 10oz., 2id.:
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
TfeTZßxzlleiztfi.
THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 22, 1917.
THE TWO SIDES TO A QUESTION
MATH ONLY ONE.
So far as this paper is able to make out, the
case against the employment of compulsion
for the purpose of securing reinforcements
for the Australian army rests upon the
following assortment of allegations, assever-
ations. affirmations and plain yells, that is to
say:—
(1) Human life is sacred.
(2) Australia comes first.
(3) Compulsion to figlit means loss of industrial
freedom.
(4) There is no proposal to conscript wealth.
(5) Australian troops cannot win the war.
(6) The people could be more usefully employed
growing foodstuffs and building ships.
(7) Australia should resist the Prussian system
which her Allies are fighting against.
The case is thus presented by people who
played a conspicuous part in passing the
Commonwealth Defence Act, which makes
military service compulsory on every Aus-
tralian citizen in the event of invasion.
Human life, according to these citizens,
would lose its sacredness if the enemy was
camped by the Yarra. But as at present
the enefliy is mei - ely engaged in the prelimi-
nary step or getting into a position that
would enable him to easily break Australia,
the community is asked not to order any-
body into action —only to implore and even
bribe the eligible to go. It is a queer sort
of contention this —that there is a sacred
duty on Australians to put their lives at the
disposal of the nation in a battle fought on
the premises, but that to do so if the dis-
turbance is kept at a distance involves an
impious traffic in bodies and souls. But
whether it is a cock-eyed argument or not, and
whether Australians should regard human
life as a sacred thing, are problems as
irrelevant to the subject under discussion as
the dimensions of Jupiter. The essential
points are that the Kaiser’s armies are out
on the rampage, firmly convinced that human
life is less sacred than his Majesty’s whisk-
ers: that they have killed many thousands
of Australian ‘soldiers who were urged by the
upholders of voluntaryism to go and put
their lives between the Prussian despot and
Australian freedom: and that the number of
men who are coming forward to announce
that neither their lives nor the lives of Ger-
mans are sacred has fallen away to a
negligible total. The question therefore is,
what are the anti-compulsionists going to do
about the matter in view of the very obvious
Facts that (1) the Kaiser is treating the
sacredness of human life with derision, and
(2) that they cannot induce a sufficient
number of men to take the same view and
enlist? The Bulletin can answer the ques-
tion : they are just going to blither about it
in terms which make ridicule of all they said
when the Defence Act was before the coun-
try, and at the same time turn their advocacy
of voluntaryism into jest. This paper does
not lightly regard human life, but it contem-
plates with something more than contempt
the attitude of men who cackle at one
moment about life being sacred and unctu-
ously snuffle the next about the splendid
response voluntarily given to their call tor
the sacrifice of life.
And so it is with this other yarn about
“Australia coming first” —as if Australia s
interests could best be served by contemplat-
ing a wasting army, or as if the Common-
wealth had something to gain by fighting
with one hand! It is either a wicked
appeal to ignorance or an ignorant invoca-
tion of the Nationalist sentiment for the
basest purpose. It is because Australia does
come first that her sons should to-day be
fighting the German. It is because The
Bulletin thinks of the war only in terms
of Australia —because it sees that unless the
Allies win all the talk of the past about a
free Australia will quickly become mere his-
torical evidence of national vanity—that it
urges the Australian-born to stand by the
altar-fires of human freedom and by their
mates, and fight this thing through to the
end, whatever it may be. The people who
say “Vote ‘No’ because Australia comes
first” are parading a lying, spurious patriot-
ism which may be even something worse.
War is an evil and damnable thing ; but this
country must meet the horror, and, as other
people in past generations and in this have
done, endure its agonies and terrors or be
enslaved beneath a conqueror’s heel. Every
consideration for the future of Australia,
every hope the Commonwealth has of reach-
ing the destiny that was open to it, turns
upon the preservation of the fi’eedom of Aus-
tralians to be the architects of their own
national life. This freedom is in the melting-
pot. It is not a bit of good dreaming that
other people will defend our country. If
other people cannot defend their own coun-
try, what would it avail Australians if they
could say, “Well, we put Australia first and
saved our own skins, anyway”? Less than
nothing! The life of a nation is not sacred
at Berlin. Germany comes first there. We
will not save our skins by staying at home.
* * * *
There is the same exasperating brand of
futility over all the rest of these encourage-
ments to let someone else fight for the
nation’s existence. If industrial freedom
teas at stake, and the loss of it meant no
more than the loss of the freedom to hold up
Australian transports and hospital ships,
there would be no groaning on this page,
anyhow. But when these scaremongers are
making noises about “industrial conscrip-
tion,” what do they mean? They call them-
selves Socialists. They allegedly yearn for
the Socialistic State, though they never make
a workable proposal for achieving it. The
Bulletin invites them to explain how their
Socialist principles would be outraged and
the cause they make so much futile noise
about be damaged if every citizen in Aus-
tralia of military age or beyond it, all hands
and the cook, were summoned to work for
the nation, the entire output of their in-
dustry being appropriated for purposes of the
national needs? To suggest that anyone has
a scheme on hand to “conscript” men and
women to labor for the private profit of
employers is wildly ridiculous. The thing is
impossible and unthought of. And the yell
about “conscription of wealth” is no more
honest. That wealth should be made to bear
the heavy end of the burden is undoubtedly
right. That it will have to do so is certain.
But there is a practical side to proposals of
this kind; indeed, having got an inkling to
that effect, the Australian Labor party, in a
manifesto to the electors in March last,
explicitly declared that it ‘‘was not the in-
tention of the party to make a compulsory
levy upon wealth for any purpose.’' Prior to
the last Conscription poll the party howled
for “conscription of wealth.” Six months
later it said it had no intention of getting
busy on those lines, and amplified the recan-
tation with the statement that “further con-
sideration had shown that such a levy is not
necessary, and that it is sounder finance to
obtain revenue by way of income tax on
incomes derived from wealth.” Now. being
in no danger of having to produce a scheme,
it returns to the old yell. The facts are that
conscription of wealth is going on ; that it can
go much further and on much fairer lines
than now; that there are some things about
Australian wealth that hardly stand talking
about, and that unless the war is won there
will be very little of it to conscript. This
paper is most enthusiastically in favor of
conscripting wealth, and it has over
and over again shown how to do
it. It is also in favor of requiring
everyone who tells an Australian to
vote “No” because conscription of wealth
is not proposed to show (1) that the
£40.000.000 raised by taxation in Australia
this year does not represent a fairly solid
conscription of wealth, and (2) what his
proposals for conscripting more are in con-
crete form. Any reluctance to do this may
reasonably be taken as an indication that
the “No” enthusiast has more hot-air than
constructive ability about him.
* * * *
No one is mad enough to suppose that
five divisions of Australian troops can win
the war. But there have been occasions
when that many troops at the right spot
have prevented the German from winning
it. At the first battle of Ypres a single
division of Canadian soldiers prevented an
overwhelming disaster to the Allies. At
Verdun fewer than five divisions of French-
men held up that first terrible German
assault which, had it reached its objective,
would have opened the road to Paris. The
question is not whether our divisions can
win the war. but whether they can best
assist the men of other countries to win by-
being kept at fighting strength or by being
denied reinforcements. If the argument is
that men are not wanted, what are volun-
taryists asking men to enlist for. It they
are wanted, will the voluntaryists explain
preciselv how. under their scheme, they are
to be got? Will they also explain precisely
what advantages are gained by Billjim
at the Front tvhen reinforcements are kept
at home because there is not a big enough
Australian army to burst through >on
Hindenburg’s iine? This, after all, is the
crux of the business —where are the men/
The antis say they ought to be in Australia
growing vegetables. The Bulletin say s
they ought to be at the Front —that the war
cannot be won with vegetables. Australia
could have nothing to look forward to ex-
cept a certain victory- for the German arms
if the rule of conduct advocated by Tudor
were acted upon by Britain and the L nited
States and France. For us to say that
because the Australian people have not
evolved a perfect system of economic jus-
tice ; because chops are not 2d. a pound:
because the disease of party politics has
eaten deep into the national fibre; because
there is a prevalent fear of having to work
another hour a day or something—that
because of these considerations Australia
must stand aside and see the world battle
against a malignant despotism without
exerting our full powers of co-operation
would be a monstrous betrayal of our
freedom and our future.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
MAX.
Nature, busy at the eternal job of evolving
skylarks and monkeys from protoplasm, sud-
denly found a creature that had jumped her
creative claim and was developing according
to his own plan instead of hers. She had
made the thing better than a monkey for the
practical business of running round and find-
ing food in quantity and variety. It could
walk and run as well as it could climb, and
was gifted with an abnormal cunning which
made it, in spite of its natural weakness,
more than a match for all the claws and
fangs of the jungle. Just how it acquired
30oz. or so of brain against the 6oz. or Boz.
of its nearest animal relatives no scientist
has yet been able to explain. One theory
has been advanced that it discovered alcohol,
and, maddening itself into a sort of per-
manent delirium, so forced the blood to its
head that in a comparatively short space of
time abnormal brain was developed. Another
is that the whole break-away from the less-
intelligent forms of life was due to a single
freak creature, absolutely insane from the
point of view of its fellows, which contrived
to exist and perpetuate a freak race. What-
ever may be the truth, Man first appears in
fossil as man. He has some eccentricities
of leg and jaw in the earlier forms; but the
top part of the most remote cave-man was
very much like the thing that goes under a
belltopper to-day. The gap that divided that
cave-man from the nearest thing in the
animal world was very little narrower than
that which to-day divides the anthropoid ape
from W. M. Hughes or Lloyd George.
This was the source of his abounding con-
ceit. Short of protective hair, with soft
claws and a particularly poor assortment of
fighting teeth, the thing that was a mere
mouthful for the dinosaurus, and no more
than a moderate meal for the tiger, prided
itself upon being the boss of all creation, and
proved its vaunt by the way in which it
tricked and defeated every living creature.
That gave it the notion that it was different
from all other forms of life. To a certain
extent it could project its mind to a distance
and visualise scenes that were not present.
That evolved in its brain the idea of a soul
distinct from the body, and in process of
time certain mental characteristics were
developed which fortified the belief. Dim
shadows in the forest, flashes of moonlight
through the rifted clouds, the lengthened
star-reflections in deep pools, and scores of
other things took on forms of apparent life
and were associated in the primitive mind
with the soul. Thus there arose a supernat-
ural world which pervaded all nature and
mixed with all the elements; and the gods,
devils, nymphs, angels and other assorted
spirits more or less resembling Man himself
got a fixed and abiding place in the human
understanding. The best brains of the race
played with these things, describing them,
corelating them, working them out in picture
and song until the supernatural was as im-
portant in the scheme of things as the
natural. Then Man puffed out his chest more
than ever, held his head a trifle higher and
refused to associate with his animal kin.
asserting that he was made in the image of
his gods, and had an undying nature which
nothing could destroy. He pictured himself
in his own thoughts as a god. He studi-
ously ignored the points he had in common
with the cat and porcupine; and in all philo-
sophic consideration of his own affairs re-
fused to even think of himself in his animal
relation. He didn’t tread the air, but he
thought he did. The so-called spiritual part
of his nature was only about one-eighth of
his entire make-up, but he regarded it as
seven-eighths. In a word, the tremendous
mental conceit of the animal Man warped
his judgment on practically every matter of
vital concern to his race.
* * * *
It is for this reason that wars are pos-
sible. that systems of government crack
across the spine or slide down into mere
flaccid futility. The ideal part of Man in-
sists upon being his guide in all important
matters, and the animal part of him gets up
raging and destroys the work of the spirit.
Nothing could possibly be more absurd than
war between nations of reasoning, thought-
ful beings Heading the literature of Man.
from the tome in glossy calf-binding with
tooled gilt ornament to the evening news-
paper. there can be no question about the
ridiculous nature of a strife between organ-
ised nations bent merely on destruction In
that literature may be read the story of
great humanitarian movements, the advances
of arts and crafts for the improvement of
human conditions, the history of a thousand
fine efforts in the wide and ever-extending
spheres of thought: but there is not the
smallest indication of any desire on tl
part of individuals or nations to chon nn
another into sausage-meat or bring I P o h
other's homes down in ruin and bitter ash &
Man as represented by his writings mean,
very little else but good ; yet the nation that
reads and the men who write can very easily
be drawn into a vast tragedy of blood and
tears. Ihe explanation is simple enoutrh
The animal in Man has nothing to do with
the written word, nothing to do with th P
finer thought or purpose—he still ranges the
woods in packs and is ready to bpre his teeth
at the first growl from beyond the bushes
that form his hunting boundarv. Within
the last three years the transparency and
weakness of the humanitarian sentiment in
the average man have been abundantly
proved in the great war which is desolating
Europe. Men who would have shrunk from
the slaughter of a kitten in 1914 are now
ready to slay their brothers with bomb and
bayonet, and may even be found glorying in
the slaying. The whole theory of war is
a denial of Man’s spiritual nature; but
there is not enough spirit in the human
mixture to make war impossible. Again
with regard to the machinery of democratic
government, all political movements are
based upon the idea that the thinking part
of a community desires to rule. Probably
if does; but the wild thing of the forest
still goes to the ballot-box with very much
the intent of the followers in the pack who
desired to pull down a stag or tear up a
mastodon. In spite of the varnish of so-
called civilisation, a very large proportion
of the world’s population is still in the
Stone Age —particularly that section which
lives in the great cities of the countries
that are supposed to have advanced most.
Not only is this so, however, but the plain
savage in the most cultured man of all
clamors for a hearing. Man’s political pro-
gress is a thing of the mass rather than of
the individual. A Herbert Spencer—
extinct volcano as he may be in the view
of people who endure philosophy—is further
from the average agricultural laborer of to-
day than the twentieth century is from the
fifty-sixth century B.c. The lack of pro-
gress and the recrudescence of old, bad
things in the fields of modern adventure is
mainly due to the failure of those who are
in the forefront of thought to recognise this.
Laws, ordinances and systems are built to
fit the thing -which Man in his best hours
believes himself to be, not to meet the
requirements of Man as he really is.
■* * * *
The ancient stars look down with tired
eyes on this strange antheap of a world
on which men run round in proud circles,
storing up supplies of mental fodder that
contains little nourishment, and carefully
hatching out broods of invention and theory
which may enable them to store up more.
To the twinklers in the sky it seems a
strange jest; for the tooth of the gun and
the talon of the torpedo still tear and
destroy at the will of Man as fiercely as they
did in the primeval jungle. The sum of
human gains, when all deductions are
properly made and the final balance is sub-
mitted. seems to amount to nothing in pro-
portion to the energy expended. Setting
aside the mere means of life which, how-
ever ingenious they may be. can only be
judged by the achievements of the life they
support. progress would seem to have stopped
a great many centuries ago. Organised,
arranged, threaded with nerves of sympathy
and with peopled continent rhyming to
traffic-laden ocean, the world, as written by
Man. might have become a triumphant
poem. Instead, it is a loose jumble of un-
related words —some good, some bad: but
all futile because they are more or less in
the wrong place. Yet Man has developed
one thing which has in it possibilities of
salvation for the race. He has developed a
sense of humor and learned to laugh at
himself. Up to the present this sense,
though very widespread, is not very strong:
but in it lies a great hope. It is the
counterpoise to the spiritual vanity which
in vaunting the glory of human achieve-
ment ignores entirely human needs. Fine
tears, shed not for personal pain but for the
pains and sorrows of others, are probably to
be counted among the very chief of Mans
riches; but tears will not redeem the world.
Laughter has a dynamic force that sorrow
never can possess: and when the whole race
of Man learns to honestly laugh at the futile
discord of the thing it has so far produced,
the great lines of the human poem will begin
to fall into place. Like every lesser poem,
that mighty work must be written lettei
by letter, with crook and turn and dnt.
and there will be no glory or beauty in the
mere - details of the script. The characters
which form the words will be plain ploughl-
and looms, breakfasts and dinners, spec-
tacled faces and leather-clad ankles, aero-
planes and sausages and ginger-beer: but ou
of them all there should come real music-
Hitherto kings have walked mincingly 1D
uncomfortable gold hats, and little children
have cried in sheer animal hunger to
bread, while between them, in solemn dulnes
of spiritual pride, somebody has written a
book on political economy to explain tha
the things that are have method and mean-
ing. Man must learn to laugh at tha .
for ridicule is a heavier weapon than any
thing that reeks fumes of death along t
German front. The race has tried to sa\
itself by swords, machines, ballot-boxes an
even dreams of imperial unity with the 1
perator cut out; but its salvation lies 1
quite another direction. When Man gets
proper estimate of himself, realises that n ■
feet are on the earth even though his
may be among the stars, there will be be
laughter—and after that better living a
better men. -
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Allies Enter into an Alliance.
There is internal evidence in the comm -
made in London upon the Paris spccc
which Lloyd George announced the * or ‘
tion of ah Allied Council of War that * -
tralia has been supplied with only pa
what the busy little man had to saV rjlin
it seems to be clear enough that justiru. ‘
for the speech did not rest in either


exceptionally favorable military position of
the Allies or the ascendancy secured over
the enemy during the past year’s fighting.
Lloyd George’s proposal was based appar-
ently on a recognition of the existing system
having yielded “incredible blunders,” mighty
little progress except in the newspapers, and
poor promise of eventual victory; and all
this seems at least sufficiently important to
suggest a reasonable trial of other methods.
Wherefore comes this agreement under
which the Allies shall make their co-opera-
tion something less of a myth. The amazing
thing is tliht this had not been done before
and that there should be people who imagine
that the direction of the war should be
left to individual generals and separate Gov-
ernments each with only a vague knowledge
of what the others are doing. In the
absence of s¥me central authority, who is to
know that what is being done in one place
has any connection with what is transpiring
in another, or that, something which ought
to be done in a third direction is undone
because someone is engaged in a futile enter-
prise at an altogether different address?
Anyone who imagines that the campaigns
of the enemy are directed from local, inde-
pendent headquarters in the vicinity of the
multitudinous Fronts is the victim of a dan-
gerous delusion. The plan now proposed to
go upon is one which, while leaving the
various General Staffs responsible to their
respective Governments, brings each Com-
mand and each Ministry within the purview
of a joint authority. Apprehension that this
may mean taking away some measure of
authority from Ministries and hampering
General Staffs looks on the face of it not
much more than a bogey. And after what
has happened in Russia, lioumania and
Italy and has occurred more than once on
the Western Front, and remembering also
Mesopotamia, Salonica.and the Dardanelles,
it is not a very impressive bogey either.
The objective of the Allies is a common one.
It is made no less so by operating as one
intsead of as several. Nor are blunders any
more likely to be repeated by noticing that
there have been blunders and correcting the
confusion to which they may be attributed.
Tidying up a mess is quite as useful in war
as talking about a victory when there isn’t
one. At bedrock this is what Lloy'd George
has started to do and, incidentally, bring the
Allies into alliance.
♦
Victoria Pushes Peacock off His Perch.
Up to the time of the State elections in
Victoria last week Peacock had wagged the
Liberal tail. When everything had finished
the only certain thing was that the tail
would in future wag Peacock, , for it
seems that fewer than a dozen of Alex-
ander’s followers will be returned to tlfe
Assembly. His position was n ore or less
hopeless, anyway, and as he took only an
obscure part in the proceedings, and as the
Liberals were nearly everywhere disowning
him, what happened probably gave Peacock
no more surprise than it gave anyone else.
The record of the Ministry had been one of
almost unparalleled ineptitude. It had
shown itself unable to grapple with even the
most simple issue, and in the region of
finance displayed a' fatuity scarcely believ-
able. Nerveless, wasteful and improvident,
Peacock and his mates simply sat round
the cash-box groaning “God help us!”
and waiting miserably to see what was going
to happen next. At the election there was
nothing to be said for them and nobody tried
to say it. But, except that the electors
have given the old gang notice to quit, the
results of the polling are not very
clear. In all 35 Liberals and 21 Labor-
ites have been returned, but what these
Liberals are going to do about anything
else except dividing up the jobs among
themselves is one of the matters so far
shrouded in gloom. Most of them stand
pledged to a policy of checking the flow of
public credit and money into the sink, but
few. if any, have expressed admiration for
such an innovation except in the most gen-
eral terms. Brother Bowser, the nominal
leader of the Economy section, watched the
election from afar and is generally suspected
of having serious objections to any form
of economy which might be unpopular in
the neighborhood of Wangaratta. Agar
Wynne, however, who comes in on the anti-
I’facock ticket for St. Kilda, preached a
thorough-going overhaul of public policy in
relation to finance. Whether Bowserism or
Wynnery is going to prevail is one of the
details nobody knows anything about.
Had Labor been able to offer the electors
anything better than a copious supply of
phrases—had it shown a reasonable grasp
of the tremendous difficulties the State is
getting bogged in—the results of the election
might have been very different. But it
didn’t, and apparently cannot make up its
mind about what is occurring under its nose.
Wherefore Victoria, which, like every other
State in the Commonwealth, stands in sore
need of a Parliament prepared to cut away
from the vicious old habits of squander and
boost, gets one of which the oest that can
be said is that it is not in favor of Peacock.
A Volunteer Aristocracy.
The people who still profess to be democrats
and cling to the notion that the first duty
of citizenship should be voluntary have
missed a fine lesson which the biggest mili-
tary nation the world ever saw died to
teach. Rome had conscription on its statute
book for application in one case only. Every
man in the republic must enrol if the Gauls
made a descent; otherwise the business of
arms was voluntary. When the Gauls ceased
to trouble the State the conscription law was
forgotten. But as the power of the city grew
and Roman triumphs extended, the game of
fighting became profitable to the soldiers
who shared the spoil. It was thereupon
established that no citizen could enter the
army unless he had a property qualification
of a pretty solid sort. No mere odd-job man
need apply for a brass helmet unless he
looked hefty enough to find a backer who
would put up the cash for him and take out
the lOU in plunder from Gaul or Spain.
As a matter of fact, such backers were found
among the money-lenders of the time; and
the surest road to success for a penniless
young citizen athlete was to borrow on his
physique, go to a war and permanently join
the military aristocracy. Cavalry jobs were
kept for old families and were the cream of
the whole affair. This voluntary system
worked with moderate success _ until
Augustus made bounds to the empire and
something like a century of peace with
swagger overtook the army. That was the
ruin of everything. Volunteer soldiers doing
drill and polishing brass saw the sort of
people who ruled at home, and the army
with its knife in its hands took a turn at
politics in its own fashion. The armies
from time to time ruled the State, made
emperors when they chose, and generally
prepared the way for total smash. Had the
whole Roman citizenship been trained to
arms nothing of the kind could have hap-
pened. Conscription would have been the
solid basis of orderly government, and, with
no troubles at home, anything that looked
like a foe could have been consistently
smashed. But the volunteer aristocracy of
arms—and voluntaryism must always pro-
duce an aristocracy—made it clear to
wrangling factions that fighting forces were
all that could count. German legions were
enlisted on the Danube and Rhine, in defi-
ance of the old Roman custom ; and in the
end, when their services were needed, the
defenders of the empire’s peace were mostly
people who didn’t care one stolen cabbage
for the empire. As a sidelight on the demo-
cratic principle of Conscription those old
facts stand large and red.
[To express the opinions of Tun Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
♦
Ryan and His Mates.
Randolph Bedford looks round his new
quarters and gives his friends a testimonial:
The youth, the ability, the enthusiasm and the
humor are on the Government side in Queensland;
and, quite naturally, most of the imported and un-
Australian men in Parliament are in Opposition.
Either the despair of the last three years has got
them down so that they cannot use their intelli-
gence, or they have no intelligence to use. Their
“attacks” are pitiful: the uncovering of mares’
nests ; the old charges of disloyalty and corruption,
without evidence, as an hysterical female accuses all
men, or as the Rev. William Bloodcurdle “exposes”
nothing, and when himself exposed finds a new lie
to yell with greather vociferation than ever. After
charging the Government with bribery, corruption,
simony, embracery, piracy, sedition, heresy and
schism, should a Government supporter retort with
the truth of calling one of them a “driveller,” or
even the “misrepresentative” of his constituency,
they rise to points of order—those Parliamentary
devices to cover mental sterility or laziness—and
speak of their “dignity” and -the “dignity” of the
’Ouse.
The time wasted in foolish questions is mon-
strous. They do not ask how many efficients there
are in such and such a service, but how many
“Cartherlicks” and how many “Prodistans.” All
of them agree that the Government is a ruffian, and
that food isn’t dear enough. Some of them who
do not make charges of corruption every day rise
as a habit to points of order, or complain that
no “Prodistan” can get a job in the Insurance
Department, whose list showed that of 127 employed
77 were Protestants. It is a mean, fatuous and
impotent Opposition as expressed by its most
voluble units; and it raves for Hughes and against
Ryan, angry because the Government refuses to
take anybody’s dust, least of all the dust of
Hughes.
The Government brought back quality with its
quantity from the last election. It is a Govern-
ment of youth, strength, ability and enthusi-
asm—nearly all Australian-born and the most
Australian Government that Australia has ever
known. Its Ministers do not give all their force
to private business, bringing the fag-ends of energy
and intelligence to the service of the State after the
day’s work is almost done, and thereby handing
administration over to bureaucracy. They are in their
offices at nine in the morning, and leave them at
five in the afternoon, as a rule. If the profes-
sional politician produces such professional admin-
istrators as Premier Ryan, Treasurer Theodore and
Justice Minister Fiiielly —with that strong person-
ality, Speaker McCormack, left out of the list
only because of his Speakership —then loud cheers for
professional politicians !
They are all big men physically, Theodore and
McCormack the biggest. These worked together as
miners in the North, and began their political lives
practically together. Theodore has been a miner
since boyhood, and has walked about a deal of Aus-
tralia —Beltana to Tareoola and back again being
one of his marches. Well read, a good speaker and
forcible, an able administrator, he must go far in
Australian politics. Physically he is a world-
beater ; mention Theodore’s name in the presence
of Hugh Mclntosh, who loves force of any sort,
and he becomes enthusiastic. Theodore's father
was a Roumanian, and a good Australian; and
the Queensland man’s face is of old Rome. His
mother is from Lancashire; she is now living among
the orange-groves of Buderim. Her boys grew
up in an orchard in Adelaide Hills, and their mode
of life is fixed wherever they go.
Premier Ryan is a big man, a brainy man, and
with a kindliness and ability to make himself liked,
which is another sort of genius. A sound lawyer,
too, and of the mass of litigation in which his Gov-
ernment was involved, more for political purposes
than for any other, he has won all cases yet final-
ised. An ideal leader, with the ideal Australian
brain, receptive and tenacious, supple and rapid.
Justice Minister Fiiielly has that same Australian-
ism in excelsis. One of the great successes of the
Government’s State-ownership—State Insurance —is
his. A man in his beginnings only, his must be a
great name yet in Australia.
The other Ministers, Lennon, Hunter, Hardacre,
lluxiiam and Coyne, bring thoroughness and adapta-
bility to their work; and Alfred Jones, Minister
for Mines and Leader of the Leg. Council, sees in
his Department the beginning of a new State, with
Government iron and steel works and Government
coal and petroleum. A big man with the face and
air of a big frank boy, although he is old enough
to be the father of two soldiers now in France.
Of the Northern men there are the other two
Ryans—Harry of Cook and Dan of Townsville —
Collins of Bowen, Forgan Smith of Mackay,
Barber of Bundaberg, and Peterson of Normandy—
the last the sort of farmers’ Labor representative who
is bringing the small men on the land trooping into
the Labor leagues, a fact helped by the Govern-
ment’s new bills to eliminate the commission-agent
and handle produce through State markets. Ford
of Rockhamption is the boy of the Assembly and a
colt full of promise. George Pollock of
Gregory is little older. A typical lengthy
Westerner, he once inquired, while the Assembly
waited for his Ex., “Why isn’t the Governor here
to earn his dough?”
They are a good party and a sane party, and the
only Opposition ammunition against them is abuse
and sectarianism and the mean slanderers who
begin with charges of corruption and graft and
bribery and end with mares’ nests. They have
consistently fought the imported 1.W.W.; they are
the only real Australians governing in the States, and
they deserve well of their country.
*
Straightening Up the Wheat Pool
Muddle.
Before the Federal Government embarks on
any gigantic scheme of controlling export
industries, it is a fair thing to reckon up
how the same job has been handled as far
as it has gone. No one expects perfection in
a new undertaking, but reasonable common-
sense is to be expected, and that has been
wanting in the administration of the Wheat
Pool to date. It is common knowledge that,
owing to bad weather, mice plague, careless
stacking and faulty supervision, the state of
the 1916-17 crop in N. S. Wales is rotten.
An uncountable but enormous proportion of
it is hopelessly damaged and unfit for human
food. Sold to Great Britain, there has
already been trouble over the shipment of
inferior and weevily Wheat. One vessel at
least has had to be unloaded because the
skipper refused to give a clean receipt for
the grain, etc., that had been put on board.
Hundreds of stacks in the country are little
better, at this moment, than heaps of wasted
tucker. The business-like plan would be to
admit that a loss must be written off, and
endeavor to dispose of as much of this
damaged grain as possible in the quickest
rime. Poultry-men would consume a great
lot of it; so would pig-raisers. In both cases
a profitable and sound industry would be
fostered and would expand. Yet the Wheat
Office stubbornly refuses to recognise the
inevitable, and poultry-farming, if anything,
is on the decline because food is so scarce !
Fowl-feed is costing anything from 4s. 6d.
to ss. 6d. per bushel, while all over the coun-
try grain is rotting and becoming weevily
and maggotty. Furthermore, when the occa-
sion demands that every inducement should
be offered to use up wheat, the mills are kept
on a skimped allowance. Recently it was
reported that the flourmills in Sydney might
have to go on short time owing to lack of
supplies! This is simply criminal. The big
mills have orders and are ready to run
double shifts if they can get the wheat—and
there is wheat wasting by the million
bushels. The extraordinary individuals who
have been dominating this horrible misad-
venture have made it a rule never to allow
the mills more than a few days’ supply at a
time. Apparently at the start there was a
deep-rooted suspicion that the millers might
make a profit; and apparently that had to
be prevented at any cost. The new manager,
who is said to possess ordinary sense and
some knowledge of the wheat business, will
need the courage to reverse almost every
action of the Board. All wheat unfit for
milling ought to be put on the market. The
chicken-men are asking for it—the cockies
who have grown the wheat and own it still
have declared in favor of selling it while it
can be sold. In addition, every bag of wheat
that the mills can take should be gleefully
shoved into their yards and stores. There is
another wheat crop in sight, and the faster
the old stacks disappear the happier all
hands will be. The argument that portion
of the wheat belongs to the British authori-
ties is futile. The wheat was bought as fair
average quality, and it is asinine to think
that weevily, fly-blown and otherwise dam-
aged stuff is going to be accepted for good
hard cash. As an honest people, do we pro-
pose to try to work any such confidence
trick, anyhow? We must face the fact that
the bulk' of the N. S. Wales 1916-17 crop,
at any rate, will have to be consumed in
Australia, and the sooner the job is started
the better; for the stacks are merely breed-
ing places for pests, and in that respect are
getting worse every week.
*
“Returned Empty.”
C. H. Souteb’s vignette: —
“Yes, I wanted to have a pitch with you, Sophie.
Sit down on this log, won’t you? 1....1 know
what I look like. 1 stole a hand-glass from Nurse
before I left. A shell fragment did it.
“What? You didn’t think it would be my face?
Thought it might be some old chunk out of my
body? Well, that’s hard luck, because, you see—- —
“Eh? What? You’d rather—oh, damn it,
Sophie! D’you mean that? Oh, well, of course. I
didn’t know women were. .. .No, that’s right—l
won’t be able to earn as much as I was doing when
wo got engaged. But I can make enough to keep
us both and.... and —well, you know. Oh, of course
I’ll try, but I don’t think I can. Still, I didn’t,
think that mattered as long as I did my bit
“Of course! What did they cost? What are
they ? Ermine ! Twenty pounds ! Good God ! Why,
there’s only a bit of a collar and a muff!....l’d
have given all the money I have for those when I
was slowly freezing in IS inches of mud. Sophie !
Have you ever been really cold, so cold that you
wanted to curse and cry and kill yourself? But
if I had had a leather jacket—even a sheepskin
would have done —and a pair of trench boots that
night at Ypres I don’t think I should have come
back to you with half a face. God, I simply couldn’t
keep still, and, so as not to be frozen dead, I began
to hop about and swing my arms and.... somehow I
must have raised my head above the bags. And then
it came—a nearly spent, overdue ‘H.E.’ went off
just in front, and a chunk of the case caught me
here—you see !
“And that makes nil the difference, does it, little
girl? I’m 50rry....1 wonder whose fault it was—■
mine or yours?”
V.D. in Queensland.
The recently-published renort of the Com-
missioner of Public Health of Queensland
throws some interesting light upon the prev-
alence of venereal disease, and incidentally
upon the attitude from which it appears to
be officially regarded. In the metropolitan
area for 12 months to 31st June, 1477 cases
of venereal disease were notified, 329 being
syphilis and 1148 gonorrhoea. The total
cases reported in the same area during the
same period for all the so-called other infec-
tious diseases, numbering 14 in all. and
including typhoid, diphtheria, scarlet, fever
and phthisis, were 158, or 1319 less than Un-
recorded toll of venereal diseases. Ihc
source of infection in 132 cases is stated to
have been in houses where the inmates are
examined by the Department, which shows
that this supposed safeguard is by no means
reliable; 334 cases are returned as ascribing
their infection to street prostitutes, and 895
to non-prostitutes, which shows how en-
tirely inadequate is the examination of
the professional women of convenience.
Attendances at the Venereal. Diseases
Clinics, held at the Brisbane Hospital
four times weekly, numbered 3060 pales
and 316 females, and 116 infected prostitutes
were admitted to the special ward at the
Brisbane Hospital. The most unsatisfactory
feature of the Commissioner’s report is the
evident delay which has taken place in fram-
ing regulations to enable the Act to be
fitted to the working requirements. Recom-
mendations have been made to the Gov-
ernment to provide clinics at outside
centres, but “details of an administrative
nature have not yet been arranged.” If
the Ryan Government can spare a little
time for the real welfare of the people this
should impel it to put a vigorous boot into
the place where the arranging should be
done. The prevalence of venereal diseases
in certain northern centres is, and for years
past has been, notorious. The ordinary per-
son looks to the Public Health people for
outspoken constructive criticism on subjects
relating to disease, but the Queensland Com-
missioner seems to be balanced on a rail
when it comes to compulsory examination of
prostitutes, and offers a sort of half-apology
to “some moralists.” He also recommends
that “a broad educative propaganda on well
defined lines be launched and placed upon
a sound foundation.” This reads rather
like running his ship ashore, and he omits
to give any indication of what either the
lines or the foundation are to consist of.
except a hazy suggestion of teaching sex-
hygiene in “the home, the school, or by the
clergy.” Teaching this subject by the clergy
—the celibate Catholic clergy, or the tight-
lipped wowser, to take two illustrative ex-
amples—-might be expected to lead to some
curious results. But the outstanding ques-
tion is, who is delaying those regulations?
If they are wound up in red-tape, or crying
for release from some pigeon-hole, it is up
to someone in authority to get them released
without further delay. But even more is
it up to every Australian to do his bit to
get the whole question of tackling venereal
disease put on a definite working basis
throughout Australia. It is truly a national
matter. Every syphilitic of to-day means
at least two less native-born Australians of
20 years hence. Gonorrhoea is responsible
for three-fourths of the sterile women, and
for about the same proportion of cases of
infant blindness. From the military stand-
point it is vital, for no man is fit for the
firing-line unless he is clear of venereal
disease.
+.
Listen to Tudor ranting quite beside the
point:—
I sincerely trust that Australia will again show that
she will have nothing whatever to do with that cursed
military system which has caused Europe to be
plunged into chaos. I maintain now, as I did during
the whole of the last referendum campaign, that the
Government of this country can have no right to
deal with human life as proposed by the Prime
Minister. Human life is sacred.
Is it worth while to tell the dupes of Tudor
that the German military system which has
plunged Europe into chaos will inevitably
be the system of Australia for all time, under
German rule, unless it is overthrown by the
forces of temporary Conscription in the
Allied countries? Is it worth while to tell
Tudor’s dupes that human life isn't sacred
to the Huns, and that the state of Belgium.
Servia and Northern France is a horrible
satire on Tudor’s rhodomontade? No, it
probably is not worth wdiile. The disciples
of Tudor haven’t sufficient imagination to
picture the results of a defeat of Britain.
They are not mostlv wicked. They are not
even mostly disloyal. They are only mostly
dull.
*.
Dr. Richard Arthur writes :
This matter of child endowment is too important
to drop without a last word. All the opponents of
my proposal have started off on a wrong trail. I
don’t suggest endowment for the child who might
be born, but for the child who has been born. My
trouble is the kid of to-day with the empty
stomach. No one believes that the offer of a
paltry ss. a week would bring a single extra child
into the world in Australia.
I have received many letters from mothers of
families of from 10 to 18 children, commending my
scheme. How shall I reply to them ? Shall I say:
“If you and your husband had studied diligently
the doctrines of Malthus and Besant in the days
of your youth, you could have had a lifetime of
comparative ease and comfort, with a respectable
family of two. However, as, owing to your scan-
dalous self-indulgence and lack of self-restraint, you
have brought all these unnecessary children into
being, you must pay the penalty of your wrong-
doing and starve along with them.” I wait for mv
opponents to say if I shall send this reply to the
mother of 18 little Australians. In the meantime
let all the decent married women who can’t afford
or are too refined to have any children, or at most
have only one or two—let them cast a stone at this
shameless progenitrix of a White Australia!
“W.M.A.”: “Rustic” (B. 25/10/T7). com-
menting on the 691 applicants for a Crown
lease of 5000 acres in N. S. Wales, contends
that the majority w r ere not genuinely land-
hungry, but were only attracted by a par-
ticularly good business prospect. Maybe:
but the same gag is always officially used i)
Queensland to cover up the Department’s in-
capacity to meet the demand for land. There,
to prove that there is no scarcity of land, it
is said in a grand way that 10,000,000 acres
are now offering. It isn’t explained that if
there w’as one good business proposition in
the 10,000,000 acres it would not be begging
five minutes. Years ago there was a raven-
ous demand for land in the Dalby district.
To satisfy it, the Government bought Jim
bour —paid too much for it, of course—and
offered it at a price the local people would
not look at. After a time they induced
strangers to bite —strangers with big capital.
The result we all know. It would have been
a thousand times better to have put the


[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior John
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Svd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
ms
--*3:
all:
URE
Slum
Mf
tern <ji
JILL
wm*
e»3SpS£«2*
TO
_•
> .
t; !M
ifa!
fesi-> rlii
i:;M
t*»- «* «
Sfl
H'--
WFK*fV^
T'--—'
«>4*^
u fitS
The Premier Motel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
Crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B- ths.
New Furnishings.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Everv
Convenience and Quick Service.*
Automatic Telephones in every
Hoorn. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
tor use of Guests,
l hoice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Pull Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d'hhte.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
nne
Life and
o*x
tM,
‘Australia"
Wfnter Garden
whole estate, in living-area homesteads,
to the hammer without reserve. We com-
plain about the rush to the cities, but when-
ever in the last 15 years in Bananaland a
good business proposition has been offered
in the old lonely bush it has discovered a
strong, unsatisfied demand for a country life.
No Government up North ever tries to
satisfy the demand for good propositions in
country lots. Liberals say it is impossible,
because there is no such land; and the
thought of turning faithful unionists into
independent farmers sends a shiver down
Labor’s back. Shall we ever get a Premier
who will view this question from the
national standpoint ? When we do, he will
discover that, notwithstanding the valuable
pioneer work of the squatter, he has re-
mained in possession beyond his time of use-
fulness. From being a temporary occupant
of our waste lands he has become a power-
ful stumbling-block to settlement.
Shall We Sacrifice Bill along with the
Christmas Turkey?
It is easy to see now r why the German con-
sidered that there were matters of greater
importance to attend to than marching into
Russia. However he looked at it, the most
judicious thing for him to do was to leave
the Bear alone. This gave the Teuton
greater freedom elsewhere, and permitted
Russia to concentrate on the job of creating
a local chaos highly favorable to the benevo-
lent ambitions entertained at Potsdam. The
most complete German victories in the field
could not have done much more than reduce
Russia to the demoralised condition that
wretched locality is now in. From revolu-
tion to civil war is always a simple step, and
it will be quite soon enough for the Kaiser
to interfere after the Russians have finished
fighting one another. Then, unless he is
defeated on the Western Front, the German
will certainly be able to help himself and his
neighbors to as much of the Bear as they
want; hence the tremendous importance of
not being defeated on the Western Front.
For that reason there is reason to expect
that Germany will make even more pro-
digious efforts in that quarter. In Italy the
events heard of at the beginning of the week
were a long way more cheerful. The retreat-
ing army had come to bay, and was fiercely
disputing the enemy's further advance.
Reinforcements had arrived from France.
There was nothing very certain about what
would happen next, it is true, but there was
at least encouragement for believing that the
Italian had got his second wind and would
hold back the disaster threatening him. In
Flanders a renew r al of fighting eastward of
Ypres had given the British troops some
additional advantages; but winter is closing
down quickly now, and the job of shifting
Fbitz and his ironmongery off the premises
looms out of the mud as large as ever. This
is the fourth winter of the war, and who is
there can see Germany now holding fewer
trumps than in the first? If it be true that
the danger of the submarine is reallv being
eliminated, then, despite Russia and the
Italian calamity, the enemy is worse off than
he was originally. But the same thing has
been said many times before; and it were
safer to wait and see what happens next
before singing any hosannas. Of our own
lads there comes good news from Palestine.
When last heard from they were at Jaffa,
which is over beyond Jerusalem, and there
was something about a visit to the ancient
city for a change. The successes in that part
of the world are good to hear of, and a re-
minder that sticking to a contract is the
only way to get finished. Whether Brother
Abdul is going to get relief through Aus-
tralia refusing support to its own old Bill-
JIM is a matter to be decided before the
annual sacrifice of the Australian turkey.
Though Abdul wouldn’t believe it, there
seem to be quite a large number of citizens
prepared to sacrifice Bill as readily as the
poultry.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
Ex-P.M.G. Agar Wynne’s pot very nearly
boiled over at the Yic. State elections. After
living for a time in retirement, he had
announced himself as a candidate for the
St. Kilda seat vacated by printer Robert
McCutcheon. and his pals thereupon insisted
on treating him as a sort of saviour of his
country. However, another local Liberal,
John Macfarlan, also decided to have a grab
at the laurels and the £4OO a year; and
there was the Labor nominee as well. On
the first count Macfarlan was only 27 votes
behind Wynne, with Laborite McGowan 901
further back. In the final, however, Wynne
won with a margin of 290 Labor prefer-
ences, and at the moment of writing is
waiting to hear from Bowser.
There is a special German lie for every
special need—one for every country, includ-
ing Australia. For instance, the Berlin
press fills the locals with stories of the
wretchedness and starvation prevailing in
English towns, which must soon set the
turbulent population fighting for Peace at
any Price. But in Italy the doctrine of the
Huns is that “Britain is revelling in luxury
and profits while allowing the poor cats-
pawed nations to freeze, starve and die.”
The same yarn was told in Russia, with
colored supplementary references to secret
treaties and ancient enmities. And all the
while the British Government deceives itself
with the old theory that Lies -don’t count
against the Truth, which it is piously alleged
is mighty and must prevail.
As was expected, the Farmers’ Union
shook things up considerably at the Vic. State
elections. Ten candidates were announced.
Six opposed legislators who ln#d cast a vote
for Peacock last July against the revolushing
Economy Party; and four of the Peacockites
went down. These were Pennington (Kara
Kara), four votes behind J. J. Hall, an
official of the Union, with a recount coming;
Achilles Gray (Korong). beaten by Ivo
Weaver, of Catumnal; John Gray (Swan
Hill) by Peter Stewart; and Railways Min-
ister Hugh McKenzie by John Allan.
Achilles Gray, in the final issue, turned on
his heel and stood as an Independent Nation-
alist, but the fact gave him no help.
A fifth V.F.U. man, David Gibson, of Cressy,
looks a certainty for Grenville, the seat
voluntarily vacated for good by ex-Laborite
John Chatham. In two other electorates
the V.F.IJ. very nearly did the trick. Lemuel
Griffiths was only six votes on the wrong
side of Nationalist McLennan at Barwon,
Mossback Farrer losing his seat; and
Reseigh, hailing from Lands Minister
Hutchinson’s own outback region, polled
within 193 votes of that tired old man for
Borung.
“The Real Mackay”: Hughes didn’t over-
look much when drawing up his list of
exemptions from compulsory service, but he
might have been still more thorough and
made his position still more secure by
exempting unmarried eligibles whose sisters
are or have been V.A.D.’s. or whose best
girls have sold at least 100 “buttons.”
Sydney Worker simply refuses to believe
that a German-made peace could be perilous
to Australia, and leaves such craven fears to
people who cannot “indulge in a little plain
thinking.” For the encouragement of the
nation’s robust manhood it points out that,
Australia being heavily mortgaged, “the
money-lenders of England will see to it that
their security is not interfered with in any
way.” The Bulletin has been awaiting
this for a long time. Trust Cohen and the
p.n. to the bitter end !
Died at Melbourne on November 14,
Edward Oswin Robinson, who came to Aus-'
tralia in 1873 and settled in the Northern
Territory, where he employed himself in
pearl-fishing, mining and buffalo-hunting.
In 1893, after exploring Melville Island, he
started hunting there with Cooper and
Glynn. _ After pacifying the natives he
entered _ into legal possession of the island,
which is 30 miles north of Darwin and
contains about 1.536.000 acres, and he lived
the rest of his days on his herd of from
15,000 to 20,000 buffaloes. The Vestey Bro-
thers took over his rights about two years
ago.
F rom an old colleague of Lane’s :
To us who knew William Lane intimately it is in
no way surprising that, while some of the so-called
Socialistic bodies in Australia, and especially in
Queensland, are doing their best to discourage recruit-
ing and treat Conscription as an invention of the
Devil, the little handful who are still carrying on
Lane’s settlement in Paraguay should be giving all
their available manhood to help down the Kaiser.
Lane was British to the core, and ever cherished the
dream that on the basis of New Australia there, might
be built up in Paraguay a British settlement so
strong as to make that distant republic, in fact if
not in name, an outpost of the Empire. It was a
wild enough dream, but there was a stage in the
history of the New Australia experiment when it
seemed by no means impossible of realisation. Lane,
the foremost in Australian labor journalism and the
chief inspirer of militant labor organisation in
Queensland, was, in many respects, as far removed
in thought from the men who pose as leaders of
Socialistic thought in Australia to-day, and have done
their damnedest to make the movement stink in the
nostrils of democracy, as Heaven is from Hell. He is
credited with having bfeen one of the chief movers in
the establishment of universal military training in
Maoriland, and M.L. papers said that by his death
their army lost one of its best and strongest friends.
And in these matters, however much his views regard-
ing communism may have changed, Lane was still
essentially the man he was when the “tall, straight
western bushmen” followed his standard to the land of
the jaguar. Lane’s second boy Donald (his eldest
son died in Paraguay) was killed on Gallipoli while
trying to rescue a wounded comrade, and the only
surviving son is now in Palestine.
On November 8, 1536, the first census of
Port Phillip was completed—lB6 males. 3S
females.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Criterion .... “The Rainbow”
Her Majesty’s “Mr. Manhattan”
The Playhouse “Quinneys”
St. James’s Hall (21th) . “The Real Miss Pinkerton”
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “You’re in Love”
Royal “A Pair of Silk Stockings”
King’s “Julius Caesar”
Princess’s “The Woman Thou Gavest Me”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia ..., Moving Pictures
There comes to every family a time when
some inquisitive member asks: “Where are
my children?” or “Where is my father?”
Cynthia Sumner, a girl of 17, asked
the latter question; and, as usual, mother
knew. Father was in New York —had been
there ever since mother had got a legal
separation from him, with the custody of
Cynthia, the Rainbow. So Cynthia insisted
on seeing her missing father. Mother knew,
of course, that father was living an awful
life: he played auction bridge for high
stakes; he kept an apparently profitable
racing stable; he breakfasted at 11 a.m.;
and then —his friends! However, Cynthia
was an insistent rainbow, and the flapper
arrived at her father’s
flat at just the most
inconvenient moment.
She approved of
father, and he tried to
shake off his friends
and his past. But
both refused to de-
part ; so father reck-
lessly want yachting
around the world, and
mother kept Cynthia
in Europe. Then
everybody met at
Mentone, and every-
thing was explained;
it had all been a mis-
take—father had been
quite nice and noble
all through, and
mother and father had
always loved each
other. If it had not
been for the irritating
habit each had of
turning away when
the other stretched out
forgiving arms, all
would have been sun-
shine in the first act. Happily at
Mentone Cynthia managed to make father
and mother face each other at the right
moment. And now all is happiness.
The moral of this sobbing play, “The Rain-
bow,” produced at Sydney Criterion on
Saturday, is “Always keep a little rainbow
in the home.” Incidentally, the producer,
E. W. Morrison, misses the chance of his
life after his stage thunderstorm. Nowadays
there is no novelty in thunderstorms in Syd-
ney, but a signboard borrowed from Cole’s
Book Arcade and introduced at the right
moment would be grateful and comforting.
In this talky and deliberately pathetic
comedy, where sobs are manufactured whole-
sale, Charles Waldron at last has a part
that fits him perfectly. He is such a
pathetic, gentlemanly figure; his adoration
of his child seems so genuine; and he bears
his sorrows Yvith that gentle irony so provo-
cative of tears. The innocence and girlish
charm and insouciant youth of Kathlene
Macdonell are equally amazing; this actress,
looking 17, and with the tears in even her
laughter, is almost too good to be true. She
slips like a ray of sunshine through a sloppy
play. Kenneth Brampton is a pleasantly
humorous villain, J. B. Atholwood a soulful
butler, Roy Redgrave a genial lawyer,
Arthur Cornell a quaint consul, Eily Malyon
a naughty lady with a nice heart (and a
figure and manner that utterly fail to hint
a suspicion of wickedness), Emma Temple a
motherly aunt, and Gertrude Boswell a for-
giving wife. In fact, everybody is so clov-
ingly nice that if one could only look behind
the scenes one would be sure to find the
business manager and the call-boy in the
wings weeping copiously in each other’s
arms all through the acts, and impulsively
raising each other’s salary at every sniff
from the audience.
** * *
Only a few more weeks are left for Syd-
ney to see “Seven Days’ Leave” at the Grand
Opera House.
V V v «Jc
The last nights are commenced of Gregan
MacMahon’s brilliant and satisfying charac-
ter study of Quinney, the honest art-dealer,
at Sydney Playhouse.
Owing to the glut in the musical-play
market, the breezy “Mr. Manhattan” has to
“The Rainbow,” at
Sydney Criterion.
Roy Redgrave as
Lawyer Ned Fellows.
make way for "The Red Widow” at Kvri*
Majesty’s on December 1. bydne >’
“The Waybacks” will .shift from «.
Palace (Sydney) after Friday night
ing the past three weeks the show'
provided a feast of intellect and a fl ow 0
soul and all that sort of thing, but itV
cheered up thousands of mere people \i
it has cheered up Philip Lytton mightily .
On Saturday night at the Hipnodrnm,,
(Sydney) William Anderson wi/E?,!
last time, offer patrons, for a trifling con
sideration, the Chance of a Lifetime.
sj; :|c
“The Prince of Monte Carlo” is in his last
nights at Sydney Tivoli. Except for the
fading away of this revue of Marry R ox
bury’s, the bill is much the s£me as last
week’s. “The Beauty Shop,” with Vera
Pearce doing the cooking with hot towels and
Marie King Scott speaking the twangy Ameri-
can language, still runs without the help of
man ; but Vera is now preparing to float awav
and be principal boy in the J.C.W. panto
The brightly-labelled “Drowned, but Not
Dead,” with a two-revolver homicidal end-
ing borrowed from “Hamlet,” will strew the
stage with the corpses of actors and author
until further notice. Reynolds and White
decorate the top of the vaudeville list, and
the youthful chaxm of Jean Keith and Doris
Thornton help the show along.
5jC s*«
“Sold” is the special throb at Sydney
Crystal Palace, June Elvidge being the vic-
tim of the marriage market. In “The Lifted
Veil” at Hoyt’s, Ethel Barrymore teaches
that to bo comfortable you must be con-
scienceless. Having been a woman who did,
she is now tormented with the desire to teli
and so silence her wedding bells. “For
France” is a stirring war picture at the
Lyceum; and the Strand continues its les-
sons in the management of Princes and
Kingdoms a Rasputin. Nance O’Neil
weighs the scales for and against mother-
hood at the Alhambra; and Alma Hanlon
is the Girl in the ‘H3reat Bradley Mystery”
—a thriller brimming over with intrigue, on
view at Hoyt’s and the Australian Picture
Palace; and at the Empress and Piccadilly
Theda Bara repents her ways and proves
the charming heroine in “Jess.”
V ¥ v
On Sunday evening, at the Sydney Royal,
the first two Goldwyn productions were
screened —“Polly of the Circus,” in which
Mae Marsh starred, and “Baby Mine,” with
fascinating Madge Kennedy as the baby-
hiring wife. Both are very fine samples of
motion-picture production—charming results
on which the Goldwyns are to be congratu-
lated.
*❖ ❖ ❖
When Molly Thornhill divorces her
Samuel he takes rapidly to whisky and be-
comes a dreadful Headache. This upsets
Molly considerably, so when she learns that
he is drinking heavily at Lady Gower’s
house-party she drops in casually. The
visit visibly strains Lady Gower’s hospi-
tality, but she manages to bunk Molly in
a neat little bedroom previously occupied by
Major Bagnal, who is an old flame of
Molly’s girlhood and still liable to blaze.
Naturally, then, the temperature rises when
this incendiary officah returns unexpectedly
to his room and beholds Molly in a provoca-
tive neglige. He makes hot love to the trim
divorcee and is being steadfastly repulsed
when a noise is heard and a burglar is
wrenched from a cupboard. The miscreant
happens to be Samuel, who had early hidden
himself for the purpose of having a few
words with his former lady. But he is
unrecognised during the brief struggle with
Bagnal, and is dumped, bound and gagged,
into the bathroom,
subsequently escap-
ing while Bagnal
is trying to relieve
the situation for
his fiancee, who
has butted in at a
compromising
moment, and is
staring suspiciously
on the scene. Sam-
uel is naturally the
only independent
witness to Molly’s
propriety in her
midnight adven-
ture, but he pre-
serves his silence
through all the
surcharged atmo-
sphere of scandal
and tears which
makes everybody
peevish next morn-
ing. Later on.
when he is assured
of Molly’s revived
affection, he straightens things out like a
perfect gentleman, and a risque affaire ends
with the blessing of all parties.
* * * •
This is “A Pair of Silk Stockings,” staged
in Adelaide in September and repeated at
“The Rainbow,” at
Sydney Criterion.
J. R. Atholwood as
Rennet,'the butler.


boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1
%
Nc
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Asrents. 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney J 1
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SnrifiTV I TUITFn Head Office: Corner Pitt
OUUtI I LlMl 1 LV, & King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY
100 PER CENT. PASSES 100 PER CENT. PASSES 100 PER CENT. PASSES.
And each Pupil secured Immediate Appointment at Lucrative Salary.
THAT IS THE MARCONI SCHOOL RECORD AT LAST EXAMINATION.
Become a pupil at once and you should be efficient in five months.
Tuition by Specialists on the Standard Marconi Apparatus.
The Code, Theory and Practice.—The Code, Theory and Practice Taught.
If you decide to Learn —Receive Tuition from the Recognised Experts at
THE MARCONI BCHOOL OF WIRELESS DEPT., 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Then you will have Priority of Appointment to the Australasian Mercantile Marine.
PEAPES&C9I™
An “All-Australian” Hat.
(
r
A /
V A X
L,
In material and in make, in style and in
quality, a hat typical, of the best Australian
standards, and superior to any imported hat
that can be quoted at a similar price to-day.
It is a distinctive shape in smooth Fur Felt,
medium crown, with adjustable brim 2-J
inches wide, unbound edge, Black band.
Colors: Light Grey, Fawn, Steel, Cement
Grey. The price is 12/6, and we pay the
postage. The value is unique in comparison
with present-day quotations.
New Summer Catalogue, just published, shows
the latest productions in Men’s Wear.
Write to Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Royal on Saturday. It is a slick
comedy developing from fantastic premises
to a bedroomy breathlessness and then fad-
ing away. On that account Marie Tempest
in the part of Molly is not able to sustain
the piquancy of the character to the final
curtain; but she practises an art that is
singularly free from the mannerisms that
marred her previous work. Of all the rbles
she has undertaken in Melbourne her Molly
earns most marks for delicate discretion.
Grahame Browne is an assortment of affa-
bilities and* idiocies as the graceful con-
noisseur of whisky. He talks a sort of patois
of belltoppered banalities, and absorbs his
poison with a finish that makes his drunken-
ness seem royal. Ethel Morrison, as Lady
Gower, discloses all the resources of a stiff
Anglican training, but chatters like a sen-
tentious duchess when her spite is in play.
Her hubby (Leslie Victor) is a fatuous
neuter, and brevity is the soul of It through-
out the comedy. Frank Harvey is rather
mannered in his expression of the Majah’s
feelings. Gwen Burroughs (Irene Maitland)
and Eileen Maitland (Pamela Bristowe)
turn two porcelain figures into cheap earthen-
ware. The setting, however, is smart, and
the frocks are the latest lyrics of Fashion.
* s;s *
Melbourne Princess’s is now trembling to
the tread of the heavily-timbered profligate
whose sinfulness makes trouble in “The
Woman Thou Gavest Me.” This awful
object rejoices in the name of Lord Raa and
flutters about in frockcoat and silk hat seek-
ing what fortunes he can devour. During
his ornate existence he dashes cash around
with a favored concubine, Alma Leir, while
leaving his young wife and her cheild to
starve. Thereupon Lady Raa’s noble sup-
porter, Martin Conrad, becomes violent and
horsewhips the roue on the slack of the pants
while Raa’s tart squirts murder from a pistol.
It is a great melee, threatening a dire finish
for the breathless hero, but with consum-
mate strategy he heaves the villain into
Alma’s barrage and sees him massacred with
great enthusiasm. Those are the main inci-
dents in a narrative which wanders from
Ireland to the South Pole. The yarn is of
the crudest possible description, but its
various addresses during its hurried travels
give it a fraudulent air of superiority. The
play’s headquarters are the Dower House,
Ireland, and here the heroine’s papa
(Bert Frawley) roars blistering threats
under a Baden Powell hat. Nellie Bramley
furnishes his daughter with an occasional
smile —full of teeth —and Guy Hastings wal-
lops the wicked and succors the weak with
a voice and action resplendent with ceremony.
Lord Raa is a dull dog in the hands of Fred
Francis, while his lady-love, Alma (Muriel
Dale), doesn’t look it. The profession of
adventuress requires personality and passion,
and Alma exhibits neither of them in quan-
tity. Remains only to mention John
Cosgrove, who plays Father Dan Donovan
with a handsome waistband.
** * *
The boom-time of “You’re in Love” at
Melbourne Majesty’s continues, and the job
of reaching for the War Loan certif. under
Maud Fane’s toes is turning fat citizens into
chamois, and causing young knuts to rise in
the world. The treasure-hunt has already
been responsible for a rush on the front
stalls; but if Maudie were the prize to be
found in her slipper one night, the manage-
ment would have to read the Riot Act and
shout for the police.
❖* * *
The revival of “Much Ado” at Melbourne
King’s is less satisfying in minor details than
the previous production. Fred Ivehoe now’
struggles with the role of Don Pedro, which
the courtly and scholarly Kay Souper found
an easy matter. Harcourt Hare, who replaces
J. H. Nunn in the part of Don John, is stiff
and callow, whereas the other fellow gave some
melodramatic force to the character. Like-
wise Miss Anderson is not an improvement
on Miss Landau, the earlier Ursula. The
newcomer sounds like the victim of a Pro-
fessor of E-10-cution. But Miss Rosslyn
Vane is a better Hero, while lan Maclaren
and Miss Sutcliffe remain their old import-
ant selves. Next Saturday a new Julius
Caesar will appear, but the same Marc
Antony will orate over the remains.
** * *
At Melbourne Tivoli Ada Reeve is warb-
ling “Daddy,” and the way the multitude
swallows the old dirge shows the force of
her personality. A good deal of her pro-
gramme was changed on Saturday, and it
went from grave to giddy with the same old
effortless change of voice and feeling. All
the other people are as before, though
Kennedy Allen seems to have more fog in
his diction that he had last week. Probably
the job of paraphrasing “Taffy was a Welsh-
man” is causing the mist in his vocabulary.
** * *
Emily Stevens is condemned to five acts of
tragedy in “Destiny, or the Soul of a
Woman,” at Hoyt’s Melbourne house this
week. Emily is a member of an ancient
profession, and floats in an atmosphere of
champagne and oysters until Fate arrives in
the cloak of her long-lost son and sets her
thinking of rolled oats and reform. Par-
ticular emphasis is laid on the meeting by
the fact that sonny is a monk and encounters
his muvver while employed inspecting various
sins during a moral crusade. Hoyt’s other
feature, “Think It Over,” can be well recom-
mended as a relief to the foregoing sermon.
It. is a comedy-drama compounded of sun-
shine and innocence and having a smile in
every scene.
** * *
Bessie Love is under the searchlight at
Melbourne Majestic this week. She is the
human phenomenon of an Irish extrava-
ganza called “Wee Lady Betty,” and per-
forms marvels of duplicity to outwit a
wicked landlord and heap contumely on his
haughty mamma. There is a bogus ghost
in the story who becomes Bessie’s ally and
inflicts further discomposure on the hated
swells. Ethel Clayton looms largely in the
other thriller, “The World Beneath,” which
features the avarice of a matrimonial siren.
** * *
“Very Good Eddie,” at Adelaide Royal, is
just the old idea of the bullied husband and
the bullied wife who get together and com-
pare their experiences. It is as old as “The
Quiet Family,” and as recent as “Fair and
Warmer”; the difference here is that the two
are quite satisfied with their own partners,
and come together only by accident. Barry
Lupino, with the Chaplin method, carries
the main burden of the play, but is well
helped by Fayette Perry, Higginson and Miss
Tucker, while John Beck gives a picture of
an uproarious Yankee hotel-clerk which may
possibly be drawn from life. The Anderson
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Nieman and Kennedy, comedians.
co. at the Tivoli has been giving “The
World's Verdict,” which in this case is “Not
Guilty ; do it again.” It is a good co.; too
good for the plays that as a rule it has to
handle. The Majestic has a fair and all-
round variety show, strongest on the musical
side. Wondergraph produces pictures of big
timber in America, and West’s shows “Far
West” mining, and all the houses find the
V.R.C. finishes go as well as anything. The
coming of summer is guaranteed by the open-
ing of certain English Pierrots at the Ex-
hibition Gardens.
From an Adelaide critic:—
“Adelaide for culture”; so every November for
20 years past it has replied to the Melbourne Cup
with a “Federal” Art Exhibition. But the show now
open has not much distinction about it. Hey sen
does not hang anything, and a few Victorian pic-
tures (mostly by the late Walter Withers) have to
supply all the “Federal” element. Miss Cumbrae
Stewart has a brilliant back view of a girl in blue;
but this artist was bought for the State’s Art
Gallery last year, and has been passed over now.
The only purchases are a crayon of a blackfellow
by Frederick Britton and a splendid gum-tree by
Gustave Barnes, who has managed to avoid imitating
Heysen’s eucalypts. The Ashtons (James and Will),
Edward Davies and John White are all much as
usual. Giles is improving fast, and from less ex-
pected quarters come good landscape by Mrs. Torr
and brilliant and suggestive fairy-story illustrations
by Miss M. Richardson. The local talent falls down
heavily in the matter of drawing desirable faces.
This accomplishment is the first learned by young
artists in Europe or America, but the last to be
mastered in Adelaide. Heavy dull faces frown down
from the walls, evidently meant to be attractive,
yet all hard and either elderly or unwell. The one
really bright and attractive face is the work of a
Victorian, Miss Stewart.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Front”: The spruiker has got into his
right place at last. John Cain, whom Jika
Jika has just returned as its first Labor
member in the Vic. Assembly, used to be an
out-front patterer before he buzzed into the
North Cote municipal council, which was the
stepping-stone to Parliament.
Eric Maxon, just killed in France while
playing a lieutenant’s part, first appeared in
Australia as Laertes in H. B. Irving’s eccen-
tric production of “Hamlet.” About the
biggest thing he did here was the strenuous
name part in “Ben Hur” five years ago.
In addition to an Australian principal
“boy” (Vera Pearce) this year’s William-
son panto, will feature an Australian as
the “boy’s” sweetheart. She will be Pauline
Bindley, the pretty young Bendigo soprano,
who was on the concert platform with Paul
Dufault. Pauline is a daughter of Allan
Bindley, who helped to train the voice of
Amy Castles in the way it should go.
Minnie Everett is to be ballet-mistress for
the Firm’s “Dick Whittington” panto, this
year. It will be her tenth annual job.
“Up Stage”: Winifred La France, who
has arrived from the TJ.S.A. to be principal
“boy” for the Bert Bailey-Tait Christmas
panto., is an Australian product who looked
for a chance elsewhere. Of late years she
has been topping vaudeville bills with a
diving scena, called “The Siren of the
Deep,” which displays her Annette Iveller-
man contour. As her trunk contains the
necessary mechanism, it is probable that the
act will be included in the panto.
“Harrison O.” on the old problem whether
the worth-while Australian playwriter can
get a hearing:—•
“Ancient Prompter” demanded to know what Aus-
tralian plays had been produced locally. I furnished
a list of 16 (excluding “bush drama,” which, of
course, comprises the bulk of locally-written dramatic
stuff, but which he dismissed from the discussion at
an early stage as being beneath notice) put on by
commercial managements in Sydney and Melbourne.
And I did not attempt a complete catalogue. Eleven
of the pieces named had seen the footlights in the
last eight years, and the others were mentioned
merely to show that there is practically no sort of
theatrical job—pantomime, opera, drama and comedy
—at which the local writer has not been given a trial.
Apparently overwhelmed by this mass of evidence,
“Ancient Prompter” (B. 8/11/’l7) tries to bolster
up a hopeless case by remarking: “ ‘Harrison o.’
triumphantly mentions two pantomimes, an opera
and a dramatisation of an opera by the Williamsons,
while the record of the Taits and Fullers, it appears,
is one solitary pantomime between them!” The Taits
and Fullers have only recently blossomed forth as pur-
veyors of drama, so the gibe at their expense would
not pass for an argument outside a young men’s
debating society; but, in any case, merely to reply
that such-and-such a management has not staged
Australian plays does not disprove my contention
that Australian plaj-wrights do get a hearing. It
would be as reasonable to argue that Australian versi-
fiers have no chance of placing their wares because
the S. M. Herald does not feature a poets’ corner.
Again, “Ancient Prompter” professed to believe that
the Australian dramatist has no chance of having his
* work produced by a repertory organisation. I men-
tioned 12 Australian plays staged by the Melbourne
Rep. Theatre, and could supply a further list of
pieces handled by similar organisations in Sydney and
Adelaide. “Ancient Prompter’s” crushing reply is
that I have shown that Gregan McMahon “used to ’
stage Australian plays. This is merely fooling with
the question. McMahon has had great difficulty in
keeping going at all since the Hun broke loose, yet
four of the 12 plays I mentioned were war babies, one
having been born as recently as last year. McMahon
has not dropped the local drama. Despite war-time
difficulties, he is ready and eager to produce anything
worth while, but the worth-while offerings are few
and far between. Not more than three of the local
efforts he has given us were entitled to stage-room on
their merits; the others achieved production because
they weie Australian. The extreme badness of many
of the Australian plays seen on both the rep. and the
commercial stage suggests a willingness on the part
of those in control to stretch a point in favor of the
indigenous dramatist and trust to the show’s local
interest and the patriotism of the public to pull it
through. Incidentally, at time of writing three of
the four theatres devoted to drama in Melbourne and
one Sydney theatre are housing Australian produc-
tions.
“0.K.” on another branch of the subject:
Isn’t it time to brush aside the fiction that Aus-
tralian plays other than “bush dramas” have never
had a chance? The first play I saw in Australia, 30-
odd years ago, was one of George Darrell’s many local
productions, staged at the old Opera House and acted
by a co. that was mostly native-born. Although
Darrell’s greatest success was “The Sunny South,”
which ran on the lines of “The Squatter’s Daughter”
of later years, he scored also with melodramas of
town life. He produced one of them, “The New
Rush,” at Melbourne Bijou, by arrangement with
Brough and Boucicault, Robert Brough and others of
the admirable Bijou co. being in the cast. “The
Sunny South” had one of its many revivals at the
Royal under J.CJ.W. auspices, and at about that time
a new dramatisation of “His Natural Life” had a
show at the Royal, with Titheradge as Rufus Dawes.
There have been two or three versions of Marcus
Clarke’s story staged in my time. And how about
the many productions of “Robbery Under Arms,” first
staged by Alfred Dampier and now being revived at
the Princess’s by Anderson? Dampier staged a lot
of Australian-made plays. Time was when he filled
his treasury with a melodrama titled “Marvellous
Melbourne,” thick-coated with local color, which ran
for 10 or 12 weeks ago at the old Alexandra. There
never was a time when a local dramatist couldn’t get
a show for a play that promised to be a payable
proposition. Jo Smith had placed his “Miner’s
Right” with Meynell and Clarke before he persuaded
Anderson to stage one of his dramas. Then, as
regards musical pieces, we had “Lelamine,” a Mel-
bourne-made, comic opera that was staged by
Williamson for a week’s run at the Princess’s, and
which would have been bought by the Firm had it
been worth buying. And “The American Girl,” also
produced at the Princess’s, in which Bert Bailey made
his first Melbourne appearance, and which he did his
best to save from awful failure.
“Masetto” : Add these eight names to the
list of Hamlets in Australia given by “Glen
H.” (B. 8/11/’l7) : Louise Crawford,
Frank Cates, Geo. Darrell, Henry Edwards
(1S60), D. H. Harkins (1881), Morton
Tavares, George Titheradge (Melbourne
Royal, 1886) and Bill Leake, As far as
Melbourne is concerned 40 mummers have
played the part, and the Royal has housed
about half of them.
On September 4 Ethel Irving celebrated a
double event in London—her birthday and
the 100th performance of “The Three
Daughters of M. Dupont,” in which she
plays the leading role and draws crowds to
the Ambassador’s Theatre. Ethel is excep-
tional among leading actresses in one respect
—she has never changed her family name
for stage purposes. She is a daughter of a
fine old actor, Joseph Irving, who was a
bit resentful when a rising youngster, Brod-
ribb, began to come into prominence under
the assumed name of Henry Irving. But
they arrived at a friendly understanding
afterwards.
“Stargazer” : Alfred Dampier’s Hamlet in
the actor’s later years, when two or three
physical disabilities had almost got him
down, professionally speaking, was much
more interesting to people on the stage than
to that part of the audience out of the range
of Alfred’s sotto voce interpolations and
quaint asides. For instance, in the struggle
with Laertes in the grave scene: “Thou
pray’st not well. I prithee take thy fingers
from my throat. (Gently, boy, gently on
that infernal foot of mine!) For though I
am not splenetive and rash, yet have I some-
thing in me dangerous, which let thy wise-
ness fear. (Softly, softly. Easy with the
actor-manager.) Away thy hand! (Wow,
lumbago ! Dammit, hold me up.) .... Why,
I will fight with him upon this theme until
my eyelids will no longer wag. (Thank
God, that’s over!)” Old Ned Holloway as
the implacable villain, and Alfred Dampier
as the manly and virtuous hero, engaging in
a life-and-death struggle, while mutually
supporting each other and mutually re-
spectful of each other’s infirmities, afforded
a spectacle which was wildly comic, if you
did not like the old fellows well enough to
think it tragic.
(Continued on page 26.)
PRINCE CHARMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Still scorn me for Prince Charming all
The pretty girls I know.
Some day will dear Prince Charming call,
And off with him they’ll go.
He’ll have a helm of gold, they say,
A snowy feather he,
His smile will win their hearts away,
His eye will glow with ardent ray.
A hero debonair and gay
Will sweet Prince Charming be.
Prince Charming came to winsome Flo,
And he was tall and slim.
He bent and whispered—would she go
And face the world with him?
His hair was rich as ripened wheat,
And hazel were his eyes;
His folk in England had a “seat.”
She did not have him long entreat.
Prince Charming proved to be a cheat—
A barber in disguise!
Plump Kitty scorned my honest quest
To have Prince Charming call.
He came one day from out the West,
And he also was tall.
His hair was black as coal. No dearth
Of pushful arts had he.
He praised her curb* her native worth,
And carried her around the earth.
In fact they wanted him in Perth
For theft and forger-ee.
Prince Charming came to Annie too
(I’d courted her for years)—
How gallantly did Charming woo!
And now, alas! he’s hers.
He’d valeted a Yankee chap,
And rogues were all his kin.
Who’d give for “woman’s wit” a rap?
Prince Charming is a baited trap
That changes not by any hap,
Yet always takes her in!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


-r
.J
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of purity of a freshlv-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
vour own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlere3gh Street, SYDNEY
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, an ,
under the management of H°s
Usher, the Comforts of a Eerfec
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare fa\or-
ably with any Hotel in Englan <
America or the Continent. Ha
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“899”: “Brigade Padre” (B. 8/11/T7) is
correct in stating that Field Punishment No.
1 has been in use in the A.I.F. As a matter
of fact it was meted out to some men before
the Landing. I know —I was one of the
first batch crucified. One stormy night, nine
of us borrowed a boat from our transport,
which was at anchor in Mudros Bay, and set
out for the nearest village for a change of
scene. Shortly afterwards we w r ere missed,
and criss-crossing searchlights and picket
DEPENDS.
THE GIRL: “ I wonder how many men I shall
make unhappy when I marry?”
THE BRUTE : “ Don’t know. Bow many do
yon intend to marry?”
boats searched the bay, blit we hid under Big
Lizzie’s stern until the hunt was over. On
our return (brazenly, in full daylight) the
Colonel appeared to be distinctly annoyed
iind handed out. with various moral precepts,
10 days’ No. 1. We were duly fastened to
beams on the promenade deck, with arms
and legs extended X-wise. Two hours of
his a day was the allowance, and at the end
<#f the first dose we found it very difficult to
use, our limbs. But it was better than being
shot. And did it spoil us? Well, six of
the nine were in one of the very first boats
ashore at the Landing; two now hold com-
missions ; two have beeen decorated, and
one lies at rest on Gallipoli. Three of the
six are still fighting in France.
* » * •
“Beersheba Dan”: Billjims in Egypt and
thereabouts who have the bad luck to be
wounded or fall sick and be admitted into
hospital are treated like prisoners when
they are well enough to leave. On receiving
hospital discharge they are escorted to the
railway station by a hospital orderly and by
him handed over to an armed escort of the
Anzac Provost Corps for delivery to the
detail camp. I can’t imagine how this
humiliation is inflicted on unoffending con-
valescents. After you have managed three
years’ service without a “crime,” it gives
you a feeling of intense delight to be
marched along like a captured spy and to
know that some of your guards have been
in Egypt only six weeks or so and have never
heard a shot fired except on a rifle-range.
None of the boys object to the escort —
they’re glad of the company. But the arms
make them grit their teeth.
OFF.
FIRST CHAP : “And did you succeed in sav-
ing your friend from the cannibals?”
AFRICAN EXPLORER: “No, poor fellow! He
was scratched off the menu when we
arrived.”
“B.B.” : They make some great discoveries
in America. When Holman was in New
York his speech at a luncheon was tele-
graphed to the Ottaw r a papers. Part of it:
Germany has forfeited her right to possession of
Northern New Zealand, which will remain part of
the British Empire at the close of the war.... This
territory of Northern New Zealand having fallen into
our hands, we intend to keep it. But we did not
enter the war for that purpose. Germany has
forfeited her right to it.
Another bird about the same time explained
in Peabody’s Journal that there was a
fine opportunity for Yankee manufacturers
in Australia.
The natives use woollen goods both winter and
summer, as they do not raise cotton. However,
cotton goods are being gradually installed there,
though the natives still insist that woollen garments
are cooler than cotton. Manufacturers of cotton
goods should educate the people regarding the value
of cotton articles.
In return, we could educate them in the
manner of capturing the wild game of the
country with the faithful friend xff primitive
man, the nulla-nulla.
» * * * »
“The Emu” sees a lady off: —
The passing of old Queen Lilioukalani, ex-Queen
of Hawaii, removes a big figure from the Pacific.
Her reign was a stormy one, mostly on account of
her knack of wishing to remove the head of any
white man who offended her. Shortly before she
was removed from the throne, and just after coming
back from a trip to Washington, she had a heated
argument with Thurston (now owner of Honolulu
Advertiser), and threatened him with the execu-
tioner. As she would give no promise that she
would ever forgive, she had to be deposed, America
thus losing its one and only royal dependent. Inci-
dentally, it was on the occasion of the return from
Washington that the plaintive Hawaiian song “Aloha
oe” came into being. The music was written by
Berger, for over 40 years master of the Royal
Hawaiian Band, and the words by the Queen. The
steamer in which she arrived was late, not berthing
at the Alakea Dock until just on midnight. Liliou-
kalani stood on the gangplank and sang her royal
swan-song to the thousands of dusky citizens packed
in a solid mass below her. I have heard it
under many conditions, ranging from a concert on
the leper settlement of Molokai to the rumpity-tump-
hoorah of the modern theatre. No white can get
the full pathos out of it; but when it was sung that
night and the chorus voiced by the Hawaiians on
the wharf it was something to be remembered.
“0.P.” : The offensiveness of the aeroplane
in direct assaults on infantry is being
rapidly realised in Flanders. Lewis-gunning
from a low altitude is now a recognised
part of an airman’s duties, and Britain is
showing its interest in the new form of
strafe by building fast armored machines
with their weapons fitted to fire through
the floor, if required. These curses will, if
I’m any judge, eventually eliminate infan-
try warfare. They can do 150 miles an
hour and hurry along a trench system leav-
ing an awful wake of casualties, protected
by their speed and armor against adequate
reprisals. Moreover, it is no official secret
that the newest models possess improved
bomb sights, which fact the Hun lately
learnt by the increased number of bull’s-eyes
scored in Zeebrugge and other tender jplaces.
“Tito”: Paragraphists, writing to order,
claim that it is unfair to Russia to suggest
that the Huns borrowed weight for their
Italian drive from their Eastern Front. Yet
no other inference is possible. Cadorna
had 3,000,000 men at his disposal, and by
the New Year could call on
1.000,000 more. To suggest that
this host was shoved back by
Austria’s Alpine Army, rein-
forced by a “few” Austro-German
divisions which the demoralised
moujik couldn’t keep busy, is to
over-rate the enemy as well as
depreciate the valor of the
Italians. No, there is no room to
doubt that Ivan’s experiment in
democracy has released large
quantities of Hun troops for
fresh assaults nearer home. His
recent assertion that the Huns
hugging his lines have not been
materially reduced since the
Revolution is inspired by his dif-
fidence to admit that he has lost
his claws. Yet Petrograd and
Moscow papers are full of proof
that the claws are gone. A squad,
sent out reconnoitring in the
neighborhood of Yilna lately,
openly fraternised with a German
party on the same mission. Ivan
hailed Hans as a brother, and
celebrated the reunion with an
exchange of victuals. Those
incidents are common, and it would be well
if foolish optimists realised that Russia
in a military sense is beyond salvation. A
little more charity also—not to mention
sympathy—-towards Italy, while staggering
under the blow, might not be amiss.
Melbourne has been fairly swarming of
late .weeks with purifiers who want to abol-
ish beer according to their own plans. The,
Rev. R. B. Dickinson is one of these, and he
reckons that “the Government might at least
do all it can to get revenue otherwise than
from hotel licenses.” So it might, of course;
but this new voice in the wilderness happens
to be that of a canon of Old St. James’s
Cathedral, which is an edifice with a history
richly perfumed with the fragrance of beer-
store rents and whisky-finance. While these
things are thus, Canon Dickinson will hardly
make much headway as an agitator on behalf
of No Revenue from Derrink.
ALMOST THE SAME.
“So you never were in love?”
“No; but I’ve been engaged to lots of men
that were.”
Ambrose Pratt, who succeeded Ben Hoare
as chief leader-writer on the Age, will part
company with the Syme organ after helping
it through the Conscription campaign. p ratt
is throwing in his lot with Critehley Parker
of the Mining Standard. Lately the Stan-
dard has mixed bitter sectarianism with a
BLASE.
HEBE: “How is it tee don’t see your new
johnny in the stalls?”
ROSIE: “ He’s fed up on leg shows — he’s a
tram-conductor.”
tremendous admiration for W. M. Hughes,
but it is going to try to be more reasonable
in future. The paper will probably change
its name, and devote itself to the serious dis-
cussion of industrial and economic questions.
It is quite used to such changes. Originally
established by Edward Wilkinson Bathurst,
a Sydney mining speculator, it fell out of his
hands, and for a while didn’t know whom it
belonged to. But it was John Neyton, of
the old Christopher Newton firm, who in the
end found himself nursing the baby; and
eventually the infant got to Parker. Pratt
is a solicitor, who wrote his first yarn for
Sydney Telegraph in collaboration with
Frank Fox.
* * * #
The airman’s progress :—
The ’buses on which we did our elementary stuff
were Graham White and Morris Farman long horns
and short horns. They are big, slow-moving, and
easy to manipulate. Most of them are under-
powered, and it is sometimes difficult to get them
off the ground. It is funny to see them steeple-
chase over hedges and telegraph-wires, then some-
times land a bit too steeply and turn over on their
backs. About eight of them were put out
of action that way during a single week. No one
seems to get hurt much in them —on account of
their slow speed,. I expect.
In my time I put up a bit of a record by climb-
ing 8500ft. in a beginners’ machine. On the way
up, which took about an hour, I passed through
three layers of cloud, which varied in height from
300 to 700 feet. Each layer seemed to be a different
type. The first was a thick mass which slipped past
very quickly. Then about 2000ft. higher was a
series of waves which varied in color. The sun
effects are wonderful. On the dullest and rainiest
day one can go up a few thousand feet and get in
a new world, with the sun shining on a sea of snow.
Several of the pupils have lost their bearings when
exploring above the clouds and have eventually
landed as far as 40 miles away.
After finishing with the big ’buses we are put
on to Armstrong-Whitworth machines, which are quite
easy to fly. Work on these includes straight flying,
bomb-dropping, photography, aerial observations,
wireless signalling from the ground and cross-
country and height tests. Straight flying is simply
flying up wind in a straight course, which is recorded
on an instrument on the ground. Sounds easy, but
isn’t. Bomb-dropping is much the same. You fl.V
up wind and when a certain distance before the target
you release the bomb. I got two hits out of six
from 2000ft. Then there’s the photography. Cer-
tain points on a map are given and you have to find
and “take” them from the air. It is easy enough to
find them, but photographing them is rather tricky
—flying the machine with one hand and leaning
out looking for the pin-point to come in line with
the camera sights. Artillery observation is uninter-
esting stuff—watching the guns fire and observing
where they burst. The machine has a wireless
installation with which you send down corrections to
the battery. “Cross countries” are good —a Cana-
dian and I once had a great time knocking spots
off the Great Northern Express.
Last stage of all come your wings, and your first
courtesy call upon the Kaiser.
THE BUGLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upon a sea of foamy beer
Our boasts went sailing far;
And when the thirtieth drink was near
We’d won the blooming war.
’Tis on occasions such as this
The elbow strongly bends ;
And we can give a parlous time
To Kaisers and their friends.
’Twas night before we reached the camp ;
And, through its foggy throat,
We heard, in cadence loud and shrill,
The swelling bugle-note.
“Defaulters!” Robinson remarked;
Whereat we raised a shout
Of laughter, for, of course, we knew
That bugle was “Lights Cut.”
At least, that fact was plain to me,
Though Jones said: “That’s ‘First Post’!”
With which old Smith would not agree—
“ Last Post” he (hie) favored most.
We argued out the matter then
And there, to get it fixed,
Appealing to a sentry who
Declared that we were mixed.
He answered in a bothered way,
And in an anxious tone:
“You’d best get back to your parade,
Reveille’s just been blown!”
It seemed most strange ; and, yet, ’twas fact.
Our sergeant, with a shout,
Pronounced that we deserved some praise
For quickly turning out!
But, as we puffed our chests with pride
To wear the praise we’d got,
He put us on a damned fatigue
As we were on the spot!
OX SERVICE.
HAMER.


LADIES’
COURT
SHOES
42/- the pair
Your size sent on approval, on
receipt of remittance, which will
be refunded if the shoes are
returned as unsuitable for your
requirements.
When writing please state size
and give full address.
The illustration shows a neat, all-enamel Kid
Black Court Shoe, with Cuban heels, pump
soles, and black-and-white buckle.
Price 42/- pair.
Posted free to any address.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
HEAN
TONIC
®
wz
Are the RELIABLE HOME REMEDY lor
Headaches, Backache,
Insomnia, Anaemia,
Neuralgia, Brain Fag,
Lassitude, Breakdown,
and such-like ailments.
When you suffer from any of these neuras-
thenic conditions do not make the mistake of
taking drugs or stimulants.
What you need is something to purify and enrich the blood and nourish the nerves
For this purpose you cannot get anything better than
Mean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
Obtainable from reliable chemists and stores. Price: Large Size, containing V>
days’ supply, 35.; or six boxes for 17s. 3d. If not stocked in your locality send direct
to G. W. HEAN, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“Croson”: Melbourne’s grocers are squeal-
ing over the 0 o’clock-closing farce, and have
good reason to. They don’t object to early-
closing per se, but to the law’ that allows
specialising shops to keep open late and sell
certain groceries as sidelines. Thus the
ham-and-beef emporium, the dairy-produce
outfit, and the fish-and-chips joint may sell
groceries till all hours provided the bulk of
their stock in sight consists of their special
lines. They may have tons of groceries con-
cealed in the back premises, but so long as
these are not in sight they are still “ham an’
beef” or “fish ’n’ chips.” Their principal
patrons are hordes of women who leave every-
thing till the last moment and are always
“out” of something—ladies w-ho, having been
thus encouraged to be feckless, won’t heed
the call of the Last Trump till five minutes
after the Pearly Gates have slammed.
“Rio”: Military rifle cartridges contain
copper, tin, nickel, lead and antimony,
besides explosives, and cost to produce at the
present time about threepence each, or ss.
for 20: so that every time our 80,000 stay-
at-home rifle clubmen put in an afternoon at
their favorite sport it costs our thrift-urging
Government £20,000 for ammunition alone,
to say nothing of the many other expenses
in connection with ranges, administration,
etc. But Pearce evidently has money to
burn nowadays, for he lately bucked-up the
Rejected Volunteers’ Association with this:
“The Association could become actively iden-
tified with the reserves of the Defence forces
by forming a Rejected Volunteers’ Associa-
tion Rifle Club.” That is, our astonishing
Minister of Defence proposes to create a
reserve of fighters wiio have been officially
certified unfit to fight. Surely, because of its
cost to the country, rifle-shooting is about the
last thing an unfit man should be encouraged
to spend his spare time on these days.
LA TEST WAR NEWS.
FRIEND: “ What's the latest from the
Front?”
ACTOR : “Er —one cabbage, three rotten
eggs, and an empty beer-bottle.”
The habit of getting oneself shot and then
disremembering how the incident happened
is spreading in Melbourne. The other even-
ing a city publican hastily called a taxi and
got himself to the hospital, w’hich he pro-
mises to leave for the cemetery, with a bullet
in his head. He admitted that he had had a
disagreement with a friend and had stopped
the latter’s third shot, but he resolutely
declined to mention any names. The friend
has also censored himself remorselessly, so
the rest of the world is up against a blank
wall. Some day this casual shooting will
catch someone who really counts, and then
there will be a fuss.
EASY.
TEACHER: “If your father came home with
fifteen pounds and gave all but three to
your mother, what would she have?”
B OY: “A fur coat.”
“Jim 31.”-: The trustees of Melbourne
National Gallery have wakened up at last.
A few months ago they pur-
chased a splendid Norman
Lindsay water-color, together
with half a dozen fine etchings
by brother Lionel. Now they
have dumfounded local artists
by acquiring three pen-and-ink
originals of Norman’s illus-
trations of Gellert’s “Songs
of a Campaign.” Most likely
the credit is due to Gallery-
director “Barney” Hall, who
has a red-hot admiration for
Lindsay’s genius. But Mcln-
nes, Gruner. Shirlow and
pastellists Florence Rodway
and Cumbrae Stewart still
remain officially unrecognised.
* * *
“The Immature Male”: It
happened at a machine-gun
school at Zeitoun (’Gippo
Land). A newly arrived in-
structor, a little blue-eyed,
flaxen-haired, r o s y-cheeked
Tommy officer, albeit rather
doggy, y’ know’, had just taken
charge of a tough lot of Light-
horsemen. It was his first
experience of instructing these
Austwmlians, and he blew into
the mess after parade looking
rather flustered, and between
spots unburdened his griev-
ance to a Billjim officer. “Your
men are quaite—ah—extraor-
dinary fell’rs, y’ know,” he
said. “How’s that?” asked
the 8.0. “Well, no sooner
had Ai given the ordah
‘P’wade, dismiss!’ than they
said ‘Good-bai, deah one!’
and threw —ah —kisses at me !”
* * * *
The Melbourne honorarium still shows
practical sympathy with the “customs of the
trade” he has mostly been used to before he
scrambled on the bench. Lately an extensive
suburban pastrycook was brought to court
for using scales that had a partiality for
their owner to the extent of lioz. in every
21b. Their Worships fined him a whole
“Fisher flimsy”—about as much as he would
' ‘make” in an hour at any one of his shops.
“Boyd Cable”: Since I wrote about the
“Tweed and Armidale No. 2” in a war-
’plane squadron in France, another 'bus,
No. 13, has joined up. The N. S. Wales
subscribers who presented No. 13 need not
have qualms about the unlucky number,
because already she has figured in some
lively scraps and has come through O.K. She
was one of four machines which took on
seven Albatross scouts two or three days
ago—--all much faster than ours and purely
fighting machines, while ours are for photo.-
iug, reconnoitring, etc., and are only sup-
posed to scrap defensively. The
Hun fought much better and
more gamely than he usually
does on such terms (he rarely
shows fight with less than two
to one in his favor), and there
was some very close-quarter
work. The Tweed 13 drove at
one Hun, the observer pelting
with his machine-gun, keeping
at it until at 20-feet range the
Hun pilot was seen to collapse
in his seat and his machine
flopped over and fell out of con-
trol. Both the No. 2 and No.
13 were in anothfer scrap yester-
day, when six of ours fought
11 Huns, sinking four
(crashed) and driving one down
out of control (final fate
not known). No. 2 unfortu-
nately sustained a casualty to
her radiator, which forced her
pilot to land her at another
aerodrome. However, she is
otherwise O.K. and should be
repaired and in commission in
a day or so. Just before this
both No. 2 and No. 13 were in
another tangle, when six of
them were attacked by 22 Hun
fighting scouts, which were
almost immediately reinforced
by another nine or 10 fast
fighters. The six fought a
defensive action and success-
fully stood off the mob, sinking
one of them. A dozen of our
scout fighters then plunged into
the scrap, and they and the six
went for the 30-odd Huns, broke up their
formation and chased them off. Our lot didn’t
continue the chase, as they had another
urgent job on farther over the lines. They
carried this out and then all returned safely.
Since I’ve carefully refrained from any men-
tion of what squadron or unit I or the two
’buses are in I don’t think the Censor will
kick at my telling you they have been en-
gaged in the recent operations on the Ypres
Front, which have resulted in those nasty
jars to the Hun that the cables will have
been telling you about.
* * * *
“C.R.8.” : There is a furniture factory in
Punt-road, Windsor (Vic.), which is doing
something for returned soldiers, and where
discharged Billjims are being instructed by
skilled hands in the art of turning our beau-
tiful timbers into decorative suites. The
one small factory—known as the Leeder —has
built £llOO worth of furniture in three
months, and has sold the bulk of it to
returned warriors armed with grants from
the State War Council. At present a dozen
returned men are employed at union wages,
and they talk hopefully of the time when
they will have 400 mates.
“Peter”: Two ex-Bananaland
’roo shooters lately sent a stray
sniper to Allah with the help of
a bush trick. While out with
an advanced post near Romani
one day they saw a spurt of
sand in front of a party of Eng-
lish officers. The orderlies of
the party blazed away hurriedly
at a little hillock, and Abdul
leaped from his shelter and
started to do a Marathon. As
he seemed likely to get away
one Billjim dropped on his face
and took aim while the other
put his fingers in his mouth
and whistled piercingly. The
surprised sniper stopped exactly
as they expected him to do, and
that instant the prone rifleman's
bullet drilled him. “Bai Jove !”
said one of the officahs when
the trick w-as explained to him,
“I must go out to —er—Queens-
land when the war is over.
Great sport, what?”
“Red Tape,” on a momentous question :
N. S. Wales Public Service is taking a referendum
in the clerical division to decide whether the public
offices should open in summer from 9 to 5 or from
8.30 to 4.30. Four-thirty is the traditional knoek-
ing-off time, but last year, in an effort to deal a
fatal blow at the Huns, Premier Holman made us
all work an extra half-hour. Unfortunately, the
Huns are still going strong, so the idea now is to
tack the half-hour on to the starting-time instead
of to the finish-up. Thus far it looks as if “Yes”
will be carried, but it will have to be by a big
majority before the Government will consent to
commence Sydney’s business day a bit earlier. Still
the change isn’t impossible: these are parlous times,
and something’s got to be done to clip the screaming
Prussian eagle’s wings.
“Swaddy”: Pearce’s Defence Department
hasn’t lost its capacity for making a joke
just because the war isn’t going quite right.
This order, for instance, was issued the other
day :
It is to be clearly understood that all soldiers are
paid for seven days per week, and that as far as a
soldier is concerned Sunday is a working day the
same as other days. Home Service Troops, such as
District Guards, Concentration Camp Guards, those
connected with Home Defence at Forts, etc., Mili-
tary Police, Hospital Orderlies, Cooks, Batinen, etc.,
are required to do duties on Sundays in the same
manner as soldiers on active service, and therefore,
if they are granted week-end leave, this will count
part of their annual leave.
Thus, because he is on duty seven days a
week, because he is at work every day from
reveille to lights out, a man’s hard-earned
week-end leave is to be cut out of his annual
leave. If he takes 18 week-ends off in a year
(in a year, mind you) he is to get no annual
leave. But the cream of the joke comes to
the surface in a later paragraph:—
With regard to Home Service personnel employed
in offices for fixed hours on continuous duty, such as
Base Records, District Headquarters, Pay Offices,
etc., where such offices are closed at week-ends and
where such officials are not in camp, or required to
work during the week-end, such periods will not
count as part of the annual leave of the soldier con-
cerned.
So because he works from 9 a.m. to & p.m.
daily, because he sleeps at home every night,
because he week-ends from noon Saturday
to 9 a.m. Monday, and because he in addi-
tion gets all public holidays, the Victoria
Barracks aristocrat must have 21 days’ full*
pay leave annually.
Upon which the official comment is that,
“while the facts are right, the inference is
not, as it fails to differentiate between the
class of work performed in the two catego-
ries.” You might as well, the official mind
declares, compare the holidays of a domestic
GENERAL SHORTAGE.
“I say, Billy, your pants are a little bit”
“What? Like your”
“ Don't be rude!”
servant with those of a factory employee—
though which is the domestic servant and
which the factory employee this paper is
unhappily left uninformed. Certainly if
the Defence Department thinks that domes-
tic servants work seven days a week, it isn’t
as omniscient as The Bulletin had been,
led to believe.
POETRY AND PROSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The great hills rose, aloof, serene;
A red road wandered dreamily
To where there slept a still lagoon;
Beyond—a golden beach between—-
Beat pulsing leagues of purple sea
Beneath the mystic skies a-croon.
The hills were mere humps, bare of trees ; the road
unduly thick in dust; the still lagoon so still that—
well, its odor wandered down the breeze. And
nevermore in life (I trust) I’ll put up at that d—d
hotel. ■
And over dinner yesternight, Ruth, toying idly with
her spoon,
Mused, “Strange we found the place a bore! We
loved it ot> our honeymoon!”
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.
TO SYDNEY IN WET WEATHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You grey-faced hag! You bitter, weeping scold!
When you were young and pleasant, weeks ago,
And dreamed all day in sunshine, then I know
All men did love you well. Now, drab and old,
What convict dreams have sent you on this burst?
The sleeting rain beats down the blinding smoke
Until it looks like hair. You sob and choke;
Your seaward face, tear-stained, looks at its worst.
You wrap black clouds around your stupid head
Until the long-lost sun is quite forgot.
Brace up and stop this washerwoman’s rot!
Turn off the tears !. .. . Did you hear what I said f
Clear-eyed and radiant by the Harbor now
She smiles and chatters while she dips pink toes.
Most times she’s young, but when the wrong wind
blows
Her hair comes down and she’s a “fair old cow.”
N.S.W.
K.


[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]
THE SANCTITY OF HUMAN LIFE.
ANTI PERSON: “Don’t worry, don’t worry, my woman! You’ll be all right. Tell him that human life is sacred!”


SOMEBODY’S OUT OF STEP.
[DAVID LOW, BULLETIN Office, Collins-street, Melbourne.]


[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior,
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
A Letter of Interest to nil Pastoralists and Farmers throughout Australia.
Mr.T. I. Campbell, Gen. Sec. Farmers & Settlers’ Association, N.S.W., gives this
testimony to Clements Tonic
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. 1 S , e l ttlers ’ Association of N.S.W.
‘Tvnowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and experience, I do not hesitate
opinion of it, simply putting into words what I have so often spoken. ® - *
“I believe it to be a very fine nerve and blood tonic. I know that it has benefited me areatly \t • '
periods my duties are exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and I have always' foetid
your medicine of the greatest value to me, having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties "
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling
others to benefit by my personal experience. I am, Sirs, yours sincerely &
“T. I. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretarv.”
It is questionable whether there is any
man better or more widely known than the
secretary of this far-reaching Associa-
tion, whose members scattered far and
wide amongst the farming and pastoral
community number thousands. M l '-
Campbell’s testimony will be read wiJi
interest, because of its sincerity and its
lucid explanation of the value of Clements
Tonic and its 1 neficial effect upon lu s
health. There is no better medicine for
the man on the land. It is a mistake for
you to be without it. Keep it at home.
GET CLEMENTS TONIC TO-DAY AND GET WELL.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELAGMRINO
CIGARETTES
WHITSITT, M.L.A. ( Tas .), makes a
humorous remark.
Ages of High Court Judges: The great
Griffith 72, Barton 69 in January, Isaacs
62, Higgins 66, Duffy 65, Powers 64. and
Rich 54.
Edward Carlile, who passed out last week
at 72, was possibly the most useful public
servant Victoria ever had. Before his time
there was horrible confusion through incom-
petent drafting of bills, especially land bills.
In Carlile a perfect genius was found for the
work. He drafted about 3000 measures with
never a conspicuous fault, and earned many
times over the pension he got—about £9OO a
year. Even after his retirement in 1910 the
Government had to call him in as consulting
legislative physician, so to speak. He founded
the Civil Service Rowing Club in ’66. and
was leading member in Australia of the
Catholic Apostolic sect, known also as
Irvingites.
Another Sydney barrister, Lieut.-Col. Jeff.
McLaughlin, M.C.. son of solicitor John
McLaughlin, ex-M.L.A., has died of wounds
in France. One of the first to enlist when
war was declared, he was all through Gal-
lipoli and was one of the last officers to
leave the Peninsula on the evacuation.
Before being admitted to the Bar in 1913 he
was with Birt’s shipping firm in Sydney,
and he promised to have a brilliant career
as a commercial lawyer.
Archbishop Carr (R.C.) of Melbourne left
£4OO. Archbishop Dunne (R.C.) of Bris-
bane did a bit better with £lOO,OO0 —all
devised to his successor Duhig for religious
and educational work.
“HA’E ONE WE ME!"
“See an Australian on leave and 10 to 1 there’s a
Scottie with him. "—The letters of Billjim.
Tom Wilford, who joins the Maoriland
Ministry as Minister for Justice, is an
exuberant youth of 47, full of self-confidence,
kindliness and good stories. His ample pre-
sence has pervaded Windy Wellington for
about a quarter of a century, and for most
of that time he has sat in the House of Reps,
as member for the Hutt and pursued Costs
in the local courts. Tom’s greatest virtue
at one time was a sense of humor. In an
election riot in the long ago the alleged in-
decency of politicians in grafting their sup-
porters into Government billets was discussed
all over the Dominion. When Tom opened
his campaign the citizen with a scowl and
an awkward question had a front seat. “How
many people have you got billets for in the
Government workshops?” he angrily de-
manded at an appropriate moment. Tom
beamed on him like a benevolent Providence
and, embracing the whole audience, so to
speak, with a waving arm, shouted in reply
“Their number is legion !” The congregation
burst into prolonged applause. Tom had
stuck to the truth and the crowd stuck to
him.
The strangely uneventful life of Alfred
d« Lany closed in Melbourne last week, at
SB. in Melbourne as a young man
of 27, he went behind the counter of the
primitive establishment of Buckley and
Nunn, in early Bourke-street. There he
stayed for 55 years, whilst the
city was growing out of know-
ledge and the shop was expanding
in all directions. Some of the
women to whom de Lany showed
the next article when he was a
newchum were the great-grand-
mothers of the flappers he served
before he left the shop. At S 4
he was still a draper’s salesman.
He must have been a record
breaker. Seated on a cloud he
is now fingering his angel robe, wondering
how much a yard the material costs in the
piece.
“Joe,” the Wirths* popular clown, is ex-
changing his capacious spotted garments for
khaki. Joseph Bannister is his unprofes-
sional name, and he has followed his strenu-
ous calling for 23 years, 15 of them in Ger-
many. While in Berlin he tried to popular-
ise British methods of boxing, and asked
permission to run a stadium. He gave an
exhibition at Potsdam Palace, but Wilhelm,
after watching for a couple of rounds,
decided that there was not enough frightful-
ness in the game, and with a gesture of con-
tempt walked away. At the Anglo-American
Club, Berlin, Joe had a bout with Prince
Eitel and did some damage to the royal coun-
tenance. Next morning he received an
urgent official tip to get out of the country in
24 hours. He got. Now he reckons he’ll
return via Broadmeadows.
Died in Sydney, still well under 50,
“Willie” Firth, one of the keenest and most
notable men on the employers’ side in all
recent proceedings between N. S. Wales coal-
mine owners and miners. His interests were
in the Illawarra field ; he was secretary of
the Southern vend as well as of the Southern
employers’ federation. The son of a mission-
ary, he was born in the South Seas, but
came to Sydney as a youngster, and later on
played a dashing game of cricket for Waver-
ley in that club’s best days.
“He never realised danger. He would
take no cover, and I’m surprised he escaped
the bullets as long as he did” —a fellow-
officer’s epitaph upon Colonel W. W. Hearne,
D. 5.0., who left South Melbourne for Gal-
lipoli with the 2nd Field Ambulance at the
very beginning of things, and is just reported
killed in action in France. He was wearing
the South African (Queen’s) Medal with
two clasps when he entered the A.I.F. with
a major’s crown on his shoulder-straps. As
lieutenant-colonel, this earnest, self-sacrific-
ing patriot gave the Third Field Ambulance
a turn, and was soon A.D.M.S. and later
full colonel in the sth Division. To him The
Bulletin was indebted for some of the
earlier descriptions of the ambulance, clear-
ing-station and field-hospital services in
France —written, as he put it (he was
always thinking of somebody else), “for the
comfort of brave mothers in Australia.” He
was born at Geelong in 1871, his father
being chemist W. G. Hearne, now of Sydney,
and his school was the Geelong College. He
was twice at least in despatches, and held
the Italian order of Chevalier of St. Maurice
and St. Lazarus. A brother, Dr. Ken
Hearne, has been battling with the medical
difficulties of the Mesopotamia campaign for
the past 18 months.
Two sons of F. B. Guthrie, head of the
science branch of N. S. Wales Department
of Agriculture, enlisted when war broke out
and left with the first contingent. They both
got through Gallipoli with credit. But the
younger, Malcolm, died in England last
November, and now the elder, Fred, lieut. of
Light Horse, has been killed in Palestine.
Captain 11. W. Creswell, son of the
Admiral, was killed in Palestine on Novem-
ber 6. He was in the Camel Corps at the
end, but had previously served with Infantry,
gaining there the Servian Order of the
White Eagle. Like his brothers, Lieut.
Edmund, returned wounded from France,
and Sub-Lieutenant Colin F., of the sub-
marine service, killed last August, he was
an old Melbourne Grammar boy.
Dead in Adelaide, at 69, W. R. Pybus, city
organist for years, and a great battler for
the Philharmonic and other old musical
societies.
Killed in France,
Dr. G. M. Hunt,
of the Ist Bat-
talion. Born in
1889, he was third
son of the late J.
F. Hunt, of the
A.J.S. Bank at
Mandurama, and
after Sydney High
School and Univer-
sity had done their
best for him he
settled down to
practise at Can-
delo. Then the
gong clanged, and
he filled in turn
berths as an
A.M.C. captain on
No. 1 hos-
pital ship,
with the
Ist Field
Ambulance an d
the Ist Battalion.
Then came the
Military Cross and
his majority, and
four months later
his death. f
BRIGADIER-
GENERAL
WILLIAMS.
State Com-
mandant (Vic.).
The tailors seem to have a monopoly of
this business. Price, who was cast out of
the N. S. M ales Parliament and then trium-
phantly reseated by his constituents, is a
tailor. So was “Mint Sauce” Jones, the
hero of the historical case in Victoria.
Lieut.-Col. Horn, of Toowoomba (o i
who lately arrived home after more than ' ! '
years’ service with the A.M.C. in Fcnmf ?
France, was the surgeon who a W P |
after Bapaume was captured b/thVT' 3
trahans, established a main dressing“tart™
among the smoking ruins of th« ♦ ou
During tl. c retreat of the GertnaS toS
LIEUTENANT-COLONEL HORN, of
Toowoomba ( Q .).
Hindenburg line his unit took part in the
capture of a dozen villages. And still Colonel
Horn feels that the greatest hardships come
not from the “O’Boos,” the “Whiz-bangs,”
bayonets or machine-gun bullets, but from
Jack Frost and his pals Mud and Slush,
whom he had heaps of opportunities of
observing at first hand on the Somme. A
wife and three children gave the doctor a
welcome home.
On the London staff of the National Bank
of Australasia there was a girl named Daisy
Waddell who went off to France as an ambu-
lance-driver, and by a piece of daring won
the French -War Cross. Then bad luck came
her way, and she lost what is referred to by
the bank chairman as a limb, and therefore
is probably a leg. The co. has sent her a
cheque for £5O. Lieut. Moon, who won the
V.C., was a clerk in the same bank in Vic-
toria. He got a cheque also —for £lOO.
Gone where the good Jews go, Woolf
Lazarus, the oldest Hebrew in Adelaide. As
a young Pole of 15 he left home in 1842 to
avoid being drafted into the Russian army.
He was at one time a tailor in Sydney and
in Yass (N.S.W.), and saw life at Lambing
Flat. He had a favorite story of encounter-
ing the bushrangers Davis anil Gardiner, the
former trying to shoot him, but Gardiner
knocking up the revolver just at the right
moment. For the last 40 years he has
sharpened his scissors in Adelaide.
Dispensed his last prescription, G. F. C.
Cunynghame, of Auburn (N.S.W.), who for
more than 30 years physicked the guests at
Parramatta Gaol, and later at Darlinghurst
Gaol, where he was dispenser for 15 years.
Cunynghame’s father, Robert Drybrough
Cunynghame, arrived at Port Jackson in
1820 and received the last land grant on
Sydney Cove on condition that he estab-
lished a patent slip. He fulfilled the agree-
ment and pioneered the shipbuilding indus-
try. The son was born in a house adjoining
Campbell’s Wharf and gardens at Dawes
Point, and his first job was at the Sydney
Hospital; later he was appointed Govern-
ment dispenser for the Parramatta district.
His father was thrice married, his first ven-
ture being with Marv Whalan, whose father
was orderly to Lachlan Macquarie.
Fitzalan Boyd, a picturesque figure
around Melbourne for many years—he is the
mainspring of Boyd’s Express—is a descend-
ant of the last Earl of Kilmarnock, who
about the middle of the 18th century suffered
a tragic fate on Tower Hill for backing the
wrong political crowd. Fitzalan, by the
way, twice did the same thing in Central
Cumberland (Sydney) about 30 years ago;
but he only lost whatever it cost him i n
election exes.
THE TROUBADOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Clarence Brown has been killed in France. He
was one of an aviary of eight musical birds who
shared a tent at the gunners’ training-camp three
years ago. These lads bought second-hand and took
to the Front, by many a subterfuge, a busker’s har-
monium. ‘The old org.’ went wherever a gun-
wheel could go. Once some of the birds even asked
permission to take it into clink with them. But
Clarrie Brown won’t sit in front of it any more.
That troubadour has gone beyond reveille or re-
turn.”—Bulletin, l/11/’l7.
It has tramped the road wherever guns could go,
It has sung on dusty hills and muddy plains,
It has felt the pulse of war and known its throe,
It has played us through the toil of two cam-
paigns
( Oh, its soul has gone, while yet the shell re-
mains !)
It has sneaked aboard consigned to “Q.M.5.,”
It has landed labelled “Kits” and “Bully-beef,”
It has heard the roar of camps and shared the stress
Of battle’s savage joy and after-grief;
It has poured the wine of gladness, thrust the knife
When sorrow marched in mass or echelon,
But its glory faded from us with his life
(Play on!)
Who has gone where other troubadours have gone.
Three years ago, at old Broadmeadows camp
(There were eight of us who clubbed and humped
it down),
It stirred the feet of soldiers on the tramp
And the souls of dapper ladies out of town.
(Play gently for the soul of Gunner Brown!)
It stowed aboard us when we steamed away—
There are or.e or two who know the way it went—•
It filled with cheer the sweating tropic day
And the spangled tropic night with all content;
It sang of life and death the mysteries
Of things that all men seek and no men know
While his facile fingers fluttered up the keys
(Play low)
Who has gone where other troubadours must go 1
In winter in the huts upon the Plain,
By the muffled light when “Rounds” had paused
and passed,
It mingled with the drone of dripping rain
And the voices of the future darkly-glassed.
(Oh, the tunes that caught our hearts and held
them fast!)
And the little busking-organ, while he played,
Would weave the web that death shall not destroy
Of love, and grief, and valor unafraid,
Of joy that pained, and pain that ran to joy,
Of the forest, and the field before the door,
Of thought that plucks the strings of lost delight,
And the swish of silken skirts upon the floor !. ...
Play light
For the troubadour who sleeps alone to-night!
Of the boys who tried to take it into clink
In the matter of a week-end overstayed,
Some bard may write the tale in purple ink
When the earth above our heads is lightly laid.
(Oh, the answer that the crimson Major made!)
And here, among the fields of sickened France,
When the quarry harks away, the bugle bays,
And the line leaps out to link the long advance,
There’ll be blankets left behind before it stays.
By the melodies his floating fingers wove
That our tired brains might listen and forget,
By the memory of him we knew and love—-
Play yet
For the troubadour beneath the grasses set!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


-V
r •
-m ~ v
as
&■
fUSS
*tm
zmi
' i'liiii 1 '
S@3i
itt
ro
, '| ,‘*f .u±r,
,1 .': ii, v /
* -. jiin i fun-/"’ i
tlVi'S
«§
®eK2
ixfct
sKC
■fYs,
iife;in ; ' | iiii
'•••.;
Ii
uAh
m
; ; -v
't* •{•■
rar
SSEi
’fiimvl!!
vV
*V
i
« ,
"Hill.
Hiiu 1 '
$
VWV-
-«s*<
f
HE approach of Christmas and
the Holiday Season which
follows, call for preparedness
against the dress needs of the mid-
summer vacation-time and the many
year-end festive occasions.
Time presses on, however, and the man who
plans to wear an "Austral” Sac Suit before the
New Year should place his order here and now
—the earlier the better in every way.
“Austral” Sac Suits to Measure :
75/-, 85/-,95/-, 105/-. 115/-. 126/-, 147/-, 157/6
Our Customers in Town or Country may rely on the prompt fulfil-
ment of their orders, but with only four weeks intervening it is
imperative that orders for “Austral’’ apparel made to measure
should be in our hands without undue delay.
Those who are unable to call in person have yet time in which to
ask for patterns and send their orders by mail. The carriage is
paid on all Country orders —send for (lie patterns to-day.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
(SOWING BR“ L™
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484=490 George Street; 3=17 Royal Arcade,
304=306 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
In
nV


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antinionial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lea cl Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
81affs * etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Lead Drosses, etc.
JBHAS
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge#
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance. Repairs, Renewals of Lifting
opes an other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and
ig piessuie Stocks generally. Best Workmanship and material.
Quotations supplied.
A MAYNE HERON, Manager.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Bank of Commerce has
made an offer to the City Bank of Sydney to
buy it out for £7 a share cash; and the
question will be remitted to the City’s
shareholders with a recommendation that the
offer be accepted. City shares are £8 paid ;
but it is very many years since they were at
par, and they have been recently quoted at
about £5 10s. Nor is there any strong pro-
bability that the dividend could be quickly
increased. The trouble has been that the
City failed to have a clearing-up after the
tribulations of the ’nineties, and for the
greater part of the subsequent years it has
been restoring lost capital out of current
earnings. This has had the effect of making
the bank appear to be doing less well than
actually was the case, and has kept it under
a cloud. That it should pay sometimes as
little as p.c. dividend and generally only
3 p.c. or 4 p.c. was taken by the public as an
indication of weakness; hence its visible pro-
gress has been slow, while that of most of
its competitors has been rapid.
The question for the shareholders now is
whether the prospects of the bank justify
them in hanging on. A dividend of 4 p.c. on
100 shares is worth £32 p.a. to them. Assum-
ing that they can get 5 p.c. for their money,
the purchase price will bring them in £35
p.a. The chances are that they can get in-
vestments at present yielding* 5 p.c. with
prospects of quicker improvement than the
City Bank offers. The success of a bank
depends, apart from management, upon the
appeal it makes to the public. In no other
kind of business is apparent success so
necessary to success. For over 20 years the
City has not adopted a policy of even
appearing to be successful. Hence a bank with
no past, good, bad or indifferent, would, with
equal management, make probably greater
progress during the next 10 years than this
old-established concern. There may be share-
holders who will regret to see the old name
disappear. A mistaken policy was, however,
adopted many years ago; and the penalty
has to be paid. But £7 a share is a sola-
tium that is very easy to take.
From the point of view of the A.8.C., the
purchase may be excellent business even
while it is good business for the (Jity to sell.
The old A.J.C., in order to complete its
cleaning-up, found it necessary to convert a
very large amount of old deposits into share
capital; wherefore the capital of the A.B.C.
is quite disproportionate to its business. It
all along needed more advances, etc. It has
plenty of money available to pay out the
City shares; and the extraordinary security
it offers to depositors is likely to retain for
it the bulk of the City Bank’s fixed
deposits. But if it loses some it will not be
prejudiced. And, since it has ample re-
sources, and is not for that reason likely
to worry the borrowing customer as a weaker
bank might have to, it is likely to retain
most of the borrowers. This will be the
more likely because the staff of the City Bank
will be taken over in its entirety, with its
pension and other rights maintained, and
with better prospects of advancement in a
large concern than it could possibly have in
a small and stagnant one.
* * * *
National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) / —Dividends.—,
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
Sept., 1910. .£60,392 £35,773 £9,173 £15,446 £253,483
Mar., 1911.. 66,815 35,773 9,173 21,869 275,352
Sept., 1911.. 63,053 35,773 9,173 18.107 293,459
Internal reserves disclosed. . 35,000 328,459
Mar., 1912.. 77,104 35,773 9,173 32,158 360,617
Internal reserves disclosed. . 25,000 385,617
Sept., 1912.. 78,742 35,773 9,173 33,796 419,413
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1913 . 84,232 41,735 10,702 31,795 451,208
Sept., 1913.. 82,283 41,735 10,702 29,846 481,054
Mar., 1914.. 87,855 41,735 10,702 35,418 516.472
Sept., 1914.. 84,073 41,735 10,702 31,636 548.108
Mar., 1915.. 77,224 41,735 10,702 24,787 572,895
Sept., 1915.. 73,480 41,735 10,702 21,043 593,938
Mar., 1916.. 80,601 41,735 10,702 28,164 622,102
Sept., 1916.. 73,429 41,735 10,702 20,992 643,094
Mar., 1917.. 73,038 41,735 10,702 20,601 663,695
Sept., 1917.. 79,489 41,735 10,702 27,052 690,747
Like every other bank this shows evidence of
the fictitious prosperity of Australia —a
prosperity which has just been reflected in
the most extravagant Cup meeting that Mel-
bourne has known for very many years.
Look at those figures and from one point of
view you can’t marvel at it: —
Liabilities.
1914. 1916. 1917.
Notes . . . . £37,804 £33,942 £32,843
Bills, etc 637,150 830,208 1,037,462
Free deposits . . 4,208,647 4,086,763 5,119,418
Deposits at interest 6,353,499 6,700,958 7,326,515
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 3,720,867 3,994,406 6,299,260
Advances . . . . 9,264,661 9,435,274 9,051,551
Premises, etc. .. 429,337 420,942 411,830
So deposits have been increased by £1,883,787
since the war began; and the National is
only one in a crowd. On the other side
there are no less than £2,578,393 of addi-
tional liquid assets. But cut up those assets,
and it will be found that a million and a
half or more consists of paper. It is the
country’s promise to pay out of future earn-
ings.
Nevertheless, it mustn’t be supposed for a
moment that the people who have banked
these extra two millions of deposits haven’t
anything but paper. There is no mere paper
wealth about the war-profiteer. The holder
of the war-loan bond has exchanged legal
tender for the certificate and the war-profit-
eer has got the legal tender —either our own
or the legal tender of somebody else, a good
deal of it procured by John Bull or other of
the Allies in the same way as we have put
money into circulation. Some of us are dis-
posed when we see riotous war-time extrava-
gance to say “Oh, well, their day of reckon-
ing will come.” It is easy comfort—too easy.
In the first place, the Federal Government
has permitted, most war profits to escape
extra taxation. Then there is nothing to
prevent these people investing in one War
Loan the profit which they have made out of
previous loans; and thus they become exempt
from future taxation. As a matter of fact,
large amounts have been invested in this
way; so that the war-profiteers won’t even
have to pay their proportion of the interest
and redemption bill.
This matter has had the earnest attention
of the National Bank’s Board lately, and
Chairman John Grice’s speech was for the
most part a carefully-prepared memorandum
unanimously adopted by the directors.
Bulletin readers know the arguments quite
well; this paper is almost tired of repeating
them in. the ear of a dull Treasury. But
the National Bank directors, developing one
or the. arguments against exempting War
Loan investments from income tax, intro-
duce a most convincing table: —
To Persons living in yictoria, investments in the
War Loan, with exemption from taxation, compare
with an investment on mortgage, subject to both
ederal and State taxation, as follows:
To an investor with £5OO a year, the 44 p.c.
War Loan is equal to £4 14s. 6d., or nearly 4f p,c.
received from interest on mortgage. To an investor
with £lOOO a year the equivalent of £4 19s. 2d.,
or nearly 5 p.c. To an investor with £3OOO a year
£5 10s. 5d., or just over sjj p.c. To an investor
with £5500 a year £6 os. Bd., just over 6 p.c. To
an investor with £lO,OOO a year, £6 9s. 9d., say
63 p.c. By the time we reach a man with £30,000
a year it is equivalent to £6 18s. 4d., or nearly 7
p.c. Assuming the graduated basis of taxation to be
equitable, the taxpayer with £30,000 a year thus
gains by investment in War Loan an advantage of
nearly 2-1 p.c. over the man with an income of £5OO
a year who similarly invests.
Looking at it from another aspect, and taking 6
p.c. as the ruling rate of mortgage at the present
time, the small man, whose investment in the War
Loan equals only 4f p,c. to him on mortgage, loses
about 11 p.c. by the investment in the War Loan,
and the very rich one with £30,000 a vear, who
receives what is equal to £6 18s. 4d. p.c. by invest-
ment in the War Loan, benefits to the extent of
nearly 1 p.c. over the mortgage rate. This high
rate to the wealthy, with such a security as the
Federal Government has to offer, must be too tempt-
ing for any wise capitalists to refuse, especially when
they take into consideration a possibility that future
taxation may be even heavier than the present, in
which case they will receive even a greater
advantage.
This bank, like the rest of them, isn’t so
much concerned about these people receiving
a great advantage; its real trouble is the
implied disadvantage to somebody else. The
more somebody doesn’t pay the more some-
body else must pay. To a man who. having
grown very rich by war-profiteering, has
put money into a War Loan, this country is
allowing just upon 7 p.c. on his investment;
and that means a crushing burden upon the
future industry of the country—the thing
to which this and every other bank must
look for its profits.
The management of the National evi-
dently recognises that the much larger fig-
ures shown by modern balance-sheets are
not to be trusted. Therefore the advances
have actually diminished since the war
started ; and the opportunity has been seized
to write down premises, too, while making
all additions out of current profit The
reduction in advances has no doubt followed
the great payments for wool and meat \
lot of this money is apparently held by the
bank in London. With ordinary trading
conditions it wouldn’t have been‘ there so
long earning money at short call: the ex-
porter would have got busy, and the “bal-
ance ’ would have been “preserved”— they
would have taken our money and we should
have taken the things we are now either
doing without or making for ourselves. The
sooner those large balances in London are
absorbed the better. They are at present
only incitements to importation at a time
when we can't afford to buy imports. We
owe too much : the only things we can really
afford to import are repurchased foreign
loans, so as to ease our interest burden. We
can get them, too, at prices such as we pro-
bably shall never see again.
The Farmers’ Co-operative Association
of Canterbury (M.L.) :
Total
Div. and Writ-
Visible Bonus to ten Re-
July, Profits. Customers. Off. serves.
1910. . it 38,366 f g p,C- r r e d f - ?£ 31,974 £B6B £73,682
New share premiums, £2852 .. 76,534
1911.. 47,871 | Orel j 36,642 2094 85,669
New share premiums, £7277 . . 92,946
1912.. 50,259 | g-P- c - Q r r e d f< | 37,565 1684 103,956
New share premiums, £1154 .. 105,110
1913.. 55,321 j If'- Pl r e d f ; } 43,265 2072 115,094
New share premiums, £243 .. 115,337
1914.. 61,884 | Pr r e d '_- | 50,630 2391 124,200
New share premiums, £345 .. 124,545
1915.. 58,031 j g?' C " | 44,843 3578 134,155
New share premiums, £2235 .. 136,390
1916.. 65,889 | \ 51,149 3948 147,182
r New share premiums, £2247 .. 149,429
1917.. 66,842 j ® p ‘ c - j 48,503 4542 163,226
The ordinary div. comes down another point
or so ; and, though 7 p.c. looks pretty good,
it has to be remembered that most of the
shares have been issued at a premium. Those
sent to market during recent years have been
40s. paid, sold at 505.; and the 7 p.c. div.
on that basis is really a div. of a little over
5J p.c. Still these are exceptional times
and we shall have to put up with many
worse things than p.c. divs. before we are
finished. So far the turnover is all right,
and will probably remain all right, so far,
at any rate, as volume is concerned. What
the prices will be can only be wildly guessed
at. Simply because they possess institu-
tions like the Farmers’ Co-op. of Cantei’bury
the wheat and wool and meat growers of
Maoriiand will be better able to face dis-
aster than those of Australia, on the whole.
Of the commission charges the rebate to
shareholders during the past 25 years has
been from 20 to 30 p.c., and the bonus on
purchases has run from 2£ to 5 p.c. In 10
years the shareholders, besides earning a
fair dividend on their capital, have thus
saved approximately £145,000. In addition
they have built up reserves which under
normal conditions make a dividend of 10 p.c.
fairly easy. But war taxes have made it
impossible to maintain the old bonus rates
either. Instead of a rebate of 30 p.c. the
shareholder-customers are to get only 20 p.c.
and the bonus on purchases is reduced from
5 to 3 p.c. Taxes, which amounted to only
£4138 in the year to the end of July, 1914.
consumed £14,784 in the past 12 months;
and there was an additional £2939 which
the co. taxed itself to pay for insurance of
employees at the Front, etc. And “in a few
months,” according to the directors’ forecast,
“the association will be called upon to pay
probably some £32,000 in income tax.'”
Whether even the present diminished ben-
efits can be maintained seems, therefore,
doubtful; But the shareholder in the Co-op.
concern at least has this satisfaction;
whether the rebate or bonus is large or little
he gets cost-price service. All he has to
look after is the management—he has to see
that his cost-price isn’t as high as Private
Enterprise’s cost-price with profit added.
It is a long time since any stones were
thrown at this co.’s management. The Can-
terbury is one of the two or three Maoriiand
concerns towards which the Australian pro-
ducers and their friends look enviously. And
its progress has been most impi’essive:—
Liabilities.
„ , 1905. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Capital. . . . £65,605 £405,011 £446,376 £491,586
Fixed deposits. . 80,911 299,182 346,867 402 644
Other liabilities 100,744 376,220 348,214 447,468
Assets.
Advances .. 104,861 459,451 493,994 563,365
Stock . . . . 88,064 239,393 296,350 362 619
Freeholds,etc.. . 40,318 144,293 159,055 187,806
Plant, etc. .. 3,953 25,784 24,483 30 418
Book debts .. 45,625 235,321 259,104 270,189
Cash . . . . 15,415 157,026 110,098 121 165
Investments .. 1,770 1,797 1,785 6 770
Sundries .. 1,464 1,923 1,366 1)537
Piactically this co. does for rural industi'y
v;hat two or three big associations, working
more or less on German lines, are striving
to do for the secondary industries of Britain
-to finance them on business principles yet
with sympathy, employing for the purnose
tae surplus capital of the industry itself
The fixed deposits— mostly left for from two
to five years—belong, it was said a while
ago, wholly to shareholders; and nearly
four-fifths of “other liabilities” are also
amounts owdng to shareholders on current
account. The totals look large and the
reserves to protect the risks might well be
Larger. But one has to remember the size
of the turnover, ibis paper doesn’t know
what it was last year, but for 1915 p. ..
was over millions. All the „ , u
should be made or any debt incurred ° an
now without taking into serious accoimt p*
grave uncertainties of the future. 1 the
(TmT- LYELL MINING AXD lUi ™ay Co.
Profits. Dividends. Off tn iio
Sept., £ % u “- Reserves.
1909. . 286,092 1 7 i p.c.= 210,000 9q 081 «
1910.. 226,092 171 ~,,210 000 i0’993
1911. . 174,417 124 ~,,150,000 19T30 r£’°? 7
Premiums on new shares, £2l 683 2 wo- 02
1912.. 147,683 6* p.c.= 75,000 20 690
1913.. 58,476 Nil 64®
Premiums on new shares, £738
1914.. 113,536 11J p.e.= 144,884 25 872 fivofoi
1915.. 273,989 5 ~„ 64,460 100,506 781*760
Written oft mine property.. 168 088
193 3 * 1 * 8 ;? 33 12 -i . ” ” 1(51 ’149 49,722 749 9.-J
After providing for War Time Profits Tax ’ 4
As accounts are now published only o nee a
year, the table has been recast to make 1
comparison of present and past results easier
But some of the figures for any single term
are not of much consequence. Twelve
months ago there was 2666 tons copper not
finally settled for, and this was taken into
account at £OO per ton, though most of it
subsequently brought £l2O c.i.f. London
How much was unsettled for as at Sept 30
this year the directors don’t mention j u
the past year (say) £204,000 was received
on account of copper produced in the previ-
ous year and taken credit for in the accounts
of that year at only £160,000; and obvi-
ously a lot depends upon the quantity of
copper on hand and the price at which it
has been taken credit for as at Sept. 30 0 f
this year. The estimated net value of cop-
per, etc., on hand and in transit as at Sept.
30 was £306,385, as against £288,640 last
year ; but drafts and advances against ship-
ments totalled £254,824 as at Sept. 30 this
year, as against only £152,324 last year. It
is therefore not at all certain that the past
year’s profit figures have not benefited con-
siderably at the expense of the previous
year’s. On the other hand the directors
have put by out of the past year’s revenue
no less than £180,634 for war-time and other
taxes. This is somewhat in excess of the
provision in previous years:—
1914 .. £3,571 ! 1916 ..£167,767
1915 .. 22,301 | 1917 .. 180,634
Apparently the amount actually paid out
during the past year was £42,004, and there
is now on hand £303,354. If the co. can cal-
culate closely the amount payable as war-
time profit tax it has a better mathematician
on the premises than most people. Consider-
ing the total amount said to be expected
from all sources, it seems highly improbable
that this co. will be called upon for anything
like the amount in hand.
“In view of the scarcity of paper, as well
as the desirability of exercising economy,”
the directors don’t publish any report except
their own this year. General-manager Sticht
is away in America, looking into the electro-
lytic treatment of the Ilead-Rosebery zinc
ores, and that might have been added to the
paper-shortage excuse. However, it doesn’t
matter much ; for the directors give a fairly
complete summary of work done. No new
calculation of ore reserves has been made;
but based on the calculatiqps made in March.
1916, there are now 2,013,439 tons in Lyell
(including South Lyell) and 997,904 in
North Lyell. From the 4,700,000 tons or
thereabouts of ore produced by the present
co. (formed in 1903) dividends equal to
about 9s. Od. per ton have been paid; and
there is on the same basis about 235. per
share left. This, of course, assumes that all
the profit has been made out of the ore, and
none out of the superphosphate. As a matter
of fact, the latter business must have been
very profitable during the last few years,
and there are scarcely any bounds to its
possibilities. As against that gain during
recent years must be set the very greatly in-
creased cost of copper-production. In the half-
year to the end of September, 1915, the cost
of producing blister was 18s. 7.83 d. per ton
of ore ; in the past year the cost xvas no less
than £1 6s. 6.49 d. But it would be absurd to
fly off the handle and on the strength of
those figures rave at labor. The same influ-
ences which have put up costs of production
have put up the price of copper; and when
the price of copper falls costs will fall, too.
The net profit for the past year, assuming
that the w T hole £180,634 put by for taxes will
be called for, was a few pence in excess of
£1 per ton of ore mined. It is safer to take
the 9s. 6d. per ton, which is the dividend
paid on the average ton of ore since this co.
started. As previously said, this would work
out at about 235. per share for the ore avail-
able on the basis of the old estimates of
reserves. In addition, there is over Bs. per
share of more or less liquid assets in excess
of liabilities. Lyell, being very affluent, does
not include as liquid assets the £91.865 at
which its shares in other cos. stand in its
books. These shares include the co.’s in-
terest in the Read-Rosebery group; and
Sticht’s investigations in U.S.A. go to show


p or PERPETUAL
31 Years
Trustee Company
(Limited)
has been in busi-
ness as a Corporate
Trustee.
Since its incorporation
it has never been held
liable by the Courts
for a breach of Trust
of any description.
The Company acts as
Executor and Trustee.
Administrator in Intes-
tacy, Attorney Under
Power, Agent, etc., etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Manager:
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 5 11
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars.— Advt.
Every man to his own trade. The auctioned
knows more about sales than the sailor does about
auctions. So, when selecting your roofing, ask the
advice of those who have spent a lifetime in selling
the best roofing that money can buy. And just
why “Adamax” Asphaltum Roofing excels is appar-
ent. “Adamax,” compared with galvanised-iron, is
one-third lower both in first cost and in freight
charges, thereby effecting a double saving. It is
fire- and acid-resistant, and immune to the ravages
of rain, rot and rust. “Adamax” is ideal for roofs
of low pitch, and low-pitched roofs effect a consider-
able saving in expenditure. It covers important
public buildings throughout the Commonwealth.
Fuller particulars are contained in the “Adamax"
booklet. Write for it. William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Cq. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description!
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in.
America.—Advt. j;
Have you clearly understood that Pioneer Wood!
Pipei can not only save you money, but can also save
you a lot of worry and annoyance with rusting and!
corroding pipes? Its durability is beyond question.
Water preserves the wood. Send for illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.
(head office), Burns Bay Road, Longueville. Con-
tractors to all Slate Governments. Factories: Burns;
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. Footscrav, Victoria "
and Port Adelaide, S.A.—Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys;,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street.
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.—Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can he procured ait
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock
Estimates, supplied for fitting laboratories. lien<4
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.* —Advt.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. —Machinery. Head office:
Sydney. In spite of war and submarines we can supply
immediately: “Robey’s” famous Steam Portable-
Engines, 8, 14 and 16 nominal h.p. ; “National"
world-renowned Oil and Petrol Engines from If to 7
brake h.p. ; “National” Suction Gas Engines, 18 and
46 brake h.p. ; “National” Suction Gas Plant for
about 100 brake h.p. engine; “National” Town’s Gas
Engines, 4 i to 26 brake h.p.—Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.—Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent-
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins "street Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice Write-
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Gentling'-
Balances Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’-
sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals al
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. II B
Selby k Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney • am
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.—Advt, ‘ ’ ’
wuußorht:
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Slock.
Insure in
Th < 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON- 3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE —75 King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
that the ore from those mines is “splendidly
adapted for the proposed treatment, with
relatively low power requirements.” There
may thus be a bit more to come from that
quarter. And to that you may add the other
bit which will certainly come from the ore
developed in North Lyell since the last esti-
mate of reserves was made. Most of this
was expected and was probably included in
the estimates; but it certainly wasn't ex-
pected to be so rich. As at March, 1916, the
date of the estimate, North Lyell’s ore was
valued atS6 p.c. copper, 1.330 z. silver and
,005 oz. gold; whereas of the 85,306 tons
mined last year 82,185 tons sent to the
smelters assayed 6.68 p.c. copper, 1.4440 z.
silver and ,009 oz. gold. Further, the inex-
pensive flotation process will make profits
out of very considerable bodies of ore not
hitherto included with reserves. Thus far
most of the ore treated by this process has
come from the Lyell Comstock mine (about
2.9 p.c. copper, .17oz. silver and ,0270 z. gold).
and the recovery last year was 88.52 p.c. of
the copper, 75.12 p.c. of the silver and 71.88
p.c. of the gold in a concentrate assaying
9.31 p.c. copper, ,61oz. silver and .60oz.
gold. A leaching process is being tried on
this ore and concentrate. It removed 78
p.c. of the copper in the- ore and 91 p.c. in
the concentrate. “Amply justifies further in-
vestigation,” says the Board ; and Sticht is
looking into this method of treatment as
practised in America. Incidentally, and as
a sideline, the co. is continuing its experi-
mental work with a view to recovering the
hitherto-lost sulphur.
The first report of Mt. Read and Rosebery
Mines, Ltd., is hatched along with the Lyell
accounts. The areas taken over and the
prices paid, etc., were :
Hercules.—l2o,ooo shares and £lO,OOO cash to
pay debts. Purchase completed.
Primrose. —25,000 shares. Completed.
Tasmanian Copper (Rosebery).—loo,ooo shares
and not exceeding £30,000 to pav debts. Purchase
expected to be completed about January 1, 1918.
All the leases are in the eo.’s possession, and
by special Act the co. has the right to hold
them for 30 years, with special conditions as
to renewal for further periods of 30 years,
and to select a suitable site for treatment
works near Zeehan. Mt. Lyell is entitled
to the allotment of 100.000 shares ; but these
shares are not to be delivered until at least
six months after the close of the war. In
return Mt. Lyell undertakes to provide not
less than £240,000 on debentures convertible
into shares, the issue of debentures to be
made not later than six months after the
Kaiser’s pot is on. Meantime Lyell is financ-
ing the co. Up to September 30 it had ad-
vanced £60,013. So far, the work done has
been mainly exploratory, and confined to the
Hercules and Rosebery. The developments
in the Rosebery have been very satisfactory.
As far as it has gone the work shows: —
r-_ V alue.
Ore Zinc Lead Silver Gold
tons. p.c. p.c. oz. oz.
Hercules .. 411.836 30.26 7.25 8.12 .143
Rosebery . . 652,351 25.60 7.34 10.48 .118
And there is probably a lot more than that
in the Rosebery.
While R. M. Murray, Lyell’s engineer, was
probing the mines, general-manager Sticht
was probing the electrolytic treatment pro-
cess, and, after having had samples vari-
ously tested, reports that things are better
than middling. Ilansen, electrical-metallur-
gical engineer of the General Electric Co.,
after his elaborate trials, “can see no valid
reason militating against the financial suc-
cess of the direct treatment of the ore with-
out preliminary concentration. He reports
that the testing of the ore has gone through
unprecedently well, and that the material is
remarkably tractable.” Commercially success-
ful treatment is, however, “dependent upon
a sufficient' supply of electric power at a
reasonable price.” The co. is hoping that the
Speck Government will spend £900,000 on
the King River scheme, to supply 45,000
h.p.; meantime Lyell is extending its own
Lake Margaret scheme, from which it will be
able to spare for a time 3000 h.p. for the use
of Read-Rosebery, if it wants it, for operating
a first unit of an electrolytic plant. The
process consists of (1) roasting, (2) leach-
ing and (3) removal of the zinc by electric
current, the leaching solution being used
over and over again. On the American
tests the resulting spelter is “of the highest
quality; in fact, very exceptionally pure.”
When J. D. Millen reported on the Dal-
mayne coal-mine (Tas.) he reckoned £35.000
would have to be spent to make a start on
the 6,000.000 tons of marketable coal he com-
puted to be available. The other day, behind
closed doors, shareholders bestirred them-
selves, the rumpus ending in a half-shuffle
on the Board. Perhaps the balance-sheet is
the reason. The co.’s prospectus was issued
in October, 1914, when the public was asked
to take up 50,000 shares out of 125,000 of £1
each. Whether it was that 55,000 paids rep-
resented too much water to the vendor (Dal-
mayne Proprietary Ltd.) or not, the fact
remains that the balance-sheet of to-day
shows that only 19,460 shares were paid for
in cash. To get capital, authority was given
later to float 350 first-mortgage 8 p.c.
debentures of £lOO each, and 277 were taken
up. Certain rights of conversion and free
shares were given as a bait to subscription,
so the position of shareholders’ capital was
considerably altered. When all husks are
shredded off and the final payments made, it
looks as if the co. will get £20,400 from the
debentures already taken up. Then £6621
figures as an o.d. from the bank, and that
advance is against £7300 of debentures “and
collateral security.” The whole liabilities to
the public run out as follows: Bank, £6621;
sundry creditors, etc., £10,772; debentures,
£16,928; State loan, £1600; and contingent
liabilities, £4794; total, £40,715. If the co.
is really at the ou'«»)utting stage on the scale
designed by Millen, the excess over his esti-
mate of £35,000 to get the colliery in work-
ing trim isn’t out of the way considering
war-time costs and troubles. Manager
McDonald pins his faith to Dalmayne because
of possible low costs due to easy-working
conditions and the quality of the coal. But
the shipping problem glares at his optimism.
Thus far, £2556 is all that has been spent on
development, as against £28,000 on plant and
jetty. Meantime, during the past 2\ years
establishment charges have swallowed up
£6904, of which £2093 went in Board fees
and other office lingerie. It will be an aston-
ishingly fortunate concern if it can stand
that sort of thing.
Bischoff Extended (Tas.) pays its first
sixpenny on 32,000 shares. The co. is
moderately capitalised compared with the
revenue from tin concentrates, but hitherto
costs have been too heavy to permit of divi-
dends. Last half-year was the best, for the
mill treated 7780 tons crudes for 103 tons
roasted concentrates, which realised £15,589
—£lso per ton, proof even in these times
that the concentrate is of exceptional grade.
* * * *
Labor shortage and increased costs were
much talked of at South Kalgurli (W.A.)
meeting in London recently. Chairman
Marker declared that at one time during
the year labor was so scarce that the man-
ager urged (1) the restriction of all work to
development and (2) the shutting down of
the mill. The Board, however, decided on
“business as usual.” Seeing that there was
enough ore in sight to keep going for 18
months or perhaps two years, the Board
reckoned there was no necessity to confine
expenditure to development only. Besides,
even if the monthly results did show a little
loss, it was better to continue working rather
than close down and incur a bigger loss in
plant deterioration and underground wear
and tear. The loss for the past six months,
including development outlay, had been about
£6OO. But there was a silver lining to the
dark cloud. The co. is now said to be on
the track of what appears to be a good shoot
at 1000 ft. and 1200 ft. Liquid assets were
£46.000. of which £32,526 was invested in
War Loans.
* * * *
For years Ivanhoe, Ivalgoorlie (W.A.),
has been in the clutches of a porphyry in-
trusion which has impoverished its main
ore body for many hundreds of feet in
depth, knocking shares down from £lO to
£2 and reducing divs. to correspond. Geo-
logist Dr. Maclaren reckoned that the lode
would get clear of the porphyry somewhere
about 3000-odd feet; but the shaft is now
down considerably below that depth, and
although a good deal of prospecting has been
done nothing very encouraging has yet been
struck, and the lode, although away from
the porphyry in places, still remains as
poor as Lazarus. Jack McDermott, recently
appointed to succeed deceased Bob Nicolson
as general manager, has started to see what
he can do about it.
* * * *
Kalgurli Gold Mines (W.A.) lingers on.
The manager states that the search for new
ore bodies has only been moderately success-
ful during the past year, and that the
"measurable quantity of a grade likely to
show a profit under present abnormal con-
ditions” amounts to only a few months’
supply. Recent boring at 420 ft. indicates
a probable addition to reserves, but even
though further ore may be located in other
parts of the old workings, the area for pos-
sible fresh discoveries is now very restricted ;
and failing fresh rich finds the co. will soon
be struggling with reduced grade. During
the year 103,210 tons were treated for
£179,837, compared with 119.180 tons for
£194,795 in the previous 12 months.
Bob Turner’s Riverina South, Mulline
(W.A.), is now in the hands of H. G.
Walton, once of Bewick, Moreing’s staff.
Most of his time has been taken in fixing
up equipment, sinking the main shaft to
412 ft. and crosscutting for the lode. Result:
the addition of 900 tons to ore reserves as
left by manager Richards, deceased, who
reckoned about 15,000 tons in sight, worth
(say) 575. per ton. Walton does not endorse
this estimate as exact, as it is based on
driving results alone, and water has kept
him from seeing a good deal of the ore.
What he does say, though, is that he ex-
pects to get a good deal more ore when the
stopes are opened up, but its grade may be
reduced by the lower-grade material in the
narrower workings. The co. carries a
debenture load of £6OOO, and there are sun-
dry creditors for over £5OOO. Walton, hav-
ing been brought up in a hard mining-school,
intends to strike out for the main shoot at
No. 4 level before starting treatment. If,
when picked up, the shoot can be labelled
good grade, the co. should soon be wiping
out debts and making cash with which to
properly prospect its long line of lode. What
looks certain is that a good deal of the
2s. 6d. uncalled capital will have to be pro-
duced by shareholders before that happy
day is reached.
* * * *
Leonora Gold Blocks (W.A.) obtained an
extraction of approximately ss. per ton from
740 tons, which will just about pay work-
ing costs. This Leonora show is like Edna
May Battler at Westonia. Both have a
narrow vein worth about 15dwt., which,
under present conditions, cannot be profitably
treated. Tributors might be more successful.
Comes a sniff of an old-time blue duck,
the fragrance of which a number of people
will remember: —
The machinery at the Mitchell River Gold and
Antimony mine has been purchased by the Biboohra
meatworks and the boiler will be used at the pro-
jected new works at Biboohra.
The smell, bad as it may be at the new loca-
tion, won’t be any worse than the boiler was
used to in its infancy.
John Munro is back at the O.lv. copper-
mine (N.Q.), and is reported to be getting
some 20 to 25 p.c. ore from near the surface
of the O.lv. North.
John Reid, present manager of the Irvine-
bank Co., has applied for and been granted
two five-acre leases covering the Lady Jane
and Girofla mines at Chillagoe. Someone
suggests that Randolph Bedford should write
a “lament” on the demise of the Lady Jane.
* * * *
The Oaks and Thompson’s are still plug-
ging away on the Oaks goldfield (N.Q.), the
former working by open cut, the latter follow-
ing a quartz reef which looks like a per-
manent thing. The Oaks is crushing about
1000 tons a month and pulling through
though the yield is only just over lOOoz.
Thompson’s does from 30 to 35 tons a month,
averaging close-up 3oz. But costs are very
heavy nowadays in both cases, and the gold-
miner gets no more for his product. Thomp-
son’s are putting in a compressor and a
couple of drills in hopes of doubling the out-
put without materially adding to the costs.
The old Tyrconnell (Q.) promises well.
The last crushing of 250 tons gave 2580 z.,
said to be worth £3 per oz., an improvement
of 16s. an oz. on the gold won from the
shallower levels. Latest report says that a
new reef Ift. wide worth 4oz. has been cut
in the sink of the mainshaft.
It took only five months to get the King
Island Scheelite plant bought, erected and
working. Nine weeks’ run to September 30
showed 2108 tons treated for 29| tons con-
centrates, which sold for £5226, or 495. 7d.
per ton. As since that date another 27 tons
have been shipped there is whispering that
the first div. is to float out before the New
Year. On the first campaign a profit of
£1641 was netted. The co. shows a surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities of £9264.
With 78,000 tons ore of 1.1 p.c. wolfram
grade the battery is to be tuned up to three-
shift work. Though L. Venn Brown testi-
fies to the efficiency of the plant, the recover-
ing of 495. 7d. from 635. 9d. ore looks noth-
ing to be very jubilant about. Still he is
honest enough not to hold out the usual
promise that more plant will improve extrac-
tion.
The Trong deal with the Malaya Tin Cor-
poration boils down to a five-months’ work-
ing option over 140 acres of alleged lib. tin-
oxide ground in Siam. Trong is to check-
bore the area, and if satisfied it hands over
£5OOO cash and 17.000 fully-paid shares to
the Malaya crowd. This would mean that
Trong would have to enlarge its register by
3000 shares. It will of course have to shift
its plant to the new ground, and, judging by
the Deebook-Ronpibon experience, that will
cost a bit. Still the co. has well on to
£lO,OOO in hand.
Melbourne-owned Philippine Dredging re-
ports 20890 z. gold for October, which follows
15500 z. in September. All four dredges
appear to be in payable ground, but the
splendid return of 88Soz. from No. 2 in
October following 8450 z. in September over-
shadows the work of the others. The four
machines turned over 240.000 cub. yds., and
if we valim 20590 z. at £BOOO the average
return works out at 9d. per yard. But even
this No. 2 doesn’t equal the record put up
by No. 2 of the Adelong Estates (N.S.W.),
which recently recovered 350|0z., worth
about £l4OO, in a week of 132 hours, and
there was a previous record of 3140 z. in
125 hours.
•* X- * *
Morning Star. Woods Point (Vic.), which
shed out £250.000 of gold in the good old
days, and which Minister Livingston backed
to the tune of £lO,OOO on the £ for £ system,
lias got a six-inch splice after sinking to
400 ft. and driving into the big dyke. Seeing
that Dickenson’s A 1 at Gaffney’s near-by
turned up trumps, the punters who did well
out of that show boosted the market both
on the splice news and because good gold is
showing in the quartz. There is plenty of
excitement to be got out of mining on the
Woods Point dyke system. If the splices
widen out to floors, a jeweller’s shop may be
found. While the hunt is fascinating, on
the whole, it has never been really profitable
to the mountaineers, as gold and quartz
cut out so suddenly that no one ever gets
from under in time.
* * * *
Soon after it entered the war the U.S.A.
turned a cold eye on the copper producer,
who had been getting as much, as 36 cents
per lb. The War Industries Board fixed
the price at 23s cents f.o.b. N’York, and
this was to come up for revision in four
months. The price is equal to about £llO
in England.
CIT tld Cat ” continued on page 3Jf.)


BEAUTY WITHOUT ROUGE, CREAM
OR POWDER.
A PARISIAN COMPLEXION SECRET.
Contrary to the usual belief, the most
beautiful French ladies rarely use rouge or
creams or powders containing bismuth or
caustic alkali, claiming, and with very good
reason, that such preparations not only give
a made-up appearance but ultimately ruin
the complexion. When asked what they use
to preserve and enhance their beauty, they
invariably give the credit to the regular use
of an inexpensive lotion (obtainable of any
good chemist) prepared by mixing 2oz. Rose
Water with 2oz. Flowers of Oxzoin and
1 dram Tincture of Benzoin. Apply every
night and morning with a soft cloth or
sponge. It quickly tones up the dullest skin
and gives a fresh rose-bloom complexion,
such as is usually seen only in youth.
Although nothing has yet been found which
completely removes deep wrinkles, this makes
them far less apparent, and a lady using it
regularly is certain never to have a badly-
wrinkled face.— Advt.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (Q. chandon.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FES Q (S. CO. LIMITED, Sydney
Charles
Neidsiecks
Vintage 1906
ariPM
HE PLUS ULTRA
y
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
c S^r m
a* e ob Btatt c^S '
| Perry _ ctr eet. na^„ n d\ J un
»>“'. s r «.--
«s&e£ssss- ,
ho 6 -r"'|
R etI "° g uverp° at A *eo«
JII lU.JU. I .. 1 Shop* W _w
Made throughout
Empire from Australasian
Leicester Workpeople
. t 1
m the
Wool by
U nderwear
l 0 1? which son All-wool goods are made,
\ percentage of f C K d tem P oranl y lower lines containing a
lines. Jole manufacturers £ the Same guaramee of quality as the regular
Get Jason guaranteed
unshrinkable Under-
wear for every member
of your family. Your dealer
will supply you.
*
JASON
UNDERWEAR
CO. 1
A b
LEICESTER.
ENG.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 19, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
The delayed opening of the Economy Ex-
hibition missed the Fullers, who had to go
north to open a new fish depot, so Grace
Burrows had to cast her net afresh. She
landed the Prime Minister. Having usurped
the Town Hall on the date originally fixed
for the opening, he made amends—or tried
to—by opening the show himself.
Eye-openers at the Exhibition are the
Women’s Horticultural Society’s show (one
of the best displays in the Town Hall) ; the
Tech.’s exhibit of the sort of furniture you
can make out of an old paling fence (if it
happens to be the right sort of paling) ; Red
Gross industries and dinners that cost 41d.
a head; and in the Baby Clinic you can have
a perfectly delirious feast on' the horrors
perpetrated by the loathsome fly as it
ambles over baby’s face or drags its sticky
way across a bowl of porridge.
The Girls’ Realm pours out tea in the
basement, with Mrs. A. 11. Norman in
charge.
At a recent hurriedly-arranged journal-
ists’ lunch to W. M. Hughes, the little man
sent a John the Baptist to warn the com-
pany that the express was late, and added
the p.s. “Don’t wait.” His share at any
spread that ever came within my ken is an
oyster or two and an unfriendly glare at
the procession of food that is set before him.
Last week he looked ill and desperately sleep-
less, but his speaking voice was full of
pepper and mustard. Justice Ferguson was
of those who returned thanks for the oratory.
Sydney has been full of returned soldiers
for the last week or two, and the Anzac
Buffet girls have been up to their apron-bibs
in sandwiches and buffs. In last week’s
little lot from France was Major Charlie
Lecky, D. 5.0., who used to be a peaceful
bank official. Chaplain Ward, of Canberra,
also came back after two years with our
boys at the Front.
The utterly disgraceful feature of the
arrangements was that the second instal-
ment of returned men had to stay away
from their waiting relatives an extra day
because the railways had to get the Cup
crowd back first. The trains on the N. S.
IV ales side couldn’t accommodate both, and
the sick and wounded soldiers had to stand
aside. If the Commissioners were respon-
sible, then I’ll never speak to them again.
Dorothy Odillo Maher was married to
Captain d’Apice by Archbishop Kelly in St.
Mary’s Cathedral oh Monday morn. The
handsome old building was trimmed with
marguerites and ferns, with pink blooms
tucked into the foliage. Uncle Maher, of 1
Colloroy station, handed the bride over.
The leading lady’s frocking was a billow of
white tulle, with a shimmer of satin peep-
m? through. A foam of the same delicate
white froth made the long train. Orange
buds the wreath was worn long ago by her
mother—caught the mist-white veil. Rose
point lace—also mother’s wedding finery—
was a climax to a heavenly gown. A. W. M.
D’Apice, who’s in the old legal firm of
Makinson and Plunket. gave his best girl a
vr 1 ?® °f pearls. Bridesmaid Gertrude
Maher supported her sister, in a pale bis-
cuit frock, with blue and purple posy. The
groom, an old Riverview College boy. was
faithful to the white spats of his Gent.
Help business (he shadows the State Gov-
ernor as a sideline to the law) and was
° l t^r^ ise clad in P ale S re y- Tall Clifford,
A.D.C., over from the G.-G.’s staff, was
second-best man. Only near relatives were
at the cutting of the wedding-cake at the
Wentworth.
Capt. Ken Prior, who, after 18 months in
Egypt and France, woke up in a cot at
Boulogne, and after sampling Epsom Hospi-
tal and.Cobham Hall was invalided back to
Australia, pushed out again for some Front
or other recently. At the last moment the
smiling youngster found himself O.C. on a
troopship with I don’t know how manv
nurses aboard. But he’d just anchored him-
self to three stars, which he left shining on
the finger of a nurse at home —Molly Law-
ler, of Randwick.
A most persistent beggar, Mrs. G. F.
Abbott, a fair stranger within our Heads,
is butting into her business before Our Day
is past. The lady has just scampered
through India on her mission, which is the
collection of cash for the Scottish AYomen’s
Hospitals. No one throws even a pepper-
mint, let alone a brick, at the cause she
pleads for. But the meeting that this
good lady is allowed to call in the Town
Hall could surely wait till we had finished
our effort for the British Red Cross, which
is spending £50,000 a week on the wounded.
Smaller havens with a Caledonian accent
are doing good work in smashed-up Europe.
But do their authorities sanction even
incidental collision with the mother of them
all?
A pathetic announcement —-"By direction
of Mrs. Theo Marks,” etc. A sale of jewel-
lery in Lawson’s rooms brought under the
hammer a wonderful necklet of seed pearls
which went for £l5OO. Diamond eardrops
that used to twinkle in the owner’s pretty
ears fetched £250. AA T hat a dismal postcript
that “Going—going—are you all done?
Gone ! Ladies and gentlemen—a bargain !”
About £3OOO was realised altogether.
Mrs. Thep Marks’s book, “Caprice,” is on
the market at a guinea a copy. But stop!
May a publication “for private circulation
only” be considered as on the market? I
don’t know, but as there were only 200
printed, and as the proceeds are to go
to the Children’s Hospital, you may still
be in time to secure a copy if you sprint to
the nearest taxi rank. “Caprice” is
gracefully dressed in delicate grey, its name
in dead black, and a sweeping peacock
feather lies athwart the cover like a slap in
the face of Fate. For isn’t the peacock’s
feather considered unlucky? Mrs. Theo
Marks has been much in Sydney spotlight
recently, but that she had literary leanings
and for years had been engaged in the mak-
ing of an anthology of verse will come as a
surprise to folk who knew her only as a
good-looker and smart-dresser. The two
•Lindsays, Souter and Norman Carter con-
tribute illustrations; Bertram Stevens
writes a foreword, and the whole thing is
beautifully got up.
A good amateur effort to produce “The
Geisha” and all its kimonos was repeated
at the Repertory last iveek. The Y.A.D.
training fund and Our Day suck the finan-
cial juice. Aloll.v McCubbin as Molly Sea-
more was an alluring young person in the
cast; Mrs. Eustace Ilolroyde warbled as
O Mimosa San ; two returned soldiers, Cap-
tain H. MacVean, M.C., and Lieut. L. G.
Casey, were lively members of the crew of
11.M.5. Turtle; and a very cute AVun Hi
(Harry Perfect) wagged his pigtail at the
teahouse.
The graceful head
and delicate profile
in this little picture
belong to Sergeant
Olive Kelso King. It
is very much as she
looked at the Rose
Ball—the Denmans’
farewell party in
Government House.
One of Sydney’s
pretty girls, a good
sport, and a charm-
ing dancer, it was
the sport part that
came to the surface
when the big call
came. To her other
accomplishments she
added a turn for
mechanics which is the
modern girl’s triumph over her grandmother
—a gentle creature who was desperately
tangled in the shuttle of the first sewing-
machine. Mastering the motor-car’s foibles,
the Sydney girl offered her services for war
work in France. In the early days there
she drove an ambulance behind those blue-
grey lines which the enemy vainly tried to
annihilate. But the call of mangled Servia
—a stifled voice under the German heel —was
imperative, and since then Olive Kelso King’s
hand has guided motor-loads of wounded,
and hurried generals to the Front, through
torrential streams and over the worst roads
in the world. Though pestilence by day and
shells by night may sometimes block the way,
this fearless young Australian—brilliant
type of the most versatile women in the
world —is still at the wheel. Decorated for
bravery, and smiling behind a sergeant’s
stripes, she can now chat to the Servian sol-
dier in his own language.
The Photographic Society’s show was
opened by Education Minister James the
other afternoon; and president 11. Cazneaux,
who has breathed new life into the body’s
old bones, hoped there would be another
muster next year and every year. Many of
the exhibitors have shown their impressions
of Australia in the London Salon—J. V. S.
White, for one, in “Melody of Morn,” which
pictures a mountain mist making ghosts
behind big gum-trees. There’s fine work by M.
Mackinnon, J. E. Stening, 0. E. Wakeford
and N. C. Deck; and J. E. Paton’s “Aus-
tralian Homestead” is remarkable for the
effect of vivid sunshine. Proceeds of a first-
rate show go to the AVar Chest. The artists
have hung hessian behind their wares. But
soon the mulberry stain is to go, and the
Education Galleries will have buff orpington
walls.
Answered the last Roll Call in France,
Sergeant Clive Ivaeppel. AVhen the Fleet
got the message “Go!” Clive, a lad of 18,
was at Newington and on the eve of sitting
for an examination prior to entering Dun-
troon. Deciding that Duntroon could wait,
he enlisted and left with the Ist Battalion
in October, 1914. After service in Egypt he
secured a commission in the British Army
and was wounded in the fighting on the
Canal. Returning to Australia in 1915 he
enlisted again and left for the Front in
March last year. Mother and sister are
mourning his loss at St. Kilda Hospital,
Elizabeth Bay.
For three years
Grace Stafford and
her youthful pupils
have been collecting
little extras for Bill-
jim at the Front.
Mostly their work
has beep for hard-
pressed comforts com-
mittees ; sometimes
for a war fund that
grows leaner as each
year’s blood-drenched
months go by. The
moving spirit in each
little play is the
smiling ail'd capable
young woman in this
photo. Grace has
two brothers in
khaki, a tireless fund
of super-energy and a knack of reducing
expenses to next-to-nothing. A “patriotic
week” recently bucked up nine comforts
depots with a cheque apiece. “All-of-a-
sudden Peggy” was the rilay. It was Peg’s
first appearance in Australia, with Grace in
her shoes. About £2OOO has been raised for
the man in the firing-line by this good
Australian.
A week or two ago Alice de Mestre, a
daughter of the late Ettie of racing memory,
was married to Frank Morrice. The pro-
mises were made at Garryowen, Moss Vale,
where the de Mestres have lived on a hill-
top for some years. But the name is better
known in connection with Terara, in the
Shoalhaven district. That old de Mestre
home was subsequently bought by the just-
dead Hugh Mackenzie. The huge Australian
Scot, who gave £40,000 for the property,
was a forceful voice in South Coast affairs.
Archbishop Kelly took the chair at the
annual judgment-day of Lewisham Hospital.
Justice Edmunds put the revenue on the
scales against the expenditure, and found it
about £2OOO short weight. But Lewisham is
one of the best-managed hospitals in the
State, and that pimple will soon be wdped
off. Its committed has as hon. sec. Justice
Edmunds and as hon. treas. .T. M. O’Neill,
who never lets a subscriber long out of his
sight.
There were more wide-open eyes at break-
fast this Monday than for many a morning.
Justice Edmunds’s senior colleague and co-
religionist Ileydon was responsible. The
Heydons are recognised as a sort of lay
leaders of the It.C. Church in Sydney ; and
when the Judge rose and very deliberately
charged Archbishop Mannix with being a
bad R.C. as well as a bad citizen, it was cer-
tain that somebody somewhere would have to
take notice.
Verbrugghen talks of going to U.S.A. for
the Christmas holidays to see what ’Murka
is up to in orchestral deviation from war
work. And this brings before the average
citizen some of the compensations for being
a musician. For 10 summer w r eeks or so
the Conservatorium staff can take off its
collar, wear a towel and ride the Manly
breakers, or it can perspire up mountains,
just as its fancy favors. Still the harmony-
makers have earned a rest; they have put
up a magnificent record of free services at
patriotic shows, and every other Saturday
has brought its special effort for Something.
The War Chest doll, dressed (against
national-economy principles) in silk, wool
and lace, so long on exhibition in Stott and
Hoare’s window, was raffled a week ago.
Mrs. Antill drew the winning ticket, which
turned out to be held by Miss Gavin, of
Neutral Bay. Miss Livermore, of Strath-
field, won the doll’s bedstead.
The other day James Lawson sold on
behalf of the War Chest, free of all charges,
pictures (mostly black and white) given hv
The Bulletin to one of the recent s t a ii;
Somewhat over £lO fell into the 5
cretonne-bag.
Dr. Ahern, of Townsville, is o ff agair
leaving about the end of this month He
goes to China on behalf of the Westmixs
ter Gazette. You may recall the charmine
little booklet, written for the usual financial
object, about his work in Servia in earlv
days of the war. He was in Sydney for a
space wearing the khaki outfit of the
colonel-sawbones, and a distinguishu2-lookin<-
figure he cut, ma foi!
Lord Cowdray, who has resigned the ton
seat on the British Air Board because
Northcliffe was offered a sort of aerial dic-
tatorship, is father of ex-Gov.-General Den-
man’s popular wife.
The widow of Alfred Bennett died at her
home near Camden, aged 70, on November
12. Emily Anne Bennett’s husband was a
son of that Samuel who founded the Even-
ing News just half a century ago, and was
proprietor of Henry Parkes’s old paper, The
Empire, a good many years before ’ that.
Alfred followed his father into the business!
Madeline Collins, the flapper soprano
whose extraordinary voice drew a crowded
farewell house at a Town Hall concert when
the first echoes of war’s alarms were dulling
enthusiasm in all else, is purringly content
with her progress in London. She has
recently signed a contract as leading lady
at His Majesty’s, and will open in “Monsieur
Beaucaire,” which has been turned into an
opera. Madge is as busy as even her
unquenchable energy likes. She is finishing
a successful touring concert season and
rehearsing for the new venture; between
whiles she finds time to sing for Australian
wounded in various homes and hospitals.
The ambitious girl was too impatient to
work out her scholarship: she deserted the
Royal College when her teacher, Plunket
Greene, left for active service, and joined
in the hustle for engagements. Esta D’Argo
and her husband have been fairy godparents
to the youngster, who came from the studio
of Sister Clare at our St. Vincent’s College.
The horrors of peace! The Tysons of
Croydon had four sons. Two went to the
war and are still alive. Of the two who
stayed at home, the eldest, a married man.
was thrown from his horse and killed a few
months ago. Within the last fortnight the
other, a schoolboy, was killed by a train.
The Joan of Arc committee meets on Fri-
days at 390 George-street. The kiddies of
fallen soldiers are its care; and just at pre-
sent it has Christmas in its eye.
No. 2 A.S.C. had a day in St. James’s
Hall last week, when Comforts Fund dames
(Mrs. Charlton presides over their meet-
ings) cleaned out visitors in the approved
fashion. 11. E. Budden did the preliminary
talk.
Miss Henderson repeats her thrilling call
to help the British Red Cross on November
30. The Sewing Guild (for the wounded)
which has a nook in the Town Hall cellars,
will knot its threads as the tale proceeds.
Don’t the shillings mount up! Doubtful
Thomasinas, w-ho think the small War
Saving Certificates not worth while, are
stunned to read that their total value so far
is about £3,000,000.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


p
Q LI
—
HP! M;
,*1*0 'j I
i
I1JM I
V J
ty-^4
i!
i D l
■■■■■■■
—
—
—
—
■ ■«JI. .— 1
mu
m
w l(
wmi.
m
!■■-.., ■■ II. I.
mwmm
k
1 11-1-1
• -•
*■*• ft
f!
-V
T
• •
Pft
• •••
%
ir
35U
5S AEOLIAN
VOCALION
is a wonderful instrument —
the g'reatest creator of enjoy-
ment the world has ever seen.
It sends the happy hours flying- merrily along, having always
ready a song of cheer, of courage, goodwill, sympathy and
inspiring sweetness. Always ready to bestow pleasure to
young and old without limit.
Thus it comes to make Xmas and its festive gatherings
merrier. The modern Xmas, a VOCALION XMAS, bring-
ing to you and yours every noted artist ready to perform at
your request with faultless excellence.
Hear this wonderful new instrument that supersedes the “ Old Time Gramophone. Let the Vocal ion’s
sweet voice be the story of its own achievement. Hear favorite records played as never before—richer,
finer, truly remarkable in musical quality.
Learn the fascination of varying each record, of shading each tone, of finding self-expression in music by
manipulating the ingenious Graduola the VOCALION tone controller.
There could be no more appropriate or pleasing Xmas Gift than the AEOLIAN VOCALION. As low as
/'9 will ouv it complete. Numerous well-designed 1 models to cnoose from. Convenient terms can
be arranged for payments of 20/- monthly. Gramophones accepted in part payment.
Send Us Th/s Coupon
and tcc will forward you full particulars of the \OCALIU}
JSarnc *
Address
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.,
“The Centre for the World’s Greatest Achievements
in Musical Instruments,”
384 George Street, SYDNEY. 252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
436 Queen Street, BRISBANE. Cr. Rundle St. 8 Gawler Place, ADELAIDE.
Also AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.


//ie
©u
rh
'* s \.
Carnage Paid.
m
m
m
?n\\w *
KNIVES THAT
NEITHER STAIN
NOR RUST
Henceforth the Knife-
cleaning Board can be
put up on a shelf —•
even high enough
“where time and dust
doth corrupt’’—for
stainless Cutlery is
with us—“ Come as a
boon and a blessing.”
Should the children use
them on acid
Fniits —if per-
chance they are
i left in vinegar,
they will not
stain or rust.
cshe
c/K/r
y
Rustless Stainless
Cutlery
Every Knife is Guaranteed.
TnBLE KNIVES:
50/- per dozen.
DESSERT KNIVES:
4n/- per dozen.
KirmerS
Me It Oman
I ▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
ISPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney •
Russell St., Melbourne. J
E. DROWN (§, SONS LONDON
AGE.NCJFS • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
COOL SUITS FOR
WARM DAYS at
BUCKLEY’S
Business
OR
Pleasure
I;'.
I
B29I.—“FLORIDA CLOTH” SUM-
MER SUITS. This neat, l'either-weight
wash fabric looks exactly like regular suitur?
material—tailors and holds its shape
well. Yet it washes without the slightest
sign of shrinkage or wrinkling. Made in ,AU
Sizes, in many attractive patterns.
PRICE 55/-
Also in Dark- and Mid-Grev Tropical Worsteds,
“CRAVENETTE” Showerproof finished, very
suitable for Business Wear. Price.*.. 100/-
ACCEPT OUR ASSURANCE that
ordering- by Mail is satisfactory
with Buckley’s.
Write for further particulars.
BUCKLEY S NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, November 19, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The big party of the week was given by
the Madden dame at Cliveden. Chief Jus-
tice John shed his horsehair and came home
to help her receive her guests in the after-
noon. The lounge was scenically effective
with huge masses of foxglove, and the
women’s frocks were as gaily colored as
tropical flowers, and much gayer than war
prospects at the moment. Lady Stanley
guested in an elaborate gown of rich old lace
over black velvet, and there were pink roses
on her broad black velvet hat. Lesley Madden
was quietly dressed in black, and little Mrs.
Guy was in white ninon. Mrs. R. J. David-
son sported ermines, and Mrs. Wharton was
in grey. Mrs. Tom White was belle of the
party in white flared silk and a turquoise
blue-green tulle choker. She carried tiny
posies in her hat and more in her hand.
(Women are wearing real flowers now in-
stead of the poor artificial affairs.) Miss
Minnie Madden, a sister of the host, attended,
and the Millers and Bowes Kellys were up to
time. Tea was a sumptuous affair in the
dining-room. Bananaland pianist Cahill
played, tenor Brookes sang and Wynne
Macoboy lifted up her voice and spread some
effective plumage on the dais.
Mrs. Barry Thompson gave a tea-party at
the Oriental on Wednesday as a thanks-
offering to the girls who helped her on Lucky
Bag Day. Some raffles were drawn. Pretty
little Mrs. Either, visiting from Adelaide,
won the Pauline peggy-bag, and Jack Dun-
lop won a kewpie the size of a XXX baby.
The Arts and Crafts want to show folk
how to weave and spin and make baskets.
Demonstrations are to be given on Thursday
and Friday at Clyde House. Take the lift.
Mrs. George Chirnside, our Best Dresser,
is very busy in London working for Billjims
who are prisoners in Germany. Daughter
Audrey is buzzing about London doing
errands in a large-powered car. Meanwhile
dad is seeing that the roof of Werribee Park
does not fall in.
Dan Seaton, owner of Westcourt, the Cup
winner, had quite a triumphal progress with
brother Bob down Collins-street last Satur-
day. Some people thought a circus was
approaching, but it was only the popular
young sports taking their car to the pier to
ship it home to Sydney before they caught
the express.
Mrs. Noyes. Mrs. Alex. McKinley, Mrs.
Ilornabrook. Mrs. J. S. MacDonald, Mrs. C.
Angel and Mrs. Rogers Thompson combined
forces for a big party at the Henry Noyes
Malvern home last Thursday. The hostesses
begged shamelessly for dolls and more dolls,
dolls’ clothes and dolls’ furniture. The plav-
things are wanted for the dolls’ court at the
Malvern Patriotic Fete on December 8.
Chilian Consul Barros has sent Mrs.
McKinley a black-eyed beauty dressed as a
Chilian belle with ’em all on for a meet.
Three-and-elevenpence-ha’penny was the
bargain price of tickets for the Hard Times
Ball which helped the Lucky Bag venture.
Mrs. Tallis and Jennie Brenan judged sets
and handed over prizes. Mrs. Robins wore
her oldest and most battered Jap kimono.
Mrs. Alawa Buchanan wrapped an old bag
round her waist and wore a cast-off coat of
hubby’s, Hubby was in blueys, very greasy
and crushed. Jimmy Dyer wore " a har-
vester’s smock, and his wife wrapped herself
in straw. Her ear-rings were made of flax-
string and berries. A prize set of pretty
girls were clothed in newspaper. Mrs.
Sellheim was there in a red cloak which
cost pounds; but assistant-sec. Dorotliv Low
danced in a whirl of tulle — a yard bar-
gain price but not weather-proof. Secretary
Burbank wore a worried look and a perfect
evening outfit. Mrs. Woolcott’s brocade sug-
gested great prosperity. The ball did not
attract a great crowd, but will add con-
siderably to the Lucky Bag funds, neverthe-
less. The balcony took gate money from
numerous watchex-s.
.Madame Fliche, the French Consul’s pretty
wife, passed out suddenly last week. She
had been in very delicate health and clung
to the hope that the Australian climate
might pull her through. Her last public
appearance was at the Federal Government
House investiture ceremony. Even in the
few months she had been here she made a
lot of friends to mourn with her husband.
The Hyamses and Mrs. George Lorimer
are working up the St. Kilda Palais de
Danse show in aid of the local Patriotic Car-
nival. Thursday, at St. Kilda, an im-
promptu dance will be given by the Hyamses
to aid the picture-swamped Palais.
After next week there will be no more
requests to buy a ticket in the St. Yincent’s
Miniature Picture Campaign. November 30
ends the selling.
The Green Ball, the yearly frivol of Mrs.
Green and daughter Florrie, will happen on
December 2 in the Town Hall. The money
for balcony seats goes to the patriotic funds.
The Lucky Bag Carnival workers (the
Carnival is still running, by the way)
renounced race-week at Flemington in order
to devote themselves to their job. The
hags were sold out early in the day in the
streets, and then the sales-girls took nameS
and addresses and further shillings for more.
At the Theatre Royal the Artists’ programme
hauled in £5OO. The Cafe Chantant at the
Savoy added more hundreds, and the raffle
girls at Menzies’ gathered £1 notes like
leaves in autumn from a pack of visiting
racing men. The loot is still being counted.
There is much mourning for Colin
Colahan’s brother .Tack —they are sons of
Surgeon-General Colahan —who has been
killed in France. Jack Colahan took Law,
while brother Colin took Medicine, and
was in liis fourth year when the call came.
He was wounded once, and hadn’t returned
to the Front long when he finished his Great
Adventure, aged 23. There’s a very young
widow mourning with the others.
Colonel Sid Sands, of Sydney, is being
released from a second term of hospital this
week. The poor little Colonel began with
what the doctors cheerfully called “an ex-
ploratory operation,” and later was put
through all the newest ordeals.
Colonel Bob Owen, of your side, who was
decorated by the G.-G. a week or so back, is
a sorrowful man. His only boy has been
killed in action.
Pretty little dancing Molly Locke is a
widow, her soldier husband having gone
down in the good fight. Sergeant Reg
Corder was the eldest son of the big deco-
ration firm of Corder and Sons.
Captain Guy Madden has got as far as
Salisbury. He is training Australians on
the bleak plain.
The 6th Infantry Comforts people have
arranged a lecture at the Masonic Hall on
November 27. Lieutenant Craig will talk
about his experiences with that lot in Gal-
lipoli and Egypt.
Young Ned Stevens, only child of Henry
Berry’s managing director, is being mourned
for. He got away very early as lieutenant,
and, after being discharged as unfit, enlisted
in the British army and got his third star
in the trenches. Seven times was he
wounded, in addition to being buried alive
by a shell, gassed and sent to hospital with
•trench feet. This year he got back into
Australian khaki as lieutenant. Refusing
a health trip home because he knew every
man was needed in the line, he stayed and
saw it out till the end. A little Titian-haired
fiancee, Edie Lockley, shares his parents’
grief.
All Carisbrook mourned last week when
the town flags were half-masted for two
Evans boys, killed in France. The brothers,
aged 20 and 24, were most popular.
And here’s another double bereavement.
Reg and Bert Le Roux, sons of a popular
Lang Lang resident, have fallen in France.
Reg, who left a pastoralist’s job and the
presidency of the local Agricultural Society,
tired his last shot just seven days before a
German shell slew younger brother Bert,
one time a clerk in the National Bank.
Miss Adelaide’s tidings :
The efforts for the French Red Cross culminated in
a Button Day On Friday, under the auspices of
divine weather. One of the items was a children’s
fete on Parliament House lawn, where a committee
under the leadership of # Mrs. Teesdale Smith and
Mrs. Albion Tolley arranged displays of folk-
dancing, gymnastics and fancy-dress competitions.
In the streets there were the usual stalls, auction
sales and concerts, and a parade of troops, to which
a party of French naval men lent eclat—Eclat’s the
word. The sale of buttons alone brought in £2300.
Amongst the preliminaries were a cafe chantant
at the Grand Central on Monday, and a French Red
Cross concert at the Queen’s Hall on Wednesday.
For the chantant tables were booked days in advance,
and the place was crowded long before Lady Munro
Ferguson and Lady Galway sailed in at three o’clock.
Sydney Hollister’s Pierrots and members of the “Very
Good Eddie” Co. built up the programme, with
Mrs. A. M. Cudmore and Mrs. Stanley Skipper as
general organisers. Mrs. Teesdale Smith and Miss
Dorothy Deeley organised the concert at the Queen’s,
where children’s dances by Miss Deeley’s pupils were
interspersed with songs by Muriel Cheek and Muriel
Day, and ’cello and violin playing by Harold Par-
sons and Sylvia Whitington. The star item was
the “Marseillaise” tableau, wherein the J. W. Bake-
wells’ good-looking daughter Valerie held the stage.
Other patriotic efforts of the week were a carnival
in aid of Cheer-Up funds at Seacliffe, a Red Cross
concert arranged by Irene Kemp, and a fete by the
Bth Machine Gun Trench Comforts Fund at A ic-
toria Park. Miss Kemp, helped by Clara Serena,
Roy Mellish and William Silver (her teacher), gave
an excellent account of herself as a pianiste, and
was nearly smothered in floral applause.
The Red Cross Gala Revue has been definitely
fixed for November 30. The affair has been
threatened with vice-regal patronage, and leading
amateurs have been roped in to chance their luck.
The roll grows sadly long. Lieut. W. R. Hawkes,
second son of the W. G. Hawkeses of Koonoona sta-
tion, has been killed. He was badly wounded at
Gallipoli and again on the Somme. T. R. Hogarth,
eldest son of the late William Hogarth, is dead of
wounds in Palestine. Hugh Kelly, youngest son of
Robert Kelly, formerly of the Land Board, has fallen.
Sgt. A. A. Jacobs, once of the Register’s literary
staff, will never write again. He was at Gallipoli,
was wounded, invalided home, and, re-enlisting, sailed
to France.
The Forestry Conference has taken the Minister of
Education and Mrs. Stjdes to Perth. They left by
the train that took George V.’s principal deputies in
Australia on a fortnight's visit to W.A.
Lieut. F. M. Cutlack was recently married to an
English girl, Miss Dunlop. He is the eldest son of
the F. W. Cutlacks of Renmark, and has been in
the thick of the war since its very early days.
Some of his pen pictures are amongst the most vivid
that Australia has read.
His Ex. Galway has suddenly fallen foul of the
statuary in the Botanic Gardens, which pulls down
the average of the city’s exhibits, and ought to be
objected to on anatomical grounds if no other. The
east-s were mostly brought in by the German element
in 1867, it seems, and in those mid-Victorian days
were considered really fine works of art.
News come from Erin of the pending
marriage of Sir Michael O’Loghlen, and
serves to give many St. Ivilda girls a bitter
and remorseful feeling. Sir Michael O’Logli-
len, Bart., H.M.L., of Drumconora, County
Clare, was simple Mick O’Loghlen, of St.
Kilda, not so very long ago—a small, plain
Irish-Australian supposed to be studying
law, but giving much more time to drifting
round on the sea-sands, keeping dates with
the one and only girl. There was always a
one-and-only at a time, but there were many
of them in the course of 12 months, and they
all said “No” to little Mickie, for Bryan
O’Loghlen was then out of politics and
lamentably unfinancial. Then the death of a
brother made plain Bryan Sir Bryan. Sir
Bryan died, and Mickie was Sir Michael.
But Sir Michael was still as unfinancial as
ever, so more than one St. Kilda girl seized
the chance of refusing a title. Then General
Ireton. an uncle, left Sir Michael £60.000 to
help him sustain the dignity of his position.
Thereupon Sir Michael went to Ireland,
where he got an office worth £2OOO a year, and
now Sir Michael O’Loghlen, Bart., H.M.L.,
of Drumconora, Clare, is marrying Beatrice,
only daughter of Sir Michael Murphy, Bart.,
of Wyckham, Dundrum, Dublin.
Melba has cabled to Stella Power to hurry
to New York, where golden contracts and
bouquets are said to be awaiting hei\ The
canary is flying by the next boat, and there
will be a farewell chirp at the Town Hall
next Monday night. Information at Allan’s.
Mary Campbell, her teacher, is to go across
with Stella Power.
The Dolores concert is to happen—at last!
—on November 24.
Tenor Cappelli had a crowded Town Hall
concert on Saturday night. He was in great
form, but shared the honors equally with
Cacialli, the bass with the tremendous range.
Cappelli also introduced his wife. She is a
lady of substance who stands very quietly
on the platform awaiting the moment to
begin, and then almost overwhelms her audi-
ence with the sudden tumult of song. She
was robed in shell pink hitched up at one
side with a coquettish rosette, and her arms
were “half concealed and half revealed” by
great pink wings of tulle. Tarezznski played
some violin solos, and Louise Gargurevich
smote the piano. Billy Burrell accompanied
the others at the piano. The programme
was stretched by encores to 11 o’clock.
Cahill and Brookes made a sassiety boom '
of their concert. Cahill is a Bananaland
pianist and Brookes a one-time baritone who
lias become a tenor and lightens his clas-
sical programme with popular ballads. Their
Concert in the Auditorium was crowded in
spite of a cloudburst or something almost
as bad. Mrs. Staughton and Mrs. Davidson
received the audience and had beautiful sas-
siety damsels to show people to their seats.
John Madden sat through the whole show.
Ilis wife was there with Mrs. Haughton
her visiting friend from Sydnev. Mrs. Harrv
Lmmerton led a big party. There was a
scramble for the artists after the concert,
and they were invited to two swaggah sup-
per parties at the Alexandra Club. Mrs.
Lmmerton entertained the Bananaland
Grooms to meet the boy, and the widow
Staughton had a huge supper party in
another room. Mrs. Staughton had the
Maddens. Weedons, Stapleys. Hennessvs and
\\ nartons.
Dr. Ryan is congratulating himself on
what promises to be a highly successful
operation on the eyes of poor young tenor
Lois. The popular singer now line i,
recovering his sight after black mSSh*
agony Lois sheds tears for his p“o? rVv
Ihe Germans are now in the
Padua, Ins home city. ® lou of
The State Excellency took her
behaved brood along to the King’s fn. fi 1 '
final night of “Hamlet.” They ocemSL 16
managerial box and thoroughly enX? 16
Ghost and the berlud of the last act the
Jennie Brenan has bolted ov«r to
to meet Mrs. Hugh Ward, whoCm/£
the U.S.A. very soon now. om
Mrs. Tallis and Florrie Young are in „„
grief over the sudden death of their ££B
niece. The child was also Florrie Young
She was carried off to Fni’-fieia t T " n &-
with diphtheria on Monday r nightof™
week and died the next morning. ast
4 lie Barnet Glass Co. is issuing colored
boards of a new parlor game, “Across An s
traha, a fine ad. for the firm’s rubber tyres
Ihe trouble is that dice and a “thrower”
necessary tools, and just now there are ,
dice or throwers on the market.
A one-time Melbourne beauty, diminutive
Oxley Manners, turned up again for the Cud
laces. She is now Mrs. Mannix—no rein
ti°n of the talking archbishop. Oxlev w hn
used to run a beauty shop, still has her good
looks, slightly mellowed by time.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


**% •§i /^i!ißP-
ggsr
mmm*
1
83
«
General Foch
KLJBEBI
Copyright Watson’s No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Foch is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, General Sir W. Bird wood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter L, General Sarrail, General Brussiloff, General
Russky, will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or 12 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD,, 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ipf ( i
m
cx mo
w
7t 'h'tfl
i %..
J
a®®
""';/////////////////////////////'*
WRMmMfRm
■
//ft
M o | o
it // """,,„„S/J'


THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital (50,000 £lO Shares)
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
Reserve Liability of Proprietors
Total Capital and Reserves
£1,500,000
500,000
£400,000
58,182
510,000
£998,182
WILLIAM
Hon. Sir ALBERT J. GOULD, K.B.
Hon. THOS. WADDELL, M.L.C.
Auditors: JOHN WAUGH, T. B. FRITH.
Chief Inspector: WM. CLARKE.
Chairman.
A. A. C. COCKS. M.L.A.
H. C. L. ANDERSON, M.A.
Acting General Manager: J. S. MARKS.
Secretary; R. T. MOODIE.
Solicitors ■■ Messrs. LEIBIUS, BLACK & WAY.
Accountant: 3. E. MACKINTOSH.
Directors:
DIXSON,
HEAD OFFICE: 166 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
45 Branches and Agencies in New South Wales. Agents in New Zealand and Fiji: The Bank of New
Zealand: Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia: The National Bank of \ustralasia Ltd •
Queensland: The Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Drafts drawn on and cable remittances made direct to Foreign Places. Letters of Credit issued
negotiable throughout the world. Foreign Bills negotiated 'and collected. Drafts issued on San
Francisco and New York in dollars or sterling.
King George IV
iUn
I*l
the TOP NOTCH scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE RETORT AMBIGUOUS.
MAY: “What do you think? Bothy proposed to me last night, and he teas drunk .
again !”
CISSIE : "Go on! was he really? He doesn't know what an ass he makes of himself."
“H.T.” : Literary appreciation used to be
surprisingly keen in the New Australia settlement
in Paraguay, but it wasn’t for its literary charm
that the Cosme women rushed The Bulletin’s Red
Page. Boiling water poured on the cover and
treated with a little starch gave a dye for a blouse
that lasted all right till the next washing day and
helped to give variety to the evening dance or
“opera.” (Cosine singers got to be great on operas.)
A favorite dodge with the women —especially in the
early days when the dancing floor was in the open
and the lights were those of the stars —was to pin
fireflies in their hair. This was done without pierc-
ing the insect or injuring his lights. The Paraguayan
firefly is a beetle so constructed that a hairpin can
be slipped between the hard shell covering of the
thorax and the abdomen without seemingly hurting
the bicho. The lights of the fly are much more
brilliant than those of its Queensland prototype
(with which I have recently made acquaintance), and
I have known half a dozen in a pickle-bottle serve
to read by.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The N. S. Wales Government is
patching up the Bird Protection Act, but what wall
be the use of the new measure while the poison-oart
is continuously operating? The effort to vanquish
bunny has spread devastation throughout the country.
Birds picked up the phosphorus baits or drank water
that had been poisoned and succumbed in thousands,
w’hile year by year, with the disappearance of their
natural enemies, more species of insects become
troublesome and the common pests more numerous.
The destruction of bird life means the ultimate
destruction of all land life, for science can furnish
no efficient substitute for insectivorous birds. Herds
and crops all owe their existence to the services of
the feathered police, which keep down the myriads
of insects, scale and other nightmares that would
otherwise overcome the man on the land. It has
been calculated by scientists that if birds were
completely exterminated, all life on the earth, both
vegetable and animal, would come to an end within
the short period of nine years. The rabbit is good
food, but caterpillars, flies and grasshoppers are
unmarketable plagues, and a hundred times more
difficult to deal with than the cottontails. The blame
for most of the curses upon the Australian landscape
is the big squatter, who has more land than he can
look after and won’t spend money on it in the
proper way.
* * * *
“Galenon”: A few medicoes have just
awakened to the fact that we have some Australian
diseases as worthy of study as the imported guinea-
catchers. Barcoo-rot and Bareoo-spew, alias Bel-
yando spew, have come so far under notice as to be
pushed into the Medical Journal. AVill any Abo-
liar inform me (1) if he ever got Barcoo-rot when
on decent tucker; (2) if he was ever attacked by
Barcoo-spew when the flies were not bad ; (3) of the
geographical limits of the diseases; (4) of a “sudden-
death” cure for either complaint. I once cured a
man by repeated nips of whisky. Result: my income-
tax doubled next year.
* *' * *
“Quart”: Can any Australian coachdriver
crack a whip at this? R. Thompson, who lately
gave up the job of driving the mail-coach between
Moss Vale and Nowra (N.S.W.)—a 36-mile run—was
on the box seat over 40 years, and during that time
trundled 436,800 miles without any loss of mail or
injury to a passenger.
COULDN'T BE DID.
ABE: “I vant a man to deliver handbills. Vant the job?”
Gentleman of Leisure : “ ’Ow much?”
ABE: “I’ll pay you vat you’re vorth.”
GENTLEMAN: “No good ter me!”
“Spreader” : Allow me to present the most
popular of the old-time bush “chanteys” (air, “I Met
Her in the Garden Where the Irish Praties Grew”) :
We ’ad rolev poley
An’ Irish stoo,
An’ ’ashma gandy
On ther Bar coo.
There are several parodies on it, but they’re all too
scalding to handle.
* * * *
“Mowri” : Re the muddlement about “tea-
tree” and “ti-tree.” Ti-tree is wrong; it is simply
an illiteracy. What is known in Maoriland by these
names is the manuka ( Leptrospermum scoparium),
which may not unreasonably be called tea-tree
because an infusion of the leaves produces what
under necessity might be called tea. The name
tea-tree no doubt came from N. S. Wales to M.L.,
where, through ignorance, it haß been corrupted
into ti-tree. The mistake is probably due to con-
fusion with the Maori ti ( Cordyline australis'),
commonly called cabbage-tree, and pronounced “tea”
or “tee.”
* • • •
“McNorth”: The most wicked parrot of
mv acquaintance was the property of Janet O’Brown,
an Out West licensee. When I arrived at Janet’s
pub, wearied and depressed after a long day spent in
coaxing an unwilling pair of horses attached to a buck-
board through miles of sticky mud, cocky hopped out
into the road and remarked: “Well, you’re an ugly
- ——, anyhow ! ” Then, dodging my angry foot, he
asked: “What about a snifter?” During my
stay I had ample opportunities of noticing that this
unlovely hardcase habitually punetuated his conver-
sation with lurid adjectives. Janet professed igno-
rance of the reason. “I'm if I know how the
thing learnt to swear,” she said.
* * * »
“Y.Z.”: Gair and Evans had lived together
in a weatherboard skillion at the Piper for at least
11 years, and when the partnership was broken up I
felt so curious that an interview with Gair, who
remained in possession of the skillion and the traps
and ware, speedily followed. “It’s that there Don,”
Gair explained. “He wanted t’ borrer a horse to
throw the ole ’possum-rug across.” I then gathered
that you throw a ’possum-rug over a horse, and leave
it there, when you want to free it of fleas. Gair
continued under pressure: “I wouldn’t throw the rug
over no horse, ’n’ Don got out. I duimo where he’s
gone, ’n’ I don’t care.” I was not content. Why
should Gair object to throw the ’possum-rug over a
horse, assuming that there was a horse available?
Eventually Gair made a clean breast of it. “Well,”
he said, “Don was a reg’lar dam’ ’ermit, but to tell
Gor struth, I’m fond of a bit of company.” Gair
retains the rug, and, incidentally, his bit of company.
“Cina-tabu-Cagi” : Maundrai, or Fijian
native-bread, is the very thing I’d like to feed the
Kaiser and his whelp on. It is made from a hash
of taro, yam, sweet-potato, etc., plus ?, ?, wrapped
in banana leaves and buried in a shallow hole
for weeks and weeks, so that the vieinity is poisoned.
Then Tui digs it up and devours it with relish.
Its odor beats that of over-ripe Gorgonzola, and it
has the unhappy knack of clinging for hours to the
unaccustomed olfactory organs of whiteman papa-
lagi. But Tui had other delicacies. I have just
returned from the Ra province, noteworthy for its
dark traditions. In these parts as well as other
places in the Viti group the chiefs ate their
INCOMPETENTS.
“Them ’ere doctors ain’t a bit of good. my
dear. I’ve bin to a dozen of ’em, on'
they all said there wuzn’t anythink th'
matter with me.”
acquaintances as well as their foes. At Raki Raki
a flesh-devouring rascal used to keep an ample
supply of “long pig” salted down in an old sea-
ehest. His enemies he cooked, and thereby freed
their flesh from the contamination of evil spirits,
but his friends and playmates savored best when
raw.
(Continued on page 24.)
FADDY-THE-RAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Paddy-the-Ram was a cankered spud and he was
a matured egg,
With a leg that went straight as a kg might go, and
a sort of a circular leg.
He worked his way with his shoulder blades, and his
turret would sometimes jamb;
And he screwed his dial at every step; and that
was Paddy-the-Ram.
He’d shout for himself and he’d bum for beer, and
tobacco he’d seldom buy,
But Paddy-the-Ram was the Only Joke in the town-
ship of Blankydry.
He’d shake his stick and he’d snort contempt and
his mildest word was damn,
Till the constable as a last resource would lock up
' Paddy-the-Ram.
The folks had gathered one day in force to watch the
train go through,
As they mostly do in the country towns (it’s the only
thing to do),
"When the Constable’s toddler fell on the line, per-
haps because of the cram;
And no one thought of the special train, and none
saw Paddy-the-Ram.
But a figure leapt from the platform's edge, at the
mother’s piercing cry,
And snatched the child from between the rails as the
special thundered by.
“Who is the hero ?” the people cried, and they saw
it was Wilson’s Sam—
The grocer’s son of the blameless life. And it wasn’t
Paddy-the-Ram.
’Twas the parson’s daughter who slipped one day on
the treacherous river bank ;
And the townsfolk watched, with their faces grey,
while twice in the stream she sank.
But a swimmer clutched at her long wet hair and he
towed her safe to the dam.
’Twas the draper’s assistant who went to church.
And it wasn’t Paddy-the-Ram.
No. I can’t make a hero of Paddy-the-Ram, though
Paddy-the-Ram is dead,
And a constable wrote in his pocketbook the very
last words he said:
His views were large, but he died in charge, and he
died in a Sydney tram
Of rum and whisky and beer and bash —and he
finished Paddy-the-Ram.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


INDISPENSABLE
Motor Lunch Kits
8 Guineas at David Jones’
l
'i > l
David Jones’ Motor Lunch Kits are designed like a suit-case, and in this
respect are a great improvement over the usual unsightly and cumber-
some hamper. Economy in space and durability are the salient features,
and the kits are practically dust-proof.
Food boxes are of liberal dimensions, cutlery is of high grade, enamel-
ware can be depended on not to chip unless very roughly handled, and
liquid retainers are the best procurable, guaranteed to keep liquids
piping hot or icy cold for 48 hours.
Specification.—Case has three-ply veneer foundation, covered black
enamel waterproof canvas, lined washable check lining, 8 leather-capped
corners, leather handle, sliding-nozzle lever lock. Six each silver-plated
knives, forks and spoons; six best enamel cups and plates; one food
tin in two compartments, salt and pepper shaker, preserve jar and two
highest-quality vacuum flasks.
Size: 21 x 15 x 6 inches. Price, 8 Guineas.
Other Qualities—6 Guineas, 10 Guineas, 11 Guineas, 13i Guineas.
We Pay Carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD.
OPP. G.P.O. SYDN EY.
on TflE SAME DAY
T/iEY ARE MAD.
No Higher-grade Choco
lates produced
anywhere.
We are the actual manufac-
turers, and we distribute our
Chocolates direct. It is, there-
fore, impossible to buy stale
“Hillier” Chocolates.
Guaranteed under the Pure
Food Act, Serial 1667.
Packed only in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/-, 6/6,
10/6, 15/-, 25/-
POST FREE
to any address in Australia.
4 !t
•»** ' k
• 4
' S ’
m
m
m.)
1 B
m.
f«§Sl§ra
-
.
i a v <s§§
■Hi
*os. ■ ( : * •*
• • 3
mm
-
a
a * •..
.
: -
g>
ft
Judhpore Riding Trousers, Breeches,
Working Trousers, etc.
Leather Tweed Work-
ing Trousers. —in dark-
GREY effects. Holeproof and
practically indestructible.
Made with Denim pockets;
Riveted Buttons, and non-split-
ting seat seam. Sizes S to 7.
Price 15/6.
Cross sizes and Stockman’s
Cut, for Riding, 17/6.
Australian Tweed
T r o u s ers. Splendidly
tailored in hard-wearing
Medium Grey All-Wool Tweeds.
Made with side-pockets; cuff
bottoms. Sizes 3 to 7.
12/6, 15/6, 15/6.
C2l.—Judhpore Riding
Trousers. Ready-to-wear.
In hard-wearing Garbinette of
Dark Stone shade. Exact in
style to illustration, with Fob
and Cross Pockets. Belt loops
at sides. This popular style
combines the design of Riding
Breeches and Trousers —thus
dispensing with the wearing
of Leggings. Sizes 3 to 7.
15/6.
Riding Breeches.—
Laced at knees; self-strapped.
In Dark Stone-colored Garbi-
nette. Sizes 3 to 7.
15/6.
i
J
C2O
C2I
C2o. — Riding Breeches—Tailored to Order. —In Khaki Military Drill, 21/-;
Khaki Military Drill Cord or Canton Mole, 27/6; Whipcord, 50/-; Bedford Cord, 50/-
(Self-strapped, 5/- extra).
C2l. — Judhpores Tailored to Order. —In Khaki Drill, 21/-; Canton Moleskin,
27/6; Mole or Khaki Drill Cord, 27/6; West of England Saddle Tweed and White or Cream
Bedford Cord, 45/- (Self-strapped, 5/- extra).
Riding Trousers—Tailored to Order. —in Khaki Drill, 17/6; Khaki Drill Cord,
20/-; Canton Mole, 22/6; Twist Tweeds, 37/6; Bedford Cord, 40/- (Self-strapped, 5/-
extra.)
Ask for FREE SAMPLES, TAPE & CHART.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
§ ™
Leviathan
MELBOURNE
KMNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
12=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/- each
N.Z. from 3/6
yf Records 4y
from
5/-each
N.Z. from 5/6.
COLUMBIA SUPPLEMENT No. 28 NOW ON SALE.
COLUMBIA RECORDS AT PRE-WAR PRICES.
Exclusive Columbia Records of “ FLYIN G COLOURS
By the Original Artists.
DOUBLE-SIDED 12-inch Records, 5/- each.
99
L 1127
“Flying Colours” Selection.
In 2 Parts (W. F. Peters)
London Hippodrome Orchestra
(Conducted by Julian Jones)
Introducing: Part I—Millinery; Venus; Follow Me, Girls; Waltz from Opening
Chorus; Carnival Time. Part 2—Dutch Dance; Poodle; Brown Eyes; Rag,
lill2B
Venus: from “Flying Colours” (De Courville, Pink & Peters)
(Whistling by Miss Marie Spink) Dorothy Ward and Chorus
Carnival Time: from “Flying Colours” (De Courville, Pink & Peters)
Dorothy Ward & Chorus
1,1129
Bairnsfatherland (The Johnson ’Ole) from “Flying Colours.” In 2 Parts.
(Bruce Bdirnsfather and B. Macdonald Hastings) London Hippodrome Co.
(Including John Humphries, Chas. Berkeley, E. Ellis & Eric Cowley)
DOUBLE-SIDED 10-inch Records, 3/- each.
sssia
f Ras Rae Rag: from “Flying Colours” (De Courville, Pink & Peters)
) ’ Dorothy Ward & Chorus
[ Ladder of Roses: from “Razzle-Dazzle” (Burnside & Hubble))
Dorothy Ward, Soprano
D 1356
Arizona: from “Plying Colours” (Heard & Gideon)
Melville J. Gideon, Baritone
I’m a Lonesome Melody (Young & Meyer), Melville J. Gideon, Baritone
(Piano Improvisation played by Melville Gideon).
Vocal Records (except No. L 1129) with Orchestral accompaniment.
THE HITS OF THE DAY.
A Sparkling Record by G. H. ELLIOTT, the Chocolate-colored Coon.
DOUBLE-SIDED 10-inch Record, 3/-
2786
It’s a Long, Long Way to My Home in Kentucky (Grey i
You’d Never Know that Old Home-town of Mine (Johnsor
Ayer)
& Donaldson)
Two of the brightest successes of the moment, sung in snlendid style by that
arch-favorite, G. H. Elliott, supported by a strong chorus. The “chocolate-colored
coon” in this record will add much to the brighter side of the music of these days.
THEODORE &. CO.** and “HIGH JINKS.’*
DOUBLE-SIDED 10-inch Records, 3/- each.
2734
[THEODORE & CO:
j THEODORE & CO.
Any Old Where (Clifford Grey & Ivor Novello)
>ly Friend John (Clifford Grey & Ivor Novello)
Stewart Morton, Baritone
2735
(HIGH JINKS: Gove’s Own Kiss Mabel Lee & Quartette
{ HIGH JINKS: The Bubble (Hartley & Freeman) Mabel Lee, Soprano
SONGS THE BOYS ARE SINGING,
DOUBLE-SIDED 10-inch Record, 3/-
2733
t There’s a Ship that’s Bound for Blighty (David & Shirley)
Wilmer Dixon, Baritone.
When You’re a Dong, Dong W T ay from Home (Meyer), Henry Burr, Tenor.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Etd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
AD El. AIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
MEGGITTS
linseed oiimEAL
MEC,
PAR™.
t-.'Jr'
m.
/
SS
\
<\l! /
l V
X
\*A
\
W,
$*
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal
Greatest Food for
Stocß in the World.
TESTIMONY OF SATISFIED FARMERS.
Mr s r hpvvv n SERIES NO. 8.
it for calves a'nd find it ’r^arkably^ood.” 6 SeUd ai ‘° ther t0R ° f Linsced 0U MeaL 1 anl using
nothing that 1 cal as l bel j ever J 1 } Li »seed Oil Meal. I know of
out supplies. It possesses oualitips thaf 1 stock food, and no dairy or other farmer should be with-
cine; it gives a dean skin a d tins v ° Ut alone : U I <5 uote a your stock requires no medi-
greatest acquisition for stock hi thfwnrH ’ f. lves . a . richer fl °w of milk. Linseed Oil Meal is the
Shorthorn, Durham and Guernsev and Jersey possess . es b '° nle °{ the milking strain of
another ton of Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal!” " W d ’ d "® glve them the best '• hence our order for
HOW TO FEED COWS WITH MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
.ea\e your hay ration as it is and give 31b. Linseed Meal and 31b. of bran per day, soaked or dry.
From all Stores, or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane;
R f m * ay Pty Ltd - Melbourne; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston
and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT
LTD.,
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
26 King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Quondong”: Assure “Lance Jack” (B.
18/10/’l7) from me that the flying-fish does not flap
his wings as a means of flight. He shoots out of the
ihriny at a speed of something over 50 miles an
hour and at an angle of 15 degrees. He then planes
on a declination of about 1 in 5000 until his
momentum peters out, whereat he falls into his ele-
ment as limp as a jelly in Tophet.
“T. aquila”: Can any Abornitkologist ex-
plain the purpose of the sac under the throat of
the male frigate-bird? It cannot be connected
with flight powers, for the female bird does not
own one, and she is quite as powerful 'an aviator
as her husband. It seems to possess no aperture
for admitting air, but the bird can inflate it at
will, and often does so when suddenly frightened. It
also seems to be inflated when the bird soars. The
frigate-bird's honesty is a negative quality, and his
attitude towards those respectable citizens the gan-
nets is strongly reminiscent of Prussia. As they
lumber home to their families, comfortably full of
assorted fish —so full, sometimes, that the tail of
the last fish is sticking out of the owner’s beak —
there descends from high heaven a streak of light-
ning with a forked tail, which fetches the respectable
gannet a clout on the back of the head. Before the
stars have cleared away, the gannet finds that a pair
of huge wings are overhead and a sharp beak
threatening him. In order to get out of so un-
healthy a neighborhood without delay he jettisons
his cargo—“musters his bag,” as Navy Jack puts
it. The frigate-bird, possessing no delicate ideas
as to who should eat first, catches the cargo neatly
in the air and retires to devour it. Occasionally
it gets its meals more honestly by catching ffying-
fish, though as a general practice it steals them. But,
as the French say, to be beautiful it is necessary to
suffer, and the frigate-bird is very beautiful. The
gannets do the suffering.
* * * *
“Mrs. Lance Lawson” : I notice that many
writers allude to all aboriginal women as lubras,
whereas a lubra is a young gin before she takes a
mate. Most Queensland tribes score the backs of the
lubras when of marriageable age. One N. S. Wales
tribe used to cut off the first joint of the little finger
of the left hand. Incidentally, when a gin’s married I
have heard it claimed that the abos. have a strong
moral sense, but I never saw anything of it in my
time. Indeed, I would say that, as a rule, they are
frankly unmoral. Also, they were cannibals when
they were hungry or when opportunity served. I
have known the old gins to cook and eat the hands
and feet of an infant killed by the men because it
disturbed their peace, but they would very rarely
admit that they ate man. In the early days of the
Palmer goldfield dozens of Chinamen packers were
killed and eaten by the aboriginals. The tale goes
that the Chow nackers paid old Christy Palmerston
AN OVERSIGHT.
NEAR-SIGHTED LOCAL PRAICHER: “'And
Moses went up into the mountain and
he spake, saying: "Scuse me, C’rishun
friends, I've come away without me
glasses.”
a very fair income to protect them from the blacks,
by whom he was much feared (or respected). But
in spite of his influence many an unfortunate Chinkie
was caught and masticated. There used to be an
old abo. about Kingsborough who for a considera-
tion would give very realistic exhibitions of the way
the menu wriggled and protested when put upon the
fire.
REASSURING.
IRATE CUSTOMER: “Here, te careful with that razor — you'll cut me!”
CASUAL ASSISTANT ( cheerily ): “Not with this razor, sir.”
“Nym”: The fishermen of Echuca (Vic.)
lately ’ gathered round three dead exhibits and argued
about them until decay set in. The things were
brought home from the Goulburn Weir as eels, but
the Echuca codhaulers guessed they were a kind
of native lamprey. Instead of having the snake-
like mouth of the ordinary eel, the Goulburn ser-
pents, which were about 15in. long, had a long
lower jaw, armed with two sharp, fang-like teeth.
If the specimens really belonged to the eel species
it discounts the old theory that eels do not wriggle
north of the North Dividing Range.
*****
“Kola”: I knew old Jack Burgess well
when he w-as at Wilcannia about ’3O years ago. He
was the recognised cattle “crosser” there, his plant
consisting of his horse Tomtit, and a heifer and a calf
that he used as decoys. It used to be his boast that
he had crossed thousands of beasts without losing one.
I believe the bit of blow was correct,
too. I once got him to pilot a mob I
was in charge of. One of my bullocks
was sick, and I told Jack that it didn’t
matter what happened to it. But the
stockman’s professional pride was
roused, and he declared that he’d get
the blanker over safely. And he did.
He rode Tomtit into the Darling, and
collaring the sick beast round the neck
he lifted its head on to his saddle and
swain over with it. There was a
superior-looking newchum with a small
mob waiting to cross the other way.
Jack asked him if he wanted a hand.
“Aw, how much?” said Clarence.
“Pound a hundred,” replied Jack. “Aw-,
no. I’ve got no pounds to throw-
away.” Jack got his decoys together
and rode off while the newchum got
his little lot together and put them in
the river. But when they got into the
centre of the stream something went
wrong and they started to ring.
Clarence roared and cracked his whip,
but the show wouldn’t straighten out, and 42 head
were lost. They were worth about £5 each.
* * * *
“Te Whare”: Excluding the parrot or
cockatoo tribe I enter the follow-ing Australians in the
beauty competition: Rifle bird (our only bird of
paradise), regent bird (adult male), blue wren (his
missus doesn’t count, neither do the young males),
•shrike-tit, nankeen night-heron, dollar-bird, bee-
eater (a harmony in delicate browns, pale-blue, green
and chestnut), rose-breasted robin (a rare scrub-
dweller), plumed egret, azure kingfisher, male lyre-
bird, and cardinal honey-eater, or “blood-bird.”
Beauty of form, not coloring alone, should count.
For the six handsomest parrots I plump for the
mallee parrot, crimson ditto, budgereegar (warbling
grass parrot), ground parrot (new very rare), yellow
parrot or “Murray smoker” (also rare), and king
parrot. Of the cockatoos I think the gang-gang,
galah (rose-breasted cockatoo) and the pink (or
Leadbeater’s) cockatoo have most use for a mirror.
I have seen a dwarf gum so crowded with scarlet-
crested gang-gangs (they were feeding on the seeds)
that it resembled a gorgeous and overgrown rose-
bush in full bloom. If these birds are resting on
the soft, yielding foliage of the wild willow their
delicate grey body-plumage and scarlet crests are
thrown out in strong relief, and their beauty of
coloring greatly enhanced.
“One Who Helped” : Last month at Mildura
railway- yards we loaded 12 trucks of sheep (ewes
and lambs). We started at six o’clock and by
seven o’clock the engine took away the lot. Know
if this time has been equalled?
* * * *
“Cole”: If “Eloc” (B. 18/10/T7) expects
anybody who knows camels to believe that yarn about
an Afghan riding from Beltana station to the doctor,
150 miles away, and back in two days he’s an opti-
mistic lad. I had some years of experience of
camel riding in the Far North and on the west
coast of South Aus., and the most I ever got out of
the steed was about 45 miles in a day of 13 or 14
hours. The best one-day journeys I ever heard of
being done by a riding camel varied from 60 to 75
miles.
* * * *
“Black Bonnet”: Soon after I came north
eight years ago I lost many valuable dogs by tick
poison. One Bananalander told me to kill the tick
by inverting a tiny bottle of kerosene over it for a
minute, then to administer baking-soda to induce
vomiting. No use. Another man advised kero-
sene, then castor-oil, or a strong dose of turpentine.
No good again. The “cures” only added to the
dogs agonies. Now I kerosene the tick and admin-
ister several quinine tabloids at intervals, quantity
varying from two to four sgr. pills, and this treat-
ment has failed only in one case, when the tick
had been in the dog too long before discovery. The
tick poison makes a dog vomit, and then takes away
the use of the hindquarters, and the poor brute
gradually becomes helpless, dying, as a rule, in two
days. I think there should be a sure and simple
cure, by injection, and, like “V.,” I wonder that
one has not been found by the chemists. These scrub
ticks (there are many varieties) are most dangerous
and poisonous to human beings also. I have had
experience of several cases of serious illness arising
from them. The patient begins with shivering fits
and apparently every symptom of fever, and recoverv
doesn’t begin until the pest has been discovered
and destroyed. There is a big brown tick attack-
ing and killing the pigs in the scrub out of Cook-
town just now. It is as big as a haricot bean. A
specimen was sent at the beginning of the year
to the proper quarter, with a request for informa-
tion, but beyond intimation of its safe arrival we
have heard nothing.
“McNorth”: Until recently a form of
mummification was practised on Murray Island,
Torres Strait. The departed was first placed on a
platform of sticks and leaves for a week or two.
Then the viscera was removed and the remains taken
to the sea and submerged for a week or two more.
(It is to be supposed that precautions were taken
against crocodiles and sharks.) When sufficiently
macerated the skin was scraped off with shells, the
finger- and toe-nails and brain removed, and the
liquids of the eyes allowed to escape through holes
pierced in the pupils. The body was then well
smoked over campfires, dried in the sun and dressed
with ochre till it assumed a reddish tint. Then,
with the arms pressed to the sides, it was tied on a
crude frame in an erect position and put away for
future reference. Some of these mummies have
lasted down the years very well. The Queensland
Museum has a pair—a male and a female—excel-
lently preserved.
* * * *
“Jacko” : This tip is free. If you’re
troubled with starlings in the orchard and their lice
in the house, a large black bottle (the familiar beer
brand does well), dangled from a foot of string near
the nests, will be your best friend. Can’t explain
why, but can assert that the birds certainly do clear.
HIS COUP.
CONSTABLE O'ROREHAND (ringing th e
station) : “A man 'as bin rotted down
'ere, sorr, an’ Oi’ve got wan o’ them!”
SERGEANT (at the other end of the wire ):
“Got one, have you—which one?”
CONSTABLE O’R.: “The wan phwat was
rotted, sorr!”
THE HUMGRY ABORIGINAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There never was a greedy and gormandisin’ swine ”
Said Denny, “like that lanky, loafin’ myall boy of
mine. * 01
We pushed beyond the Koper, seekin’ wild cats
the bush,
And the nigger went as guide and sorter valet to the
push.
“This Billy boy would eat the bloomin’ hobbles off a
horse.
He’d scoff a sheep for lunch alone, and flint a second
course.
You found him eatin’ when you woke, when off to
bed you saw
That dirty nig. was workin’ still his r tatory j a w.
“And should we wish to keep a thing'—some dainty
out from town—
We tightly caged the tucker up, and tied the nigger
down.
Maloney’s horse went missin’, and of course suspicion
set
On Billy, and in point of fact it’s sittin’ on him yet.
“One day he went to dip a quart along the river’s
brim,
When up an alligator popped, and made a face at
him.
It seized our Billy by the leg. A howl the heavens
rent,
Then down together Billy and the alligator went.
“We watched in holy horror, and in (say) three
minutes’ space
Up came that blarsted abo., with a grin upon his
face.
‘The ’gator,’ says I, wonderin’, ‘what's come of him
me lad?’
‘S’ep me cat, he’s bin and ate it,’ says Malonpy. And
he had !”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


t(k
A
%
w>,
7a
Motor Tyre Census
AT THE 1917
{ Melbourne Cup
By their number you shall judge their popularity .
The greatest colkction of Motor Cars in Australia is to be found
annually assembled at Flemington on Cup Day—from the luxurious
limousine to the modest runabout. All tastes and styles were
represented in the Cars “ paddocked.” An inspection and count
revealed in no uncertain manner the partiality of the
Motoring Public as regards the particular make of tyre they
favoured. The figures are interesting and instructive, and tell the
“real story" as to what tyre finds most favour with Australian
Motorists. Certainly it is not with imported tyres, as some agents
v are anxious for the public to believe. AUSTRALIAN - MADE
) DUNLOP TYRES
J easily hold their own, and they hold it because of the
/ full value received in mileage. Look at the appended figures
and judge for yourself what make of tyre is the most used and
appreciated by Motorists.
31 Makes of Tyres were Represented.
3324 Covers were carefully checked on Cars.
1538 were Australian-made DUNLQPS
1786 Covers Represented 30 Other Makes.
The above figures represent a genuine reflex of
the motoring community’s appreciation of Dunlop
Service and Dunlop Economy. Last year’s census
was just as conclusive. Fit Dunlops—it pays!
By their popularity you shall judge their value.
★ ★ ★ ★
Obtainable in GROOVED, THREE RIBBED and RUBBER NOX-SKID
AT ALL THE LEADING GARAGES. LIST ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST, LTD.
108 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
268-274 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
95 COURTENAY PLACE, WELLINGTON.
27-33 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY.
53 CAMERON STREET, LAUNCESTON.
116 WORCESTER ST., CHRISTCHURCH.
103-105 FLINDERS ST., ADELAIDE.
67 KING STREET, PERTH.
62 FORT STREET, AUCKLAND.
I


There is Nothing Better than
1
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
L MI.
m
s
rv
38
22^
in
/
K
1
11
c tt.tm.firr tntTVfj
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years' experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
f If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
’ Ltd.
* GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
V “HEARNE’S”
“H.M.”: As I am billed to play Charles
the Wrestler against lan Maelaren's
Orlando, I have been taking a more than
casual interest in the different embrocations
on the market. For Maclaren is a quick,
light-stepping athlete. The last chap to
"do” the Wrestler with him was a
D.S.O. man who could chuck the actor
pretty well where, and when, he liked. All
went well at rehearsals, Charles duly gain-
ing the first two falls, and Orlando the third
and final. But on the opening night, the
soldier-johnny absolutely refused to be
thrown, and, try as hard as he was able,
Orlando couldn’t shift him an inch. “What
on earth did you do?” somebody asked.
“Oh.” said Maclaren, “I just ‘codded’ him
a bit, and then I introduced a new reading
to Shakspeare and jiu-jitsed the blighter!”
From an old Australian in London:—
Away back in the ’seventies Horace Lingard and
Alice Dunning made a tour of Australia and scored
a great success in “Our Boys,” Byron’s famous
comedy that achieved a record London run. Alice
was a professional beauty and probably the hand-
somest actress ever seen on the Sydney and Mel-
bourne boards. A good-looking sister, Dickie, accom-
panied her to Australia, but did not remain long
on the stage, retiring after a brilliant marriage.
Old Australian playgoers may be surprised to hear
that Horace Lingard is still in theatrical harness—a
prominent member of a company touring “Young
England.” His recollections as actor and music-hall
entertainer cover close on 60 years. He started in
the Theatre Royal, Plymouth, in a stock co., which
included Marie AVilton, her sister, father and mother,
all fulfilling a “family engagement” for a joint
salary of £3 10s. a week. Marie afterwards be-
came one of the most popular of London actresses and
is now Lady Bancroft. Horace remembers the
beginnings of the music-halls and was engaged
for some time as a humorous singer and entertainer
at the pioneer of the lot, the Canterbury, where he
had Emily Soldene, well-known in Sydney, as a
colleague. Emily was one of the “Canterbury Quar-
tette,” who used to stand in a row before the
footlights and warble part-songs and operatic selec-
tions. They were the first to introduce the gems of
Gounod’s “Faust” to a London audienc^
“Harrison O.”: There is a growing ten-
dency to exploit physical unloveliness for
comic purposes. Several persons of incon-
spicuous talents are finding their peculiar
faces their fortunes in current musical
shows, while others have recently discovered
how sweet are the uses of obesity. Three
avowed fun-makers in “You’re In Love” owe
their positions to the notion that humor is
but skin deep and that they also serve who’re
only weight. The idea that lack of beauty
in a comedian compensates for lack of
ability has been fostered by the success of
some abnormally fat, ridiculously thin or
unusually ugly screen performers. A
quaint appearance has, of course, been part
of the equipment of almost every successful
comic man, but when an attempt is made to
pass off a counterfeit humorist on his face
value alone, the judicious want to kick.
“M.P.A.”: Brisbane has some talent in a
cellar in Queen-street. Leon and Charles
Berliner are oculists by day and artists at
night. Leon is a first-class pianist with a
brain for composition, while the smaller and
younger Charles recites, to his brothers
improvisations, in wonderful musical tones.
The Berliners are of Polish descent, but
Bananalanders by birth, and good Austra-
lians in feeling.
The musical version of Pinero’s “The
Magistrate,” produced in London lately, was
billed as “The Boy.” • Australia dimly re "
members that Dot Boucicault was the Boy
when the comedy was played here more than
30 years ago. The magistrate was the
stepfather of the full-grown youth.
“Five Reels”: The secrecy of the British
Admiralty with regard to new ships is only
equalled by the reticence of Yank picture-
makers. The flicker pirates are always on
the prowl with both ears cocked for the titles
of pictures in the making. If they hear
that the Whoop Up people are bringing out
“She Never Knew What Hit Her,” they set
their crew to work and rush something witn
the same title on to the market. It need not
have any resemblance to the grand origina
work; so long as the title is stolen, swiftly
and neatly, they are satisfied. To circum-
vent this the studios now never name a mm
until it is completed, and the flicker stais
only know they are mouthing and shooting
in No. 15 or 49, or whatever it may be.
An advertiser asked in the Age one day
last week for a young man, “must have goo
voice.” The ad. drew over 30 applicants.
Fifteen were excellent and approved tenois-
eight were certified baritones, most ot tu
rest were bassos. The job went to an ex-
fishmonger. What was wanted was a bellman
for a political candidate.
Business, Robbery, etc.
THE HAPPY GARDENERS.
[For The Bulletin.]
We were storemen, clerks and packers on an
ammunition dump
Twice the size of Cootamundra, and the goods we
had to hump
They were bombs as big as water-butts, and cart-
ridges in tons,
Shells that looked like blessed gasmains, and a
line in traction-guns.
We had struck a warehouse dignity in dealing with
the stocks.
It was, “Sign here, Mr. Eddie! ” “Clarkson, forward
to the socks 1 ”
Our floor-walker was a major, with a nozzle like a
peach,
And a stutter in his Trilbies, and a limping kind of
speech.
We were off at eight to business, we were free for
lunch at one,
And we talked of new Spring fashions, and the
brisk trade being done.
After fire we sought our dugouts lying snug beneath
the hill,
Each with hollyhocks before it and geraniums on the
sill.
Singing “Home, Sweet Home,” we swept, and.
scrubbed, and dusted up the place,
Then smoked out on the doorstep in the twilight’s
tender grace.
After which with spade and rake we sought our
special garden plot,
And we ’tended to the cabbage and the shrinking
young shallot.
So long lived we unmolested that this seemed indeed
“the life,”
Set apart from mirk and worry and the incidence of
strife;
And we trimmed our Kitchen Eden, swapping veg-
etable lore,
While the whole demented world beside was muddled
up with war.
There was little talk of Bosches and of bloody battle
scenes,
But a deal about Bill's spuds and Banjo Benson's
butter-beans;
Porky specialised on onions, and he had a sort of
gift
For a cabbage plump and tender that it took two
men to lift.
In the pleasant Sabbath morning, when the sun lit
on our “street,”
And illumed the happy dugout with effulgence kind
and sweet,
It was fine to see us forking, raking, picking off the
bugs,
Treading flat the snails and woodlice and demolish-
ing the slugs.
Then one day old Fritz got going. He had heard
a hint of us,
And the shell the blighter posted was as roomy as a
’bus;
He was groping round the dump, and kind of peek-
ing after it;
When he plugged the hill the world heeled up, the
dome of heaven split.
Then, 0 Hell and consternation! Swooped a shell
and stuck her nose
Into Banjo’s beans. Those beans came up! A cry
of grief arose!
As we watched them —plunk! another shell cut
loose, and everywhere
Flew the spuds of Billy Murphy. There were turnips
in the air.
Biff! she tore a quarter-acre from the landscape.
With it burst
Tommy’s carrots, and we watched them, and in
whispers prayed and cursed.
Then a wail of anguish ’scaped us. Boomed in
Porky’s cabbage plot
A detestable concussion. Porky’s cabbages were not!
There the breaking strain was reached, for Porky
fetched an awful cry,
And he rushed away and armed himself. With loath-
ing in his eye,
Up and over went the hero. He was savage through
and through,
And he tore across the distance like a maddened
kangaroo.
They had left a woeful sight indeed—frail cabbages
all rent, *
Turnips mangled, little carrots all in one red burial
blent,
Parsnips ruined, lettuce shattered, torn and wilted
beet and bean,
And a black and grinning gap where once our garden
flourished green.
Five and fifty hours had passed when came a German
in his shirt.
On his back he carried Porky black with blood, and
smoke and dirt.
“I sniped six of ’em,” said Porky, “an’ me pris’ner
here,” he sez—
“I done in the crooel swine what strafed me helpless
cabba-yes.”
VICTORIA. D.
* • * *
“A.M. J.”: The coal which the rough seas
so cheaply provide “Levette” (B. 1S/10/T7)
will, for a few minutes, burn more brightly
than the same class of coal that has not had
a salt bath. The reason is that coal, after
being at the bottom of the sea for a time,
becomes impregnated with salt, and there-
after burns with a different color. Work-
ing on this fact and the credulity of those
who have increased coal bills to pay, quacks
get busy. They claim that coal sprinkled
with their compound (at 9d. per lb.) gives
so much more heat than untreated coal that
the missus will have to pay only two bills
where she used to have three. The missus
often falls in. She ought to write up on the
coalshed door the axiom that money can’t be
saved by the addition of any known sub-
stance which costs more per lb. than coal
does. When Uncle Sam climbed through
the ropes he, in his desire to make every
ton of coal work overtime, tested some of
these alleged coal-savers. Analysis disclosed
the following composition: Free moisture, 1
p.c.; combined moisture, 7.5 p.c.; sodium
chloride (common salt), 77.36 p.c. The other
components were of about the same value
as the salt. The missus shouldn’t fall in
any more.
* * * *
“Murkah” : The complaint known as “tele-
graphist’s cramp” is seriously reducing the
numbers of competent operators. The
trouble was investigated in the U.S.A. years
ago, and the reforms which followed pro-
duced immediate results. The size of the
manipulating key was reduced by about two-
thirds, and instead of being at the
edge of the table it was placed about 15in.
in. The lessened weight of the key, and the
fact that the operator was able to rest his
arm on the table, reduced breakdown to 2 p.c.
About 12 months ago an old Sydney tele-
graphist told me that he considered the Aus-
tralian figures to be about 60 p.c. The key
used in our telegraph offices is antiquated
and needlessly heavy. Its fixture at the
edge of the table compels the operator to
support his arm in an awkward position for
hours every day. Though by no means a
weakling, I found this position a killer. One
of the foolish regulations just out prohibits
resting the arm on the table. This is cruel
and absurd ! By adopting the American plan
I found myself able to send for hours at a
stretch without fatigue. The cramp is, in
my opinion, physical, not nervous or mental,
as most telegraphists claim.
* * * *
“Pillpounder”: “Inkwage” (B. 25/10/T7)
talks enviously about the retail chemist’s
150 per cent, profits. Though I have been 20
years in the retail game I am sorry to say I
haven’t found them yet. I could name
dozens of drugs that have risen, wholesale,
not 150 per cent., but anything from 300 to
1500 per cent, in the last few years. But
the retail chemist has not lifted his prices in
proportion, and his profits have got smaller
and smaller. It was conclusively proved a
few months ago, by an analysis of the busi-
nesses of the ordinary retail chemist, that if
a man, instead of investing £1500 or so in a
retail pharmacy, were to put it into the War
Loan at per cent, and take a job as
manager of a pharmacy at £6 a week, he
would be in pocket, without having all the
attendant worries or a business on his mind.
* * * *
“Bad American”: “Good Australian” (B.
25/10/T7) says “rents of houses, flats and
apartments in ’Frisco are twice and thrice as
high as in Melbourne.” Nothing of the kind,
unless he hit the city when the Exposition
was. in full swing. Then, of course, they were
a little higher; but previous to this and
after rents were as cheap as, or cheaper, than
in Melbourne. I have stayed at a good
hotel right in San Francisco for two and a
half dollars a week. Where in Melbourne is
this possible? “Good Australian’s” state-
ment that “tram fares are higher and ’phone
charges five times as high” amazes me. To
my knowledge one can travel from end to
end of ’Frisco (Embarcadero to Beach) for
a humble “nickel,” and the charge for use of
’phone is the same—one half-penny, that is,
more than in Australia.
* * * *
. “McNorth”: The favorite method of hunt-
ing mother-o’-pearl in Torres Strait is by
“.dress-diving” from luggers. The crew con-
sists of a Japanese diver and tenders with
Fly River Papuans or Malays to work the
craft and act as pump-boys. The luggers are
nearly all built in Thursday Island to one
model by Japanese, and are very fast. With
the approach of the end of the nor’-west
season (April) stores for a month are placed
aboard and sail is set for the grounds. Shell
is scattered more or less plentifully all over
the floor of Torres Strait, but there are
recognised beds which the divers work
according to wind and tide. When the
divers descend the luggers do not anchor, but
drift down the tide. The diver is usually the
skipper, and as he stumbles along the sea-
floor he directs, by a system of tugs and
shakes of his life-line, the movements of his
craft. As he finds the shells he places them
in a basket, which holds about 13 of full
size. When by reason of a sandbank or reef
the end of the drift is reached, the vessel
beats to windward to a position suitable for
another drift. It is in this beat-up that the
speed of a lugger counts; a slow-footed craft
would miss a big share of the tide. Under
existing arrangements the pearls are the
property of the divers. Good stones are
occasionally found, but it is the shell that is
principally sought after. The pearls are re-
garded as b.unce. Pearlshell is also obtained
by “swimming,” or naked-diving, in water of
five fathoms or less. The hunters search the
bottom as long as they can hold their breath.
A recent regulation, however, forbids
“swimming” for mother-of-pearl by others
than, the natives of Torres Strait'Islands,
the idea being to make the shallow water
their preserve.
* * * .
Pannikin”: A Barren Jack
(JN.S.YV.) chemist, charged with selling a
toothbrush after hours, pleaded that, as the
Early Closing Act allowed him to sell tooth-
paste as medicine, he was within his rights
in selling a toothbrush. “As medicine
queried the P.M. slily. “No.” “As what
• ,, 8 a sur gical instrument, your
YY orship, was the ingenious but ineffective
reply.
* * * •
‘Hori’’: Maoriland makes good wines, too,
though lew? Maorilanders know it. From a
Government experimental farm near Auckland
it is possible to have delivered at your back
door a gallon keg of “Canary” or “Madeira”
which tastes more like liquid sunshine than
many imported qualities do. And the lot
costs only 6s., if you return the keg when
empty. Maorilanders prefer Australian
wines, and Australians prefer French, while
many of Max O’Rell’s countrymen would
rather have Australian, which gives two
votes for the Australian vintage against one
for that of France.
* * * *
I have since planting all my ground
A fact in hydrostatics found—
Though water runs not up a hill
It speedily runs up a bill!
VICTORIA. g
USEFUL INFORMATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas at the circus matinSe.
Jim watched that facile brute,
The big bull elephant, eat hay,
And currant buns, and fruit.
Well pleased with its intelligence,
James went right up to shake
Its trunk, and stroke its bulk immense
Rewarding its uncommon sense
With apples and with cake.
The elephant, absorbed in food,
And careless of his whims,
But not intending to be rude,
Placed one round foot on Jim’s.
Arose a fearful racket there—•
Jim Collan yelled aloud;
The people gathered round to stare;
His howlings stiffened up the hair
Of all the pallid crowd.
The elephant benignly glad
His little tail did swing,
And tossed his hay as if he had
Not noticed anything.
Poor Jimmie cried in accents dree
His unaccustomed woe.
Then came a little man to see.
“Please, sir, that elephant,” said he,
“Is standing on your toe I"
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


[f* w wpp v wpj ipv wff JffvpJwiTJ iff »
A jji jfl'W 11 WW
gji
rm
m
m
'3.
j
mmmi
Columbia
at
Pre-War
Records
WHAT ALL THE MUSIC
WORLD SHOULD KNOW
Everything is mounting up.
Raw Material is dearer.
Freights are higher.
Labor is more expensive.
YET COLUMBIA RECORDS
REMAIN atPRE-WAR PRICES
HE COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONE COMPANY desires to say that their
matchless records —that bring to the hearts and homes of the people of all lands
the world’s greatest music and greatest voices—will not be raised in price. They
will remain unchanged in a world of change, and inexpensive in a world in which
everything has become dearer.
This is made possible by the enormous output of these records —an output that
grows week by week and year by year. These celebrated Columbia Records include such
world-famous exclusive artists as : —Mdme. Clara Butt, Mdme. Elsa Stralia, M. Hipolito
Lazaro, Sir Henry J. Wood, Sir Thomas Beecham, M. de Pachmann, M. Pablo Casals,
M. Eugen Ysaye, Mr. Hubert Eisdell, Mr. Kennerley Rumford, Mr. W. H. Squire, etc.
Buy These Records Now. They are not Dearer.
And they will never be cheaper, and they make every home happier.
COLUMBIA RECORDS are Obtainable at all First-class Music Stores.
SOLE
WHOLESALE
AGENTS—
f SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty., Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
< PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all information
may be
obtained.
Columbia J 9
RE CORD S
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK


IJ
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond, knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. gold, £3/10/-
ALL ORDERS POST FREE
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond p
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £5. d Bar
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklace, set pearls and
aquamarines or tourmalines,
£2/10/-. Set diamonds
and aquamarines or tour-
malines, 15ct. gold,
£5/15/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Battalion Ring, any
colors supplied, 9ct.
gold, 25/-. Lady’s
size, 21/-
A. Saunders’ Links,
daintily engraved, 9ct.
gold, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle anl Spray
Brooch, 15ct. gold,
£3/15/-
9XO
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bracelet, set with Amethyst,
ok /
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
1 f>ct. sold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders Lady’s
Hand-clasp Ring,
9ct. gold, 20/-
15ct„ 25/-
lSct., 30/-
A. Saunders’
Necklace, set
Aquamarines o
Tourmalines,
9ct. gold, 37/,
Met, £2/15/.
35/
VALUE
£3
SPECIAL
A. Saunders’ Links,
daintily engraved, 9ct.
gold, 20/-. 15ct., 35/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
Safety Tie Pin,
3/6, 4/6,
5/6, accord-
ing to size.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£lO.
Larger diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Sauqders’ Gent.’s
Amethyst set Ring,
9ct. gold, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Sil-
ver Hunting Keyless Lever
Watch, full jewelled, £2.
Heavier case, 50/-. Gold-filled'
Elgin or Waltham, £4/4/-,
£5/5/-, £6/6/-. 9ct.
gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
14ct. gold, £B/10/- 18ct.
A. Saunders’ Curb Snap
strong safety chain, 9ct.
30/-, £2, £2/10/-,
Padlock Bangle, with
STold, £3. Other sizes,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ Nellie Stewart Bangle, secret snap, 9ct. gold
£2. Others, 30/-, £2/10/-, £3. 15ct. gold, £3/10/«
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Luminous Radium Dial Wristlet Watch, gun-
metal or nickel case, jewelled movement, 25/- Extra
quality, 30/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. Solid gold,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’
Pure double-cut
Diamond Half-
hoop Ring,
18ct., gold,
£7/10/-,
Smaller dia-
monds, £s #
u
A. Saunders’
9ct. gold Safety
Tie Pin,
3/6,'4/6,
5/6, accord-
ing to size.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. solid
Gold, Half-hunting Keyless
Lever Watch, full jewelled,
compensation balance,
£4/10/-.
14ct. gold, £5/10/-. 18ct.
S°ld, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
Saunders
red or blue
stone set Rin
9ct., gold,
10/6.
A. Saunders’ Wishbone and
Battalion-color Brooch, any
Battalion colors supplied, 9ct.
gold, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ 9et.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set with pearls and
aquamarines or garnets,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Railway
Station),
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set with pearls and
aquamarine or ruby,
25/-
A. Saunders’ Boomerang and
Battalion-color Brooch, any Bat-
talion colors supplied, Oct. gold,
8/6.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manages.
ON ALL OCCASIONS
when you may require a specially strong antiseptic Soap—for
instance, to protect yourself against mosquitoes and other insects,
or to antiseptically cleanse their bites —use
CALVERT’S
20% Carbolic Soap.
Use a light lather only, that is all you nesd with a Soap like this,
which contains such a large proportion of Carbolic.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers. Each tablet in metal box.
Makers: F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester, England.
BOOKS AT AUSTRALIA’S BIG BOOK STORE
I Will Get You Any Book You Require. I
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS—LOVE. BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc.,
with full directions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and llow to Win at Cards
l/o. Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering. Brazing. Gasfitting &c - 1/6
posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, 1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-,
posted 1/3. Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, 1/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules
for all Gaines), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River, 4/-.
Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic, 1/3. Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, 1/-.
iiiE Doctor (Cures for all Diseases), 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date. 1/6
posted. Speeches & Toasts, Public Speaking Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly
Gang of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; posted. 1/2. Electricity
Made Simple (new), 5/-. Self-Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handybook. 1/6. Complete Book-keep-
ing, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. How McDou-
gall Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3. French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan-
nan’s Engine-Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6.
Decameron of Boccaccio, lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each posted.
Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted. Women’s Secrets. 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted. The- Woman of Fire, 2/-. Send a trial order NOW.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save your cash. 25 Years.
WITH Cabds M L « Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1/6 po&ted. New Tricks
xbm™- Sa £ PH0 ’ genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Song/s, 1/3 posted. DR.
Ada! LiNDsiv PnLnJ A S DBOOK - 92 Poetical illustrations, d/ 6. Aristotle, 3/6.
to '/o I ° EMS ’ T c ; omplete ’ V 6. Practical PaJlmistry, 1/5. Guide
Letter WmS i / 2/ aV t S , ecret History Court of England,' 1/0 posted. Lovers
posed Rev to 11 n'„ ALL >t BOUJ t I^ t ? üba t°RS, 1/6. Freemasonry Ex-
lOd. posted 1 Tokologyees, Ne W Edßion, l/o posted. Vest |l>ocket Dictionary,
HeadsTto'« -L°^ logy . /6 Pusted. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d., <2/-. How to Read
Bread 1/6 posted - Crevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Handbook V/o CUIT A akers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assistant,/ 1/6. The Wife’s
of Philosophy 1/ nosoS EN inn\ M AC t» A DDEn ’ s Wobks > ;iI I it 5/6 posted. Fruits
ness and Its CttH Recitat ions and Readings, 1/3. Nervous-
pages 1600 iilns lentH" - P° s t® d - W ebster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1706
BootmlkTng and^REpfißTNr nd i/T P -£ Ce ’ 16/ * post P aid (wh? pay 3 and 4 guineas?)
Universal Assist \\t ay! G nrH”' Dy ?^ mos and Electric', Motors, 1/3. Moores
posted. The Sfcrfts or n T n', 1 PLETE Mechanic, 1016 pag>es. cloth bound. H/0
and music comnletel 1f a m CE ' 1/_ P° sted - 200 ODd-Time Songs (words
WRITE FOR CATALoSuE TO-dH? AGE ° F Reason ’ b l 7 Paine ’ posted ° d '
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this Advt.
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the AsKing.
RE MI I in STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
COUNTRY. |
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. N 0 DUTY.
- ROOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. _
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big boo* RTr> P .r


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSII.
TIVOLI T H EAIli E. SYDNEY
Nightly at 8. Matinge Wednesday at 2.30.
REYNOLDS & WHITE. THE BEAUTY SHOP
by an all-star Women Cast. DROWNED, BUT NOT
DEAD, produced by Leonard Durrell. George
Welch, Senor Roger, Jean Keith, Doris Thornton,
Daisy and Sydney Yates, Peggy Peat
■IVOEI
THEATRE,
•MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance for a Short Season
of
ADA REEVE,
Supported by a Brilliant Company.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
CRITERION T II E A Tlt E. SYDNEY.
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY AT 2.
IvATHLENE MACDONELL
in
THE RAINBOW.
CHARLES WALDRON in association.
I_l E It 31 A ,J E S T Y ' S, S Y 1) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinges Every Wednesdav and Friday at
MR. MANHATTAN.
2.
Commencing SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1
Return of THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in
THE RED WIDOW.
D A EACH THE A T R 15. SYDN E Y.
1 Direction .. .. PHILIP LYTTON, LTD
Business Manager .. GEORGE L. MERRIMAN.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23.
LAST NIGHT OF
THE WAYBACKS.
THE COMEDY THAT WINS THROUGH.
4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
the p lath o u se, s y d n e y.
(Little Theatre, Castlereagh Street.)
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT’S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in
QUINNEYS.
By HORACE A. VACHELL.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
C T. JAMES’S HALL (Phillip St.), SYDNEY.
24th NOVEMBER.
THE ABORIGINES DRAMATIC CLUB
will present
THE REAL MISS PINKERTON,
A FARCE IN THREE ACTS.
In aid of Fruit and Vegetable Fund, Wireless Sig-
nallers of Mesopotamia and Australian Pioneers’
( omforts.
Mrs. MOIR, Mrs. KERR, Mrs. Colls, Mrs. PARREY,
Organisers. Producer: J. CLARENCE LEE.
T ItIANGLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEAT It E S
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their New English Musical Comedy Co.
in
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til EAT R E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MARIE TEMPEST,
A PAIR OF SILK STOCKINGS.
KING’S THEATRE', MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees ....;.. BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 24.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
lAN MACLAREN and a Specially-selected Co. in
JULIUS C ESAR.
Popular Prices. _
DR-INCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Messrs. BEN and JOHN FULLER
present \
WM. ANDERSON’S Dramatic Organisation
in l
THE WOMAN THOU GAVE ST ME.
Popular Prices, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plans at Pianola,
Collins Street.
|_| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
Every Evening
OLYMPIA.
Matinees Saturday at 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
EMILY STEVENS
in
DESTINY, OR THE SOUL OF A
WOMAN.
And
THE SPARKLING 5-ACT COMEDY
DRAMA,
THINK IT OVER.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
gy| V.JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN
in his Twelfth Mutual Comedy,
TEE ADVENTURER.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|7l ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
|U KIT ANN IA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
N-Z. Government Notice.
DOMINION OF NEW
To Shearers and Slaughtermen.
'T'HE New Zealand Government guarantees that
Australian Shearers and Slaughtermen going to
the Dominion for the season will at the end thereof
he granted permits, to return to Australia.
W. R. BLOW,
New Zealand Government Agent.
14 Moore Street, Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 29th October, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of a Motor-
driven Hydraulic Pump to H.M.A.
Naval Establishments, Garden
Island, Sydney.
riTENDERS will be received, subject to
-L the conditions of tendering, until 12
noon on Friday, sth April, 1918, for the
; supply of a Motor-driven Hydraulic Pump
| to H.M.A. Naval Workshops, Garden Island,
1 Sydney.
Tender form, specification and any
further particulars may be obtained on ap-
plication at the Offices of the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
the General Manager, H.M.A. Naval Estab-
lishments, Sydney; and at the Naval Staff
Office, Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.), Fre-
mantle and Hobart.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Missing Friends.
\WILL DUNBAR WILLIAM WYLD, late of South-
vv port, Queensland, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with A. W. BALE, Solici-
tor, Adelaide Street, Brisbane, with reference to his
father’s estate.
RICHARD THOMAS DUNN.
INFORMATION is required as to the
whereabouts of RICHARD THOMAS
DUNN, formerly of Riversdale Farm, Mil-
ton, Otago, New Zealand, who was last
heard of about 10 years ago, when he was
in Melbourne. Present address required or
proof of his death (if dead). Something to
his advantage. Apply in first place to
JOHN JAMES LANE, Milton, Otago, N.Z.
£lOO REWARD—ALEXANDER INCH RITCHIE.
'THE ABOVE-NAMED, WHO WAS A REPRESEN-
-1 TATIVE OF DALGETY & CO., GEELONG, MISS-
ING FROM GEELONG SINCE 30th JULY, 1917.
Description : Age 45, height 5 feet 9 or 10 inches,
medium complexion, darkish hair turning grey, brown
moustache, square-shouldered, rather sharp features,
about 13 stone. When last seen wore dark grey sac
suit, white starched collar, cotton shirt, rough grey
tweed overcoat, dark grey hat —generally wore tan
boots—gold curb pattern chain across vest, with Gee-
long Church of England Grammar School Badge and
open-faced silver watch. Assumed to be suffering loss
of memory, and gone to the country. Appearance
may have changed by growth of heard. IF LOCATED,
PLEASE COMMUNICATE, W. S. RITCHIE,
“WESTBANK,” CAMPERDOWN, VICTORIA.
WAR=TIME PROFITS TAX
rTTHE official handbook on the War-Time
J Profits Tax, which has been prepared
by the Commissioner of Taxation, is now
ready.
This work deals as exhaustively as pos-
sible with every feature in the Act, and
contains examples of calculations of pre-war
profits in old and new businesses; of the
effect ,upon an assessment produced by the
use of borrowed money in a business; and
full particulars regarding the calculation of
the capital and profits in pastoral businesses.
Every business and public accountant and
lawyer needs this Handbook.
All the subjects covered by the Act and
described in the Handbook are arranged in
alphabetical order. Then follows the Act
and Regulations with a copious index. The
work is as complete as it has been possible
to make it up to the present.
The retail price will be 5/- from all book-
sellers. Post free 5/6.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
Poo’t Expcrin)ei)t.
The Real Thing in Razors is the “Plum.” Gets
through the job in a quarter the time, and makes
the business a pleasure. “The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST TREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Y 7 ulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30 /-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
THEY SCREW IN
to the outer case. They
therefore are impervi-
ous to dust, to perspi-
ration, to damp. Pre-
eminently suitable for
the heat of campaign-
ing and of Egypt.
WHAT OF THEIR COINC
RELIABILITY
Yes, they are abso-
lutely dependable.
They are high-grade,
3-plate lever move-
ments, with 15 jewels,
a brequet hairspring
and a compensated
balance. They have
also high-grade lumi-
nous dials and hands,
which make the time
visible on the darkest
night. They have been
specially made for us for the use of our brave men going to the Front. They are fitted into the
best-quality pigskin regulation Wristlets, and cost 555. Our stock of Soldiers’ Watches is enormous,
and ranges from those at 255. up to £lO/10/- in gold. A special discount is given when for
public presentation.
Absolutely Reliable, Fully Jewelled Lever Movement, with
Figures and Hands, to screw into Solid Silver Case, complete in
Wristlet, 55/-
Luminous
Regulation
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Westcourt, the Cup Winner
Biplane, the Derby Winner
In the stables of both you will find
Leslie Salt licks
These famous Racehorses —in fact, every Racer
Pacer, Trotter and all valuable horses are given
LESLIE SALT LICKS —the pure, refined,
sterilised salt.
51b. Blocks, fitted with loop, 2/-; 22/6 per doz.
Case
Lots.
U
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
RECORDS
Gems in the December List.
NOW ON SALE EVERYWHERE.
Caruso and Elman in combination —think of it! Record 2-032017,
“Les deux serenades,” gives us the celestial voice of Caruso and the
masterful Elman embellishment. Both celebrities are recorded in a
wonderful manner.
Another gem: 4-2701, “The Pipes of Gordon’s Men,” by Evan
Williams, the famous Welsh tenor.
Harry Dearth’s exquisite rendering of “The Two Grenadiers” (02673),
and the delightful Mendelssohn “Spring Song,” by the Philharmonic
String Quartette (8121) are records that should be added to every
collection.
New records this month by
KARRY LAUDER,
MADAME LICETTE,
VENETIAN TRIO,
I)E GROOT’S ORCHESTRA,
CHAS. HARRISON,
VIOLET OPPENSHAW,
ISOLDE MENGES,
MAYFAIR ORCHESTRA,
LIGHT OPERA COMPANY,
RUBY HEYL,
*'3
GRAMOPHONE’
llegistered Trade Mark.
HUBERT EISDELL and many others.
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and name of
nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street Sydney.


STOP STOMACH DRUGGING.
NEUTRALISE THE DANGEROUS ACID
WITH A LITTLE MAGNESIA.
Stomach drugging is dangerous. Drugs
often deaden the nerves and render them
insensible to pain, but pain serves a good
purpose—it is Nature’s method of indicating
that something is interfering with the smooth
working of the human organism. When the
fault is corrected the pain will cease. Pain
after eating—heartburn, flatulence, etc.—
usually indicates not that the stomach is
diseased, but that it is troubled by excessive
acidity. The acid irritates and inflames the
delicate lining of the stomach, and so causes
pain. Obviously it is of prime importance
that the cause of this pain should be re-
moved, and to accomplish this you should
obtain some bisurated magnesia from your
chemist, and take half a teaspoonful in a
little water immediately after meals. This
is the remedy which produced such excellent
results in the case of Miss Alice M. Allen. 6J
Fletcher Street, Auburn. Victoria, who says:
“I suffered so severely from indigestion that
I often had to lie down, quite exhausted by
the pain. I became thin and felt worn out.
Nothing seemed to do me the least good until
I tried bisurated magnesia, but the first dose
of this made me feel better, and I have had
no return of my complaint.’’ Equally good
results are invariably accomplished by bisur-
ated magnesia, because it neutralises the
harmful acid which is the underlying cause
of all the trouble, and. having done this. i
soothes, heals and strengthens the stomac
and ensures proper digestion of the food.
&
ARAMfiUtil-
OR ES
3 m 1
“Tf if*
r*h'»*»*
HI
. I »•
r.
car? fee
YMARKETPROGRA
}pjy6ur Oar/? Town
aguar
Th
er
Tto
r
*w = ~= =r ~
rrwr?_
as
IV
THEATRE.
TRf
MR
RHIT
10^
\\\ \\V
m
When you were last in Sydney you joined
the thrones that passed through the
palatial Haymarket entrance.
You went because the Haymarket is the home of
PARAMOUNT PICTURES,
Productions that contain every ounce of human emotion —that portray living, breathing life—that
formed and perfectly produced, with the greatest Stare in the Motion-Picture World.
perfectly
You saw such 'Wonderful Artists as MARY PICKFORD.
FATTY ARBUCKLE, VICTOR MOORE, MARGUERITE
CLARK, PAULINE FREDERICK, LOUISE HUFF, VIVIAN
MARTIN. KATHLYN WILLIAMS, MARGARET lI.LINGTON,
WALLACE REID, SESSUE HAYAKAY.A, GEORGE BF.BAN,
HOUSE PETERS, .TACK PICKFORD —and you wished that you
had a Haymarket theatre in your own town.
Vou can nave the Haymarket in your own town if you have
Paramount Pictures.
Ask your exhibitor for Paramount Pictures. Let him know that
you are entitled to consideration, since the show is for your
benefit, and if he wants your patronage he must show
PARAMOUNT —the Best Pictures.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Commonwealth Government has now
whipped the big copper producers into a
selling combine, and all their metal must go
through the vend. Apparently the big cos.
haven’t objected; but the time will come
when the local consumer will.
[FRED BROWN, Albert-street, Freshwater.]
IN TOPHET.
WONDERUS: “And this is”
KNOWUS: “An anti-conscriptionist having
his head read.”
The antis ought to be honest about the
matter. Here, for instance, is ex-Senator
Arthur Rae, their official spokesman in N.
S. Wales, declaring that if Hughes did this,
that and the other thing—especially if he
killed the Censor and made meat cheap—
there would be plenty of men offering under
the voluntary system. Then the ex-Senator
demands to know what will happen to the
crops, etc., if this cursed thing Conscription
is carried. Will it make any difference, so
far as the crops, etc., are concerned if the
men go as volunteers or as “conscripts”?
At each succeeding State elections the
people yell for unification by simply declin-
ing to show interest in local politics. In the
Vic. turmoil this month a desperate attempt
was made to rouse enthusiasm with the good
old “economy” cry and by the formation of
an alleged “National” party. Citizens were
urged to help the Empire and its Allies by
returning “National” candidates” for Billy’s
Lookout and Splitter’s Gully. Owing to the
introduction of preferential voting the can-
didates Avere unusually numerous; the press
devoted columns to reports of their speeches
—and on election day the free and indepen-
dent electors shied from the polling-booths in
tens of thousands. In many constituencies
the votes polled did not represent 50 per
cent, of the electors. In Brunswick about 47
per cent, voted, in Flemington 45, in Boroon-
dara 41, in Mornington 40, in Toorak only a
trifle over 37 per cent.
[M. PAUL, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
NEVER MIND THE ELY!
“Hughes matters nothing in this business."
BULLETIN 15/11/’17.
BILLJIM: “Send it over —you can't judge an
ointment by the fly that has crawled
over it.”
Listen to Ilagelthorn, Minister for Agri-
culture in Vic.: —
Loans must be secured to assist the State by agri-
cultural development to shoulder the responsibilities
of the future.
And the same old gag is doing duty in every
State of the Commonwealth. But it happens
that “agricultural development” is not the
only thing the loap-mongering politician has
to think about borrowing for. There is the
little business of meeting the bill handed on
by the individuals who talked the same way
in the long ago., and the details are about
as cheerful to contemplate as a family of
crows at breakfast. During the current and
the next five years the following State debt
will mature
N. S. Wales.. .. £49,388,975
Victoria .. .. 31,297,418
Bananaland .. .. 2,554,697
S. Australia .. .. 14,512,253
Westralia .. .. 4,582,823
Tasmania .. .. 3,619,824
Total ..£105,975,990
When Ilagelthorn and his friends have
handed back that lot and Bananaland has
come to light with the £26.000,060 which
Cohen will be waiting for a couple of years
later, the time may be ripe for talking about
borrowing a few bob for something else.
The duty of the Hughes Government is
to act up to its assertions concerning the
traitorous section of the Antis, and give the
honest section some evidence to go upon.
Here, as in Britain thus far. “Boloism” is
denounced without being unmasked. It was
all very well for Hughes to tell his Bendigo
audience: —
The recent strike was the fruits of a deliberate
conspiracy to hamstring the Government’s efforts in
regard to recruiting. It was engineered by the same
men who had driven out of the Labor movement
every man who had dared to put his country in the
hour of great peril before his. party and its petty
interests. It was supported by the 1.W.W., by
Sinn Fein, by every disloyal section in Australia....
Voluntary recruiting has failed. And Sinn Fein,
which shrieks for liberty and takes German gold to
do Germany’s dirty work, which is the paid tool of
the great enemy of liberty—Sinn Fein and those
other sections of which I spoke have killed it.
Yet not a scheming traitor has been brought
to trial in Australia since the war began.
Not a direct reference to treacherous un-
interned Huns can be found in Hughes’s
speech. He talks of things which should
force him to take action against the evil-
doers. But he takes no action. All wind,
wind, wind.
The S. Ahs. Assembly and Leg. Council
spent the closing hours of the session in an
odd dispute. An amendment of the criminal
law, to protect children more effectively
against sexual offences, was going through
without trouble till the elderly Council
tacked on to it a clause for the most effec-
tual protection of all—by a surgical opera-
tion —in cases of proved continuing deprav-
ity. The Assembly did not agree, and in an
eleventh-hour conference of the two Houses
the knife was finally not insisted on. W ith
more commonsense gaol treatment most of the
arguments in support of surgical treatment
would disappear. It is mainly because we
rebel more and more against keeping people
in prison, doing nothing worth mentioning,
that we think of emasculating them instead.
But emasculation can’t be merely a substi-
tute for gaol, because what the knife has
done can’t be undone, no matter what men-
tal change for the better the man may
undergo.
Labor-leader Frank Tudor at Melbourne
the other night brought forward, among his
reasons for voting “No,” the increased price
obtained during the last year or so. for Aus-
tralian wool; and when he mentioned an
increase of HO per cent, the audience felt its
bowels turning round and groaned “Shame.”
The Bulletin has been struggling to under-
stand the meaning of this, and urges Tudor
to forthwith explain what damage has been
done to the Australian people by the national
earnings being increased through the sale of
wool. An award was recently given by-
Justice Higgins, on the application of the
A.W.U., materially increasing the wages of
rural workers, mainly upon evidence regard-
ing the higher prices obtained for produce.
Will Tudor promise to take steps to reduce
the price of wool so that the award may be
cancelled? If not, what is he growling
about?
With the harvest in close proximity the
wheat cookies of Australia are yelling for
eornsacks and can’t get them. For the
last week or two they have been sending in
orders for bags, and nobody will promise
delivery. Men in the early districts must
start harvesting this month, and most of
them haven’t a bag in sight. Yet on Sep-
tember 5 Hughes assured an army of anxious
backbones that “it was estimated that the
number of sacks available would be amply
sufficient to meet requirements.” Later
the same party emphatically asserted that
ample supplies had been provided for. But
the cockies are failing to get them with great
unanimity, and between cursing Hughes
with more energy even than usual they are
preparing to dig holes in the ground and
take other measures to temporarily store
the grain—which will mean a great waste
of wheat, not to speak of labor. If you
want to know anything about the Phews
Government as an “organiser of industry,”
it isn’t safe just now to ask a wheat cocky.
According to Premier Ryan, of Banana-
land, cheap chops would do more than any-
thing else to encourage recruiting in N. S.
Wales. Perhaps Ryan will explain next
what the effect of cheap sugar would be.
John Storey, leader of the N. S. Wales
Labor Party, denounces compulsory service,
but puts in a reservation :
Nothing would give me greater delight than to
see big loafing squatters sent away. If I had my
way I would trot them off. (Loud cheers.)
Very well, why not trot them off? Why
should John deny himself pleasure, Billjim
a mate and the enemy a wallop? The refer-
endum is sent him express! v that he may
have his way. Why be false to himself and
refuse what the referendum offers him?
TWO SIDES TO EVERY QUESTION.
SHE: “Are you quite sure I’m the right
woman?”
HE: “Positive!”
SHE: “Veil, I hate telling you, hut you're
the wrong man.”
A member of the N. S. Wales Assembly
named Lazzann. was publicly blowiS
against compulsion the other night and in •
■*««■«»». Hushes n„; n‘l,"
taking to resign Ins seat if the referendum
was defeated. Rut when someone wanted
know whether if the referendum was carried
THE CAPTAIN'S DUGOUT.
G UIDE: “It used to he ’ere, sir.”
INTELLIGENT OFFICER: “H'm! Some thing’s
been here!”
Lazzarini would resign his seat, the orator
proceeded to talk with great rapidity about
something else. It happens that the gentle-
man had a majority of fully 69 in a four-
cornered combat and a poll of 8032 votes.
[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, John
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-streit, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
THE ELECTIONS—AND AFTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ob, listen to the candidate.
The free and fluent candidate,
From whom the virtues radiate,
AVho stands there in his perfect state,
And fills the high and spacious hall
With eloquence and poetry.
Oh hear the words of wisdom fall—•
’Tis Solon ! Solomon ! They call
Forth wonder. In a flash we see
’Tis he! ’Tis he!
The candidate with shining brow
And burning cheek uplifts his hand,
And tells the gaping thousands how
One yet may save the stricken land.
One of such gifts, such golden wit,
They think perchance the seer may be
A Lincoln, Cromwell-—or a Pitt,
Disraeli or a Fox, is it?
He strikes his breast; astounded we
Behold ’tis he!
The candidate with eyes elate,
And face transfused with faith sublime,
Of one he tells will serve the State,
And make her glorious for all time.
In him a poet’s heart we’ll find,
A flawless soul of prophecy—
A Maehiavelli’s force combined
AVith Milton's soul and Marx’s mind.
Where may this poet statesman be?
’Tis hel ’Tis he!
The people hear, and give once more
Their perfect vote of confidence.
Then comes the day. The fight is o’er—
Another man has preference!
Now in a little corner shop,
One, aproned, sells the people tea,
A pound of soap, a mug, a mop.
And suavely prophesies a drop
In eggs—-now quoted one-and-three.
’Tis hel ’Tis he!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
EXCEPT FOR TURTLE SOUP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Guildhall banquet to-night there were 400
guests. The banquet was on the most modest pro-
portions as regards food. Except for turtle soup
the same meal could have been had anywhere fur
3s. 6d. — Cable.
The stern old days are back again
(Except for turtle soup).
On Spartan faro we feast amain
(Except for turtle soup).
Oh, plant potatoes in the yard
And be assured our lot is hard—
All luxuries to us are barred
(Except the turtle soup) 1
AA'e love the turtle and his ways.
(Bear in the turtle soup!)
He never hurries all his days
(But he's on time for soup!).
And as we sip with pompous fuss,
We seem like him, he seems like us —
Slow men and turtles miss the 'bus
And wallow in Life’s soup.
x.s.w.
OCCASIONAL SPARTAN.


Two Splendid
Australian Shilling Novels.
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A first-class Australian mining story by one of the best and most popular
Australian authors. It tells of life in the early days of the Harrier, when
“any ironstone rise was pegged and worked and boomed.” Into this strenuous
pioneering is introduced Alice Power, a poor but refined Adelaide girl who.
engaged by an agency as a “companion to an elderly lady,” discovers on
arrival that she is the only woman on the field and that she is required
merely as a barmaid to a disreputable shanty. She becomes the centre of
interest in an exciting series of happenings.
By BRODA REYNOLDS.
Farmer Pike went to Sydney for the Show. The news got around that
he was returning with prize stock for his selection. The whole district turned
out to meet him and his purchases on his return. Hut instead of prize stock,
he returned with nothing more than a camera and photographic paraphernalia,
expressing his intention of abandoning farming and making his fortune with
the camera. Ilis attempts to photograph everybody and everything in the
countryside are full of sparkling humor. But into this hilarious storv enters
the pathetic figure of a very ill young swaggie. He provides some entirely
unexpected surprises for the reader, and, incidentally, a pretty little love story.
II- EACH.
ALL BOOKSTALLS
and BOOKSELLERS.
1/1 posted
from Publishers.
THESE ARE ONLY TWO of
One Hundred Australian Shilling Novels
in the "BOOKSTALL” SERIES.
Australia’s Most Popular Fiction Library.
Over 1,500,000 Copies Sold.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
Electric Meters
and Instruments
Meters and Instruments of all types are designed,
manufactured, and tested at Trafford Park,
Manchester, by the British Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
There are sufficient types for you to select one
exactly suited to your requirements whether for
switchboard or portable use.
They are sensitive without being delicate and
perfectly dead beat.
They embody all the latest improvements in their
design and construction. They are given a high
grade finish and present a pleasing appearance.
They combine ideal simplicity with permanent
accuracy, unimpaired by temperature changes,
throughout a long life.
Portable types are compact and light, in neatly
finished dust-proof cases.
The accuracy of Westinghouse meters is a safe-
guard against loss of revenue and theiV use reduces
inspection and maintenance costs to a minimum.
The highest grade of measuring instruments is
the only grade for your purpose.
SEND YOUR ENQUIRIES TO NEAREST OFFICE.
rstinohcnsr
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents :
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.,
77. King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co., Ltd.,
Williams Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co.. Ltd..
27-31. Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder. Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents in New Zealand: Turnbull and Jones, Ltd.,
Wellington, Auckland. Christchurch, and Dunedin.
|lllltlM!llltll!lllllllimil!lllllllI!lllirilllfllllllllll!lll|lilllllllllllllllll!|||||||1||||ll!1lllll||||||||||||||||
Works Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD-SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE, AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general syihptoms of worms are a
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching in the anus. Other symptoms are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply
pointed than the ground worm.
Young people are more subject to these
worms than middle-aged or elderly people.
They live in the bowels, and sometimes make
their way into the stomach and throat, caus-
ing sickness, vomiting and choking. Gener-
ally one or two would be the most a person
would be afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger number is met with. The length
varies from four to eight inches, but young
ones an inch to tw T o inches long are also
found. The first thing to do is to rid the
system of the worms, and Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according to
directions, are an effective remedy for the
thorough eradication of the long round or
stomach worm —the common enemy of the
child, the youth, the middle-aged and aged.
A light, nourishing diet, out-of-door exercise,
and, if possible, a change of air, will greatly
improve the general health.
Thpeadw’orms or pinworms are of very
common occurrence in children. They are
very small, from one-sixth of an inch to half-
an-inch in length, and resemble cotton
thread —they are sometimes called seat
worms, and reside in the lower bowels. The
chief symptom of this worm is severe local
itching, restlessness and irritability, and a
frequent desire to urinate, picking at the
nose ; loss of appetite and anaemia are also
observed. To get rid of the worms and their
eggs their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according
to directions, on an empty stomach, followed
by a dose of opening medicine, will succeed
where others fail.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are packed with full directions, and
are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 3s. 6d. per packet, or six
packets for 205., and if unable to obtain
locally will be mailed post free on receipt of
price. Prepared only by The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.;
Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
AN AUSTRALIAN PRODUCT.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS have been manufactured entirely in Australia
for the past i 5 years, and it is safe to say that nowhere in any country is a better pill made,
both as regards high-grade ingredients, splendid efficiency and general appearance. They
are packed in the well-known Amber Bottle, not in cheap wooden or cardboard boxes, and there-
fore are unaffected by climatic changes, and reach the public in perfect condition. It may be stated,
also, the ownership of this preparation is all British. It is not for these reasons the merits of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are urged on the attention of the public (although good
in themselves), but rather for the reason that they are a high-grade preparation, effective for all
classes of the community, both rich and poor. A millionaire can get nothing better at any price
to aid in the digestion and assimilation of his food. They cleanse the system, purify the blood,
and are a safe, certain and reliable remedy for all complaints arising from overeating or overdrink-
ing, or from any other cause that has dislocated the digestive machine. They are sold at a price
within the reach of all.


Cleverly directed treachery and other bril-
liant deviltries may win temporary suc-
cesses. but only efficiently equipped moral
force can win the war. opines that wisdom-
inspiring spirit King George IV. topnotch
Scotch.— -Adyt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
No razor’s edge has ever
been ground to that ex-
quisitely fine keenness you
get with the hard yet flexible
wafer blade of the
- NO STROPPING - NO HONING
It took many years to make this per*
feet Gillette blade. But every Gillette
user knows what a pleasure it has
added to shaving. Take a packet
home to-night. Sold in cardboard
cartons.
British made. Write for f?ee Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. Hoffnung & Co.. Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Saefty Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
TRADE
KNOWN THfi
WORLD OVER
MESH
MARKED.
DISTANCE
approaching
PUTTING.
MADE BY THE
WORTHINGTON
BALL CO.
Three-point Creen 31dwt. sinks.
Three-point Orange 29dwt. sinks.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
Sold by the Leading Sport* Depots
and Professionals throughout Australia.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA (Wholesale only):
R.S. COUCHE&CO.
SYDNEY:
«1 PITT STREET*
MELBOURNE:
i 95 FUNDERS LANE-
©
2H
as
»*vC<
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
One result of three successive Saturdays’
racing in Sydney is that three well-known jockeys
are standing down—one of them, Lillyman, for two
years. There were unusual circumstances in the
case of the holiday granted to A. Wood at Moore-
field last week. He had the mount on Earlsan, in
the Kogarah Stakes, and after winning was car-
peted for crossing a couple of outsiders too sud-
denly. While the subject was in the air, so to
speak, Wood had a ride on Kenilera in the next
event, and brought the rank outsider in at the
right end. After hearing that he had won he
heard that he wouldn’t do it any more for a month.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup winner Sasanoff was a
starter with 9st. 51b. in a field of moderate sprinters
at Moorefield (Sydney) on Saturday, and was fairly
well backed, too. What reason there was apart
from the quality of some of the others to expect
Sasanoff to show the way to gallop six furlongs was
a conundrum nobody could answer. However, the
nag explained the matter himself by watching them
all home but one.
* * * *
Recent expectations that the juvenile Dick
Meagher would be heard of during the summer
reached the bull’s-eye. He won at Moorefield on
Saturday—the third win in three starts on Sydney
suburban courses since October 27. As this latest
effort meant carrying 9st. 81b. and nothing else had
a look-in, the question of what the handicapper is
going to do next can only be guessed at. Anyway,
if it induces Richard to take a rest no great harm
will be done the colt.
* * * *
Accidentally killed in the Straits Settle-
ment lately, Mat Harris, a leading Australian jockey
20 years ago. Among his wins were the Victorian
Derby, Champion Stakes and A.J.O. St. Leger on
Amberite, the Maribvrnong Plate on Yarran, Aus-
tralian Cup on Coil, Champion Stakes on Melos, and
Debutant Stakes on Wigelmar.
“Arthur R.”: A young telegraph operator
who was sent to Flemington course the day before
Derby Day to test the instruments was interrupted
in his duties by a loud humming noise. He looked
out and saw an immense biplane circling above the
tracks. He returned thoughtfully to his work, and
his pal at the other end of the wire, to give him a
chance to adjust the instrument, started transmitting
the accepted horses for the Cup. The first name to
be ih any way readable was Westeourt. The young
man backed his belief in omens and now sits in
the shade of his winnings.
“Snaffle” : A Melbourne man, better known
in business and golfing than in racing circles, drew
Bronzetti in the sweep on the Caulfield Cup pro-
moted by his golf club. Not knowing a good thing
when he was on one, he promptly sold out. But he
stopped to think when he drew the same horse in
the sweep at the Australian Club. It was worth
£75 to him.
* * * *
“Mark Lane”; When it was known that
W. H. McLaehlan was to ride Westeourt in the Mel-
bourne Cup several reputable citizens (besides me)
who believe in racing coincidences had our bit on
the son of Bright Steel. McLaehlan had previously
won on Prince Foote and Comedy King, and the
“court” in the name of this year’s winner was taken
as the office. Got 12’s for my few thousands, and was
able to have beer with my porridge for days after-
wards.
li. J. Mason, trainer of Biplane, ought to
know his business. He has been mixed up with horse
since he was a kid, which is a day or two ago, for
he is 64 now. It was with a racing vet. named
Fawns at Wellington (M.L.) that he first got the
hang of his calling, and later he was with the
Staffords at Nelson. At the meeting there in honor
of the Duke of Edinburgh young Dick Mason, on a
mare named Lacenfeed, beat the famous Peeress in a
match and got his hand shaken by the Royal per-
sonage. From ’72 to ’77 he was first jockey for old
Henry Redwood, and among other things won what
was then called the Canterbury Derby on Papapa.
In the following year he brought the Traducer
mares Calumny and Lurline to Australia, and
sold them at Melbourne. He was trainer lor
different people during the next dozen years,
among his winners of that period being Spade
Guinea, whose annexation of the M.L. Cup for Alt
Drake put several odds-mongers into deep mourning.
From ’B7 until the death of G. G. Stead he was in
charge of that well-known citizen’s nags, and with
them won big races with monotonous regularity. At
the Canterbury Spring meeting of 1904 horses
trained by Mason got away with 12 firsts, and in
the next year helped themselves to a third of the
menu at Randwick. After Stead passed out Mason
took over the Greenwood horses. He is very careful
and painstaking with his prads, and long ago came
to the conclusion that you can never be sure of the
winner until one of them’s past the post.
■» * * *
“Monkbarns”: The first Melbourne races
were over the expanse where the Spencer-street rail-
way yard now is, near Batman’s Hill, which was cut
down for railway convenience. An early move was
made out to Flemington. Yet the advantage of the
hill there was not perceived at first, the grandstand
and finish for a number of years being placed on
the south side of the course, near the Saltwater
River. Then Secretary Bagot apparently recom-
mended the change over to the hill, which is now,
by the way, about twice the size of the original
pimple.
* * * *
The honor of being first to break the minute
in Sydney swimming this season belongs to K.
Kirkland, who won the Spit Club’s 100yds. splash on
Saturday in 59see. At last year’s school champion-
ships young Kirkland won the 50yds., was second at
440yds. and third at 100yds. Saturday’s time shows
9sec. improvement between summers.
Muller, the former Danish officer and
recent physical-culture expert of London, has put up
a remarkable half-hour’s performance on, in and by
the Thames. He set himself the task of covering in the
time half a mile of river and bank six times—
running, walking and cycling, sculling, canoeing and
swimming. At the second attempt, he managed it
with 40sec. to spare. And Muller is a man of 51,
with a son in the British army.
*. * * *
Passed out lately at Beecroft (N.S.M.),
aged 68, John Wallace, who for many years was
treasurer, and afterwards president, of the Commer-
cial Travellers’ Association in the Ma State. As
president his name figures on the. foundation-stone
of the big club building in Sydney, laid by Gov. Rawson
in 1908. They used to reckon John Wallace a cham-
pion all-round athlete in Ayrshire (Scotland) half
a century ago; but of recent days his sport had
been bowls. He founded clubs at Randwick and
Beecroft, and being a canny man wi’ the siller, as
well as a devotee, he was treasurer of the N. S.
Wales Bowling Assoc. In his spare time he was
(among other things) a Scotchbyterian elder.
“S.T.S.” The late Colin Blythe was a
good judge as well as a good bowler. I remember
him summing up the chances of an Australian slow
bowler very much of his own type, who had just
risen to test-match rank, and was talked of for the
next English trip. “No good for England,” he said,
confidently. “All right here, where time doesn’t
matter. But your lot want to win matches, not
draw them. This chap gets batsmen out because
thev take risks with him. If they don’t, he never
would ; and, with a weak county playing for a draw
on the third day, he’d be no use to you at all.”
That Blythe’s judgment was ' considered sound is
shown by the fact that the bowler he criticised was
left out of every Australian XI.
* * * *
Killed in Palestine, Albert Cotter, who a
bit over a dozen years ago burst into Australian
cricket with a lightning-like delivery. Cotter first
plaved for N. S. Wales against Vie. in 1904. and
in the next year, in his opening game with an
English Eleven, took five wickets for 44. That put
him definitelv in the limelight and the Test Matches.
Two trips to England followed. When Cotter took
the bat he hit ’em six at a time or didn’t get any.
He was born in Sydney 33 years ago.
* * * *
S. H. Emery (of Petersham), who smote
Balmain’s crack bowlers on Saturday while piling
up 118 runs, is another player pulled from “retire-
ment.” When the first-flighters dropped out of
international cricket over the rumpus with the Board
of Control, Emery was among the young bloods
pushed upwards, and he tripped with the 1912 Aus-
tralian XI. Like many of the team, he made little
success on English wickets. In those days Emery
was an erratic “Bosie” bowler; this season his
weight is behind the bat and he has scored 188 in
three hits. His latest whack included 54 in boundary
smacks —the kind of cricket which helps the bar-
rack ers to delirium.
* * * *
Jack Scott, the wild bowler from Peter-
sham, helped “Noss” Iredale to put up a queer
record in Sydney grade cricket a week ago. Scott
sent down seven no balls in seven overs, and Iredale
was caught off four of them—twice by wicketkeeper
Quinney. In three matches this season Scott has
• helped the enemy with 14 no-halls and one wide;
and his tally of 36 no-balls last season easily stands
as the record in Sydney cricket. Scott’s greatest
match effort was 11 no-balls against North Svdney
last season, but as the hurricane hasn’t yet learnt how
to prevent itself dragging over the line, this may
yet be rubbed out by something better.
* * * *
Noel Hathaway, who won the “under 16”
75yds. handicap at Sydney A.A.A. meeting on Satur-
day, ought never 'to be late for school. In champion-
ships recently he won the “under 16” 100yds. com-
bined High Schools’ event and was third in the
Senior sprint; while at the P.S.A.A.A. meeting he
won N. S. Wales schools championship. Last year
Hathaway won the “under 15” championship, and
by arriving first in 440yds. championship put up an
“age record” of 59see. The claim that the youngster
is the best “all rounder” of his age rests on per-
formances at running, tennis, cricket, football and
boxing.
“R.C.D.”: Make way in the most versatile
sport controversy for “Poiey” Evans. 1 rom ’9B to
’l3 “Poiey” walloped sixers and kept wickets for
Bananaland, and although never selected for a test
match he played for Australia against an English
XI. From ’95 to ’99 he wore the State’s maroon
guernsey and booted the ball for Australia also.
He and another were runners-up in Bananaland
doubles tennis championship, going under to the
brilliant Todd brothers. Now “Poiey” has become
addicted to bowls, and though still in the novice
class, climbed into the semi-final of the Pairs cham-
pionship of Bananaland with a partner who is not
even a good B grade player. “Poiey” thus threatens
to be a big nuisance to bowling pothunters. *
Until he was 40 E. A. Brown, a stockily-
built, red-faced resident of Sydney, had no holidays.
Since then he has been getting two or three weeks
each vear, and employs the time-off travelling about
N. S. Wales bv boot'. In the 15 years that have
elapsed since he contracted this habit Brown has
spent 144 days laboriously walking about the land-
scape, and the onlv difference he finds is that he
is in better nick than when he started. The story
of these walks has been codified with great pre-
cision, and shows that Brown has been transported
by his legs over 4237 miles, has visited 580 definite
“places” in the State, slept at 94 pubs, refused a
lift 63 times, climbed 24 mountains, and written
up 10 volumes of notes by the wayside. It all
makes an unusual story of patience, endurance and
simple pleasure. But it doesn’t seem to be a busi-
ness leading to conviviality. Brown is a lone-
handed holiday-maker, and after mature reflection has
come to the conclusion that there is more sport
about it alone than with a crowd of two or more.
ALBERT LLOYD, Middleweight Pug.
Some of those expeditious individuals who can
do 50 or 100 miles between sun-up and dark may be
interested to know that Brown reckons 40 miles
is a mighty good journey, and he has done this
distance and up to 50 on 16 occasions. The greatest
drawback to foot travelling he reckons is thirst —
and the worst enemies of thirst are a shut mouth
with a piece of chewing-gum in it. Booze he
leaves alone till the end of the day’s plod, and
then patronises it in very diluted and elongated form.
As for grub, he starts cech day on an empty
stomach, carries a snack with him, and approaches
the evening meal with a clear conscience. His
strolls have carried him all the way along the coast
from Eden to Tweed Heads, 924 miles; from Gos-
ford to Coff’s Harbor, 345 ; Newcastle to Glen Innes,
318; Wiseman’s to Mount Kosciusko, 365; Sydney
to Dubbo, 311. He has been out in all weathers,
carried an umbrella 3000 miles, come to the conclu-
sion that the only sure way of getting anywhere
is to walk there, and acquired a big stock of infor-
mation about the country he lives in. And he
reckons it has all been well worth while.
* * » #
Pilot Stutt’s return flight from Point
Cook (Vic.) to Richmond (N.S.W.) last week in
7hr. 20min. cut a time-record niche in Australian
aeronautics. Stutt put up the previous “best”
(9hr. 32min.) on the forward voyage a week pre-
viously. Also he made new figures for Australia
with a non-stop flight of 342 miles between Coota-
mundra and Richmond. In the Curtis biplane Stutt
climbed too high to be troubled by air pockets and
suction valleys over the mountains of the southern
ranges, and this helped him to put the Southern
express badly to shame.
* * * •
This season’s championship among the 18-
footers on the register of the Sydney Sailing Club
was won by Scot. Scot was lucky. When Mavis
was 100 seconds ahead, with the race as good as
won, her peak halyards carried away. But the most
interesting item of the day was not on the official
programme. This was a police raid on the steamers
following the race and among the spectators on Clark
Island. The sports got wind of the Hops’ visit and
only five arrests were made. As it is illegal to bet
on sailing races, the police thought it necessary to
organise an elaborate offensive to catch the evildoers,
although at the same hour several thousands of people
were furiously betting at Moorefield and Victoria
Park. Why not build a stylish tote on Clark Island
and so make money out of the punters? The boats
are as honest as the ponies, anyway.
The war which has been raging between
Sydney and Newcastle bowling clubs for a long time
seems in danger of being declared off. Pourparlers
from Sydney have been received by Newcastle in
an amiable spirit, and there was hope last week that
by Christmas peace might again be proclaimed. The
row was all about Pennant play and the conditions
governing championships. The Newcastle bowlers
struck at the first trace of opposition, but are now
feeling more reasonable.
Tom Bouchard, a mighty bowier of
Bananaland, has a great record in championship
events and is still playing well. Last vear h„ ,
the State singles championship from 104 comn P tit!I 0n
and with Howard Southern as offsider
bauble for the pairs championship, as well . V l!
ping the team that paid second money in the
championship. This year he missed the lot but h
been doing some great work for his team in m
Pennant competition. During the past in lne
Bouchard has won the singles championshin thr?
times, skipped the winning pair twice, and nilotwi
team to victory in the rink championshin four S a
-a record that is perhaps better than that of anv
other youngster in the game in Australia He ml
represented South Brisbane in the Legislative a,
but the job interfered with bowls, and he gave it
up. When off the green he passes the time roller,
ing 6s. Bd. u '
* * *
“Trooper”: May I recommend soap and
raspberry jam as an embrocation for boxers ? On our
ship going across we discovered a crank from Banana
land who had kidded himself that he was a second
Les Darcy. The boxers on board got themselves
knocked out one by one, and the joke helped to keen
us alive until another ring lunatic was discovered at
the other end of the ship. The boys were rubbing
Les the Second down with soap and jam in prepara-
tion for the ship’s championship, when the doctor
solemnly examined both champions and had his joke
—he pronounced them medicaly unfit for boxing at
sea. But by the time we reached the Channel thev
were threatening to meet in England and decide the
championship of the Dry Earth.
"Captain”; I recommend a speck of an
island some few miles out from the north-east
coast of New Guinea for pigeon-shooting. Some
boys from a coastal village robed me across one
afternoon, describing the spot as ‘‘Plenty quiet night
he come, pigeon he come, go plenty sleep one time,"
and cracked up the birds as “Good fella kai-kai
Plenty grease stop longa him.” The boys pulled
through a rocky tunnel, quite dark most of the wav
suddenly emerging into a tiny basin with a snowy
beach in the centre of the island. We scrambled up
a steep track and awaited the arrival of the “good
fella kai-kai.” Just at dusk it came, the stillness
broken by the beat of countless wings, and one got
the impression that the island was linked to the
mainland by a broad band of living birds. As they
arrived they circled round and round the treetops
ere alighting, and even the sound of the gun didn't
scare ’em away. In next to no time I had
potted enough for our needs (and I’m nothing to
write a poem about as a wing shot). As the niggers
laid to the oars homeward-bound darkness fell, but
right to that time the flight was thick. Wouldn’t
some of our pigeon-shooting “sports” revel in that
opportunity of butchery!
“Copabella”: Since our more or less
Freetrade Government won’t build a tariff wall high
enough to keep out the oversea manufactured article
(or the Australian manufacturer won’t make an
article good enough to render the imported one un-
saleable —I’ve heard both arguments) the importer
might at least make a pretence of recognising Aus-
tralian customs in his advts. A recent large and
expensive advt. gave a picture of a scene in which
processions of motors were meeting one another on
the right side of the road! Even if the indentors
can’t stand the work of Australian artists they
might at least get their foreign ones to learn the
first principles of Australian traffic laws before they
put them on to the roads.
* * * #
It is not only politicians that can do a
hit of crayfishing in Hobart without leaving the
town. An' angler took his tackle down to the
Argyle-street wharf the other day, and within an
hour and a half had yanked out 11 fine crays.
DISSIPATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know but little of the horse,
Save that, by rule, four legs are his;
He lives on cabbages, of course,
And is employed in circuses.
That much I know, and all the y r ear
Regardless of his lure I go
My simple guileless way, and care
Not twopence who his fathers were,
What time he takes, what weight will bear,
Till comes the Spring’s delusive throe.
Then Caulfield rattles at my ear;
A something sparkles in my veins,
The sporting column grows most dear,
I hearken to the tipsters’ strains,
I dream of breathless races won
By noses long or short, and slam!
To reckless dissipation run,
Back Carbine’s daughter’s second son,
Or any son of any gun
That someone mentions in a tram!
The second Cup is yet more gay.
In horsey clothes and with a glass,
Transformed like Bottom in the play
To something very like an ass,
I talk of horse, the boxers praise,
And even buy a brace of pups....
My yearly savings in a blaze
Go up... . It’s over. Shamed for days
I creep back to my olden ways.
Oh, I’m disgraceful in my Cups!
VICTORIA.
B. T.


BE A HARD-HITTING. SKILFUL.
FORCEFUL BOXER
°Pt er wo !' ds > a re °l man—a man able to stand up for his rights, if
need be, and deal out more than he receives.
You’ve surely seen many cases where MIGHT WAS RIGHT, where
a great rough “bully" unjustly attacked an inoffensive individual.
Just imagine if you were to be goaded by the insults of a “bully"
until your self-respect could stand no more. How would you get on
ln <scra P” that followed? Could you stand up to your man,
confident of your ability to “out" him, or would you be nervous on
account of your lack of knowledge of the Noble Art?
Now, to be forewarned is to be forearmed. You w 7 ill do well in
learning to box—in knowing just when and how to hit —how to stop
a rusher—how to land a knock-out.
I Teach Boxing by Post
and will quickly develop your natural skill. Why
not be one of my pupils? The instruction is prac-
tical, simple and easily understood. It thoroughly
explains and illustrates every serviceable “move” in
Scientific Boxing.
You leap the benefit of my many years’ experi-
ence and keen observation of the best “moves” of
the world’s best boxers.
You ought to write for my illustrated Booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives
fuller particulars, cost of tuition, etc. Just write
your name and address on this advertisement, and
post to me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L.
(“Snowy”)
BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
652 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
MANILA MANILAS
MANUFACTURED IN MANILA
fm
*
In the following Renowned Factories: —
COMPANY GENERAL.
Especiales (in Foil) .... 12/6 Box of 25.
Perfectos . ... 11/6
Camelias 10/- >, » >»
MONTANESA (Extra Heavy-
weights ).
Boxes of 100 31/6
LA MINERVA (Watt & Co.).
Specially Recommended.
Perfectos 11/- Box of 25.
Cheroots (Cortado Reina) 24/- >» » 100.
Postage extra on above: Boxes of 25, 6d.
Boxes of 100, 1/-
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
Cigar and .Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,”
Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
tjcv:
THE CHOICE
Of THE PEOPLE
THE WORLD’S BEST
V\\\V
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
Indian
Catalogue " D/' with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. £«>:
109*113 RUSSELL ST.. MELBOURNE.
ii'idtey° u
When you feed your engine—the “heart” of your Car —with
BENZINE
—a spirit “live” with energy and “drive” —you are assuring for
yourself most miles per gallon and troubleless running. Try
“National” with YOUR Cdr —you’ll note its quicker “pick up,” its
Greater Driving Force & Cleanliness
with the first gallon you use.
Obtainable all Garages & Storekeepers .
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
•TAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
tM
_ Sti <£jwjs
:iV.vv.
?fia
3S£*
<:«*8
&&
r>
a»
<?~*3
§ll2lll
g||
■ .-:
H
m
M
.
lis
Wm
f"L
H
■
\
\
A %.
sgfc&leA "'’s^l
r*, *v „ • **>•£ f
■ ';■■:*■ ."■'"^:-y :
•/'• sv
I' :.Vfc>
.<*Vj
.
S'«
V-‘-' v
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
Price 2/6 bottle
The “Stockman?
R“*“g mMb
A:
v/////.
///
/
/ V
■/s'
'V
S's
'■/,
m
. ■ -
3*BB
’O.
m
& £
m
y%
■'/'
&
y<' '•*.
Isf constructed
pleasoned Calf, with Elas-
- tie.. Sid«Cand : Double
Tagfj-'DustV and Water-
'iaerViMablefeasy to pull.
“Stock--
that_flo
. Australian horse ma n
- should be -without." Ob-
tainable in all sizes.
.ft
cKtnatm
is also obtainable ih
Tan Willow Calf at 1816. Don’t fail to
have “Your” Size
Lincoln,! Stuart & Co.
- “Outfitters by Mail”!!!. , - «
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne,


The Onoto
is a Real
Xmas Gift!
This Christmas don’t
give useless presents,
however pretty they
may look. Give some-
thing that will be ap-
preciated and used by
all who receive it —
an Onoto Self-filling
Safety Fountain Pen.
The Onoto fills itself
from any ink supply,
cannot leak, and
cleans itself in filling.
The ink flow can be re-
gulated to suit any style
of writing.
Can you give a better pre-
sent? Can you think of
anything else that will be
used every day for a life-
time than this British-
made Fountain Pen.
Price, 14/6
at all Stationers, Jewellers
and Stores.
Onoto
Self-fining - -
Safety Fountain A Vi M
Manufacturers THOS. DE
LA RUE & CO., Ltd.. Bunhill
Row. Loudon, E C. Managing
Agents N .rmati Baker &
Longhurst. 50 York St. Sydney
A
Crown
Deal.
Government
Purchase
of
Rabbit
SKins.
Prices lOd. to 27d. lb.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY. ITO
CHRISTIES
zP£CML/se
Th/O
LIMES
I# 5
S'
wL
CATALOGUE
ptfO
PATTERNS^
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES ’
Tke STRAND .
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
U /WAITER S T NEWCASTLE
QUEENSLAND’S HOT SPRINGS
FOR RHEUMATISM
CHRONIC INDIGESTION g GOUT.
Testimonials and Particulars—
LINGLEY’S HOTEL, Muckadilla.
BELLEVUE HOTEL.
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens,
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
The Balance-sheet of the Bank, as on 30th September last and the Profit and Loss Account for m
Half-vear which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders lor the
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, including ±,11,376/15/7 for Income, Land and Kot
Taxes, and contributions to War Funds, amounted to .. • • • • • • .. .. £ri ■ — e
es, anu cuuuiuuLiuna w " t . -
Add Balance brought forward from previous half-year
■ ±-84,488 12
i a aq a
It is proposed* to appropriate the profit for the Half-year, £84.483/12/3, as follows:—-
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (increasing it to £675,060) .. £25,000 0
Reduction of Bank Premises Account . • • • • • • • • • 5,000 0
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares .. 10,702 6
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares .. 41,735 8
£98,183 sjo
0
0
0
0
" - £g9 i j
Leaving £2,050/18/3, which, added to £13,694/13/7, brought forward from the 4 0
previous Half-year, makes the total to carry forward.. .. .. .. .. 15,745 li 15
During the Half-vear the Branches at Port Germein, South Australia, and Doodlakine, Western \i!°
tralia, were closed, aiid replaced by Receiving Offices. A Receiving Office was opened at Elwoo'd, Victoria’
and a similar office at Dardanup, Western Australia, was withdrawn.
The total number of the Bank’s Staff who have been accepted for service with the Australian Imperial
Forces is now 347. of whom 31 have joined since our last Report.
It is recorded with much regret that in all 42 of our Officers have been killed in action or died of
ounds,-including 19 during the past Half-year, viz.:—
Lieutenant V. B. Daniel, Accountant, Claremont.
2nd Lieutenant V. F. Doran, pro Accountant, \\ yalkatchem.
Sergeant G. H. Barr, Ledger-keeper, Boort.
Sergeant F. M. Bullock, Teller, Nuriootpa.
Sergeant W. Leech, pro Accountant, Port Melbourne.
Corporal D. A. Hendry, Clerk, Quairading.
Corporal E. F. Tregurtha. Accountant, Goomalling.
Lance-corporal C. H. Noel, Ledger-keeper, Albany.
Lance-corporal D. J. Swan, Probationer. Perth.
Gunner W. G, Dow, Ledger-keeper, Sydney.
Private W. E. Beard, Clerk, Kalgoorlie.
Private A. J. Coombs, Clerk, Perth.
Private F. S. Hoyle. Clerk, Salisbury.
Private P. Loxton, Accountant, Corowa.
Private H. K. Marshall. Ledger-keeper, Claremont.
Private S. J. B. May, Clerk, Perth.
Private J. A. O'Hara, Clerk, Melbourne.
Private T. H. Ord, Clerk. Melbourne.
Private W. Wallace. Clerk, Bairnsdale.
The following additional casualties have occurred during the Half-year:—
Wounded: —Lieutenants R. T. V. Moon, V.C., C. R. Allanson, E. R. Etherton, W. R. Harburn and
H. I. Tavlor; Company-Sergeant-Major R. Harrington, D.C.M.; Corporals G. S. Green, H R
Mackenzie and H. .T. Scott; Gunner R. H. Ayliffe; Troopers F. M. Blackwell and R. L. D
Bonnar; Ambulance Driver Daisy B. Waddell, M.C. ; and Privates W. J. Bell, A. S. Harrapj
D. B. Manning and F. K. Taylor.
Missing: Privates F. M. Clement and C. M. Cox.
Prisoner of War: Lieutenant -T. E. A. Stuart.
The following additional Military distinctions have been gained :
Lieutenant-Colonel J. Walstab: Companion of Distinguished Service Order.
Captain R. Hemingway: Military Cross.
Lieutenant R. T. V. Moon: Victoria Cross.
Companv Sergeant-Major R. Harrington: Distinguished Conduct Medal.
Ambulance Driver Daisy B. Waddell: Military Cross of France, with Star added.
It will be observed that Lieutenant R. T. V. Moon, who was connected with Maffra branch, has won
the much-coveted V.C. distinction.
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Bank, Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, on Weclnesdav, 7th November, at noon.
At that Meeting the Shareholders will be asked to increase the remuneration of the Directors, in
terms of the advertisement in the Melbourne newspapers convening the Meeting. The present remuneration
fs £lOOO p.a. whilst there are four Directors, and £1250 if there are five Directors. These rates have
been in force since 1871, and it is now proposed to increase them to £l6OO p.a. whilst there are four
Directors, and to £2OOO p.a. should there he five.
By order of the Board,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited, E. H. WREFORD. Chief Manager.
Head Office: Melbourne, 25th October, 1917.
BALANCE-SHEET of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1917.
(Including London Office to August 11, 1917, and Western Australian Branches to September 10, 1917.)
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’
Capital—•
30,578 preference
shares, paid in
money to £lO
per share,
£ 3 0 5,7 8 0;
238,488 ordi-
nary shares,
paid up to £5
per share,
£1,192,440.. £1,498.220 0 0
To Reserve Fund
Account . . 650,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss
Account . . 98,183 5 10
To notes in cir-
culation .. £32.843 10 0
To bills in circu-
lation.. .. 744.249 17 7
T o Government
Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest, £104,359
0/2: bearing
interest,
£1,562,926/17/9 1,667,285 17 11
To Other De-
posits—
Not bearing
interest,
£5,015,058/12/1;
bearing inter-
£2,246,403 5 10
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion,
Australian Notes,
and cash at
bankers, and
money at short
call in London £3,276,942 7 11
By Government
municipal, and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and funds 1,798,283 5 9
By bills and re-
mittances i n
transitu . . 1,076,976 19 2
By notes and bills
of other banks 2,245 15 7
By balances due
from other banks
By duty stamps
Cr.
138,850 0 9
5,961 14 5
£6,299,260 3
By real estate, consisting of Ifrnk
premises
est, £5,763,587
15/10
To interest ac-
crued and rebate
on current bills
To balances due
to other banks
10,778,646 7 11
By other real estate
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts ~
383,517 3 1
28,313 5
9,051,550 12
144,455 6 6
148,756 19 6
13,516,237 19 5
£15,762,641 5 3
To contingent liabilities, as per
contra, £556,502/10 8.
By liability, in the form of
guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria)
sold in London, and which are
being duly provided for by sink-
ing funds in terms of the Act
authorising their issue, £21,000,
and liabilities of customers and
others on letters of credit and
guarantees, £535,502/10/8, as per
contra, £556,502/10/8.
£15,762,611 5
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head, office, 165
branches, and 50 agencies .. £111,294 11 6
To income, land and note taxes .. 11,376 15 7
To balance .. .. .. .. 98,183 5 10
Bv balance brought forward
By gross profits including recov-
eries. less rebate on bills current,
interest paid and accrued on de-
posits, repairs to premises, and
rent
£220,854 12 11
£13,691 13
207,159 19
£220,854 12 1
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£650,000 0 0
£650,000 0 0
By balance last half-year
By transfer from profit and loss..
£630,000 9
20,000 0
£650,000 0
The Customary Auditorial Report and the Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager to comp,
with the Companies Acts (Victoria) appear on the Official Report.
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manage-
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES. BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE . PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITfcS MAY b« SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it tc be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
Wear 7
( T ossard
U CORNETS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat'
in* Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark-
F
OR OUR
BOYS.—When
SICK AND gg'S
ouis. — >»mru you have 1 Uf"nrdoch,
this paper, kindly post to t ol °° ia street,
Red Cross Commissioner, oi ' lCtOl
London, E.C.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., ’lO. .£4424 10 p.c.=£2486 £386 £1552 £lO,OBB
Premiums on new shares, £2450 . - 12,538
Mar., ’ll.. 6655 10 p.c.= 2876 1612 2167 14,705
Premiums on new shares, £2960 .. 17,665
Sept.,’ll.. 8151 10 p.c.= 3968 4183 21,848
Premiums on new shares. £ 4016 .. -5,864
Mar., ’12.. 7241 10 p.c.= 5675 956 610 26,474
Sept.,’l2.. 7773 Nil 7773 34,247
Mar.,'l3.. 7302 71p.c.= 5117 2185 36,432
Sept.,’l3.. 8653 71 „„ 5259 3394 39,826
Mar., ’14.. 6365 71 „.. 5248 1117 40,943
Sept.,’l4.. 5021 Nil 5021 45,964
Mar., ’15.. 5008 *6p.c. = 8397 42,575
Sept.,’ls.. 3655 5 „ „ 3499 156 42,731
Mar., '16.. 6014 -7 „ „ 4898 1116 43,847
Sept.,'l6.. 5936 7 „ „ 4898 1038 44,880
Mar., '17.. 8081 10 „ „ 7012 1069 40,904
Sept.,’l7.. 7982 10 „ „ 7012 970 46,9-4
”6 p.c. paid tor the full year.
Good. but. taking the uncertainties of the
future into account, not quite good enough
to justify a 10 p.c. div., unless the directors
don’t mind falling promptly to 7 or 8 p.c.
should profits decline further. Admittedly
the position has wonderfully improved. The
co. has got practically out of debt; there is
no goodwill or other similar line among the
assets: and there are reserves, apart from
the provision for doubtful debts, worth os.
Bd. per share. The balance-sheet figures are
as follows: —■
Liabilities.
Sept.,'ll. Sept.,’l6. Mar.,’l7. Sept.,’l7.
Capital. . . . £BB,BOO £140,233 £140,233 £140,233
Sundry creditors 68,323 15,951 10,914 21,549
Assets.
Freeholds .. 17,220 Nil 910 910
Stock . . .. 52,716 58,552 48,573 66,430
Sundry debtors 106,514 137,705 137,531 140,6^4
Plant, etc. .. 4,119 4,734 5,240 5,5i4
Cash and sundries 2,870 5,474 12,358 2,623
Everything, of course, depends upon stock-
taking and the value of the book debts,
which are mostly under t.p. agreements. As
to stock, the directors say that this has been
increased as “the difficulties with regard to
shipping facilities appear likely to become
more acute.” Probably they will; neverthe-
less the time certainly will come when the
market for most manufactured things will
start to crumple; and it is a problem
whether it will crumple quickly or not.
There are plenty of good judges who think
that retail prices will fall very rapidly as
dealers rush to realise before the cheap
stuff arrives from foreign places. About
the same time will begin the cold days for
Australia —how cold we shall not know until
we find out what sort of a market the ex-
hausted world offers for our staples. If
Nicholson’s can maintain the 10 p.c. then it
will be very lucky indeed, considering how
comparatively narrow the margin to-day is.
* » * *
“Derwentside” on Tasmania’s latest
hydro-electric project:—
The scheme is to dam the King River (a stream
carrying a large volume of water in the driest sea-
son), and the Public Works Committee reports that
“the existence of the important primary factors for
a water-power scheme, i.e., extensive catchment,
heavy and consistent rainfall, and good run-off seem
to have been satisfactorily established.” The catch-
ment is between two ranges and is estimated at
from 200 to 220 square miles. The success of the
works on the banks of the Derwent at Risdon to
treat zinc concentrates from Broken Hill has
prompted the West Coast proposal to erect works
of a similar character near Zeehan for treating
ores from Mount Read and Rosebery. Lindsay
Tulloch, of the Lyell and the Mount Read-Rosebery
cos.’ Boards, estimates the group of mines men-
tioned to have 900,000 tons of practically proved
ore, while geologist Loftus Hills some couple of
years ago put it down at 1,423,500 tons for the
Tasmanian Copper, Primrose, North Tasmanian Cop-
per, Hercules and Rosebery; and this estimate took
no account of the mineral country lying in between.
However, excluding this estimate, the 900,000 tons
stated by a man of whom the committee says, “it
was pleased to note there was no disposition on his
part to over-estimate ore reserves,” is surely a suffi-
cient warrant for a scheme which will have' other
mines and works as almost certain customers.
The proposed works will enable about 350 tons of
ore to be treated daily, or some 120,000 tons per
annum. The average assays of the 900,000 tons
showed 28.27 p.c. zinc, 7.35 p.c. lead, 9.400 z. silver,
0.1270 z. gold. Now, at normal prices these values
work out at about £lO per ton; and a great per-
centage of metal which is now lost will be recov-
ered. The scheme has much to recommend it, and
it must not be forgotten that the chairman of the
committee (E. Mulcahv) is known as a sound and
safe man, and is not a novice in estimating the
hazards of mining.
It now remains to be seen what the attitude of
the Legislature will be. If it turns the proposition
down, then it is time that some of us who are
sanguine gave up the little hope we still retain that
Parliaments will do the right thing. Certainly
something must be done; for even under present
war-boom conditions Treasurer Lewis has just con-
fessed to a deficit of £182,000 for our little Speck.
Who says that Lindsay Tulloch’s Mount
Lindsay tin show in the mountains behind
Renison Bell (Tas.) is dead? Hasn’t it
a 50ft. formation along which it has tun-
nelled 300 ft. in pay ore? Hasn’t it put in
a second tunnel, 20ft. deeper, well over
100 ft.. and hasn’t it got some £2OOO cash
out of the ore sold from its last little effort?
The co. owns a real live manager, and if
the mine pays with its present disadvantages
what will it do when Lindsay Tulloch gets
financial help to repeat the Read-Rosebery
scheme? But before that can happen a
proper prospecting programme of the Mount
Lyell build will be necessary to determine
whether pay ore exists in the pyrites below
the oxidised zone.
* * * *
One J. Bromley, mining engineer and
director of the Stanley Reward, has been
salving that battered hulk on the Stanley
River (Tas.). This claim fell into the
hands of tributors. who have not done badly
out of the gossan lode and its pug associate.
So Bromley advises that the co. should have
a second go at real work instead of living
on the tributor. He suggests driving along
the rich pug to rake in a few profits, and
then cutting through the big formation at odd
points to see if it lives up to a 4 or 5 p.c.
tin-oxide sampling. It sounds too good to
bo true.


©
mWm
el
mm
i
§
1/2
,/J
A
9~
.
>
itfts
.
S2ss=
'
sSfe
sfs
SI
%
m
IT IS A BEALE KALCPHQNE-
tfie musieaf instrument wnicn recreates
tfie finest efforts of tficMorlds Best
Entertainers. Tf\e fullricf tone ripples
forffl in a flood of melody as artistic
andas perfect as tfioudn ff\e actual per-
former were in fne room.
Adu will enjoy nearinci your favourite
artist on tfie ‘ BEALE KALOPHONE.
Made in many styles.
Head Office and Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bathurst. 0»"ge. Lismore. Newcastle. Goulburn and Wagga.
Victoria : Maples, tn all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania : Williams Bros . Hobart. Maples. Launceston.
Soijth Australia John Evans. Ltd.. Adelaide.
T'seccle
V_J &C? LTP
333 George St Sydney.
Factory:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST, ANNANDALE.
Queensland 9U-92 Queen Street Brisbane
Kent Street. Maryborough Flinders Street. Townsville.
Rockhampton. Sydney Street. Mackay.
Cairns.


NO ELECTRICITY.
W^~s}
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
The Lake Breeze
Motor Cooling Fan
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, hand some,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity, and is port-
able. Send for circu-
lar. Order early.
Agents wanted.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mgarx Ear Phon? numy tinies as efficient
muaii Lai rnone aiul powerful a 8 t h e old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Meara Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Hansen’s Rheumatic Remedy
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remcdv’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) 0. A. ROSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholesale: ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOMPSITT, MELBOURNE.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
FOR SALE.—ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—-no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KIRNBANK, Arthur Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
" Navy Brand
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE.
A Piquant Product,
DELICIOUS and
APPETISING.
If You Like the
‘‘NAVY’’ SAUCE
Try a
Bottle
of the
“NAVY”
PICKLES
You will like
them, too.
Write for sample bottle, enclos-
ing three penny stamps for postage
to J. PARRY cf CO., Waterloo,
Sydney.
"Name
Address
■
&
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
The “Bulletin"
Stock Saddle
AND
The "Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
They both have pigskin seat, the “G.S.”
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle
£7/0/6 Complete.
£6/15/6 without Stirrups.
£6/9/6 . ,
* v /* r / v and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 13/6; post, 1/.
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, 9d.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, if in
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The Kemp Saddle
AS USED BY
PROFESSOR KEMP
OF
BUCKJUMPING FAME.
In this saddle it is impossible for rider to
be thrown on to head of saddle, while it
also has all the benefits of stock kneepads
without their disadvantages. See how the pads are brought
high up, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts are
made in one piece of kip leather, making a wonderfully
comfortable seat. The fittings included are Solid Nickel
3B Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£B/15/ - Complete, or £B/5/ - without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Cash with order.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.
\
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
V
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit,
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
I HE habit of taking
* a half
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better—and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
k eeps y°u fit good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
2/-
2/
bottle.
bottle
per
. BR,T,SH FOR 160 YEARS
WeLlre H * throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agen.s:-
ZtopEJSSrs E CRiJStS Sc 287 - 289 ' Clarence Street, Sydney-
Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen). Ltd.. 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England-
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Plough and Harrow: “After the war, what
does The Bulletin reckon the two things most
immediately necessary in public policy ?” It's
a large order to catalogue things that way; but —
(1) Effective Protection; (2) measures to make
country life more attractive... .Jack K.: Not a bad
yarn; but it's best to let that' subject drop—or
else castigate the men responsible, and they've had
their beating... .Dingo Dick: Thanks; but heard of
a Censor ?... .H. 8.: “Progress and Study” had us
weeping... .Abbotsford: No use... .F.&.: Not up.
.... Gullabong: Doesn’t improve.... .E. 8.: “Tony”
won’t work... .8.5.: Not enough in it... .E.J.G.:
Doesn’t thrill us more than the bombing of a
potato crop... .W.L. :' Ignored as a mark of gener-
osity. .. .J.W.M.: Has no punch... ,1.R.: Fails.
. ...8.5.: Your work, like your handwriting, is too
careless... .W.K.tt.: You have something of the
knack. Get a yarn worth telling. This „is mostly
melodrama.... Brod : It does not... .M.R.K.: Goes
feebly... .W.P.Y.: Glad of your sympathy, but you
must improve your verses before we spill any beer
over them. .. .K.S.P.: Fine sketch, but much too long
for our u5e....0.8.: “Our Representatives” raises a
thrill:—
Why do they tell us to go to h —ll,
The reason is best known to themselves;
For bound to one another, they cannot tell.
Those secrets, low down, only to be tossed on the
shelves.
May the time come to have men, with strong wills,
To represent our country so free, yet so ill.
It makes one think he could drive old Bill
Far from our country, before we go through the mill.
. ...M.M,: “Wish” and “Poppies” are good verse
with an occasional flaw; but they sadly lack interest.
. ...G.W.M.: “Evening” nearly. “Love’s Gamut”
a bit rugged... .N.M.: No use.... Learner: Doesn’t
work... .E.A.C.: “Song” doesn’t sing... .Fitzmug-
gins: Feminine verse of the easy sort... .M.C.11.:
Wouldn’t leave this out for worlds: —
If we look but in Joshua, just chapter 10,
We can see there that God Himself killed more men
Than even Israel herself in His Name;
For God “sent great stones down,” it there says,
“like rain.”
.. . .H.W.M.: Heavy stuff with no lift... .M.R.8.:
Fair sketch, but not our style. .. .H.M.: Humor of
“The Bell” is too trifling. .. .The Late John Burnett:
Your verse has had sufficient publicity for the last
50 years and it’s poor enough stuff in all conscience.
Why do you rise now to try to foist it on this
paper?. .. .E.M.E.: Some promise, but not up....
U.R.: Beastly episode... .Rene C.: Might have had
a place if sent earlier... .F.E.M.: Not up....
G.H.G.M.: Nothing in that. .. ,E.J;A.J.: You’ll have
to take a lot more trouble before you succeed.
Watch your scansion... .8.C.: “Illusion” looked
promising, but it’s too careless. Y’ou can’t rhyme
“song” with “on.” 8.J.H.: No use... .E.F.C.:
Decidedly not... . R.Mc.: Truly and well done, but
you don’t seem to get our angle. One might have
a chance. . . .Iv.K.T.: (1) It is very close up. (2) Pay-
ment is made for ideas. There’s a constant market
here for them Sigmund: But, if it comes to
that, the Chinese arq helping. There are thousands
of them growing cabbages and doing other necessary
jobs like that in France. .. .Ewe Lamb: If you have
a story, tell it without feeble witticisms, American
catch-words and suggestions of indecency... .E.G.:
Yes, but the author will send you correct words. The
English version was mutilated. .. .D.L.8.: “Bush
Spirits” doesn’t charm us .Sara Elizabeth: The
value of your appreciation of verse is indicated by
vour own charming effort. But Quinn has done some
finer work than ever Longfellow dreamt 0f... . J.H.;
Here’s the cheerful part of it:—
Huns have the great big bill to pay
Now being piled up by Bill and Bill’s sons;
The Yanks will have one some day
A Bill passed by the Senate’s will and Wilson’s ;
Here we have an “Icy Bill” who is not slow,
And we have a Spicy Bill from Bendigo;
We have a Bill just from the war with thrilling
tales,
Our own Bill, our real Loan Bill, of New South
Wales ;
Bills are being piled up with such a will
That we’ve got to have a Referendum Bill.
. ...AAV.: Sorrowful attempt. G.P.M.: That
wouldn’t help the cause much.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.S.S.: Very wooden. More study required....
G. 8.: Suggestions perished J.D.8.: It’s going
home... .D.J.K.: No place for it G.C.: Glad
you took an old gag. Your modern drawing is as
much as we can stand at one dose... .T.R.: Why is
the shirker’s head so fat?... . J.H.D.: Won’t do; but
you will probably yet do something that will do.
“Gregor Hasmot” : Dr. Arthur reminds us
that the standard Australian family has been
judicially fixed at a man, his wife and two
children. We are degenerating. At Strahan
(Tas.) there is living at present an old dame
of 88 who is one of a family of 24, and
remembers her pa marshalling *lO daughters
into church at one time. The remembrancer
has 12 children of her own, but is well
beaten by two sisters who had respectively
15 and 18, while one of her own daughters
is now nursing her fifteenth.
Eight Maorilanders are known to have
won the V.C. to date. The first was Ser-
geant (now Captain) W. ,T. Hardham, who
earned it in S’Africa in 1901. The second
was Sergeant (now 2nd Lieut.) C. IL G.
Bassett, of Auckland, who repaired tele-
phone lines at Chunuk Bair in daylight
under heavv fire on August 8, 1915. About
the same time Captain A. ,T. Shout and Pri-
vate T. Cooke, both of Wellington, won the
medal at Gallipoli, but lost their lives in
doing it. Sergeant D. F. Brown, of Oam-
aru, gained it at the Battle of the Somme,
but he, too, was killed. Colonel (now Brig.-
Gen.) Ereyberg, of Wellington, serving with
the Imperial Forces, got the decoration in
the same mudhole at the Somme. Lieut. -
Commander Sanders, of Auckland, earned it
in the North Sea. He, too, is dead. The
last on the list is Coropral (now Sergeant)
Andrew, for daring initiative in July last
in Flanders. Between times Lance-Corporal
S Frickleton, a West Coast miner, also
bagged the V.C. in Flanders with the Maori-
landers ; but he had been only two years in
Loan Land. There are nine if you count
him in.


IP'-X
Sf
0 10
}
&
<>p
t -■
sjy?
• v V-
sb*
=M
zs
CZy
<^ZL
Y
1
0
r.'rj>. ' '.'
8
**
I
I
1
They Win Every User’s Favour
So popular have Goodyear A.W.T. Tyres
become, and so keen the demand, that many
motorists lost sight of the fact that Goodyear
make one of the best Smooth Tread Tyres on
this or any other market in the world.
The same caretully selected high-grade mate-
rials a,re used in their manufacture—the same
thoroughness and faithfulness in construction.
The same expert supervision is exercised to the
full in the making of Goodyear Smooth Tread
as in the A.W.T. type of cover.
At all seasons and in every State the Goodyear
Smooth Tread Tyre makes the ideal shoeing
for the front wheels of every car —light,
medium and heavy.
The mileage records of these tyres throughout
Australia are phenomenal, 6000 to 8000 miles
being often attained. The 10,000 mark has
on several occasions been registered on hire
cars—the most severe test of all.
While some Smooth Tread Tyres are being
increased in price, Goodyear Smooth Treads
by their greatly increased sales are now obtain-
able at a less price than formerly.
The price reduction will not be in force for an
indefinite period, but when practically every
other brand is raised in price the saving on
Goodyear Smooth Treads becomes an appre-
ciable one.
That is an additional reason for buying Good-
year Smooth Treads now.
The Goodyear Service Station Dealer in your
locality will be pleased to show you Goodyear
Tyres, Tubes and Accessories, and what is
more will help you get full mileage from your
purchase.
Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes and”Tyre Saver” Accessories are easy to get from Goodyear Service Station Dealers everywhere.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY. BRANCHES ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Thii’d-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2 , 4. 6 Spring Street.
4Sio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
RUNDABERG
* ROCK HAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) y
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Dec. 5.
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 8.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Dec. 12.
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 15.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping fot
S.A.andW.A.ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons)
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 1.
"Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputv Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; lion. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office; IJrishane.
Sydney Office: 258 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
Tiondon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St.. K.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANE
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankets to the Government of Queenslantf. under
agreement exto-'ding to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OI PICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
tli rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY', Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
Y’ARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LY r SAGHT.
Esq. ; GEOR.GE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SY'DNEY' (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Slock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Snares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2.246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
ou Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking; husinesa.
!l®L*
"
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne!
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
the largest, newest, fastest and best-equipped steamers trading between
, AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES. PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SEVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL P.E SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU 9 of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Intere'ting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NF W SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors:
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3.894,980
£10,589.960
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Macliellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Kosher), c.jVi.Ci., AKE.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St,, Bydney, London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
-T. RESELL FRENCH. General Manager. ’
Commonwealth
| HEAD OFFICE
Australia
SYDNEY. |
General Banking: Business p^nc^at
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world.
Banking and Exchangee Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1, Minimum At all Branches, and over Interest at o°/
/“ Deposit 2600 Agencies at Post Offices P er annum **/o
in Australia and Papua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
James KKLI., Dtpatr GoTcrnor. j Hvr , 19, 6 DENISON MILLER, Gor.rnor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England - The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and ,
SYDNEY AND ALL
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA, November 24.
S.fe. PARINGA, December 1.
S.S. RUPARA, December 8.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets no ,
of call with other
on all services subject to conditions
ascertained on application at the Company ‘ office
<"». S. YLTLL & CO., LTD
Vgents. 6 IUUDGIi STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Liw
'
' 000 tons, sails every four weeks fmm a..a
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia Mel '
as advertised in daily newspapers d versa ‘
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydnev and ’
Sew Zealand port, and ,icl Z.pXj* “
be obtained on application. P ulais to
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA
F r°m Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every th, w
weeks . S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne
Launceston twice weekly. uourne and
For full particulars, apply
IIUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Bydney *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—c ana d a
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:— OCE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD.. Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
1 WEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGEIi,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-ciass rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T. 5.5. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
rourists and seekers after a health trip al *d
enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel •
A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers posses
up-to date arrangements for convenience and c
t, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. *
t port of call, First and Second Saloon ticket
erchangeable with all Inter-State Companies,
:h the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji lraoe.
■ticulars on application. For dates of sailing
ilv Papers.
IRNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Acs •
SIAN, 6d. weekly—an illustrated p:‘F
mtaining mail and cable news f rol s, ‘„ e
alia and news of Australians in L
id at home. Australians are cordli “- T ,\
ted to visit the British
eading Room at the Offices. Ho rug , g
•rn. London. W.C., where they can
■me papers, meet their friends,
lephone, and obtain information w
large.


Be ready for CHristmas
get a KODAK
Make the most ot Christmas this year.
Get a Kodak and keep a permanent
record of all you see and do worth
remembering.
A Kodak is so light and compact, so
wonderfully simple to operate , that
anyone who eets a Kodak can start
right away making good pictures.
There are Autographic Kodaks for grown-ups from
30/- to £l5/2/=; and Brownies for the children from
6 = to 50/-
The 3a Folding Autographic Kodak takes excellent
postcard pictures —5J x inches. Price £5/10/=
The 2c Autographic Kodak Junior takes the popular
elongated pictures 2f x4f inches. Price 55/-
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak —the Soldier’s
Kodak —is for pictures 2\ xlf inches. Price 30 =
Ask for your copy of the new, beautifully illustrated
booklet: “All Outdoors invites your Kodak.”
Free from all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St, Sydney; “The Block” 284 Collins St, Melbourne.
250-253 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba
Theatre), Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven
St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346
Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner Lambton Quay and Willis St.,
AVellington, N.Z.; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
1
:<■ c
fife - ’
%
<5- : ”
r/
*"
r» St
S.V-S*
**:'V*V*
m
«wasg
,
s*
*•*•■
mm
af]K
3
£
SIX
A > 2.
.A/JV wj
p^4X^
iS'Tf
*<*s
-, ,*♦'l
> <-*?
'■W'v
f \VTfy***
. «
Vv«-
V
5 *jL'
' «
/CiK
-£.,,V-/
l SI j
?vr <~%.-rT<3
The Latest HUDSON SUPER-SIX is a Speedster
•M ' 4
«yThe newest Hudson Super-Six model is a four-passenger Speedster. Because
of its graceful lines, the beauty of the finish, and the wonderful speed it
possesses we think it rightly expresses “the-spirit of youth." IThe coach
is painted rich cobalt blue, and the wheels are in English vermilion. It is
mounted on the same Hudson' Super-Six Chassis that has won so many
notable records for power, speed and endurance. Go to the nearest Hudson
dealer and see tins new car.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street. Brisbane.
Hello w-FalKiner Motor Co., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address: HUD80NCAR— DETROIT.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE’B LEADING HOTEL,
Under the new management of T. M. Ahern, the
following improvements have been completed: New
Commodious Lounge, whole of Ground Floor;
New Dining-room, seat 150 persons ; New Kitchen ;
New Automatic Elevator; New Hot-water Sys-
tem throughout; New Bathrooms & Lavatories.
MINIATURE PICTURE CAMPAICN
In aid Of ST. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE.
300,000 Miniatures of Famous Pictures
for sale at 1/- each.
Mr. John Wren will Buy the Winning Miniature
for £5OOO or £lOOO. 49 Others will be Bought
for Sums ranging from £l2O to £5.
Campaign closes Nov. SO. Drawing on Dec. 8.
\pplv THE SECRETARY, ST. VINCENT’S
HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE.
LOUNGE CLUB,
PENFOLD 8 BUILDING,
183 PITT BTREET, BYDNEY.
FOR MEMBERS AND NON-MEMBERS (Ladies and
Gentlemen). A CENTRAL MEETING PLACE.
MEMBERSHIP FEES :
21- par year. 12/8 per half-year. 7/6 per quarter.
Open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
All Leading Magazines, Newspapers, etc., taken.
Lunch and Light Refreshments.
Gentlemen’s Smoking Lounge.
The Rooms may be hired for Meetings, Concerts,
Parties, etc.
NEW SEEDS. GREAT NOVELTIES.
THE DELICIOUS CASABAS.
DESEMBLE laige Rock Melons, and are very
* ' prolific. Golden Beauty, Pineapple and Golden
Hybrid, etc., 1/3 per packet each. New and large
Water Melons; Colossus, 1001 b., and Duke Jones.
Rock Melons, weight 301 b., Califprnian Giant and
Montreal. Tomatoes: Mammoth, 51b.; Logan's
Giant, 3Jlb., and White Wonder. The Garden
Huckleberry, an annual plant, for pies and pre-
serves. Climbing Rock and Water Melons, and
many new Pumpkins, Squashes and prolific Fodder
Plants, etc., at 1/- per packet each. Please write
for Catalogue to —
B. HARRISON, Burringbar P. 0., N.S.W.
C-zai
-
--B A
THIS PATENTED CIGARETTE MACHINE
makes a perfect cigarette. Instructions with each
machine. Send to H. FRICKE, Tobacconist,
Ballarat, Tic. Bd. Post Free.
Goes 6725 Miles Over Bad Roads without Costing a Penny for Repairs
“I heard a really remarkable story recently about a really remarkable per-
formance of an equally remarkable car.’’ writes an Atlanta (Georgia) newspaper
man. “Dr. J. W. Livingstone, of New York City, told me the story. I refer to
Dr. Livingstone as being from New York City, when, as a matter of fact, the
doctor simply has his headquarters in the Big Village, and trots from one corner
of these old United States to the other, and sometimes, if the notion strikes him,
he ambles up into Canada for a change.
“The last time Dr. Livingstone passed through Atlanta he purchased a brand-
new Chandler Six. Then the travelling bee got into his bonnet and he burned
the trail from here to Canada. But I am getting ahead of my story, and I’ll let
Dr. Livingstone tell it. I quote him accurately, I think, but I cannot make
it so entertaining because I cannot draw the vivid picture that he did in his
pleasantly characteristic manner. The doctor said :
‘I left Atlanta in my new Chandler, and travelled through the 1 irginia
mountains to Washington, D.C.
“‘From Washington I went to New York and up through the New England
Stated. Business called me back to New York, and I spent a day there, and left
immediately for Buffalo. From there I went to Hamilton. Ont. Thence I went
to Montreal, thence to Quebec, to the Thousand Islands. Upon my arrival there
I returned by exactly the same route to Atlanta, and when I rolled into the
Southern Saxon garage my speedometer registered 6725 miles, and I hadn't spent
a penny on the car except for gasoline and oil.
“ ‘lf that isn’t a remarkable record I never heard of one. I have owned
more costly cars than the Chandler, but I have never owned a better one. 1
wouldn’t sell my Chandler for 10.000 dollars if I thought I couldn’t buy another
one.’ ”
MARCUS CLARK (&. CO. LTD.
Sole Agents * Garage and Showrooms : 102 CastlereagH Street, Sydney. * Telephone 8862.
IN BANANA LAND
“Frilled Lizard”: A N. S. Wales exhibit
can beat the sugar-cane stalks lately on
show at Bundaberg. On Cusack’s farm at
Duroby, Tweed River, this season, I helped
to harvest 481 tons of cane off six acres. We
measured and weighed one stalk of Malabar
with the following results: Length, without
the green top, 23ft. 4in; weight, 261 b. On
weighing the stalk again six days afterwards
it was found to tip the scales at only a
fraction over 191 b., having lost almost 71b.
in as many days.
The Government has reintroduced its bill
to buy the Chillagoe railway. It proposes
to pay £475,000 in seven-year 4\ p.c. deben-
tures for the line plus £225,000 for the State-
guaranteed Etheridge section and to advance
the co. £65,000 to develop the Mulligan coal-
mines and put up coke works and £25,000
to pay its debts. For once in a way the
Opposition, being an Opposition, says that
Fat should stew in its own gravy—that the
State credit shouldn’t be used to relieve
people of a bad bargain. To the argument
that the railway depends on the mines,
which have never paid, Treasurer Theodore
replies that the district has been “scarcely
scratched”; but if the district hasn’t been,
10,000 or so people who have put money into
it have been furrowed. The line never
would have been built if most outrageous
and wicked reports hadn’t been made regard-
ing the and if the Government pays
about one-fifth of the cost it will be taking
as big a risk as the case calls for. The
Etheridge £225,000 stands on a different
basis; the State will have to take up that
swag in 1921, iD any case.
Obit, Tam Brodie, lieut., killed in action
in France, aged 24. Tam was well known
from Birdsville to the Gulf, being a son of the
late Jock Brodie, one-time manager of Cluny
station. He had been at the Front for two
years, wounded four times, once severely
with shrapnel, but returned with a light
heart to have another go. Born at Bedourie,
Georgina River, right out in the Never
Never, he was a good Australian, of splendid
physique, a rough-rider and a sport. There
are a few who will never forget the day he
took on Fighting Parson Hulton Sams for
four rounds. There wasn’t much to choose
between them. Both fine fellows have now
gone under. Damn the Kaiser!
A Bananaland publican got into holts
with the law recently for selling rum to
some navvies at a ballast pit 20 miles from
his licensed premises. When dragged into
the nearest court he argued that the case
should be heard in the court in the district
in which his license was granted. The
P.M. concurred and a fresh summons was
issued. When the case came on in No.
1 Court Bung argued that whereas that
court had granted his license the offence, if
any, was committed in another district. The
P.M. didn't agree, and after hearing evidence
passed out a £3O fine with costs. An appeal
to the District Court was, however, upheld
and the conviction quashed. Then the police
issued a new summons for No. 1 Court, and
the magistrate who presided thought the
offence worth £5O with nearly £2O costs.
Thereupon Bung appealed again for a quash-
ing order, but the joke was ended abruptly
by the Supreme Court refusing the applica-
tion.
Dr. Thos. P. Lucas, just dead in Brisbane,
was a striking ad. for the beastly Northern
climate. Born in Scotland in 1843, he had a
brilliant graduation to a string of medical
HARDLY EVER.
KIND OLD GENT: “And is your case quite hopeless? Have you ever been treated ?”
BLIND OLD BILL: “ Well, a cove shouted me a rum an ’ pep'mint larst week, but ’tain't
often, sir."
degrees. At 33, bad health decided him to
give Australia a trial, and after a short spell
in Riverina he remained in practice in Mel-
bourne for 10 years. Then he went north,
and kept going strenuously until he had
passed the 74 peg. He was a student,
specialising in entomology and geology, and
had one of the finest collection of butterflies
in the Commonwealth. The collecting habit
also included shells, seaweeds, . mosses,
stamps and traybits in the Methody Church
on Sundays. He contributed many papers
for scientific bodies, wrote hymns, and some
years ago, discovering curative properties in
the pawpaw, compounded an ointment which
has sold by the ton. The doctor was married
three times. A. H. S. Lucas, of Sydney
Grammar, is a brother.
The Lit Window.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As in a garden when the flowers are hid
(The trees themselves a piece of blacker
night)
The watcher on an unlit balcony
Sees one far window full of warmth and
light
Across the square -of blotted flower and
tree,
So does your love light all my life for me^
And when the window shuts and leaf and
bud ,
And garden wall and darkness are as one
Vast cloud that draws its shadow o’er the
sky,
Erasing even memories of sun,
Alone with muffled flower and banished tree
How dark becomes that unlit balcony!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 17 ; 1917.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The chief rally of our aristocracy this week
was at the opening of the Grange Hill Con-
valescent Home for Soldiers. This is the
residence of Alexander Raff, lent to the Red
Cross Society for 12 months and another year
and a half if necessary. The house has 18
rooms and several wide balconies, and is
surrounded by lawns and gardens. The Red
Cross is building a cottage in the grounds
for the staff, and also a workroom, where
the patients may learn trades. The object
is to provide for Billjims who have been dis-
charged from hospital, but are still unable
to get along without further care and atten-
tion.
Miss Massey Jackson and Mrs. E. Barry
gave a successful entertainment in the Cen-
tennial Hall on Friday night. The takings
will help to furnish the C. of E. hut for
soldiers at Tweed Heads.
Yesterday afternoon the Public Service
patriotic committee held a Birthday Fay re in
the Uni. Grounds to raise money for Heroes’
Day. Mr. J. M. Hunter, in opening the
frivolity, broke the glad news that the com-
mittee had already raised over £7OOO.
A new diphtheria ward will be opened at
the Children’s Hospital nest week. The
original one was built in 1910, since when
1944 patients have been treated, and 1867
of them saved. The original ward was fitted
for 18 patients, which was considered ample
accommodation. The new one has 50 or 60
beds. Our splendid sanitary system seems to
be improving!
The Queensland Sock Fund, which has
supplied over 70,000 pairs since war started,
is up against financial trouble. Wool soars
in price, and cash does not come in well.
There are plenty of willing knitters, but
they can’t be kept going for lack of material.
It’s a case of “dip into your own pocket,”
and the dipping never seems to stop
even it we go bare-legged Billji m shall b 4
Home Sec. Iluxham made himself
popular man of the week when he i n ? St
duced a scheme to Parliament to take
the tramways and -regulate” the fares V*
uncompromising champions of the' sarS
rights of propputy have long felt the?
trams should be State-owned, so ,?*
guess how much the short sections established
by Pirate Enterprise have been enjoyed
Extract from the Toowoomba Gr amma ,
School magazine : mdr
One of them has by conspicuous eallantrv ,
won the M.C., but also become engaged to an Engfi
I nearly forgot to mention that our Fv pa
returned from their mild southern junketing
this week. ss
Died recently at Innisfail the widow of the
late Captain A. Henry, pioneer of the \nrth
Born on the Namoi (N.S.W.), she w‘as the
youngest child of Captain Bell reached
Queensland while yet in her teens and
married at Springsure 47 years ago. Comim,
of a pioneer family, she traversed Outback
from the border to the Gulf, is credited with
being the first woman across the Flinders
and knew Cloncurry and Thursday Island
before the Gulf waters were disturbed bv
steamers. Keepit, Tambo. Hughenden Mt
Oxide and many other places were taken un
and named by the Bell-Henry pioneers. One
of the deceased lady’s sons, Capt. Arthur
Henry, is on service in Africa: another
Major J. D. Henry, in France. She was a
proud mother. And they are proud sons.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Larrikin’’ recalls old times in the West:
Life was rough and tough out there in the
’seventies. Going out to take up country we had to
cart our rations 600 miles up the Paroo and out by
Thargomindah. Our waggon was the first four-
wheeled vehicle to cross the Lower Barcoo. We had
no harness-cask, so when we killed a beast we put
four pegs in the ground, fastened on side-pieces,
placed the hide over all and so made a trough. Salt-
horse! Why we didn’t snuff out from scurvy the
Lord only knows; but we used to pump sarsaparilla
into ourselves, and eat calabras (yams) and “fat
hen” galore. A pound was the price of everything
almost—a bottle of brandy, a pound of tobacco, a
pair of moleskins, a pair of elastic-side boots (ten
shillings for a Crimean shirt), and a quid for any old
sort of a Yankee hat, and glad to pay it! Lots of
the bushmen plaited hats of blue-grass, with half-
hitches of thread. They sewed the plait into the
shape of a hat, and finished the headgear with a
plaited strip of green-hide with Turks’ heads on it,
and a chin-strap. How those old grass hats lasted!
“The Sydney flash” was a great Riverina take-on
in those days for stockmen and shearers. It con-
sisted of white moleskins, Wellington boots, spurs
hanging at a very drooping angle, Yankee hat with
a band of black velvet, and a scarlet sash with
fringed ends. Did they fancy themselves? My
oath!


Model
84 B
Motor Car
£5OO £s2s
The Knight Type Engine
Improves With Use,
Immediate Delivery.
Front the nature of their construc-
tion, all ordinary types of motor car
engines will deteriorate with use.
But the Knight type sleeve-valve
engine actually improves with 4use*
It is the only engine that makes
beneficial use of carbon.
Ever since the petrol engine came
into general use, carbon has been con-
sidered an unavoidable evil that gradu-
ally undermined engine efficiency.
, It caused loss of power, made engines
noisy, made valve grinding and cylin-
der cleaning a necessity that period-
ically put one’s car into the repair shop.
But instead of unseating the valves,
carbon seals the fit of the sliding sleeves
of the Willys-Knight engine.
So instead of a loss there is a gain
in power, smoothness, quietness and
flexibility.
Let us tell you more about the ex-
clusive advantages of the Willys-Knight
engine. Let us show you why this car,
with all its luxury, completeness and
riding comfort is priced far lower than
any other Knight “motored” car.
Call on us today .
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
KELLOW f-ALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
HEATHORN & CO., Hobart & Launceston
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide .
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willy s-Overland Company.. Toledo, Ohio, XJ. S. A.
Manufacturers of Willys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
and Light Lorries


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous Hair.
It is easy to remove superfluous hair tem-
porarily, but to remove it permanently is
quite another matter. Not many women
know that for this purpose such a simple
substance as powdered pheminol may be
used, applied directly to the ltair. The recom-
mended treatment is designed not merely to
instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Almost any
chemist could supply an ounce of pheminol,
which quantity should be sufficient.
Renewing Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless to potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things in an effort to get
rid of the trouble. Unless you have some
ability as an artist, you will mar your ap-
pearance still more. The new and rational
way is to take off the complexion itself, with
all its offensive marks. Just get some pure
mercolized wax at the chemist’s and use at
night the same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of cold water. The mercolized wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky
particles, so gradually that no one guesses
you are treating your face—unless it" be by
the result, which is truly wonderful. There
is nothing like it for bestowing a natural,
healthy and beautiful complexion.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which will
then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with the stymol-charged water and then dried
with a towel. The offending blackheads, of
their own accord, come right off on the
towel, the large oily pores immediately con-
tract and efface themselves naturally. There
is no squeezing, foiling, or any drastic
action. The skin is left uninjured, smooth,
soft and cool. A few such treatments should
be taken at intervals of three or four days
thereafter in order to insure the permanence
of the pleasing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often down-right injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You have only to get two ounces of
tammalite concentrate from your chemist and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum to prove
this. Apply this simple and harmless lotion
for a few* nights to the hair with a small
sponge, and the greyness will gradually dis-
appear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in pos-
session of the formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent London beauty
specialist: “The slimy egg cannot dissolve
the scalp impurities, but only adds to the
trouble by completely choking the pores with
animal matter.” The substance sticks, de-
composes. thereby causing the hair to assume
a dead, “dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap
too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair,
will clear and prevent dandruff, and leave
that fine fluffy effect so much sought after.
It also removes excess oil or greasiness. [1
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently od
liver and bowels ; this
oid, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young
Purely
Vegetable.
Carters
SPITTLE
■ IVEI
Pi
Bmall Pill— SmaH Dost — Sm ill Prios.
GENUINE must bear signature
&he “DAISY”
Combination Acetylen» Table & Bracket L&chp.
As per illustra-
tion. Complete
with globe and
bracket.
Height Overall,
15 inches.
Breadth of Base,
5 inches.
Freight Paid,
17 6
;
Solid Brass.
75 Candle Power.
Burns 6 Hours
at one filling.
LUX LIGHT CO.
OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a tew drops of
Dhosfo
I THE ROYAL 1
rino
ROYAL TONIC
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
■ •••■• V •■■■■ ■■
"(Tie {
With.
"V
PRICES
<3
Q
Vou secure Lather
* / rhals fragrant" —.
Lather that lasts.
Kavino:
irick^w
* Price’sj
PRICE'S. London.. Liverpool,Manchesrer.Glasgow
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
comes into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
evidence. So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new Bostock styles
for the season, since these are more captivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent leather, made in
that new, short-fronted French shape which
makes every foot look so arched and delightful
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling finish
to one s new walking suit or gown. And it is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable
Bostock styles now on view at the leading stores
Bostock No.
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bo stock."
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the name “Bostock" on the soles.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. -4 re
let the Ravisher of Belgium tc* n
lifting a handt
Lieut. -Col. Maygar is the third V.C. from
up-north in Victoria to be killed in this
war. The others were Lance-Corporal
Burton (Euroa) and Major Tubb (Long-
wood ).
“T.L.W.”: Talking of Anzacs. One very
seldom hears the word over here in Europe.
“Aussie” is the universal term, amongst the
Australians, at all events, and I think among
the girls, too. Not that I would disdain to
include myself with the noble baud of Gal-
lipoli ; but “Anzac” is too exclusive a term
to use of an army that has done more and
suffered more in France —an army composed
for the most part of men who did not see
Gallipoli, but have faced far stiffer stuff
elsewhere.
“Mujik”: I have been thinking what a
queer coincidence it is that a magazine which
arrived in Australia a week or two before
Hughes produced his windy scheme for
“reorganisation of industry” contained an
article of which his Sydney oration in its
broad outlines might have been a paraphrase.
The Round Table, published in London in
September, is the magazine, and in it some
writer or other, discussing “Problems of
Democracy and Reconstruction,” presents a
groundwork on which Hughes might con-
veniently have built his project if he had
not, of course, thought it all out long ago.
Born 23 years ago, on the West Coast of
Tas., C. T. Mummery was on the office staff
of Vic. State coal-mine at Wonthaggi when
he enlisted as private. After service at
Ismailia he got his first wound at Lone Pine.
Securing his star, he won the M.C. at
Pozieres for helping another officer to bring
in wounded under heavy fire, and a bar was
afterwards added. An athlete, 6ft. 4in. long
and 15st. on the scales, Mummery made light
of jobs that would have stuck up most men,
and he escaped risk after risk until the end
Of October, when he fell after three years
and two months’ service.
Thomas Quinlan, the Royal Hotel lift-boy
who was sentenced to death in Sydney a
dozen years ago for the murder of a lady
staying at the ancient pub, has been killed in
France. Released less than two years ago
he enlisted shortly afterwards. In the
earlier years of his confinement he was one
of the most troublesome “patients” that the
Prison people had to deal with : so far from
regarding himself as any sort of bad lot, he
was full of conceit and demanded concessions
and privileges because he had achieved a
“lifer.” Later on he became more nearly
normal; and the doors were opened to aim
after 10 years.
From Will Lawson:—
The spirit is moving sundry of the islanders to
have the name of their abode changed to “Maori-
land.” When Abel Tasman sighted “the long white
cloud” he opined that it was part of a polar
continent which Schouten and Le Maire had previ-
ously named Staaten Land. Upon that error being
corrected the islands were named New Zealand by
the Dutch, after one of the islands in the Baltic, the
prefix “New” being used after fashion of the
time. Many years ago The Bulletin took the
matter out of the hands of the Hollanders, and, at
the font of general desire, rechristened the place
Maoriland. Some of the optimists expect official
recognition before the war ends.
After a long fight with the trouble caused
by a wound received in the Boer War, Capt.
Richard Essington Zouch recently died at
Brunswick Heads (N.S.W.). He was one
of the heroes of Modder River; for days he
and his men held brother Jan in check till
they were relieved by Kitchener’s army. For
his gallantry he received the congratulations
of the Field-Marshal. A son, Lieut. Zouch.
is in Palestine. Capt. Zouch’s father —a
captain too —came to Australia with the
4th King's Own in 1526. In 1834 he was
appointed to the Mounted Police division at
Bathurst, and subsequently to the post of
Gold Commissioner on the Turon. Later,
he was superintendent of the mounted patrol
of main roads.
Opponents of Conscription on the ground
that Australia doesn’t need Conscription to
save its skin, should be forced to read what
W inston Churchill said eight years ago about
the warnings of Lord Roberts:—
We live in a period of superficial alarms, when it
is thought patriotic and statesmanlike, far-seeing,
clever and Bismarekian to predict hideous and
dreadful wars as imminent. I don’t believe all this
nightmare nonsense at all. There is no real antago-
nism of interests between Great Britain and Germany.
Churchill is at least as brainy a partisan as
Archbishop Mannix. and the people who en-
joyed his cheap satire were not more short-
sighted than the little crowds that Mannix
appeals to, or that Tudor tickles with false
doctrine.
“Hamer”: The mere fact that Mayfair
has sent its husband and brothers to the
firing-line does not prevent it from carrying
on its old follies; in fact, smart Mrs. May-
fair has now more money than ever for dress
and bridge. She and the new Sassiety
dames and damsels who represent the war
profiteers battle over the card tables for
high stakes, and the Insolvency Court takes
the hindmost. There are rumblings of
social scandals around these fluffy gambling
houses. Officers have come back, wounded,
from h ranee to find not only their house-
holds in a state of bankruptcy, but their
honor pawned to its last shirt 'button ; and
there have been some social smashes
that would have been earthquakes in
the old days. In some cases the women
have come to London to be near to sources
of Information about their husbands, and
as a result of a few introductions have
drifted into gambling circles which were
above their financial limit. As a lot of the
gambling occurs in private houses where the
“guests” are only admitted on invitation,
the police are powerless. But the scandal
is worrying the military chiefs. It has sent
at least one officer —whose case was recently
considered—back to the Front with aii
uigent desire to find a German bullet that
will end the tangle; and leaders in that
mood are not particularly careful about the
effect of their actions on their men and the
line generally.


safeguard your health
prJ.Collis Brownes
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordeim,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
OUR NEW
CATALOGUE
is an excellent Guide for
Country Residents who desire
to avail themselves of our
splendid values in Gifts. We
send it Post Free.
Wristlet Watches
AND GIFTS FOR MEN.
THE “ELGIN” LEVER is a Reliable Timekeeper. It
has a Seven-Jewel Compensation Balance, Highly-Gilt Three-
quarter Plate Movement, Radium Hands and Figures, in Strong,
Sterling Silver Case.
Price, £3/10/-
Covered Strap Supplied if required.
C7l97.—Finest
Translucent Enamel
and Sterling Silver
Links, 6/6 pair.
MILITARY
HAIR
BRUSHES.
Pair Silver-
Mounted Real
Ebony Military
Hair Brushes,
in Leather
Case.
Prices, 14/6,
16/6, 18/6,
21/-, 30/-,
40/-, 42/-
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street, Sydney.
k. ** <0 TJT a VUVJf A *»
r »»< (///
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
NELSON U ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
“A breath of Blighty”
<s?^"
\
M
k-
/4»^
6r
tT,
DRIVER : “ ’Ere, you blighter, you’re lettin’ my tyre down ! "
THE RECUMBENT ONE: “Doctor’s orders, matey! The M.O. said T was pinin’ for me native
air, an’ w’en I spotted these ’ere Avons I reckoned they prob’ly ’adn’t bin pumped up since they
left ’ome —So ' ’ere goes for a breath of Blighty, Alf,’ I sez ! ”
AN A.S.C. driver, campaigning in Egypt (driving the G.O.C. the
—th Division), writes to Mr. H. E. Clark, of Highgate, as
follows You will be interested to know that I am running Avon
Tyres all round on my big ‘ Vauxhall.’ I have got the same Avons
on as I had when the car was at Ferant Camp, Salisbury. I have
never had a puncture, or even had to pump up one of the covers
since I took the car over last October.”
N.S.W. Agents! Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victorian Agents ; H. C. Pannifex, 26 IVLarket Street, IVlelbourne.
Queensland Agents ! The Queensland riotor Agency, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Petrol
costs too much. Economise by usin';- “GASO-
IjETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne .
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
either makes or mars your appear-
ance, therefore you should exercise
the utmost care in its selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in style, perfect
in fit, and give the utmost in long-
service.
They are made in half- and full-
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide
We illustrate a special Patent
Derby Shoe, in a very smart, made-
to-order style.
Price - 40
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A B BE Y,
313 George Street,
Retween G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.


Music re-created
through a diamond.
The wonderful Diamond Stylus Reproducer
is Mr. Edison’s secret and is part of the
equipment that has enabled him to give to
the world actual Re-created music by means
The NEW EDISON.
Cultured music-lovers express the greatest
admiration at the pure, unaltered natural
tone of it.
Learn all about it. Write to-day for
descriptive printed matter, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
ft
30
£
£
<
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Llttte Collins St., Melbourne.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CEAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. EUab. 1891.
2
EACH
ONE OF
YOUR
32 TEETH
is shielding in some
crevice germs anrl
bacteria, which in time will eat
the hard enamel and attack the
vital tooth structure. Ordinary
brushing and an ordinary tooth-
cleanser are not effective.
IN
f>
McK
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
oxygen is liberated when Calox is moistened.
This active powerful ingredient in Calox
neutralises the acid secretions; it penetrates
to ail parts, killing dangerous germs and
removing the primary cause of decay.
Calox whitens the discolored teeth, and is
a dainty, refreshing dentifrice.
Sold in attractive, non-wasting containers. /
Test Calox Free. J
A fine big sample tin will
be sent by return mail to all
who forward this ad. with
name and address and two
penny stamps enclosed to
cover postage. Address Calox
Department, Geo. Wills and
Co., 480 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
Calox is procurable from
ALL CHEMISTS AND
k LEADING STORES,
x. F.22/11/’l7.
<mm
THE
OXYGE
TOOTH POWDER
Instead of Metal-Polish
Bon Ami is a unique soap made
with a soft, crumbly white min-
eral of high polishing-power. It
is better than a metal-polish be-
cause it will dig the dirt out of
all the little corners and rub
away the tarnish.
The Bon Ami way is the bet-
ter way —it does not eat or
corrode the metal. Bon Ami
contains no acid.
Bon Ami also cleans windows,
mirrors, kitchenware, aluminum,
nickel, white paint.
Metal-polish cleans
by dissolving the
tarnish with acid.
Bon Ami cleans by
softly grinding off
the tarnish and pol-
ishing the metal
without scratching.
fjf aH tlte
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning
At your Grocer’s.
ORLICKS
MALTED
-M
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,'
and Malt). Keeps ’
for years and never
becomes stale or loses]
any of its admirable |
qualities. It is made]
in a moment, any-J
where. Only water/
is needed. In hot climates it isj
invaluable.
i kvw.' 05 :
s«to
ahd]ra
c '**s<c
-V
CAPILLARINE
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, BYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
1
w,
4# 4J
P
m
11 m m ¥i m i
fiAfiiw OiiCK
Keep the
home fires
burnina.^
Gives a lasting
lather and a
smooth shave
hA*J£ M
' tX-MMcfrA
V':
w
Guaranteed
not to dry
on the face
From all Chemists & Stores.
Agents:
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
Fighting for Happiness.
When you get into a frame of
one tiresome"duty d
pleasure in it- J af
makes life seem
another, with no
S'™.**.™.!? “ c . out „ f ffi,
when in.
and you worry over things that are „
not worth worrying about, then your « Pl ea,y
system is becoming exhausted and vnT° US
approaching neurasthenia. i m are
Your happiness is worth fightinv fm. J
red blood is your best ally. It is f i ' , an<l
task to try to restore your health ft 8
,om- tj blood .8 deficient in gnMll *“fc
For building up the blood these i s
remedy that has been a household word fT? 6
generation—Dr. Williams’ Pink Piik f a
Pale People. They tone up the entire
tern, help make the blood rich and 7a‘
strengthen the nerves increase the apwS
put color in the cheeks and lips, and
away that unnatural feeling. 6
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Box au
G.P.0., Sydney, has published a free wJ
on nervous disorders that contains a chanter
on neurasthenia, in which the symptoms a
fully described ■ and the correct treatment
given.— Advt. l
IT’S GREAT
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth,
AV.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty.’
Elizabeth St., Melbourne; R. R. Ru S !
sack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Sydney;
Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Ltd., Pirie
St., Adelaide.
qUEENSLa
romi
nit
rrfr:
#ll
# = I
= = ■=
= =
S 3.
/vame.
/Ic/cfress,
aCJEZrvSLAHD frvr£LLfG£HC£
A. TOUfZfST QUGGAtr QR/SBAfiE
A Book of
192 Pages
G i—l_ c: D
POCKET
QUEEMSLAND"
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all abouf tf*
Millioni of Acres
of ferMe land for
intending aelMens
will besen! you
by filling m Ihe
Coupon below.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’* Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Hose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
Rare you ft
OPTU RED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do .'<?
want to obtain an Appliance that is
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAI
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and
will send you particulars and testimonia
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything e s .
This is something ENTIRELY NF.M : 't
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIAWUJ
YET INVENTED. It does away attogw®;'
with galling steel springs and chafing l ea
understraps. The pad is made of soft ’
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To sno
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is WJthin
reach of all. Can you ask for m '
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECUKh .
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE. ,
It is suitable for men, women and cn
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED I* 6 '
THE WIN SLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne. »u.


Terrible State
ForTwoMonths
Pimples All Over Face and Head*
One Tin Cuticura Ointment
and One Cake Soap Healed.
“When my little boy was three years
old small festered pimples came out all
over his face and head
and he was in a terrible
state for two months.
The pimples were itchy
and sore.
“I saw the advertise-
ment about Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and
sent for some. One tin
of Cuticura Ointment
and one Cake of Cuticura Soap healed
him.” (Signed) Mrs. G. Tobin, Sofala,
N. S. W., July 13, 1916.
Cuticura Soap to cleanse and purify,
and Ointment to soothe and heal.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
**A fgjp
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
' Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 22U Strand. London.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
1 We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, \V.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S/VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL’
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ij oz. of shot.
•380
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY -38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS.
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tne
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
'Worn spo-ts
c'a n easily
be repaired
wilh JOHNSON’S
PREPARED WAX
it.
-aC
hdEi
s***%
Door- Ways Are The Bug-Bear
of finished floors. They receive the hardest
wear, and naturally need most attention.
Busy housekeepers and careless maids allow
the finish to wear entirely off, and soon the
wood gets rough and splintery. It’s a. very simple
matter to have beautiful floors if the doorways are
kept well-polished with
i
i
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
It is splendid for linoleums, too—for it brings out
the pattern and preserves it. Johnson’s Prepared
Wax imparts a beautiful, durable polish—easy to
keep clean. Less than an hour is required for pol-
ishing an ordinary-sized floor, and it may be walked
upon immediately.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempt-
ing. Hot dishes have no effect whatever upon it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently re-
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust-'
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman F umiture also.
jOHNSOrt,
»>o« »•*"*
Cowntrt i O'***!
Every family has dozens ol uses
for Johnson's Prepared Wax,
Keep a tin always on hand for
polishing your
Linos. Piari6
Floors Furniture
Woodwork Motor Car
Johnson’s Prepared Wax comes
in the household and larger sizes.
It may be obtained from all
good dealers, or from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St., Sydney, N. S. W,
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
1/6 ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO , 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
P
V/i
ft
[3
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
* * * *
“ Jacko”: The 10 country dailies in N. S.
Wales and the A.J.A. have effected a com-
promise. The agreement is practically a
renewal of that of a couple of years ago,
with slightly better pay, the claims having
been modified in view of the revelation that
few of the sheets are paying and that sev-
eral are limping along on overdrafts. Lis-
more, Grafton, Wagga. Maitland _and Tam-
worth are in the “A” grade —£5 10s. for
seniors, £4 10s, for generals, and £4 for
juniors. “B” grade (Bathurst, Albury and
Murwillumbah) pay £5, £4 ss. and £3 15s.
respectively. The proportion clause allows
two-fifths seniors and two-fifths generals, and
the hours are cut down to 46 weekly.
Broken Hill and Newcastle are outside this
classification.
* * * *
A Wooden Cross for 11. S. Ilenstridge,
killed in France at 30. An Adelaide boy, for
several years he was advertising manager of
the locai Mail, and when lie enlisted in 1915
was making an excellent fist of the Stanley
(S.A.) Herald.
* * * *
Back in Australia, Sgt. G. W. Brownhill,
proprietor of Forbes (N.S.W.) Advocate.
Eighteen months ago lie exchanged pen for
rifle and used it in France; but an injured
knee lias sent him home. Another Western
pressman, .T. N. Crowley, who owns the
Wyalong (N.S.W.) paper, was lately re-
ported missing.
* * * *
“M.D.”: Killed in France on October 4,
Corporal Geo. A. Armstrong, late on the
literary side of the West Australian—
good pressman, good sport and good
fellow. He was given several setbacks
before he could pass the doctor, but
he won through in January, 1916.
With the rank of sergeant lie was
selected among a group of Westralians to
try for a commission at Duntroon in October
of last year, but owing to his old enemy
asthma coming against him he had to leave
a couple of weeks before the final exams.
However, this didn’t deter him from linking
up with his battalion, and, although far from
well, he sailed for Flanders last January.
Armstrong, who was only 33 when he went
west, had written some bright stuff for The
Bulletin.
* * * *
Louis Esson, unless a submarine has been
offensive, is in England by this time. He
frankly didn’t like N’York ; and, apparently,
N’York didn’t care much for the literary
work that he took w’ith him. ‘Excellent, of
its sort, but not our sort,” was the verdict.
So, after a while, he moved on to the Con-
sulate to arrange for a passage across the
Atlantic. “Quite useless to think of it
said the Briton. “Oh, we’ll take the risks,
said Esson. “That’s not the point. Ihe
question is: ‘What useful war work. could you
do and would you undertake to do if you got
there?’ ” Louis thought of lisping that he
had written some positively deadly verse at
times. Then he remembered that he had a
wife and that she used to be Dr. Hilda Bull.
He mentioned her and her consuming anxiety
to do a bit at her profession. “Ah, that
makes everything quite different,” said the
British Consulate; and the office couldn t
get them across quickly enough.
* * *
“T. 0.1.” • John Bryan Pybus, aged 64,
proprietor of the Advocate, published at
Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.), is dead. He was
cousin of former G.-G. Northcote; his
wife was a daughter of the late Osmond
Horn Gilles, and thus belongs to a historic
S. Australian family. Their only son was
killed at Fromelles. “Korff’s” Harbor, by
the way, is the proper name. The first
settler was old Fred Korff, well known in
nautical circles and at Glebe Point, Sydney,
50 years ago.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Archie Collier, reported missing,
probably killed, was not only a good fellow,
but had the makings of a fine pressman in
him. After a short spell in a bank he
earned a crust on the Hobart Mercury and
took to the job kindly. Weak eyes were
against him when he wanted to enlist, but
after several shots he battled through. He
left Australia as a sergeant and worked up
to a commission.
* * * *
“Cherokee”; When I was a boy, which
was before the seventh son of. the Kaiser
was born (this seems a mad kind of chro-
nology, but you’ll see its method presently).
The Bulletin printed a par recounting an
old German prophecy to the effect that the
first Hohenzollern to have seven sons would
wreck himself and his empire. There were
other details, more closely identifying Wil-
helm as the empire-wrecker, which I cannot
now recall. But the parallels were remark-
able. The Bulletin’s comment was that
the kaiser had already six sons, would quite
probably have a seventh, and seemed capa-
ble of anything. Any old Bulletin reader
state the date, approximately?
THE RHYME BUILDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some poets in these latter days
To catch the crowd’s attention strive
Their verse to build in novel ways,
And in this fashion will contrive
To write you verse in solid blocks that gives the good
conventions shocks, and fills you with an aching
doubt the while you dig the rhythm out.
Another who has nought to say
That’s worth the while it takes to breed,
With even more fantastic play
Beguiles the foolish ones to read.
He talks the platitudes of loves,
And lips, and curls, and ladies’ gloves,
And makes it right, when you should hiss,
By stringing out
his end
like this.
I’ve written rhyme of every sort
With care for every decent rule,
And still of fame have fallen short,
So I intend to found a school.
•peaq s}i uodn puejs psmu cqno aqx
aiuosur.w aqp o; ipsqp o<g
‘saunfq.i snifi An apd n<l qi-iojaauan
so tup apseuuiXS ‘puißnb aqp oseapl ox
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


The Joy of
Speed
•v
>
ou travel bad roads with
the least possible shock.
You maintain speed with
the least exertion. You ride
on Moseley Cycle "Tyres.
The Moseley Tyre draws its character
from two sources. The one is the
Moseley Rubber. The other is the
Flexifort Fabric in the foundation.
It is the Moseley
rubber which gives
strength, it is the
Flexifort Fabric
which adds “life.”
These two qualities
form the character of
Moseley Cycle Tyres.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer
If you find any difficulty in obtaining
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
28 7 -28 9, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “ Grear,” Sydney
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
C.W. H.
C. 2.
"MILLER”
LIGHTING FIXTURES AND LAMPS
Electric — Gas—Oil
When you ask for a "Miller”
Lamp no matter whether of
the Electric, Gas or Oil variety,
you are exercising good taste and
judgment and are assured of the
very best obtainable.
Styles for all requirements
Look oyer the "Miller” line NOW.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
No. L 2318
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you
let the Ravisher of Belgium win
lifting a handf
going to
without
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Bavings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 0
6 will purchase a Certificate for
6 »» ii
0 »» n
0 »» ii
° » n
® »» n
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax'
6- War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17 6
they can be exchanged for £| certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. October ]9r
SV
*-■
K-
Sporting'
R-ifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
a-
“A marvel at the price.'''
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
14/6
aMJIE'JiiUi,
BjjMMiiT "jfi’ir*-^
takes 25
receivers,
take-dow
Splendid for all small game:’
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle. 18Q7 ,
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire 3 del ’
s £? rt ’ 20 long - 01 18 long rifle cartridges case
fitted with sliding rear sights; weight 54ib L^, d i/ ed
11 ' Freight paid,’ 95/“
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
mi
l
' -v
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/2/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/5/-
With J-Octagon Barrel, 32-eal. only Freight paid, £5/5/.
Bid. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model, ’
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central- fire, full or half magazines, _
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight paid,l7 0
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4flb.;
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
40/-
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sJlb. .. ycy!/\
Freight paid. « >3
‘Simple and extra strong in construction.'
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavv round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b r* o ir-
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.) OO O
IW*SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
“A suitable tceapon for the boy."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
22/6
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted only hold
for two weeks from date.
good
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
Ar Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16, « calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sjlb.
t, . . . . „ 4 . Freight paid, £>O f l 5l m
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 39/3 1000; 4/- 100
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post. ~
A perfect rabbiter's rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip. 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short. 12 long or
n long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open __ .
front sights; weight. 4*lb. Freight paid, 75/*
SUNOLTOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
11d. post free.
87. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22 calibre,
barrel case-hardened frame, solid breech
action; weight, about 4Rb.
RF. round 24in.
block under lever
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F. 25 or 32 calibre's!‘»/««£.*
42/6
■ A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2}lb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also “Sure Catch ” Anglers'
Liui e (Ldialogue B ~), Post Free to any address . Write for one or both lists . They
are money savers.
28 6
LfC
•J
TWSTRmJriS GREATEST ,
SPORTS OUTFITTERS' 1
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
IIS) Kind St also at
Tiencastle <! Brisbane


Make Peace with
Your Stomach.
Take ome
twenty minutes
BEFORE,
AND
ONE
V AFTER
YOU CANNOT FORCE your stomach to do
work that it is unable to do. It has been tried
time and again, with always the same result.
The stomach is a good and faithful servant,
but when pushed beyond the limit it rebels.
Some stomachs will stand much more abuse
than others, but every stomach has its limit,
and when that limit is reached it is a very
dangerous and unwise proceeding to attempt to
force it into doing further work.
THE REASONABLE COLtRSE and the most
sensible is to procure a substitute to carry on
the work of digestion and give the stomach an
opportunity to recuperate and regain its lost
strength. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are
the only perfect substitute to take up and
carry on the work of tired, worn-out stomachs.
They are natural and easy in their work, and
cause no disturbance in the digestive organs.
They contain all of the essential elements that
make up the gastric juice and other digestive
fluids, and will digest any food that a strong,
healthy stomach will, and do it in the same
time and in the same way.
THEY WORK INDEPENDENTLY of sur-
rounding conditions, and the fact that a stomach
is weak or diseased does not influence them at
all in their useful and effective work. They will
digest food just as well in a glass jar or bottle
as they will in a stomach. You can see that
for yourself by putting one of them into a jar
with a square meal and some warm water to
enable them to work.
THEY ACTUALLY DIGEST the food, and do it completely, thoroughly and
independently, thus giving the weak and weary stomach an opportunity to renew
and regain its wasted strength. You will forget that you have a stomach, just
as you did when you were a healthy boy or girl, and that organ, being relieved of
its work, will be enabled to rest and recuperate and regain its health and strength.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES are sold everywhere at 2/6 for a
tin containing 80 Tabules. Buy a tin, eat a good square meal, and then take a
Tabule and note the result. You will forget all about it if you are not careful,
for there will be NO PAIN, nor disturbance, and the food will be DIGESTED
just as it used to be when your STOMACH was WELL and STRONG.
Furthermore, your stomach will soon be restored again if you keep on taking
them, just as thousands of other stomachs have been from the sole and exclusive use of
<D»Sheu>ons
Price 2/6
1
“Oh, but Boating Does
Make One Hungry ! ”
When you pack the basket for
the week-end or the Saturday
afternoon Boating expedition in-
clude a tin or two of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
then be sure the “ Big hunger of
the open air ’ ’ will find you pre-
pared. “REX '' CAMP PIE is
tastefully compounded by the
peerless “Rex'’ Chefs from spec-
ially selected meats, well cooked,
minced fine ; seasoned, and sur-
rounded by a firm jelly.
It can be eaten as it comes from
the tin, but the addition af a Let-
tuce or Beetroot Salad will help
you to do it justice.
Ask your Grocer for a Tin.
For all occasions when Sand-
wiches are needed call to your
aid the Twin Sandwich Treats
“Rex Ham Pate
and
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate ,
Thel) are not a scrap like ordin-
ary meat pastes, but have a taste
all their own. Dozens of new
Sandwich treats will present
themselves when you know
them. Sold by all Grocers in
perfect tins, sealed without
soldef.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products
f'nrers of "Rex ” Hams and Bacon
JZ9
Ireland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A GREEN and purple island of the sea,
A red and very bitter story told,
hlecked with the jewel-tales set deep
in gold,
And aching with the pride of memory
A stalwart people straining to be free •
Yet in their bondage rich to have and’hold
More than broad freedom’s ample robes mav
fold
Of all that fills the soul’s fine treasurv.
Be still, my dream, my purpose and my love,
0 island of white saints and happv things
Set to a mournful cadence in the west
Green graves below, a sorrowing mist above
Yet with a voice that dow'n the ages sings
Till men who never knew thee hold thee best!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Business Principles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Jordan was arrested for steal-
ing a grey horse from Alma
Downs and selling it to a bound-
ary-rider on another run no one felt much
suipiise. Jordan was incapable of keeping
himself out of trouble for more than two
years at a time, and trouble was overdue.
A narrow-chested little man with a low fore-
head, black, lively eyes, and legs that seemed
specially designed for the saddle, he was
less a victim of evil than of his own ingenu-
ity. He could fake a brand so cleverly that
the art had obtained a morbid hold over his
mind, and he could not look at the letters on
a patent-medicine advertisement without let-
ting his imagination work on the changes
that could he wrought by a few neat altera-
tions.
Bail was fixed in two sureties of £lOO
each, and the station-owner for whom he
had recently been breaking horses was a
prompt guarantor. Macquarie, the store-
keeper, made himself liable for the rest.
Steve’s not a bad sort,” he said chari-
tably. “He’s got his little kink, of course,
but so has everyone else. His main trouble
is that he’s got more heart than brains. And
the hundred quid’s safe enough, anyway.”
Macquarie did business chiefly with the
teamsters, skin-hunters and drovers with
whom Jordan was popular, and his motives
in going bail for the horse-thief were probably
mixed. He was a big, happy-go-lucky man
with twinkling eyes and a red face that was
very much obscured by a fluffy growth of
white whiskers. There was an atmosphere
of benevolence and liberality about him even
when he was measuring out a pound of
sugar.
His rival, Bryce, was different. Twenty
years of competition in the little township
with its hot main street and drooping pep-
perinas had thinned Bryce and rendered him
dry and acidulous. He had been established
two years before Macquarie, and regarded
the latter as a newcomer who had cut him
out of his business by underhand means.
There was hardly enough trade for the two
of them, for the big stations got most of their
stores from town, and Bryce had to stock
cheap and unpayable lines to keep pace with
Macquarie’s undoubted popularity. He
looked upon the bailing-out of Jordan as the
me ( 3 nes t blow Macquarie had ever dealt him.
“Mac s a white man,” he heard the drovers
say at the pub. “The hat never went round
yet but what he dropped something shiny
into it. And h<?’s always ready to help a
bloke that’s down.”
The praise of his rival made Bryce
acutely miserable. It hurt him not only in
the pride but in the pocket, for it was obvious
that Macquarie’s reputation had gone up in
the township aisd that he was doing in-
creased business. Sometimes in the after-
noons, when time hung heavy on his hands,
Bryce would wander out to the verandah
and look up the long, red street to see five
or six horses and a buggy or two waiting in
front of Macquarie’s store.
(( “The old smoodger!” he thought bitterly.
“He’d sell his eldest daughter if it would
bring him another customer. And I don’t
believe he could lay his hands on the hundred
quid, anyhow, if it came to a pinch.”
Macquarie’s hearty laugh and his good-
humored banter floated over to him from the
hotel at night and kept his nerves on edge.
He did not go near the place himself, but
sat on his back verandah with his stockinged
feet on the rail, smoking a flavorless pipe
and accumulating bile.
Meanwhile Jordan, the cause of the latest
feud, w*ent his way quietly, as if there were
no storm about to break over his head. He
had got a casual job in the yard of the hotel
and seemed intent on demonstrating his so-
briety and industry in the six weeks of free-
dom that remained to him. He did not talk
of the charge made against him or attempt
to maintain his innocence. Instead, he
attended to whatever horses came in, washed
down the coach, and busied himself over
numberless little odd jobs. The only sub-
ject on which he was expansive was Mac-
q 'arie’s generosity.
“The old bloke’s a sport,” he told every-
body. “A real good sport, Macquarie is.
Once before he went bail for me when no one
else would put up the gonce. And' Lord
knows it ain’t on my custom he’s grown
fat.”
He reiterated this opinion to all and sun-
dry. He was a simple little man, and if it
had not been for his skill with horses would
have been thought a trifle soft in the head.
Besides, it was known he had practical
capacity in other directions. He had been a
skilled baker at St. Helena, when serving a
Previous sentence, and this had gained him
many privileges on the island. The place
had some of the associations of home for
him. and it could not be said that he dreaded
going back.
I o Bryce, indeed, his calm acceptance of
he situation was particularly galling. There
’ f not seem a chance of this tame little
man putting Macquarie’s hundred pounds in
jeopardy. He told himself that he was a
wil.not to have taken the risk and got the
credit and the custom. But in his embit-
terpd mind the yeast of inspiration was
working.
Three days before the trial Jordan dropped
into his store for a plug of tobacco. Bryce
looked at him from behind the counter with
.. twisted, sardonic smile.
“Well,” he said drily, “looks as if you
were up against it this time!”
Tes, that’s right,” said Jordan without
emotion.
Bryce glanced out of the door and up the
deserted street.
“In this country,” he said ironically, “it
don t matter what a man does so long as he
doesn t get caught. There are plenty of men
with big stations to-day who started out by
putting their brands on other people’s pro-
perty. People within a hundred miles of
here, too! I could tell you some tales that
would open your eyes.”
Jdi'dan’s eyes showed no signs of opening.
lliere s a lot in that,” he answered non-
committally.
“And if a man lets himself get sent down,”
said Bryce insinuatingly, “he’s only got him-
self to thank. It s the clever chap who
dodges what’s coming that gets all the
kudos.”
Jordan seemed stirred by a sudden sense
of injury.
ihat grey horse,” he said, “was as good
as a brumby. Over eight year old, it was,
and had never seen the inside of a yard since
it was branded. You c’d hardly make out
the brand with a microscope either. That’s
the flamin’ truth.”
“I knew a bloke once,” said Bryce remi-
niscently, ‘who was out on bail in a case
just like yours. He slipped off one night,
and he owns a horse-station on the Culgoa
now.”
. Jordan pondered on this, slowly cutting up
his plug.
“Mac’s a white man,” he said. “But he
comes down to the train every night, as if
he expected me to slip off like that.”
. This seemed to make Bryce particularly
indignant.
Y\ hat sort of a fool does he take you
for?” he sneered. “If you really did want
to do a get, your game would be to ride over
to Moranda and board the morning train
from there. Once you got down to the coast
they’d have Buckley’s chance of finding
you.”
His black, gimlet eyes looked at Jordan
tauntingly, as if doubting his courage and
initiative. There was something hopelessly
unadventurous about the horse-thief’s face.
ITe could almost see the cumbrous machinery
of his mind rousing itself for movement. A
spirit of recklessness seized him suddenly.
He pulled out a drawer and tossed a note
over the counter.
“You could do with the loan of a fiver, I
suppose,” he said.
Jordan’s eyes lit up.
“Thanks,” he said. “You’re a white man,
Bryce. There’s nearly a month’s wages
owing to me at the pub. I didn’t like to
draw it for fear they might think I was
making a move.”
Bryce leant over the counter confiden-
tially.
“And if you ever want the loan of a
horse,” he said, “there’s that bay mare of
mine feeding in Johnson’s paddock by the
creek. I don’t mind lending her to a man
who’ll take care of her and see that she gets
back when he’s done with her. I can trust
a bloke like you, Steve.”
Jordan seemed overcome by the possibili-
ties that opened out before him. He offered
Bryce his effusive thanks and sauntered
back to the yard of the hotel, looking
straight ahead of him.
In the morning he was gone. The fact
excited more than a little commotion in the
township. No one had seen him disappear,
but a saddle was missing from the yard of
the hotel, and it was rumored that other
things were missing, too. It was felt that if
Jordan had managed to get ;«iy sort of a
decent horse he would be as hard to catch
among the mulga ridges as a flying scrubber.
The day was Thursday, and the trial was
fixed for Saturday in the neighboring town.
Everyone now remembered that Jordan had
shown signs of losing his nerve as the day
came nearer. He had grown restless and
uneasy, they said, and there was a strained
look about his eyes. The feeling that he had
played a mean trick on the township was
general, and it created a reaction against
him—even against the man who had gone
bail for him.
It was Bryce who was mainly responsible
for this. He spent the greater part of that
day and the following one in the bar of the
hotel, and seemed to take Jordan’s escape as
a personal grievance. The irony and malice
of his bitter tongue always made a little knot
of men gather round him.
“It’s all right for Macquarie,” he said.
“He hasn’t got a horse to lose, except the
old plug he drives in his cart. It wouldn’t
matter to him if the country was fill of
horse-thieves—there’d be all the more cus-
tomers for him. What the devil does he
want to butt in for with his hundred quid?”
He glared round with his belligerent eyes
and found no answer to the question. There
was a general feeling that, after all, Mac-
quarie had no particular right to butt in.
As far as Macquarie was concerned he
seemed to take the loss of his hundred
pounds philosophically. He accepted all
the chaff and banter that was directed
against him in good part, and was ready to
wait till the storm was over. He did not
appear to notice that Bryce had assumed the
role of popular hero. Hong ago he had made
up his mind to ignore Bryce in all circum-
stances, and whatever bitterness he felt
against Jordan was concealed deep in his
breast.
Late on Friday afternon he was standing
on the verandah of the hotel when a man
rode up on a roan horse, the white dust of
the track on his hat and shoulders. He
slipped off in front of the bar and it was
seen that there was something bulging in
the front of his shirt.
“Lord! It’s old Steve, after all!” said
someone.
A crowd at once, gathered round him, but
there was no sign on his simple face that
he guessed the reason of their surprise. He
carefully took out a black-and-white cattle
pup from hia^shirt.
(Continued on next page.)


'TveryTlc lure in i
Tells AStory'%
T\
iU
T
F,
■3
S
I!
i 1
i
THE KIDNEYS
NEVER REST
The kidneys never take a moment’s rest; they keep on wit
their great work of filtering out uric acid and kidney poisons
day after day, night after night, as long as we live. And s
important is their work that, even though they get only a littl
behind, no part of the system is free from danger; the bac
aches, the limbs drag, the eyelids seem like lead; there an
dropsical swellings, rheumatic pains, dizzy spells, urinarj
troubles.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are special kidney help
t They correct urinary disorders, gravel, bladder troubles —cur
backache, rheumatism, dropsy and every kidney complaint. The genuine D oan’s Backach
Kidney Pills are reliable for men and women, old and young.
Two Sydney People Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 10 Springside Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says:—“ln
common with many others I have nothing but good to say for Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Some few years ago I was suffering a good deal
with my kidneys, and in consequence was troubled with pains across the
small of my back and dizzy feelings, besides having no energy for anything.
One day my attention was called to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and in
the hope that they might benefit me I got a bottle. After taking them for
a few days my health began to improve, and by the time I had used six
bottles I was completely cured. lam very grateful to Doan's Pills for the
good they have done me, and I hope many will profit by my experience and
use this grand remedy. I never suffer with backache now; in fact, feel
splendid in every way.”
Mr. 11. (1. Alexander, Milton, Henley Road, Flemington, Sydney, says:
“For many years I was troubled with pains across the small of my back.
I used various remedies in the hope of a cure, but until I took Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills nothing did me any good. This remedy acted
splendidly, curing the pain almost at once and gradually curing me com-
pletely. It is a safe medicine and is not a purgative, nor does it rack the
system. People suffering from an aching back cannot go wrong in giving
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a trial.”
Mr. Alexander confirms the above, sixteen years later: —“I have still
the same good opinion of Doan’s Pills. They cured me of backache sixteen
years ago, and I have had no return of the complaint since.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILL
Price 2/9 per bottle, »
all Chemists and Stolen
or Post free from l oster-
McClellan Co., 76 pitt
Street, Sydney.
“I had to go back to the place where I
was working to see about my dogs,” he
told Macquarie. “1 sold the others, but
there’s this here cattle-pup. She’s a beauty,
and I wouldn’t take money for her. No, i
wouldn’t take a hatful of notes. You d
better have her, Mac.”
Through the group a little man pushed
himself, his face inflamed and his eyes pro-
truding. It was Bryce, very much the worse
for drink.
“And where’s my horse?” he roared.
Jordan was apologetic.
“That was 'a bit of rotten luck.” he said.
“She fell with me at Dunn’s Creek, and
broke her leg somehow. I had to borrow a
fresh horse at the station and get them to
shoot her. .. .But here’s the fiver you lent me
the day before yestiddy. 1 didn’t get a
chance to split it.”
He fumbled at his belt for his pouch ; but
Bryce had sunk down on a form by the door,
the muscles of his face working queer]y.
“It’s the heat.” said som„one, “The last
couple of days he's beep feeling it badly and
tanking up in consequence. ... Let’s have a
hair of the dog that bit him.’
VANCE PALMER.
His Photo on the Wall.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
!”
lie blew a cloud of smoke.
“Jack!” Her voice trembled. ‘"I
ain’t called yer ‘Jack’ often since ’e was
christened. To-day’s the anniversary” -
“Don’t I know that!” She understood his
roughness.
“And I thought”
She leaned back over her chair and care-
fully unhooked from the wall a photograph.
She" wiped the glass, and tenderly stroked
the red-plush frame with her rough fingers.
“I thought we might put a In Memorial
notice in the paper next Saturday with
p’raps a bit o’ poitry.”
“It won’t bring ’im back.”
“No, father, but it’s like doin’ something
for ’im. You can’t think ’ow I miss sendin’
the letters and things. The mails goin’ out
hurt as much as the mails cornin’ in—-except
the letters that came after we knew”
She flung forward on the table, her face
bowed on her arms. He laid his hand very
gently on the grey head. She looked up
quicklv, wonder in her tearless eyes.
“I think we ought to put him in, father —
he deserves it. Dpts go in every week not
’arf as good as ’im.”
“My oath, yes! Wot ’ill it cost?’
“I’ve got the money,” she said eagerly—
“five shillings. It’s two shillings for _ the
notice and sixpence a line for the poitry.
We’ll ’ave six lines like the Smithers.”
“Sixpence a line!” lie shouted. “Wot
pav yer, or charge yer?”
“That’s wot they charge.”
lie thumped the table and fiercely chewed
his pipe sideways. “An’ the poitry’s made
up fer ’em—given to ’em free. It’s down-
right damn daylight robbery! Talk about
sweatin’! I tell yer, the capitalistic
I,l ‘•Yes, father, I know. But wot about
Jack? Only last week the Smithers ad a
notice and six lines of poitry about tne
A “Wot! That bloke! Why, ’e never got
near Gallipoli!” , .
‘•No —and ’e giv’ ’is mother a terrible lot
o' trouble before ’e went” ,
‘•To Egypt—only to Egypt. ’ And got bitten
to death by a damn camel.”
‘‘Yes—and still ’e’s got ’is notice and six
lines of poitry in the Memorials— it s lovely
poitry, too. Mrs. Smithers say they all wio
it together, sittin’ round the parlor table, but
I know better! She pinched every line ol
it from the newspapers—l’ve got it ere.
She took an exercise-book from her lap ,
it was filled almost from cover to cover witn
military "In Memoriam” notices clipped from
the daily papers. She peered and read reij
slowly, following the lines with her finger.
“ ’Arolcl Smithers, aged 19, killed on active ser-
vice in Egypt, December 1, 1915.
Our ’Arold dear is now no more,
’E like a ’ero fell,
>E is not lost but gone before,
But where we cannot tell,
And now we’ve nothink left at all,
Except ’is photo on the wall.
Inserted by his lovin’ father, mother, brother, sis-
ters and Aunt Maria.”
There was a long silence.
“’E wasn’t a bad bloke, when you come to
think of it —and ’e tried to do ’is bit, any
way.”
‘•Oil, yes, father. And ’is pore mother was
tollin’ me only last week wot a. good eart e
’ad, and ’ow ’e was the loveliest baby you
ever saw.” She leaned back and re-hung the
photograph on its nail. "It’s good poitry,
ain’t it, father? All except their draggin in
their Aunt Maria just because she s got
some money and no kids.”
‘‘Read it again, mother.”
She read it again, right through.
He laid down his pipe. “It’s wot 1 call
reel poitry —specially about ’is photo on the
wall. It makes it all so reel to yer—brings
it right ’ome like, don’t it? If young
Smithers gets all that, our Jack deserves
somethink extra-special—eight lines at
He collected from various pockets a shil-
ling in small change, and laid it on the table.
“’Ave you made up anytliink yet, mother?
“Yes, I’ve tried to make up somethink
about ’im. It’s very ’ard. There’s so much
to put in.”
She unfolded a sheet of paper ; her hands
were trembling.
“Let’s hear it. mother.” He soothingly cut
fresh tobacco and filled his pipe. She began
in a low voice:
Our only son a year is dead,
’E like a ’ero fell,
A Turkish bomb exploded on ’is ’ead,
And blew ’im to where the angels dwell;
And empty now is Jacky’s bed,
’ls photo’s on the wall instead.
There was a long silence. Once she glanced
at him; he was puffing heavy clouds of
thought.
“Do you think it will do, father? I mean,
after we’ve put in your two extra lines?”
“Read it again, mother.” He leaned o\er,
following her finger as she slowJy read.
“You’ll 'are to shove that extia non s
worth somewhere into the middle, ’ he said
emphatically. “The poitvy must finish up
with the photo on the wall—though I don t
like imitatin’ the .
“Bother the Smithers!” She rapidly
turned the pages of the exercise-book. AN h>,
there was five photos on the wall in last
Saturday’s paper! Ain’t there thousands of
photos on thousands of walls? Ain t we got
a photo on the wall?” She turned and looked
at “Right-o, mother! Now, about them two
extra lines. I’d like to get in somethin
about ’is bein’ the champion lightweight ot
Woolloomooloo, and ’ow reel plucky e wos.
’E avos only ten when ’e threw that gibber
at the cop, and ivhen I tanned the ide ott
’im for goin’ to the two-up school e never
squeaked—’is lips just kep’ movin’, cursin
me all the time under ’is breath.
“O father, p’raps ’e wos prayin’! ’
“P’raps”—lie blew a huge cloud at the
lamp. „ , .
“An’ ’ow good ’e avos after —e neA'er went
again.” . ,
“I never caught ’im again. lhere aa as a
note of pride in his voice. “ 'Ow cute e avos
—cunnin’ as a monkey.”
“And, father, Avlien ’e avos three, Avot a
little trick ’e avos —such ideas ’e ’ad ! Always
askin’ questions!”
The man smiled just as she had meant
him to, and once again told the memories
that were his very own. She listened as
though she had never heard them before.
“I’ll never forget ’is face the day Ave
moved down ’ere from Paddington—’e Avas
lookin’ up at the sky, puzzled like, and sud-
denly ’e says: ‘Daddy, is Gord in Padding-
ton?’ ‘Course ’E is,’ I says. Wot else could
I say? ‘And is ’E in Woolloomooloo?’ he
says' leadin’ me on like the prosecutin’ ser-
geant in the police court. ‘Course ’E is, 1
says. Wot else could I say? Then ’e looks
at me as solemn as if ’e was the beak and
says, ‘Then why does ’E spread ’lmself out?
You could ’ave knocked me down with a
feather.”
“’E avos three shears and one month old
the day we moved —’e ’ad ’is blue overall on.
Wot Avas that other joke, father?”
He laughed loud. “I asked Father
Macguire that very question last time ’e ’ad
some words Avith me about keepin’ the
pledge. ‘A man can’t do everything’ I says,
leadin’ im on. ‘ ’E can,’ ’e says—‘with
prayer.’ ‘Why, e\’en Gord can’t do every-
think,’ I says'. He jumped as if a black
snake ’ad bit ’im, ’is eyes blazin’. But 1
says quite solemn, just like the Nipper,
‘Could Gord make a mountain so big ’E
couldn't lift it?’ ‘E stood thinkin’ and
frownin’ for a minute; then ’e says Jack
Nolan, pray more and think less, or you 11
come to a bad end.’ ” . <(
It was her turn for memories now. And
wot a lovelv baby ’e wos” —but the thoughts
were too much for her; her lips quivered in
silence. Then she broke out passionately:
“It’s not that I Avant ’im back; ’e’s safe Avith
Gord —if only I could keep on sendin’ ’im
Avarm socks and things, and get a letter noAV
and then sayin’ ‘The socks was bosker ’ She
sobbed unrestrainedly.
“Mother”—his hands closed on hers—
“couldn't you put that into the two extra
lines —about not bein’ able to send ’im socks
and gettin’ no more letters?”
She looked up quickly. “Why, father
that’s fine!” A very spasm of inspiration
shook her as she seized the pencil and sucked
its point.
“Yes,” she said excitedly as she wrote
“and I’ve got your tins of tobacco in as well’
Listen :—•
We send no more tobacco or socks,
And now the postman never
“Knocks!” He shouted the happy rhyme
with her; it was the only word of poetry he
ever composed.
“Now read it right through, mother.”
She read:
Our only child a year is dead,
’E like a ’ero fell,
A Turkish bomb exploded on ’is ’ead
And blew ’im to where the angels dwell.
We send no more tobacco or socks,
And now the postman never knocks,
And empty now is Jacky’s bed,
’ls photo’s on the wall instead.
“It’s grand, mother —quite different from
the Smitherses', and a damn side better,
too.”
“I’m glad yer think so, father. I think
we’ve got everything in now—poitry means
such a lot.”
“Yes. mother.”
“ ‘Our only child.’ Everyone who's ’ad a
child will know all that means—about ’is
little tricks, and the way ’e looked at yer,
and ’is clothes —and”
“Yes, it means all that. Wot about the
next line, mother?” *
“ ‘ ’E like a ’ero fell’ —that reminds us of
’is boxin" and ’is pluck, and all ’is monkey-
tricks when ’e was little.”
“So ’elp me, mother, you’re right—’e
couldn’t ’ave fell like a ’ero if ’e ’adn’t been
born one. And the next line’s fine because it
shows ’e wos at Gallipoli, and wasn’t bit
to death by a camel.”
And I put that in about the angels, be-
cause we know where ’e's gone all right;
and, besides, it’s much nicer than wot the
sergeant wrote” —she stopped.
He thought hard. “Ye-s-s, I s’pose so—
the Smithers might ’ave thought you wos
’avin’ a dig at ’em if you'd put ‘smither-
eens.’ ” She hurried on :
We send no more tobacco and
“Socks,” he said firmly. “’Ere, ’and it
over to me. mother.” He finished the lines
in a voice that was not his own. She looked
at him wonderingly ; tears were rolling down
her cheeks.
“Father —Jack —I’m goin’ to call you
‘Jack’ again—you been growin’ more an'
more like ’im ever since he went.’
He stood up, put his arm round her and
lifted her to her feet. Together they looked
long at the photograph.
“'E would ’ave made a fine man. if Gord
’ad spared ’im —just like you. Jack.”
“’E wos a fine man —a damside finer than
me.” GjM
“P'raps.” she whispered. “But I always
think of 'im as my baby.”
DOWELL O'REILLY.


■Hi
*
3*
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and Tiighest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The, Remedy used by Army and-Navy men.
Used since l.Wfi. CURES Write fur Rook
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on ‘‘Singleton's"—refuse all substitutes..
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
THREE -RZBBEE EYRES
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd,
77-79, Cannon St.. London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & GO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.:
COTTON BROS , 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.8.—70
“Indispensable”
—a word largely used in these days—may be said to accurately express,
in so far as any single word can, what is the careful and considered
conclusion which has been arrived at by many people who use
Beeeham’s Pills. They consider that Beeeham’s Pills are “indispen-
sable” to their health, and, as a matter of course, to their happiness;
and they never allow themselves to be without a supply of this valuable
medicine in their homes. This latter is an excellent idea, and one
worthy of imitation—for there is no doubt whatever, that, as a preven-
tive medicine —one that may be taken with confidence when perhaps
only an “out of sorts ” feeling is experienced and before any definite
ailment has developed—Beeeham’s Pills are a positive boon. They do
good all round;— they tone up the stomach, correct the action of the
liver, regulate the bowels and are a powerful agent in purifying the
blood. It is certainly a good plan never»to be without
BEECHAJVI’3
Plbbg
qpr"iiqpp 1 lyp
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECIIAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10-id (36 pills), 1/1 5 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
9 9
i i
ire
£S
-.-V •
-
( Patented)
F,q s
in/. each
Jl V / Post F fce
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
100%
Shaving
Efficiency
in
ri^nmg;
sH^wr®
CRIRI®
Chemical £o. : W
NcwftßK.rij.u\& p;
m
Mr
a
m
.:i!F
3
•SSs
IHIIBIIM
iaH«IB»Hg..I..IM
B£3
X
. 'y^7?
§n
■
;v> s •">' i
■
m-mws
I
Mfmeits
SHflwnc cnean
Thousands of businessmen who stnve for 100 per cent efficiency in the office
are still content with from 40 to 50 per cent efficiency in the bath room.
The demand for more speed, less muss, less of the tedium of relathering,
rubbing-in, and slow, difficult shaving, and less smart, bite and irritation, has
caused many men to discard successively the mug, the stick and the powder
as they would discard a wasteful, antiquated machine in the factory.
Mennen’s Shaving Cream overcomes every objection to mugs, sticks, and
powders. It is sanitary. It actually softens the beard. It leaves the skin
soft, cool and refreshed. There is not a bite or a smart in a tube of it.
Mennen’s Shaving Cream costs but little more than bar or -stick and lasts
longer than powder. A tube, if used according to directions, will deliver a
shave a day for months Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores
Cdy
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
109 Pitt St., Sydney
N. S. W.
17 Victoria St., Wellington
N. Z.
This coupon brings you a FREE sample of
MENNEN’S TALCUM FOR MEN
To G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
Enclosed please find penny stamped addressed envelope for free sample
of Mennen’s Talcum for Men.
Name
Address


mangrovite'
LEATHER
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
‘‘MANGItOV ITJK” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Wuwhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
Trade Mark
"ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE. ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Oannraon Steel Works. SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
rx3" ft x 3" -|x3 f/x4" fx4"
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LIL
379 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
A Saving of Two-thirds on the Paint Bill
(88 can be effected by building with
Hardies piBROLITE
rt vJOV
1N3W30
The Australian-made
Asbestos Cement Sheets
you save also o-n timber, because “FIBRO-
I/ITE” needs less studding.
I’ou save on labor, because “FIBRO-
EITE” takes less time to erect.
£l?TTtar?T “Defies Time’s
EJBROIjITE ’ hardens Touch ”
with age—is Kircproof-lj 1 ' "
and will not crack, chip,
rust or decay. Renovation
expenses are almost nil.
Send for Booklet “D” and
ample.
James Kardie 8 Go.
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
’Phone 6239 (3 lines).
SSI-3 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
WOLFE
-SCHNAPPS
THE
MADE FROM
BEST SELECT
ED'-'
BARLEY
AND
ITALIAN
JUNIPER
BERRY
*©
i fa
LOOK FOR THE NAME
m
fm&A
ye;
mm
“Clayton" Portable Steam Engrin
‘Tangye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
“Star” Portable Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies comprise
TANCYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types, etc.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNCLEChaffcutters.
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Cl utching Plants.
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR’* Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY,
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling Chaff cutter.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
of perfect reliability
The first great essential of “Wolseley” excellence is the fact
that they can be relied upon to give the best service in any
circumstances. *
The high standard of quality maintained by the manufacturers
is a guarantee of satisfaction at all times —and means that
money paid for a “Wolseley” is a solid investment.
Make enquiries from
Dalgety & Company, Ltd., Australasian Agents— All Branches.
<?
Designed to handle to-day’s work under to-day s conditions —
CINCINNATI PORTABLE ELECTRIC
>reast Drills
trills
Heavy Duty Radials
Tool Post Grinders
Bench
ers.
In the busy Engineer’s Shop a “Cincinnati** Drill or Grinder count for big' saving's in time, power and
labor. Think of the convenience of being' able to TAKE THEM TO THE WORK instead of moving
heavy material from place to place. They go wherever you want them, and ANY LAMP SOCKET IS A
SOURCE OF POWER either DIRECT OR ALTERNATING. Write to So/e Agents for Complete Catalogue.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MODERN SANITATION demands the DESTRUCTION of ail Refuse as the
only means of eliminating that growing peril, the Fly Pest
The “Guthridg” Destructor
provides the easiest and cheapest means for doing this.
Upwards of 100 “ Guthridg” Garbage Destructors sold in New South Wales alone for State Schools, Institutions,
Business Premises, Dwellings, etc.
This Destructor is now manufactured in a small size suitable for small houses.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY No matter what is burnt this Destructor is Odorless.
N. GutHridg'e Ltd.,
.
I
m
m
&
vs:'
m
THfi’Clfl HRID
GARBAGE-
"O&STRUCTOR
■:
m
Sa#pi3!p
.
3
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
City Office: Equitable Building, 350 George Street.
