

The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. Q. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
dzgsd
fdg
On all Gasses of Security
J3ir/Iv« DISCOUNTED
Easylerms &Lawest Interest
HEAD OFFICEI74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Central Manager.
fdg
' Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty'
dc
CD
QQ CO
r 5 g
$ <
T
SYDNEY.
—A
Ji-
lt
back
Take
I must ha
t
s
fincApplc Brand
HAMS S
bacon;
CHUBB’S
FIRE
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors ns being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs-
HANSEN’S
fd dfd
gdf ƒd
nr INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily afler
meals.
Awarded 1:10 First-Class Prize .'Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE SiLVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
A
MALTHOID
for better roofs.
Amiwud
perfect panelling
“Not the samo as others. ”
Samples and booK'at fraa f-rom Th* Parifflne Paint Company CD. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY 1-
LOCOMOTIVE:, GENERAL. & AGRICULTURAL. ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL & FARM WAGGONS. ' IRON & MALLEABLE. CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER DISCS
f eMUMVm/L£V'9
MACHINERY
“Robey” High-class Strain Engines, “National” Gas. OH and Suction Gas
Engines, Steam Waggons, Road Graders. Scoops and Flows, Nestable Corru-
gated Metal Culverts, Concrete Mixers, Discus Church «r»an Blowers, Malleable
Pipe Fittings, etc., etc. ALSO MODERN MACHINERY FOR Road Building
Earth Handling, Elevating and Conveying, Stone Breaking and Pumping and
Irrigating. Drawings and Suggestions gratis upon receipt of Rermirements.
Head Office: Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 38.—N0. 1940.]
[Thursday, April 19, 1917,
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Country Schools of Arts and Literary Institutes
Is Your Library up to date ? If not, let us attend to your book wants.
BECAUSE YOU ASK WHY ■
We allow you discount off all books purchased.
We carry the biggest stock of books and magazines.
We are the largest distributors in the Commonwealth.
We deal with your wants promptly and efficiently.
W/e can supply every late notable book at shortest notice.
If you arc dissatisfied with your present service try US. We are expert Booksellers
who,* specialise in library work.
SEND FOR OUR LISTS, POST FREE.
COLE'S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George Street, Sydney; 8 at Bourke Street, Melbourne.
H
FOR THE. LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
udson’s Eumenthol Jujubes,
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA, and the PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
Unlike Cough Medicines, Eumenthol Jujubes do
not interfere with the digestion. On the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the
food.
Sold by Chemists, tins \ /6 post free on receipt
of Stamps, from
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Company Ltd.
19 York Street. Sydney.
©
3P
A—The Larynx,
or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea,
or windpipe. C
The Bronchial
Tubes -of a dis-
sected lung.
D—A lobe of one
of the lungs.
[3
The Red Page
Epilogue
{At the Gate of the Sun, Bagdad, in olden
time.)
The Merchants.
Away, for we are ready to a man!
Our camels sniff the evening and are glad.
Lead on, O Master of the Caravan:
Lead on the Merchant-Princes of Bagdad.
The Chile Draper.
Have we not Indian carpets dark as wine,
Turbans and sashes, gowns and bows and
veils,
And broideries of intricate design,
And printed hangings in enormous bales?
The Chief Grocer.
We have rose-candy, we have spikenard,
Mastic and'terebinth and oil and spice,
And such sweet jams meticulously jarred
As God’s own Prophet eats in Paradise.
The Principal Jews.
And we have manuscripts in peacock styles
By Ali of Damascus ; we have swords
Engraved with storks and apes and croco-
diles,
And heavy beaten necklaces, for Lords.
The Master of the Caravan.
But you are nothing but a lot of Jews.
The Principal Jews.
Sir, even dogs have daylight, and we pay.
The Master of the Caravan.
But who are ye in rags and rotten shoes,
You dirty-bearded, blocking up the way?
The Pilgrims.
We are the Pilgrims, master • we shall go
Always a little further: it may be
Beyond that last blue mountain barred with
snow,
Across that angry or that glimmering sea,
White on a throne or guarded in a cave
There lives a prophet who can understand
Why men were born; but surely we are
brave,
Who make the Golden Journey to Samar-
kand. <
The Chief Merchant.
We gnaw the nail of hurry. Muster, away!
One of the Women.
O turn your eyes to where your children
stand.
Is not Bagdad the beautiful? O stay!
The Merchants.
We take the Golden Road to Samarkand.
An Old Man.
Have you not girls mid garlands in your
homes,
Eunuchs and Syrian boys at your com-
mand?
Seek not excess: God hatetli him who roams!
The Merchants.
We make the Golden Journey to Samar-
hand.
A Pilgrim with a Beautiful Voice.
Sweet to ride forth at evening from the wells
When shadows pass gigantic on the sand,
And softly through the silence beat the bells
Along the Golden Road to Samarkand.
A Merchant.
We travel not for trafficking alone:
By hotter winds our fiery hearts are
fanned:
For lust of knowing what should not be
known
We make the Golden Journey to Samar-
kand.
The Master of the Caravan.
Open the gate, O watchman of the nightl
The Watchman.
Ho, travellers, I open. For ivhat land
Leave yon the dim-moon city of delightf
The Merchants (with a shout).
We make the Golden Journey to Samar-
kand.
(The Caravan passes through the gate.)
The Watchman.
What would ye, ladies? It was ever thus,
Men are unwise anil curiously planned.
A Woman.
They have their dreams, and do not think of
us.
Voices of the Caravan (in the distance,
singing).
We make the Golden Journey to Samar-
kand.
From “The Collected Poems of James
Elroy Flecker” (Seeker, per Angus and
Robertson, 195..).
James Elroy Flecker, being dead, becomes
now a safe subject for critical praise and a
collected edition. He was 31 when he died.
Born in London, educated at Oxford,
entered the Consular Service, Sent to Con-
stantinople, returned to England, ill, recov-
ered and returned to his job the next year,
sent to Smyrna, miarried a Greek at Athens,
transferred to Beyrout, ill again—tuber-
culosis, sent by his doctor to Switzerland,
and died there after 18 months’ illness. An
excellent consul, they say.
The greatest penalty of being a passable
poet is that 'he is certain to be “collected.”
The value of a collected edition is that it
shows, or should show, the development of a
poet and the influence of his environment
upon Ms work; and this the Flecker Collec-
tion does well enough. The drawback to
such collections is that the editor inevitably
preserves the poet’s poor work and immature
work —stuff that the world doesn’t want and
that probably the poet has long disowned. The
ideal collection of any poet should be made
by himself when alive; it should be a selec-
tion rather than a collection. There is no
space in our memory for a poet’s second-best
if we would preserve bis best therein. Yet
occasionally the reader finds an interesting
example of a poet’s methods by comparing
his earlier work with his finished product.
Thus, in this collection the compiler quotes the
two versions of a Flecker poem, which shows
with what fine effect the mature Flecker
could discard the general word for the par-
ticular and do away with the weakening and
superfluous adjective. Here are the two
versions, the earlier first
I.
Once a poor song-bird that had lost her way
Sang down in Hell upon a blackened bough,
Till all the lazy ghosts remembered how
The forest trees stood up against the day.
Then suddenly they knew that they had died,
Hearing this music mock their shadow-land;
And someone there stole forth a timid hand
To draw a phantom brother to his side.
11.
A linnet who had lost her way
Sang on a blackened bough in Hell,
Till all the ghosts remembered well
The trees, the wind, the golden day.
At last they knew that they had died
When they heard music in that land,
And someone there stole forth a hand
To draw a brother to his side.
There are things worth preserving in this
collection, things like “The Translator and
the Children” and a v dozen others, written
when he was young; but this page finds the
real Flecker only in his later poems- I —of the
Orient or composed under the influence of
the Orient. “The Golden Journey” and its
accompanying poems, “Gates of Damascus,”
“Yasmin,” “Saadabad,” sufficiently express
Flecker, and form his brilliant and exotic’
individual contribution to English poesy.
But there are a few of his later poems, such
as “Oak and Olive,” “November Eves” and
“Stillness” that bear the authentic brand of
poetry. This is “Stillness” :—•
When the words rustle no more,
And the last work's done,
When the bolt lies deep in the door,
And Fire, Our Sun,
Falls on the dark-laned meadows of the floor ;
When from the clock's last chime to the next
chime
Silence beats his drum,
And Space lo'ith gaunt grey eyes and her
brother Time
Wheeling and whispering come,
She with the mould of form and he with the
loom of rime:
Then twittering. out in the night my
thought-birds flee,
I am emptied of all my dreams:
I only hear Earth’s turning, only see
Ether's long bankless streams-,
And only know I should drown if you laid
not your hand on me.
So having written a score of poems that
may have eternity in them, James Elroy
Flecker goes out at 31 and lies buried in a
collected edition among dross and, here and
there, a few pearls. But that is always the
fate of the poet.
Fiction
Farther Foolishness, Stephen Leacock’s
latest (Lane, per Dymock’s; 45.), is occa-
sionally foolish, but Leacock seems to feel
the strain of being a professional humorist
less than his rivals. There is always a sub-
stratum of satisfactory beer beneath his
froth. His “Stories Shorter Still,” especially
his condensed interminable novel, beginning
with Book I.: “Edward Endless lived during
his youth in Maine, in New Hampshire, in
Vermont, in Massachusetts, in Rhode Island,
in Connecticut,” and ending with : “Then, one
day, he married Margaret Jones. As soon as
he had married her he was disillusioned. He
now hated her. Then he lived with Eliza-
beth Smith. He had no sooner sat down with
her than he hated her. Half-mad, he took his
things over to Arabella Thompson’s flat to
live with her. The moment she opened the
door of the apartment he loathed her....”
are in Leacock’s own inimitable line. But
“The Snoopopaths” not only brilliantly sums
up the modern snoopopathetic novel, and it
badly needed a critical analysis, but in it he
works an amazing “scoop” on the innocent
reader that not even the most hardened
snoopopathetic critic could have foreseen.
Here is “The Woman”: “Whatever the
Woman does, her ‘gown’ is said to ‘cling’ to
her. If by any happy chance she throws a
lace wrap about her, then it clings; and if
she lifts her gown—as she is apt to—it
shows, not what I should have expected, but
a jupon, and oven that clings .. . 'The Woman
is The Wife of the Other Man. Just what
there is, for the reader, about other men’s
wives, I don’t understand. I know tons of
them that I wouldn’t walk round a block for.
. . . .The writer at once puts the two snoopos
—The Man and The Woman —into a fright-
fully delicate position... .Best of all, he is
brought accidentally into her room at an
hotel at night. There is something about an
hotel room at night, apparently, which tnrows
the modern reader into convulsions. . . .Now,
as a matter of fact, in real life, there is
nothing at all in the simple fact of walking
into the wrong room of an hotel by accident.
You merely apologise and go out.” But in
snoopopathetic novels you get this sort of dia-
logue :
“ ‘Helene,’ he croaked, reaching out his
arms, his voice tensed with the infinity of his
desire.
“ ‘Back,’ she iced. And then: ‘Why have
you come here?’ she hoarsed. ‘What busi-
ness have you here?’
“ ‘None,’ he glooped. ‘None. I have no
business.’ They stood sensing one another.
“ 'I thought you were in Philadelphia.’ she
said —her gown clinging to every fibre of her
as she spoke....”
Leacock’s parody of a Russian novel is
more labored; but there are various good
things about the war. At the end Leacock
neatly discusses humor, and points out the
difficulty there is in “making humor.” Be-
cause the result is gay and light, people think
the process must be. “The world’s humor, in
its best and greatest sense, is perhaps the
highest product of our civilisation—the really
great humor which, ouce or twice in a genera-
tion at best, illuminates and elevates our lit-
erature... .And here, in its larger aspect,
humor is blended with pathos till the two
are one, and represent, sis they have in every
age, the mingled heritage of tears and laugh-
ter that is our lot on earth.” And of that
humor Steuben Leacock is a painsworthy and
serious nractitioner, at his best uot in these
smart gibes at nceting modern American
follies, but in the genial B unshine Sketches of
a Little Town.
J*
Clemence Dane has done an interesting
thing in making an absorbing novel oift of
the mere reactions between a horde of school-
girls and their mistresses. There is only
one man in Regiment of Women (Heine-
mann, per Dymock’s Library), and he
arrives merely for the,' climax. The
atmosphere of this English private girls’
school is convincingly indicated, though one
hesitates to believe that this hectic and emo-
tional atmosphere general in English
schools or possible in Australian. Clemence
Dane works cunningly by apparently accept-
ing the conditions in the school as natural,
and allowing the reader gradually to realise
his distaste for this deliberate misuse of the
emotions of puberty, until at length the man
in the story is permitted to clinch the
reader’s uneasy suspicions by direct state-
ment.
Clare Bartill is a clever, selfish woman,
the head teacher in the school, who must have
adorers. She claims the affections of a suc-
cession of young girls and young teachers.
She is a tyrant to her innocent adorers, and
makes them or breaks them at her unscrupu-
lous will. Alwynne is a healthy and popu-
lar young teacher, who falls headlong
beneath the spell of Clare Hartill. But
Clare has also picked out a child of genius,
Louise, a girl of 13. Clare, by mingled
praise and blame, forces the brilliant but
immature brain of this kid to exertions
beyond her powers, and ultimately the strain
and the kid’s pathetic bfforts to win her idol’s
approval drive her to suicide. The matter
is hushed up, of course; but Clare is clever
enough to make her other worshipper, Al-
wynne, believe that hers was the blame. Clare
was a wonderful teacher; by the enthusiasm
and emulation she engendered she made her
pupils do remarkable work, but in the end
they paid for it in broken health or over-
stimulated emotions. As Alwynne says, “I
don’t think grown-up people understand
how girls are I—they 1 —they have to worship someone
at that age.. . .Louise had no one else—and
it just broke her heart. If she had been
grown-up it would have been like being in
love....lt’s just the atmosphere, and the
awful crowding. Such a lot of women at
close quarters, all enthusiasm and fussing
and importance. They’re all hard-working,
and all unselfish and keen—more than a ctowd
of men, would be, I believe. But that’s just
it—they’re dears when you get them alone,
but somehow, all together, they stifle you.
And they all have high voices, that squeak
when they’re keenest.. .. We do get on each
other’s nerves.” The author hints at the
way out —co-education.
In the end Clare has to meet the only
competition that she feared. Alwynne is
torn by her diyided affection —her humble
worship of the woman and her growing love
for the man. He wisely kisses Alwynne,
and Alwynne remembers “the first of Clare’s
rare kisses—the thin fingers that gripped
Iter shoulders; the long, fierce pressure,
mouth .to mouth; the rough gesture that
released her, flung her aside.” Ugh! And,
of course, the man wins, and in a powerful
final chapter the author draws a painful
picture of Clare’s defeat. The character-
drawing of this regiment of women and
schoolgirls is remarkably incisive; the novel
is a triumph in a difficult and rather insipid
genre.
Vol. IX of the first series of Historical
Records of Australia, consisting of Gover-
nors’ dispatches, edited by Fredk. Watson,
covers the period, Jan., 1816-Dee., 1818, dur-
ing Governor Macquarie’s administration, a
period of great growth and development of
the infant colony. Macquarie had great
powers and used them arbitrarily, lie ap-
pears to have, been Australia’s first Czar.
But his freedom from restraint led him into
serious blunders, such as “his actions with
regard to emancipists, his attempts to con-
trol the law courts, his flogging of free per-
sons without any magisterial inquiry, his
court-martial of the Rev. Benjamin Vale,
and his granting of a charter to the bank
of N.S.W.” Yet the colony benefited by
its purely material development and the ini-
tiation of a financial and economic systerti.
The most interesting of Macquarie’s actions
was his determination to wipe away the
birth-stain of emancipists and expirees. For
22 years a rigid barrier had been raised
between all who had arrived in the colony
free and those who had been lauded under
a sentence of the law, though there were
two exceptions, freely received into free
society, G. B. Ballasis, whose offence had
been duelling, and the Rev., Henry Fulton,
sentenced for complicity in the Irish rebel-
lion.
Macquarie began by appointing an ex-
convict as a magistrate at the Ilawkesbury.
His nominee, Andrew Thompson, had been
transported for the heinous crime of setting
fire to a haystack when he was 17 years
old. In those days apparently it was blas-
phemy to burn a haystack. Marsdea, how-
ever. protested, and among the free commu-
nity there was an .explosion of rage. Fredk.
Watson apparently comes to the conclusion
that the time for this attempt at a broad
humanitarian policy wasn’t quite ripe, while
Macquarie proved himself singularly unfor-
tunate in his choice of individuals for prefer-
ment. The Governor failed to force his
protegees upon Society, then predominantly
military. Though he invited assistant-sur-
geon William Redfern, transported for com-
plicity in the mutiny at the Nore, to Govern-
ment House, Redfern’s manner was resented
by society, and his social status remained
unchanged. Fredk. Watson blames Mac-
quarie’s methods for his failure to do,
what seems, to us at this distance, a decent
thing. He failed to force upon the Courts
the principle that a previous conviction was
no bar to the admission of an attorney to
practice, as the Secretary of State refused
his sanction. And in the establishment of
the Bank of N.S.W, Macquarie’s attempt to
secure full rights for ex-convicts, who num-
bered among them some of the richest men
in the colony, was beaten by the subscribers.
The net result was “exasperation and <ji s *
appointment to the entire class of emanci-
pists and expirees.” The editor, however,
finds that there was some justification for
Macquarie’s preference for settlers of the
emaneinist class ard his dislike of the poor
class of new-chum free settlers.
Australian
Poems, by J. Raymond (Specialty Press,
Melb.), aren t. This page hopes to keep
strictly to the distinction between poetry
and verse. The dictionary informs us that
poetry is “the art, or work, of the poet;
elevated expression of elevated thought or
feeling in metrical form,” and that a poem
is “a metrical composition especially of
elevated character,” while verse is “metri-
cal composition in general.” One may
quarrel with the dictionary for the clumsy
use of elevated, but the meaning is
clear. Anyhow, J. Raymond’s Poems belong
to “metrical composition in general.” There
is some pretty verse in this extraordinary
collection, there are a few correct but un-
distinguished sonnets, a long story of the
South Seas in correct verse, and occasional
fragments and epigrams, and nice reminis-
cences of Agnes and Edith and Fanny L.
and other initials; but the quality of the
whole is pedestrian. Yet there is a sugges-
tion of poetry, perhaps, in this :
The summer conies With pomp and pride
Through field and fragrant wood;
With her young love and pleasure ride,
And all their merry brood.
Beneath the scorching of the sun
Arises incense rare
From every thicket, honor done
To the bridal of the year.
All mother-naked, smooth and stripped,
The gom-trees stand, red-bolcd,
And every branch is newly tipped
With leaves of rosy gold.
The season moved me and I went
To the pretty, swarded glade,
Where she and 1 so often spent
The noontide in the shade.
The little mound where she would lean
Was like a lonely grave,
The bloodwood tree so thick and green
No more protection gave.
The heart I cut in the bark last year,
With bloody gouts and red,
Had oozed and curdled thickly where
She used to rest her head.
The authol* might also remember that
words like “hour” and “fire” are not dis-
syllables.


a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Buffalo Forges.
No man on the land can consider
himself up to date unless his farm equip-
ment includes a Buffalo Forge. The make-
shift for a forge, with which nothing near the
right heat can be maintained, must go, so be
wise and replace it with a Buffalo, which is
reasonable in price and can be depended upon.
Buffalo Forges are constructed to stand any
amount of hard usage. The legs are of seam
less steel tubing, fitting into deep sockets in
the hearth, and rigidly cross-braced. The
hearth consists of a round, substantially-ribbed
and reinforced casting, with tuyere plate. The
fan is of steel and is belted to a large pulley and
operated by the easy lever motion. The gears
are accurately fitted and work noiselessly.
Buffalo No. J5O,
£2/1/6.
Buffalo No. 5, £3/7/6.
You cannot make a mistake by instal-
ling a Buffalo Forge as part of your
farming equipment.
ANVILS.
40 to 49 lb. weight, 88/* per cwt.
50 to 59 lb. weight. 80/- per cwt.
60 to 69 lb. weight, 77/- per cwt.
VYCES.
451 b. and over, 7d. per lb.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Reliable Ch&ffcutters.
The Bentall CDA has a fixed
mouth 7iin. wide, the mouthpieces
being specially chilled. It is mounte
on cast-iron legs, cuts -}in. and
Price
£5/2/6
The Bentall CXB.
g f
The Bentall CD A.
-Lhe Bentall CXB has a Rising
Mouth, 7fin. wide, with weight,
and cuts two lengths, and
sin. It is furnished with strong
cast-iron legs, the mouthpieces and
the reversible worms to regulate
the cut being of specially chilled
iron. A most reliable cutter.
Price
£5/12/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Crushers and Sheliers.
m
Bentall’s Grain Crusher,
£5/7/6.
The No. 8 Corn Shelter,
illustrated, is a handy, reli-
able implement, which will deal
with 20 bushels hourly.
Price 85/-
No. 15, a two-hole Corn
Shelter, has a capacity by
hand of 25 bushels per hour,
and 60 bushels hourly if worked
by power.
Price
£B/10/-
Bentall’s G.M.E. Grain Crusher will
kibble oats, barley, malt, maize and
dry beans. A peck of oats can be kibbled
in from 3 to 4 minutes, ami 4SOlb. maize
in an hour. It has two wrought-iron, case-
hardened, grooved rollers, and is fitted
with a slip-plate for adjusting the feed
and a screw regulator; mounted on steel
legs, and furnished with a round hopper.
Price
£5/7/6
No. 8 Corn Sheller, 85/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Machine Tool Grinders.
The Man on the Land requires something: better than a tile or an old-fashioned
grindstone to keep his tools and implements in a condition that they will do
the work required of them. A Pike Machine such as is here illustrated
supplies that want.
p:
w:
m
Pike Senior Model.
The Pike Peerless
Senior is a powerful, com-
pact grinding machine,
upon which a wide range
of work can be performed
It is equipped with a
6 x H in. Pure Corundum
Wheel, and by means of the
tool rest and chisel guide
chisels, plane irons, shears,
twist drills and cutters of
all kinds may be easily
sharpened. The grinder is
well built and is easily
worked, and does not get
out of order quickly.
Price 30/-
We also stock the Pike
Peerless Junior, built on
similar lines to the Senior,
but smaller. It carries a
sxl in. Pure Corundum
Wheel, but it possesses the attractive features of the larger grinder.
Price 21 -
Foot attachment for either model 7/- extra.
The Pike Whirlwind, another model, gives a high speed and great power.
It is geared 26] to 1, and develops a periphery speed of over .1000 feet per
minute, making it the fastest-running hand-power grinder constructed.
It stands 134 in. high, and is supplied with an 8 x 1 in. Pure Corundum
Wheel. An extremely useful grinder. Price, complete with tool rest
55/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd,
SYDNEY NS W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New. Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


Winchester
dfgg
Cartridges
Shoot Straight
and Hit Hard
These two cardinal points
of a good cartridge, and
also that of reliability, are
always found in Win-
chester ammunition. No
matter what caliber cart-
ridges you want or whether
they are for use in a rifle,
revolver or pistol you will
get the best results by using
Winchester make. They
are sold everywhere.
Accept no substitute,
insist upon having
dfg
n ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired o f wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE AVINSLOW CO..
34i> Collins St., Melbourne, \ 7 ic.
\?/lien you want
" v a Soap to cleanse
the skin thoroughly, keep it
in healthy condition, and
remove all traces of
perspiration—get
’Toilet’ Soup
A good Soap to choose for
everyday use —pure, pleasantly
perfumed and antiseptic.
In 3 tablet boxes—from
local Chemists & Dealers.
Made by F. C. CALVERT &' CO.
Manchester, England.
iCARBOLICi
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them ‘‘Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
d
If any illustration appearing iu The
BcnxEim takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Edison BlueAmberol
Records for April
ƒd
Each record listed below is a good one—and sure to please
you.
Those that stand out because of exceptional merit are
many, and include “With Verdure Clad—The Creation”
(Marie Sundelius) ; “Battle Cry of Freedom” (W. Van
Brunt and chorus ; “I Seem to Hear You Gently Calling”
(E. B. Randolph) ; and “Strike Up a Song” (C. N. Gran-
ville and male chorus).
“So Long, Letty” (Helen Clark and J. A. Phillips), and
both Concert Records, will assuredly be in great demand.
Make a note of those that specially appeal to you, and
order as early ns possible.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
25236 My Old Kentucky Home Variations
( Foster-Spalding ). Violin, piano ac-
companiment by Andre Benoist.
Albert Spalding-
Air des Bijoux (Jewel Song)—“Faust”
(Gounod). Soprano, orch acc.
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2892 With Verdure Clad—The Creation.
Soprano, orch acc.
Marie Sundelius
2894 On the Hoko Moko Isle
Arthur Collins & Byron G. Harlan
2895 Strike Up a Song. Baritone, orch. acc.
Charles N. Granville and Male Chorus
2896 Songs of Other Days—No. 2 Mixed
Voices, orch. acc.
Metropolitan Mixed Chorus
2898 Call Me Your Darling Again. Soprano,
orch. acc. Elizabeth Spencer k Chorus
2899 I Seem to Hear You Gently Calling.
Tenor, orch. acc.
Emory B. Randolph
2901 Silver Threads Among the Gold. Xylo-
phone, unacc. Lou Chiha “Frisco"
2902 Wonderful Rose of Love. Tenor, orch.
acc. George AVilton Ballard
2903 (a) De Sandeman; (6) The Drum.
Male Voices, unacc.
Criterion Quartet
2904 Battle Cry of Freedom. Tenor, orch.
acc. Walter Van Brunt k Chorus
2905 Nanny (I Have Never Loved Another
Girl But You) (Harry Lauder).
Orch. acc, Glen Ellison
2006 Serenade—Les Millions D’Arlequin
Armand Vecsey & his Orchestra
2907 Lights of My Home Town. Tenor,
orch. acc. Walter • Van Brunt
2909 My Pretty Lena (Yodle Song). Orch.
acc. Ward Barton
2910 Serenade (Schubert). Tenor, orch. acc.
Burton Lenihan
2911 Aloha Oe Waltzes (for dancing)
.Laudas’ Society Orchestra
2918 Sybil Fox Trot (When Cupid Calls). For
dancing. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
2929 Lullaby—Jocelyn. Cornet, orch. acc.
Ernest Albert Couturier
2949 So Long, Letty. Contralto & Baritone,
orch.. acc.
Helen Clark & Joseph A. Phillips
9441 Swedish Guard March
New York Military Band
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. CWholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
TRADE MARK
Great
Chances for
Sportsmen 8 Farmers!
FURTHER
REDUCTIONS.
gfd
6 top action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with IV. W. Greener patent wedge-fast crossbolt.
, Usual Price, £5/15/-. SALE PRICE, £3/15/-
i ONLY CHAMPION HAMMERLESS D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, walnut stock,
„ Pl s * 01 I rted barrel. Usual Price, £lO. SALE PRICE, £6/6/-
6 ONLY 5.8.8. L. DUCK GUNS, long distance, top action, kill at over 100
-aJKSE;, Usual Price, £5. SALE PRICE, £3/10/-
lARMERS D.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 50/-. SALE PRICE, 27/6.
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 20/-
Colt’s Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
SR RABBIT RTFTEg ni laf . ftA , Usual Price, £6/6/-. SALE PRICE, £3/5/-
S.B. RABBIT RIFLES, kill at 100 yards. Usual Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6.
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CQ„ 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Four Sydney Nurses Highly
Recommend Clements Tonic.
Because they have noted that in cases of Weakness after fever andj
operations and general ill-health, a rapid improvement follows its use.
NURSE E. BENNETT, who has her own private hospital, “Mentone,” Ashburner
,he lM "~
“From what I know of your medicine there is no need for sick people to say
farewell to good health.
„ “J ha^ e followed the nursing profession for 10 years, and I have observed the
various medicines on my patients, and I agree with others that
Clements lonic is a remarkably good remedy for people who are affected with bad
nerves, melancholy and insomnia. It certainly has a curative power, and any
delicate person could not do better than take it. When exhausted it always gives
me renewed strength. "(Signed) NURSE BENNETT.”
NURSE O’SUEEIVAN, Redfern and Parramatta, of 34 years’ constant nursing
service in the above districts, writes that in her opinion Clements Tonic is a
™ e i\ C^ e * pecl ? U y suited to constitutions weakened by illness. She writes:—
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“I carried on my profession at Young Street, Jtedfern, for 25 years, and for the
last nine years at Parramatta.
“I have had a large number of sick people under my care, and it has been a
pleasure to recommend Clements Tonic. I knew it would give good results. My
niece was rather run down In health lately, but she is getting on splendid as the
result of taking your medicine. “(Signed) NURSE O’SULLIVAN.”
NURSE MARY ROE, 80 William Street, Paddington, sends her opinion of Clements
Tonic after 15 years’ professional experience.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“For many years Clements Tonic has been a great blessing to me. I take it
when feeling the least bit exhausted after the great demand on my services. I
have followed my profession for 15 years, and have a very large professional
clientele.
“I have recommended this medicine to my patients and others in cases of
Neuralgia, Indigestion and Bad Nerves. In my opinion there Is nothing to equal
Clements Tonic. I know of instances where it has almost wrought a miracle in
the health of many of my friends. Use this as you wish
“(Signed) NURSE MARY ROE.”
NURSE E. H. HALE, 603 New South Head Road, Woollabra, N.S.W., writes of
Clements Tonic:—“l recommend it to my patients in cases of Indigestion, Dyspepsia
and Acute Nervousness.”
This medicine is certainly one of the best Nerve Restorers possible for Invalids, or
those whose systems feel the strain of arduous labors, especially in commercial life.
A few doses of this medicine works wonders.
NURSE HALL writes:—
“I cannot estimate the value of your medicine.
“Where my patients show symptoms of want of sleep, nervousness and
dyspepsia. I often recommend it. My house would not be thoroughly equipped
without it.
“Personally I derive much benefit from a few doses of it when fatigued.
“(Signed) NURSE E. H. HALL.”
Essentially the medicine for the Invalid, or for those weak from overwork,
fever, or operations. It gives new life to the system, tones up the stomach, liver,
or nerves. Try it to-day.
CLEMENTS TONIC DOES GOOD BECAUSE IT 18,0000.
dements Tonic Ltd., Resells,


WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
M. Planes on a 7 year oU BritisJunade Ail*
Steel MHAD MODELS SVPEKBJ2
‘COVENTRY FLYER•
Rode 34(366 Miles In 866 Says
(officially authenticated'. Beet ov*r 6fO com-
petitors on up-to-date cy cleft.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
Dunlop Tyres. Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Est. 35 yrs.
MEAD
cxv
£3-10 to £9
Cwfiffi
Free 1 rial
r Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices, write for Free Art Catalogues
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Hunted.
Sra^RFOOL,
CELEBRATED
22
%
*
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
lias become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It Is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold In packets, (Id. each, or posted
direct by sending 7cl. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Ouerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W Bradley, Worando Buildings. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Bydney
L. Susman & Co., Merohante, Hobart fl
Just a Little
Sani-Flush
sprinkled in the toilet bowl every few
days will keep it white and sanitary.
It will make a hitherto odious task
easy. No dipping of water —no
scrubbing.
Sani-Flush
is unique nothing else like it.
It is meant to clean toilet bowls only
and does it thoroughly. Make sure
of a sanitary, odorless bowl by using
Sani-Flush regularly.
Ask Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sant-Flush or can
get it quickly; or write us a card giv-
ing your dealer’s name and we will
s
The* trapl
*»hich^you
have you
supplied.
Sani-Flush
should be
used in all
residences
and other
bu ildings
where there
are toilet
bowls.
Does not
injureplumb-
ing connec-
tions.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney N.S.W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.’’
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but cite) taking your treatment for U days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now
H. & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Conivell Street, Sydney.
_ [2.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
■<t7?rm
I
§
§
1
I
1
1
1
i
I
i
1
i
1
§
§
I
1
i
§
i
§
i
i
i
I
§
§
1
I
§
!§
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
99
99
Underwear
To see the Jason Brand on a garment
'is to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert fashioning have
gone to its making.
New ••Olympic’' Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 67 <s>
Baby is a
Connoisseur
Send for sample
of Mellin's Food
and Handbook
for Mothers
11 The Care of
Infants in Aus-
tralia " FREE
in his little way. He likes, and must
have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most effi-
cacious equivalent to Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the battle.
Then what a boon to the mother to
use a food which requires no tiresome
cooking or preparation.
Mellii&Fbod
is made in a flash needs no cooking
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
xcv
4
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its history
T HE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
xc
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia, Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 63 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Little Wind.
It comes, and goes, and comes again;
It dallies by the way
To tap with fingers petulant
A blossom-laden spray,
And murmur half-forgotten songs
Of fairyland and fay.
The grasses move in silken gowns
And whisper secret things;
A rose upon a slender stem
In fragile languor swings,
And a great, gold-embroidered bee
In bass harmonious sings.
Soft, with a light and fitful touch
Like earliest flecks of rain,
It sets a slim, adventurous shoot
Tap-tapping at the pane,
And stirs the leaves and goes and
comes,
To stir the leaves again.
VICTOBIA.
SYD C.
Hulks.
Here, in this Harbor-graveyard,
Beneath the starlit sky,
Barque and schooner and clipper,
Keeled in the black ooze lie.
Ugly and grim and graceless,
Thus be these rovers of old,
That danced on the morning waters
Or lazed in the Tropic gold.
Hither the tides come creeping—
Stealing about their sides;
They are dead to the winds, their masters.
And dead to the lift of the tides.
No more the breeze in their rigging
Sings in the golden noon,
No more, sails shortened at midnight,
They run ’neath a flying moon.
Man’s hand that made and garbed them
And gave them strength and speed—
Man’s hand has stripped and reft them,
And left them poor indeed.
Thus lies each old sea-rover
With rotting side and deck,
And yet—and yet far better
The reef, the rock, the wreck!
Of old, the great sea loved them.
She clasped them to her heart.
And whom the sea has wedded
No hand should put apart.
The wild gales speak her passion,
The breezes are her sighs;
The bones of these sea-rovers
They were her lawful prize.
To hide them and to shield them
Is all the sea doth claim —
To take them in their beaut.’
And keep them clean of shame.
Like worn and useless toilers,
In sullen gloom they sulk;
Barque and schooner and clipper
Each but a naked hulk.
x.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Amor Armatus.
Against the puny shafts of Love
I. scorning high to make defence,
Dwelt calmly in the Castle of
My Confidence.
But came a Day and thrilled a Voice:
“Arise, and front what was to be!
Or grieve thou now or now rejoice.
Love summons thee!”
I gat me gaily to the gate;
Instead of Boy with Bow displayed,
A Steel-clad Giant stood at wait,
Poising a Mighty Blade.
“And where is Love?” I wondering cried,
As half in smile and half in frown.
"Here!” brief the Warrior-shape re-
plied—
And smote me down !
An allegory this; but learn—
Of Hearts and Darts though poets
prate,
Love is a Tyrant, stark and stern :
For Love is—Fate !
N.S.W.
ALEX. E. MONTGOMERY.
To His Legitimate Lady.
I think it would be a most, beautiful world.
Much lovelier than this that we see,
If your hair in the morning were nattily
curled,
If no maledictions outrageous were hurled
At a well-meaning fellow like me.
Ah me, if the world were a beautiful world,
What a beautiful world it -would be!
I feel that this life would be wondrously
fine,
Most genial and cosy and pure,
If instead of mere water the taps ran with
wine,
If your temper (np fault can be found, dear,
with mine)
Were such as a man might endure.
Ah me, if this life were so wondrously fine,
It would be a fine life, to be sure!
But you and I manage to jog along still,
And we’re not always quite out of breath.
We dine (though we make a wry face at the
bill)
In town now and then, with Belinda or Jill,
Or we sup with Nerissa and Seth.
Ah me! yes, we manage to jog along still.
And I s'pose we ? ll be in at the death.
maobiiand.
BYRON BKER.


PERDPIAI
mti
Pi
D
C>
} tjjffl
c Turns JuniingJ
PERDRIAU TYRES give more than average mileage because they
are well and faithfully made of the higliest-grade materials.
The Three heavy, broad, flat ribs of the Perdriau, meeting the road
practically without fridtion, is one of the main reasons for the big
Perdriau mileages.
The PERDRIAU ROLLS OVER the road rather than RUBS
AGAINST it.
Less Rubbing means less wear, and less wear means more miles.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE
ADELAIDE 1
PERTH NEWCASTLE
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
[DENVER
PRICES
Single, 17/0.
Double, 22/0.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
%
\3>
»/L0
k
HANNIBAL
„ Motorists expect that every gallon of
Plume” will do its duty. They are never
disappointed. The quality of “Plume” is
the same wherever you get it—a uniform
quality which is rigidly maintained.
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting— Sweet Running More Miles
Such dependability is a boon to the
motorist. He can rely upon “Plume” to
give him the last ounce of power. “Plume”
is famous for increased mileage, easy
starting, and insures a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
The correct Lubricating Oil in your
Motor will overcome carbon deposit and
rriction. Gargoyle Mobiloils give perfect
lubrication. Write for free Recommenda-
tion Chart, which shows the oil you should
use in your car. “A grade for each type of
Motor. For sale at all dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
7
vxc
vxc
v
xcv
cxv
me*/?
m
aML At
Tyres are Probably Undersized!
Measure Them —and See!
IF you will call at any Goodrich Tyre
Dealer’s you can there measure your
tyres accurately, and accurately
adjust the Air-Pressure to efficient (with-
out excessive) Inflation.
This through the free use of the Good-
rich Compensating Scale, carried on the
premises for the convenience of Custom-
ers.
From that (or any other fair measure-
ment, test) you can verify that all. Milli-
meter Tyres, made in Europe (except
Goodrich) are seriously UNDERSIZED.
You will find, for instance, that the so-
called “815 x 105” varies, in measure-
ment, with different makers, from 9(5
m/m to 97, 98, 99 and 101 m/m.
* * * *
NOW it is not claimed here that the
first Makers of Tyres, who set the
standard of “Under-Sized” Tyres,
did so with any intention of defrauding
the Public.
Nor is it even suggested that those who
followed their lead (as indeed even the
Goodrich Tyre makers once did) tried
thereby to get paid for more than they
were delivering.
It is highly probable that the earlier
Makers based their Diameter-Sizes upon
what they expected the Tyre Covers
would stretch to when finally worn out,
instead of the actual size when delivered
to Consumers.
Be that as it may, the fact remains
(and the Scale, or the Calipers, will
prove) that Millimeter Tyres have NOT
the Air-Capacity their specifications, in
millimeters of Diameter, lead the Public
to expect.
This shortage of Air-Capacity (in pro-
portion to thickness of Tyre-Walls and
Load to be carried) can only be safely
compensated for by using a much
HIGHER Air-Pressure than would be
necessary to support that same weight of
Car, and load, if FULL-SIZED Tyres
were used.
That higher-than-necessary-Air-Pressure
then causes the Car to “ride roughly”—
to transmit much more Vibration, from
the Road, than is good for Car-Mechan-
ism, comfortable to Car-Occupants, or
conducive to long Mileage in the Tyres
themselves.
O O, these are the considerations which
prompted the makers of Goodrich
Millimeter Tyres to abandon tradi-
tion in Tyre-sizing—to bear the increased
cost of giving FULL-SIZED Goodrich
Tyres at practically the same price as all
other Makers charge for similar grade of
regular (or Under-Sized ) Tyres—trust-
ing to a greater volume of Sales for com-
pensation.
It is, therefore, respectfully suggested
that every Car-Owner who is interested
in obtaining greater Comfort (through
easier riding) from his Gar —with longer
life to that Car, and further Mileage
from his Tyres, should do this, viz.
Drive to the nearest Goodrich Branch
or Dealer, and there, with a Goodrich
Compensating Tyre Scale, measure the
actual cross-section Diameter of his
Tyres (when new).
Next, compare that Diameter with the
actual measurements of Goodrich Full-
Sis ed Tyres (when new), while compar-
ing also' tlie prices,
N being satisfied that a NOTABLE
difference in Diameter-Size and
Air-Capacity exists, he should then
have a pair of Full-Sized Goodrich Tyres
put on the rear wheels of his Car (re-
taining those replaced as Spare Tyres).
The half-hour of Driving which follows
will develop a new r meaning to the word
“Motoring”—through a new, and more
Luxurious, sensation of “Riding on Air”
than he had ever previously experienced
with same Car.
Please remember that Goodrich Full-
Sized Millimeter Tvres cost you no more
than same quality’ of “regular” (or
Under-Sized) Millimeter Tyres of all
other makes.
GOODRICH
FULL-
SIZED
DUVAL & CO.
13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
145 Collins Street, Melbourne
300 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TYRES


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1940.
THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1917.
Price 6d.
THE POTSDAM PROMISES.
BILL HOHENZOLLERN: “Don’t THROW me, beloved citizens—I’ll DIVE in!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number , to any
address in Australasia, post paid,
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused,
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or' translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short. Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable, Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted . for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e,, any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received arc those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained, in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.—iV. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and, D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and, Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home Nevjs Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt: M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co.. Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 BaiUie Street, Fort,
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
tOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; 8 JO2. to 10oz., 214.;
Woz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, )oz.. Id., and Id. each
additional ?.oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1917.
AMERICA.
When the darkness of the Middle Ages was
breaking into the ragged lights which heralded
the modern world of democracy, sewing
machines and policemen, America loomed
large and wonderful out of the seas of
high adventure. The tropic luxuriance about
the waist of the new continent lured the
brigand and exploiter; and the wealth which
Poured into Spain competed with the wealth
which England stole from Spain in financing
the great political movements of Europe. It
was towards Panama and Mexico and Peru
that the world’s eyes of greed were turned :
but north and south of these regions of fever
and gold lay the real treasure which for
the moment made no appeal to the get-rich-
quick Spaniard or the stoush-the-Don Eng-
lishman. The small sparse attempts at real
settlement, apart from plunder, scarcely
made a ripple on the surface of the times.
Virginia was a poet’s dream which through
travail and toil at last came true in a way
the original dreamers had least expected.
The Dutch settlement at New York was of
apparently less import than the sailing of a
Dutch privateer from the mouth of the
Rhine; and the French pioneering in the
Mississippi valley and lower Canada was
rather the work of exiles who feared to live
in France than a deliberately progressive
movement of the French nation. None of
these things were of much account in the
eyes of European statesmen; and even at
the end of the seventeenth century England
probably regarded her single island of
Jamaica as of more importance than the
ownership of the whole North American
continent from the Rio Grande to Green-
land. But among all the weak efforts at
settlement was one—on its face value the
weakest of the lot—which was destined to
prove the master-key to the continent’s devel-
opment and to open wide doors far beyond
its own domain. The Pilgrim Fathers have
passed into the splendid realm of poetic
myth, to stand beside the heroes of the
Homeric legend and the knights of the
Arthurian cycle; bat in spite of all the
fluting and piping around their memories
they were and still remain a reality. Few,
weak, dispirited, yet painfully self-con-
scious of the heroic part they were attempt-
mg to play, they took their Bibles, their
bigotry and their grievances into the inhos-
pitable waste, and in doing so turned a page
in the world's big story. They fought the
Indians, burned witches and chased Quakers
with some enthusiasm; and every pinch of
the winter cold added to the intensity of
their hate and loathing of the religious
despotism that had driven them overseas.
That hate and loathing, in their descendants,
mellowed into a large, wholesome love of
liberty, coupled with a sober regard for citi-
zen duties and tempered with the horse-
sense and caution which a fair stand-up
light with natural conditions had produced.
North America since then has developed
strangely. Into the western ports has poured
a ceaseless stream of those who were tired
of Europe, who hated a priest or a king, who
were angry because they were hungry or
who fled in sheer terror of their lives from
offended power. Those who wanted to get-
rieh-quiekly scraped together the passage-
money and reached New York; those who
wanted to evade their European creditors
did the same. In a stampede from Toryism
and militarism and Kaiserism and Dublin
Castle and the Cossacks and the potato
blight and cent, per cent, and the police the
mixed millions of all that was best and
worst in the Old World made for the United
States. And the amazing thing about it all
was that in the essentials which really count
the spirit of the men of Massachusetts leav-
ened the lot. In one generation everything
that came into the big republic grew suffici-
ently Yankee in spirit to wear the name in
the eyes of the world. You cannot read
modern America in terms of early Virginia
or Louisiana; but you will miss its meaning
altogether if you leave out Miles Standisij
and Plymouth Hock.
In the great drama of human liberty
America filled the stage for the short third
act. The play began in a loose sort of way
with the peasant risings in England led by
Wat Tyler and Jack Cade, with Wycliffe
chasing a begging friar in the background,
and gathered head and momentum while
Luther, Henry VIII. and Calvin in turn
took the limelight. Act TI was Oliver Crom-
well’s, with Charles I. as the villain-martyr
strongly in evidence. America’s War of
Independence and the overthrow of the
divine right of kings to govern wrong in
their outlying dependencies while they ate
out of the hand of democracy at. home made
the third episode. The French Revolution
was the fourth. The hanging of the Kaiser
will ring down the curtain on the fifth and
last. The big thing that America taught the
world with such emphasis, and which France
learned with sudden Gallic inspiration, was
that ancient institutions might yield to
moral force. The force by which America
won her freedom was almost entirely moral.
England might have exerted enough power
to crush the insurgents of Boston into small
dust; but England—the England that re-
membered Cromwell and the Stuarts —had
never any real desire to win. Compared
with the power of Napoleon that of Wash-
ington was as a stinging gnat to a full
grown tiger; but England smashed Napo
leon, and Washington stung England to
the extent of making her let go. The result
was a tremendous object-lesson to mankind ;
and Frenchmen at sight of it suddenly
ceased to gnash their teeth in impotent
despair and, conceiving that right might be
stronger than apparent force, pulled the
front out of the Bastille. The word America
spoke in her Declaration of Independence
has never ceased to ring in the ears of
Europe. Always tljere has remained a faith
in the essential power for right of the big
Republic beyond the Atlantic; and always
the eyes of the oppressed have been turned
in that direction as towards the ultimate
hope of a world gone wrong. Opinions of
England and England’s peculiar democracy
were mixed ; but the faith in America never
faltered.
* * * *
In the big war for the liberation of the
slave against certain elements in America
which were not American the feeling of the
world towards the country which stood for
so wide a freedom was intensified; then
came an aftermath that might well have
shaken the foundations of faith. The tremen-
dous industrial development of the United
States, millionaires, the growth of luxury,
Chicago, the Beef Trust, the vapidity of
American journalism, the blatancy of Ameri-
can boasting, the increasing greed of the
dollar, Roosevelt, the Colorado riots and a
thousand other things suggested a nation
run to seed with too much prosperity and
trembling towards the brink of bloody revo-
lution. There were still those who asserted
that the heart of the country was sound,
that its pulse could even now quicken to
great movements; and, through all, the faith
of the down-trodden of all lands remained
unshaken. At last came the tremendous
crisis of Armageddon, when the full force of
Europe’s strongest nations was thrown into
the field and war against the spirit that
made war possible was loose on land and
sea. The causes seemed clear; it seemed
equally clear that despotism was for the
moment triumphant. The United States
remained neutral and kept working at high
pressure to make money out of the war.
Men everywhere cried shame upon a free
land which could remain unmoved amid the
storm; but the faith in America among
Europe’s worst-treated millions remained as
strong as ever. The war went from bad to
worse. Small nations were trampled under-
foot. The freedom of the seas was challenged
by the creeping submarine. Americans died
at the hands of the enemy of civilisation.
The American reply was in words written
on paper; and the chorus of mocking of
such mildness in the midst of murder and
insult became worldwide. It seemed as if
nothing could move the giant Republic to
action. It was too safe, too prosperous, too
easily placed amid its ever-accumulating piles
of dollars. But the faith of the far multitudes
still held, and men even based new theories
of peace on America’s meekness under shame
and injury. But America was not meek nor
lazy nor wealth-weary. The long, cautious
approach to a desperate anneal to force was
slowly being made by the Puritan conscience
of Massachusetts, which is the raee-eon-
science of the nation. A hundred millions
of free people of thirty different nationalities
with the conscience of the war-hating, mind-
your-own-business individualists of Ply-
mouth Rock must of necessity take some
time to make up their minds about the
weighty matter of cutting someone else's
throat: but the result was certain. Men
and women in America went about for two
years with the grave responsibility of
decision always confronting them. Gradu-
ally the country made up its mind. The
faith of the world was justified. The sword
of Standish and Washington and Lincoln
was drawn with no misgiving and no boast-
ing on the side of truth and humanity. In
the Hash of that great national purpose all
the sins and shams and extravagant follies
that freedom has allowed because it was
freedom and hated to trammel even the
thing that sapped its strength are falling
away that the sword-arm of the Republic
may be free. The millionaire will fight with
his dollars for liberty as readily as the fac-
tory-worker with his manhood for the sake
of his serf-brother overseas. The idealism
that made Bunker Hill possible lives in spite
of all; and America at the peace table still
more than America in the fighting ranks will
help the world forward to its place in the
sun. The mere fact that the first people’s
voice to be heard speaking for modern liberty
is still in the battle has heartened up the
whole world. The gage of the Republic on
behalf of humanity has been thrown down
and the great objective of Man will be
reached the more surely because the most
reluctant of the nations is angry with a
cause.
PARTYMONGERS AND THE
PEOPLE.
Supposing a majority of Libs, survive the
Federal elections, what will Hughes and
Cook then claim to have ascertained from
the Voice of the People? What will their
“mandate” be? What are the electors to
regard as the work of Parliament during
the next three years? What will the
Fusion be pledged to do for the people? So
far as The Bulletin can make out from
the speeches of Hughes and the splutterings
of the daily newspapers, a Liberal win will
be taken to mean, lirst, that the electors
instructed Hughes, Cook and Co. to Jiang
on to their jobs; and, second, that "the
public wished to be governed by men who
were responsible only to the electors in-
stead of to obscure juntas.” Also it will
be incidentally claimed that the Lib.
majority was due to the “disloyalty” of
Labor; to anxiety to see Hughes represent-
ing Australia in London; to great public
confidence in the administration of the
Defence Department, by Pearce ; to acqui-
escence in a policy of leaving the tariff
unaltered; and to enthusiasm for the project
of borrowing £30,000,000 or so to buy estates
(this is called the repatriation of Australian
soldiers). Suppose, on the other hand,
Labor acquires a majority, what will it
claim to have heard the public say? Mainly,
it appears, that the community had damned
the Phewsion as an unholy thing; that the
electors wanted nothing to do with compul-
sory military service; that in the judgment
of the constituencies juntas were harmless,
necessary things; and that Parliament should
proceed to revise the tariff, impound war
profits, relax the censorship, secure to the
Commonwealth Parliament authority to legis-
late with respect to the initiative and refer-
endum, trusts, combines and monopolies, and
the employment of labor. Boil this down
and the meaning of it is this: that Labor
stands very much where it was before, with
a positive policy, and is up for judgment
partly upon this policy and partly upon its
past performances; that the Australian who
votes for the Phewsion votes in the dark
for a policy undisclosed, expresses approval
of a Ministry born in an aroma which
almost suffocated men like Irvine, Millen
and Glynn, and condones the use for party
purposes of cries about “winning the war”
and “disloyalty,” which in their essence are
but a repetition of the despicable attempts
made in Australia many times before to-day
to make party politics the test of patriotism.
The vote that goes to Labor goes at least to
a party which offers something that can be
understood —to a party having a conception
of the work it should be the duty of Parlia-
ment to perform. Above all other things
that vote goes against giving Hughes and
Cook and their friends a blank cheque to fill
in for themselves. They are not to be
trusted.
But, whatever the result of the struggle
between the organisers and their marionettes
may be, the elector is certainly going to get
another large supply of evidence regarding
his own helplessness and the abominations
of party government. The only choice before
the elector is to swallow one side or other
holus bolus and then sit back to wait for
the wmrst or pray for the best. Labor was
given a majority in last Parliament on a
series of definite pledges. All of these but
one —that relating to prosecution of the war
—it shirked with a persistence that was
shameless. Its programme for to-morrow is
the programme it dodged yesterday. After
next month’s election the men and women
whose votes are to determine the strength of
parties will have no. more control over public
policy for the next three years than they
had during the last three. The Liberal
elector with a detestation of juntas must
vote for Liberal juntas or else be unable to
throw a brick at Labor. The Laborite and
Liberal who regard with disgust the crude
bellowings about “militarism” that have
come from one corner and the reckless
blither about “Empire” that proceeds from
another must either vote for more of the
same thing or not vote at all. If a citizen
who voted against compulsory service at the
plebiscite, because he believed Australia had
done or was doing as much as was required
of her, votes Liberal next month, that vote
will be counted as implying the owner’s
belief in the disloyalty of Labor and a
desire to see comnulsory service adopted.
Should another citizen think the Fusion an
unclean thing and a libeller of good Aus-
tralians when it challenges their patriotism,
yet believes ther° is still room for a measure
of compuls T on for service in the army, he
must vote for a Phewser and a libeller, or
else let the other consideration go hang.
And the man with a strong suspicion that
Labor has been foregathering in a friendly
way with the beasts at Ephesus, that its
resolution has been sapped and its ambitions
corrupted, yet nauseated by the “war win-
ning*’ imposture and convinced that Liberal-
ism is more dangerous to Australia now
than ever—how will such a citizen cast a
vote that will be anything but a mockery
of his enfranchisement? The brutal truth
is that popular government is with us a
delusion. The people do not govern them-
selves. They get no chance other than to
choose between the worst of two evils, and
whichever way they choose the Parliament of
their making is born to party slavery. What
that means in the way of degradation Aus-
tralians have had some sharp reminders
from both States and Commonwealth.
National interests —the people’s interests—
are bones for hungry place-hunters to
squabble over while the public looks on,
powerless to interfere.
* * * *
Let any citizen of Australia take this
question of “winning the war” and see how
it is being used to distort Australian politics,
give a political party a new status and divert
attention from the national problems the
country has always had with it. The
Liberals are claiming to be the only people
who want to win the war. Everyone else
is a traitor. And how do they propose to
win it? By promising, “if the necessity
arises” to take a second plebiscite on con-
scription—and they do this in N. S. Wales
where the people have just elected another
“win the war” crowd of Libs, to the State
Parliament after that crowd had pledged
itself up to the hilt to resist any re-opening
of the question and to oppose it if it were
again brought forward. Is the State Liberal
organisation, like the Labor Party, composed,
in the judgment of Hughes and Cook - , of
traitors and tricksters or of sturdy patriots
like themselves? They ought at any rate to
explain what they mean by asking Liberals
to regard Labor as traitorous because it
does not promise to assist a “win the war”
policy which Liberals have declared their
opposition to. Of course Hughes knows
well enough that this talk of his about a
plebiscite “if the necessity arises” is sheer
humbug, thrown around to obscure from the
people the truth that when the “necessity”
for compulsion actually arose he was going
about with a month full of objection to it.
Conscription was possible then ; it is impos-
sible now. Another plebiscite would be futile
or worse. Hughes’s “win the war” pro-
gramme is. in fact, no different from that of
the other side—except that he is always talk-
ing about it. But because the other side has
been allowing several people to make con-
spicuous asses of themselves he cunningly
started his yell about “loyalty” and now
endeavors to make the election turn upon
that alleged issue. Tinder cover of that bogus
cry a Parliament, practically irresponsible,
may not inconceivably be elected. The elec-
tors would have no control over it. Its
actual policy might be anything. Can the
Australian people contemplate this with in-
difference? This paper hopes not. The
Bulletin is as conscious of the blots on
Labor and of its sins as anyone else. But
it knows that, in spite of these and the
fumbling uncertainty and cowardice of many
Labor men, Australia has everything to gain
just now by standing fast, to the doctrine of
Australian nationalism and the principles
of self-government which form the ground-
work of the country’s institutions, and have
given breath of life to our democracy. These
are in grave peril. They are not referred to
in party manifestoes nor spoken of on public
platforms. But their defence will need to
be more steadfast in the days to come than
ever before in the country’s history. Parlia-
ment may be a poor thing to rely on. But
it is the only thing we have. If from that
Parliament is taken the sole force in national
politics which has stood squarely for Aus-
tralia and in its place is put a party con-
fessedly ready to commit itself to hare-
brained schemes of organic Imperialism, the
Commonwealth will have taken a long step
backward. For the Labor Party in some of
its aspects The Bulletin has as little re-
gard as for the Fusion. But it is through
the Labor party alone that the electors can
now expect to acquire anything like direct
authority over Parliament, the absence of
which makes democracy a sham, and it is
certain that only to Labor can Australia
now look for anything better than loud
clamorous .talk, and for the preservation of
Australian Nationalism.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George Street, Sydney. 1
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Blister on Australia’s Chest.
Speaking to a suburban audience near Syd-
ney the other night Pratten, a Phewsion
candidate for the Senate, explained that “as
by June Australia would be burdened with
a debt of £200,000,000 and an interest-charge
of £9,000,000 per annum, it would be seen
that there were problems which would have
to be dealt with in a business-like way."
To deal with the problems in a business-like
way the whole facts must be laid on the
table. Pratten doesn’t lay them on the
table. The debts of the Australian States
are as much part of the national burden as
the debt of the Commonwealth. The finan-
cial problems of the Federal and State
Parliaments are inseparable. The taxpay-
ers are the same; the pockets touched are
identical. By June the debt of the Com-
monwealth will bo about £200,000.000; of
the States about £400,000,000. The yearly
charge for interest will be approximately
£20,000,000. But the war expenditure is
not going to end by June. The habit of
flinging away cash is not going to stop by
then either. Before the Australian citizen
slays the Christmas turkey the interest-
charae on his country will be in the vicinity
of £25.000,000, and the public debt will be as
great as the one Britain was struggling with
before the war and nearly twice the size of
the Imperial debt of Germany prior to 1914.
If Pratten and everybody else who talks
about debt and “the problems of the future”
will state the whole case instead of skir-
mishing on the outskirts of it, perhaps the


public will begin to sit up and take notice.
The essential point of it all—the crux of the
“problems” which politicians are vaguely
talking about —is that, unless production in
Australia is immensely increased and the
fat-headed debauchery on imports stopped,
this country is going to be faced with some-
thing having a close resemblance to ruin.
llow are they going to increase production
and stop imports? Especially, how do the
Freetraders propose to do it?
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. 11.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and I). M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
Why Australia. Is Not at the Conference.
Phewsion’s explanation through the mouth
of Hughes:—
Why is the voice of Australia not being heard at.
the Imperial Conference? Because the party which
opposes us is concerned not at all in matters of
Empire, it is concerned more with side issues, narrow
sectional interests, and with a desire for vengeance
against me. Its outlook is incredibly narrow. It
does not see the world and the mighty problems
which have to be faced by us. In order to serve its
narrow, selfish aims, and wreak its vengeance upon
me, and prevent me from representing Australia at
that conference, it refused to extend the life of
Parliament, and that is why we have an election
now. (Cries of “Shame.”)
And the Argus and the Sydney Telegraph
and all the rest of the stalwart barrackers
for the unsavory Phewsion grind out the
same old yarn from day to day. That it is a
lie matters nothing to them or to lIUGnES.
The fundamental reason for the election is
that the Commonwealth Parliament, which
had been a loafer for nearly three years, had
become unworkable. The actual, immedi-
ate reason for the election is that two Lib-
eral Senators — Bak'haf and Keating—
declined to support the Government’s pro-
posal for the extension of the life of Parlia-
ment, and Hughes declined to go to London
unless he had a resolution from both Houses
on this subject in his pocket. He had his
bags packed for the trip. The luggage of
Irvine and Forrest was also ready for the
carrier. By the appointment of Earle to
the Senate the Labor majority had been
turned into a minority of one. Labor was thus
powerless to stop either the delegation or
the resolution. But at the last minute Bak-
hap and Keating jibbed. It was they who
forced Hughes to stay at home and apply to
the Governor-General for a dissolution. What
is the good of him now yelling up and down
the country that “people who care nothing
for the Empire have compelled us to have
an election and prevented Australia being
represented in London” when the truth is
that it was two Liberals who at the last
moment declined to be parties to the con-
spiracy, and so spoiled all the Government’s
plans? But even this did not stop the Gov-
ernment from nominating Andrew Fisher
to represent the Commonwealth. Hughes
himself is responsible for that.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and I). M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
»
A Chance to Give Dodder a Push.
Ban an aland electors are to have an oppor-
tunity next month of saying whether they
want the Legislative Council abolished or
maintained as part of the machinery of
government. The question is one about
which it should be easy for them to make
up their minds. The Council is a nominee
bodv. It is a junta of the very worst kind.
Not by the wildest stretch of imagination
can it be regarded as of any assistance in
wanning the war. Its upkeep represents a
scandalous waste of good money. Constitu-
tionally it is a relic of bygone ages, lie-
fence of such a body as this is impossible.
Even the intelligent section of Fat realises
that it is an aid to dishonesty, inasmuch as
a tricky Ministry can make insincere pro-
mises and pledges with absolute confidence
that the Council will assist by convenient
opposition. To men of the stuff that democ-
racy is made of the existence of tins
anachronism is a permanent affront. Being
what it is no more can be expected from it
than a continual exhibition of antediluvian-
ism. The vote next month will not wipe
the Council out —there has to be an amend-
ment of the State Constitution before that
happens—but it ought to go a long way
towards doing it, and the bigger the majority
the greater the likelihood of this happening.
The Parliamentary system of Australia is
absurdly elaborate, and the sooner the people
get rid of a substantial proportion of the
existing Fourteen Houses the better. The
Bananaland plebiscite may be the beginning
of a big job in a small way; and. that. is a
very good reason why the local inhabitant
should arise and awake and do the thing
properly. The chances the people get to
knock out these time-corroded strongholds of
political astigmatism are much too limited to
let even one escape.
♦
A Theory of Woodrow.
“Pat O’Maori’’ grows enthusiastic: —
Building on important, though, I admit, insufficient
data, my theory is that Woodrow Wilson may
prove the biggest man in the world. The inevitable
comparison with Lincoln is constantly being made,
and up to now it has not been favorable to Wilson ;
but the great quiet speech in which this President
introduced the war has largely altered things. His
clear grasp of the position, his moderation, his
downright assertion of facts, and the whole-hog sug-
gestion of seeing the turmoil through to a better
and more complete finish than any suggested by
European statesmen —all these things tend to lift
him far out of the ruck and to proclaim him an
ideal leader for a roused democracy. All the things
that up to the moment of his far-reaching decision
were urged against him either in denunciation or in
mockery were, after all, only echoes of the things
that were urged against Lincoln in those early days
when his caution and patience were mistaken for
indecision and weakness. True, Lincoln had to
face the grim horror of civil war and take tremend-
ous chances against the zealous and united South;
but Wilson, as against all that, has to face the
unknown temper and spirit of the composite nation
which has come into existence since Lincoln went
to his fathers. To face the certainty of civil war
was pretty nerve-straining; to face foreign war with
civil war in half a dozen modern and poisonous
shapes skulking in the rear of the army is far
worse. Actually, Of course, there may be no
civil war. The passionate flame of national pur-
pose may sweep up even the latest immigrants and
weld the whole agglomeration of 30 or more races
into one indivisible sword striking for righteous-
ness; but, if it does so, a tremendous lot of the credit
of thfe vast achievement will be due to the intense
lover of peace who in the hour of crisis dared all
for the sake of truth. There is Pilgrim blood in
Woodrow’s veins and every action shows it. What
he has done up to the present Oliver Cromwell in
like circumstances might have done. What he may
yet do may outshine all that Oliver ever did; and
Australians may yet thank whatever gods there be
that Woodrow’s country has a long window looking
out on the Pacific.
♦
Waste of Public Funds and the Way to
Stop It.
It seems about time that an effort was made
to discover the individual who is surrep-
titiously praying, “Give us this day our
daily muddle.” The answer to his inter-
cession is so copious that, unless interrupted,
this misguided citizen will turn Australia
into a land abounding with broken cash-
boxes and empty purses. Of revelations of
muddle there is no end. When they are not
produced in Parliament they are made
available by Royal Commissions. When
there are no Royal Commissions the evi-
dence in criminal trials provides something
to go on with, pending the arrival of a re-
port from an Auditor-General or a foreman
of works or someone. It is now difficult to
recall a single occasion when inquiry into
something controlled by a politician failed
to discover a collection of chaos. No trust
or combine could possibly loot the people in
the wholesale way they are being plundered
to-day by incompetent administrators and
loafing officials. The story about Canberra
unfolded by Wilfrid Blacket, the Com-
missioner appointed to turn over that heap
of untidiness, is the latest and not the least
deplorable—a tale of the same old shirk,
dodge, waste and probably worse; of the
same old muddle, confusion and downright
incapacity to grasp even the elements of
responsibility. But what is the good of tell-
ing the public these things? If the citizen
in his private capacity owned a business,
and if the manager whom he put in charge
was proved guilty of everything that un-
fitted him for the job, there would be no
question whatever about the result. That
manager would most likely be sacked at
once; certainly he would not be reappointed.
But a hundred reports may be made concern-
ing waste and misuse of public money, and
the man directly responsible for it all suffers
not at all. At the next general election he is
hitched up in the party team, and goes
through as though nothing whatever had
happened. There will be no improvement til!
this practice is entirely changed. When the
disclosure of such things as happened at
Canberra means the certain dismissal of the
responsible Minister, such things will not
happen again. When the report of a Judge
that there has been “gross mismanagement
and accountancy chaos” in the Defence De-
partment is followed by the dismissal of the
Defence Minister from Parliament. as. a
person who has been proved an expensive
incapable, gross mismanaeement and account-
ancy chaos will stop short in that depart-
ment. But until the public does take up
that position its means will be mercilessly
squandered.
Cornin’ Home.
“Ojo” after a look-round :
I have been living some years in foreign countries
and, coming home, can now see the old place in
proper perspective.
The inhabitants are mostly a conservative tribe.
As a mining man I notice that our miners still
use the old-fashioned, smelly, smoky, greasy oil-
larnps. Even the natives in most South American
mines now carry small acetylene lamps; but such
things are looked on askance by the conservative
mi ners here as being too complicated! It was
difficult to get the rock-drill men I’ve been lately
handling to try baby-drills mounted on a “telescope - ’
—they wanted to stick to the heavy column-mounted
drill for all purposes. They want to work in the
same way (only not so hard) as gTandfather did,
and get three times as much for it.
Look at the houses: most of them are no better
than shanties. How many country homes have bath-
rooms? I've given up looking. Practically none of
the shacks are adapted to a warm climate. In this
mining township the houses are weatherboard huts,
iron-roofed, hot in summer and cold in winter. And,
oh, the curse of living in sheds where every whisper
carries all over the building ! Why, one of the first con-
siderations of civilisation is privacy. The great
bulk of the people are too conservative to try sun-
baked brick houses, with double roofs. Fly-netting
is practically unknown; and flies and mosquitoes are
here such a pest that they make life almost unbear-
able. Then I see no household conveniences for the
missus or anyone else in the average “comfortable”
house. (I am not speaking of the cities at present.)
The Yankees look for such things as hot and cold
water laid on to all the rooms, with direct outlet
to the drains; properly furnished kitchens, with dish-
washers, drying racks, cupboards and tables on
wheels so that, when preparing a meal the cook can
draw the cupboard up to the table and have all the
pots and ingredients right alongside her. How
simple it is! But it is only the hundredth Aus-
tralian home that has such ABO fittings as
ice-cliests, vacuum-cleaners and clothes-washing
machines. This neglect of the welfare and comfort of
women is further support of my argument that we
are only partly civilised.
In this dry territory, where there may be no rain-
fall for months, most country houses are content'
with water-storage capacity of about 100 gallons
per person—all. kept in galvanised-iron tanks in
the full glare of the sun. Underground tanks of
sufficient capacity are a rarity. I have one cottage
in my mind’6 eye. The couple who own and occupy
it spent £l2 recently on wall-paper; but they
wouldn’t spend Is. on a bath, or fly-netting on doors
and windows. I have watched them at meals, each
with one hand waving over the food all the time, to
keep flies off, but proudly content because the house
looks respectable. And their only tank holds 150
gallons.
Lastly, consider the dress and food. More than
half the year is summer; but because our northern
ancestors wore heavy suits we must do likewise.
And we work right through the dead heat of a
summer mid-day instead of using the cool morning
and evening. S. American ideas of food, too, seem
preferable. There they consider fruit' a necessity
for breakfast. Here, the sort of meals suitable for
England are served all through the hot weather.
And I am frequently asked if South America is
not very far behind the times!
Home Rule on the Bargain Counter.
Now that all England is whooping over the
United States’ entrance into the war, Presi-
dent Wilson has a fine opportunity to
remark in soothing tones that his path in his
own country would be a lot easier if Britain
handed Ireland fairly and without shuffle
the Home Rule which is now on the statute
books. The English Tory would under-
stand an appeal like that. Hitherto he has
been unwilling to allow Ireland to govern
herself, for no better reason than that he
could see no advantage to himself in letting
her do so. That Irish affairs held up British
legislation was all to the good. The less
legislation there was the better the Tory
liked it. But now, when the support of
the U.S.A. to the Allied arms means so
much, the bargain of Home Rule in return
for American-Irish support should appeal to
the most crusted persons of all. To give
away Home Rule for m thing was bad poli-
tics to the good Tory; and Ireland seemed
too poor in Tory eyes to give anything in
return. Even in the present war Irish sup-
port was a comparatively small matter:
many of the people would enlist voluntarily,
anyway, and the country’s contributions to
the war loans must be almost negligible.
But Irish-Ameriea is a different proposition.
It stands for wealth, influence, power and
numbers; and to buy it by smothering Car-
son and his propaganda of loyal rebellion
looks an excellent bargain. Carson prob-
ably is now, as he always has been, in the
Tories’ pocket. The whole Ulster movement
was never more than an attempt on the part
of the old, greedy, effete things in England to
maintain their grip by causing political divi-
sion. A few religious bigots in Down and
Antrim took it seriously; but if Carson
and the leaders accepted Home Rule, the
Orange drum would very soon turn to play-
ing Irish national tunes. If. then. Presi-
dent Wilson could send Britain a Note on
the question—a Note written in the old
friendly way—there might be something
doing which would promote American har-
mony and make Ireland the most loyal
country in the whole British dominions.
Wiiat a fine contempt kings and queens
must have for the sycophant press! Only
in December London Tatler printed a
photo, of the Czarevitch “in the uniform of
a Russian private,” with this description:
“Heir already to a vast Empire, to be
added to as a result of this war, he is also
heir to the affections of an enlightened and
progressive people, amongst whom his
father is idolised.” It can be said with
calm confidence that no king or queen is
any longer “idolised” by the people. At
the most “the people” say good-naturedly:
“Your Majesty, you are a humorous anom-
aly ; yet in practice you probably answer
pretty well.” But the monarchy only
answers pretty well so long as it helps to
keep its country out of war. Once, as in
the case of Germany, a king, looking for
personal aggrandisement, pushes war on,
or makes peace more difficult, then the
monarchy ceases to be a humorous anomaly
and becomes an intolerable menace.
George Crowley, managing director of the
City Mutual Life Office, tried to wake up
his society's policy-holders at their annual
meeting the other day with this good stuff: —
I am not talking- to children. Do any of yon
think that this boom prosperity of the hast couple
of years is going to last? How can it? We are
not living on our income. We are spending our
capital, and spending it lavishly and extravagantly
at that.
Worse, we are not onl.v spending our capital. We
are mortgaging and second-mortgaging and "tacking-”
—you all know what that is—our resources, and in
the flush anti riot of our money-fever fresh from the
lenders we are indulging in wild extravagance in the
middle of the greatest war in history, when the
most rigid economy is absolutely imperative.
You will think 1 am romancing when I tell you—no
doubt most of you know it as well as I, although
-ome doubtless have not given it a thought—
that for the current financial year the Commonwealth
Government has contracted to spend in ordinary
outgoings altogether apart from its war expenditure
nearly five millions sterling in excess of what was
spent for the previous 12 months.
And the figures for that year were appalling enough
to any well-wisher of Australia.
The thing is almost unbelievable. It should be
the other way about. And so should our State
expenditure, which is yearly soaring higher and
higher.
From one cause or another there seems to be
an all-round financial myopia. Possibly “party
necessity” is the wretched plea. Most of them seem
to be for party and scarce any for the State.
How long think you is this borrowing business
going to last, and when it stops—what then?
Surely, what is true of the individual —and all of
us in financial circles have had hundreds of pitiful
examples of spendthrift legatees—must be equally
true of the State or Commonwealth.
What is the use of shutting our eyes to it?
I am net by any means a pessimist. I recognise
that in the staple industries of Australia, in our
wheat, our wool, our meat, our butter, our minerals,
we shall later on be a big factor in the world’s
supply.
But I do foresee this, that unless we put out-
house in order and prepare for the inevitable reac-
tion which must ensue when the circulation of these
tens of millions now being lavished here, there, and
everywhere ceases, we shall have to go through a
period of depression compared with which the dark-
davs of the early ’nineties —and who that lived
through them like we did can ever forget?—will
have been only a circumstance.
S. M. Herald knocked off the other morning
from its job of telling everybody that the
duty of it patriot is to think only of
winning the war —“which mast engage all
our thoughts and control our every act, indi-
vidually and collectively.” It solemnly
announced, instead, that “the Nationalist,
ticket for the Senate is the key to the
whole position. Let everybody keep Messrs.
Millen, Fratten and Josiah Thomas
constantly in mind and organise for their
return with solid majorities.” So it now
transpires that, while the world is in flames,
the British armies locked in a sanguinary
struggle with the legions of Vox llinden-
burg, Hughes capering about the land-
scape, and Cocky begging for 2d. more or
his wheat, the Australian citizen must close
his mind to all these things and think only
of Millen. Pratten and Josiaii the Bed
Rag Socialist. He must keep them con-
stantly in his mind. Lest they escape
from mental custody he must acquire the
habit of hourly repeating to himself
“Millen, Pratten and Josiah.” This
trinity must inspire his waking hours, color
his dreams. Like the formula of “Faith,
Hope and Charity,” it must be his comfort,
and his guiding star; and as the revolu-
tionists of France were inspired to mighty
deeds by “Liberty, Fraternity, Equality,” so
“Millen, Pratten and .Josiah” must flame
on the banners of Australian democracy.
The only objection The Bulletin has to
offer is that it may lead to confughesion.
Instead of a formula for winning the war
the public may think it has got hold of a tip
for the 14.2 handicap at the ponies.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
“Globe” (from a “wireless” cabin) : To-
day’s weather forecast by wireless from the
Government meteorologist: “Stormy off
N.W. coast of W.A. Cyclone centred to
N.W. of New Caledonia, moving S.E.” Very
interesting news for the navigating officers
on this ship, which is in the Bight nearing
Albany and plugging through a sudden squall
that doesn’t exist officially. Yesterday’s
forecast: “Squally S.E. winds on Queens-
land coast; gales between Cooktown and
Moresby.” Day before: “No data from
Queensland and N.W. Coast: otherwise
smooth to moderate.” “No data” when
there are wireless stations around Australia
in constant communication! What a confes-
sion to make! The South African meteor-
ologists send different messages to ships on
different parts of their coast, and if our
officers would do the same they would be of
some real value to shipping and have the
respect of the bridge. As things are. we get
more information about the weather out of
our home letters.
- .... , -
“Copabella” : Is there a science of price-
fixing. or any text-books whence one may
gain an insight into the mysterious thing ?
We of the trade have hardly recovered from
the wonder of imported patent groats being
allowed a profit margin of about 30 per cent,
over the miserable Australian article, when
the price-fixers transfix us with a decision on
leather. For crop leather (the basis of the
cheaper working-man’s boot) the price fixed
is Is. od. per lb.; for box-hide (the covering
more generally used for the clothing of the
hoof of the silvertail and the union secre-
tary), Is. 31d. per super foot. These are
supposed to have been the ruling rates in
December, 1916, from which point seem-
ingly is to be dated the beginning of the
profiteer’s nefarious work. But, as a mat-
ter of fact, the December rate was far below
this, and even now, despite the profiteer,
the manufacturers’ rate has not climbed to
the price-fixers’. Yet these strivers for the
welfare of the worker expect to bring down
the price of boots! One wonders just to
whom the fixers go to have their legs pulled.
Personally, I wouldn’t mind their legs
being pulled if the further result wasn’t the
plundering of the public.
«
“Will Andy”: “.Jacko” (B. 15/3/T7)
suggests that the repatriation efforts be
directed toward placing Billjim on wheal
land; but the repatriators should be sol-
emnly warned not to play any mean confi-
dence tricks on decent veterans who haven’t
sufficient experience of the land to keep
them out of hopeless enterprises. Four miles
Anzac Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A soft blue silence broods on Anzac Bay.
Even the little waves
Have half-forgotten that they once were red.
Upon the conquered crags
Triumphantly the wild flowers raise their
flags,
The only victors, they !
The grass is taking to her all the graves;
And, dreamless, lie the hosts of lonely dead.
For they to be forgotten are content.
They in their triumph fell
In that first charge up bristling cliff and
spur;
They, fortunately slain,
Know not that all their ardor was in vain.
Their lives in failure spent.
So with them in their silence all is we 11....
And yet sometimes within their sleep they
stir.
For every year there comes a wondrous day
When to these spirits lone
Reaches a strange warmth, like a living
breath —
A sudden perfume blent
Of manuka and eucalyptus scent
From gullies far away,
And wafted wattle on a warm wind blown;
And they awake, dissatisfied with Death !
For on this day Australia reaches hands
To hands we still can take;
Our love and longing throb across the calm
That listens always there;
Our memories are perfume on the air;
And in those alien lands.
Remembering the name of Spring, they
wake:
Australia is about them like a balm !
Our thoughts upon this day with their
thoughts blend ;
We mingle memories;
Our griefs go wistfully about the beach,
Seeking in tender pride
Some little grave where all our hopes had
died,
A world come to its end !
But no, this day, across the sundering seas,
Surely our love must through their silence
reach ?
And they remember then that they are dead
And all for which they died.
They know we hold in memory undefiled
And from all sadness freed.
They ask our love, they do not pity need
For blood so proudly shed.
Remembrance, but no tears! And, satisfied.
Our dead at last with Death are reconciled.
On this most sacred day of all our days
They want no recompense
But just a scent of wattle, warm as wine !
Onr grief they do not crave;
Pierce not with sobs the stillness of their
grave,
Nor boastful shoutings raise,
But with our loyal silence reverence
The sacredness of that deserted shrine!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


[For any unsigned Plain English and other para-
graphs which require a signature under the Electoral
Act, S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.]
Important to N. S. Wales Farmers!
The N. S. WALES WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION ACT
COMES INTO OPERATION ON JULY 1 OF THIS YEAR.
On and after that date the employer of laoor is legally liable to provide compensation to any employee injured in his service.
The only satisfactory method of covering this risk is by insuring with a reputable company.
Which is the best co. for the farmer?
Limited
Warmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustraIia
THE Farmers* Insurance Co.
A co-operative company owned by the farmer and controlled entirely in his interests.
A company in which, the share-holding policy-holder secures the profits created by his business.
Write early for
full particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches in QUEENSLAND
VICTORIA & S AUSTRALIA
south of Quandary (N.S.W.) 3000 acres
have been surveyed on an ironbark ridge,
heavily clad with green timber. Experienced
men say that to clear and fence a 500-acre
block would run to something like £3OOO.
And then the soil, which is mostly gravel,
wouldn’t grow a paddy melon! Ten miles
further west, near Ariah Park, 4000 acres
of a similar gravel-pit have been earmarked
for heroes. And still further west, near
Mirrool, 2000 acres of green pine have been
marked out for Billjim to clear. In fact,
all along the line from Temora to Barellan
land which has been rejected by hard-headed
farmers is being portioned out for our
returned warriors. Is this a fair deal?
♦
The Great International Bash.
At Verdun the Frenchman proved to the
German that an offensive was more costly
than a defence. John Bull had several
times proved it to the German farther north,
and the German had himself presented John
with conclusive arguments to the same
effect. Wherefore it sometimes looked as if
the war was going to settle down as a per-
manent institution, until it finally petered
out with a stalemate. But this seems less pro-
bable at the present moment than it ever did
before; for what is going on in the vicinity
of Hindenbukg’s latest known address sug-
gests that at last the Allies have mastered
the problem of the trench and the barbed
wire, and have devised methods of attack
which make defensive operations as deadly
now as offensive movements were in the
early stages of the disturbance. If the
wonder has been wrought and this is actu-
ally the case—and it seems to be—then the
Hindenburg line is certainly going bung.
Pending this joyous calamity, however, it
does no harm to remember that the German
divisions are handled with great intelligence
and skill, and that something catastrophic
must occur before victory is certain. That
the more recent successes on the Western
Front only require a limited extension in
order to bring a catastrophe into the picture is
clear. To that extent, then, the situation there-
abouts is infinitely more cheerful than it has
been at any time since the war began. But
while the world is hearing of the army’s
achievements it is not being told much about
the submarine. If Britain’s struggle to cope
with that unpleasantness is reasonably suc-
cessful, the last hope of the Prussian will
have vanished. Should the submarine suc-
ceed in its job, the German will certainly
save his bacon. It will not secure him a
win, but it will manage a tie for him. llow
the fight is going we do not know. There is
much mystery on the subject and many indica-
tions that the food problem in England is very
serious. For instance, the American scheme
for the construction of a few thousand
wooden vessels and the exhortations of the
Food Economy Department are abrupt
reminders that the submarine is doing things
more frequently than it would be allowed
to do if Britannia ruled the waves and the
wetness underneath. Shipping, it must be
remembered, is vital, not only for the trans-
port of food but also for maintenance of
the armies in Mesopotamia and at Salonica
—a point which we are liable to overlook.
As for the rest, we will know more about
what is happening in Russia when we know
what occurs to the Russian armies after the
mud hardens. This will be much more illu-
minating than yarns about the fervor of
the Russian for democratic institutions.
Meanwhile the German is going about his
business with great attention to detail. The
latest story, allegedly taken from a German
newspaper, is about an establishment where
defunct Hun is reduced to lubricating oil
and nourishment for pig. It is either a
horrible joke _ perpetrated for the entertain-
ment of outsiders or evidence of the nation
being mighty close to the last gasp. In
either case it makes the Ilun out a choice
sample of barbarian.
Vida Pankhurst Goldstein is the Peace
candidate for the Senate in Vic. ; and to the
objection that Vida was queering the pitch
of the Labor candidates the chairman, the
Rev. F. Sinclaire, exclaims: “Let Labor and
everything be wrecked! We stand for
Peace!” Also, when there’s a storm at sea,
and the vessel is likely to founder, the logi-
cal Sinclaire cries: “Overboard with boats
and lifebelts! I stand for calm !” And when
it rains Sinclaire throws away his umbrella
and topcoat and says “I stand for fine
weather.” Meantime what he and Vida
stand for is a dangerous species of idiocy.
. Archbish. Mannix, who has spent a lot of
time lately shinning up the political tree
and howling among the top branches, was
handed £lOOO the other day by an admirer,
“as a reward for his fearlessness in speaking
the truth about the war and Catholic loy-
alty.” With this money the Archspeakup
proposes to establish scholarships at the
new R.C. college now being built in Mel-
bourne Uni. grounds.
Even though he can’t fight, anybody with
seventeen-and-six can help to win the war.
He (or she) needn't go out and bark at a
public meeting: he (or she) can do some-
thing much more practical—take the 17s Gd.
to a post office and lend it to Australia to
help pay for the lighting. In three years
from the date of deposit Australia will pay
back £l. The document issued in exchange
lor the money is called a War Savings Cer-
tificate. They are of denominations up to
£looo—a deposit of £875 will be worth
£lOOO at the end of the three years. If the
depositor should want the money before the
three years are up he will be able to get it:
either he can sell the certificate or in certain
cases the Treasury will refund the money
with 3 per cent, interest added.
The completeness of the revolution in
Russia makes the Censorship look more
stupid than ever. Nearly a year ago word
came through that Russia was in the throes
of revolution. Evid ntlv that statement
slipped past when the Censor wasn’t look-
ing. for not another word was published
here or in England on the subject, though
German papers were full of it. The next
the people of Australia were allowed to
know was that the actual revolution was all
over and Russia was a republic. Obviously
our own national position was gravely
affected by the situation in Russia ; for in-
stance, how was it possible to properly con-
sider whether universal service was neces-
sary without knowing what the position was
in Russia? Either the conscription issue
should never have been put to the people of
Australia or the people should have had all
the facts on which to come to a judgment—
there being herein no suggestion that there
was any suppression of facts by the Censor-
ship in Australia.
The blind Argus has been busy explain-
ing to the Phewsion Government that
motor-cars are not a luxury to be excluded,
but a necessity to be admitted freely. In
other words. Australia must have motor-
cars, wherefore it should arrange matters
so that it should never be able to get them
on the premises, but should always have to
send abroad for them. On the same prin-
ciple, a doctor, to whom a motor-car is a
necessity, should never have one in the back-
yard. He should always be at liberty to get
one from a garage in the next town. That
is the Argus’s Freetrade “principles” in
four lines.
“The Old Soldier” :
Sydney Daily Telegraph says that the Anzacs’
stay in Egypt has given them a stock of “Aus-
tralianised Egyptian words.” As a matter of fact,
ail the examples quoted are Arabic, the language
commonly spoken by the people of Egypt. Even the
Oopts or descendants of the Ancient Egyptians, who
still use their own language for some purposes,
transact their business in Arabic. “Bukshee,” listed
by the D.T., ought to be “buksheesh,” a gift. Then
there is what the paper calls “mafeesh,” and ex-
plains that it “occupies the same place with us
as finee (French flni, finished).” The word literally
means “no good,” and it can be heard any day in
the streets of Cairo. Mafish (the correct phonetic
spelling) is the first native word a white man will
learn in Egypt. The old soldier’s word “Blighty”
means any foreign country. It is pure Arabic.
George Robertson and Co. haven’t the
least intention of retiring from the retail
book trade. The firm is looking for the
blood of “The Oldest Inhabitant” (B.
5/4/’l7) who made the statement, which is
contradicted herewith. The fact is that
Robertson’s are closing the retail side of the
branch business in Sydney, but will carry
on the wholesale as of old. The Melbourne
business is undergoing no change whatever.
The big shop stands where it did and invites
custom in the same old way. George Rob-
ertson started in Melbourne when the city
was very young, and, although the location
of the shop has changed, Melbourne was, is,
and ever will be the headquarters of the
business.
The Friendly Societies and the doctors
have their own little war in the Speck. The
local branch of the B.M.A. fired the first
shot by giving notice that after January 1,
1917, they would expect the fees for male
lodge-members to go up from 15s. to £1
per year, and for females from 10s. to 15s.
The Societies say that they can’t afford it,
and are looking round to see if they can get
their doctors on a fixed-salary basis. They
moan that keeping up the subscriptions of
members at the Front is a heavy strain on
them, that the price of drug has gone up
in some cases as much as 2000 per cent,
and that, to keep their dispensaries financial
at all, they have had to raise the charge
from Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. a quarter and may
have to raise it again. The doctors for their
part say in effect that their tripe and
onions are dearer, like everybody else’s. and
if they must starve they will starve kick-
ing. They will probably ask for a wages
board before it is all over; and when all is
said and done they couldn’t do anything
much more sensible.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The House that Jack Built”
Palace “Turn to the Right”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Waddingtox’s Grand . . “The Wonderland of N.E.”
Garden The Red Dandies
White City Various Shows
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Canary Cottage”
Royal “The Marriage of Kitty”
Princess’s “The Bunyip”
King’s “Very Good Eddie”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Lr.\i: .V Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic “Somewhere in France”
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
The paint is still fresh on “The House
that Jack Built," at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney, and the good-natured country folk have
to crowd round the box-plan when looking
for seats on which to plant bine pencil
crosses.
“Turn to the Right,” the second Tait
show, goes up like a new street sign at Syd-
ney Palace on Saturday.
The light lunch (vegetarian) served at
Sydney Criterion in four brief courses of
corn-meal mush, with long intervals for
digestion, is still attracting a rush of female
patrons.
At the Sydney Opera House Miss Fredeto.
Watts is still being married at midnight to
Allan Wilkie with a speed that casts a doubt
upon the proceedings, and probably accounts
tor the villain’s persistence in pursuing the
lady afterwards. The only romantic im-
possibility left out of “The Story of the
Rosary” is hereby suggested. Why shouldn’t
the rosary worn by the hero save his life, by
deflecting the bullet, or rapier, or machine-
gun, or bomb, or eight-inch shell, or what-
ever it was the enemy fought with? And
of course it ought to interpose between
him and the lash that scarred his
body when the hero labored in “the mines.”
The prayer-book, pack of cards, best girl’s
photo and mother’s picture-postcard have
had a long-enough innings.
“THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT,”
AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Dame Arthur Stigant, leads an enthusiastic
panto, quartette.
“The Pink Lady” has almost faded out at
Sydney Royal. The lights will be turned
down finally after Friday’s performance.
Gwen Lewis, the cheerful girl whose job
is songs-at-the-piano, has come to Sydney
Tivoli to cover part of the bill that is not
occupied by the Follies. Fred Bluett, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Boy Scouts, is
another artist on the same job. Marie King
Scott and Clement Dickens May also assist.
The Follies are rattling along without
encores, and if any visitor gets what the
daily paper calls “food for thought” out of
their thistledown and cream-puff programme,
it isn’t the fault of principals or chorus.
Speaking metaphorically, the hungry brain
comes away with an empty nosebag.
Is there a musician left in Sydney who
has not yet heard Wirths’ musical elephant
play the mouth-organ? Has Melba heard it?
She should. It would save her from ever
saying that Sydney is being musically starved
like Melbourne was. Yet this paper feels
that something more ought to be done.
Verbrugghen, for instance, might discourse
about tempo in the front row, while the
biggest musician on earth performs.
To-night will go down in history as the
date of the last fancy-dress carnival this
season at the White City (Sydney). Thus
is the philosopher vindicated who wrote
upon bis tablets, “All that is mirthly passeth
away." The big park will be closed up next
week.
The Smart Set packed its songandance on
Saturday and left Sydney's Garden Theatre.
As this journal precipitates itself through
the mangle the Red Dandies are (d.v. ) tun-
ing up at the house for a reappearance after
an absence of some months.
Films in Sydney this week:
Crystal Palace: Enid Bennett’s successful debut
as a film star in “The Little Brother”; and very
fetching the Australian girl looks.
Hoyt’s: “In the Diplomatic Service,” in which
ex-matinee idol Francis X. Bushman mixes love and
politics and makes the usual hash.
Lyceum : Wilfred Lucas as the hero of “Jim
Bludso” in Mississippi flood and fire; and Fairbanks
in a Sherlock Holmes travesty, “Mystery of the
Leaping Fish.”
The graceful humor of the little comedy
and the well-advertised name of the little
woman who stars in it, have sufficed to
make “The Marriage of Kitty” go big at
Melbourne Iloyal. The story is encouraging
to the girls, anyhow. Kitty is stated to be
30 when she comes to London from a dull
provincial town, with only £97 Bs. in
her handbag, to make her fortune by mar-
riage. She achieves a formal union and a
comfortable settlement in about the quickest
time on record, after which the only obstacle
between herself and complete matrimony
with her £16,000-a-year husband is a
Peruvian widow who carries more than
weight for age. The widow suffers from ner-
vous wrathfulness, occasional rheumatism
and a chronic craving to meet the Pope,
whereas Kitty is a healthy creature of irre-
ligious disposition, calculated to make any
weak-minded johnnie happy. A contest be-
tween two such designing females for posses-
sion of ; susceptible baronet could only end
one way. Besides, Kitty starts with a
marriage certif. in hand. The chief flaw in
the present performance, from a cold critic’s
standpoint, is the fact that the short, plump
spinster appears to be less youthful than
the tall, slim widow. One misses the effect
of the comedy as it was when Rose Mus-
grove and Miss Hamer were contrasted at
the Princess’s a dozen years ago. Kitty was
then said to be 28, but she didn’t look it.
And her wit was less obtrusive than the
smartness of this present Kitty. In short.
Rose Musgrove realised the part without
making it forceful, while Marie Tempest gives
a performance of her forceful self in accord-
ance, more or less, with the character. It
is not a heroinic character, all said and done.
Nor is Belsize. Bart., anything more than
a socially-cultured ass who ties himself to
women’s apron-strings, or lets himself be
tied. Graham Browne is convincingly natu-
but not less unlovable than the neurotic
widow or the lawyer who conspires to marry
hmi to her. Gwen Burroughs has tempered
the crudities of her widow impersonation
since the first night. But if the whole per-
formance were an all-round triumph of
mummery the honors would still remain with
the dramatist who devised an amusingly
human comedy minus heart and soul.
“Canary Cottage” continues to fill a want
at Melbourne Majesty’s. The present writer,
after two or three inspections of the ram-
pageous show, is still in doubt as to who
pays the rent of the strange domicile where
Dorothy Brunton risks her reputation; but
he supposes that somebody lives there and
leads the simple life when the Chorus and
Ballet are not. performing on the spacious
first-floor landing. Viewing the Cottage
from the outside no one would guess it to
be big enough to hold a public meeting.
** * *
Many worse things have happened at Mel-
bourne Princess’s than the “Bunyip” panto,
at popular prices. It starts with a good
Australian idea, which is something consid-
erable in its favor, and although the idea
soon gets torn to pieces and the alleged
panto is often a tedious variety business
relieved by pale memories of “On Our Selec-
tion.” the fact remains that one good Aus-
tralian idea is quite a lot to go on with,
where pantomime is concerned. If the Bun-
yip and Bush Gnome interest were developed
and dwelt upon and the dreary talk of the
she-Dame and the futile funny men were
greatly reduced, the effect would be pounds
better. Nor is a she-Dame a reasonable inno-
vation whilst the principal Boy remains a
girl as of old. Under the present arrange-
ment the balance of sex seems more upset
than ever. Still “The Bunyip” has attrac-
tive points apart from its title and its open-
ing sentiment. The Manchurians are a really
good turn, and the Cavannas and the Bush


xcv
HENKES’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonlo.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
cxv
■gmmms
m
. ~5;
I
aw
Mv \ k
SsitiS
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below statins the Class of Land in which yon
are interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
FOR WARMTH IN WINTER
A CEYLON FLANNEL SHIRT
Soft in texture, warm, easy-fitting-, comfortable for day and night
wear, and fully protective for the body during the coldest weather.
Such is the Peapes Ceylon Flannel Shirt, and it is noteworthy
that, despite the scarcity of woollen fabrics, the price does not
involve heavy outlay. The garment is of quality that will ensure
long service.
White, Grey or Blue Flannel, with neat stripes. Band
cuffs to button
12/6
We Pay Postage.
Please state linen-collar size.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
l\>n’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE. STREET SYDNEY.
■lfi!
W/ltmM
ml
mi
most
m
Fire help to explain why this artless home-
made panto, is being rushed at the prices.
Ada Reeve and co., so long expected, will
be at Melbourne Tivoli next Saturday. Some
of the members of the co. are persons of
minor distinction in the world of vaudeville,
and the advt. seems justified in taking it
for granted that the coming change of bill
will revive the lately-faded glories of the
House that ’Arry built.
At Melbourne King’s the present co. will
Turn to the Right and go straight away after
to-night (Thursday). One night’s interval
will lend impressement, in a French way of
writing, to the arrival of “Very Good
Eddie” on Saturday. Favorable accounts
of the young man have preceded him from
Sydney, and the first audience will assume
the character of a family gathering when
Lupino and Higginson return from their
long absence. Needless to state that “Eddie”
is musical comedy.
“Extravagance,” described as a super-film,
is displaying the super-finery of Olga
Petrova at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week.
Olga appears as the glad daughter of a
monumental plunger and helps the old dis-
aster into the clutches of a hanker, who is
wanting alike in purity, probity and polish.
Jn the circumstances which follow the hero-
ine is security for a mortgage arranged
between the banker and her disgraceful old
father, and, of course, she is about to be
foreclosed when Adonis blows in with a sack
of money and saves the film-star from inglori-
ous eclipse. Wherever possible, the roles
are dressed regardless of expense.
Those who enjoyed “Chicken Casey” and
“The Sins Ye I)o” at the Melbourne Majes-
tic last week can get a second helping at the
Britannia, Bourke-street, this week. The
Britannia is also featuring “Love’s Get
Away,” a sentimental cyclone with the
diverting Fay Tincher in the middle of the
disturbance. At the Melba, the Fox story,
“The Mediator,” is the passing fancy.
Aggressive pacifism is the theme of the film,
and George Walsh, who practises this prin-
ciple in the roughest company, leads a life
of extreme inquietude. He is a well-meaning
mixture of Woodrow Wilson and Roosevelt
—with enough of the Roosevelt strain to
give Melba supporters a lively half-hour.
Italian opera, with a change every even-
ing—of plays, and generally of players—is
doing great business at Adelaide Royal.
Cappelli’s tenor was the first thing to strike
the public, but others of both sexes have
levelled up as they got their respective
chances. Meanwhile, a brisk newspaper dis-
cussion lias been provoked as to the artistic
value, and the right to survive, of Donizetti
and other old-time composers. At the
King’s, “Peg o’ My Heart” has had to extend
her original three-weeks’ season, which
means an Adelaide record for any play
without music. It is the clean, sentimental
show that wins in the long run. From the
Tivoli, Sydney James. Madeline Rossiter
and the other clever Strollers are moving
on to Brisbane ; to preserve the balance the
Queen’s has got busy with a team of
“THE BUNYIP,” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Nat Phillips as
Stiffy the “cop.”
Roy Rene as Mo
Lazarus.
Dandies, headed by Joseph Brennan. The
magical balancing of Tsuda has been the
most striking thing at the Majestic, where
Le Blanc and Mack have more ginger in
their personal efforts than had the principals
of the very similar extravaganza crowd that
preceded them at this house. Winsloe
Hall’s splendid Adelaide Orchestra has given
the first of a long series of concerts planned
for the winter, As for the picture houses,
they “feature” various more or less dashing
heroes and charming heroines; but the de-
tailed story of the big steeplechase at Oak-
bank on Easter Monday is easily the most
generally attractive item of the lot.
Dead at Glenelg (S.A.) Edward All-
church, sergeant of police, at 88. His chief
claim to fame was that, coming from Eng-
land with police experience half a century
ago, he was sent to Adelaide’s seaside suburb
as trooper, and stayed there the rest of his
]if e —though at 70 he retired from active police
work. He had seen the place grow from a
village to a large town. On the other hand,
there was far more work on the water-side
in Allchurch’s young days. Glenelg was then
the P. and O. port of call, and both the
Duke of Edinburgh and King George (as a
boy) made it their landing-place for S. Aus.
“THE CUNY IP,”
AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Daisy Merritt as
the Dame.
This from an English paper on the Asquith
Government: —
Party has done good things in the past and will
do good things in the future; yet party will not win
this war as long as abolition of party is no union,
but only a phase of stifled strife spread among'
numerous committees and Ministers, with an im-
potent and discredited House of Commons looking
on.
It might have been written in condemnation
of our own Phewsion Government. The
party that Hughes formerly worked with did
good things and will do more in the future,
whereas the Phewsion simply stands for stifled
strife between renegade Ministers who still
profess to be clinging to certain principles
and other Ministers who have always con-
demned them. The Liberals have not even
arranged a patriotic truce with the enemy
at home. They have merely taken over some
deserters and put them in command of their
own forces. And that’s how Billjim Adams
is going to win the Battle of Whatermess!
This is the wrong age for the banqueter
who cannot find a patriotic excuse for over-
eating. Last week Dick Meagher, Gaud
Mayor of Sydney—and M.L.C. next week,
most likely—presided at a meeting of stout
citizens at which it was unanimously re-
solved to eat the well-fed Holman off the
premises on his way to London. Some
callous woman clipped the report of the
meeting, pasted it beside a wretched police-
court story of the suing of a soldier’s strug-
gling wife for back-rent, and fired it in to a
paper which then had the bad taste to print
the sneer. Of course it is very unfortunate
that the woman has four children to keep on
£2 Bs. a week, out of which the landlord
takes £l. But why should it be flung in a
man’s soup, sir!
Every State in Australia is now repre-
sented by at least one Victoria Cross gained
in the present war. The names of the first
representatives to win the honor are as
follows: —.
Victoria (also the first V.C. winner in the
A.1.F.): Lieutenant Albert Jacka, 14th Battalion,
at 22, in Gallipoli.
N. S. Wales: Private L. Keyzor, Ist (formerly
3rd) Battalion, Gallipoli.
Queensland. —Private John Leak, 9th Battalion,
France.
South Aus.: Lieut. A. S. Blackburn, 10th Bat-
talion, France.
Westralia: Lieut. 11. V. 11. Throssell, 10th Light
Horse.
Tasmania: Captain H. W. Murray, 16th and 13th
Battalions.
.Tacka and Keyzor are still in France; so, it
is believed, is Leak. Blackburn has come
home to Adelaide, his appointment having
terminated on the 10th of this month. Thros-
sell rejoined his regiment in Egypt last
December, after recovering from wounds;
and Murray, who also holds the D.C.M.
and D. 5.0., is probably in hospital some-
where. recovering from gunshot wounds re-
ceived last year.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Peter”: A popular actor-man, who is
emphatically convinced of his own renown,
walked into a Melbourne book-store the
other day and asked for a rather scarce
playlet by a somewhat rare author. The
sales lady had not the precious thing in
stock, and acquainting the great man with
the momentous fact, ventured to inquire:
“Did you intend to do the piece in vaude-
ville, Mr. Bluett?” Mr. Bluett! Appalled
at being mistaken for a mere comic singer,
the celebrity fainted.
Constance Cayley, one of the handsomest
corner-stones of “The House that Jack
Built,” is one of the trimly-built and
smartly-turned-out Buttle sisters whom the
Sydney Block knew so well a few years ago.
The lady’s costumes in the J.C.W. version
of the nursery rhyme show no falling off in
originality of design and color effect.
“P.”: Have just had a chance to read the
late George Rignold’s diary. Interesting
because it tells how he climbed out of his
early worries, but more interesting in its
unconscious revelation of the youthful
mummer’s innate egotism. For instance:—
Though I did something with my part, the other
parts were disgraceful....
Yesterday Tom Taylor read me a five-act blank-
verse piece. I have no part in it. I believe it
will be a failure, though it is well written.
Am happy to say my singing goes well, if not
better, than anybody’s in the opera.
Marie [his wife] had to play the part with a
few hours’ notice. Played it most successfully for
a week, and—damn their eyes!— not a single shil-
ling did she get more than £1 10s.
Makes one suspect that the gag about
George’s adjuration to “Throw the limelight
on me, damn you !” in later Australian days,
wasn’t merely the malicious invention of an
envious fellow-mummer.
“Ancient Prompter”: The English must
chew over everything. Marie Tempest tells
a story which illustrates the national habit.
George Moore dropped her a line, when she
was running her own theatre, to say he had
completed a play. Would she dine at his
house and discuss it? She replied asking
him to lunch at her house. He answered
that he never went to luncheon. She re-
joined that as she was busy at the theatre
every evening she couldn’t dine. So manager
and author came to a deadlock, and the
play was never produced.
“Silas”: Marie Tempest gave the Argus
an enlightening interview the other day.
Reading it, I was edified to find how many
successful playwrights of our generation owe
what eminence they have and what income
they enjoy to the gifted comedienne. Quite
a procession of them had been hapless play-
hawkers, taking their dramas from door to
door, contemptuously disregarded or inso-
lently sooled off the mat, till Miss Tempest
sampled their wares and produced them to
the dramatists’ enormous advantage. George
Moore was the only celebrated author who,
having written a play, would not discommode
himself to meet Miss Tempest with the
object of making a deal; and as a playwright
he has never since been seen or heard of.
But what the Tempest’s revelations reveal
most glaringly is the almost inconceivable
stupidity of theatrical managers as a body.
While professing to know what the people
wanted, they turned away again and again
the clever plays of eminent writers, which
Miss Tempest subsequently produced, scor-
ing a signal triumph in every case. If I
were a theatrical manager in London, I
would make a point of producing no play
that had not been turned down by every
other theatrical manager in London.
“Stargazer”: Marie Tempest’s work in
“The Marriage of Kitty” is quite delightful.
Her comedy is broad and tasty, much too
broad for this particular character. If
Katherine Silverton had been a rather smart
serio-comic in vaudeville before she was per-
suaded to marry for money, Miss Tempest’s
conception of the character would be
perfect; but Katherine was a girl of some
x-efinement, a “lady” almost, and here Rose
Musgrove’s conception and execution were
better than Marie Tempest’s. The former
interpretation of the play made the plot
almost reasonable; the present one abandons
every pretence of persuading the spectators
that the author had any intention but that
of playing an eminently practical joke.
Moved by the spirit of tempestuous Marie,
Sir Reginald Belsize is broadened into a
blithering Johnnie, so elderly that there re-
mains no hope on earth of his ever out-
growing his innate foolishness, which, though
peculiarly amusing to an audience, would be
a maddening thing to live with.
“0.K.”: It is stated as an instance of
Graham Browne’s “instinct for showman-
ship” that when he had produced “The
Honeymoon” for Marie Tempest, he adver-
tised in the London dailies two parallel
columns of flatly contradictory criticisms.
These excited public curiosity and served
to boom the piece. But was that instinct, or
merely the resurrection of an old trick? The
dodge was certainly practised years before
Browne was born. It is, however, effective
only where the play has good stuff in it and
the acting is clever enough to merit con-
troversy. The most conflicting notices of q
cheap melodrama or flimsy farcical comedy
wouldn’t be worth advertising, otherwise
every management would quote The Bul-
letin’s candid opinions for business pur-
poses.
“Podi Singho” on circus and other ele-
phants :
“8.H.” (B. 5/4/’l7) has evidently never seen
elephants at work. Their “handiness” is surpris-
ing - until one realises that it is the outcome of
highly-developed intelligence. I saw Wirths’ special
arrive at a N. S. Wales station early one morning
and, having nothing better to do, watched the outfit
preparing for the show that night. The elephants
not only hauled the trucks to the ground —or pushed
where pulling didn’t happen to suit—but did a
large share of the work of raising the tents. They
hauled on ropes, hoisted up tent-poles and canvas,
pushed here and pulled there, while the
horses just stood around and looked on.
I was rather surprised that Wirths’ elephants
made no use of their jaws for carrying. I
have used Jumbo for all sorts of work in Ceylon,
and there practically all the carrying was done
by mouth. Carrying a roll of cable weighing
SOcwt. was a regular thing. A bar was thrust
through the centre of the drum, and a rope sling
was passed round the ends of the bar. Then the
elephant grasped the slack of this sling between
bis jaws and whisked the load away. I have had
drums of cable placed in position in this manner on
the brink of a precipice nearly 1000 ft. deep, ready
for paying out over the edge, and have never had a
mishap of any sort. The elephants were the property
of various Buddhist temples, and were kept to
take part in religious ceremonials, but were always
available for work for wages between whiles. The
regular rate of pay was five rupees (Os. Bd.) per
day, which included hire of elephant (and food)
and also wages of the Cingalee keeper. The keepers
spoke to the animals in Cingalese, and the elephants
understood simple orders in that language perfectly.
Although making apparently cruel use of a danger-
ous-looking pointed hook, the keepers were generally
very careful of the animals’ welfare, and regarded
the elephant’s daily bath as of great importance.
“Melb”: Widow Vogrich l our Alice Rees
of long ago) is back after many years. She
came as a girl from Stawell (Vic.) and was
musically produced by Argus critic Keiley.
At Nicholson’s music shop she sang the
“Inflammatus” six times in one day to
admirers. This brought her a £2O fee for
singing at Siede’s benefit. Musicians com-
pared her with Di Murska, and there was
a great to-do. Lyster at once offered £2OOO
for her musical education in Italy, but
mother objected. After nine months’ tui-
tion with Lucy Chambers she joined Wil-
liamson’s co., singing in old English operas,
and was the first representative here of
Patience, Josephine in “Pinafore,” Mabel
in “Pirates.” Then she appeared in
Italian opera—“ Norma,” “Lucia, “Ballo in
Maschera,” etc. Vogrich w’as at that time in
Melbourne with Wilhelmj. They played violin
and organ in Haydn’s Imperial Mass at
St. Pati’ick’s, and she sang the leading part.
Conductor Plumpton encouraged her on that
occasion to sing, at slight. Elizabeth’s
Prayer from “Tannhauser”; the effort was
entirely successful. This led to her acquaint-
ance with Vogrich. After marriage, they
soon left Australia and were 15 years in
New York ; then some years at Weimar, in
Germany, after which they settled in Lon-
don, returning to New York when war
began. Vogrich died last June. He had
won fame by composing operas and other
works. In New York his wife sang in his
oratorio, “The Captivity,” at the Metropoli-
tan Opera House, with a chorus of 800.
Otherwise she was mostly in retirement,
though there were desires for her to sing
both in Paris and in Germany. Violinist
Mischa Elman was a pupil of Vogrich, who
composed a well-known concerto which the
wizard played in Australia.
(Continued on page 26.)
DOG WEARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She isn’t much to look at, and
She nothing has to : say—
She’s leader of a splendid band
That makes the picture play.
Remarkable her dresses are,
They set the dames agog;
Her acting’s rather under par—
But, oh, she loves her dog!
She is the tearful victim whom
The villain still pursues;
She’s threatened with a hideous doom
In fell volcanic stews;
Or else tight to the iron rail
She’s fastened in a fog—
But come what may she will not fail
To hug her darling dog!
We know she has a nature sweet
If, catching up the cur
That’s lone and battered in the street,
She kisses it right there.
I wish she’d love some kind old cow,
A wombat, or a frog;
No! Every star’s a dog-star now—
A darned-sight too much dog!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


USHER'S
Met ropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This; Modern and most Elegantly-
Fur fiisht 3d and Up*to*date Hotel is
cor aplete in every detail, and,
un fler tho management of Host
U? liter, the Comforts of a Perfect
H ome are assured. The Cuisine
a nd Service will compare favor-
v ibly with ait) ’ Hotel in England,
America or thO Continent. Bath
|)e Tju\e in mcnf’t of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Government Notlees.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 22nd March, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of an Electric Jib
Crane for Workshops, Henderson
Naval Base, W.A.
rriENDERS will be received until 12 noon,
A. 16th May, 1917, for the supply and
delivery of an Electric Jib Crane for Work-
shops, Henderson Naval Base, W.A. Deliv-
ery to be made f.o.r. Fremantle.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application at the Office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; and at the Naval Staff Offices,
Brisbane, Edgecliff (Sydney), Birkenhead
(S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Jib
Crane” on top left-hand corner of envelope
and addressed (if by post pre-paid) to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; or the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, c/o one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
CASTOR OIL, SALTS * DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness —
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of I'igs
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig"
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [3
SOCIETY
MINCHINBUR[?]
■•Rio” on How to Behave in the Army:—
When the Minister for Defence replies to questions
on the subject he invariably states that “officers have
to salute their superiors in the same way as men
and to return the salutes of soldiers,” or words to
that effect. This is an evasion. The regulation
governing officers is that they will salute their
superiors when addressing them on parade or on
duty. Now, l have never encountered any Billjim
who objected to salute an officer when addressing
him on duty or to pay the compliment to his
own regimental and higher officers off duty. What
he does object to is the rule which makes him salute
every star or crown he encounters. An officer on
leave ignores superiors whom he does not know per-
sonally, and merely nods to those he is acquainted
with, except in the case of very important men
Indeed, to whom a courtesy salute may be given.
Again, take the returning of salutes. Suppose an
officer walking along a path near which a dozen
Billjims are lounging. Each man must as the exalted
one approaches stand up to attention and salute. If,
however, it is a dozen officers who are lying about
and Bill comes along, saluting each one as he
RING-A-RING-A-ITOSY.
SHE: “I don't like my ring, love"
HE: “ Don't like it! Well, you're the excep-
tion. All the others did."
passes, do they get on their hind legs and “return
the salute” as per regulation? No fear! One pro-
bably puts one finger to his cap, another waves his
cigarette in an airy way or waggles his stick or
~ Ws. In the old British regular army the men are
la Hgsely recruited from a class which has been used
t 0 touching its cap to its social superiors all its
life. In saluting an officer a soldier of this class is
only -'doing what he has been accustomed to, and
failu ft- to do so is rightly regarded as evidence of
insub ordination or slackness. Nine out of 10 Aus-
tralia os* ° n the other hand, have never in their
existei Wie raised their hats to a man, and an omission
to sail 'be merely means that they haven’t been able
to ovei the habits of a lifetime in the short
period c, * training.
If an Anzac grumbles about saluting some offieer-
boy he is told “You are not saluting tfc* man but
the uniform!” This popular gag mystifies honest
Billjim more than ever. “Salute a blankv suit of
clothes!” he growls. “You’ll want me to salute the
postman next.”
Had we not inherited the elaborate saluting code
from the British Army, no alert military organiser
would ever have dreamt of introducing the device
to democratic Australia. Yet Ido not think it is
necessarily servile or menial. The Commonwealth
Regular Forces are very punctilious in saluting, and
there is nothing servile about them. Some years
ago I had a lot to do with the hiring of civilian
transport, mostly farm waggons, at the camps of
training held in a certain district. The drivers soon
got to know me and look to me for orders, rations
and pay. If I pass through that district to-day the
driver of every second waggon I meet pulls up,
salutes me quite correctly barring a grin of recogni-
tion and says, “Good day. Any chanst of another
camp up this way?”
Perth had its first taste of locally-grown
venison the other day. Years ago the Accli-
matisation Society liberated four red deer in
the Pinjarra district, about 60 miles south
of Perth, and these have since multiplied to
over 200. The herd was protected until
recently, but complaints from eockies about
broken wire fences, rampageous love-making,
interference with cattle and being a nuis-
ance generally, became so loud and numer-
ous that permission was granted to shoot
the offenders. The first, a young stag, was
potted by an irate farmer, and the proceeds
from the subsequent sale of its carcase in
the capital were added to the Red Cross
fund. An interesting feature about the
deceased is that its coat was more black
than red and it was much heavier and
stronger than its ancestors. This also
applies to others of the herd who have been
born and bred on the spot.
“F.N.T.” : Victoria has a lot of nice, clean
laws relating to the public health —Acts con-
taining all sorts of provisions concerning
meat-inspection, dairy sanitation and so
forth. But —well, consider the law by
which the retail butcher, before wrapping
up orders in the newspaper allowed as an
outer covering, is supposed to place a piece
of clean, unprinted paper around the meat.
The other day, when I called in for the usual
round of beef, the butcher dabbed on the top
of the meat a small square of white paper.
Then he proceeded to wrap the whole thing
up in a yard of “news,” so that there was
about one-fifth of the area covered with
plain paper and four-fifths otherwise. Just
as I was leaving the shop the barber from
over the way tottered in with a shoulder-
load of old papers, which he placed on the
counter to go against the next meat-order
for his family; and everybody knows wffiat a
newspaper looks like after it has been
handled by a day’s customers at a barbery.
Still, as you’ll allow, it is a nice, clean
beautiful law which declares for pure, sani-
tary meat-wraps.
“Helersy”: You never know where you
are going to fetch up when you start for
this war. I never imagined myself stewing
at Freetown, Sierra Leone; yet we were in
the pot; there for 15 days. During that
period the river gradually filled up with
vessels, until, just before we left, there were
over 30 in all. Freetown is a
whole coon song. I saw only
two white women and half a
dozen men out of khaki. The rest
—police, parsons, postmen, shop-
keepers and all—are coal black.
You see all types, from the
wealthy negro gent, clothed in a
suit of the latest European cut,
and speaking good English, to
naked boatmen in bark canoes —
probably recent arrivals from up
the river. Great quantities of
African curios (mostly made in
Birmingham), women washing in
channels by the roadside, swarms
of enormous bats in the cocoanut
palms, a women’s witch-dance,
and a novel form of Sedan chair
—these are outstanding memories
of Freetown. Then off to sea again to dream
of fresh vegetables and the minor luxuries
of life. You could at this moment buy a
dray load of curios on this weary ship for a
tin of jam.
There is work for the Win-the-War
specialists if they will only do it. A trans-
port officer alleges against one vessel that
Billjim’s loaves were systematically baked
underweight by the pirates in the galley, and
that tons of Government flour thus filched
were hoarded below and charged up afresh
when the ship was taking in stores at the
end of the voyage. One head steward who
had since left the service h?.d bragged of
making £l5OO in 15 months by the miserable
fraud. A little of the useless pomp and
ceremony that goes on aboard every trans-
port might be swapped for a pair of kitchen
scales, with great advantage to Billjim.
QUITE READY TO SAVE TROUBLE .
SHE: “If I let you kiss me this once, will you promise not to ask me again?”
HE: “Certainly, dear—if you consider asking unnecessary."
In his new “Short History of Australia”
Professor Ernest Scott, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, recalls that this country has its
own “scrap of paper” to settle about with
the Hun. In 1883 Premier Mcllwraith, of
Queensland, formally annexed New Guinea,
but the British authorities declined to
recognise the deal. Later, Lord Granville,
then Foreign Secretary, had a second look
at the subject, and decided to send an
NOW, WHAT DID THE GIRL MEAN?
SHE: “I would Mice to have been there!"
MAJOR: “But, my dear girl, I assure you a
battlefield is no place for young ladies."
SHE: “Oh, I am sure I would be quite safe
with you!"
officer along to take possession of the island;
but on the suggestion of Bismarck, who
reckoned “there ought to be a friendly
understanding by means of a Commission,”
he delayed the officer’s departure and sent
the Under-Secretary for the Colonies to
confer with Bismarck at Berlin. Says Scott;
While the British representative sent over in
good faith was conversing with the German Chan-
cellor, a German ship was speeding full steam to
Papua, and had annexed the north. part and several
of the adjacent islands . before the British Foreign
Secretary knew that anything definite had been
decided upon.
Professor Scott’s authority for this version
of the old story is Lord Fitzmaurice’s bio-
graphy of Lord Granville; and that ought
to be good enough for anything.
See how we help to win the war by econo-
mising in shipping transport! Certain Aus-
tralian (mostly Sydney) merchants during
1915 bought from Ceylon large quantities
of whole-leaf tea. “It was recognised,” re-
marks the S. M. Heeald’s eominorffi-.l
expert, “that few of the whole-leafs would be
used in Australia; but it was thought that
they could be disposed .of elsewhere at a
profit. As it happened, buyers outside Aus-
tralia would not bid up to what holders here
wanted, so these whole-leafs have hung like
an incubus on the market during the last
six months.” In other words, the mer-
chants used up shipping space to import
those teas, not because they thought Aus-
tralia wanted them, but because they
reckoned the importation would be a good
spec. Now the United States, which pre-
fers whole-leaf and wants a lot of it for its
fighting forces, has bought up a big quantity
of the unnecessary Australian stock. So
the local speculator gets his profit, after all.
and incidentally more shipping transport is
“economised” to take the stuff away.
A judgment given by the Chief Justice in
the Tasmanian Full Court clears up what
very little doubt there was about the validity
of “soldiers’ wills.” This Billjim bad been
killed at the Gallipoli landing. The will
was made in favor of his fiancee and posted
in a letter to a friend. The soldier’s brother
contested it, *• claiming that it was invalid
because it had not been properly witnessed,
etc. The Court, however, granted the
administration of the will to the soldier’s
sweetheart —which settles that little mat-
ter in the way it ought to be settled. But
it shouldn’t encourage Billjim to go off
without leaving his little bit of paper all
properly witnessed. There will be no risk
of his money being wasted in an Equity
law-suit then, as it was in the Tasmanian
case; for even though the will stood the
poor little estate had to stand the costs.
The universities of Melbourne and
Adelaide have been having a brief discussion
as to which first gave degrees to women.
Adelaide’s Calendar has for years claimed
that honor, in its preface, without contradic-
tion, and the Register brought out this argu-
ment when reviewing Professor Ernest
Scott’s new “History of Australia,” which
claims it for Melbourne. But after inquiry
Adelaide has admitted that its claim was
wrong. Professor Pearson got the Vic-
torian Bill through in 1879; Adelaide fol-
lowed in 1880. And while Adelaide’s first
lady graduate, Miss Dornwell, was not ad-
mitted till 1885, Melbourne’s first. Miss
Guerin (since better known as Mrs. Bella
Lavender), was congratulated in 1883.
JEANNETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.Some day we’ll finish on the Rhine
The job they sent us here to do,
And when we’ve dished the Prussian “schwein”
Our hearts will turn, dear land, to you ;
And yet, before we change the view
From sunny France, and quite forget
How oft we swore our loves were true,
We’d like once more to kiss Jeannette.
Our Sydney girls will not repine
Or grieve at one small lapse or two,
For when dear eyes are all asliine
The boys wlio’d baulk are only few ;
Whatever loves we may pursue
In Melbourne fair or Brisbane yet,
They will not grudge sweet France her due,
Or mind the kiss we give Jeannette.
For human half, and half divine,
Is this gay France we’ve battled through;
And ev’ry heart has throbbed like mine
To think what men might win or woo ;
And yet our fancies always flew
Right back where Southern waters fret
And skies are bent of speckless blue—
But now once more we’d kiss Jeannette.
Exvor.
Dear girls at Home, we only sue
For one small grace on which we're set:
Just close your eyes, you laughing crew,
The while we kiss once more Jeannette.
qUEE.VSIAXIi.
P. BORN.


Urged by British shells, the Huns in France
are lighting out to keep urgent engagements
at their own frontiers, followed by eager pur-
suers inspired by that Royal spirit King
George IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
vxc
vc
v
EASY SHAVING
no longer a
Barber’s Secret
Men with tough, wiry beards; men with tender
faces; men who worry the best barber while shaving
them; men who could never before hone a razor into
decent shape, are writing us every day about the smooth,
easy shaves they are getting with the Perforated Hone.
The Perforated Hone is the only one made that can be used
by the ordinary man. Use your finest blade or yonr poorest, give a
few strokes or hone all day, the result will be fhe same—a perfect
shave. The perforations prevent wire-edge and make it
impossible for you to overset your rnzor. They automat-
cally 'prouuoe a perfect keen shaving edge. The Perforated Hone is made
from an exceptionally fine natural stone found in British Columbia. It lasts a
lifetime.
Keeps New Razors Keen and True.
Try one —if it doesn’t make your razor shave to your satis=
a faction return It to us and get your money back.
Sold everywhere at 47“» or P os * * ree 474 , « * rom :
The Perforated Hone Co.,
" Dept. 1G —123 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. [1
HUDSWELL, CLARKE 8 CO
■1
cl
LEEDS.
Locos, of ail Types.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent
J. GERMAN, iff*?*"’ Ocean House, Moore St., Sydney
Country newspapers in the wheat-cockying
parts of N. S. Wales are discomforting little
sheets nowadays. You can scarcely pick
one up without finding a column or so of
clearing-out sale advts. In very many cases
the farmers who are giving “the land” best
are young men who have decided that any
old job is better than theirs. This isn’t
very hopeful for the Repatriation scheme of
settling untried men as farmers; and a
serious inquiry into the causes of it all
looks about the most important job a State
Government could undertake. According to
experienced men who have been pervading
Sydney at Show time, hundreds of farmers
THE WHEREABOUTS OF FATHER.
"Your overcoat this morning is covered with
mud.”
"Yes, I dropped it in the gutter as I was
coming home last night.”
"And were you in it?”
AFTER THE CUP.
THE LUCKY FRIEND: "Well, how did you fellows get on?"
THE UNLUCKY OPTIMIST: “Still got our health and strength.”
are in serious difficulties because they can't
get paid for their last two seasons’ wheat.
The Government took over the whole
of the crop; but up to this week it
had paid only 3s. per bushel for
the 1915 wheat and 2s. Od. for the
1916 crop. As the whole of it has been sold
to the British Government at a fixed price
that will yield the cocky an average of about
4s. 3d., the man with whips of time to
think can’t see why he should not get some
form of legal-tender note so that he might
pay his debts and buy tucker, etc., till next
harvest. He knows that a scheme of the
kind has been worked in Egypt, in connec-
tion with the cotton crop, and he is dead-
sure that the Egyptian cotton-grower
doesn’t want money worse than he does.
Matters are not made any better by assur-
ing him that the Australian Government
has done all it can. If he accepts the assur-
ance it only makes him more certain that
farming is not the game it was cracked up to
be.
“Petifi” : During the customary opening of
Sydney Show with a corkscrew, a tun or
two of eloquence was spilt about its “educa-
tional value.” After the first night a lot of'
people agreed with the eloquence. While a
•‘bushranging” show was on in the big ring
one performer’s horse, scared into hysterics
by the shooting and shouting, bolted, cleared
the fence, and lobbed among the crowd. The
closely-packed mob thereupon got consider-
able education in the useful business of
dodging four big, stamping, irresponsible
hooves. Plow many impressionable Aus-
tralian kids were “educated” into the belief
that one of the higher duties of citizenship
is to “shoot a John,” or at least heave a
brick at him, I can’t say; but they must
have been numerous. Surely this is not
what the Government pays the society a
subsidy for.
“P.0.M.” : Germany is short of fats. The
London market last week was glutted with
Danish butter. From the nearest Danish
cow to the first hungry German is about a
hundred yards. From Denmark to Britain
is about 320 miles over a sea strewn with
explosives. Yet the Danes get their butter
through to England and Germany goes short.
In that brief statement may be found a
picture of the wars of the future. Fifty
years ago Prussia and Austria hammered the
little Danish armies and tore from the small
nation two of its provinces. Yet Denmark
didn’t plunge into the present war like Servia
and Belgium; she scented other ways of
injuring the Kaiser. Every pat of butter on
a London table is a blow struck at Teuton
despotism. If Germany gets short enough
of fats Germany will die. So there is a road
to peace and victory without bloodshed, and
Strawberry in her full-uddered legions stands
as a conscript of civilisation.
The N. S. Wales Industrial Court is find-
ing that it is one thing to inflict a £lOOO
fine and another to collect it. A bailiff
has been sent in pursuit of the money which
the Meat Employees’ Union has not paid,
and apparently does
not intend to pay:
but the inner offices
of the Union have
been kept bolted, and
there is nothing worth
collecting in the outer
office —a mere waiting-
room—which is as far
as the Court’s pleni-
potentiary can get.
He has no power to
force an entrance, he
can’t arrest the Union
and lodge it in gaol,
and there seems to be
no authority to im-
pound the cash of the
organisation. Even
if there was, and
an attempt was made to enforce it, it is
doubtful whether any cash could be found.
* * * *
“Cape York’’: One of Sydney’s beastly
habits is to have a rabbit bureau in a corner
of the Sydney fruit-markets, where, in the
early mornings, bunny is dissected and dis-
pelted by the ton. Millions of flies gorge
on the piles of carcases and then wander to
the adjacent fruit sections and tramp over
the exposed apples, pears, etc. The Sydney
Municipal Council employs men to see that
no one commits the heinous offence of drop-
ping tram-tickets about the streets, and
sticks up notices imploring the people to
keep their city clean. The same Council also
owns and runs the fruit-markets and allows
this horror to go on—like the old Biblical
gent who was uppercut for polishing the
outside of the pewter and taking his chance
with the inside.
* # *■ »
“Chrome Green”: Fritz Hart, of the
Albert-street Conservatorium, lately appeared
before the Vic. Artists’ Society’s Council
armed with documentary evidence of Melba’s
unusual taste in Art. The distinguished
Jady, it would appear, is willing to decorate
the Galleries at her own expense provided
the artists agree to her color-scheme. A
modest condition, surely, -when painters like
Mclnnes, Richardson and Meldrum are on
the council and had, perforce, politely to lis-
ten to Melba’s ambassador explaining that
the diva proposed Naples yellow for the
walls, a green carpet and a white platform.
One artist felt it tragically. “Why,” he
said, “we’ll have to paint pictures to suit
Melba’s weird color scheme!” It may be
explained that the Artists’ Society rents its
galleries to the musical crowd, and is per-
mitted by the tenants to hang its members’
pictures on its members’ own walls once a
year.
“Country Fed”: “Wriggs” (B. 29/3/T7J
tells a story of a party of Billjims assault-
ing the bark of a “spreading chestnut tree"
in the village of Figheldean, on Salisbury
Plain, believing it was the one their school-
masters had belted into them. Billjim has
had his leg pulled again. The spreading
chestnut tree of the Longfellow poem was
in Cambridge, near Boston (U.S.A.). The
tree was cut down long before Longfellow
died; and the school-children of Cambridge
had a chair made of the wood, and presented
it to the old man on his seventieth birthday.
*•■***
The usual rumors regarding the fate of
an Australian transport have been again
put around, whereupon Pearce has remarked:
There is a heavy penalty for offences of this kind,
and it is most desirable that those responsible for
spreading these stories, which are most distressing
to the relatives of men on transports, should be
dealt with promptly.
Pearce might make a start by dealing
promptly with himself and his' overlord,
Hughes. Only the scandalous censorship
exercised by these two makes such wild
rumors credible, and if they were not
credible they would* soon drop dead. If the
public knows that something is happening
in a dark room with closed doors there are
bound to be wild yarns and speculations as
to what precisely the something is; open
the doors and turn on the light and specu-
lation is at an end. Parents and soldiers
who have suffered from unfounded rumors
would do well to remember that Tudor
promises a relaxation of the censorship if
the Labor party is returned. Nothing of
the .sort can be hoped for from Hughes and
Pearce, who created the ugly thing, and put
it to such a use that Holman, E'uller,
E'itzgerald and Garland, the leaders of both
political parties in both Houses in N. S.
Wales, declined to go on the platform with
Hughes until the regulations were with-
drawn. Hughes crawled down and with-
drew those regulations; but there have been
plenty of others since then.
[B. J. Harrison Owen, 75 Glenhuntlv (toad,
Elwood, Vie.]
The One Big Union idea is making great
headway these times. Another long stride
was taken the other day when the clerks,
shop assistants, carters, storemen and others,
right down to caretakers, watchmen and
motor-car washers, formed up as the Mer-
cantile Employees’ Union of Australia. The
A KINDLY
WISH.
“Well, Miss, may we
never grow ugly!"
basis of the One Big Union scheme is a
grouping of unions in accordance with affin-
ity of interests, each g> - oup having a council
which, in its turn, sends its delegates to a
central committee. This is to be the ultimate
controlling power of all unionism. Since
the fatherly A.W.U. got its group practi-
cally complete the massing of forces has pro-
ceeded swiftly. Now the question is: What
use are the unions going to make of their
concentrated power? Hitherto, the bigger
the union the more defiant of law it has
been; and if the smaller unions ai'e combin-
ing into a big union merely to be able to
scoff at the law, then it’s a poor look-out for
democracy. For it simply takes us back
again to the days of the robber barons.
THE COMPLEAT CANDIDATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tjuie day I'll stand for Parliament, and when thr
crowd arrives
1 shall arise and give them all the evening of their
lives.
In deep, grave, hold, resounding tones 1 shall
announce the fact
That now the time is really ripe for loyal souls to
act;
l shall remark, amid loud cheers, that but a single
way
Is open to the Britisher who’d prove his breed.
[ Hooray! ]
1 shall step boldly forward, with my band upon my
heart,
And tell of how I deeply yearn to take my country’s
part,
The while my hearers help me on with brollies and
with boots;
And 1 shall then declare, amid long, loud, approving
hoots,
That all unpatriotters should be blotted from the
earth
Or sent to live at Broken Hill —ha, ha! ' [Applause
and mirth.]
Tu measured tones I shull essay to show how calm I
feel,
Yet indicate, beneath the glove, the sinews strong
as steel;
And then, in swift, impassioned speech, like lightning
I shall leap
To strike the en’my’s castles down and leave them in
a heap—
To tear the traitor’s vitals out and flap them in the
air
\nd stamp him in the gutter... .so to speak and as
it were.
Yini when some rude elector asks me what 1 mean to
do,
I'll spout a panegyric on the Flag that Waves for
You.
And, when the cheering ceases for a moment, I shall
speak
A piece about my party as the champion of the weak;
I shall explain that I intend to keep Australia free
If but the kind electors leave the ways and means to
me.
I shall express these sentiments in yards of flowing
speech
So simply that the truths I toll the meanest minds
may reach ;
Eight earnest]., f shall expound such doctrines, one
by one,
Between the tumults of applause; and, when my task
is done,
Amid the joyful noises that tumultuously greet
The rich upwellings of my soul, I shall resume my
seat.


THE LAST RESOURCE.
PROMINENT CASTAWAY: “It is our only hope; if they fail to see the flag, all is lost.”
[NORMAN LINDSAY. Springwood. N.S.W.]


“ftfese quick chafes nt
international relations
'v dre di'slurbuis to
) j a respectable family
I i ourrla *. anxious
A y/fZ do
JjS L-/Cit's duty.
jpJIM/fl'’
WrJ 6wfrg rc tV« sad fatality at ftlii office —I
m when flic Bulletin frophcTwas
M |ws*|<d off flie n*of under sujfeicioys
Mj cireumiSmces.lhe manner,* receiu.™
. Cuen.«4 off a <««* ~
VACANCY.
fiwi'rg IS tlic sad fa&liTy at this office
LlaS-n*«k when tlie Bulletin fnophetwas
pvs*jed off tlie n*of under sujfeicioua
circumJimces.tHe manner is ,w* luios
«(>)>liatnons far H. An a TU»
off a weels „ *,«.
<Wfera o\a surfs end Ai« o^ 0 ?
PaymenT on, *** u lT»v '
\ ’ v Here is the ;==== -
Editor -the’Bulletin
chunks oJt o\ his leading articles
about America to -fif the altered situaTion,
111 ‘
It' is impossible to take a
quiet cup oj.lea wftfl -Hie patriotic
lady editor nowa-days
without rvieeTirs a uoad of
chewing-gum Somewhere.
itii’s is tvlorman liridsay
last moritVjs cartoons,
Any printer?* errors In "HtTis issue
maybe ascribed to the pact" that tire
; Comps- insist on setting op
cy the paper m ragtime.
Here we have a theatrical critic , hauing decided
tor patriotic reasons -the blackness
'in His heart'and
I to appear -jb enjoy
American plays.
flof.w his Civil War
SuiT .Has been busy
a"t -Hie telegraph ojfi'cc
f?ooseVel t his
Co-operation m running
division.
Cirtoomfct:
'Who can we hit up
•this week ?”
Editor;
We still have Hughes
and Spain !'
Models ; Want any muddles Ipr comic. Uncle Sants ,si"r 7“
Artist : '"Times and Uncle sams have chared. . I've
just enjased this beautifil person- |or three
years or the duration the War. “ fT\
ike \ y
discovered unsospeclecl oU
S^mpat fy wITtW Washirtsftor?. *
tlfe Melbourne
jl Editor, led away by
[ admiration, breaks
into * the Star- / a^T~ s
Singled Banner"\
ion iiis new Type- ,dS
| writer, while. Ifei
Staff f
. mdujges \n ■
a cake walklH
REFLECTIONS ON AMERICA COMING- IN.


UMP
/P
ff The Trusty Triumph is
f * mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Csventry, England.
Agents:
Bznnztttfßarkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Ca3tlareagh
Street, Sydney.
Ok
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
<e>
V
KK
V"
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&WhIITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(aILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY.
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
More April birthdays: David Barclay,
Hobart’s banker, 71 on 18th; R. A. Tarlton,
formerly. of Adelaide, now of Johannesburg,
89 on 21st; playwright C. Haddon Chambers
(native of Sydney), 57, Federal Minister
L. E. Groom, 50, and Jack Virgo, of the
Y.M.C.A., 52, on 22nd; Prof. Dakin (W.A.),
34 on 23rd ; James Davies, secretary of the
United Commercial Travellers’ Association,
52 on 25th; W. J. Sowden (S.A. Register),
59 on 26th; Geo. Judah Cohen (Sydney),
75 on 27th ; and R. Teece (A.M.P. Soc.), 70
on 29th.
EVERYTHING ALL RIGHT.
CUSTOMER: “I sent you back the forest-
devil I got here last week, and — er —
you will remember you — er—said
something—er—about returning the
money if it wasn’t all right!”
DIDDLESTEIN : “ Doan’dt vorry, doan’dt vorry,
mine friendt. Dot monish vos orlriglit,
effery pid of it!”
George Brown, the just-dead President of
the Methodist General Conference of Aus-
tralasia, started life as a chemist’s appren-
tice. then went to sea and drifted at last
to Maoriland, where he “got religion” and
became a missionary. From 1859 to 1881
lie carried the Word to brown brother in
Samoa, Fiji and elsewhere in the Pacific;
and he was the first missionary of the
Methody brand in New Britain, Papua and
the Solomons. Brown didn’t believe in
turning the other cheek too often, and his
action in punishing the murderers of some
of his colleagues in New Britain at the end
of the ’7o’s caused him to be charged with
manslaughter on his return to Fiji; but the
Governor refused to file a bill against him.
He prided himself on direct descent from
Bishop Ridley, one of the “Protestant
martyrs” burnt in the Cold Country in the
bad old days of Blanky Mary.
Judges who are Australian-born: Chief
Justices Cullen (N.S.W.), Pope Cooper
(Q-)> Murray (S.A.) and Nicholls (Tas.) ;
High Court Justices Barton, Isaacs and
Powers; Ma State Supreme Court Judges
Pring, Sly, Gordon, Street and Ferguson;
Justice Hood (the first barrister born and
educated in Melbourne to reach the Bench)
and Justice Cussen, of Victorian Supreme
Court; Justices Lukin (Q.), Buchanan
LIGHT HORSE RECRUITING.
ENTHUSIASTIC LADY: “Young fellow, if I
were a man I’d fill that saddle myself.”
YOUNG FELLOW: “Easy, Missus!”
(S.A.), Crisp (Tas.) and Northmore
(W.A.). There are possibly one or two
other Supreme Court Judges who are
native-born. At any rate, four of the six
States’ Chief Justices, and more than one-
half of the present Puisne Judges, are Aus-
tralians by birth.
Just-dead F. L. Outtrim, who used to be
Deputy P.M.G., was almost the double of his
brother, A.R., a member of the Vic. Legis-
lative Ass. F.L. was once met in Bourke-
street in the lunch-hour by a politician, who
promptly proceeded to pump into him the
details of the latest plot to defeat the Min-
istry. When F.L. grasped the situation he
gave the politician the tip that he was not
his brother. Ten minutes later, in Collins-
street. F.L. again ran into the political con-
spirator, who greeted him with: “Hullo, old
man; I’ve just had a funny experience. I
met your brother, the Deputy, in Bourke
street and started to tell” F.L. did
not feel like attempting a further explana-
tion, so this time he just listened.
Of the numerous professional politicians
temporarily out of a job and asking that
they should be elected to the Federal Parlia-
ment, Laborite Frank Anstey is the only one
who on his nomination paper states frankly
that he has “no occupation.” Hughes give's
his occupation as “barrister-at-law.” As
a matter of fact the little Welshman has
personally figured in court cases only three
times in the last few years—once as witness
and twice as defendant.
[B. J. llaurtson Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road,
Elwood, Vic.]
The record political meeting during the
present contest was held by James Boyd, who
is trying to hold the Ilenty (Vic.) seat in the
Reps. Boyd was advertised to speak one
night at Moorabbin. where the market-
gardeners remember Tummas Bent as their
most remarkable product. The audience
consisted of two (2) . persons. Of course
ILenty is a truly-bluely Liberal constitu-
ency, the unimpressive Boyd having polled
a mile ahead of the combined Labor and
Independent vote at the last election.
Colonel Crouch, ex-M.H.R., the Independent
in that contest, left long ago for the Front.
Not, of course, that Crouch is doing any-
thing to win the war. It is the Phewses
who stay at home who are doing all that.
A man who spoke a piece in aid of recruit-
ing at a recent Sydney meeting had enough
scars to fit out 10 veterans—46 wounds
which had called for 23 operations. He was
Lieut. Casey, a Queensland Rhodes scholar,
who, besides his own hurts, has suffered the
loss of three brothers.
Hobart’s two jolly millers, John Murdoch
and Son and W. J. Gibson, Ltd., have just
amalgamated. The Murdochs have been in
the grain business in Hobart since 1840,
and the solid stone building that houses
them is older still, for it was up in 1820.
The original John Murdoch put. in, in 1851,
the first hydraulic press known in the Speck,
and used it for dumping hay and chaff for
California. Even when California began to
grow her own stuff it came in handy, for lie
did a roaring trade with the Victorian dig-
gings in the ’so’s. In fact, he imported oats
from California, and, according to tradi-
tion, the first seeds of the Californian
thistle came with them.
John B. Steel, the cheerful enthusiast and
good Australian who, a few years ago,
formed the Unification League, .is contesting
the Richmond seat against Massey Greene
(Phewsionist). His unification ideas should
make a strong appeal to the Richmond elec-
tors, who, hit by the policy of bloating Syd-
ney, lately had a secession movement of
their own. The chances of a Labor man in
Richmond are not brilliant; but Steel may
score some of the votes he deserves as an
Australian who has helped along Australian
industry and wants to help along its large-
ideas.
George Donaldson, who has been so long
in the Far West (N.S.W.) that he ought to
be able to find his way about blindfolded, was,
for all that, bushed the other day near Mun-
gindi, and put up an astonishing record for
a man who won’t be young any more. He
was entirely without food for 17 days, and
was reasonably well, though peckish, when
found. Tom Heney, now editor of the
S. M. Herald, used to specialise in stories
of long starves in the far-back time when he
ran the Western Grazier in Wilcannia,
where Donaldson hung up a general mer-
chant’s sign. The best performances were
put up in the days of the Mount Browne rush ;
that was the time when one of the Nolans,
the fine brotherhood of prospectors, did a
five weeks’ perish on white grubs and pig-
weed.
“Hamer” (Harold Mercer) kisses the
numerous little “Hamers” and goes into
camp this week. Not many more versatile
men have got on to the Australian Inky
Way; and when he wasn’t on the Inky
Way he was probably out auditing a firm’s
accounts, organising a new union, or rush-
ing off somewhere in charge of the greatest
theatrical show on earth—and prepared to
play most things at about an hour’s notice.
When “Hamer” finds out what his job in
life really is he will be liable to do some-
thing big. Perhaps it is soldiering.
John Hyde Nisbett, who passed out the
other day in Sydney, aged 74, had been
40-odd years in the Ma State’s Justice
Department. Most of the time he was fining
the local drunk—at Glen Innes, Nowra,
Cootamundra and elsewhere. He finally
climbed off the bench for a rest seven years
ago, and since then has seen two sons off in
khaki.
AN IMPROVEMENT.
HE: “I say! Do I look a bally fool in this
yet up?”
SHE: “Oh, no, George! It disguises you a
lot!”
Joseph Mant, who passed out at
Woonona (N.S.W.) in the 83rd lap the
other day, joined the British Navy in 1853,
just in time for the Crimean war. He had
a hand in the bombardment of Sebastopol,
and later on chased pirates in Chinese
waters. Five brothers also served in the
Navy.
The Bank of N. S. Wales was p hundred
years old last week. Sergeant Jeremiah
Murphy was the~ bank’s first customer. He
deposited £5O; and behind him came John
Harris, of Ultimo, with £I3S Is. 4d.
EASY TO PLEASE.
BROWN : “Did I leave an umbrella here
yesterday?”
BARBER: “What laud of an umbrella?”
BROWN: “Oh, any hind, I’m not fussy.”
George 11. Wilkins came home to Mel-
bourne the other day after putting in three
years, first as photographer and later as
second in command of the Stefansson
Arctic Expedition, which left Canada
in 1913 and only returned to civilisation at
the end of last year. The party got a fail-
helping of incident, including the smash-up
of the principal ship, the Karluk. Eleven of
the crew were lost that time. At the job
of writing up reports Wilkins is toiling over-
time, for he wants to talk Eskimo with an
Australian accent to the Kaiser.
Died at Mosman (N.S.W.), J. D.
Bradley, aged 76, one-time deputy-chief-
inspector of State schools. Bradley began
as a pupil-teacher under the old National
Board 60 years ago, and had climbed every
rung of the ladder on the professional side
of the service. He retired eight years ago
after more than half a century’s toil.
The Melbourne Hospital committee, which
has had a lot of broken sleep lately over its
war-reduced medical staff, has just appointed
a new senior resident —a returned soldier.
Les Hurley, some time a private on Gallipoli
with three years of his medical course then
behind him. Dad is inspector of schools at
Ballarat.
This is gran’pa’s day in politics. Gran’pa
Edmund Jowett, for instance, is the Phew-
sion candidate for Maribyrnong (Vic.) in
opposition to Fenton (Labor). The grand-
child in the case is the Clive Fairbairns’
new babe, born the other day in Britain.
Gran’pa George Fairbairn, who is one of
the Vic. Senate Three, is several times a
grand-dad.
The Ma State lost one of the brainiest of
its civil servants on Easter Sunday, when
Edward Rayment died of pneumonia at Dun-
fermline (Scotland), aged 36. After 16 years
in the service, Rayment was sent to London
in 1912 to take charge of a joint immigra-
tion campaign for N. S. Wales and Vic. He
travelled through most European countries
before the war, advertising Australia and
keeping his eyes open for classes of immi-
grants likely to make good Australian citi-
zens. After Bill's burglary of Belgium, Ray-
ment volunteered in London, and got a com-
mission in the Engineers. He put in some
slushy months in Flanders, till Governor
Strickland’s coolness with the Holman Gov-
ernment made a general election likely.
Naturally, Ma State politics were more im-
portant than the trifling matter of booting the
Huns out of Belgium, so N. S. Wales Agent-
General Coglilan persuaded the War Office
to grant Rayment leave, and sent him to
Egypt to arrange for taking a poll among
N. S. Wales soldiers there. When the fusion
with Wade had saved the politicians from
having to toe the line, Rayment was no
longer needed in Egypt, and was sent recruit-
ing through Wales and Scotland. An elder
brother is secretary to the staff committee
of N. S. Wales railways, and their father,
who was for half a century with Farmer’s
Ltd., still lives at Willoughby.
A PEAN OF GLADNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Even after a nation was bankrupted it still had
the sunshine and the soil and the spirit of the
people. This country had all of them in a marked
degree. AVe were a wonderful people with a wonder-
ful heritage. —Joseph Cook.
Let us inflate our chests a little proudly!
Observe our happy sunshine lightly stream
O’er fertile fields with mutton bleating loudly,
And dairy cows full-charged with pleasant cream.
AA r e are most wonderful; and though to-morrow
The bailiff come along from Cohen’s camp,
Don’t worry. His will be the tears of sorrow
That make our smiling landscape somewhat damp.
The spirit of the people is not beaten
Because the land goes bankrupt now and then.
The soil is here; and, though our cake be eaten,
AVe cannot, will not, starve like lesser men.
Don’t fret because your cash and hopes are wasted;
Things are just now a little out of gear;
But large prosperity may yet be tasted
After the smash lias made our pathway clear.
AVe can’t be licked. Our land remains forever
A heritage to keep ns still alive.
Our rain and sun are excellently clever
At counting two and two and making five.
Beans shall survive and pumpkins come in season;
The glory of our future none can rob.
AVe’re IT! The world is glad! All else were
treason,
Because, thank God and Hughes, I’ve got a job !
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


£
&
0
01
a
i am, i
hu*!d
111111111 l
I*" 7
„iiiim»nin.
iirtl'
. '■iiiiiiiiiimiiiihi.miiiii .
l'><iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ll iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiL”
1n... lillllllllllllllllllllllillll.ini. "ll
lllljl
lIIIIIIIIIIHI lIIMIIIIIIfI
|lllllllii||iiilllliiH||liuiiim^
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-;;;
'iiiiiiiiiii.il Him,iilliiiiiiilill'”
S
""•■llllllllllllllllllllll
HiihT
''"""ll HR i'i | i |,, i
mu"""
'null 1
Hill ll 1 !.
I'irr
Es
z
©
WWM
M
m
<jjg
ft
|gi
«
«
■
t hiii..... .iii ll
xcv
Hill
"111
miiiiiii
ii" 1 :;, n
"mm
Hi ml
Wtf
..mill
lift
SPhii
1
I iiiiim!
BBi
O
fiiliiw
ga
1
Sill
iigiliin
191
m
IlhiillliMlJ
rail
cxv
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
400
LMN
PIPES
■«E2*
m
'
LMN
.
m
p,pe Q Uaranteed


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand) ,
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers oh a specially
_ favorable Tariff of: « —
SILICIOUS ORES. containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc. v
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.'-^,
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
Read this Proof that ADAMAX ROOFING is “The Best that Money Can Buy.”
The West Australian Government invited tenders for Asphaltum Roofing for insulation purposes
on their Wyndham Freezing Works on the North-west Coast. Tenders were received from all
best-known makers and roofings were submitted to test, also to Government Analyst for chemical
analysis. The order was finally placed for ADAMAX ROOFING, together with Adamax Compound.
Tenders were again called for the Roofing, and a similar procedure followed. The order was again
placed for ADAMAX ROOFTNG. These Wyndham Works are estimated to cost £600,000.
Full particulars about ADAMAX ROOFING in Booklet, “The Adamax Series.” Send
for FREE Copv. WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street,
v . SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE— Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia
Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1912 .. £ 14,606 £14,606
June, 1913 .. 32,030 46,636
Profit.
Dec., 1913 . . 1,547 45,089
June, 1914 . . 5,093 36,996
Dec., 1914 . . 13,429 23,567
Reserves.
June, 1915 . . 25,789 2,222
Dee., 1915 . . 50,949 53,171
June, 1916 . . 93,898 147,069
Dec., 1916 .. 153,072 300,141
This bank, owned by the Commonwealth, has
no capital in the ordinary sense. Parlia-
ment has authorised the issue of £10,000,000
of guaranteed debentures; and the mere fact
of that authorisation has been enough. It
started off with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s own business; on the day the doors
were opened it thus received deposits of
nearly 24 millions. Various State Govern-
ments joined in; and already, before
ordinary banking had begun, it had formally
taken over the business of what were known
as the Post Office Savings Banks. A private
connection has since then been rapidly
established, both borrowing and lending, the
bank being particularly favored in connec-
tion with long-period loans reducible by in-
stalments. Also, the war helped : in fact, the
war has been responsible no doubt" for more
than half the figures. What a remarkable
growth it has been this table exhibits :
Liabilities.
Doc., 1914. Dec., 1915. Dec., 1916.
Deposits, etc.
(ordinary) .. £5,255,932 £15,659,715 £30,190,620
Deposits (savings) 6,078,392 8,186,130 10,809,074
Assets.
Coin and deposits 5,384,992 8,327,394 12,336,821
Oonnnonwealth notes 379,890 5,567,650 11,617,454
Public securities 3,292,209 7,103,410 10,752,101
Advances.. .. 2,178,478 2,726,986 6,261,898
Premises . . . . 173,576 331,558
Ordinary deposits include unspent balances
of Commonwealth loans; and a great deal of
that is hardly more than money left for safe
custody. For practical purposes, therefore,
as indicating the normal growth of the bank,
most of the figures on both sides of the
balance-sheet are worth very little. The two
most valuable lines, perhaps, relate to the
Savings-dcpartmeut deposits and the ad-
vances. Both show a very gratifying in-
crease. But included with the Savings
deposits there is certainly a considerable
amount of soldiers’ money, left for safe cus-
tody more than anything else; and the
advances probably include a good deal lent
to people who want temporary accommoda-
tion in order to make War Loan investments.
However, it all means profit; and profit
means capital for the benefit of the business
later on when normal conditions prevail.
The Life Insurance Co. of Australia :
Total Deficit,
Out- including
Nov., Income. Expenses. Claims, goings. Goodwill.
1912. . £10,989 £18,918 £3,715 £22,633 £19,644
Dee.,
1913.. 23,851 19,809 6,350 26,159 21,952
1914.. 33,412 23,951 7,655 31,606 20,146
1915.. 36.892 22.986 1.0,277 33,263 16,517
1916.. 40,172 21,651 8,061 30,312 6,657
The various departments contributed to the
year’s figures in this way :
income. Expenses. Claims.
Ordinary ..£22,686 £12,088 £1673
Industrial . . 5,350 5,283 445
Provident . . 10,399 3.417 5785
Accident .. 1,737 863 758
This is the first time the figures have been
thus separated. But even these figures don’t
express the real facts of the case. The direc-
tors are quite frank about it. They refer to
the accumulation of assets and say:
“Against this has to be placed the actuarial
liability under the policies, which has to be
determined by the co.’s actuary.” The first
valuation of liabilities is now being made ;
and later on in the year the co. will know
how much it ought to have accumulated
towards meeting claims, and by how much the
insurance fund is short of requirements. That
is to say, how much of the paid capital of
£44,000 lias been consumed in laying the
foundations of the business. In only one
particular is the report to shareholders open
to objection. After pointing out that the
excess of revenue over expenditure for the
year was £9860. the directors say: “The
debtor balance carried forward from last
year was £9517, and we are therefore in the
gratifying position of having restored the
whole of our original capital and showing
a surplus of £348.” But after the co. had
had its signboard up for a few months it
paid £7OOO for the business and goodwill of
the Provident, a little concern doing various
insurance side-lines; so that actually £7OOO
of the capital has still to be made good.
Deduct the £343 mentioned by the directors,
and you get the £6657 shown as the deficit
in the table. On the other hand, the co.
hasn’t followed the common but dubious
practice of reckoning any of its own busi-
ness-extension expenditure as an asset. All
its preliminary exes, have been charged up
as ordinary exes. This of course has seri-
ously affected the expense rate; but it was
the honest thing to do, and that and a few
other circumstances make this paper feel
kindly towards the L.C.A.
It is a proprietary office; or, if you like,
a co-operative one. That is to say, it is
going to share profits between the policy-
holders (who must have at least four-fifths)
and shareholders (who may take no more
than one-fifth). There is still a certain
amount of prejudice against any life office
which is not purely mutual; but it is hard
to see how any purely mutual office is to
get a start now unless it is backed by
philanthropists. As the experience of this
co. shows (and it had a good deal of push
behind it at the start), you can't start a
life office without money. In the first year
this office paid out £22,633 and collected
only £10,989 ; and that wouldn’t have been
possible, of course, without capital—a
mutual office, for instance, couldn’t have
done it. Thus with the great A.M.P.’s In-
dustrial Department: even that had to be
financed by the Ordinary Department. It
couldn’t have been established on a purely
mutual basis. What the law ought to see
to is that the policy-holder in a co-opera-
tive office gets something tangible in return
for the whack of the profits which the share-
holder is entitled to take. Profits (and con-
sequently good net results) in life insurance
come from one source when you get down to
bedrock —good management; good manage-
ment shown in (1) selection of risks; (21
selection of investments; (3) selection of ser-
vants. If a. man, having knowledge of the
people who are running this co., is prepared
to say : “I believe they can run a. life office
better than anybody else in the business,”
then there is no reason known to this paper
why he should take his insurance elsewhere.
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide) : —■
Writ- Added Nomi-
teu to Re- nal Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1964. .£12,935 5 p.c.=£12,500 £750 £31,558
1905.. 12,913 2! „ ~ 6,250 2,750 £3913 35,471
1906.. 17,370 5 ~ ~ 12,500 2,750 2120 37,591
1907.. 18,172 5 ~ ~ 12.500 2.750 2922 40,513
1908.. 24,135 5 ~ 12,500 6,103 5532 46,045
1909.. 17.551 5 „,, 12,500 5,051 ■ 46,045
1910.. 25,072 5 ~ ~ 12.500 12.572 46,045
1911.. 35,637 6-1 „ ~ 15,625 16,057 3955 50,000
1912.. 46,277 74 .. ~ 18.750 27,527 -- 50.000
1913.. 50,968 74.. ~ 18,750 32,218 - - 50,000
1914.. 55,953 10 „ „ 25,000 30,953 50,000
1915. . 50.114 10 ~ „ 25,000 25,114 50,000
1916.. 32,161 10 ~ ~ 25,000 4,750 2411 52,411
1917.. 22,348 61 „„ 15,625 4,750 1973 54,384
The directors say that “there lias been a
falling-off in the business of the co. within
this State owing to unfavorable climatic
conditions”; but that is only part of the
story. Six-o'clock closing arrived in S. Aus.
before it reached any other mainland State;
and “in consequence it has been necessary to
deal with statutory claims for reduction of
rents.” There is a tribunal appointed for
this and other purposes; but most cases
have been “amicably arranged.” On top of
six-o’clock closing S. Aus. has local option;
and while it is found practically impossible
to get a vote in favor of increase, gradually
the area in favor of reduction is being ex-
pended. At the general poll taken early in
1915 no less than 100,41 S votes out of
178,362 cast were in favor of six-o’clock
closing; and that very large majority doesn’t
give the Trade much hope of a reversal to
11-o’clock or even eight-o’clock closing after
the war. The woman vote in S. Aus. is
exceptionally strong, not only so far as num-
bers are concerned; but also as to its
activity. For instance, whereas at the last
Senate elections in N. S. Wales only 582 out
of every 1000 women on the rolls voted, In
S. Australia the poll was 766 out of every
1000, which is a considerably larger propor-
tion than of men voters in the Ma State.
Now, the woman vote may be accepted as
an anti-liquor vote; and that doesn’t
improve the outlook for the S. Aus. Brewing
Co.
But, legislation or no legislation, Aus-
tralia is a beer-drinking country, and, unless
absolute prohibition becomes law, will pro-
bably continue so. We annually get through
between 13 and 14 gallons per head of the
population, and there has been no reduction
during the last few years—down to 1914-5,
anyway;, there are no later figures. The
climate has most to do with it; and add to
that the fact that so much of our work is
toilsome. There has been some slowing-
down in late years; but even now the aver-
age Australian works hard enough to sweat ;
and in that sweat lies the brewing co.'s
best hope. The trade ivon’t be what it was
some years ago. Then no money was made
more easily and with less intelligence. But
profits on capital actually invested will be
from moderate to good, and will be all the
more likely to remain so because the con-
tinual attacks and threats will keep compe-
tition out of the business. Still, on account
of those attacks and threats, brewery invest-
ments are not to be recommended to people
who don’t want to be worried. Moreover, in
these days when the majority insists that it
has the right to do almost anything it
pleases with the minority, there is no tell-
ing what may happen to the trade. Abso-
lute prohibition, for instance.
Fortunately this co. had a good run of
exceptional seasons; and it was thus able to
provide for a depreciation of assets which
had been threatening for years. In addition
to the £54,354 of reserves mentioned in the
table there is a Freehold Depreciation Fund
of £58,000; and mainly through the accumu-
lation of this reserve it has lately been possi-
ble to pay off £50,000 of 5 p.c. debentures,
reducing the old-standing debt on that
account to £150,000. The share capital is
£250.000; the liabilities apart from deben-
tures, £43,524; the fixed assets (including
an unspecified amount for goodwill),
£449,151; and the floating assets (including
stock), £121,323.
ir * * *
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1907.. £25,350 20 p.c. = £21,000 £4,350 £81,043
1908.. 25,223 20 „ „ 21,000 4,223 85,206
1909.. 25,572 20 „ „ 21,000 4,572 89,838
1910.. 27,215 20 „ ~ 21,000 6,215 90,053
1911.. 24,701 20 ~ „ 21.000 3,701 99,754
1912.. 24,630 20 .. ~ 21,000 3,630 103,384
Premiums on new shares .. 11,111 114,495
1913.. 22,516 111 p.c. 14.138 8,378 122,873
1914.. 25,114 124 „ „ 17,457 7,657 130,530
1915.. 28,967 124,, „ 17,495 6,472 137,002
C 133.333 transferred to capital .. 3.009
1916.. 25,426 6 p.c. = 16,887 / 9 000 5 669
Written off, £6,539 ( AUUU O,OOJ
1917.. 22,630 6 p.e. = 16,797/ _ r , c.rm
Written off, £ 5,833 f
That was a tidy table to start with; but
it isn’t so any longer. The directors have
adopted a new system of presenting the
accounts. The whole of the unappropriated
net profits as at February, 191(5, were trans-
ferred to a Rest account, out of which it
was proposed to pay taxes. How much of
that reserve was required for the purpose
this paper doesn’t know ; but £2OOO has been
re-transferred to an equalisation of dividend
fund. For the past year the unappropri-
ated balance (after transferring £2OOO to
suspense accounts) is £,‘>B33; and that also
goes to Rest account. If some part of this
is presently available as profit, then the net
profit for the year is greater than the
£1(5,797 shown above. This certainly can be
said in defence of the awkward system
adopted—-that, owing to the struggles of
political parties, managers of cos. like this
don’t even now know what taxes they will
have to pay out of profits made since the
war started. That the thing should be hung
up so long is unbusiness-like and embarrass-
ing.
The G p.c. div. is really better than that
because the capital was doubled a couple of
years ago by the issue of bonus shares. But
though the co. has kept in the business
nearly £50,000 of profits during the past 10
years, besides getting in the same amount of
capital, net profits are less now than they
were 10 years ago. That wouldn’t look well
in any circumstances; it looks almost bad
when it is remembered that Queensland has
lately been enjoying a bogus prosperity.
What is the matter? High prices are pro-
bably doing this co. no good. Australia is
being more extravagant at this moment per-
haps than it ever was before; but the ex-
travagance is not in liquor, curiously
enough. We are shutting up pubs at an
early hour, on the pretext that we mustn’t
waste money ; and we are wasting far more
money on other goods than we are saving in
liquor. How it will be in the future The
Bulletin doesn’t know; but lavish war and
other expenditure Is certainly going to be
followed by a reckoning ; and when the Devil
feels sick the devil a saint would be. In the
long run, the Australian brewery trade will
probably (unless prohibition outs it alto-
gether) make solid profits; but for a few
years after the war it will probably not do
at all well. Further, in Queensland the
trade is less definitely parcelled out than it
is down south. A good deal of it is still to
be Scrambled for.
The next little table shows Perkins -and
Co.’s principal movements since 1910: —
1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities. . . . £25,622 £69,772 £81,442 £85,088
Freeholds, plant, etc. 108,957 172,186 166,950 179,302
Stocks . . . . 41,738 68,245 58,472 74,053
Loans, book debts,
etc 71,364 99,346 131,746 107,713
Cash balances .. 10,118 13,026 8,547 8,588
Capital is £266,667; and freeholds, plant,
etc., represent £179.302 of it. This lot
would probably be worth much less than
that if Cold Tea had a real innings in
Queensland. So Perkins’s (like most other
breweries) can’t be regarded as a gilt-
edged investment—scarcely nowadays even
silver-edged. It probably will make very
good profits, as many other threatened in-
dustries do; but a large proportion of its
assets have comparatively little value apart
from the business as a going concern, and
there is a big body of public opinion which
wants to stop it from being a going concern.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative So-
ciety of N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Dividend (10 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (114 p.c.). serves. serves.
July, 1910.. £10,272 £9,763 £509 £31,755
Jan., 1911 . . 12,082 10,477 1605 33,360
July, 1911.. 10,911 10,108 803 34,163
Jan., 1912 . . 12,824 11,383 1441 35,604
July, 1912.. 10,470 11,138 34,936
(10 p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1913.. 11,170 11,222 34,884
Premiums on new shares, £13,899 48,783
July, 1913 . . 10,973 10,745 228 49,011
Jan., 1914.. 12,777 12,336 441 49,452
July, 1914.. 11,945 11,844 101 49,553
Jan., 1915 .. 11,701 12,034 49,220
Julv, 1915.. 11,476 11,350 126 49,346
Jan., 1916 . . 10,817 10,971 49,192
Unclaimed divs. transferred to
Reserve Fund, £2OOO . . 51,192
July, 1916 . . 9,915 10,142 50,965
Jan., 1917.. 11,143 11,223 50.885
For the third half-year in succession the
dividend amounts to more than the profit,
and the reserves have to be dug into to
make up the shortage. The figures would
be still worse for the past half-year, too, if
the usual provision were made for employees’
bonuses. There is, however, no mention of
a bonus in the present report; appar-
ently it has been dropped because of the
higher wages now paid under awards, llow
expenses have moved up this next com-
parison shows: —•
Gross
Cash Profit Work- Proportion
lie- on Sales, ing Ex- Expenses to
ceipts. etc. penses. Receipts.
Jan., 1900.. £67,522 £15,997 £10,158 15.0 p.c
Jan., 1905. . 98,408 24,165 14,974 15.2 „
.Tan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15.9 „
Jan., 1914.. 184,101 49,658 34,568 18.7 „
Jan., 1915.. 178,027 48,077 34,024 19.1 „
July, 1915.. 176.818 47,925 34,190 19.3 „
Jan., 1916.. 185,171 47,817 34,814 18.8 „
July, 1916.. 182,070 48,773 36,318 19.9 „
Jan., 1917.. 197,603 53,059 40,175 20.3 „
Almost the whole increase in exes, in recent
years has been in the item “Wages and
salaries.” These were £19,647 in the half-
year to the end of January, 1915, or 11.06
p.c. of the cash takings, as compared with
£23,962, or 12.12 p.c., in the past half-year.
Prices are at present very high, and when
they fall it is doubtful whether exes, will
fall at the same rate; hence it seems highly
probable that exes, may presently reach 22
p.c. or more of cash takings, unless econo-
mies can be effected. The 2s. in the £ bonus
on cash purchases appears, therefore, to be
insecure.
To keep the shelves filled at present high
prices the co. has had to go to the bank for
assistance. Two years ago it owed £32,957;
it now owes £55,540. The extra money is
all represented by stock, which is valued
at £88,917. Share capital is only £27.783;
add reserves, and the total of shareholders’
funds is £78,665. That the co. can hold
this stock and enjoy so fine a turnover on
such comparatively small resources is due
to two things: cash trading and the fact
that the co. has nothing invested in pre-
mises. apart from a few thousands spent on
leaseholds. Book debts, though more than
usual, are still under £12.000. and that is
no more than about 10 days’ trading.
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne),
which in 1907 succeeded the Freehold Assets
Realisation Co., whose job was to act as
undertaker to the Freehold Investment and
Banking Co.: —•
Reserves.
Taken over from old co. .. £14,119
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves.
Jan., 1908 ..£1,484 Nil £1484 15,603
Written off reserve?, £2957 .. 12,646
Dec., 1908 .. 6,540 7 p.c. = £5197 1343 13,989
Dec., 1909 .. 7,284 8 ~ ~ 5939 1345 15,334
Dec., 1910 .. 11,327 101 „ ~ 7795 3532 18,866
Dec., 1911 .. 8,569 9 „ „ 6682 1887 20,753
Dec., 1912 .. 8,319 9 „ ~ 6682 1637 22,390
Dec., 1913 .. 8,302 9 ~ ~ 6682 1620 24,010
Dec., 1914 . . 9,040 9 „ ~ 6682 2358 26.368
Dec., 1915 . . 6,899 9 ~ „ 6682 217 26,585
Dec., 1916 . . 6,979 9 „ „ 6682 297 26,882
This co. is realisin'? on the wrecks of the
boom ; and a very profitable business it has
been. The knack of the knacker lies in
knowing when to buy and when to sell.
Mostly these “wreck” cos. bought in when
valuations were near the bottom; then a
period of inflation arrived, largely based on
Government borrowing, and the properties
were sold, mostly on terms, at very large
advances. In addition to the profits shown
in the table, this co. expects to get £33,640
of profit out of transactions not yet com-
pleted. The growth of this account is.
among other things, shown in the next table:
1908. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities £89,954 £102,659 £101,826
Realisation suspense account 7,460 22,442 33.640
Propertv 76,438 60,378 30.808
Shares in other cos. . . 6,256 113,225 114,338
Balances owing . . . . 58,440 29,292 57,312
Other assets . . . . 46,589 26,748 37,848


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even the highest speeds.
SPECIAL FEATURES:-
cx
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing oyer.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain or the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia:—
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STBEET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Traf ford Park, Manchester, England.
We agree with the secretary of the Automobile;
Club of Australia, and think that motor-cars in
Australia are a necessity. Every motor-car owner,
however, should practise economy during- the war by
charging his own lighting and ignition batteries at
home. This can be very simply done by installing
a “Tung-ar Rectifier,” which can be obtained from
the Australian General Electric Co., Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney; corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne, who guarantee the success of
every installation—call or write for particulars.
— A DVT.
* * * *■
A New Invention. —One of the most interesting-
and useful of all exhibits seen at the recent
Easter Show was an All-Steel Fence, designed and
made in Australia by the Rawson, Moody Mfg. Co.,
34.3 Kent Street, Sydney. This new fence, which is
built with powerful steel posts and wire, saves 80 per
cent, in labor, weighs only one-fifth the weight, and
will last a lifetime, as compared with the present-
day method of wooden fences, that decay so quickly.
All interested in fencing should see this fence, as it
will save money; .it costs only 12s. fid. to 15s. pci-
chain complete. A fence is on view at the above
address, or an illustrated catalogue will be sent on
request,— Advt.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department.
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours,
it is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking "or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Win. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet apd Ilecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the-
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe has won the approval of all
the State Governments. This is demonstrated by
the many orders we have received from them.
Descriptive Catalogue free upon application. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., contractors to
all State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(head office). Factories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W. :
Footscray, Yic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* » * *
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd., 50 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for COO volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/10 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking-
and wet-mining.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* » * *
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping-
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tiibes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being- done away
with. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Selby & Co;, Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
aaeßoanto
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tk ' 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital.. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
ACENTS WANTED,
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sj’dney,
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
'pHE Walshaw' Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Mortobel
Samaonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The weak feature is “Shares in other cos..
£114.338” —an amount in excess of the share
capital (£74,245). Obviously until one
knows the position of those cos. one doesn't
know much about the position of this co.
By far the biggest holding is in the Land
Mortgage Bank of Victoria: this co. in 1912
bought 140,500 of the 145.770 live shares in
that distressful concern. These shares are
now paid up to 11s. 6d. apiece ; and if the
advances, balances owing, etc., are worth
book value, the assets are worth 16s. per
share —say, £llO,OOO for the Freehold Assets
Co.’s interest. That, however, seems to be an
outside valuation. But that is not the co.’s
only holding; though what else there is has
not been disclosed
GouLBUiiN Gas Co. (Goulburn. N.S.W.) :
. To Be- IJe-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dee., 1909.. £872 15 p.c. = £750 £122 £10,858
June, 1910.. 1090 15 „ „ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 „ „ 750 10,855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 „ „ 750 331 11,180
Dec., 1911.. 851 15 „ „ 750 101 11,287
June, 1912.. 1174 15 „ „ 750 424 11,711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982. . .. 3,729
Dee., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3,838
June, 1913.. 734 S „ „ 400 334 4,172
Dec., 1913.. 754 8 „ „ 400 354 4,526
June, 1914.. 1139 8 „ „ 400 739 5,265
Dec., 1914.. 611 8 „ „ 400 211 5,476
June, 1915.. 627 8 ~ ~ 400 227 5,7(13
Dec., 1915.. 763 8 ~ ~ 400 363 6,066
June, 1916.. 551 8 „ „ 400 151 6,217
Dec., 1916.. 1003 8 „ ~ 400 003 6,820
The £OO3 of surplus profit for the last half-
year includes £5OO added to plant renewal
account, and that amount probably ought to
be written off against depreciation. Even
so, the co. is holding its own unexpectedly
well in the face of increased costs and keen
electric competition, and in the past .12
months has increased its surplus of liquid
and semi-liquid assets from £4lOO to £4BOO.
Newcastle-Wallsen d Coal Co. (N. S.
Wales) :
To Re- lle-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1909. . £10,370 20p.c. = £lO,OOO £370 £52,384
Dec., 1909.. 4,090 10 „„ 5,000 51,474
June, 1910.. 5,115 10 „„ 5,000 115 51,589
Dec., 1910.. 10,562 20 „ 10,000 562 52,151
June, 1911.. 4,163 10 „„ 5,000 51,314
Dec., 1911.. 5,694 10 ~ ~ 5,000 694 52,008
June, 1912.. 5,329 10 „„ 5,000 329 52.337
Dec., 1912.. 5,771 10 „„ 5,000 771 53,108
June, 1913.. 7,660 15 ~ ~ 7,500 160 53,268
Dec., 1913.. 10,996 20 ~ ~ 10,000 996 54,264
Assets written up and £lOO,OOO
transferred to capital. . .. 63,966
June, 1914.. 10,676 10p.c.= 10,000 676 64,642
Dec., 1914.. 10,105 10 „ „ 10,000 105 64,747
June,.1915.. 2,400 5 „ „ 5,000 62,147
Dec., 1915.. 4,970 5„ „ 5,000 62,117
June, 1916.. 4,686 5 „ „ 5,000 61,803
Dec., 1916.. 5,355 5„ ~ 5,000 355 62,158
The Newcastle-Wallsend Co. is built and
run on old lines, which means that the share-
holders are expected to trust the directors,
and the public doesn’t count. Profits there-
fore are disclosed “after making provision
for depreciation, etc.,” and whether that
provision is much or little nobody outside the
inner circle is permitted to know. This
time, £5OOO being required to pay the divi-
dend, the disclosed profits are £5OOO exactly;
not a penny more or less. The odd £355 is
an addition to the Insurance Fund. The
co., like most of those at Newcastle, has
secured a West Maitland area, and this is
now being made into the Pelton colliery.
A good deal of money is being spent there ;
nevertheless in the past 12 months the co.’s
net liquid assets, notwithstanding the dis-
turbance of the foreign coal trade, have
been reduced only from £30,435 to £27,184.
The rest of the expenditure (how much this
paper doesn’t know) lias been provided
either out of undisclosed profits on the coal
business or by the sale of scraps of the co.’s
d’ery fine freehold property at Newcastle.
* * * *
The discovery and re-discovery of the big
molybdenite show at Mount Tennyson, near
Bathurst, has its romance. Twenty years
back an old prospector called Wade hit upon
the mineral while hunting for wages. His
samples sent to Sydney for assay showed the
stuff to be all right, but it was said to be of
no commercial value. Neither was it —to us
—at the time. So that ended the matter
for a while. A few years later, Kirk, a pal
of. Wade, recited to the latter some news-
paper article about the value of the mineral.
The pair got busy right away, and after a
hit of scratching landed on the wild spot
from which the earlier samples were taken.
Kirk and Wade later became the main items
in one of the companies recently absorbed by
the Mammoth, which now dominates the
field. Wade has since passed in his pick.
The Palmer (N.Q.) is only sleeping. Den-
ham, from his claim, the Bee, at Kipling’s
Crossing, recently put through 44 tons for
470 z. gold—over £4O per ton. During last
year 65 tons were crushed for 3080 z., an
average of £2O 2s. 6d. per ton. There is
only an odd fossieker at work now on the
old field; yet last year 2280 z. of alluvial
were won. Not bad, all things considered.
Half a dozen tributors in the Enterprise, a
molybdenite mine at Wolfram Gamp (N.Q.),
are on a very good wicket, but it will only-
last another few weeks, when their term
expires. At present they are getting a ton
and a half of clean metal a week, and if
the patch lasts will clear another thousand
a man in the next couole of months.
The old Minnie Moxharn (N.Q.), in spite
of many difficulties, seems as if it was going
to make good. East crushing of 380 tons
gave 3940 z. gold, and it took only four weeks
to get. The reef is a fair size and improv-
ing in width. The gold is very good, worth
over £8 395. an oz.
Mount Petersen, which on its first crush-
ings even diverted the attention of the
Cairns < 0.1 sugar cockies from the Dickson
award, has not fulfilled its brilliant promise.
It has for 12 months past averaged only a
little over £2 per ton. And the tonnage is
nothing to write home about.
* * * *
The March clean-up (103 tons) at Lode
Hill (Q.) must have been decidedly payable,
for there is a heap of difference between
having tin at £2.16 and at £l75 —the latter the
value when things were at their worst at the
mine. No. 1 face is now in use again, its
output of 7| tons beating that from No. 2
in February. No. 2, on the other hand, failed
to yield well, 21 tons being the wash-up
from 3000 cub. yards.
“Poor and struggling” is how Dick
Hamilton, elected for the 20th consecutive
time president of the Westralian Chamber
of Mines, described the gold industry of
that State in his address from the chair at
the annual grumble. Dividends distributed
last year (£632,853) were down £159,434
compared with the previous year, and of
that distribution £600,000 was paid by six
cos. and the balance by another live. Not
one other of the many cos. working in the
State was able to declare a dividend, and
though some were working at a very small
margin of profit, most of them were showing
a loss. In the last 13 years the gold produc-
tion has fallen by nearly one-half, and the
tonnage has also come down with a thud.
Enormously enhanced cost of supplies and
increased working expenses compelled the
mineowners to draw to an undue extent on
their reserves of richer ore in order to keep
up appearances, and in doing this they dis-
counted the future. To tide over a period of
exceptional adversity and stress some have
ceased development almost entirely, and if
the war continues much longer some mines
will have to close down altogether. While
the tonnage treated has shrunk, costs last
year increased 2s. 6d. per ton. These facts
and figures, Hamilton contends, clearly show
that gold-mining in the West is much over-
burdened, and any increase on the present
costly conditions of working would break
the back of the industry.
The Edna May Consolidated school looked
for a 25dwt. crushing from the 250-ton lot
of Middle reef stone. What they got was
12idwt., with 7dwt. in the sands. That is
good enough if the reef is all right, for the
average is better than that of Edna Central;
but there is a fly in the ointment somewhere,
or there would not have been such a get-out
as took place after the figures were known.
The next anxiety will be over a crushing of
250 tons from the new make of stone, lying-
closer to the Central boundary. This big
formation is said to have sampled up to
15dwt. If that average isn’t got, then the
best man should be called in to do a bit of
independent sampling, to measure up ore
reserves, and to see how values really stand.
The trouble over the Middle reef is that it
is broken, and isn’t as far from the green-
stone as it might be. Still it is better placed
in that respect than the big reef. All the
talk of a double-barrelled horseshoe forma-
tion is piffle, as developments stand.
Local holders of Edna May Junctions
had a roll-up in Perth the other day and
urged the Board to acquire the Great
Unknown, the co.’s Marda option, to
appoint a local director and to issue 35,000
new shares. An optimistic crowd !
At the forthcoming Westralian mining-
conference the Government is to be asked:
(1) to vote annually for the assistance of
prospecting and mining a sum equal to that
granted the agricultural industry; (2) to
nationalise the Goldfields Water Scheme;
and (3) to reduce or abolish lease rents
until it can be shown that the ground is be-
ing worked at a profit. The establishment of
mining boards to expend the money set
aside for mining and prospecting is urged
by most of the leaseholders’ associations;
and it is also suggested that they should
organise State prospecting parties and con-
trol Government batteries. The object of
nationalising the water scheme is to make
it a direct charge on the State, the whole
of which benefits indirectly through gold-
mining. The reduction of the charges, it is
claimed, would enable small low-grade shows
to use water that they cannot now afford.
Though disappointed and hard-up, Nulla-
gine Mining Co. (W.A.) is not downhearted.
Sluicing was started in the neck of the
valley, but owing to the number of rocks
the quantity of stuff treated was far below
the estimated capacity of the plant, and
operations were suspended until a report can
be got from a Melbourne expert. If his
opinion is favorable work will be resumed
at an early date. Meantime the Board is
bringing shareholders together to agree to
an assessment of 2s. (id. per share, (Jd. of
which is to be called up right away. The
first 3400 yards sluiced yielded 2s. Mod. per
yard, or |d. above the original estimate,
while the last week’s work averaged 4s. 6d.,
indicating improvement as the workings
approached the centre of the valley. Perth
has been badly hit by the slump in the mar-
ket, large and small parcels of shares having-
been unloaded on local speculators by Mel-
bourne at 10s. and upwards.
Lake View and Oroya Exploration (W.A.)
has now secured a dredging proposition in
Hokitiki (M.L.), and C. 11. Wray, for
years the co.’s chief sampler and option
seeker in the West, is to inspect. The co.’s
only remaining interest in the West now is
the Yuanmi, about which some unfavorable
reports and rumors of shutting down have
just been officially ‘denied.
* * * *
Depressing accounts have reached this
paper regarding the condition of Rivenna
South (W.A..). According to one, the co.
has expended upwards of £20,000, and, apart
from plant, has only about 3000 tons of ore
of a value not calculated to yield much
profit. The reef in the north workings is
described as small and much disturbed. About
6000 tons of 60s. ore developed when the
mine was purchased is said to be still there,
but although the shoot which contains this
reserve looks well, too much money will have
to be spent in following the gold owing to
the underlay of the enrichment. Instead of
stripping the south shaft, the co. may have
done better if it had sunk a new one to cut
the shoot heading rapidly to the south.
• « « «
The Magnet (Tas.) is spending £lO,OOO
on its new dam and hydro-electric plant, the
latter bought from the Cassilis (Vic.). Ten
thousand is a pretty big bill for a little con-
cern with a nominal capital of £5OOO to
face: but the increase in reserves from
33,45 S tons in 1016 to 41,957 tons in 1917
prompted the directors to secure a better
equipment. The Magnet is mining galena
at 800 ft., which is the deepest for silver-
lead in Tasmania. The output of crudes
last half-year was 2045 tons—far too little
compared with the reserves. The Magnet
produces a concentrate rich in silver, but
most of the profit has come from consign-
ments of high-grade crudes to Cockle Creek.
# * * *
Woodroffe, of the North Mount Farrell
(Tas.), has estimated his reserves. Includ-
ing “probable” ore he figures on 65,000 tons,
which means three years’ work at the pre-
sent rate of extraction. There are. besides,
35,000 tons of “possible” or quite-likely ore.
All this is above the No. 4 (270 ft.) level,
the present bottom working: and that cer-
tainly isn’t the bottom of the mine.
* * * *
Hard luck sticks to the South German,
Maldon (Vic.), as the shoot of stone out of
which the tributors did well above the
1750 ft. level is still to be found at the level
itself. What a mine’s reputation plus the
no-liability system will do in Victoria is
proved by the pushing out of this level no
less than 1233 ft. At last mixed stuff is in
the face, and a whisper goes round that the
long-expected shoot may be at hand in the
form of a make of stone that seems to be
coming in on the west wall. But so many
have got stranded in South German that it
will take more than mere looks to bring in a
fresh string of backers.
* * * *
Cohen’s Long Tunnel (Vic.) is on the job
again with a wholesome display of repent-
ance for the errors of the past. Not an assay
of over lOdwt. is reported, which is as it
should be. The best stone is said to be show-
ing in a winze from the south tunnel, but if
loz. stuff is got there old Walhalla tradi-
tions will have to be scrapped. The battery
is to talk on this point as well as about
stone from north of Goodwin’s shaft and at
Kelly’s Hill, so that all those who button-
hole little Carroll will soon know whether
they have a hope of recovering the cash put
into the old mine.
Palfreyman’s Ronpibon (Malay) shares
are creeping up to the 20s. mark, the last
fillip being due to the fact that Eric Moore
had gathered in another block of likely-look-
ing country. Now that the crescendo move-
ment is on, the bears have scuttled into
their lairs; but they still grunt out that the
clay is thick, the stones many and heavy,
and the dredging deep. Till returns arrive,
the market is living on Captain Teddy
Miles’s optimism, a belief in Palfreyman’s
luck, and the knowledge that the Deebook
plant will soon be giving the ground a busi-
ness start.
* * * *
The position of South Aus. in respect of
minerals is curious. In all its wide expanse
it cannot find decent coal, and its gold,
though widely scattered, is just a “color.”
So it did well to top the million for minerals
in 1915, and last year’s record total of
£1,200,000 was due simply to the rise in
copper - , sold to the British Government under
contract at £lOO a ton. Figures (in thou-
sands) : Copper, 822; ironstone (mostly
flux), 200; salt, 83. Also ran, gold, 33;
limestone flux, and gypsum. Left at the
post, silver Coal, non-starter.
* * * »
Mount Morgan is giving the Hancock jig
a trial —illustrating what was said the other
day that most of them can now learn .some-
thing' from the once-laughed-at Wallaroo and
Moonta.


Heelings
Est I8!8.
Co
en
ert
BHEERIK6V
tiSiSffl
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
„ , e fU
ai& ifie Gaf&cfr'
Qxpi&ssian
Good,
■o
PAULINE et CIE
Announce that on and after March 5, 1917,
they will hold their Autumn and Winter Show
of Model Hats, Frocks, Coats and Skirts, etc.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
Appointments made by letter or telephone if
desired. City 10167.
W&Qr j
(jOssard
U CORNETS
ThqyLace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
6US6QV
Sliaia-Hi
***
98MCS 1879
THE HANDY POCKET BOTTLE
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY-SINCE 1679
CONTENTS ABOUT REPUTED QUART
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydnf.y, April 16, 1917.
My Dkar Arini, —
A warm day at Randwick —after the flood
—brought out a motley display of millinery.
For some obscure reason, or want of it, even
ordinary tame women will plunge in freak
headgear. Hats like trencher-boards, made
of black velvet, each tipping a tassel over one
side, and very small, soft-crowned caps with
a similar appendage, had a bizarre appear-
ance.
One of the Macarthur Onslow girls, in
dove-grey, wore a velvet cap that was twin
cousin to grandpa’s smoking-room millinery.
But the lass is young and fair, and can stand
the new craze. Mrs. George Sly’s headgear
(boots and hats are this season’s challenge)
was a picturesque affair of the romantic tri-
corn type in which Julius Knight (loud
applause) flicked a lace handkerchief as the
Scarlet Pimpernel. The Jack Campbell clan,
the Jim McMasters (Mrs. Jim very
smart in magpie turnout), Mrs. 11. Rouse (a
dashing shade of green), Enid Bayley (a
quiet tailor-made), and Irene King, one of
Sydney’s pretty girls—all held their own.
The Bayley Macarthur twin —Phyllis—
was emblazoned in pearl buttons —a fancy
of the moment. Mrs. ’Enery ’Awkins used
to favor the same trimmings on a bank holi-
day. The buttons must be large; then they
glisten like oyster patches on the autumn
coat. In a few weeks the owners will prob-
ably lease them for some war fund.
This race raeeeting aired the occasional
polonaise. But you have to be a willow
wand, like Mrs. Geoff. Fairfax, to do justice
to the puffy garment. Old-soldier John
Stanley was chaperoned by a lady armed
with a heavy black walking-stick. This
weapon is in favor with the very Smart
Setter, who switches the air in gentlemanly
fashion as she stalks her lion.
Mrs. Hugh Gordon, a dashing young
matron who generally moves in the same
orbit as Mrs. Henry Osborne, was one of
the star dress-turns this autumn meeting.
On Saturday she got a gasp of admiration
for a wonderful cream rig-out. Plush, for
years relegated to the upholstery depart-
ment, was the grand climax to the silk and
dainty fluff.
A new craze —a merely minor atrocity—
is added to the fur department. It hangs
like a doormat over the lady’s shoulders,
and meets in front with a thin connecting
line of pelt. Native women sling their
coffee-colored babies in mats of this other-
wise useless shape. It means a good har-
vest of lung trouble; for the heavy pneu-;
monia fur-mat warms up the wearer’s back
to any degree you like to mention, while
throat and chest are bare except for a wisp
of tulle.
Boots, roughly valued at £3 or so, are fav-
ored by Win-the-War women, who are not
letting another thing concern them. The
boot de luxe does not come to the knees —it
leaves off an inch or two below.
Fluting, as in the ancient mid-Victorian
picture fashion, is going to be the Waterloo
of the little dressmaker this winter. Only
a master-cutter can make these flat and
perfect folds on coat and skirt. Mrs. Pudu-
kota, with her Rajah in attendance, got
round the last race meet in a fawn turn-out
that was the last sigh in fluted back. A
toque the size of an Easter bun, with about
three inches of fur-edged veil, was the finish.
Of course queer stories were bound to
come this way about the I’udukotas; and
the yarn goes that there is a lot of discon-
tent in consequence of the Rajah’s frequent
absences from his rather frowsy little
principality. Lately a Tamil placard or
memorial was circulated, which started off
in this interesting way:—
The amount of immorality that is rampant here
in Pudukota, the land of charity, is something
appalling. The affairs of some members of the
Royal [Rajah’s] .family that are the creatures of the
Dewan are topsyturvy.
And, after details have been gone into, the
Rajah is implored to take notice.
The trouble appears to be that the Rajah
has never concerned himself very much in
the affairs of his little State, and has left,
the direction to his brother, the Dewan,
who, to say the least of it, doesn’t appear
to be popular. And least popular, perhaps,
among the big family of which these two
are the heads. The family, by the way, is
said to be genuinely anxious that the Ranee
—she was Molly Fink, you remember —-
should continue to exercise sway over the
Rajah. Here and there, however, the lady
is alleged to find those who decline to
accept her as Ranee —in spite of a not very
pleasant Brahmin ceremony through which
she passed—and among such she is only and
simply a plain “Mrs.”
The Indian story, by the way, is that
though the Rajah’s official fortune may be
£200,000, he has personal control of no
more than about £12.000 a year.
The Stricklands are going cockying. No,
not at the back of Wyalong, where the re-
turned soldier is invited to wilt, but some-
where in England, and I don’t think it’s
Hyde Park, either. To get the right atmo-
sphere his Ex. went last week to Cockle
Creek, with a party of down-for-tlie-Show
hayseeds, and saw how the Sulphide Corpora-
tion makes the chemical stuff that (if the
farmer is lucky) adds six or eight bushels
to his wheat crop. The Gibbs-Bright firm,
the managing agent for the Sulphide Cor-
poration in Australia, was the host, and
Alfred Meeks, the firm’s senior partner in
Sydney, took the head of the table at the
inevitable luncheon.
Ida Itentoul, whose black-and-white draw-
ings are brimful of quaint originality, sliqws
her wares at Anthony Horderns’ gallery
this week and next. The Cullen lady
was booked to open the show. Ida, by the
way, is now Mrs. Outhwaite. Her precoci-
ous pencil gdt busy when she was 13. Since
then it has had a large family of gnomes
and fairies.
When Engineer-Commander Denson, of
11.M.A.5. Rattlesnake (d’you remember
Brierly’s painting?), was transferred to the
Grand Fleet, his wife and a couple of
youngsters had to follow. They got to Fre-
mantle just as the edict banishing Eve. from
the ocean-going steamers came out. Tossed
ashore they tried to get to S’Afriea. Actu-
ally they reached Durban; but there they
were put ashore again—not wanted on the
voyage. Then a warship took the lonely
little woman and her kiddies as far as Cape
Town. Ashore again. Then somebody or
other contrived to bundle them aboard a
boat for London. Even Ethel Turner’s
Wonder Child would sigh for the adventures
of these juvenile Densons in the big war.
One of the Braidwood Maddrell family.
Charles, was responsible for his own tragic
end the other day. Three generations of
Maddrells have lived in the big stone home-
stead —a reliable witness says the walls are
2ft. thick —built by assigned labor in the long
ago. To all the countryside the genial,
easy-going man was still “Master Charles,”
just as he was 50 years back. He remained
a bachelor till a year ago ; if he had married
25 years earlier everything might have been
different. “Master Charles” liked to just
drop in to pass the time of day with old
friends in the farms that dot the landscape.
And when he wasn’t just dropping in he
could be happiest overhauling his motor.
There was no happier man than “Master
Charles” beaming through grease and petrol,
while his big machine showed its bared
fangs.
If the Recruiting Committee listens to
sage counsel, it will charge an entrance fee
for its Anzac-night concert in the Town
Hall. Otherwise there will be a free fight
outside —unless, perhaps, it announces before-
hand that there will be a few of. the inter-
minable dreary speeches which this commit-
tee considers appropriate for all occasions.
Gruffer is going to down-tools in the
Society of Artists’ Studio, and pack up for
the open country beyond Barraba. Miss
Walker will take up his class-work in the
Queen Victoria Markets gallery. Gruner,
with a passion for the outdoor life, means
to paint some, of the real Australia for
months to come.
One garden fete is twin-brother to another,
and it is chiefly a matter of .loot when the
lady pirates get busy. The wealthy 20th
Battalion had its big afternoon in the
grounds of Ascham. Lady Helen Ferguson,
in deep cornflower-blue, opened the affair,
with a bristling background of boy scouts.
The color-sergeant of these useful infants,
hung with symbols of his rank, was a decora-
tive feature of the landscape. Holly from
the Bowral district, a display of nuts that
would have charmed our poor relations at
the Zoo, and stalls that included Mrs. Pudu-
kota, with a pearl necklet worth a begum’s
ransom, decked the leafy garden. Justice
Ferguson was lured in; and in the hive
were Mrs. Alex. Gordon; Mrs. Tom Rolin,
in picturesque black; a fair-haired bride,
Mrs. Tim Lamrock ; Mrs. W. F. Brennan, a
hefty worker for comforts funds; Mrs.
Langtree, Mrs. Alfred Nathan, and Prof.
MacCallum.
Captain Glossop, the commander of the
history-making Sydney, will take over Hen-
derson’s old comfortable Garden Island job
with the limelight full on his epaulettes.
Through his cruiser Glossop is sure of honor-
able mention in Australian history-books of
the future; and meantime the Best People
will lure him to tea and feed him with buns.
The ex-skipper of the Sydney was first on
the Australian station as a middy on the
old Orlando, when she was the flagship
nearly 30 years ago. In ’B9 he was on board
the Calliope when she made her famous
dash out of Apia Harbor, and later was
commander for a time of the little Lizard.
•The Australian Mining Corps Comforts
Fund has temporarily lost its president —
Mrs. David, who is somewhere at the other
side of the submarines. But the committee
takes no spell on that account. At present
its members are working for a show to help
their empty lockers. There’s to be a good
programme at the Railway Institute on Fri-
day evening, April 20. Tickets at Paling's.
“Rosna’s” line from London: —
The widow of Justice “Dick” O’Connor, who is
mourning two nice boys killed in action, has gone
to the South of France for the winter. On the way
she was suddenly taken ill with appendicitis and had
to be removed to one of the military hospitals at
Ilarvre, where she was cared for till she could con-
tinue the journey to Beaulieu.
In this photo, by Judith Fletcher, you,
get a characteristic picture of S’Australian
artist Heysen. It is the plain, unvarnished
portrait of a man who mixes the lighter
side of farming with the joy of painting
Australian landscape. How he paints it—
of late he is back to his first and best-loved
medium, water-colors —is known from east
to west of this continent. Heysen loves
the gums and the sunshine. A wet day
finds him (as you see him here) in sombre
mood and clad like a Scandinavian sailor
on shore leave. An artist first and last, he
makes out of Art, unspotted by the drudgery
HEYSEN, the Australian gum-tree artist.
of teaching, a comfortable living. And there
are six small, healthy Heysens who can
handle horses and milk a cow on the farm at
Ambleside as well as Daddy.
In 1900 four citizens of Adelaide put up
£4OO to send this gifted youngster abroad.
Three years in Paris and one in Italy gave
Heysen the technique which makes him to-
day a master craftsman. Yet his work is,
like Gruner’s, essentially Australian. He
paints boldly in blue and gold. Color such
as he sees - and reproduces would chill the
marrow of the old gentlemen of the Royal
Academy. More sesthetic than the farmer
side of him would lend you to suspect, Hey-
sen keeps some of his work. A student by
instinct, he watches his own brush with
sharp criticism, and sells with discretion.
A future generation will probably place this
blunt, honest artist-farmer amongst the
Australian immortals. So the pictures he
holds back may be a handsome form of life
insurance for the youngsters.
Cupid staged a little affair within the
British lines at Abassia, with the Pyramids
on guard, when Sister Ruth Maughan
Robson, a Bananalander attached to the
14th A.G.H., was booked by Lesley Wilkie.
Major Stuckey did the giving-away, and
Sisters Grover and Johnson did whatever
bridesmaids usually do. A festive cup was
brewed at Shepheard’s, and then, by way
of a change, the bridelet left on transport
duty, leaving a husband on the dock to
wait qn uncertain return.
A Military Cross comes to Lloyd Davies,
of Neutral Bay, who is a subaltern on the
most active Front. In civilian times he is
a stock-buyer for a Sydney firm. And there
is a D.C.M. for Corporal Roy Withers,
whose father is on the staff of the Mental
Hospital at Parramatta. This fine youngster
—one of two brothers in the trenches —has
been twice wounded.
There was a .quiet khaki event at Yeo. the
.Tack Deans’ home, out Woollahra way.
Nola, the youngest daughter, was the bride;
Lieut. Leslie Luscombe the gentleman who
promised to buy her frocks. Grandma Dean,
widow of the late Alexander, aged 89, was
witness to it; and brother-officers handed
over a glittering array of silver plate, which
the new Mrs. Luscombe will put in safe
custody while her soldier is at the Front.
South Sydney Hospital is sitting back
patiently till May 25. For that date Snowy
Raker is organising a huge variety show at
the Stadium, and the hard-up hospital out
Waterloo way is hoping for great things.
Captain Arthur Champion, eldest hope of
that parson Champion who was once head-
master of the King’s School, was wed with-
out much fuss this week at St- Mark’s,
Darling Point. The ’groom was twice
wounded in the early days of the war—the
second time so badly that he can’t be
accepted again for service. The bride,
Sylvia Grace, belongs to the well-known
squatting family which fights the rabbits on
the Yass-Canberra plains.
It isn’t often that a local shop gets a
chance to build a trousseau for a princess,
so, if you want to get your best boots
trodden on, step round to Pitt-street and
see the wedding regalia of
the amazonian daughter of the King of
Tonga, where the tall beauties grow. The
draper, who knows all things, says she
stands six feet in her silk stockings, goes
37 round the waist and 50 round the bust
and lilies pastel tints.
For the Red Cross Show in the Town
Hall, there was a deltige of rain. It didn’t
matter much to the vice-regal chaise, which
kept Lady Helen snug and dry . inside.
But for the Y.A.D.’s called on for service
as ushers, it was goloshes and an aquatic
tour from remote hubs. After the pictures
had shown the Red Cross workers in every
mood and tense, Carrie Lanceley, Andrew
Black, Iris de Rego, and Marsh Little (the
man who wrote “Boys of the Dardanelles”)
did their bit. Little Aide Haskett Smith
was in cloak attendance on her Ex.
Rain gurgled down the pole-holes in the
big canvas house while Archbishop Cerretti
was opening the week’s fete in St. Vincent’s
Hospital grounds. In the morning there
was a dash to collect the stalled goods and
hide them in some dry corner. Mrs. John
Barlow’s wares had a lucky escape, but Miss
Austin’s attractions got a hearty splashing.
Mrs. Goody Goodman and a daughter or
two pushed the teacups round with a bevy
of helpers. The white-robed sisters hovered
behind the urns, and the wetness of the
weather would have surprised Noah. John
Lane Mullins gave a skeleton outline of the
Hospital’s work in 1916. Then there was a
sale of matinee boxes for Her Majesty’s
show; and a lady from Bananaland gave
£lOOO to the cause as lightly as you’d pay
twopence for a tram fare.
At the Show the side-saddle got ahead,
after all. In one hunting event the veteran
old-style rider. Mrs. Stace, won the Marcus
Clark first prize; and Dolly Fogg, hard at
her heels, ran off with the second.
There are some really rude men at the
Front. One of our most exclusive Sister
Susies received a note the other day, in
answer to the pair of socks and helpful let-
ter she had sent to “a soldier boy in
France.” The note ran: “Who in (you
know) forgot to teach you how to knit?”
Of course you remember pretty Enid
Bennett, who appeared in her rosebud dffrs
in the rather dreary “Everywoman,” and
went off to America and the movies with the
Niblos. Enid’s big fawn-like eyes are now
under the local direction, of Barrington
Miller at the Union Theatres.
Muriel Buchanan, one of our precocious
girl fiddlers, has won a Conservatorium
scholarship, tenable for a year.
Wallsend Hospital, Newcastle way, has
just acquired a new matron—Miss Alice
Edelsten, formerly of Melbourne.
One of the first lot of V.A.D.’s to go to
England, a Brisbane girl, Miss Grant, lately
died of measles and its complications in the
Fog. Otherwise the Red Cross girls signal
“All’s well.” One of the handsome crowd.
Adele Brennan, of Edgecliff, is working in
a Leicester military hospital. There are
800 beds, but the V.A.D.’s get their three
hours off every afternoon. Adele, one of
our pre-war Glaciarium belles, has been
trying a frozen lake near her billet and
finds she hasn’t forgotten her fancy skating.
This week—Thursday—you can get rid
of your last farthing at Dr. Gordon Craig’s
home, Crossways, where you look across
Centennial Park tor the blue smoke of
Botany mills. It’s for the Newtown Free
Kindergarten.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
JEWELLERS
BRACELETS
FOR
BRIDESMAIDS’ PRESENTS
BIRTHDAY PRESENTS.
lf>ot. Gold Flint Bracelet,
£2 8 0
Narrower size, £1 13 0
Hardy Bros. Ltd. have a
tine assortment ol' these
—the most fashionable
braeelets now bei n g
worn.
vc
vcx
loot. Gold Plain Round Bracelet,
£2 8 0
15ct. Gold Reeded Bracelet,
£1 18 0
Selections forwarded on
approval if desired.
Five per cent, discount
on all cash transactions.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF THE COMPANY'S ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE—SENT POST FREE ON REQUEST.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
Take Postcard Photos
with tHe
Rexo Camera
A Postcard with a picture taken by
yourself will convey a more personal
message than the ordinary printed
card, and will be kept where the other
would in most cases be discarded after
having been read.
For taking snapshots for your friends
at the Front, too, the Laylight Load-
ing Folding Rexo, for films, is a
popular camera. It has a very fine
Anastigmat Lens, F 7.7 Automatic
Ilex Shutter, Aluminium Fittings,
Price ; £6/12/6
Other Folding Cameras fc Films,
Postcard size, from 50/-
Send for catalogue if you live out
of town.
vxc
Send Your Residues and Assays
= to HARRINGTONS’. =
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Met.al Workers can depend
on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons' Metallurgical and Assay Department, 59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinulm, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our Traveller will call on you.
LTS
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St. & 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, 59 George St. North, Sydney.
/
• •
Aeolian
-Vocalion
brings the joy of
musicianship to all
WHEN” you hear the Aeolian-Vocal ion for the first time you
will at once recognise the extraordinary perfection of the
instrument. The tone —how wonderfully clear, sweet and
smooth it is! Voices, you hear them all vibrant with emotion and
• life. Instruments, whether brasses, strings or woodwind, all retain
their subtle musical quality and characteristic tone.
Tone such as you never have heard from any disc-playing instru-
ment before.
But when you play the Vocalion —when you take the Grad.uola, the
Avocation tone-control device, and with delicate pressure cause the
music to shade down or swell to the greatest power, when- you find
the music answering instantly to your feeling —then you will
perceive the true wonder of the Vocalion.
THEN YOU WILL REALISE HOW FAB IT IS ABOVE
ANY OTHER INSTRUMENT OF THE PHONOGRAPH
TYPE, AND WHY, WITHIN THE SPACE OF TWO YEARS,
IT HAS BECOME THE MOST POPULAR AND EAGERLY-
SOUGHT-AFTER INSTRUMENT IN THE TALKING-
MACHINE INDUSTRY.
Notwithstanding its superior features, the Vocalion costs no more
than ordinary Gramophones. Several models.
From £l2 lOs., cash or terms.
Write for Catalog B for full description.
Send Us This Coupon
with your name and address, and we will mail an inter-
esting descriptive Catalog , showing the easy terms of
payment that ivill place a Vocation in your home with-
out delay.
Please send me Catalog Jl describing the Vocation as
advertised in Bulletin
Name
Address
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 253 Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
496 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
88 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.


{V- ''
/ r-
m
it
armors
Goat Sweaters
Mens All-Wool Coat Sweaters, to
button down the front; also with collar
attached, in Navy, Grey, Brown and White.
Chests, 34 36 38 40 42 45
Prices, 15/6 16/6 17/6 19/6 21/-
Superior Quality—
Prices, 21/- 21/- 22/6 25/- 27/6 30/-
FOR ALL OUT-DOOR SERVICE
We Pay Carriage.
FARMER'S,
Pitt, Market and
George Streets,
SYDNEY,
GEORGETTE,
Recently of Webb’s Buildings, Melbourne,
Now removed to new and more extensive premises,
Harrington’s Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Adjoining Melville & Mullens, opposite Centerway.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, April IG, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Governor Stanley and. liis lady gave a
garden-party on Saturday afternoon for
French Bed Crossers of different sections.
The weather stormed just enough to frighten
the invited-into carrying raincoats. Even the
motored had to wear the unsightly garments
because, for some unexplained reason, car-
riages are never allowed down the long drive
at Stoningham, and guests have to trudge
about a .qurtrter of a mile over gravel from
the gate, or else take short cuts across the
dewy grass. Umbrellas ranged from the
baggy tent-like gamps of the unco’ sensible
to those ridiculous bits of painted silk that
are no more weather-proof than a. Japanese
lantern, lloma Clarke managed the smart-
est brolly; it was like a drum-major’s baton
swathed tightly in very fine silk. She swag-
gered down the drive with it tucked under
the arm of a dark green coat that had a
fashionable short-waist punctuated at the
back by two pompoms of fur; her little
muff was pompom shaped and her hat
sported a cockade. After her came humble
people disguised in oilskins, oiled silk wrap-
pings, heavy English raincoats and just plain
“macks.” You know, don’t you, that Roma
has to make a dress sensation at every
appearance!
At a bend in the avenue the host and host-
ess were waiting under a draughty red-
striped awning. His Ex. looked little and
cold in his tight cutaway coat, and he seemed
to be holding liis high silk hat on his head
by corrugating his brow. His pretty little
lady was warmly muffled in a smoky-grey
cloak, and smiled under a hat that was
fastened under her chin. In the background
of the tentlet stood the John Maddens. In
this case, also, the poor husband was cold
and overcoatless, while the wife luxuriated
in furs. The furred mayors are the only
men who are cosy at outdoor winter func-
tions.
It was pleasant to have old friend Victor
Hood, of the superline memory, in charge of
affairs again. He knew everybody without
looking at the labels and handed them on in
twos without a mistake. Captain Conant
stood rigidly against the awning-pole dressed
in his thickest khaki overcoat. His lovely
black moustache is turning grey—probably
garden-parties are doing it. All the Stanley
nursery watched the proceedings from the
balcony of the house above and the baby
gurgled delightedly at some of the sights she
saw.
The few men present looked miserable in
their high hats and other light regalia.
Apparently it is not correct to wear your
overcoat or dressing-gown to these shows.
The Gaud Mayor smiled warmly; but he
may have had an electric radiator or some
hot scones in his tail pocket. His lady wore
a pink ninon blouse, a very warm tailor-made
and a huge pillow-muff of ermine. Mrs.
Geoff Syme’s big seal coat had a square cape
collar of sable and she stuck a gay little
gold rose in her black hat. She was witli
Mrs. Merrett, also very snugly furred.
Hagelthorn showed that agriculture was his
line by looking searchingly through his
monocle at the berries of a native shrub
near the terrace steps. He and Hennessy
have just been talking forests to Governor
Stanley. Mrs. Crivelli, vivacious chieftainess
of the French Red Cross, nodded her little
head quickly under a cunning bonnet-hat of
wine-purple. She was discussing the enter-
tainment of GO wounded French convales-
cents who are arriving this week in Mel-
bourne and will be the guests of the Defence
Department. Mrs. Godfrey—another tire-
less Crosser —faced the weather cheerfully
in black fox-furs. Mrs. Richardson wore a
frock of blue with scarlet and gold touches.
Mrs. Manson came along with her husband,
who had just arrived from Maoriland. Mrs.
Ilenty looked chilly under a fluttering mass
of hat-feathers. A girl with remarkably
short skirts stood in the middle of the lawn
and showed bronze stockings above her
putty-colored boots. And then Victor Hood
said hurriedly, “Do, everybody, come and
have tea—it is so cold and windy here.”
Everybody thereupon trekked in two flocks
to tents on either side of the lawn, where
the hot tea waited, and the Empire was
saved again.
Harrie B. Lee, son of Melbourne’s bluff
lire chief, has just won the Military Cross
for gallantry in France. He is 29 and an
M. 8.. B.S. of Melbourne Uni., and as a
youngster was a handsome fire-helmeted
feature of many a fancy-dress shivoo.
Governor Stanley’s petted elder boy is now
being disciplined at Melbourne Grammar
Prep., where his schoolmates have already
shortened his French first name of Edouard.
If he attains popularity he will be “Ted”
some day.
Captain Hardy Eustace, of Bananaland.
boss of a big railway unit, has been staying
for his final leave at the Grand. The young
man is a credit to his State. He was a
locomotive engineeer on the railways, and has
been starred and put in charge of some hun-
dreds of men detailed for war-work on the
French railways.
Captain Frank Carse (mother is the rich
Falkiner sister) has just been promoted and
is now in charge of heavy artillery in France.
His small daughter, aged two, is being-
petted by grandmother at Fairlie House.
Lieut. O’Hara, son of the surgeon, arrived
in Melbourne on Thursday, after a spell iu
a French hospital. He has turned into a
line bronze with a most fetching copper tint.
His leave gives him a bare fortnight in Aus-
tralia. He was badly wounded above the
knee, but the trip home did much to cure
him. O’Hara says the row Australians make
during a charge is weird. They cheer,
shriek, coo-ee, curse and laugh like maniacs.
A brother is shadowing the family hero
about town; the youngster wears a reject
medal and a lugubrious air.
But the trip out isn’t always a pick-me-
up. A nice Albur.v boy, Sergt. ,T. 11. Ken-
nedy, who had been badly wounded in the
back while his battery was giving as good
as it took, or better, died at Randwick
(Sydney) a few days ago. Two months’
rough pasage in a cot had been too much for
him.
Lieutenant Jim, the Charles Fairbairns’
flying son, sends a coo-ee from Germany to
say that he is a prisoner with a broken arm
as the result of the tumble into the enemy’s
lines. A P.S. says “well treated, and
please to send along French and German
conversation books and all available com-
forts.”
Tramway-manager Wilcox is another war
sufferer. News has just been received that
his youngest son, Harold, has gone out to
a Hun bullet. The boy was a sergeant and
a Gallipoli veteran.
Major W. E. Manser, who came to Aus-
tralia as an exchange officer, passed out sud-
denly last week at his Toorak home, when
it was thought he was out of danger. One
of the smartest of Royal Engineer officers,
he had been mentioned more than half a
dozen times in Boer War and China
dispatches. He was with the Home Affairs
Department when the Huns went mad, but
Avas shifted to the Naval Office to super-
intend transport work. He fretted a lot at
being kept from the field, where a colonelcy
awaited him, with possibly a general’s job
to follow. On one occasion lie and his wife
(Mrs. Agar Wynne’s daughter by her first
marriage) had packed up for the voyage to
England, when orders came along that he
was to stay—the Naval Office needed him.
He leaves three children, two girls and a
two-year-old babe —an infant Cupid.
That fine old gallant, General Stanley, t
Q.M.G., has given up his cosy flat at the’
Melbourne Mansions and deposited himself
and a waggon-load of trunks at Mandeville
Hall; formerly the Joseph Clarke mansion,
but now the most sacred boarding-house in
Toorak.
Adelaide’s chronicle:—
Easter has been a tame v season except for the
enthusiasts who wont to Oakbank and collected the
£.‘>o 12s. dividend after East Sheaf’s win in the
Hurdles. The Governor and Captain d’Erlang-er
spent the holidays with Judge John Gordon at Kan-
garoo Island.
The Macartneys lunched at Government House on
their way through from the Speck to Westralia, after
being duly met at the train by Chief Justice Murray
and Premier Vaughan.
Brick and Button Day takings were over £lOOO,
which will be handy for the newly-established Sol-
diers’ Home. The latest patriotic effort emanates
from Glenelg, where a Red Cross shop has been estab-
lished and will be open on Fridays and Saturdays.
Captain E. J. Sexton, who left here with the
10th and was badly wounded in the arm at Gallipoli,
lias got his majority and is in command of a machine-
gun training depot in England.
The Government has announced its intention of
offering the post of Stipendiary-Magistrate at Port
Pirie to Capt. Gordon Campbell, M.C., on his return
from the Front. He is a son of the late Dr. Allan
Campbell, M.L.C., and a nephew of the late Chief
Justice Way, whose Associate he was for a time.
Poultry-expert D. F. Laurie has been made an
honorary member of the Imperial Society of All the
Russias for the Encouragement of Poultry and
Domestic Animal Rearing (no wonder there was a
revolution) in recognition of “his valuable work in
connection with” chooks. A some-time secretary
of the National Poultry Organisation Society of Eng-
land is said to be the only other British-blooded
member of the Society. I had no idea the barndoor
fowl could do such things.
Our new Commandant (this is about the umteenth
change in the office we’ve had since the war), Brig.-
General Forsyth, arrived from Melbourne on Satur-
day.
Brigadier Wouters, the Belgian soldier-lecturer
who has been here for some time convalescing and
giving addresses that have brought in more than
£6OO for the Belgian Fund, is booked to make his
final platform appearance at the Walkerville Hall
on Monday.
Lieut.-Col. Baker, who has just come back from
transport duty, was in London at the time of the
big munitions-faetory explosion. llis hotel was
six miles away from the upheaval, but the concus-
sion shook the very whatsitsname out of the windows
and the kitchen Cinderellas.
The .fosiah Symonses had a smash on Monday
morning- when they were motoring across to catch
the South-Eastern morning train at Mount Barker
Junction. The off-side front wheel came off, and
though no one aboard was hurt the car was a good
deal damaged. The passengers sent back for another
car and walked on towards the station, but missed
the train. When they got back to the smash
they found that everything removable was gone;
the petrol had been drained from the tank, various
parts detac-hed and a large cushion stolen. Good old
Private Enterprise! I suppose the sinner reckoned
that, if he was caught, he would hire Symon to
defend him, and so be bound to get off.
A drear tale comes from a northern suburb where
everything was forthcoming for a duly-arranged wed-
ding except the bridegroom. Some girls have luck
if they only knew it.
Died on Thursday, Mrs. Martha Shannon, widow
of the late David Shannon, of Yatara, near Kapunda.
He was for a while M.L.A. for the old district of
Light. Most of Mrs. Shannon’s 89 years had been
spent here. One of her grandsons was Lieut. Davey,
of the R.F.0., whose death was reported not long-
ago.
The installation of C. G. Gurr as Provincial Prior
of the Knights Templars for South and West Aus-
tralia induced local Masons into a giddy whirl dur-
ing the week. A mayoral reception at the. Town
Hall to the Weedons (he performed the ceremony of
installation) on the morning of their arrival, an
excursion through the hills, Italian opera, and two
afternoon-tea-parties—one at the Gurrs’ and one at
the William Popes'—made up the list of dissipa-
tions.
Lieut. W. 0. Jose, second son of the Rev. G. H.
Jose, of Christ Church, North Adelaide, has been
killed in action. He was one of the first to enlist
in the 10th, and got safely through the whole of the
Gallipoli campaign. An old St. Peter's boy, he had
a brilliant school career and captained the college
cricket team for three years. He was only 22 when
he was killed. Harry Warren, of Port Pirie, has
also been killed. He was studying law with his
brother-in-law (Mr. Penny) in W.A. when war
clouds burst, and enlisted in that State’s Light
Horse, transferring to the Flying Corps when he got
to France. He was a son of that popular sportsman,
the late 11. C. Warren.
A little Westralian girl, Raymer Pittard,
a daughter of Dr. Pittard, of Clayton, has
been staying witli Auntie Wood, at Toorak,
and enslaving one of Toorak’s few eligible
bachelors, Lieut. Oswald Morton. The wed-
ding date will be signalled presently.
The Brearley girl has rushed back to Mel-
bourne from a Sydney trip with an engage-
ment ring on her finger. She is giving bridge
parties at Offington, and tells the girls all
about it, while mother does an even 40 miles
an hour between rag-shops when matching
patterns of torchon lace for the hurried
trousseau. In the excitement the name of
the ’groom has been mislaid; but the im-
portant fact is trumpeted that he owns a car.
There is intense sadness in the George
Armstrong family. The much-heralded grand-
child of Melba, who was to have had a path
of swansdown and rose leaves, died as it
came into the world.
The Bert Austins are to replenish their
house-silver presently by holding a big party
at the Toorak home on the 25th anniversary
of their wedding.
Lesley Madden and Mrs. "Willard opened
their show of undies on Wednesday. Lady
Stanley came along and bought cushions
and nighties and other fascinating things,
while the resigned Madden dame sat on a
mauve cushion and gazed through her lorg-
nette with an air of “Girls will be girls—but
things like this were never done in my day!”
Lesley wore innumerable pleats of pale grey-
crepe and a big mauve collar, while Mrs.
Willard was in purple like a church-window
saint, and they both floated about against a
background of grey paint and mauve silk.
The paint had been applied to the woodwork
by the plump white hands of Lesley herself
while the painters were celebrating Easter.
All sorts of fluffy trousseau trifles were
arranged about the room and the vendors
boasted of “heaps more in the chintz-boxes.”
There are pinks and blues for blondes and
black and gold for brunettes.
Mining-man Tewkesbury is just back from
Maoriland, where he has been peering into
holes in the ground. .As soon as his foot
touched Melbourne young daughter Vera
whirled him off to Bright and Buffalo by
motor, with herself at the wheel. She
drives her own touring-car and Dad just sits
back and plays the pampered passenger.
Mrs. Magelssen, the charming little
Canadian whose husband is Consul for the
great U.S.A., has just returned from a year’s
holiday in Wilsonland with her thoroughly-
Australian baby on her arm. Dad hoped to
steal a run home to escort them back; but
there was so much consuling to be done that
he could only find time to rush over to
Sydney and meet the boat.
Charles McEvoy, whose wife and bachelor
daughter are warbound in London, has taken
his elder girl, Mrs. Guy Madden, and her
son to cheer his grass-widowerhood in a Clive-
den flat while son-in-law Guy learns some
more soldiering in England.
Whilst the Quamby is possessed by paper-
hangers and carpenters, members are allowed
the run of the Alexandra and its fashion
journals. But only the bravest Quambies
can remember fashion hints properly when
under the coldly condescending eye of an
Alexandra. They’re a terribly frosty lot.
Frank Guthrie, who commands Dalgety’s
Geelong house, has handed the job on to an
understudy for a few weeks. He parted
with his appendix recently, and is feeling the
loss.
The handsome Grey-Egerton lady is a
gran’ma now, daughter “Possum,” who was
married last year, having become the mother
of a small son.
Mrs. Sam Mackay has started her winter
round of charitable entertainments with a
.series of “Tea-an’-bring your-thimble” par-
ties. A decorative garden fete, for the Child-
ren's Hospital, will happen later on.
The Bertie Dibbs pair, after a cheerful
Tasmanian holiday, halted at Menzies’ for a
week or so and did the shows and shopping.
Now they’ve melted away to Geelong. “Ber-
tie” is the fat, fair son of Sydney banker
Tom Dibbs.
Died in Melbourne last week-end the
eldest of the Paterson Brothers, whose old-
established firm stands for Art in house
decoration. Brother Charlie, just deceased,
was an ardent upholder of the dignity of
labor and a practical worker in the cause.
He helped to found the Melbourne Working
Men’s College, and was the last survivor of
its first council. Five years ago nobody
would have guessed him to be an old man of
70; but the Patersons came fra Scawtland,
whose *braw sons are quick to acquire the
air of middle age and slow to part with it.
Brother John Forde P., the clever land-
scape painter, died a few years ago. The
youngest of the tribe is Hugh, father of
two artistic girls.
The University Red Crossers are prepar-
ing a carnival to inflate the funds. As soon
as “Commencement” frivols are over, the
students will make ready for the afternoon
and evening of April 28 in the ’Varsity
grounds.
Mrs. A. 10. V. Richardson made £55 for
war comforts by her compact little patriotic-
party at Lochinge. The venture was organ-
ised, put through and bound up with the
Defence Department pink-tape in the record
time of a fortnight.
Mrs. O’Hara is president of the committee
which is working up the Banool fete, with
Mrs. Fred Knight as A.D.C. There is to
be an electrically-lit street of awninged
stalls planted on the lawns, and Mrs. Tallis
is helping to gather some singing stars.
The foundlings’ friends have a city home and
a place at Upper Beaconsfield to maintain,
and the demand for baby clothes never
ceases. The bright Beaconsfield Home,
with its lawns and verandahs, looks like a
harbor full of sailing-ships because of the
many white-linen-covered prams in which
Young Australia takes the pure mountain
air and grows into a good citizen. Anyone
who cannot be bothered working may send
along a cheque.
Dolls are being made in Melbourne —the
same rosy-cheeked waxen beauties that used
to be labelled “Made in Germany.” Mrs.
Geoff Syme bought up some and is dressing
them to feature in her dolls’ stall at the fete
for the Foundlings’ Home. Already she has
dressed 70 (dolls, not foundlings), and a
room in her house looks like a toy wax-
works. Fan Dango Mackay is making
bewitching nighties and nightcaps, and Mrs.
Rogers Thompson is concentrating on motor
bonnets. Mrs. Geoff is arranging her one-
time nursery at Banool as a crfeclie for the
day, and nurses will be in attendance. The
riots are booked for April 21.
Last week tired soldiers had to foot it
two miles to the railway station from Mari-
byrnong camp, whilst cabs passed them by
loaded with noisy racegoers from Ascot Vale.
The indignant man who told me about it
said the home-staying members of one of our
most expensive Clubs yawned in his face
when he tried to speak about it. So he
went out and left them babbling about bets
and dead certs.
Mrs. Colquhoun-Tliomson, whom Mel-
bourne knows better as Maggie MacCann.
the Scotch singer, has arrived from
Blighty, on a visit to a sick sister.
Mrs. Pohlman’s numerous parties to the
singing Italians were not the only ones.
Mrs. Springthorpe was responsible for sev-
eral and so was Mrs. Donga 11, while Mrs.
Hitchcock and her fluffy daughters also
handed out complimentary food and drink.
The people at the Princess’s have only
just finished tidying up after the excitable
Italian opera artists. At the finale of the
season the men of the co. got too much
attention from adorers in the house —at
least the neglected women thought so. They
argued that point with the men, and then
skirmished among themselves ns. to. which
man was most favored. Mrs. Lois insisted
that the largest bouquets were meant for
Mr. Lois, while Russ agitatedly studied the
labels for her fiance, . ScamuzzL When Lois
l’eceived a diamond ring in a little rose posy
—well, the geysers started to play. The
argument eventually rolled round to the
front, and then the manager ordered the
keyholes to be stuffed up until something like
peace was restored.
Miniaturist Berenice Edwell, . the clever
Australian girl who has exhibited in the
Paris Salon, is holding an exhibition o!
miniatures and sketches during the last days
of this week. They are well worth the
trouble of * climbing to the top of South
Yarra hill to see. That’s where her studio
is: 49 Murphy-street.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—Still going strong
.teo
<S ‘A man is as old as he feels/ ”
“Yes, but Johnnie Walker is as old as it tastes/*
JOHN WALKER & SON, Ltd,, Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND


Behold the face of Bristly
Beiij
He hasn’t shaved since deuce-
knows-when,
If he but knew
The thing to do!
It isn’t WORK to use a
PENN.
vcx
7/6 PENN SAFETY7/6
* with 5 Sheffield That Shave*——
is the most satisfactory Shaving Outfit obtainable, each
Razor being Triple Silver-plated. Holder set at correct
angle—equipped with smooth guard—and complete with
five blades which are tempered exactly alike. Blades are
forged, tested and hand-finished—made to shave.
We believe more smooth and satisfactory shaves are obtain-
able from Penn Razors than from any other Razor made,
and we guarantee you entire
SHA VING SA TISFA CTION,
or we will refund your money—not part of it, but all of
it—so you can’t lose anyway, and you can get Shaving
Satisfaction.
Buy one from your dealer to-day or, if he cannot supply
it, send us the money, and we will send you one by return.
Price 7/6, Post Free.
A. C. PENN, Inc.,
420 George St.
SYDNEY.
A Signal Success
<3
King George IV
U WUI§H
Die TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Blades”: The limit was reached in a
northern N. S. Wales shearing shed this season. To get
the flock through in quick time a cocky agreed to
pay more than the A.W.U. rate, to throw in fresh
meat three times a week, and make other concessions.
The only thing he overlooked was to leave a loophole
for a growl. However, that was rectified when he
refused to supply pickles with the meat. After that,
all hands went along with the job amidst a chorus of
happy complaints.
* * * #
“Colac”: Somebody was talking about
close shaves in the last Bulletin that reached East
Afiica. Here s the closest from this end. Jan was
sleeping a few feet from an out-sentry when he was
suddenly pounced upon by an old-man lion. Jan’s
shriek and the sentry’s shot hit high Heaven simul-
taneously. The lion is still going, and Jan has only
foui small scars to call attention to his careless
habit of sleeping in the path of lions.
“Te Babarantiko”: What is the range of
the willy wagtail? 1 said good-bye to him at
Sydney and awoke in the steaming night on a
Kew Britain plantation to his chatter from the gutter-
ing around the verandah. Every night about the
same hour In's notes sounded from the same place. It
was the voice of a friend in that evil, crocodile-
haunted, man-killing swamp. I never saw that par-
ticular willy, but in the fever-racked nights men-
_ tally I pictured him daintily dancing and darting
and pecking at the muzzles of the straying cattle
grazing on the roads at home. On the plantation I
saw an occasional (he is nowhere numerous, not even
in Australia) willy, blithely swaying his tail on
one of the serried ranks of jagged jungle tree-stumps
studding like decaying teeth the reeking foulness
of the low delta land. 1 have never seen the bird in
the Central or North-eastern Pacific, and here in
' it* Levu he is, as far as I know, non-existent.
* * * #
“McNorth”: Here’s another thing in favor
of the Far North. Priekly-pear is not likely to grab
up huge stretches of country there as it has done,
and is still doing, in the South, although conditions
of soil and climate seem ideal for it. Thirty or more
years ago a lot of the curse was planted at Somer-
set, Cape York, for decorative purposes. The settle-
ment was shifted to Thursday Island soon after, and
the pear has had the freedom of the country ever
since. Yet a few miserable specimens are all that
remain to-day. The spiny demon was also planted
at the now long-abandoned town of Victoria, Port
Essington (N.T.), in 1850 or thereabouts. It hasn’t
spread a yard; in fact, after all those years the few
surviving plants have the appearance of being the
original vegetables. This despite the fact that no
efforts were made at eradication. The reason? I
dunno. But it looks as if Nature, or somebody, in
order to limit the disastrous effects of the pest-
importing idiocy in a naturally pest-free country, has
tried to make the Far North fool-proof in that
respect, and so provide another cause of southern
envy.
* * * #
“Pick”: Sheep are not the only four-
footers that can hold out without drink. On Merri-
man Island, in Wallaga Lake (South Coast, N.S.W.),
where there is neither fresh water nor catchment
area, a herd of goats has existed and multiplied, to
my knowledge, for the past 18 years. On the
West Coast of Ireland some goats once lived on a
waterless two-acre pinnacle that stood off shore with
every side a sheer precipice 200 feet high. The
mystery regarding those beardies was not so much
how they lived as how they got there. The belief
was that their progenitors must have been on the
point of land when the sea broke through and separ-
ated the promontory from the mainland. The goats
were gradually shot off their diminutive domain by
English Johnny sportsmen.
* * * *
“Alfonso”: Mother Nature is supposed to
provide for all things. But I wonder how my cow
would have fared if she had been left to the old
girl’s mercy. Blossom’s horns grow in a circular
direction, curving in such a way as to eventually
poke into her eyes. A few weeks ago I had to cut
a piece off the ends of them, and will have to operate
again in a few months.
THE LESSER EVIL.
EXPERIENCED TWENTY-SEVEN: “I can’t understand you flappers all dying to get married.
It only means worry."
SENTIMENTAL SEVENTEEN: "Yes, hut it means more worry not to be.”
SUCH A WINDFALL.
BENEVOLENT OLD LADY: “Yes, and if I give you threepence I suppose you'll spend it to
help build another brewery."
DUSTBIN DAN: “No mum; I’ve got my eye on a motor-car."
“Wandi”: Birds that cut queer capers at
times are the white-winged choughs and the grey
jumpers or Apostle birds. The latter especially are
cheerful friends of the lonely traveller, dancing and
chattering around him as he rests by the way and
coming within hand-reach for crumbs. They are
often confounded with the happy family, though there
is little resemblance except in habits. The jumpers
ale leaden-grey in color, with black wing-feathers
and tail. In winter they are often seen in com-
panies of 12, from which they are further called the
Twelve Apostles. I counted some scores of lots in
Southern Queensland, and found them to average
about nine. Each pair builds a small round mud
nest on top of a limb. The happy family, or bab-
blers, or chatterers, which are a trifle smaller than
the Apostle birds, build a fairly large structure of
sticks and leaves, wedged among small upright
branches. The Apostle bird, the white-winged chough
(which is sometimes mistaken for the kurrawong)
and the magpie lark are the only Australian birds,
besides swallows, which build mud nests.
* * * *
"H.V.E.”: The extraordinary breeding-
arrangements of the native porcupine, or echidna,
are not more remarkable than the wonderful perti-
nacity of the animal when on its slow, methodical
sauntering march. Of course it is now known that
the porcupine reproduces by means of soft-shelled
eggs, which pass into a pouch in the body of the
female and are there incubated, the young porcupines
subsisting on milk which exudes from the lacteal
glands until able to leave home and shift for them-
selves. As regards the beast’s pertinacity, one that
was blocked in its progress by the arm of a salt lake
calmly entered the water and started off for a
quarter-mile swim, as if it were an everyday occur-
rence. Hares sometimes take to the water, also
rabbits, and I have seen a cat do likewise and make
good time, but there was a dog behind her. The
young of land birds, too, which accidentally fall
into the water, swim without hesitation; in fact,
the only animal which must be taught to propel him-
self through water is man.
* * * *
“Nallah Dooh” : By way of an answer to
“J.J.C.,” who recently informed The Bulletin that
white ants do not attack crops if the land is ploughed
before the crop is planted, here’s what happened on
the Batchelor Experimental Farm (N.T.). A crop of
peanuts was planted 15 acres in area. The ground
was ploughed twice at short intervals before plant-
ing, and the nuts were put down either by machine
or in drills made by single furrow. When the crop
was growing it was scuffled at least three times with
horse-hoes, yet it was eaten out, so that it was a
complete failure. J was for four years on the
Batchelor and saw many similar instances, though
not with such a loss. I contend that the only way
to squeeze the termite out is to visit him in his
home and treat him to sulphur-dioxide fumes, carb.-
bisulph. or caustic soda and arsenic.
“Murkah”: Ratigan is my nomination for
the lucky-drunk championship. He drove the grocer's
cart in our Goulburn Valley (Vic.) town and was
so used to crossing the river at the ford that lie
arrived there one day when it was in flood. The
wise old horse objected, but Ratigan used the whip
and finally cleared port. The swirling water imme-
diately gripped the outfit, and with the light spring-
cart showing about four inches of freeboard, Ratigan
drove straight downstream at a steady six knots. A
small boy witnessed the. departure and immediately
bolted up town to inform anyone he met that Pat
Ratigan was driving down the middle of the river in
Gilligan’s spring-cart. Great excitement prevailed,
and Pat was given up for lost. Meanwhile he had
voyaged half a mile down the river and was begin-
ning to feel, in a hazy, distant kind of way, that
it was time he made the other bank. He ported
the horse at a bend, splashed into a comparatively
quiet backwater, and struggled up a shelving bank
on the side he had started from. Then he drove
back into town, where he got an unexpected reception
that sobered him and gave him stage fright.
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
T.M.B. OFFICER (looking for his men) :
“Are you men Trench Mortars?”
VOICE FROM FATIGUE PARTY: “ Trench Mor-
tars he I We’re camels!”
“D.F.” : What the swallows do for tucker
on their annual migrations has been puzzling one
Dodson, a Speck nature student; but a friend has
supplied him with an explanation. The friend says
that he once knocked down a swallow just about to
leave for warmer climates and found that the bird
had a breast-plate of flies stuck to the feathers. He
didn’t notice whether there was any salt on them,
but maybe the sea-air keeps them fresh. Then
Robert Hall, who has written about birds, blew in
to remark that the swallows didn’t go far, anyway,
only to N. S. Wales or thereabouts, and that he
reckoned they could catch enough fresh tucker on
the wing to keep them going that far.
(Continued on page 24J
LONELINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I've trudged the tracks at the hack o’ Bourke, where
the lonely places are;
I've picked my way by my shadow’s fall, and oft by a
beacon star.
I tramped from Louth to “the Corner” once, with a
cattle-dog for a mate;
And I trudged it back without the dog, and then to
the Border Gate.
I’ve followed the sand-strewn camel pad, with Abdul
far behind,
And Mahomed on a hundred miles—and I did not
greatly mind.
I've walked from the Cliffs to Broken Hill in the
white-hot days of drought;
And alone from the City of Poppet-heads I have
borne Matilda out.
Ive trudged from Bourke.to Barringun, and twice to
Mount Despair;
Alone I tramped, and thirsty tracks and hungry
tracks they were.
I'rom Cobar out to Hungerford was another tramp of
mine.
Such tramps are set in the Book of Fate we rovers
have to sign!
They were lonely tramps those tramps Outback where
the sandy spaces are,
Where a man is nought but a mateless speck lured
on by the Gipsy Star.
But my loneliest tramp was when I went the Sydney
sights to see,
And pushed through the crowd from Railway Square
down George-strcet to the Quay!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


Why Shiver
when yon can be warm as toast these early "W inter days, and be as
comfortable as you wish if you wear a good sweater ?
*
m
A
'him
o\„IE
ii-iiy
mt
il
\V\vN
‘ J '%2
Murdoch’s
Coat Sweaters
are just the thing for your wardrobe.
Serviceable garments for all occasions
—they may be worn as inner or outer
garments for sports or indoor wear —
for knockabout and lounge wear in-
doors. Get one of these smart Sweaters
now.
Your choice of open front, V style or
Polo Collar buttoned up to neck—in
Greys, Browns and Navy.
11/6 —os 126
1516 —°- s -166
Step along and get your size to-day, or
write Desk K.
MURDOCH’S
In Park St., Limited, Sydney
“Where the Good Hats Are.”
FOLLOW THE LEADER.
This is the name of
following the Leader.
an old game. However, many
Ihe big Leaders draw the crowd.
people
are
still
vxc
Nelson Products are
all Leaders, and they
will Draw Trade to
Your Fountain.
natural fruit flavor of choice, ripe
fruit. This process is used and
controlled exclusively by us.
Because Nelson Products are made
under the most sanitary conditions
and are pure and - wholesome. Our
trade mark is. “The Sign of Purity.”
Nelson Products will also net you
Greater Profits for Your Fountain.
Because Nelson Products represent
the highest quality possible to
attain —and you know quality
counts for much these days.
Quality trade is the best-paying
trade.
Because Nelson Products are highly
concentrated, and can be let down
with a larger quantity of simple
syrup than any other brand. You
can prove this yourself simply by
comparing them with other brands
let down with the same amounts of
simple syrup. You will easily taste
the difference.
Are you serving NELSON Pro-
ducts at your fountain this season?
Truly, they are the Leaders.
Send us your order and we will
supply you.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
The House of Quality, 219 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Queensland Agents: J. W. Palmer Ltd., Cork Manufacturers and Importers,
Grey Street, South Brisbane.
Adelaide: Silas H. Martin, The Rltz, King William Street.
Perth: A. B. Hadden,.99 William Street.
New Zealand: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets, Wellington.
ISSi
v
xcv
xcv
tut Down** 1 Expenses
A REMARKABLE FEAT
BY OXY-ACETYLENE
is demonstrated by the illustration, which shows how an old and worthless boiler, forty years
of age and of enormous dimensions, was cut into small pieces and carried away from a
confined situation in the basement of a printing works. The whole work, conducted under
the most difficult of situations, was finished in two days. Without OXY-ACETYLENE
the work would have taken weeks, and the whole of the printing machinery and plant would
have been idle and disorganised for weeks in excavation and dismantling work.
EVERY ENGINEER and all interested should write in for free catalogues, giving
pictures and detailed description of this and other remarkable engineering achievements. The
total length of cutting done in the two days, by one man. was 144 ft. 6in. of a single
thickness of lin. plate, and 18ft. Sin. of the double thickness of 2in. plate.
THROUGHOUT GREAT BRITAIN, AMERICA AND THE CONTINENT the
OXY-ACETYUENE process is being more extensively used day by day for cutting up
iron and steel structures, such as old boilers, tanks, bridgework, etc.
Every Australian Engineer should be able to speak with facility and confidence of the OXY-ACETYLENE
Cutting and Welding Process.
QKH
m
04
i
» . 1
if n
Cutting: up a Cornish
Multitubular Boiler.
Those workshops which are rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, contractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths
repair shops, foundries, steel mills and railroad shops. ' ’
boilermakers,
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.
The Permanent Trustee Building*,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Agents— MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTII: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
Martin s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE,
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
Bri
The
Soldiers’
Pen
“Swan safety"
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
Catalogue free on request.
MAtilE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. Primrose Buildings, 2S5a George St., Sydney.
Wmmmm
THE FAMOUS
AMEHMS SWIMRD FOWKVCU DISK
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders—4 cycle-—medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfg\ Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working.
It will convince yon ; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
“Lantana” : Look out for the lysol bottle.
One Robert Fielding, of W.A., while riding a cycle,
collided with another wheelman and broke a bottle
of the disinfectant which he was carrying in his
pocket. The fluid ran down his thigh, he was burned,
and poisoning set in. Dead now, and he was a
strong man. One other similar case is recorded.
“E.S.S.” : The worst bird prsts in this
country, like the worst animal and weed pests, are
aliens—the sparrow and the Indian mina, introduced
in 1863; the starling and
the blackbird, imported
in 1864; and the English
goldfinch, sent, out in
1881. All were liberated
in or about Melbourne.
The eom m o n garden
snail, which was im-
ported to feed the black-
bird, also came from
England. Before the
dreadful sparrow had been
acclimatised Gould wrote
(“Birds of Australia,” p.
202) : “In England a price
is put upon the head of
the sparrow, while in Aus-
tralia rewards are offered
for its introduction.”
Growers to-day would
gladly give a substantial
reward for the privilege
of screwing the neck of
the last sparrow in the
country. If these aliens
were eliminated, producers
would have little to complain about so far
as feathered pests are concerned. To the
orchardists, at least, there are remarkably few
Australian birds that can be seriously considered as
pests, and those only in particular localities and
under certain conditions.
* * * *
“Melos”: In enumerating the virtues of
sassafras, “Khaki” (B. 15/3/’l7) forgot to mention
the pleasing effect obtained by putting a pinch of the
bark in the pipe. It gives “Black Charlie” the
aroma of choice Havana.
HOPE
THE COMFORTER: “Do not give way to such despair, my poor friend. Remember there
is always hope.”
THE POOR FRIEND: "'Ope! ’OPE! Look 'ere! That cove be'ind says I pinched 'is
waieh. This 'ere core in the 'elmet ses 'e see me pinch it. The magistrate sed
he'd gimme a six-moats' stretch nex’ time I come before 'im. I got the blanky
natch in me pocket. Now, what yeh goiter say to me about your blanky ’ope?”
“Parhassius” : Here you are —a reliable
mosquito diddler. Equal parts of kerosene and
“sweet oil” (this being less offensive than raw
castor), and when thoroughly mixed add an equal
quantity of household ammonia. When well shaken it
forjns a creamy mixture for application. The sweet
oil gives the kerosene body and prevents blister, the
ammonia counteracts the greasiness, and is soothing 1 .
I gave a sample to a fellow agricultural assistant
and he said it was the best toothache cure he’d ever
struck.
* # #
"Drofsed”: Can any Abo-roader give in-
formation as to how the scorpion feeds its young?
I,’ve noticed the mother over a number of the off-
spring in a little hole. Does she suckle them?
CHIVALRY.
OLD NED: “Where are you gain’, Charlie?”
GOONELLABAH CHARLIE: “Oh, just fakin'
these two plurry women out for a blow.”
“Country Red”: “Leo Lear” (B. 22/3/T7)
wants to know a locality where white-backed and
black-backed magpies, are equally common. The only
place where I have seen the two kinds together was
in the forest country between Heathcote and Nagambie
(Vic.). There the black-backed variety were slightly
more numerous.
"Bad Australian”: I was riding past
Hanrahan’s place, one afternoon and found old Pat
seated on the “chock an’ log" which enclosed a
22-carat crop of wheat. After acknowledging Pat’s
hearty “Good-day to yeh, Ilinnery, b'y," I re-
marked: “That’s a tine crop of wheat, Pat.’’ “Id
is, me b’y, id is. Divil a thruer wurd ; a great crop
iv whate, intoirely—forty bushels wid the help iv
God, an’ t’irty-foive widout it annyhow.”
“Bung”: Any Abo.-scientist explain why
spontaneous combustion occurs in haystacks and not
in silos? Before binders were introduced the farmer
used to fork over the hay until all moisture was
thoroughly dried out of it, and when stacked in that
condition self-firing was unknown. Nowadays the
sheafed haystack fire comes along to the N. S. Wales
coastal-farming areas almost as regularly as the trav-
elling chaffcutter. Are the conflagrations owing to the
stuff being packed wet, or is green hay responsible? By
the way, a ventilation-hole left throughout the full
depth of the stack is a good preventive of ignition,
and a haze over the hay, similar to that observable
above a drying-out brick-kiln, is a warning that the
show is heating up.
“Flinderino”: 1 was r&f ree at a willing
bout between a large gohanna and a half-bred Irish
terrier. The reptile had taken refuge up a sapling,
but I felled the vegetable and the go. raced the dog
to another small tree. I felled this one, too, and
the supply of trees having run out thereabouts the
lizard made off for a large pool of water nearby.
The dog followed, and when in the middle of the
pool the go. turned about and grabbed the tike by
the lip. The unhappy hound yelped with pain and
fright, but they enemy clung on and pulled the cap-
tured head under the water several times, apparently
trying to drown the owner. He was winning easily
when I passed him the time of day with a length of
sapling.
; “R.S.S.”: The sugar-aiit|- wEicli-is-about
the size of the soldier or red-jumper, but' thinner, ol
a lighter color and stingless, is an amiable burglar
on long, spidery legs. It puts in an appearance
about tea-time, and mounting the • table cheerfully,
runs nimbly over the cloth in search of sugar, jam,
honey or other sweets. Once it has found the sugar-
bowl and tasted the dregs in the teacups, it will
come regularly to the meal, and if the table happens
to be cleared before the usual hour the young fellow
gets indignant about it. The blacks, especially
around the Everard and Mulgrave Ranges, dig for
the sugar-ant, which they call wornnia. The insects
store honey in the bodies of selected members of
their kind, and these honey-hag ants, which become
'so distended that they cannot move, hang in clusters
to the sides of the cells like hunches of grapes.
Binglii, who eats the receptacle as well as the
honey, hiring off only the said receptacle’s head,
esteems the womma a great delicacy.
“Koi-Koi-Las”: The boss was engaging a
New Guinea boy :—-
Master: Wot name you do, Cookie?
Cookie: Me takem horf ’air felonga bidgeon.
Master: Wot fashion you cookem ?
Cookie: ’Longa livin' ban alonga glease.
Master: All right, you cookem, behind you bringem
’ot water.
Cookie: Mot name ’ot water?
Mastir: Belouga grass alonga face.
Cookie: Aright. Sou bo, bluslia, lazor altogether he
s tob ?
Master: ’E stop.
“Musketoon” : Have a nomination for the
long-jomney-without-food championship. 'At Orange
(X.S.M .) the other day a store-hand who was un-
packing goods jumped back about Oft. when he dis-
covered a live snake in one of the eases. The goods
came from India, and had done the usual wartime
dawdle on the journey.
* # * *
“Nat”: One of the most interesting charac-
teristics of many of our Australian lizards is their
ability to reproduce a tail should this organ get
In then, as it frequently does. The restoration is not.
however, to he regarded as a real tail, since it is
lacking in several essentials. The common, useful
and much persecuted slow-worm furnishes an excel-
lent example of tail-brittleness and regenerative
power. This animal, which is in reality a legless
lizard, and not a snake as commonly supposed, and
which through ignorance is often killed as being
harmful to man, is in reality not merely incapable
of inflicting harm, but is a most useful reptile,
destroying vast quantities of slugs and snails. The
belief that the creature is noxious is quite prevalent,
and is one of those unfounded prejudices which,
1 hough never borne out by fact, are yet accepted
almost universally as true. It’s playing it low
down.
“11. V. E.” Diamond and carpet snakes
’commonly ascend trees in search of opossums or the
young of birds which nest in hollows, such as jack-
asses, parrots and dollar-birds. But, so far as
writer’s experience goes, the only good climber
among deadly snakes is the black devil. I met him
once face to face up a wild-lemon tree about 10 feet
high. I saw another climbing over wire-netting
about three feet high which lie surmounted ; another
I observed- climbing up a rambler rose-bush and
burglariously entering an apartment 25 feet above
ground, in going up a small coil near the tail is
thrown round a hough -and this is used as a base
for further operations. The black snake is also a
first-rate swimmer; tiger snakes I have also watched
crossing from islands in salt lakes to the mainland,
but their progress was feeble and slow. You can
beat any snake one way, though; put him on a
sheet of glass or any smooth surface and he becomes
a squirming mass of unprogressive fury. The belly-
plates cannot act unless there are some projections,
however slight, to catch on to.
THE CURE.
Moses : “Look at them tarn pants yer sold
me, I key. Yen I vash ’em they do a
shrink of an inch'or two!”
I KEY: "That’s all right, Mo. Try ’avivg a
vash yerself!”
THE CAPTAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Drinking deep the captain sits,
And, at intervals, he tells
In emphatic syllables
Of his deeds of derring-do
In the many lands he knew,
And his tales are so entrancing
I could wish that they were true.
Varied curses, quaint and bold,
Stud his language as he speaks,
And the crazy table creaks
’Neath his clenched hands’ sudden weight
As he tells with eyes elate
How he choked Black Karl, the trader,
On a midnight red with hate.
“When this beard of mine was black,
And these tireless veins aglow,
From the Horn to Callao,
Yea, and back to Sydney-town,
Round and round, and up and down,
Sailed my schooner, I, her captain,
Big and bearded, bold and brown.”
Says he, stroking down his beard,
As he fills himself more wine:
“Lord, ’twas living! It was line
In the old blackbirding days,
Sailing down uncharted ways,
With no rival under Heaven—
Save, it might be, ‘Bully’ Hayes.
“Him 1 did not fear (o meet;
Him 1 met one afternoon,
And from then on, till the moon
With a glorious splendor-burst
Reef and palm and beach immersed
In her light, we talked and jested,
Drinking rum to wet our thirst.
“Red hibiscus was the flower
Lulu loved, the island belle!
Ah, but things too sweet to tell
In this coarse-grained speech of mine
Made my roving days divine,
When Youth’s blood flashed red and redder
Than this rich, heart-warming wine.
“There was one man whom I shot
•lust for Lulu—one who came
Thinking, fool! to quench the flume
Of his passion at her charms.
How (as when a hawk alarms
Some sweet bird) she ran to nestle
Closer, closer in my arms!
“God above! These eyes have seen
Better things than gold or pearls—-
Singing seas and dancing girls,
Midnight on the still lagoon,
Palm groves silvered by the inoon,
Sunset blushing many waters,
Trembling dawn and golden noon!”
M hile the captain, drinking much,
Tells his tale, at intervals
Something wild and wondrous calls,
Ever old and ever new,
From the Realm of Derring-do;
And that call is so enchanting
I could wish his tales were true.
RODERIC QUINN.


5f$TE
CIGARETTES
Perfect satisfaction
—a sense of infinite
joy —a feeling of
deep content All of
these joys and more
may be yours to-day.
You will find them
wrapped up in every
State Express Cigar-
ette waiting to be
unfolded by you at
your leisure.
No. Hi
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
'P9 JO J 0!
Standard Weight NOT LESS than 10 for Sixpence,
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia,
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.. LONDON. ENGLAND.
ttH«"
m
/ r
nr,
//
p
%
/r.
&
4C.
w
€
4,
w
\
/ /
\
\X&
■£■ H £.
m


School Children
•re very liable to catch
cold. They have to
go in all weathers
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection —especially when epidemics of
Whooping Gough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can be always FREE
of ANXIETY if they have a bottle of
Heame’s
Bronchitis
= Cure =
,11.
in tRe Rouse, as one dose of tfiis Medicine at the
first indication of a "cold” will at once "nip in the
RhcT wßat migßt otßerwise prove to Re a serious
illness. Cork tRe bottle up —tke rest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Lid.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
2 16
Double
Size
%
h
5
./£
&
tZ
m \*r>
7
fi?
AW
\
fc
J
cwt«c\iiy
12
"Billy B.” : The yarns about gagging re-
call the D’Oyly Carte story of his appear-
ance at Windsor Castle to play “The Gondo-
liers.” Queen Vic. was following the show
with the book of words, and presently heard
a line that was not in Gilbert’s dialogue.
She asked Carte the reason. "That,” he
replied, “is called a 'gag,’ your Majesty.”
“I thought that gags were something put in
people’s mouths by authority,” said H.M.
“Oh, no, ma’am,” answered the pro-
ducer ; “things inserted in people’s mouths
without authority.”
“Melb”: The success of the Australian-
made “Bunyip” panto, looks as if we might
start doing this sort of thing for ourselves
once more. For 20 years our pantomimes
were Australian in the main. The first at
Melbourne Royal, in ’55, was “Harlequin,
King of the Golden Island of Australia,”
written by Tom Pavey, the attorney. Its
first and only rival at the Olympic was
“Harlequin L.S.D., or Demon of the Aus-
tralian Gold Mine,” written by Akluirst.
who furnished so many afterwards at his
modest fee of £lOO. (His “House That
Jack Built” in 'GO was a high-class show
full of sound patriotism.) Marcus Clarke,
Garnet Walch, Carrington, Finn and Eville
all got welcome siller out of pantos. Some-
how the business later drifted right away to
such as Hickory Wood, of London, who is
said to be ashamed to append his real name
to the inane trash, whereas the Australian
authors boldly signed.
“Penden”: The Royal was not the only
“proper” theatre old Ballarat (Vic.) was
provided with. Ancient inhabitants still in
fancy rebuild the Charlie Napier, the Monte-
zuma, the Victoria and the Bijou in the ’so’s
and ’6o’s, and recall G. V. Brooke from the
depths. “G.V.” was Ballarat’s man. The
“Charlie” one night furnished a fine bit of
realism. Anna Gould, a popular artist,
strayed too near the footlights and her dress
caught fire. Dr. Rosenliiem sprang from his
seat in the circle to the stage, and amidst
cheers extinguished the flames, by enveloping
the player. The incident led to the Itosen-
hiem-Gould marriage. That playhouse, in
’6B, made way for the goldfield’s first
brewery. The “Monte” passed out in
flames, whilst the others merely closed up
with the drifting Of the town westward.
All were comfortable, well-set-up, good-look-
ing theatres.
Amy Castles gave her first concert in New
York with the Cardinal Archbishop among
those present. The Church has been a
mighty good friend to Amy from the day of
her first concert in Melbourne.
From London:—
Fred Enmey, just dead at 52 as the result of an
apparently simple fall while acting at the Opera
House, first made his name by succeeding Arthur
Williams (his uncle) as Lurcher in “Dorothy.”
Latterly lie was best known in an old-woman part
in “A Sister to Assist ’er.” “Three Cheers” shut
down for only three nights on the news of the death
of Harry Lauder’s son in action in France. Then
it resumed, and the Scotchman was back in his
place. He finished the painfully significant song,
“The Laddies Who Have Fought and Won,” with
tears rolling down his cheeks, but without breaking
down ; and a largely military audience gave him a
big demonstration. Seymour Hicks opens his own
theatre free every Sunday evening for soldiers and
sailors. He and other players attend to give variety
items, but the audience is encouraged to make the
affair a “sing-song” of its own whenever it wants to.
One of the biggest recent successes in revue is a
bunch of songs revived from the comic-operas of 30
years back, and given in “Pell Mell” at the Ambas-
sadors. It includes the Letter Song from “Rip Van
Winkle,” the bells from “Corneville,” the Glou-glou
duet from “Mascotte,” the drum song from “Tambour
Major,” and a bit of “Madame Angot.” The old
stuff goes splendidly. “Charley’s Aunt” and “The
Private Secretary” are both getting a Christmas
revival. The latest Secretary is Charles Walenn,
lately' in Australia as a Gilbert and .Sullivan
comedian.
There is what is known as a Pink Permit
in connection with the movies in parts of
the U.S.A. This certificate provides that
youngsters shall not be admitted to view,
though dad and mum may be. Rut why not
blue 1
Louis Bradfield, the dapper, gentlemanly
little player who scored when the London
Gaiety Co. was here 25 years ago, still looks
so young that he was lately barracked in a
Yorkshire theatre for not being in khaki.
When he had finished his song-nnd-dance he
assured the interrupters that his sou was
representing him in France; and as a final
effort at conviction he removed his wig and
showed himself for the bald-head he is.
Sydney James and Jack Waller are to run
a season at the Palace (Sydney) in June-
July. “Look Who’s Here” is the piece (a
“revuesque” they call it), and the co. will
include Madeline Rossiter, Connie Milne,
Cecilia Gold, Ada Smart, Sylvia McLeod,
G. W. Desmond, Gregory Ivanoff, Fred W.
Bennett and the Purple Band—the last-
named a novelty which the ex-chief of the
Strollers has up his sleeve.
Asche is responsible for two of the biggest
shows in London at the present time. His
own “Chu-Chin-Chow” is packing His
Majesty’s, and at the nearby Daly’s a new
musical comedy, “The Maid of the Moun-
tains,” has just been staged, Oscar doing a
rival management a good turn and “produc-
ing” it. In the latter piece, by the way, tin
leading man is Arthur Wontner, who toured
Australia with the Julius Knight-Maud
Jeffries co.
“Lud”: For the “command” performance
of “Caste” before the King and Queen, the
all-star bill blazed like this: Polly Eccles,
Marie Tempest; Esther, Winifred Emery;
Marchioness, Genevieve Ward; D’Alroy,
Herbert Tree; Hawtree, George Alexander;
Eccles, John Hare; Gerridge, G. Giddens.
It was the biggest thing since King George
and Kaiser witnessed “Money” together. No
manager could look at the salary list of
such a co. Yet these All-Star affairs art
never really good. No finished team-work
about them". Marie is certain to declare that
“Caste” was far better in its last long run
at the Haymarket, when she was Polly and
Cyril Maude took Eccles.
Business, Robbery, etc
Adelaide Stock Exchange is 3U years old
this year, and Whitmore Carr, on being re-
elected president for the 14th time, dug up
the story of its beginnings. The original
number of seats was 50 —raised almost at
once to 65. The price started at £25 jumped
to £5OO within six months (the Broken Hill
boom was on), and has since touched £lOOO.
For the last 17 years the Exchange has been
in its present building—with a club—which
cost over £12,000. Only four members of the
original 65 remain.
The advantage of having a Government
whose principal members arc notorious Free-
traders is that subordinates develop a sort of
unconscious bias in favor of imported goods.
That probably explains why the Customs re-
cently passed a consignment of Yankee nails
in kegs branded. “British, Melbourne, Made
in U.S.A.” That the Customs knew what it
was doing is shown by the fact that it told
the importers “this must not happen again” !
[F. C. Jones, Elgar Street, Bunvood, Vic.]
> r * ♦
“Marloo”: At last a Judge has kicked: —
Prior to dismissing the jury in the Gloucester
cattle-stealing case, his Honor made a few remarks
about cattle-stealing generally. That class of mis-
take was becoming so prevalent that it was scarcely
any use trying cattle-stealing eases. If a man took
someone else's cattle and got through it was all
right; but if he was caught it was a “mistake.” That
was the position.
Hardly one Quarter Sessions has been held
on the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) for 20
years without a “duffing” case or two, and
not 1 per Cent, of them have led to convic-
tions. It is almost impossible to sheet the
charges home owing to the loose dealings
between auctioneers and cattle-dealers. The
auctioneers deliver to dealers mixed lots
without supplying the brands. On the way
to the run the dealer, if he likes, can usually
pick up a couple of strays. If he gets
through, all’s well. Should the owner, after
much trouble and more luck, discover the
whereabouts of his kine and prove owner-
ship, then it’s all a mistake. Time after
time juries have refused to convict iu such
cases; and the failure of prosecutions is so
common that scores of suspicious cases never
reach the courts at all. If auctioneers were
compelled to furnish brands to buyers—
which they could easily do from vendors'
travelling statements —the cattle-dealing busi-
ness might again become respectable, and the
Law might have a reasonable chance of
putting cattle-duffing down.
“T.0.D.”: The efficiency experts of our
business houses ought to study the regula-
tions governing the counting of words in
telegrams. A liberal Department that isn’t
paying its way has given traders many con-
cessions, such as counting “f.0.b.” as one
word, the grouping of farthings, pence up to
elevenpence, and figures up to 99 as one
word, the counting of "post office” in an
address as one word, and many others; yet
most business houses don’t appear to know
the points. Lots of people write “nine-
pence,” “three farthings,” or “f.0.b.” as
separate words, and thus say less for their
9d. or bob, or get charged Id. a word extra.
Don’t tell me the counter clerk should correct
these mistakes. Get behind a busy counter
and try it yourself.
"Country Red” : Few of us have any idea
of how much our country can supply iu the
way of raw materials. Here is a case in
point. When the Vic. Education Depart-
ment started modelling in schools the only
clay to be had was an English production.
Then Fred I’. . Vize, of the Eclmca Art
School, got to work and invented a com-
pound. using potter’s clay as a base. Inci-
dentally, in his search for the right kind of
local oil, Vize tried “gohanna” juice, but it
wouldn’t do. Now, there are two Australian
clays on the market. Both (hooray!) are
frankly advertised as Australian, and cost
3d. less than the English, though it is the
Australian stuff which is honestly worth the
extra money.
*• * * *
“R. 8.”: Rust having “pinched” millions
of bushels of wheat this year, until the grain
was no bigger than caraway seed, many a
pious farmer with good insurance cover has
prayed earnestly for a fire to break out in
the neighborhood. Still, it did seem a bit
.over the odds for the Adelaide paper to print
it this way :
BEREAVEMENT CARDS.
Mr. , of , wishes to sincerely THANK the
Neighbors and others who lent valuable assistance to
put out the Fire iu his Wheat Crop on January 16,
1017.
“Sniktaus”: “Quidam” (B. 22/3/T7)
wants to know the drug content of “the
century plant.” The plant belongs to the
family Amaryllis and is characteristic of hot
and arid regions of N. America. Best-known
specie of the family is Century ( Agave
umerica na) , oue of the most important eco-
nomic plants of - Mexico. Principal drug
contained is saponin. Maquey is agave
juice in a concentrated form and is useful
in acute and chronic congestion of the
kidneys, in nephritis and diseases of the
bladder. From the fermented sap is pre-
pared pulque. This tipple contains, in addi-
tion to saponin, phosphates of magnesium,
potassium and calcium, together with 4.7
per cent, alcohol. It’s a powerful nutritive
and stimulant, and is successful in Bright’s
disease. Pulque is drunk in Mexico City
like beer in Melbourne —consumption aver-
aging about two quarts per mouth per day.
Taking it on its Mexican merits, I reckon
it’s to be recommended as a fine revolution-
maker. Mezcal, another concoction obtained
from agave, is a distilled drink resembling
rum. Neither of these stiffeners will ktfop
long, and so cannot be carried for great dis-
tances. If “Quidam” wants the process of
manufacture I think I can supply him.
"May D.”: The handy-to-town orchardist
who had planted melons found them a good
stand-by this season. There was little de-
mand for soft fruits from the factories, as,
iu most cases, they had plentiful supplies of
pulp left from last year, but the man with
melons found ready buyers. Oue grower
near Penrith (N.S.W.) had 15 acres of
them, and on the Sydney market they
brought 10 shillings a ton, and they ran 40
tons to the acre. Freight was heavy, but
labor costs were insignificant.
“T.0.D.” : The heads of our service have
just issued stern instructions about paper-
saving. One of the sub-heads grabbed • a
whole blank to write an officer a memo, on
the subject, but suddenly thought of the per-
sonal application of the order. Whereupon
he tore the blank in two, wrote on one half
and dropped the, other piece in the W.P.B.
“Stapleton”: The N.T. should bo a great
fibre-producing country. Marram grass and
sjsai hemp flourish, and at least two indig-
enous plants—wireweed and fanpalra—are
used by the blacks in making dillybags. Also,
the native grass that grows from six to 16
feet in length, is made into baskets which
will favorably with any southern
specimens. Kapok and cotton are also grow-
ing wild. Unfortunately the principal items
are wanting—experienced men and money to
finance their schemes. There are fortunes
waiting for those bold enough to start the
production of string, rope and other fibres.
* * # #
“D.F.” : There is plenty of room for im-
provement in the handling of that part of
our great timber resources which isn’t turned
into smoke, according to Pengelly’s, of Adel-
aide. who annually use about 7000 ft.
of Tasmanian timber, mostly blackwood
and “Tasmanian oak” (stringy-bark in
the vernacular), in their furniture fac-
tory. They say that the Tasmanian
sawyers spoil about half the timber
they get hold of, and the firm is talking of
starting a couple of mills of its own in the
Speck. The manager reckons that there will
be a good market in America and Europe for
all the blackwood and “Tas. oak” that the
firm doesn’t want for itself.
* * * *
“H.P.W.”: “H.M.’s” Wagga share cocky
(B. 22/3/T7) is not alone in his experience
of the Wheat Pool’s erratic methods. A
Tamwortli (N.S.W.) farmer had let to a
share-man a paddock which he couldn’t
cultivate himself because the Government
hadn’t paid him for the previous year’s har-
vest. The share-man delivered his half of
the crop to the agent, and was docked -id.
per bushel for not being up to f.a.q. The
farmer’s half —exactly the same in every
respect, except for the brand on the bags—
was delivered a week or two later, and was
docked from sd. to 9d. per bushel. Of
course the owner kicked like a mule ; but it
was useless. His fiery verdict was “No
more wheat till the Pool’s methods are
altered.” There are plenty more of the
same mind.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Hume Bros, are pushing ahead
with the Australian-invented cement pipe,
though the scarcity and famine price of the
wire used for the framework is bumping up
the cost of production. They are now
turning out pipes in Adelaide, Melbourne
and Hobart, and are putting in hand works
in S’Africa and Maoriland. The backbone
of the pipe is a sort of steel-wire cage built
up over a frame. This is shoved inside a
cylinder; you make the whole thing, revolve
about 350 times to the minute, pitch in your
cement, and in a few minutes the pipe is
done. It is claimed that the result is as
good as an iron pipe, and, with wire at
normal prices, about half as cheap. Any-
way, the contract for the Hobart Corpora-
tion’s new pipe-line with cement pipes is
£17,000, while the lowest quotation with
iron pipes was over £30,000.
THE ANSWERED PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A goodly man was Brother Best;
ile preached with zeal, he sang with zest,
And always when in any doubt
He trusted prayer to help him out.
So when lie lost his skewbald horse
lie prayed much as a thing of course
That Heaven in its bounty might
Provide a neddy over-night.
Next morning once again he prayed.
A horse beneath his window neighed,
Ami, looking out, “Praise Thee!" he said
A nag stood on his parsley bed !
Best took the nag, and chained him straight,
And drove him early, worked him late.
He carted in the turnip yield.
Ho hiked the milk, he ploughed the Held.
Then came Joe Mill. With wicked force
He winded Best, and took the horse.
’Tvvas not enough lie stood bereft —
They cited Brother Best for theft!
He 'scaped the gaol, but dearly paid.
Said he: “Mill, are ye no afraid
You’ll suffer sore for this offence?
Eh, mon, ye're floutin' Providence!"
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
MOUTH PATRIOTISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This year pears are so plentiful that the growers
are appealing to the public to aid in clearing the
supply. Victoria’s experience, and the experience
of Canada, where an apple-eating campaign succeeded
in absorbing the surplus two seasons ago, suggest
that an appeal to the public will do for the glut of
pears what it did for the superabundance of
apples.— Argus.
Each citizen who chews a pear
Will help some grower on his way;
Victorians are called to bear
The eat and burden of the day.
They will the country’s welfare suit,
And bring themselves much joy to boot,
Who munch this unforbidden fruit.
' While politicians eat their words,
Ours is a nobler duty far.
His jaws each loyal burgher girds,
His dinner-waggon to a star
He hitches, and turns to the right,
Armed with a great Australian bite,
His patriotic appetite!
vjCTOai*
HARRISON O.


mum
$
w
-—■— k,J 5s c
-s*
(2)
&
O
%
J j
arr
k A\v' >
%
&
KxC
m
m
sag
ffizna
mill
(cr/'cCc
SrtfV'Cx
iiumiinnUHiiiillHilllllllliiiili
<X
T' s
<0
v.
Vj.
'A
<3
ialks acfain.
B.T.H. MAZDA TALKS AGAIN
Allow me to point out a charming little domestic scene —and
see what I’ve done for them. I’ve installed a 50 candle-power
Mazda Lamp that’s a cheerful factor in their home. Do you
realise what a depressing influence a badly-lit room has on
your life ? Instal B.T.H. Mazda light, and be happy. See they
have a little electric toaster, too —a neat, quiet, efficient little
fellow that makes the finest toast imaginable. They make their
toast as they want it, and they get it hot.
Also you will note they are prepared for the winter—
they have a G.E. Radiator which produces a pleasing warmth
without ashes, dust or danger from fire or explosion. Aren’t
you going to instal electricity—what ?
5/AITH «-
JULIUS
Australian- General Electric-0
Wentworth Ay Sydney, C«?of Queen *. Little Collins StMelbourne,
Jfefiresenting cßrltisfi Ohorn soruJioast ore G? Cxd
OTHER AGENTS: _
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co.
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Eindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd,, Eaunrestons Messrs,
and Oliver, MneQuarie Street. Hobart.
Ltd-
Oliver
• R.UGBY •
ENGLAND
BRJSBANE (Q ) The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.).
PERTH* Av aT. r u f" d Ch »«-lotte Streets.
A DEE AI nr ts A ; h L" 8 f ®°* < W -A>. Ltd.. Hay Street.
U tAIDE (S.A.). Unbebaun & Johnstone. 100 Currie Street.


A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15et. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut. Diamonds,
Rubies or
Sapphires
Oval Cluster
Ring, iBct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
AU Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut, Diamond
Cluster Ring,-
ISct. Gold, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS, Diamond Merchant
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Necklace, luet., Gold.
£22/10/-
Diamonds and Pearls, £lo.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond
Cluster Three-bar Broach, 15ct - Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Ex-
panding- Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, Lever move-
ment, t ompensation balance, Oet. gold throughout,
£7/10/-
loct. gold throughout, £l2/10/-. Other designs,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6, £7.
Saunders’ Lady’s 15ct. Gold, Patent Ex-
panding Watch Bracelet, full jewelled Lever move-
ment set with Olivines, Red Stones or Pearls, £l2/10/-,
£l5 £l7/10/-. Diamonds and Rubies, £2O. All
Diamonds, £3O, £lO, £5O, according to size of diamonds.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond and Pearl
Necklace, Isct. Gold,
£B/10/-. All Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut
Diamond Bar Brooch, Isct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Five Pure
Double-cut
Diamond
Ring;, Iset.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut, Diamond
Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, loot. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut, Diamond
Crossover
Kins, iSct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Three Pure
Double-eut
Diamonds
Ding, 18ft. Gold,
£35.
Tf-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Ex-,
panding Wristlet. Watch, full jewelled Lever move-
met.t, compensation balance, 9ct. (told throughout,
£B/10/-
15ct. Gold throughout, £l2/10/-; extra movement,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, Isct. Gold, £l5.
Larger Diamonds £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’ Double-
row Half-hoop Ring,
sot with six Pure Douhl('-cut
Diamonds and six Hubies,
Sapphires or Olivines, 18ct.
Gold. £6/10/-; All Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-, £l5,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds and
Rubies, or
Sapphires
Marquise
Rilia;, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure, Double-cut Diamond
Half-hoop Bracelet, lset. Gold, £25.
Set Pearls, £5.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite
Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Pure jJouble-cut Diamond
Bracelet, loot. Gold, £5O. Larger Diamonds, £65.
I®®
m
.
Can
Stop that Husky Croak!
EVANS**///,*
*antisepticTH ROAT
Sore Throats quickly
yield to treatment which
removes the cause by killing
the germ.
Evans, Sons, Lescher & Webb, Ltd. London.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
25 O’Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated. 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over £>o
engraving's, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Mkrrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Du.
Lamartine's Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s ARy of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen tiie
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of tiie Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. 'Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatcbford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught. 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
If. posted. House Painting and Papering. 1/2.
m
S 3
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Ceriturv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
bookseller to the commonwealth, -ms
Prop. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and Mow
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Am vi’eurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
I>3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4 /-. Poultry Keeping. 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic. 1/- posted.' The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter. 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-To-Date,
113 po s ted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy. 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan nan 's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Lears.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Odd Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, J/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook. 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors. 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
67 # 69 Market Street, Sydney <only)


Speedometer
for Ford Cars
£2|17|6
This special model of the famous Stewart Speedometer is designed lor
Ford Cars.
It is constructed on the magnetic principle —the principle that has proved
far and away the most satisfactory for speedometers.
One has only to take note of the number of cars on the road that are •
equipped with the Stewart Speedometer to see how wonderfully popular it is.
The reason for its popularity is its splendid efficiency. It is easily the
most practical instrument on the world’s market.
A Ford owner requires a good speedometer just as much as any other ,
car owner.
He should keep track of his tyre mileage; of the quantity of petrol and oil
that his.engine is consuming; and should have a record of the efficiency,
economy and performance of his car.
He can only do this with a good speedometer.
Nine out of every ten car-owners prefer the Stewart for this purpose. It ;
will give you the same satisfaction as it gives them.
Obtainable from your local Store or Garage.
If unable to obtain locally, write to
BENNETT WOOD LTD.,
284 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
or any Leading Motor-Accessory Healer in Australia.
Every article branded "Stewart" is backed by the “Cooper’*
organisation.
Headquarters: Berkhamsted, England.
Branches at London, Chicago, Montreal, Paris.
Australian Branch :
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
v l.
If any illustration appearing in I'iie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black. M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian \nox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. AFPERLY, Secretory
Accumulated Funds, £35,000.000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,G70,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
-yf
u
arm
•iit
n
RZ m ijfit ton > Repeater and a Boy
HIS is the true combination for a good time; for
getting the lads out into the open; for good, health-
ful exercise that trains the faculties and helps to make
useful citizens.
A Remington UMC .22 Repeating Rifle has a solid breech, is
hammerles3 and beautifully designed and finished.
Send for catalogue post free.
The Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
MWfl
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
AVON
/V TYRES
More Miles for Your Money.
TkeCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
r Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/G enrh.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
"1
I
xcv
Here’s
relief from
thirst; here’s
fresh
for the boys
at the Front and
workers at home!
xc
WRIGLEYS
Soothes, refreshes,
and sustains through
weary hours of sus-
pense and struggle.
It helps appetite and di-
gestion too. Delicious and
antiseptic wholesome and
beneficial.
vcx
MADE
IN
AUSTRALIA
Sealed
tight
—Kept
right
v
A boon to smokers. Send some
packets or a box to your soldier
lad.
Chew
it after
every
meal
3d. per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners, etc., or send 3 penny
stamps for trial packet to J. C. Gambles
& Coy, Commerce House, Melbourne,
The | Flavour Lasts !
75
\
u
v
A
m
fU
I
%
&
m
%
1
n
/
/#-•


[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Fehrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
HOYT'S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours —12,000 feet of film —8 to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
A DEPOSIT OF
17 6
£4
£8
£43
£B7 10
£875 O
For War Purposes only.
will purchase a Cert
ficate for
7
15
15
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all Information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
COMMONWBALTB BARB OF AUSTRALIA. thth March, 1917
POLITICAL
POINTS
Significant remark of Ex-Postmaster-
General and Labor-pioneer Spence:—
This is not a Fusion. It is a combination of two
distinct parties, each retaining its identity, but
arranging to sink their differences during the war.
Precisely; and that explains why the Gov-
ernment cannot have a policy and cannot do
any work. It depends for its very existence
on two parties, so diametrically opposed in
thought that for most of its life one lot has
been trying to get the other lot —Spence’s
lot —in gaol as dangerous criminals.
Willie Watt, of Balaclava (Vic.), gives
his platform opinion of the two Federal
parties:—• '
Labor: A party which claims that it can fight
the Avar with one hand and its political antagonists
with the other.
Phewsion: A party that is resolved to do the
nation’s work, and so far as possible fo stifle all
internal domestic politics.
Just like the late Russian Government did,
in fact, and just like Germany has been try-
ing to do. It is to be hoped Willie Yvatt
is satisfied with the company he keeps. All
the same, he might observe that neither the
Czar nor the Kaiser have found the results
of “stifling all internal domestic politics”
very encouraging.
Thus Catts, M.H.R. :
He was in charge of voluntary recruiting in N. S.
Wales for about nine months. On March 15 last year
he had 15,000 men who had been three months wait-
ing to be examined. Two thousand men who had
been accepted for special arms of the service, after
leaving their employment, selling up their homes,
etc., were told on the date upon which they were to
report themselves that they could not be taken on,
as there was no room. He had placed offers for three
battalions of Light Horse before the authorities, and
they were refused. He had been asked to slow down
on recruiting in Bathurst, Armidale, and Newcastle
districts, and a general system of retarding recruit-
ing efforts and diminishing the number offering was
followed for months by the military authorities. In
May last year he had discovered that, without con-
sultation or warning, the military authorities were
working out a general policy of stopping the whole
recruiting campaign. This was partially rectified as
, a result of vigorous protests by himself to the
Minister.
Now, there’s a specific charge, made by the
late Director of Recruiting, against the
Defence Department. Because of the office
Avliich Catts lteld it demands a reply. If it
is true, Pearce, the head of the Defence De-
partment, ought to be in gaol. If it isn’t
true, Catts ought to be there. If no answer
to Catts is made, then the electors can
decide for themselves which of the two the
door should close on.
[P. T. Freeman, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
The Russian patriot has evidently heard
of Andrew Fisher’s offer of “the last man
and the last shilling.” He hasn’t got a shil-
ling, as a rule, but he offers his last sovereign.
Fat, thinking of the Avar, whispers this
behind the hand : “Use!”
Archbishop Mannix, of Melbourne, Avho
is agin Conscription for “this sordid trade
war,” is still noisily protesting, “I control
only my own vote.” Quite so; and if there
Averen’t thousands of brave men busily trad-
ing lead for him, he Avouldn’t have it to
control.
Thus, sorrowfully, the S. M. Herald
The growing load of taxation has not yet begun
to chafe and grind through to the irresponsible
masses of the population.
Noav who is the old girl talking about?
That section whose exceptionally costly mil-
linery and furs have been so graphically de-
scribed by Mr. Jeames in connection with the
Easter Avar-time racing carnival?
Frank Foster, Avho used to be a N. S.
Wales Labor M.H.R., can’t find any com-
fortable place in politics nowadays, so he has
started “the Australian People’s party” at
Condobolin. There is a lot in. Foster’s policy
that this paper agrees with. He Avants
unification and reconstruction—that is, the
abolition of State Parliaments and the estab-
lishment of local governing councils
Avith wide powers—and he longs to
abolish the unnecessary middleman bv a
Avholesale system of co-operation. Aus-
tralia can do with a lot more educating on
those points; but apparently it will have to
look to some other party to Avlioop for High
Protection —Foster doesn’t include that in
his platform.
HER REGAL WAY.
On May 5 would depend the question whether Australia was to go forward on her regal and conquer-
ing way or to fall into the backwash and stagnate.— J. Cook.
(P.B. —The management begs to announce that owing to unforeseen circumstances
Miss Australia is unable to undertake the part of the queen, and therefore begs the
kindly indulgence of the audience.)
[MICK PAUL, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
The Phewsion has just discovered that
Bendigo needs a Commonwealth sanatorium
for the treatment of tuberculosis. Corrup-
tion? Bribery? It is most unfair to even
think of such a thing. Can’t these coinci-
dences happen without anybody being sus-
pected of unpleasant practices?
Mrs. Ready, wife of the Tasmanian ex-
senator, turned up at a political meeting in
Tasmania the other night and challenged
Senator O’Keefe to make a direct charge
against her husband, who, she said, was still
ill and unable to appear on a platform. Mrs.
Ready is entitled to a lot of sympathy. Her
husband’s old colleagues of the Labor Party
asked at once for a Royal Commission,
which would have given him a chance of
clearing himself; and it whs simply because
that inquiry didn’t suit the Phewsion’s book
that Ready and his wife have had to suffer.
Brazil and Bolivia have cut off friendly
z-elations Avith Germany, too. It seems a
fair thing. Germans hinted long ago at
South American conquest, in defiance of the
Monroe doctrine, and the prospect doesn’t
look any pleasanter hoav that S. America
knoAvs Avhat German conquest means.
Holman is off to England at last, and
mighty glad of an excuse to be out of the
Federal election campaign. Ostensibly Hol-
man goes to “get into touch Avith the money
market,” and the joy of Hughes at Holman’s
sudden leap toAvards Avhere the voice of
Australia is not being heard is simply tre-
mendous. These tAVO are so fond of one
another- —-Hughes’s fondness for Holman has
groAvn greater than ever since Holman led the
rebellion of the politicians against the little
autocrat just prior to the Conscription Ref-
erendum and compelled him to cancel all his
beautifully-contrived censorship regulations
—including the amazing regulation that no
nasty thing was to be published about the
little autocrat himself.
The “old Liberals” are beginning to curse
“this fusion business” already. What it
means for Laborites, not merely to come
over, but actually to be given charge of
the party, has been shown in N. S. Wales,
where the Fusion party proposes the aboli-
tion of the State Governors. This has
moved old Canon Boyce to a tearful half-
column of prayer and expostulation in the
papers. But it’s all no good. The dear
old Canon’s milk has been mixed with rum;
and it can never be plain milk again.
The Win-the-War party is bogging into the
business all right. The other day a few of
its barrackers gave 20,390 guineas for 128
yearling racehorses in Sydney.
In answer to a question put to him at
Chelsea (Yic.) the other evening W. H.
Irvine stated that “he could not speak re-
garding preference to Japan or the reopening
of the tariff, as his lips were sealed owing
to the secret session.” So the electors are
placed in the position of a man whose em-
ployees have been forming themselves into
juntas and entering into business arrange-
ments behind his back and without his con-
sent ; and when he asks the nature of the
arrangements he is informed that they are
a private matter between his own employees
and the rival firm.
[B. J. Harrison Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road,
Elwood, Vic.] f
G. A. Maxwell, the most humorless bar-
rister in Victoria, who is the Phews candi-
date for Fawkner, put the matter this way:
William Irvine, when he said that they should
refuse to accept the verdict of the people on Con-
scription, went too far. Would it not be better for
the _ Hughes Government to be returned without
raising the issue than for it to be turned down on
the issue, and have their opponents get in?
In plain words: “Don’t let's tell the public
what we think about Conscription. If we
told ’em they might defeat us; and it’s far
better that they should vote'in the dark for
us than in the light for our opponents.” It’s
a cynically frank exposition of the Phew-
sion’s political morals, anyhow.
They call themselves a Win-the-War party
now, but they slunk in the rear when Labor
was doing things. Had the “Liberals” had
their way there would have been no Sydney
to smash the Emden, nor any Australian
navy at all; neither would there have been
clothing or harness factories. While some
of these stalwart “loyalists” are screaming
about England and the Empire, they might
stop to offer John Bull a word of condolence
about the Dreadnought they wanted to offer
him instead of providing an Australian fleet
—and would have offered but for Labor’s
saner policy.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar Street, Burwood, Vie.]
“O.Iv.”: Why should it not be honestly
admitted that President Wilson and his
political intimates were scared into declar-
ing for war? Time is no longer fighting on
the side of the Allies: it is fighting for a
draw. Now, America was alarmed at the
possibility of a draAv. “If tve go doAvn it
Avill be your turn next,” yelled Winston
Churchill to the complacent New Yorkers
ere the war Avas a month old. It took two
years for the warning to strike home; and
then America Avas ready to take up arms on
behalf of democracy, civilisation and human-
ity. America Avas the slacker among the
English-speaking nations. But she was open
to reason, whereas the hardened indivi-
dual slackers hereabouts are only open to go
to pony races.
It seems to be the correct thing for a
“Nationalist” candidate to —er —suspend
his views. Thus laAA'yer MaxAvell tells the
electors of FaAvkner that, though “he had
always opposed preference to unionists, he
would be no party to interfering with that,
if returned.” It is going to be a remarkable
collection altogether. Everybody is expected
to take his most cherished belief and tie a
string around its little neck and suspend it
from the rafters till the war is won. No-
body is going to do anything else—but every-
body is going to get at least £6OO a year for
doing it.
Frank Anstey supplies the “argument”
with which Hughes choked off the Labor
Caucus’s demand for a Protective tariff —
“a certain power” objected to Australia giv-
ing any preference, even to Britain,- that was
not also granted to herself, she being an
ally. So, because “a certain power” wants
preference if Britain has it, the Hughes
conclusion is that nothing at all can be done
for Australia. The idea of protecting Aus-
tralian industries against both Britain and
“a certain power” is evidently quite beyond
the understanding of Hughes—naturally
enough, Hughes being utterly unable to get
the Australia point of view.
These “loyalists” are always getting into
trouble. A parodist named Arthur Wills has
lately been sending little yaps to the Argus
in support of the unwholesome Phewsion.
The other day Wills offered an excruciating-
bit of mauled Kipling, containing a reference
to “the English flag.” Forthwith J. P. Wil-
son, long-time headmaster of the Presbyter-
ian Ladies’ College at East Melbourne, arose
in wrath and knocked the fatuous Wills in
the dust with this: “The Union Jack is not,
and never was, the ‘English’ flag. The
attempt to make a part include the whole is
just a remnant of that hateful ‘English’
policy which has long kept Ireland discon-
tented and still irritates every loyal Scot.”
At that point the ignorant and dusty Wills
probably began to wonder whether the “Eng-
lish” had been the tremendous success he
had thought.
We make tarpaulins in Australia —at
least, we do when we can import enough
material. Canvas is the base. Australia
imports the canvas and coats it with a local
waterproofing. If the canvas supply runs
short, there is nothing doing in the tar-
paulin industry. It is a stupid business.
Australia could grow, her own canvas-crop,
but her political leaders preferred, before the
war, to encourage the overseas farmer and
cheap laborer. Then the war arrived and
Britain prohibited the export of some of
Australia’s canvas supplies, wherefore to-
day the farmer alone is losing tens of thou-
sands of pounds’ worth of stuff through Avant
of tarpaulins. Meantime Cocky is being
assured that his sensible course is to vote for
the Freetraders, masquerading just now as
a Phewsion.
THE VISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A curious dream before me slione.
To cultiA'ate his many acres
A farming man had called upon
The ploughmen, sowers, diggers, rakers.
They 'bid in hundreds round about,
All Avildly eager for the billet.
Each swore he was Avithout a doubt
The best to dress the soil throughout,
And most successfully to till it.
lie chose a number from the croAvd,
And sent them quickly to the sorving.
They went en masse Avith language loud,
And started chopping, digging, hoeing.
But presently quite frantic grown
They all set up- a senseless smother.
Each tore out Avhat the next had soAvn,
Or Avith a huge, umvieldy stone
Destroyed the plantage of the other.
If one produced a tiny shrub,
And voiced its Avorth in accents Avheedling,
Another Avith a giant club
Straight pulverised the little seedling.
The rabid men strove everyAvherc,
Regardless quite of time’s effluxion.
They SAVellcd their chests, and sawed the air,
And bade the boss observe with care
Their very perfect voice-production.
They oft Avould form in rival rows,
With verbiage of maddened parrots,
To countenance or to oppose
The planting of a plot of carrots.
The farmer, angered by their row,
Sat on the fence, and vainly hissed ’em.
I Avatclied it all Avith . troubled brorv,
Then yelled Avith joy: “I know it now.
It is the splendid Party System I"
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


ft
■
4
EC
WE SELL ON
TIME PAYMENT—
Chappell,
Behning,
Laffargue,
Estey,
Sanies,
Victor and Belling Pianos.
Also Estey Organs.
PALING’S r., PIANOS
AND
PLAYER PIANOS.
This is the first thought that comes into the minds of thousands
upon thousands of people when Pianos and Player Pianos are
mentioned. They Know by personal experience what magni-
ficent Pianos PALING’S sell how wonderfully they last-
how their tone-quality Keeps beautiful and sweet and how
PALING’S carry out their guarantee honestly and faithfully.
IS NOT THIS THE HIGHEST RECOMMENDATION
for you also to purchase your Player Piano or Piano from
PALING’S ?
YOU ARE GUARANTEED that the instrument is soundly and
solidly constructed throughout, and as for value such won-
derful value cannot be obtained elsewhere. ,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE & PRICE LIST-FREE
W. H. PALING <&. CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
AND AT BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE AND LISMORE.
Don’t Lose Your Temper
with a Razor that loses its edge. Buy a Razor that
keeps its edge, and keep your temper.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is one of the very few makes that a shaver can rely
on. The marvellous finish and tempering of the blade
■has made it a friend indeed to thousands.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
V-
x\
It’s a Masterpiece
The “Plum” Razor
v
«
Tr A AJUPkJE J
[PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP
0,
V
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
THE “SKANDIA” IN WEST AUSTRALIA.
PEARLING SCHOONER—3O-h.p. “SKANDIA.”
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
2 Necessaries
for Every
Household :
Cornwells Extract of Malt
Cornwells Pure Malt Vinegar
1. The best Tonic and Body-
builder for Children.
2* The most savory and purest
Malt Vinegar for Adults.
Obtainable All Grocers,
Stores.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO,, PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlillTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
53
B
MOTOR
...CARS
SPORTING
NOTIONS
On the third day of the A.J.C. meeting it
rained at Randwick as if all the wet up aloft was
being dropped in one place. It came down in such
torrents that MucShortodds tied himself to a life-
buoy and did business* under shelter of the veran-
dahs adjacent to his usual pitch. The day’s sport
was more like a day’s swimming than anything else;
yet 15,000 citizens turned up in the breakers and
saw it through to the bitter end. The All Aged
Stakes was run that afternoon and was an intensely
interesting race. The Held absolutely disappeared
in a rain squall while making the passage between
six and seven furlongs, and it was only after the
horses were right abreast of the judge that fears
about having to telephone for boats and life-savers
to rescue missing live stock evaporated.
The A.J.C. Cumberland Plate, three miles,
was a fool of a race. There were only three
starters for the £l5OO prize. They went twice
round in a solemn procession—Ulva’s Isle. Green
Cap, Fortune Hunter—and at the finish Green Cap
left the others and ran in an easy winner. After the
first mile what was going to happen was clear, and
so far as the public was concerned the event might
just as well have been called off at that stage of the
proceedings. The winner was really the only one
of the three up to w.f.a. form over such a journey.
It was too far for Fortune Hunter, who, in any case,
despite what happened in the Autumn Stakes, is not
a w.f.a. horse, and Ulva’s Isle has done his dash.
As-" Green Cap had won the Cumberland Stakes, two
miles, on the third day, the cheque to owner Timms
practically wipes out the £3OOO he paid for the
nag last year. But the probability of this happen-
ing was not made apparent by the running in
Sydney Cup. In that event Green Cap was only
noticeable because of his absence from the proceed-
ings at the business end.
* * * *
In addition to Thrice another smart two-
.vear-ohl from Victoria was running last week at Rand-
wick. This was Broken Glass, the well-named colt by
Eye Glass —Explosion mare. In the Nursery Handi-
cap on Saturday, one mile, Broken Glass did a
remarkably fast run over the last half-furlong and
outed Bronzetti, who up to the final few strides
looked a sure winner. Jli. K. S. Mackinnon’s Dun-
tulm (Mountain King—Cesa.ria’s Daughter), the
highest-priced yearling sold at last year’s Randwick
sales, got into third place. He cost 1350 guineas
and has still to win* But there is plenty of time
yet.
“0.K.”: Broken Glass, the patiently-kept
good thing- for the Second Nursery, is happily
named on his breeding (by Eye Glass —Explosion),
but on his appearance the dandy little colt should
have been named Monocle. He is the nattiest of
youngsters, pretty enoiigh for a circus performer—
true son of the Eye Glass that Ernest Clarke raced
some years ago. The English horse was gotten
by Isinglass, and the S. Australian colt has inherited
stamina from his grahdsire. Eye Glass, in his
time, made one or two attempts to win Cup races,
but could never quite stay 12 furlongs in the very
best company. All the same, he won an Adelaide
Cup, 13 furlongs, with Bst. 121 b. up. There was
a lot of talk about Broken Glass at the V.R.C.
Autumn Meeting, but he was then said to be not
quite ripe for a dead-sure victory.
* * X- *
There were some unlucky horses at the
A.J.C. meeting, and Cetigne was one of them. A
third in the All-aged Stakes, won by Whitefield, was
his share of what was going. On the last day he
was made a hot favorite for the Place Handicap,
though why this should have been so Heaven only
knows, for no horse ever looked more unlikely to
run out a mile and a furlong than he did just before
the race. But as the crowd at Randwick usually
bets without seeing what it is on, perhaps it didn’t
matter. Anyhow, he never had a look-in. This
was a queer betting race in every way, the public
rushing a jaded horse and Jetting The Christian
Brother (who put in a fine run behind True White
when that animal bolted with the City Handicap)
go as a despised outsider. But he won well and
brought great joy to the heart of Ike.
Horses that before the meeting looked like
winning at Randwick —King’s Bounty, Court Jester,
Cetigne, Lingle, Spurn, Remmon, Chantemerle, Col-
bert, Woorak, First Principle, Polycrates, Ulva’s Isle.
None of them did any good. On the other hand,
there was one horse which had supplied no reason
why he should be expected to do anything at of
the ordinary. He was The Fortune Hunter and
did big things. His showing at Rosehill was poor;
his work on the track dead ordinary. One morning
just before the meeting he declined to gallop. All
of which goes to again prove that track form is
often losing form, while many races are won in the
wrong place. The Victorian-owned Whitefield was
expected. to get away with something at the meet-
ing and did, but not what the stable expected. He
was backed for the Doncaster and got third. He
was backed with the right stuff for the Flying on
the second day and stayed at the post. In the All-
Aged Stakes he was let run loose —and won.
* * * *
When this paper remarked a while ago
that big Whitefield, with his sturdy hind legs,
looked just the sort of animal to win an uphill
race on a wet course, it gave a straight tip for his
triumph in the w.f.a. event the other Wednesday.
* * * *
That nowadays rare animal a good ’chaser
seems to have come to light in N. S. Wales. This
is Old Mungindi. He transpired in the First Steeple-
chase at Randwick, with 9st. 71b., and started at
12’s and 14’s, most of the cash being for the
Victorian Rayon d’Or and the S. Australian London-
derry. The N. S. Wales horse with the absurd
name made hacks of them. For doing this he
was burdened with lOst. 71b. in the Second Steeple-
chase, half a mile further, and did it some more. In
both races he hit the front a mile from home and
outjumped everything else in the field. The new-
comer is by Poseidon from Gret, and was put to
fences after proving deficient in pace on the flat.
Learning to jump has not made him any slower.
* * » *
At the A.J.C. Autumn meeting 24 races
were run. Three imported horses won four races,
Green Cap annexing a double. Of the remaining
races three were won by two horses claiming Aus-
tralian sires. All the other winners went to the
progeny of imported stallions.
Though Sydney Cup and the Doncaster
are regarded as the chief events of the A.J.C.
Autumn Meeting, neither are so well worth winning
from an owner’s point of view as the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, which this year was worth £3336 to E. E.
D. Clarke. Thrice’s victory and his win in the
Champagne Stakes placed this owner at the top of
the list for the meeting with £5821. A. Wood
(5) and Bob Lewis (4) were the leading jocks.
Total stake money was £32,054.
The astute Eric Connolly has something
of the human weakness of owners in general where
his horses are corcerned. He was quite per-
suaded that Court Jester ought to have beaten
Harriet Graham in the Australian Cup, whereas
other people reckoned that the mare should have
won more easily than she did, seeing that she was
nearly on her nose at the back of the course. And the
other people were right, for Harriet gave the
.Je another 31b. and beat him quite comfortably
in Sydney Cup. The colt is likely to improve a
little more thin the older mare, but he is hardly
big enough to get into the w.f.a. class.
A humorous incident of the Easter Mon-
day racing at Randwiek was the jockey’s explanation
of Whitefield’s refusal to leave the barrier for the
Flying Handicap. “Whitefield made up to the old
official horse on the inside of the barrier and would
not leave him,” said Cairns. The old chap evidently
got talking to his new mate. “Goin’ to race, are
ver?” sez he. “Well, more fool you! Why not stop
’ere wif me?” Whitefield saw the force of the
suggestion, and stopped where he was. Horse-talk
is full of horse-sense.
* * * *
Woorak has run his last race. They gave
him a flutter in the Final Handicap at Randwiek,
and the handicapper did a graceful thing by dealing
lightly with the little fellow. But it was not to
be. lie ran in front until a furlong from the
line and then faded out. The rest of his days will
be spent where he was foaled —at the Windsor stud
(Vic.). Woorak, at his best, was one of the greatest
sprinters known on the Australian turf, and perhaps
the freest galloper seen on the Randwiek tracks.
In his four years’ racing he won over £r.7,000.
Besides annexing many coveted events he ran an
extraordinary number of seconds.
* * * *
Lingle has gone into a new stable and will
run in a new ownership. Perhaps the nag will not
be so much talked about now. For some reason or
other Lingle’s miss in the Autumn Stakes was very
popular.
* * * *
“Polycrates”: They've been at it again.
Because two couples were spliced at an up-country
N. S. Wales town half the residents, including the
lady who lives at the parson’s, backed Wedding Day
for the Doncaster. The hatter down the crick who
puts in half a day a year looking for gold staked
his shirt on Fortune Hunter for Sydney Cup. That’s
the kind of rabbit-oh the bookmakers have a keen,
portmanteau ear for. I know one idiot who backed
Camp Out for the Cup because he was going on a
four-days’ fishing trip to Shellharbor. Also, he had
a saver on Yankee York beause America.had declared
war. A Marrickville man whose proposal of marriage
had been coldly received the previous evening
plunged heavily on Spurn; and the rector of St.
Potiphar’s, whose word rivals that of G. Washington,
told me that Green Cap shortened six points in
the betting because a man walked up Pitt-street
wearing an emerald-colored head-dress. The rector
said it was a hard job to get into Tatt.’s for an
hour and Timms’s horse would probably have
touched even money only some kilties with bagpipes
happened to pass the Club, and the run on Highland
Band saved the situation.
“0.K.” : Some time before the moon grows
cold and the stars are old punters will weary of
their old belief in Redfern and Lingle. Why they
should continue to back the costly English horse
as though he were a proved good one the Lord and
the owner and trainer only know. Since he came
to Australia the narrow-chested gee has done nothing
of the least consequence, and he is seemingly a
second-rater. Public faith in Lingle, who looks
good enough for anything, is not so hard to account
for. All same, it should now be frankly ad-
mitted by his'patient worshippers that the handsome
black is not the flier and stayer they were led to
suppose him. Lingle seems to come always with a
bit of a run towards the end of a race when some
of them are falling back, and a coming-on horse
passes them in what appears to be a brilliant manner.
But the run is never sufficiently long or strong to
do the trick. My idea is that Lingle, being a good
weight carrier, will always appear to the best advan-
tage in w.f.a. and welter races; but as a Cup horse
he will never be what his late owner thought him.
“Musketoon” : One day last week a well-
known nag, Muriate, starting at an outside price,
romped home in the Grandstand Handicap at Cowra
(N.S.W.), much to the joy of I. Mo. Farilone ran
second, Red Velvet third, and a red-hot favorite,
Dogwood, fourth. But when the numbers went up a
great yell shattered the atmosphere in Israel, for the
judge placed Dogwood first, and didn’t give Muriate
even a place. As the lawgiver flatly refused to alter
his decision, Mo had to shell out. There was no
imputation whatever of dishonesty against the judge,
and pretty well all agreed that it was a case of
mistaken identity. I remember a case almost similar
at Wagga (N.S.W.) in the years agone. Bira, a fine
big chestnut, owned by Mick Nash, of Yass, and
ridden by Mick Hines, won comfortably, Ted Davis’s
Satisfaction finishing third. The judge placed Satis-
faction first and Bira third, and would not alter his
verdict. The books were jubilant that day, for Bira
carried a ton and Satisfaction was practically un-
backed. Nash retired from the turf, took on stock-
dealing, and can now write a cheque for thousands,
so that judge did him no harm. Ilines is now a
trainer at Rosehill, one of liis team being The Black
Nut, who swam in a winner at Randwiek last week.
* * * *
Racing coincidences are always obtruding
themselves on the notice of punters. For instance,
the first three horses in the Doncaster had each 10
letters in its name, and Wedding Day meant a
triumph for the Fortune Hunter. But the most
wonderful coincidences are reserved for rifle-shooters.
The other day the V.D. Camp at Langwarrin
(Vic.) had a match on its own range with a
Mornington club. The teams used .303 ammunition
and they both scored 303. Providence probably
arranges these things in order to provide conversation
for the simple-minded.
* * * *
In the Great Eastern Steeplechase at
Onkaparinga (S.A.) on Easter Mondav, the ancient
Tramp (Merry Pilgrim—Madam Richelieu) got a
cheer when he showed himself on the course. He
was making his seventh appearance in the event.
He first started in 1910, when he ran unplaced.
He secured third money the year following; moved
up to second place in 1912; moved up one more
and won, with lOst. 121 b., the next year. He was
third once more in 1914, and next year scored
another win, this, time with list. 81b. up. Tramp
is now 13 years old. He shouldered list. 131 b. in
this season’s race and managed to get the course
once again, though far behind the leaders. The
old plodder may win once more before his remarkable
record closes for good.
The surprising one-day-a-year race meet-
ing at Onkaparinga (S.A.) drew only 20,000 people
and a £20,000 tote on Easter Monday—each of
these the smallest for 10 years. The Cup was won
by Beauty Spot, a level-money favorite. For the
Great Eastern Steeple, 3 J miles, over a hilly country
with diversified jumps, Timms’s Maorilander, New
York, had the steadier of 12st. 61b., and did not
finish. Artillery Bill carried most money, but Flash
Jack, second favorite and second topweight, won
comfortably. For once there were no falls. The
winning owner is Captain Alan Currie, a Victorian
now at the war. Bracegirdle, riding The Navy, did
a real circus performance, covering the last round
without either bridle or stirrups. He was of course
unable to pull up after finishing, and his mount
bolted with him among the picnicking carriages on
the hill in the middle of the course.
There is a straight-out law against betting, except
with the tote, in South Aus. It may not be observed,
but the police do their best. The morning after
Onkaparinga the little local court got busy with a
score of bookmakers arrested on the course, and fined
them about £l7O, the penalties ranging from £35
for a hardened offender to £1 for a youthful sport
who, being obviously a minor, was tried in a hastily-
constituted Children’s Court.
“Les O.”: The Sowden Steeplechase
neddy that “won by half an hour’’ (B. 22/3/’l7)
doesn’t hold the record. This belongs to a horse
which won by such a long time that the judge failed
to remember the animal having passed the post. It
happened over 40 years ago on Parramatta race-
course, and Parkes’s old friend Hughie Taylor was
judge. The committee had backed No. 5 for the
mile-and-a-half heat, but No. 13, a rank outsider,
reached the winning post long before the others hove
in sight. By-and-bye the rest of the field came
thundering along, and duly in front of them was
No. 5, whose number was cheerfully hoisted. When
remonstrated with later on Ilughie was leaning
against a tent-pole. “No. 13,” he said. “Clean for-
got ’im! Ponmeonner—clean forgot ’iml” At the
club’s next meeting Pillbox won a race by lengths
from Roanej'. For good and sufficient reasons
Roaney’s number went up, and when someone asked
Hughie at the refreshment depSt what about Pillbox
he expressed the utmost surprise. “Pillbox! Why, I
never saw ’im. He must have been goin’ terrible fast!”
But there came a sad day later on. The committee
backed Artist for every available penny to win a
hurdle race, but that reliable lepper shied off and
bolted clean into the adjacent river. Harry Fullagar’s
Councillor came in first, and, after it had been
ascertained positively that Artist could not arrive,
the grey’s number was hoisted. When the little
coterie assembled that night in front of Ilughie’s
butcher’s shop to talk things over, along came the
jockey who rode Artist, arm in arm with a pair of
Ikes. One of them explained, “He’s been swimmin’.”
They rattled their pockets and passed on.
* * * *
They get their share of comedv at up-
country races. At Corack (Vie.) in the holiday week
there were only three starters in one of the events, but
the fun was all right. One horse early ran off the
course. The other two finished first and second.
Then the rider of the second was disqualified for six
months. A subsequent race brought out a field of
two. After the number of one of the performers had
been hoisted as the winner he was disqualified for
going the wrong side of a post, and the second got
the stakes.
The start for the first race at the Ascot
(Vic.) pony meeting the other day was delayed
through the jockey of Lady Fortune fracturing a
log in a collision. A fresh rider had, of course, to
be mounted. The new man’s name was Hale. Many
punters, ever on the look-out for signs and portents,
took it as a tip and backed the mount. And won at
sevens.
* * * *
Leger winners this season consistently
eluded spotting. In Victoria the odds-on Wolaroi
was bowled over by the despised Colbert. In Sydney
Colbert was made favorite and Thana pipped her
stable companion. In W.A. Bardem proved one too
many, in a field of four, for another odds-on favorite
in Irish Comedy. So backers were on the wrong
side of the Leger all the time.
* * * *
Darcy got upper-cut again last week in
the pocket-book—this time by the Governor of
Louisiana, who prohibited a match between the
young man and his old friend Jeff Smith. In view
of what happened in Sydney it looks as if that
Governor is a wise guy.
* * # »
The argument between Harry Stone and
Benny Palmer at Melbourne on Saturday was incon-
clusive, a verdict for the U.S.A. being received with
a loud bray of derision. The decision of Solomon
would probably have been a draw—if Solomon could
have been induced to see the thing through. But
most - likely the wise old Hebrew would have taken
Benjamin and Henry aside at an early stage and
exhorted them to hurry up with something that
would knock one or other into the Land of Nod
according to the law and the prophets of Bash.
Dave Smith is once more heavyweight
champion of Australia. At any rate, a meeting
between Dave and Albert Llovd'at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday was stated to be for the championship.
Smith got the verdict. He deserved it. But that
does not imply that the conflict either looked any-
thing like a battle between champions or deserves
to be put in such a category. Lloyd fought an
utterly brainless fight. He is a hefty youth with
a powerful smite, with advantages in weight,
strength and staying power over David. A week'
or two previously he made mincemeat of Colin Bell
by wading in and handing out punch. This was
obviously the tiling to do with Smith. Lloyd
started to do it at the opening, and had Dave "in
serious trouble. Then, because Smith started to
push his left out and show a desire to box, Lloyd
cheerfully obliged by falling in with the other
fellow’s ideas. Frequently he repented and separ-
ated David and his wits with a wallop, and every
time this happened he held off and waited for a
resumption of hostilities. And Dave, being an ex-
perienced and crafty performer, kept out of .trouble
and bluffed and fooled and stalled Lloyd off all the
way through, even when at times he was almost top
tired to stand. How much intelligence the younger
man possesses is not known to the writer of this
paragraph, but that he was wearing a bone-head on
Saturday was as clear as that he fought exactly the
way Smith wanted him to.
*** • *
“Bob D.”: No, the nets are not entirely
to blame for the absence of fish in Narrabeen Lakes
(N.S.W.). What does more than anything to clear
out the fish is the opening of the lagoon a couple
of times a year. I have seen thousands of fish swept
out to sea that way, and a friend of mine, who
stretched a net over the mouth of the lake when it
was opened, got about a hundred in half an hour.
All sorts there were —mullet, freshwater flathead and
whiting. I reckon 3000 fish a day must, be carried
out of the lake that way.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: Some fishermen say that the
great sand-worm of the sea-beaches occasionally
attains a length of nearly sft., but the largest speci-
men I have seen stretched 2ft., or a little more. Drag
a lump of raw meat over the sand at low water, and,
if you are lucky, the feathery head of the worm will
emerge in obedience (it is said) not to sense of
smell or sight, but to “gustatory impulse.” That is,
the creature’s mouth waters. There is a knack,
acquired by practice, in getting the worm out of the
sand. Some fishers employ pliers, but the generality
use the thumb and first finger. Quickness is essential,
for the worm will shut up its long, opalescent body
concertina-wise if it suspects capture. It is, like the
pippy, fine bait for whiting, black bream and other
“blue-blooded” fishes. The pippy (or pipi) usually
inhabits the same quarters as the worm. Run a
knife-blade along the sand and you will generally
strike a batch. But the best implement for the
shellfish gathering is a rake with narrow spaces
between the teeth.
it * * *
Victoria’s State-Ex. Stanley lias been
fishing at Portsea, where the Mackinnons have a
humpy. His Ex. was plunged into grief through
missing a 301 b. (exceptionally loyal citizens allege a
401 b.) snapper. After playing the fish for about
half an hour, vice-royalty hauled to the surface a
head —nothing more. A shark, entirely devoid of
respect for the Throne and Person, had helped itself
to the rest.
* * * *
“V.” : Australia generally regards the
snapper as its particular property, but the West
Indies also claims the species. Writing nearly 100
years ago on Antigua and the Antiguans, an old
author says: “Snappers, hinds, silks, mullets, doctors,
.angels, old wives’, nurses, Spanish mackerel, etc.,
are among fish exposed for sale in the Antiguan
markets.” Of these varieties neither doctors, hinds
nor silks are found in our seas. That writer also
mentions king-fish, barracouta, grouper (groper),
cavallie (possibly trevally), yellow-billed sprat and
jew-fish, the last “commonly weighing from three to
four hundred pounds.” A strange superstition
attached to the appearance of jew-fish at the island.
It bespoke the death of some magnate, and when
one of these fish was captured “all the old women
laid their heads together to plan out who is to die.”
The flesh of the barracouta, we learn, is poisonous,
“attributed by some persons to their feeding on
copper banks.” The true barracouta, however,
is, of course, edible, and the fish described is
probably the barracouda, a West Indian armed with
formidable teeth and dangerous to bathers. “The
parrot-fish is the most beautiful of its tribe. Its
scales are of the deepest emerald, and its eyes,
composed of different-colored circles, are as clear as
crystal... .but the flavor is so rank that it is never
admitted at any respectable table.” The parrot-fish,
or urasses, are, in fact, a large family of rainbow-
hued fishes which inhabit tropical and sub-tropical
seas, the blue groper being the largest and least
ornate of the tribe. The white shark of the Indies
runs from 25 to 30 feet in length. The flesh of
young sharks “stewed down with rice or sweet
potatoes forms a savory supper among the Antiguan
negroes.” This interesting account of Antigua con-
tains ( inter alia) the genealogy of the Warner
family, starting with William Warner, “of Fram-
lington, Co. of Suffolk, Esq.,” and passing from
Sir Thos. Warner, first English Governor of the West
Indies (knighted by Charles 1., 21st Sept., 1029),
to the Hon. Ashton Warner, Speaker of the (Antig-
uan) House of Assembly (circa 1.733), and so on in
time to the plucky and pliant batsman of our own
time, “Plum.” It is noteworthy, by the way,
that the long-forgotten scribe labels our celebrated
red fish correctly, viz., “snapper.” Modern writers
who ought to know better often spell the word
“schnapper.” The snapping bite of this fish is
unmistakable, hence the name. It is time the gin-
flavored cognomen was dropped.
“Tam O’Shanter” : Five-pound trout? Allow
me to introduce Big Ben of the Mill Hole, Eucum-
bene River, Kiandra (N.S.W.). At least that is
where he hung out a few years .ago, and no doubt
he is still there if some low-down trick has not been
played on him. Expert anglers estimated his avoir-
dupois at from 201 b. to somewhere about light jockey
weight. Some of Ben's nieces, taken from the same
address, went over 101 b. Harry Evans, stationer,
Goulburn, can certify as to the weight, for it was
his money that bought the best-catch trophy some
six or seven years ago.
Newcastle fishing enthusiasts, 50 of them,
cast their lines in Stockton Bight on Saturday, in
competition for a trophy. Apparently a wireless
had preceded them, for the catch amounted to four
unwary shrimps. The last the party saw as it
turned homeward was a hairy-faced jewfish putting
his thumb to his nose.
* * * *
Alick Wickham’s attempt to submerge the
professional 100yds. swimming record at Rush-
cutter’s Bay (Sydney) on Saturday, almost reached
success. Cliff Lawes owns the figures (60 l-10sec.) ;
Wickham did the trip in 60 l-ssec. Earlier in the
week Wickham had a pipe-opener winning the Rand-
wick and Coogee League 100yds. championship in
62 2-ssec. from IV. Clauss and C. Lovelace. It
certainly looks as though the record isn’t out of
the range of the dusky sprinter.
* * * *
“W.N.R.”: Moonie River Jack, a noted
Bananaland athlete, swimmer and buckjump rider,
was erecting a staging for drawing water and had
just dropped his hammer in the river, when a couple
of acquaintances happened along. They watched Jack
undress, saw him dive and waited without excitement
for a minute or so. Then one pulled out his watch
and both started to get uneasy. When 15 minutes
had gone and they were about to start off for help,
the watching joker bobbed out from behind some
driftwood, and holding up the hammer, shouted, “By
Whatsisname, it took a bit of finding in the mud !”
The honest witnesses of the “dive” have since been
doing their best to get shed audiences to accept it as
a world’s record.
* * * *
Motor-cyclist IT. A, Parsons added another
to his list of road records with a fine burst at
Mortlake (Vic.) last week, when, attached to a side-
car, he whizzed through 66 miles of mud in 84min.
27 2-ssec. The shake-up ho got in the recent
attempt on the Sydne.y-Melbourne record appears to
have only sharpened his appetite. The 200-mile
motor-cycle handicap was the other draw-card, and
‘B. Eckhardt, with 22min. handicap, defeated 16
others in 3hr. 49min. 29sec. Eckhardt clapped on
pace at the rate of 53m. per hour, whereupon all but
five of his pursuers decided to save their petrol. The
Barnet Glass tyre assisted the scoop.
* * * *
O. Asher’s seven wickets for 37 against
Glebe on Saturday decided the matter and gave
Sydney the cricket premiership for 1916-17. When
play started, Asher had one wicket for 18 runs; and
a further coup of six wickets for 19 on the after-
noon wrecked Glebe badly and Sydney won by 44
runs. Sydney’s unbeaten season’s record of nine
wins and two drawn games is the club’s first success
since 1901-2.
* * * *
Sydney premiership cricket “bests”: Bat-
ting—lndividual score, E. L. Waddy, 193 ; 16 cen-
turies, double-scorers being E. L. Waddv (193, 120),
J. S. Taylor (126, 109), R. Bardslev (111, 109),
A. Ratcliffe (130, 120). Bowling—Match, B. J.
Folkard (11 for 45 and 111 for 59) ; innings, J.
Scott (6 for 7) ; wickets in match, W. S. Dight
(12 for 127). The most charitable bowler was
J. Scott, who gave away six no-balls in the last
match and did his best to aid the opposing side many
times. ,
# * * *
“Aleyon”: Re flying shots. “The Shooter’s
Year Book,” published by Curtis and Harvey, has a
table of allowances to be made in aiming for birds
crossing at 40 miles per hour. Using No. 3 shot at
a range of 20 yards an allowance of 3ft. Bin. is
necessary; at 30 yards, sft. 9.6 in.; at 40 yards, Bft.
2.6 in. With No. 6 shot at 20 yards, 3ft. Bin.;
30 yards, sft. 10.9 in.; 40 yards, Bft. 6.lin
* * * *
Marcel Dupuy, the French cyclist, who
recently won the six-days’ bike-riding lunacy in
N’Yark, has been disqualified for life by the Union
Velocipedique de France, on the ground that a
Frenchman capable of winning such a contest should
be at heme service- his country.


cxv
Good Health
is within YOUR reach.
Good health waits on good digestion.
Good digestion is the result of sufficient and proper exercise,
therefore good health is within the reach of all.
If you wish to become strong and healthy—to be always
physically fit—you must have proper exercise. Lack of
exercise means poor digestion—poor muscular development—
insufficient strength to ward off the many complaints to
which mankind is susceptible. Get strong and stay strong.
My Postal Course of Health 8 Strength Exercises
will make you fit, and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen, and unseen,
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a -copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the
system—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling
waste tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part
of your body.
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let me send you a copy of my Booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.” It tells all about
my health-giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send
three penny stamps for postage. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement. I’ll know what you
mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
601 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Stfi
mz |NE
J
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
■Mil Imperial 03 Ce. UA
SAMSON HORNS
Every Motorist Wants a Hood Horn, and they
get it in the “SAMSON,” which can be used
in five different positions.
No. 35 "Samson-Tiger” (11'over all), 25/- each
N 0.36 “Samson-Tiger” (Motor r/cle), 24/6 each
No. 45 “Samson-Lion” ove' ill), 21/- each
No.46“Samson-Lion” (Motor-cycle), 21/- each
The above Hand Horns Post Freo anywhere in
Australasia. Vibrator and Motor Horns from
16/-. Ask for Catalogue No. 3008.
RAMSAY SHARP & CO. LTD.,
217 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Write for Appointment as District Agent.
c
ftp
No
trouble.
In every household there
comes the sudden emergency
when a child is seedy—a
husband is home late—
a wife has to be put on a
specially light diet. That is
the moment when Horlick’s
Malted Milk comes in so
handily. It is no trouble
to make, always proves
palatable, and can be given
with impunity to sick child,
tired husband, or dyspeptic
wife unhesitatingly, as it has
all the required ingredients
(Milk, Wheat and Malt) to
meet each case.
Ask for Hor lick’s
Malted Milk at the
Soda Fountain
Write for sample, sending
2d. in stamps, to Hutchin-
son &Co. Ltd., 26 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd., Lome
Street, Auckland, & Dixon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
r •!
o
1
#
ower
Makes “INDIAN” the Motorcycle supreme
on Hill, on Track, and with the Side-Car.
Catalogue 11 D’' with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.,
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Mllledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets,
ADELAIDE :
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Pirie
St
LAUNCESTON:
John King & Sons Ltd.. Charles St.
PERTH :
Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency,
Hay St.
PATON
8066
k
m m :
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations .
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
YOU GET THE BEST STYLE
—the Best Leathers, the Best Work-
manship and the Best Service in
Rigney Shoes.
They are made in all styles, shai.es and
sizes.
We illustrate a choice All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.”
Price - - 40)-
Postage 9d. extra.
vc
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Evermore
Smile
;Bii;a;i;»a»iaiKKWUW
You know this smile-hut do you know-
EVERMORE
STROPPER
Price J 5/ m
The only automatic Stropper
which gives the true Slyde-Stroke
so essential in sharpening any
raTpr.
Special adapters are provided
with each Stropper /or the
sharpening of any make of
sa/ety -razor blade both si nse
and double ecj^ed.
Arro\
Diago*
i
GOTHSIXWN ......
st Pom ’wiwn
] Ask Yourßmkr
to Demonstrate it
Dotted
Arrows yio
Diagonal
aomw'
<&w» :
wherv ftigW Kand
. 'wftrreloo3 0: p.o, Sydney
OR Sfflf MC€. £Oi ; • NEteL: Zealandm


Why Have Grey Hair?
When a simple, old-fashioned aiid harmless
recipe will correct it.
Few people know that grey liair is not a
necessary feature of age-—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few
nights with a small • sponge and you will
soon have the pleasure of seeing the greyness
disappear. This recipe is perfectly harmless,
is neither sticky nor greasy, and has given
perfect satisfaction for many generations to
those in possession of the secret. — Advt. [4
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
txjcrum
CURES ECZEMA.
Most of the wholesale druggists throughout Aus-
tralia are now stocking Exzerma, and the constant
and increasing demand has resulted in it being easily
obtained from chemists. Few remedies are more
effective in their treatment. Sufferers from long-
standing Eczema have found that Exzerma has not
only given them relief but effected a permanent cure,
and they have written gratefully of the benefit re-
ceived from its use. Write S. Fielder, Randwiek, for
particulars, [3
All Chemists & Druggists, or
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5k 2/6
r
r
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your 'whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so 'Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
TV
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10.000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO , Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich.
You can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from
all Chemists and Stores seliing
wines, prices 4 /- and 6/6, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, vyrite direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233, Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
vz>..
Carry an Onoto with you!
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills
itself in a flash, cleans itself in the act of filling,
and contains sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
Never leaks- always writes smoothly—an dis always read v
for writing. Can be filled from any ink supply withou
a filler, without mess or trouble, in five seconds.
Onoto
Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
British made by British labour.
Price, 14,6 and upwards. At all
Stationers, Jewellers, Stores, etc.
Manufacturers—Thomas de la Rue
* Co. I_,TD.,Bunhill Row. London, E.C.
Managing- Agents—Norman Baker &
T.onghurst, York Street. Sydney.
TT fifi rl ~ r
‘rsTTr:
mi*
~f J-iU
.'o' ''/['V'*: A- i • •
v* * r*Nx"* i .iJniHfi i'TTj, fT"
1:
: >:
";-v.
gg
w**
9
$SS|f
ivt&tes
Illi
v
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
‘Phosferine
V>/ B a
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h»s received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely agedNe w Lite and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes;—
“l have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.’
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES, M.D., C.M.,
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton |& Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your courtesy! if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the Icost of postage
i refunded to you. I |
EZL If VST
ULm l\i Si
Self-aligning Ball-bearing
Plummer Blocks
return 50%
to 100% on
your outlay
Adapter bearing
as used in
Plummer Blocks.
BY
Cutting your power
bill down
Almost eliminating
lubrication costs—
Doing away with
Attention—
This combination pays the cost of the
S.K.F. installation in from 9 to 18 months,
so is a sound business proposition.
Radial bearing showing
Self=alignlng.
Call and inspect the article itself.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
MELBOURNE* 57 Queen Street* SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street*
BRISBANE: 369 Queen Street.
St
Lime Juice
Brings to your Ups the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRA T is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
'/2
'€
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
With a fine regard for the fitness of
things, the quaint variety show in which
William Irvine and Tom Givens both do a
turn has secured the services of a well-
known vaudeville publicity agent as its
advertising manager down south.
Gone aloft, Capt. F. Holm, the oldest
skipper in the windjammer trade between
Maoriland and N. S. Wales, and a soldier
too. He reached Maoriland in uniform, and
fought in the local native unpleasantness.
His son, also Capt. F., is following in dad’s
steps, having obtained command of a ship a
few days after his 21st birthday—the statu-
tory minimum.
The public relishes the books of Ernest
Scott, of Melbourne Uni., and it would get
equal joy out of his “shop” lectures. They
are always well prepared—and well deliv-
ered, too, despite this Prof.’s inability to
sound the letter “r.” Every lecture has at
least one remembersome picture-postcard.
Lately, for instance, he ticked off the Turk
as “an indigestible morsel in the stomach of
Europe,” and pinned to the skirts of Queen
Katharine of Russia this tag: “She had the
heart of a fish and the morals of a suburban
cat.”
“P.11.W.” : Sapper R. Burns is one of the
Anzacs the Germans cannot kill. Wounded
in France on August 13, he was admitted to
hospital in England six days later with
severe fractures of both legs, one leg gan-
grenous, compound fracture of right arm and
other serious wounds. On the same day that
the arm was set, both feet were amputated
and the sundry perforations patched up. Then
came double pneumonia. Three months later
a further slice had to be taken off both legs.
Seven days after that the arm was broken
and re-set. With all wounds healed, Burns
has now embarked for Australia, a credit to
Australian pluck and stamina. And his age
—only 18.
E. W. Holden, selected by Labor to
oppose A. S. Rodgers at Wannon (Vic.), is
the young tombstone-maker who at the last
State elections fought W. Kennedy Smith, a
Packer’s Union organiser, at Uundas. Hol-
den looked a winner; in fact, he actually
was in possession of a Parliamentary rail-
way pass, when the absentee vote bumped
him back to his marble angels.
Australia has heard a lot about the
horses that a brilliant Defence Department
hired for so long and at such prices that
this bleeding country paid for them five
times over or thereabouts. Some day it
might hear something equally interesting
about the Naval Department. At present
the mouth of the critic has a padlock upon
it; yet the public ought to know that for
two years the Australian Naval Department
hired a small oil-launch to do patrol
work at a very important station. The hire
of the water-vehicle has been equal to the
purchase of a couple of launches at the very
least; and the launch still belongs to its
original owner.
Samuel Mauger, after having been freely
mentioned as a starter for the Senate in
Victoria, scratched himself just before the
final acceptances were due. The scratching
took place at the Temperance Hall, where
Samuel expressed some painful sentiments
regarding the Hold-the-Floor party, thus: —
Could any man with Liberal instincts, anxious to
support democratic principles, justify in the faintest
degree the modus operandi adopted for the selection
of the Senate candidates to represent what is called
the National party? No applications were called and
no public notifications were made. That self-consti-
tuted committee got together at the Grand Hotel, and
12 or 15 of them, representing several organisations,
chose the three candidates.
A cruel knock from a man who, at the last
general election, was one of the Senate Six
in the Liberal interest and knows the morals
of the Liberal stable from loft to litter!
“E.T.”: Interested citizens visiting the
Melbourne National Art Gallery and wishing
to inspect the well-known Gill water-colors
will find that the early-day collection has
disappeared from the walls. Should they
inquire the whereabouts of the treasures
they will be sent to the tower —for that is
where these “Gills” have been stored. His-
torically and pictorially attractive to the
great bulk of the community, they have
given way to exotics for which Australians
don't care a twopenny tram.
“Exile”: Two days out from Honolulu
one of the twin-screws flew off bodily. The
ship jumped in'the air three times as though
she had run over a whale, or hit a steeple in
Atlanta, the submerged city, or found a new
rock for the Admiralty chart. Then she
settled down smoothly, and the brother of
the errant screw set to work quietly to do
13 knots instead of 14. It was a pleasant
scare, and only meant a delay of 36 hours in
arrival at ’Frisco —which shows the advan-
tage of twin-screws.
“Te Babarantiko” : Fiji is the melting-pot
of the South, as the Hawaiian Isles are of
the North Pacific. Numerically the native
Fijian still leads, but the spindle-shanked
Indian, with his tiny wrist- and ankle-
ringed and nostril-ornamented wife and
their puny, fiasliing-eyed progeny, is fast
gaining on slow, moppy-headed Viti. In
addition to Chinese, and, as yet, a negligible
number of Japanese, we have not a few
Samoans, the noblest type of the handsome
Polynesian race, as the Fijian is the highest
type of the ugly Melanesian race. Also,
here are colonies of “Tokelaus,” under
which name the Fijian white includes all
races of the Central Pacific, north of Fiji.
With. a considerable sprinkling from New
Britain and the Solomons and some 4000
whites, there is no talk of “the purity of
race”, in Fiji. Variously-shaded half-castes
are increasing, though Indo-Fijian speci-
mens are few. The two races appear pas-
sively antagonistic. The alert, keen-witted
Indian is the desire of the planter, as he
is the bane of the white business man. An
indifferent “pay,” he is an adept at under-
selling the white merchant with that mer-
chant’s own wares obtained on long credit—-
and Hakim Singh can do well on an infini-
tesimal profit that the white man cannot look
at. With the exception of the mostly moun-
tainous interior, all of fertile and fair Viti
Levu is already a colony where Hindustani is
the business tongue.


MORE ORDERS FOR MEGGITT’S
111
1
V-='V
I> M <r DC" L LIN SG G n 01 1
\St
MI
w
L
ii
L—^
U
S.W. VIC. o
N
s
A
LAND.
w
A
Z
N
m
i
c
s
6
*5
5?»
•".V
'Cu
"Hi
VS
"v
r\
>v
Cc^
1
£
3
o
£
'/
£
2Z
OH
J&
I
s
N
S 5
S
S!
i
V/
if**)
MEGGITT’S Guarantee Pure Linseed and Exact Maturity
Which Mews BETTER SERVICE and WILL WEAR LONGER.
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL is manufactured from the Purest of Indian Linseed, and is Scientifically
flatured for Australian Conditions.
PAINTERS, MAKE AUSTRALIA PROSPEROUS BY INSISTING ON MEGGITT’S.
From all Stores or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
Xudivpv
N.S.W.


* $j
xcv
The least
exertion,
whether
it be
work or
p 1 e a s u re,
seems t o
quickly tire
you out and
makes you
feel weak
and languid.
This means
that both
your mental
and physical
vitality is
low. It may
be caused by too much work,
worry or pleasure, but a course
of
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE
The Great Nerve Tonic
quickly restores the system to
its normal condition, and gives
you the vim and vigor necessary
io enjoy both work and pleasure.
In cases of Indigestion,- Back-
ache, Malaria, Headache, Brain-
fag, Nervousness and Muscular
Rheumatism Fisher’s Phos-
pherlne is the remedy which for
forty years has been unequalled.
All Chemists and Stores, 1/- per
bottle. Four times the quantity.
2/6.
Chemists,
337 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W. F.149.P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
xcv
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Far Phono many tijnes as efficient
lueaia ‘“I rll O“ e and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane's leading Hotel now; i
publicly acknowledged to be the most
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is
personal supervision of the owner, A.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
n fact, it is
refined and
under the
FINNICJAN.
BRISBANE
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
tyONTSERRAI*
SAUCE
mSEm
v V° le
s \\C>
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
[lf anything in this column requires a signature,
S. H. Prior,. John Barr, E. O’Ferrall and D.
M. Wright, of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept
the responsibility.]
w s
THE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them”, what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. On the top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eye on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the ultimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting and so easy, that they feel just like one’s best-
loved-old pair,'yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well-made that they look and, after quite
a lot of wear, continue to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Hostock No.
P 6472
831
/
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock"’ on the soles.
cx
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
DRY CLEAN YOUR WHITE AND COLORED FOOTWEAR.—,
Ladies, dry clean your canvas and suede shoes and your cloth-topped boots with
ROSTOCK’S DRY CLEANER.
It is easy, quick, lasting and satisfactory.
Colors: White, Black, Brown, Champagne, Buff, Light and
Dark Grey, and Khaki. PRICE 6d.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
e
ne
ismi
' J
€201"
TJRuiv
iAIV
4
ft
V
u _
—■a
3S
y
On:
b
«*Tj <5
rr <t-C
Oq
X
S'
t
chO?
'W\v
d-
minus
\w
iVilltl
s*<s
*>•>»/)
-&■
M
Vh3
n
Minnmii\Uj
mm*
UNIQUE PROCESS FOR
RETAINING AND
REGAINING BEAUTY.
By Mlle. Charlotte Siriek.
Does your skin chap or roughen easily, or become
unduly red or blotchy? Let me tell you a quick and
easy way to overcome the trouble and keep your com-
plexion beautifully white, smooth and soft. Just get
some ordinary mercolised wax at the chemist’s, and
use a little before retiring as you would use. cold
cream. The wax, through some peculiar action, flecks
off the rough, discolored or blemished skin. The
worn-out cuticle comes off just like dandruff on a
diseased scalp, only in almost invisible particles. Mer-
colised wax simply hastens Nature’s work, which is
the rational and proper way to attain a perfect com-
plexion, so much sought after but very seldom seen.
The process is perfectly simple and quite harmless.
* "* * *
It is astounding the number of women who suffer
from unsightly growths of hair on the face, and it
will come as a piece of good news to know that
there is a simple substance known as powdered
pheminol which will remove it immediately and per-
manently. Mix a small quantity into a thin paste
with a little water, and apply to the objectionable
growths. In two minutes all trace of the hair will
have entirely vanished, and your skin will be as soft
and smooth as a child’s.
The hair should be allowed to breathe, and the
greasy film around each strand must be removed with
a mild non-alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be
tabooed. The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of hot water. It stimulates the
scalp to healthy action, and at the same time leaves
the hair in that soft, fluffy condition so much
admired. Any chemist can supply you with an
original packet of stallax, sufficient to make 25 or
30 shampoos.
One need not resort to the very questionable ex-
pedient of hair-dve in order not to have grey hair.
The grey hair can easily be changed back to a
natural color in a few days’ time merely by the
application of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from your
chemist two ounces of tammalite concentrate, and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply this to
the hair a few times with a small sponge and you
will soon have the pleasure of seeing your grey hair
gradually darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and dt>is not injure
the hair in any way. [2
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xame and address must appear on the. MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
.T.E.11. : (1) First, tell us what he has
done. Conscription?' He opposed it when it was
possible. Then' he went away, and when he came
back to preach Conscription found that his own
crowd was prejudiced against it because of the
company he bad been keeping. Even then it might
have been possible to carry it, only he blundered
and blundered again—the untimely calling up of
men under the Citizen scheme and the attempt to
monkey with the ballot-box arc cases in point.
Heaven knows this puper fought hard enough for
Conscription ; and at every point it found Hughes’s
blunders spoiling its hopes. (2) You want to know
another man to take on the job. What job? Win-
ning the war? Well, Fisher was Prime Minister
during the period when Australia supplied most of
its recruits; and there are plenty more men as good
as Fisher. The truth, however, is that Australia
doesn’t want one autocrat —it wants that less than
almost anything... .Dunderhead: Your mistake.
The man who prejudices recruiting in Australia is
the man who —probably like yourself—says that this
fight is “for the flag,” meaning the Union Jack.
The Bulletin says that, so far as we are concerned,
the fight is for Australia; and it was on the fact
that it was a fight for Australia, for our own homes,
that this paper argued for universal service. If
Australia had been kept in the foreground
Conscription might have been carried All
British: You evidently don’t know the gentle-
man. That’s the only difference between us.
. ...W.D.Mc.: Can’t undertake to explain why
pars, are not accepted or return those that are not
printed.... Edward B.: Thanks; but too indefinite
to be of any value... .Globe: Horrible 1 But they
would be pretty sure to demand your name, and
that might make things awkward... .E.L.: It’s pretty
bad... .Alfonso: Yarn too slight.... Sinbad : “Shores
which girl lifes sea of unrests”—we give it up....
A.C.M.: Kitten-buying- yarn won’t work. No candi-
date in this bright land could afford to buy votes
at a pound a pair... .D.E,: “Peaceful Bill” operates-
in lamentable verse... .M. 8.: Did you write that
verse? Don’t like it much, but seem to have heard
someone singing it before... .D.D.: Sorry; but
“Christmas in Sunny France” is not up....H.L.:
“The Stranger Speaks” nothing much and nothing in
the least resembling anything this paper publishes.
. ...Siri: The “Sun” screed isn’t prose and isn’t
verse. It is a cheap imitation of the cheap slobber
of words the cheapest Americans accept as poetry.
-‘The Show” not our style... . A.A.8.: Verse rugged
and thought thin. ... .J.R.H.: Long blank verse screed
is commonplace and even the easy metre falls down
here and there.... Murrabit: Gag too feeble... 11. W.:
“Love is Blind” is about the most original remark
in it; and that, observation isn’t exactly in its inno-
cent childhood... .C.G.R.W.: You relate badly a
number of commonplace details without the least
attempt to group them into a yarn A. 8.: “Gal-
lipoli” never got a worse handling than that even
when Xerxes brought his highly-flavored Asiatics
across... .G.E.M.: Mild verse with no force or pur-
pose. And watch your rhymes. .. .P.N.A.: They
don’t strike us.... Babe: You haven’t the knack.
Observe well and write simply.... N.V.W.: The
“dinkum” yarn isn’t amusing.... Swallow: Not our
style... .F.G.8.: Three stirring stanzas;—
Roumania and Bulgaria,
They fight like cats and dogs.
And the Kaiser’s willing
To make the people hogs.
For little, Montenegro
' Is doing all she can
To help the Allies flatten
The old Kaiser’s brigan’.
Portugal is helping
To sink the submarines,
Which are destroying helpless steamers
And stoutly built marines.
... .Warrigal: Old conventional yarn in bumpy
metre. .. .L.A.: Putting “hie” between every second
phrase of commonplace verse doesn’t make it humor-
ous.... J.K.: And so virtue was duty rewarded and
everything bad got blown to smithereens... .D.McC.:
“Dreamland Girls” just miss... .H.J.S.: Yes; every-
thing printed even in this column is paid for. Out
out and send to accountant.... Bellerive: The lines
on the tragic death of the young aviator move us
deeply
He sailed o’er the city,
To a great height did raise.
Till lie's machine seemed a speck
To the public’s gaze.
While looping the loop
During lie’s daring display,
He’s biplane broke above
The edge of the bay;
Into shallow water it crashed
After a rapid descend,
And appalling was the
Young aviator’s end.
Shadowed w-as the genius
By the cloud of doom.
To perish like a flower
In life’s early bloom.
....Half-moon: You’ve got the makings of a fine
sketch there. Get down to it. ... Shuttleton: Don't
waste good paper.... Butcher: “The dead are likely
to be more unpleasant than the living.” It depends,
brother. Now —but we’ll let the little man off this
time. [Signed to conform to the Commonwealth
Electoral Act by Martha Washington (married
woman) and John Barr, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
. ...C.T.C.: The humor of it does appeal to us. It’s
one of our happiest memories.... Eric L.: (1) No
good; (2) you couldn’t take that pen-name, anyhow.
.... Business Man: Can’t get the hang of your
grievance... .W.O’M.: Pretty scurvy treatment, cer-
tainty. But hardly amounts to a matter of public
interest... ,8.L.: Thanks for letter; but your brother
is so modest and cautions that he suppresses all
items that are of general interest... .A.P.R.M.: Like
a thousand other visions.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.C.T.: Nothing in the idea and the cartoon is a
crude thing... .G.H.T.: Why did you give the man
a camel’s 1ip?.... John K.: Don’t care for little
Johnny. He’s too much like a beetle... .A.D.: The
Kaiser may be dying but he isn’t out of perspective.
.....J.P.T.: Anyone could chop out figures like that.
. ...E.L.M.: They should have been buried with
8r0wn.... Designer of Cow Joke: Try a more agri-
cultural journal.... Mcl.: One is late and both are
inferior. .. .S.T.: Your bomb won’t got off here....
P.C.: Two of the jokes were well known to grand-
father. The drawings might have been done by
little brother.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP tIOME.
At the War-
V
s «{i?s
cfe
v£i
355-K.i
' ~ ,!**&?s* V
*
OOCO -
0/0 Vi •>
MS?»SS
3»
SsfeS
O,
S*£S
was
■’K'-.p.-
«ss
S4S
S' '-iv3& a^‘-*
Hk£» ladds sag
OfeA -m
Sr. <v
*s£«sfi
■,A.
mm
ssa
3S~S
ek • ****
'
&tv.-i«5
® t
«auns
//#*
- y /> -*
SftteSk-
/ ..
i *,
//
fe'!KC>
s■>
1
m
wm
4t>:
VMT
cm.
i'O
<\f:
£ff^S
V'S
mm^
|wiii«v'
's&S
!:■ •
WM^i
~&f.
V^s!
Hi
wl
"is 1
“lisif
»
S 3
REgiS
5*
■ raj
1
E
.
?#s
>V
:\S
»
v.:-"-
4*
v
K#T
SHI
o
a I
m
m
m
Wl
o
■■
X*
CB»S*^ tfs^W
u
■m.%
9
4B
ft
O'".
0
1
sse!s
3 <r*ss
<•>o*
->.
AOS
353
v.r
OfflWn.
J&e
A
te?
nil
m
.<•* “v ; '^f-
fcSrf!.
H
SS? -SK"
'////
!i
r.v&S’asK t !
JfJI :
IM
r M
»' ,
wiSM
i.\
mmm
(tear.
2- *• 4»5 %?
M
%.m
%<M
mm
&Sjs
mmm : W
% «
V \
m
m
h
■0 : :
Its
mwmm
\T
£ - y 2^V^ V 'A'S,iV' W.’:
MM
!hr: ! i
\ j
fr s
wm
hs
i
sa.
i..-^
£Sv =5
m
g|i|
•s.. t
t
as?
%m vt.% O&&XaM
.:-D &>jsL it, 34 V^&Vf.O\'
*. v ,, '•tOOMr i OO-
- - W\ OSiA
l vs
i '-.1
■ t\.
mm.
"V-
-'■; s
O'ft-
o
*«
**B*
it?;?
i&jfytx X
% --
‘l4
ftf
=WV*
m
«w
/.MI
SAsiVi
<1
®S»<
vT^>V-
iwiK<®
'0# r . t'
•4-,-
m
mm#
mt.
'
\£yv
wm
m
A'.str
»:»
. < t - > '->0
:'j -
p
■4«
m
{'i $ M&
>t;«3
•fy
f /
Cobra,” Tshe Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
K nows a sailor’s
Duty too.
When it’s dawn the
H oses play
And the swabs
Sweep dirt away.
Bear will have his
Little joke,
And it makes the
Foxie choke.
Chunder, over
His surprise,
Will not worry.
“COBRA” dries!


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraph;.’. Cabines-de-
Luxc. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
2,4, t> Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROIOH
BUNDABERO
*ROCKHAMPTON
(PI.. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
find other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, April 21.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, April 2
Leaves Sydney, April 28.
BURWAH (Cargo Only).
Leaves Melbourne, May 1.
Leaves Sydney, May 5.
MIiLBOURNK
(Transhippim; for
S.A. and W, A. ports)
* Passengers only.
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, April 21.
Full Particulars ft Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
flunking. Public Companies. Jfcc.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid tin £1,198,679
RESERVE FUND £95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George &King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet. E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New Soutli Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C, M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager; J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 353 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout. QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .... .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
AH new business since 189$ specially protected.
Directors— -Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
.las. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£2,000,000 0 0
1,900,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George .T. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox. Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
gank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. - ... .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. ~ 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
un Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
*at interest lor
1 fixed periods, and
'.ran«aots all other uiual Banking In: sines*.
Shipping Sc.
Canadian-Austraiasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to U.S.A.
Through Bookings to Any Part ot the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
. of the Pacific. ”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
ait
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Scrnl ior further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors ;
£3,705,320
£2,723,000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. .Tames T._ Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. Eosbery, C.Ai.U., M.L.C,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—Georg© st„, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.c.
338 Bran#hes and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J, RTTSBELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
v
JBank o( Australia
SYDNEY. |
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
At a. ll Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
ww in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 9°/
per annum **/«
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KEEL, Deputy Governor. June. 1916 DEN I SOX MILLER. Governor
THRIFT SUGGESTIONS
Thrift does not require superior courage, nor superior intellect, nor any superhuman
virtue. It merely requires a little patient self-denial. “BEGIN” is its device.
Even 1/- a week deposited regularly in this Bank will amount to £2O/10/7 in
seven years.
This Bank Offers You Every Facility for Saving.
Deposits received from
1/- upwards.
132 Branches and 500
Agencies throughout
the State.
$
Vi
IP
Or
03
tu
C 2
3*
s
N
t/4/o
INTEREST
ON
Interest paid at
3% % per annum on
every £ up to £5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping-
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, April 21.
-RUPARA, April 28.
PARINGA, May 5.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIL.L & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 IMIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
‘‘Zealandia,’' “Wimmera,”
“Ulimaroa/* •• Victoria."
"Riverina," “Westralia,"
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON, •
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME Ri CA-C A N A D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIyOCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COEE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwiiluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY’, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
«teamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : secoud-ciass rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 Ss. fld.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
xcv
THE “SMITH
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
lull particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
3
>
BEFORE
FOR
'quick results
USE
AFTER
(4PILLARINE
Have you noticed the popularity |
of the "short moustache? The best j
way to grow one is to use
CAPILLARINE. Rub it well into ]
the hair-roots. The quick results
will surprise you. CAPILLARINE
is a true moustaehe-giwver.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITREN,
654 George St.
SYiNiY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol*
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tbo
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


ECONOMY
s
o
Ex
Q)
it
3
cx
vcx
Micheli'n "lyres obtainable prom all leading dealers
Do You Really Know How To Shave?
So many men don’t, that this is not intended as a joke. Most men
take twice the time needed, and endure unnecessary torture..
As a test, shave one side of your face with the preparation you
now use. Then shave the other side with
mnrrat
SHAVING CREAM
vcx
v
nsnnsns
SHAMING
CTCAM
CnfMiCAuCa
NtUWRKftJUM
following directions with every tube. You will be astonished
at the difference —not only in the way your razor acts, but m
the way the two sides of your face feel. '
THE REASON IS
that Mennens is absolutely different in composition from every preparation It
took three years experimenting to perfect it. It softens the beard requires
bing in”—no relathering—no lotions.
Send penny
stamped envelope
for free sample of
MENNEN’S
TALCUM FOR
MEN.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
109 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Lower Cuba Street, Wellington, N. Z.
Trade Mark
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Ravy men.
Used since 15»6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
insist on 44 Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Files, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemist 9
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
PATENTED.
Make Your
Own Cans.
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is
1000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, prices and pictures of machines
adapted to your needs. Send us samples
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make.
Correspondence in all Languages.
Address Dept. C-14.
The Max Ams Machine Company
Bridgeport, Connecticut, U.S.A.
W. E. HUGHES & CO, London, E.C„ England, who also
specialise in Tin Plates and Black Plates, and solicit inquiries.
*
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne-
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Quests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day.
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. ÜBE SMITH. Manager.
xv
Abbey Shoes
Whv don’t YOU, too, wear Abbey
Shoes? Although they are so
superior in every way to the
ordinary run of footwear they
ai’e really the cheapest—judged by
the EXTRA SERVICE they give.
We assure you the greatest com-
fort and a perfect fit, because
Abbey Shoes are made in half- and
full-sizes and in three fittings—
Narrow, Medium and Wide.
We illustrate a Special Golf Shoe,
in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles .... 32/6
Light Soles .... 307-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.


WRITE THIS VERY
DAY FOR
Finney’s Gold Medal Furniture Book
WE’LL POST ONE YOUR
WAY WITH PLEASURE.
mT does not matter how far away you may live, this book
makes you our next-door neighbor.
It is filled from cover to cover with actual photographs of our
Gold Medal Furniture so it shows the Furniture as it actually
is and exactly what you will get when ordering from this book.
Don't even think of furnishing or re-furnishing until you first of
all get this book because between its covers you will find the
key to a happy, well-furnished home and at the least outlay.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO. LTD.,
“ WINNERS OF GOLD MEDALS FOR FURNITURE ”
FRANCO-BRITISH EXPOSITION 1908 AND PANAMA-
PACIFIC EXPOSITION 1915.
The Big' BlocK, BRISBANE.
\ \'
5^
> v
ij
IN BANANA LAND
“McL.”: I don’t profess to be able to settle
the question, but on all hands I hear gloomy
stories about land which is being pre-
pared for Billjim in Queensland. One
authority tells me that from £25 to £4O an
acre is being spent in making a pretence of
clearing land supposed to be suitable for
growing pineapples. Not only. I am assured, is
this land of poor quality, but fruit-expert
Benson has advised growers hot to plant
“pines,” as already the supply exceeds the
demand. In the North, at White Rock, near
Cairns, land is beirw thrown open to Billjim
for sugar-growing which John Mann, ex.-
M.L.A., a practical sugar-grower, declares
that no grower in the district would take as
a gift. Milieu, one of the Federal Ministers;,
is supposed to have general charge of the
repatriation of Billjim : but so far as I can
find out no attempt is being made to ascertain
whether these State Government schemes
are really for the benefit of Billjim or not.
In Bananaland there are a lot of people who
think they are for the benefit of the stay-at-
home unemployed, who get a job at clearing.
“Chink” : Brisbane is easily the prize city
of Australia in the matter of unreliable
public timepieces. There are half a dozen
persistently contradicting each other. The
big railway clock gets nearest truth, as a
rule, but the dilapidated two-faced recorder
at the G.P.O. practises I.W.W. principles,
and occasionally goes out of action alto-
gether. More weird still are the capers of
the tower-clock that pretends to serve South
Brisbane. It is seldom less than five minutes
behind or ahead of everything on the oppo-
site side of the river.
“Black Bonnet” from the Bloomfield: —
There are still some hard cases on the Bloomfield,
but not so many as there were a few years ago.
Neither are there so many mosquitoes as there are at
Cooktown, the place noted for glorious sunsets
and inglorious decays not to mention a playful
wind, which has blown most of the paint out to sea.
The “sensitive plant,” which made it difficult to find
your horses on the Bloomfield a few years ago, has
almost disappeared. The blacks are now very shy.
There have been wholesale deportations b.v the police
(one would feel happier about the poor creatures,
torn from their natural surroundings, if one knew
where they were taken), and they have had a sickness
resembling measles which has killed many. As
they consider death always to have been inflicted,
more or less actively, by some enemy, known or
unknown, Llie survivors of the raids and the malady-
are keeping close. It is now difficult to get one to
go through the scrub to Rossville, although pre-
viously they came and went freely. There's a chance
for the missionaries to comfort the poor, perishing
black fellow ; hut the honors. I fear, are too insigni-
ficant.
Q.E.D.
NEW PATIEN: “Now, come , Doctor, tell me if I have to look to you or the undertaker
to get out of this infernal place?”
Toowoomba lately absorbed several minor
municipalities and got itself proclaimed a
Greater Toowoomba. At the first business
meeting of the enlarged municipality the
Mayor announced that the existing over-
draft was £17,000, and the limit was £19,000.
It was then unanimously agreed to apply
for a rise to £20.000. A Bigger City is
evidently going to mean a Bigger Cadge.
“Platman”: I analysed the Queensland
House of Fossils the other day and dis-
covered that of its 39 members four are over
80 and 10 are 70 or over. The patriarch of
the tribe is J. Lalor, S 7 ; he is followed by
Cowlishaw and Brentnall, each 83, and B.
Fahey, 81. Cowlishaw has the longest ser-
vice, 39 years. Brentnall comes next with
31 years, and Taylor and Marks (both
M.D.’s) dead-heat for third place with 29
years. Angus Gibson. E. .T. Stevens and
A. J. Thynne have restricted “hasty legisla-
tion” for 28 years, and the rest various
periods, down to the latest-arrival,- .Tones,
recently Labor member for Maryborough, who
entered the venerable Chamber a few weeks
ago. To show the preservative effects of the
Council on the human constitution, it may
be mentioned that E. J. Stevens retired from
public life on account of ill-health in 1889.
and after 28 years of arduous service in the
Council is still going strong.
The Lands Department has some quaint
customers. Some time ago an eccentric old
Irishman acquired by private exchange a
scrap of Crown land in the Warwick dis-
trict. but failed to have the transaction legal-
ised by the payment of transfer fee. The
Land Commissioner wrote for the coin, and
got this back :
Sir, I am forty-seven years in this State
Who once had men and maids to on me wate;
But now I am on the indigent list,
From which X receive just enough to exist.
Therefore I cannot pay the transfer
Which to you in your letter did refer ;
What would be the use of that patch of barren
mounten
Which is over two miles from creek or fouriten?
I would like to have a patch of land free from rent
Whereon I could pitch my tent,
And live in it a hermit’s life,
Free from care and worldly strife.
So far there has been only one Premier
in Bananaland who was born in the State.
That was T. .T. Byrnes, most brilliant and
laziest of all its Ministers. Ryan is Aus-
tralian-born ; but he came up from Victoria,
to get warm.
Privilege battles for its life :
The Leg'. Council has thrown another bomb in the
shape of a writ against the Ryan Government, claim-
ing that the proposal to take a referendum on May 5
on the question of abolishing the nominee Chamber
is illegal, and demanding an injunction to restrain
the Government from allowing the electors to decide
how they are to be governed. The Fossils further
ask for a declaration that the Constitutions of,
Queensland and the Commonwealth prevent the aboli-
tion of the Chamber and that the Parliamentary
Bills Referendum Act of 1908 is illegal, because
the King did not put his signature to it. Then,
just to make sure about it, the Council, through its
agents, alleges that the most recent Electoral Act
passed by the Commonwealth prevents the holding
of the referendum on the Senate election day. The
Parliamentary Bills Referendum Act is the measure
passed by Kidston to amend the Constitution of the
State, when lie was meeting with a good deal of
opposition from the Council. It provides that any
bill which fails to pass both Houses in two successive
sessions may be referred to the people for ultimate
decision. Ryan seized on the Act as the only avail-
able means of dealing with the Upper House. He
introduced a bill providing for the abolition of the
Council, and as soon as it had been rejected in two
successive sessions lie announced the referendum.
Charleville.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tracks that run by Charleville are hungry tracks
and dry,
Mulga ridge and scalded plain, I>y drought and heat
accursed ;
It's steal your grass at every camp or let your cattle
die;
But oh 1 the pubs of Charleville were made to conquer
thirst.
Here’s how!
Wet your whistle now,
Whisky for a cattleman and water for a cow.
The tracks that run by Charleville go straggling up
and down,
Lit by scattered campfires of the drovers outward-
bound,
But from sandy Maranoa down to Cunnamulla town
The bush gives forth a swarm of men when race-day’s
coming round:
The old game!
Give the thing a name,
lloma wine or tanglefoot'? No matter—mine’s the
same!
The sleepy streets of Charleville lie drowsing in the;
sun,
Deep with dust in summer, and in winter caked with
mud ;
The very churches gape with thirst before the day' is!
done,
But no one calls for water when the Warrego’s in
flood.
Wliat’s yours?
Tally up the scores !
It may be dry for donkeys’ years, but when it rains!
it pours.
The bonnie girls of Charleville are filled with life
and joy ;
Laugh arid let the world go round is all the creed’
they know ;
Dance till dawn six nights a week, and every girl her!
boy.
But When they drop their .eyes it’s time to roll'your
swag and go.
Here’s luck !
Time to do a duck !
The roving man who marries heats a shorthorn bull
for pluck.
The pleasant town of Charleyille calls out for you to
stay.
There’s laughter and good-fellowship, come early or,
come late. t
With Augathella stockmen or with boys from Birds-j
ville way,
And every' eye’s a. friendly eye, and every man’s a
mate:
Amen !
Fill them up again!
We’ll all be back another day, but Lord knows when.
VICTORIA.
RANN DALY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 14, 1917.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
A remarkable story was told in the
Supreme Court this week, when Bertha Fife-
\ illiers Lohde, the English wife of a Ger-
man doctor, who is now interned, applied
for an order calling upon Pastor Treuz to
show cause why a writ of habeas corpus
should not be issued, directing him to pro-
duce her son, Rolf Lohde. The order was
granted, and May 7 was fixed for the
appearance of the boy. It appears that in
September, 1915, Mrs. Lohde went into a
private hospital and left her child with a
Mrs. Bernays, but its father called and took
it away. After that it was alleged to have
been taken to San Francisco by a woman,
but the pair were not allowed to land and
returned to Queensland. The woman then
handed the child to Pastor Treuz, who is
now also interned. The mother says that
the pastor admitted having hidden the boy
because “you are English and he is Ger-
man.” Yes, Thargomindah, thank goodness
there is a difference.
Judge Jamieson's son, barely 21, has been
killed in action.
Died on Monday, Edgar Walker, superin-
tendent of the New Zealand Insurance Co.
for Australia and Tasmania. In 1574 he
arrived from Maoriland to start the busi-
ness. Of his family of five daughters and
two sons, one son and three daughters are
helping to crush the Teuton hordes. The
hoy is a lieut. with the A.1.F., one girl is an
army nurse, and the other two are making
munitions in England.
Another well-known man who crossed
over duriug the week, as the result of being
gored by a cow, was Reginald Carr Boyd,
once manager of Surbiton station and for
many years past an officer of the Stock
Department. 11 is only son is in khaki.
Another victim of the North—Mrs. Kate
Atkinson, aged !);>. She might have lived to
a ripe old age, but she was one of the
pioneers who arrived at Bowen in the early
GO’s, and the climate did the rest. Her
husband and the late Mr. Firth formed Mt.
Surprise station.
Gladys Hicks, daughter of the John
Hickses and one of Brisbane’s most popu-
lar girls, lias been almost bunned to death
during the week. On Wednesday afternoon
Alys Kirkland was the hostess at the Coo-ec
Cafe, and on Thursday Mrs. Chas. Elliott
tilled her pretty home with pink roses and
dahlias and spread the festive sandwich. To-
day, at the Coo-ee Cafe, amid palms and
rose-pink art muslin and a riot of roses.
Gladys’s parents entertained about 200
guests at the formal wedding tea. Each
guest received as a souvenir a spray 'of pink
silk roses with a little gold bell attached.
Contralto Lena Hammond uplifted her
creamy voice, and pianistc Gladys Frost
coaxed melody with both hands from the
piano.
Next Wednesday is to see Miss Hicks’s
wedding, and on the same day handsome
Grace Morgan (niece of the late Arthur
Morgan) is expected to promise that she will
to young Dnlzell, of Dalgi station.
On Tuesday last D. Quillinan, of the
Daily Mail writing staff, was married to
Margaret Fitzsimon, of Sandgate.
Lieut. R. Peel, a Courier youngster, en-
listed at the outbreak of the war, saw
service in Gallipoli, fell ill and was taken
to England to recuperate. As soon as he
could pass the doctors he re-enlisted and
went to Mesopotamia, where a Turkish
bullet lately found him. He was only 22.
Rita McLeod has left Brisbane Mail’s re-
porting staff for the pleasant, precarious busi-
ness of the freelance. Recently she issued a
little book of poems under the pen-name of
“Margaret Fleming,” and it was received so
well that she will shortly send out another
under her own name, title, style or moniker.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The Queensland Government-begins to
feel the teeth of the Police Union, which it
helped to bring into the world. The Union
sec., ignoring the Commissioner, headed a
deputation to the Home Sec. the other day,
and told him that he would have to behave
better in future. Complaints were made that
men were expected to clean up litter at the
Commissioner’s office, and extra pay was
demanded for attending races and sports
gatherings. The pensions scheme came in for
adverse criticism, too, probably because the
Government only subsidises it to the extent
of £30,000 per annum in place of making
the force do what other public servants do
—support their own fund. The time seems to
be coming when the Police Union will be so
annoyed with the Government that it will
arrest Ryan for cruelty to constables and
Fihelly for frequenting prayer-meetings.


xc
cjfa IDEAL CAR.
FOR AUSTRALIA
©
•r fei A *Xh
iu i «rri-^>- / " ,
*=sS^^.i;
<#
«&** if
r^rTs^f
P^T'
Zcl^f
woo-v *'
Clm^
b,
W,
iKA i ~7k
(S)
PpsJ
Aa.c/
Cap
a
Ck
D
dU<
*
3
Ci^ s
o /P°S£
?**4uJr*' c,.
tS
'~ 4
<^<y~
/
—V,
J©
//
<d
bo <~o
*^L
*>>'
;
«-
©
C/^V
Uxt
yj
T
ROYAL HOTEL
BATHURST
O dba* tuyucs*
tylouJ* P*S*A&/ A> rrcs°
lv/lkSk*4£* uXaluciou^r
%M 1
JW~ C+&n^d£f
HV AOO', — '~ . .
a &#8 wt/ cdWT *7
J 7 djt toacU cuu
U lui&o cLd' P Truxvh* /dit/
■JmPuI a at* $ ■fcldAaAet* tyuMy k OSJW Yy ©
- fUsaCU. L'Jj^
~ £Ldt&aJ^ ( <?■s I
COS k U~, UZMc* k
*j£&UJu,, U<M j
OK, cW</. <w=U~r w-f* sr* r’ .
k* £?~~~
m a- *** ,
/v<" v < "
(yhd-<^jtst
P?M
f,
a?
W's
Yl
i
(Hru*-£
%
m
m
*
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
State Importers: VICTORIA—Messrs. TURNER BROS., 398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—THE CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LTD., 95=99 Pulteney Street, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARfISTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIA—W. GAHAGAN, Collins Street, HOBART ; CORRICK’S GARAGE, Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON.
NEW ZEALAND—ADAMS LTD.. CHRISTCHURCH. ' ,


Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver —healthy or clogged, active oi
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pi mply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
vxc
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
V Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or faded
hair, stimulate its growth and make it soft
and glossy with this simple recipe, which
they can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum and 1 small box of
Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be purchased at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair every other day
until the grey hair is darkened sufficiently.
This mixture relieves itching and is excel-
lent for dandruff. It does not stain the
scalp, is not sticky or greasy and does not
rub off. It will make a grey-haired person
look 10 to 20 years younger.” —Advt. [3
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, |ust off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 360 rooms. 260 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A, Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
v
xcv
Series
With
These
Brands
pre HONEST SERGES-Pure
Wool, Fast Dye and Thoroughly
Shrunk. Such Serges, in Blue or
Black, never fail to give satisfactory
wear and to keep their appearance
GENUINE
FOX SERGES
have these brands stamped once in
every yard so that discriminating
buyers may recognise them at once
Made by Fox Bros. &Co Ltd., Somerset, Eng. If
you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally, write to the
agents: Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1602,
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest
storekeeper stocking it.
cx
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
A BIG SCOOP
QUALITY NOT LUCK.
Babnet Glass
Motor-Cycle Tyres
SWEEP THE BOARD AT
Mortlake (Victoria) Motor-
Cycle Carnival.
April 6—Reliability Run, Melbourne to
Mortlake, 150 Miles, of the three
riders to score Full Points,
2 Rode Barnet Glass Tyres
April 7—Side-Car Race, 68 Miles,
Ist, 2nd and 3rd on
BARNET GLASS TYRES
WINNER’S TIME: lhr. 24min. 27 2-ssec.
WORLD’S RECORD.
April 9—200 flile Motor-Cycle Race,
Ist, B. ECKHARDT
(FASTEST
TIME)
on BARNET GLASS TYRES
TIME: 3br«., 49min., 29sec.
South Australian 100-Mile Motor-Cycle
Championship,
C. Lawrence, winner on Barnet Glass Tyres
EVIDENT PROOF OF THEIR
RELIABILITY and SPEED.
Write for Latest Price List of our “ Steel-studded ” and “ Boomerang ”
Pattern Anti-Skid Tyres, the most reliable for Winter use.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co.
LIMITED,
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Launceston, Hobart; Christchurch, Auckland (N.Z.)
“8.J.”: What is the longest trade round
covered daily in Australia? Outside Yea
(Vic.) recently I struck a baker who covered
a 44-mile round six days a week. I now
wait patiently for someone to explain that
this is a mere lunch-hour spin.
“How like the Russians the Australians
are! Everywhere Igo I see the resemblance.
The same openness and candor. With my
eyes closed I can distinguish an Australian.
And Australia! The woods, the hills, and so
on, how they all remind me of Siberia and
Manchuria, which, indeed, are in many ways
more like Australia than any other part of
the world.”— Surgeon-Captain Klatchko, to
an Adelaide interviewer.
‘‘Thomas Francis”: A notice stuck on the
inside of a Melbourne window-pane:—
Signor Tomato has decided to open practice in
Bongotigoiong, and may be consulted in his room
next the English Church. Testimonials from ail
throughout the State will be 'riven on application.
Readers of modern history will find Tomato’s name
associated with General Gordon in Khartoum in the
year 1880 and with the King of Abyssinia, by whom
he. was taken prisoner during an engagement and
retained by him for a period of eight years. The
attention of the public is directed to the case of Mrs.
Z , an Italian lady of the district, who suffered
for 18 years from tapeworm. She was under treat-
ment of the best medical celebrities in Italy, with-
out any result. Mr. Tomato, after accurate investi-
gation, took the ease in hand a week ago, and
fortunately removed the monster in three hours with-
out any inconvenience. The worm is complete, with
head and tail, and is about 20ft. long. All persons
desirous of srri’-n- the animal will be afforded an
opportunity of doing so on calling on Mr. Tomato at
bn residence.
Last week at the dinner-table my landlady,
an insulting person, told me she reckoued I
had swallowed a tiger. Next time she says
so I’ll see the Signor about it. Even if I
have he ought to be able to fix me up. I’d
be prepared to give him the skin by way of
fee.
“Adelaide”: Milch cow, sold at Tbebartop
(suburban Adelaide) in the market, for £34
to-day, 22/3/T7. Australian record?
“Copabella” on some curiosities of trade:
The tobacco-weight problem referred to by
“Quidam” (B. 22/3/’ 17) is more than one of profit-
eering ; it is concerned with the fundamentals of
price- and sales-psychology. Absurd though it may
seem, some prices “go” much better than others.
For instance, Id., Bd., 6d., Is., Is. 3d., Is. 6d. (and
so on in multiples of 3 f d.) are popular with cus-
tomers ; so in a lesser degree are 4id., 71d. and
104 d. ; while lid. added to any amount in shillings
(such as Is. lid., 9s. lid., 17s. lid.) is always a
good draw. On the other hand, lick, 4d., 5d.,
9d., Is. Id., Is. 2d., Is. 7d., and similar odd prices
fail to attract the buyer and are avoided. The
tobacco manufacturers, knowing this custom,
designed their plugs to be sold at 6d., Is. and Is. 3d.
The plugs were in “dark” tobacco (cost price ss.
lb.), 12’s, oi’s and 4ps; In “light” (costing ss. 6d.
lb.), 13’s, 6’s and s’s. Then some idiot, buying in
half-tons at 2d. Ib. rebate, began to cut to 5d., lid.,
Is. 2d.; and thus the demand for mongrel plugs set
in. The manufacturers took a hand. They put a
plug branded “Factory weight, lib.,” and intended
for a Is. 6d. plug, on the market, which was sold
at Is. sd. and Is. 6d. (light or dark), and by the
idiot at Is. 4d. and Is. sd. This was easily the
most popular plug ever sold, but the cutting of it
forced the smaller men to substitute the unbranded
41 to meet the sacrifice of margin. Next came the
duty-increase of sd. lb. at the last tariff revision.
The manufacturers played up to the retailer again by
withdrawing the 41b. plug, which would have to be
sold at the awkward prices of Is. 7d. and Is. Bd., and
tried once more to standardise the Is. 6d. plug by
making a 4J (dark) and a ii (light). This is the
plug “Quidam” got—with the wee,d costing ss. sd.
and 6s. a lb. he was not extortionately charged.
Just now it is, as he surmises, impossible to buy a
pound of either tobacco-—unless the tobacconist is
one of those philanthropists who will cut a lump off
a spare plug as a make-weight. When I was last at
the game the least amount I would sell by weight
was 21b. light or 41b. dark, and “Quidam” can get
the real thing by taking that quantity.
The Scotsman has been having a cen-
tenary. But that isn’t so remarkable as
that in its hundred years of life it has had
only two managers. John Ritchie had the
job until he died, in his ninety-third year,
and it has been held ever since by James
Law. Also it has had but four editors.
Killed in France, Sergeant Claud Clark.
He used to take photographs for the Tas-
manian Mail, and as a sideline was one of
the Speck’s finest amateur long-distance
runners.
“Stargazer”: I have been talking to a
registrar who specialises in births, deaths
and marriages. He is interested, in the
nomenclature of the people, and the Influ-
ence of great events thereon, and talks out
of an experience of 30 years. A big divorce
ea&e always produces its little crop, and even
a murder case -with an interesting heroine
has an effect on the average of Elizabeths,
Kates or Janes, as the case may be. The
sudden arrival of a popular author of fiction
is followed by a run on his name for boys.
A successful general or a V.C. becomes the
unwilling godfather of half the children
born within the little circumference of his
ephemeral influence. The effect of the
theatre is continuous. The opera “Doro-
thy” produced a sudden rush of Dorothies,
which accounts for the present marked pre-
ponderance of darlings of that name, aged
20, close up or just over. Nance O’Neil’s
success accounts for the appreciation of
Nance which afflicted a numerous class
shortly after “Magda” swarmed over the
affections of Melbourne people. Just at pre-
sent, so far as the naming of baby girls is
concerned, picture actresses provide 60
per cent, of the Christian names. “Mary
Pickford Smith” is very frequent; Peggies,
Thedas and Olgas are too numerous to men-
tion. There is no stronger guide to the
depth and profundity of a picture actress’s
plunge into the affections of the million than
the number of baby girls that presently drop
in on the registrars to be dubbed with the
name that she wears on the bills.
Various old legal yarns are recalled by
an Adelaide case just reheard. A young
Frenchwoman who ran a cool-drink shop
was accused by the police of using it for a
quite different purpose, but the S.M. thought
there was no evidence on which to convict.
On appeal a Judge held that there was a
case to answer, so it went back to the police
court, which solemnly fined the lady £l7.
But in the interval she had strolled away,
and the only address she left is the vaaue
“G.P.0., Sydney.” A practical sort of alibi,
this.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums #or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures'* and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are, often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know' when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO..
. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Syd
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Ohl My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns —
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling saives
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
CLI
'£&
* w
v/
l
ft
=1
n
c
>
/
»
C\\
<z
' z '4k
r
(A
&
>r
n,
h
■^r
PI
3
> V
£
/
/
XI
\
£
>v
(P
n
\o
/
r?ss
T\
V 3
V
X
Ui
u
My Best Friend And Your Best Friend
That is the picture of my best friend,
your best friend---in fact, the best friend of
hundreds of mothers and children through-
out the world.
There is many a young man and woman
who would not be alive to-day if it had not
been for the timely aid of Granny Chamber-
lain and Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
The principal ailments with which the
mother of a young family has to contend are
coughs, colds, croup, whooping cough and
bronchitis, and no matter which of these
troubles it was I always found a friend in
Granny Chamberlain and her medicine—
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
When I tell you of the many times
Granny Chamberlain has come to my aid.
you will understand why she is my best
friend and your best friend and why I sing
her praises.
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets are a new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Liver and Bowels ; they liaVe met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigorate t e
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. pei box.
safeguard your Health
qT J.Collis Browne's
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, 5/*.
Made in England.
—1
A
m.
IN SOLTD NICKEL HUNTING CASE. With
Ordinary Dial. Price 10/6.
With Luminous Dial. Price 14/6.
STEWART DAWSON’S
LATEST CATALOGUE
is an excellent Shop-window for Countrv Residents
who desire to avail themselves of our Splendid Values
in Gifts. We send it Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
THE TREASURE HOUSE.
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
High-class
Pocket
Compasses
Of a Scientific Nature at the
Price of Ordinary Productions.
Sterling Silver Line Engraved
Cigarette Case, 35/-
Others at 27/6, 32/6,
40/-
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prise Medals.
•a*
Works: Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for
assorted Sample Box.
GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern you just
press the button to go astern, aheacu or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
vcx
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 6Q Queer. Street, MELBOURNE.


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Business Notices.
vcx
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot' be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
Amusements.
Harry Rickardtc Tivoli Theatres ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
yiVOI, 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY’S SMARTEST SHOW.
TIVOLI POLLIES
and
MISS VARA PEARCE.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
"J“ IV 01,1 TIIICATItE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
COMING —APRIL 21.
MISS ADA REEVE,
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
H~ ~Elt Ma.IES T Y ’ S, SYI)N E Y.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
,T. C. WILLIAMSON LT)D. present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime,
rHE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
PALAC E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
J. and N. TAIT’S
NEW COMEDY COMPANY
in
TURN TO THU RIGHT.
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
\A/ IKT H S ’ NEW HIPPODROME.
ww HAYMARIvET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 o’clock.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and all Holidays.
WIRTHS’ GREAT CIRCUS AND
MENAGERIE OF PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALS.
Book your Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s, '5/-
Other seats 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, plus war tax.
Children Half-price, except Gallery.
’Phone 1234 City.
SLY TWO WORDS—BUT WHAT REAL
JOY.
WHI T P CI T Y
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlinglmrst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE RED DANDIIiS.
Plans at Carnegie’s, 334 George Street, City; and
Sinclair’s, top of William Street.
v
TRIANGLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices : 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Millkr, Managing Director.
%A# ADDINGTON’S GRAND THEATRE,
*®Pltt St., opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
W. J. SHEPHARD’S
GORGEOUS KINEMACOLOR.
COMING NEXT TUESDAY.
THE WONDERLAND OF NEW
ZEALAND.
Shown by arrangement with, and under the auspices
of, the New Zealand Government.
Popular Prices.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you've visited tne
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
ER MAJESTY’S T H EAT RE, MELHOU l!NIS.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Saucy and
Piquant Musical Play,
CANARY COTTAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
II E A T It E It O Y A L, MELHOUItNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
A NOTABLE ENGAGEMENT.
MARIE TEMPEST
THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY
Prices as usual.
Zonophone
Records
—“the double discs with a double life.”
It isn’t only the PRICE that makes Zono.
Records so popular—it’s the QUALITY.
Not only do they reproduce perfectly, but
they last remarkably—the surface being
hardened by a special secret process.
Zonophone artistes are NOTABLE, and
their songs are THE POPULAR FAVOR-
ITES right up to the moment.
10-INCH
2|3
NEW LISTS
REGULARLY
EVERY MONTH.
12-INCH
36
“ ZONOPHONE *•
Registered Trade Marl:,
THE BRITISH ZONOPHONE CO., LTD.
H>3 PITT STREET -——SYDNEY.
Amusements.
PRINCESS'S THEATKE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FULLER RECORD-BREAKING
PANTOMIME,
THE BUN YIP.
Special Prices; 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and I/-
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
J. & N. TAIT’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY,
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
A RIOT OF LAUGHTER.
Produced by BARRY LUPTNO.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C, 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door: 1/-).
Amusements.
Majestic theatre,
Flinders St. (near Station), Melbourne.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
LOUISE GLAUM
In
SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE.
By RICHARD HARDING DAVIS.
WILFRED LUCAS and CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
THE MICROSCOPIC MYSTERY.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s best films, in-
cluding the productions of Fox, Yitagraph, World,
Paths, Selznick and Mutual-Chaplin.
BRITANNTA THEATRE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
71^
cm
<s»
Reliability Supremacy
exclusively Held by tHe Ariel
Unrivalled in excellence of construction and in efficiency of
road service, there is no rival to Ariel Reliability—no
challenger to dispute its reliability supremacy. Read
this:—
The Ariel is the only motor-cycle that has ever secured in one season
the Team Prizes in the English and Scottish Six Days’ Trials, and
the First Prize in the Irish End-to-End Trial.
If you insist that your after-war motor-cycle must be an all-quality machine
—speedy, powerful, economical and consistently reliable —you are going to be
an Ariel owner.
Ariel Pedal Cycles have given equally good service jor over W years.
32-PAGE ART LIST MAILED POST FREE.
ARIEL WORKS LTD,
36 BOURNBROOK,
BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street.
ADELAIDE: 152 Runtlle Street
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street
!
cxv
vxc
vcv
Who Is She ?
If you knew her you would recog-
nize her—even though you cannot
see her eyes. She has used Dr.
Lyon’s for years and owes her
beautiful teeth to its constant use.
To safeguard and beautify your
teeth use either
vw. vm
■< r ecfi 1
if* Poi
iSs 3*4* -si‘*S
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
To secure the best antiseptic and healthy conditions
that will preserve the teeth and keep the mouth clean
and sweet, use both the Dental Cream and Powder.
Dr .Lyon’s tooth powder is a super-cleanser, polisher and
preservative. The users of Dr. Lyon’s Dental Cream
who vary the cleaning of the teeth with the pow-
der will find this suggestion to be both a gratifying
and valuable one.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores.
Send 3d. in stamps today for a dainty sample
package of either Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth
Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St-
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
V PERFECT, A
£2
For C>vtnsins
4 Beautr{ufl£
the teeth
& AW) fWWFYWSjJ
A THE BREATH
25fK\


Why Not Rely
On Cuticura
xcv
Cuficnra Soap
to cleanse and purify,
Cpiicura Ointment
to soothe and heal
dandruff and itching.
Nothing better
at any
price.
Samples
Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin
Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns &
Company, Sydney,
N. S. W. ” Sold
throughout the
world.
ToteMoiir
HairandMp
CHRISTIE^]
SPECIALISE
TWO
LINES
\
1# TS
1C /iONTER ST NEWCASTLE
S'-
m
m g $
«n: : '
-• '.'.V
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
cx
CARTRIDG
1
Always Reliable
■
1
m
s£|
m
■
■
‘ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
1J oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitro*
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L° LONDON
The
TRESS,
reg? mark
guarantees
m
ms
w
Quafity
Finish
&
Character
Hats
ANE
?ApS
Of all Frrst-c/ass h/a tiers throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSsC?L TD LONDON ENGLAND,
%
J
» <?>
-studs that stop in
They have a tree-root grip a base larger than
their visible area —hidden away beneath the solid
rubber tread.
You can get Palmer Studs out by cutting them adrift. Other-
wise they stop in, giving a certain road-grip, avoiding skid-accidents,
eliminating punctures entirely.
The wonderful petrol - saving
Palmer Cord Tyres are made
with steel-studded and the famous
three-ribbed rubber Treads in
all sizes: for light and heavy
Motor Cars, Motor Cycles and
Aeroplanes.
Palmer Fabric forms the re-
inforcement of the lower-priced
Motor Cycle Tyres, of all
Palmer Cycle Tyres, and the Tyres
for Auto- Wheels.
Both Cords and Fabric minimise
internal friction.
Palmer Cycle Tyre Liters are cautioned
in their interests to purchase only
Tyres bearing the T rade CM ark beneath.
LITERATURE FREE
from
MOTOR TYRE AGENCY
The India Rubber, Gutta
Percha and Telegraph
Works Co. Ltd.,
279 Ceorg;e Street, Sydney.
m
Me
»
TRADE
MARK
m
and from Agency for
Motor Cycle & Cycle Tyres.
The India Rubber, Cutta
Percha and Telegraph
Works Co. Ltd.,
279 George Street, Sydney,
The PALMER TYRE LTD., Chief Offices, 119 to 123 Shaftesbury Av., London, W.C.
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
uncemia
'pHE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Ansemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron 'Jelloids' to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general "fitness” and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote :—“lmpoverished blood can be made rich and good
*• by means of Iron 'Jelloids,' the most effective and desirable treatment."
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON ’JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by Thb 'Jelloid' Co.. 205. City Road, London, England.
(Pronounced Jell-Uoyd§)
vc
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Inky Way.
“Harrison O.”: Some day, when I've
grown very rich by writing boshter verse,
and things are looking better (they couldn't
look much worse!), I mean to start a. paper,
less for profit than for fun, and to show a
lot of asses how a paper should be run. I’ll
build a bosker office, with a bar on ev’ry
floor, and crucify a Fatman up above the big
front door. There’ll be no rotten duty-book
the boys will have to sign; they’ll simply
write what stuff they like, at eighteenpenee
a line; and none there’ll be to curse the
man behindhand with his tripe, for formes
will just be sent to press whene’er the time
seems ripe. A wondrous staff of specialists
I’ll quickly gather round; for where they
now a shilling earn I’ll offer each a pound.
Frank Morton will be asked to run a
column, “Belles and Blokes,” and Bedford
(as “Aunt Connie”) will have charge of
“Little Folks.” And there will be a Church
Page such as never was before, for I intend
to make Jack Barr Religious Editor. The
column telling women what to do and what
to wear will probably be handed o’er to
Souter’s tender care. But no stern critic
will be kept tame authors to review, for
wliosover writes a book will write its
notice, too. On top there’ll be a vineyard,
where poets may retire and pour out purple
lyrics on the pangs of hot Desire: and in a
shady arbor, ’neath a placard “Help your-
self,” a bowl of shiny thrippences will rest
upon a shelf. Downstairs the editorial staff
will work a bit ’tween drinks, or when it is
not busily engaged exchanging winks with
saucy printer’s devilettes, of whom there’ll
be a corps, in gowns which, seemingly, were
“cut” by some sub-editor. In summer these
will flit around with iced drinks on a tray—
our motto: “Let the booze be good, but let
the girls be gay !” Oh, it will be a joyous
place, this paper joint of mine, and anyone
who works too hard will have to pay a fine.
And in the Style Book there’ll be but a
single rule, to sav : “Who Furnishes Initials
Will Be Sacked Without Delay!”
“0.K.”: Edward Fricker, editor of the
Australasian, who died the other day,
backed up his claim to long descent by
adopting “Noblesse oblige” as his motto.
With many of the sentiments of an honest
Tory he possessed all the instincts of a
gentleman, which dis-commended him to
those who hate good manners because they
haven’t any. Not that Flicker's own ances-
try was purple. It was merely his aunt who
married a baronet bearing the ancient name
of Hereward Wake. All the same, he was
a natural aristocrat of the same type as, say,
Oliver Wendell Holmes. Fricker once wrote
of my verses that they were, full of wit and
humor, but lamentably void of respectability,
or words to that effect; and I thought it very
nice of him. One never forgets a compliment
like that.
* * * #
“Catchline”: E. T. Fricker, editor of the
Australasian, looked the part. Before all
things dignified, lie was of the solid type
which is assured of promotion in the office
of the Collins-street daily, and in his book-
lined room at the top of the building
he guided the fat weekly on sound,
safe lines for 14 years. Born in London in
1858, he left an architect’s office for Aus-
tralia in the late ’7o’s, becoming a reporter
on the Otago Daily Times in 1881. Seven
years later he was on the Argus gallery
staff, in the days when Parliament used to
be reported by the solid page. Later he was
leader-writer and dramatic critic. In both
capacities he endeared his paper to the
Melbourne Club. He would have been
ill at ease in slicker, brisker journalism.
Fair and above-board in all things, he in-
spired affection anil respect among a class
which does not lightly yield them, and press-
men and clubmen alike will miss his portly
presence. Cancer of the throat was the
cause of death.
* * * *
“Barcoo” : There is one woman in Queens-
land who is usually addressed as “Sir.” She
is the editor of the Atherton Examiner- —
that’s why. Her name is Agnes Gilles, and
a brother of hers is in the Bananaland
Assembly.
#*'**•
R. W. Cruickshank. who is contesting
the Hume seat for Labor against F. B. S.
Falkiner, is an Inky Wayfarer who shook an
able pen a few years ago at the neglected
industries of Australia. For a time he was
in the chair of a country weekly which had
been occupied previously by .T. G. Drake,
ex-Federal Attorney-General. Later, Cruiek-
slianlc was inter-State representative for
Reuters in Sydney, and held the job for
seven years, doing some bright work for
The Bulletin incidentally.
“Nomis”: Jabez Wright, the undertaker
M.L.A. for Broken Hill, came forward in
characteristic fashion at Adelaide the other
day. Crawford Vaughan and some of his
colleagues, now Labor no longer, are guaran-
tors of the Labor Daily Herald. The
Herald, of course, under altered conditions,
is no use to the disqualified section, and it
is more, than hinted that the Vaughan hen is
unwilling to assist in hatching a crocodile
that will turn round and swallow it. Then
Jabez comes along and says: “Anything I
have I made from the workers livin’ and
dead. Tell you what I’ll do. Let the unions
of Adelaide raise £9OO and I will top off
with £100; let them raise eighteen-hundred
and I'll go two hundred.” The Adelaide
unions are thinking about it. Meantime
they have given three cheers for a solid old
Laborite who hasn’t many two hundreds to
spare.
A Sydney pressman at the Easter Show,
spotting a carriage surmounted by stiff-
backed men in livery, hunted up secretary
Somer, who was resting on a seat in the
ring with a couple of other ordinary-looking
individuals. “Good-dav. Monty.” he said.*
“Got any Governor-johnnies or anything in
that class on show to-day?” “Well —er—
bum —this is his Excellency the Governor-
General with me,” replied Somer. Inkstains
smiled and bowed his prettiest, while the
G.-G. jumped in, relieved a rather strained
situation, and finally congratulated the scribe
“on the very excellent show you have this
year.”


A
Special
Appeal
fCi
t\'d from birth on the 'Allenhurys' Foods.
Mother and Child.
Baby 6% months.
on Behalf of Baby
Naturally a Healthy Mother
should feed her own child, and no cause, save inability,
should prevent her doing so. But there are many
mothers who, though willing, cannot wholly or even
partially, nurse their children. Either they have no
milk for them, or it is poor in quality and deficient
in sustenance.
The Question then arises
what food should be given to Baby. Carefully consider
this highly important point. Remember, that the
right food, given at the proper age will lay a sure
foundation for future health and happiness. Ordinary
cow’s milk is totally unsuitable as a food for young
infants; it is acid, contains indigestible curd and is
frequently swarming with dangerous germs, especially
in summer time. FarinaceousFoodsmustnotbegiven,as
a child under seven months of age cannot digest starch.
A Satisfactory Solution
of the difficult problem of feeding children by hand is
provided by using the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. Prepared
as directed, these pure Foods closely resemble healthy
mother’s milk in composition, nutritive value and
digestibility. They are the outcome of prolonged
scientific investigation, carried out with all the resources
of wide manufacturing facilities and experience.
Decide to use
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. By so doing the many serious
ailments which folllow the use of unsuitable food will
be avoided, and Baby will be equipped with sound
health and strength.
The Method of Simplicity and Certainty
s&llenburgs Beads
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From birth to 3 months. From 3 to 7 months, From 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks (Malted),
A useful addition to baby’s dietary when to months old and after,
PT Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management ••
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St., Sydney
How About Your Overhead?
Let us for a moment think of "overhead” as being the roof
above our heads. No building is better than its roof. Your architect
will confirm this statement. He knows that the factor of permanence is de-
cided largely in the roof. A leak in the roof means a leak in maintenance.
Certain-teed Roofing
is weather-proof and water-tight. It is unaffected by changes of temper-
ature or by atmospheric gages. Nor will it buckle, blister, crack nor creep.
Certain-teed has the endorsement of the world’s leading architects.
You should know more about this splendid roofing. Inspect it at our local
distributor’s. Be sure the “General” is on the roll. Ask for free samples and literature.
Mr. C. C. McCann, Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Company
Perpetual Trustee Building, Sydney, N. S. W.
MILLS jN U. S. A.: East St. Louis, Illinois; Marseilles, Illinois; York, Pennsylvania; San
Francises, California. LONDON OFFICE: Imperial -louse, Kings way, London, W. C.
Distributors: John Danks Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne; Jas. Campbell & Sons
Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe & Co., Adelaide.
m
m
S
u
W
m
®Hil
i!—111
or
is
I'inlSl
SB
me
a
at
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.
Did it ever occur to YOU
that we cue SPECIALISTS in
all Kinds o/~
SPORTING
REPAIRS
Whoa your Tennis Racquet Breaks
-send it to MICK SIMMONS.
wa
H
if/
iks
1
\j
m
SN
«.5£ \r<
w rs' *
IK
*0
m®M$M
m*
452
&
&MST
■Ms.
fS
1
Sw
CP -
m-
c
SSgg
Tf
m
SWV
(3L Gorner
o/foitr
Repair
When something
happens to your*
Gun—send it to
•MICK SIMMONS.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
Tennis Racquets, Cricket
Bats, Golf Clubs, Hockey
and Lacrosse Sticks,Skates,
Fishing Rods, Reels, in fact
all Sporting Requisites re=
paired by Expert Workmen
in the finest equipped
Factory in the Southern
— Hemisphere.- =====
SEND US YOUR REPAIRS NOW, and when doing so kindly attach name
and address to each article. First-class Workmanship. Lowest Charges.
Send for copies of our new edition illustrated Sports List ( B 1) and “Sure Catch”
Anglers’ Guide ( B 2). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
vc
msTmuas greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
am TOBACCONISTS
n>ai:
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St also at
fletvcasik l Brisbane


REXONA SOAP—
Best for Baby and Mother too.
m
■
H H
.
Mrs. AN TON I A’E BROWN ( from, a photo, from
Sinemah Studios.)
Mrs. Brown, Expert Photo-
graphic Retoucher, Sinemah
Studios, Parramatta Road,
Petersham, writes to us in
praise of Rexona, and sends
us a Madonna-like picture of
herself which our thousands
of supporters will greatly
appreciate.
Mrs. Brown’s letter runs: —
“How different from all
other Soaps is your Rex-
ona Soap. I always use
it myself, and think the
world of it, and it is the
only soap I believe in for
children. The delicate,
rose-leaf skin can be so
easily injured for ever.
Rexona Soap preserves its
beauty intact, and 1 can-
not help writing to tell
you how much I value
Rexona and Rexona Soap.
In one you have the aris-
tocrat. of salves, and in
the other the queen of
soaps. I know nothing
to compare with either.
Everyone should know of
them, and once known
they will never be without
them.
“I remain,
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.)
“ANTONJNE BROWN.”
ADVICE TO MOTHERS. — Do you want baby to be the envy of your friends?
To be this—king: baby mast be sweet and dainty, and the way to reach this end
Is to bath baby with a good soap. Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is a pure medi-
cated soap, delicately perfumed, and is refreshing and soothing <o the delicate skin
of the child. Give baby a bath with Rexona Soap, and he will show his glee by
being his brightest, merriest little self, always ready for tub time. 1/- per tablet.
0
o
o
3K IK A FACIAL
MEDICATED SOAP
“Aren’t You Feeling Well?”
Said the Sweet Thing: “No, I ate German
Noodle Soup and French Fried Potatoes for
supper, and they won’t arbitrate.”
There is no need to eat food of mixed nationalities. It
is better for your health and pocket to stick to our
Australian products.
“REX”
Lorraine Sausages
and “REX” Pork Sausage
are two nourishing, wholesome foods that put the
“kibosh” on high meat prices and domestic-help worries.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages are the newest addition to
the “Rex” Line. They are filled with finely-minced
meats, seasoned and smoked to perfection, then packed
in a tasty jelly. Heat the tin in boiling water for 20
minutes, and you have a breakfast dish fit for a king.
xv
fosjjitlJone
&Co.U d
DELICACIES
PALM-*’
pork
pjjgIPDRK
SAUSAGE
“Rex” Poi-k Sausage is good for every
meal, more tasty .and far easier to prepare
than fresh “porks.”
Ask your Grocer for a tin of each of these
“Rex” Delicacies.
YOU WILL. LIKE THE PIQUANT FLAVOR OF
“REX”LUNCHEON CHEESE
IT 13 80 DIFFERENT TO ORDINARY CHEESE.
Try all these “ Rex ” Canned Delicacies
UNCHEO
fT,J«»NC3
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues, in jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues, in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues, in jelly, ljlb. and
21b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in soz. deco-
rated tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in soz. enamel
jars.
“Rex” Lard, for cooking: purposes, lib.
prints.
Fogrgitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of et Rex ” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of 11 Rex” Pure Food Products.
Prodigal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, I have followed winds of Chance,
And drunk forbidden wine of Dreams,
And seen the sprites of Maya dance
Upon the border streams,
Sweetheart,
The haunted Border streams.
And weary, weary now I turn
(Forgive me that the hour is late)
Where flame-red poppies used to burn
Beside a cottage gate,
Sweetheart,
A low grey cottage gate.
For I have dreamed of gardens fair
On slopes that leaped to holy flame,
Of beauty that was more than prayer
To one eternal name,
Sweetheart,
One all-sufficing name.
But ah! but ah! the trailing briar
By old Ben Lomond sweeter blew,
And gorse-gold flamed to fleeter fire
On one far hill we knew 7,
Sweetheart,
One fail-, far hill we knew.
And never rose and asphodel
Grew yet on slopes so near to God
As when w 7 e plucked the wild bluebell
And gathered golden-rod,
Sweetheart,
His brave, bright golden-rod.
And heard above the wistful throng
That slow and silent i-estward slips,
Life’s music like a wild lark-song
Well up from Morning’s lips,
Sweetheart,
From Morning’s radiant lips.
Beneath the jasmine’s filigree
The poppy phalanx flaunt no more,
Oli, have they doffed, to mourn for me,
The gay red gowns they wore,
Sweetheart,
The dear red gowns they wrnre?
The night is on Ben Lomond’s brow —
Ah years o’ nights, so soft they lie
Between us, if I called you now 7
You would not. hear me cry,
Sweetheart,
You would not hear me cry.
Betwixt us and the used-to-be
The symbol stauds, the flaming sword.
Till one by one, all silently,
We creep across the ford,
Sweetheart,
The solemn sunset ford.
Victoria.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
Mahutu’s Great Fling.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For years Wharekauri, otherwise
known as the main island of the
Chathams, urns the rendezvous of all
the adventurous craft west of ’Frisco and
east of Sydney. In those days, although the
natives—the old deported Maoriland fighters
and their descendants —were, by enactment,
strictly sober, the lurid stream of old
Jamaica never had to be. sunk for. The
orgy was uninterrupted so far as the Gov-
ernment Resident was concerned. It was
just a case of come and go and bring what
you like. The natives put up their pigs and
kumeras and took it out. in rum and knives
—the good old Jack knives with a hole
through the handle for a loop.
“God Almighty! They put me down here
among the savages to keep them from get-
ting back to Maoriland! I’ve got a whare
on the bluff over there, with a picket fence
all round. They’ve lent me an old mounted
policeman who ought to be in his second
ci-adle—what a pretty lot these natives are !
Let ’em drink, let ’em soak! I'll drink too
—out of a top-boot if there’s nothing else
handy!” And that summed up the Govern-
ment Resident.
So out of the heavy, hoary-headed seas the
beautiful white Yankee schooners shot
through the spume of the heavy rain-wash
and eame-about, thumping and snatching at
the heavy seas, driven landward tw 7 o chains
out from the shelter of the bluff from where
the Major’s stronghold spied dov 7 n upon
them.
One evening, after a particulai-ly lurid
fandango on the beach —it had lasted two
da.ys and the better part of another—a
native with his hair full of seaweed ran
round the yellow beach gesticulating. He
stopped on the edge of the narrow river,
and his hoarse voice came to them dully
through the smash of the waves. “Hi! Rnn-
gitira! Te kaipuko—’e te big puff.”
“Eh?” yelled the Major 7 . “Eh?”
The native repeated the information that
a steamer was coming.
“God Almighty! I thought the Queen was
dead!” said the Major to his friend the
Yankee Captain Silas. He held up a rum
bottle to the native. “Here, you! Jump,
you beggar, jump!”
Young Mahutu took to the surf-run bar
and soon was with them. He picked the
bottle gingerly from the captain’s hand, eyeing
all the while the Major. But that dignitary
had suddenly spotted the steamer nosing
round the point outside the line of breakers.
The sea lay without a ripple. In the wake
of the oncoming vessel a great line of gulls
followed, turning and v 7 hirling in the after-
noon sun.
Out from the shore the sluggish ocean
heaved and sank under the oil-like calm.
“It’s the Government steamer —we’d better
get across,” said the Major, for the chain
had already torn through the hawse hole
while the tub-like vessel moved sluggishly up
to her anchor.
They crossed higher up the river, carried
on the backs of the natives, and met the
steamer’s boat on the beach where she had
run.
As the Resident had stated, it was the
Government vessel, and Captain Ross had
brought down special instructions to the
Resident.
“No more rum, boys,” bawled the new
arrival.
“Why, what d’ye mean, Cap.?” asked the
Major anxiously.
By way of answer Boss wiped his hand
across his mouth and looked about him.
“Say, Major, dry, eh?”
“Mahutu,” commanded the Resident,
“where’s the bottle?”
They retix-ed up under the silent kope
trees and drank, while Ross explained that
the Resident’s new instructions were a
strict adherence to the prohibition policy,
in the interests of the 27 w T hites and the
few hundreds of natives who, according to
the only missionary on the island, were
“being ruined body and soul” by cheap rum.
“So,” concluded Ross, “in the interests of
Humanity you are in for a drought.”
Then followed from Captain Silas some of
the intensest profanity ever known on
Wharekauri. “It’s the slimiest insult that
ever worked its way across the face of the
Stars and Stripes!” he declared. “Stop my
grog! Why, I’ll bring a hogshead ashore
and trade the lot!”
Then the Resident instinctively chose
the right line of argument; for, after all,
it is one thing to damn the Government
oneself and quite another to hear a drunk
Yankee do it.” So he gulped out, “Not with
my sanction, sir,” in such a frosty tone
that the American burst out into glib curses
and laughter.
About sundown the Resident’s one police-
man came down for instructions; in other
words, to get his master home—no easy
task, as the climb up to the stockade would
have tried the energy of a man far more
sober than the Major. Out west the sky
was flaming fire and banked with heavv
swathes of cloud-wrack. Already the sea
was twisting and moaning in doubt.
“Change coming dahn yonder,” advised
Oapt. Silas. “Guess I’ll be going aboard.
Here’s my boat, anyway.” At the edge of
the water he turned. “Say, Major! There’ll
be another consignment for shore if we don’t
get blown out of this little crib before morn-
ing.”
“Can’t do it, Captain. Queen’s regula-
tions, you know.”
“Why, dahm it, mahn, you haven’t got the
lid off ’em yet,” pointing to the big official
envelope. “Of course there’s your usual
little lot to come forward.”
The Resident, weakened by years of island
vice, commenced straight away to compound
with his duty.
“Well, if you could get the stuff on shore
to-night,” he suggested.
* * * *
The first murmur of the storm crept up
out of the sea. A heavy, dull draught of
air circled them, and along the yellow shore
the sea suddenly lifted itself and slammed
heavily on the beach. The Yankee boatswain
called suddenly to his skippei 7 , and as Cap-
tain Silas took his place in the stern sheets
the long-boat lifted and bucked like a tiger.
Along the beach the natives xvere in and
out of the whares. Now and again one of
them ran to the edge of the beach looking
and sniffing at the skyline like a beast track-
ing; then back to the shelter of the tiapu
(fence).
The voice of Mahutu rose, singing tp the
fumes of the rum. The Major and his man-
of-all-sorts disappeared into the stockade.
Then the storm broke with a howl and a
curse, and the night shut down on a whirl
of shrieking elements.
After a tub and a good'meal the Resident
took out the official paper and read to the
effect that from date (ten days previously)
the Government had decided that absolutely
no liquor was to be landed on Whai’ekauri;
also that such private stock as the Resi-
dent might requii’e to use medicinally was
to be duly entered through Customs, peri-
odical returns being made in accordance
with —etc. Then followed list of insti’uc-
tions, procediu-e and fines; for flagrant cases
it was to be confinement in the cell pending
removal to and trial in Maoriland.
The Major sat back and whistled; then
he swore, and followed it up by laughing
satirically. What a task was set him—to
shut off the drink of just about the rottenest
lot of natives in the South Sea, a fighting
crowd deported from the mainland for their
unpleasantly aggressive qualities! Then the
27 whites were just as likely to put the new
regulation “down and out” by force until
such time as the M.L. authorities sent along
a batch of armed constabulary.
The storm shrieked and roared all night,
and by the time the Major drew near the
no man’s land between wakefulness and
sleep he had decided to do his duty. If
Captain Silas had not landed the stuff before
the morning his cake would have to be dough.
At daylight the Major woke in a calm and
beautiful dawn to gaze down upon the
anchorage. The Yankee schooner was gone.
Captain Silas returned a week later, lowei'ed
the jolly boat, loaded her up with rum and
put. out for the shore. He was met by the
Major, fi'igid and backed by the majesty of
the police already referred to, in uniform.
Behind them was a bank of natives, silent
as is the way with them when they are in
earnest. The dissolute white men were
ranged along the water—a bad lot, full of
curses and weak -with the weakness that
comes of doing nothing for years.
“Good morning. Major!”
“Good morning, sir!”
“Wal?” inquii-ingly.
The Yankee turned to the men in the
boat. “Roll them barrels ashore there.”
Then the. Resident gave the Yankee to
understand in best drawfhg-room English—
or as near to it as he could remember to
keep—that not a squirt of the fiery liquid
w r as to set its crimson hoof on the shore •
and when the Yankee tried to bluff it
through, the shady lot of whites, to the sur-
prise even of themselves, ranged up along-
side the Resident, and with dry and dis-
appointed throats offered fight to the Yankee
outfit.
An interesting and edifying flow of lan-
guage followed, bartered quite fi’eely: but
in the end, as the policeman thought it his
duty to arrest the Captain, the whole boat-
load put off again for the schooner to the
accompaniment of choice, and not to be
written, melody.
“I’ll beat yon yet, bully, I guess,” yelled
wxe Yankee over his should er-
(Continued on next page.)


ACCIDENTS
ATHOME.
AT WORK
ON FARM & STATION.
THE DAILY MEED FOR ANTISEPTIC ZAM-BUK —THE
EVER-READY, RELIABLE HEALER.
s
t.
a
Z 9
<4%
M
*ss
'4%#
o
»
<r»>
CUT HIS HAND
WHILE SAWINU.
“While sawing my hus-
band inflicted a nasty
wound in his left hand
with the saw,” says Mrs.
F. Reid, of Fleet Street, Devon -
port, N.Z. “The wound in-
flamed and festered up, and
stubbornly refused to heal,
notwithstanding the various
remedies and treatments we
tried.
INSEPARABLE from the rough, tearing work
of the workshop, railroad, farm or cattle-
station are those every-day cuts and bruises
which may be neglected once too often. Zam-
Buk has brought to the worker new possibilities
in “first aid.” Clean the skin round the wound
or cut, and promptly dress the injury with Zam-
Buk. Zam-Buk does more than allay pain and
inflammation; it prevents festering and blood-
poisoning, and heals up your hurt quickly and
perfectly. Zam-Buk is wholesome, and contains
none of the rancid animal fats that make old-
fashioned ointments so risky and useless. When
you cut or scratch yourself the best thing to do
is to apply Zam-Buk, the powerful antiseptic
and healer.
FLYING CHIP CAUSES PAINFUL WOUND.
AS among the tree-fellers and timber-getters, so
in your backyard, chopping wood is not free
from danger. This is illustrated in the case of
Mr. Daniel Connell, of Hollingshead Street, Botany,
Sydney, who says: “While chopping wood a flying
chip struck me on the leg, causing a nasty wound.
The part became swollen and very inflamed and pain-
ful, and looked so bad that I feared blood-poison
would set in. For seven weeks I was laid up with my
leg, and all the treatments I applied to the wound
were useless. Finally I happened to come across
Zam-Buk, and applied a dressing of this splendid
balm. The first application gave great relief—stopped
the swelling, allayed all the inflammation and eased
the pain. Continuing with the treatment of Zam-Buk,
in a surprisingly short time my leg was completely
healed.”
“At length we happened across Zam-Buk, and were so encouraged with the marvellous benefits
derived from the first applications that we continued to apply this excellent balm. Zam-Buk drew
all the bad matter out of the sore, allayedall inflammation, finally healing up the place with clean,
healthy skin.”
Every Worker Needs Zam-Buk
Zam-Buk heals
skin injuries, and
ends completely
eczema, ulcers, had
legs, ringworm,
sore feet, and other
skin disease. Of
all stores and
chemists, at 1/6
and 3/6 per pot.
ft
RUB IT m t
21
©
@
m
m I
xcv
xcv
xc
Guard Against Substitution
The “VALET” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN.
Half an hour later the pretty little
schooner was on a long leg seaward.
There followed peace for two days, and
the whites settled down to dry-rot on the
beach. Then a strange whispered rumor
reached the Waitangi, and one by one surrep-
titiously the white men and natives drifted
across the island to Kaiangaroa. Soon Wai-
tangi was practically deserted —all had gone
except the old men and women and
taitamariki tamiti too small to travel.
The policeman smelt a rat, and gave the
Resident a whiff. Now, the Major’s own
medicinal supply had just about run out; so
when the rumor grew that his old friend
Captain Silas was landing rum at Whare-
kauri, the ponies were ordered out and the
Resident and his man rode through bogs
and lakes and the eternal green kope trees
to the old cannibal camp on the end of
W ha rekauri.
What a sight! They made their way down
to a clearing in the kopes, and there the
whole of Waitangi, whites and natives,
were mixed in one happy, glorious drunk.
The native ovens were out; kumeras and
pigs and mats and dogs lay in a picturesque
heap attendant on the Great Drunk. The
scent of rum filled the nostrils of the Major;
but the duty before him was so clear that he
had to face it.
“Mahutu, you drunken pig! Where te
waipiro?”
“Do’ know, shir! ’E fly in te air, I tink.
Oh, ’e te great time!”
In his excitement of joy he half-whirled
a small sauce-bottle from his mat. The
Major immediately commandeered it and re-
tired behind the firing-line. When he
returned his face shone with a new light;
but his jaw was set and stern.
“Get out the whaleboat!”
Maliutu sprang into the line of eager, wait-
ing faces and called six men. They sprang
for the boat, and in ton seconds she lay
nosing at the incoming swell, held by her
crew. The Major and the policeman got in
and were soon alongside the schooner.
Captain Silas met him. smiling cheerily.
“Wal! lime good of you!"-
“Captain,” said the Resident severely,
“my natives are all drunk. I demand an
explanation.”
* imt’s wet it first. I give you my affidavit
there’s not a bottle or a barrel aboard the
craft. You can put her through a sieve.”
They made their way through piles of
native produce to the little saloon, and there
being business to he done they “wetted it”
pretty considerably.
They could hear the patter of bare feet
along the deck above them. Then through
the open skylight appeared the shining face
of Maliutu in ineffaceable bliss.
“Captain." said the major, resolutely,
“I’m going to search your schooner.
•Mahutu’s drunk! Rolling drunk!”
“Sure!” acquiesced the Yankee.
So they went to the cabin again and
led by the policeman, who had been a
Customs officer, they just raked that
schooner fore and aft till there wasn’t a
cockroach left unhidden.
“It beats me! There’s not a spoonful
aboard. But I can smell it! And look at
Maliutu !”
So thev went to the cabin again and
“wetted it” some more.
But all the questioning of the mellowing
Resident could not draw the secret from the
captain.
Suddenly the voice of Mahutu was heard
again ; he was singing :
Kani kani waipu,
Kani kani popo,
Plow ye wind Hi-o ;
Tene te korero,
'fangata pai,
Of’ Maori Joe!
The Major sprang up the companion-way,
followed by the others; and a great howl of
joy came to them from the bowels of the
schooner, Tene te korero.... Tene.... Py
korry ! Dis te big plow-out!”
The three men stopped at the waist,
gazing down the shallow hold; but the
shadow held secret the body of the singing
native, so the policeman clambered down
below. There was a moment’s silence, then:
“Pss ! Pss ! Etomai! Te big plow! He!”
and a long-drawn sigh of content.
“You’ve wore me down, Major,” said the
Yankee resignedly. “But make it light.”
When they reached Mahutu he was seated
on the “floor” of the schooner, over some
inches of bilge space, evidently. In his hand
he held a thin india-rubber tube.
“Tss ! tss ! tss !” he said softly. “Tss!
Tss! By korry ! Te belly full up! Tene te
korero ! Tene. ... te k0r....”
A holy silence. Then he smiled on them
and rolled over asleep.
It was all explained by Captain Silas. He
had shallow flat tanks fitted in the bilge, and
when asked how he got the liquor there past
the Customs officers he just winked cheer-
fully.
Luckily the Government steamer arrived
the next day and brought the Major instruc-
tions to return at once and take up an
appointment at Auckland; so all parties
cried quits and let it go at that.
R. S. ALLAN.
Love’s Dream (Abridged).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE was amiably fair, spick and span,
and—nice.
She dressed neatly and with
taste, had her hair under control, and made
delicious hot scones.
They met on the ferry steamer unconven-
tionally. He arrested her intention to sit.
There were banana remains on the seat.
She exposed a gold tooth in thanks. His
hair under his hat was brushed back in the
newest mode.
Later they were properly introduced, but
they had been soul-mates for a month.
His suit cost quite £5 ss. He was very
fond of hot scones.
Her father had a water-frontage cottage.
They were very nice people. He liked the
view from her verandah. She thought his
clothes fitted him perfectly. He thought
she made beautiful scones.
Her mother thought he got at least £4 per
week.
She bought face cream and became fond
of her brothers, practised cooking and
hummed love songs.
His sisters liked the family. They were
quite all right. Water frontages were over
£.lO per foot. They must be worth quite a
lot
lie took her down to the band (chairs
(id,), ice creams (large). She became
sentimental. It was the moon and the
music, the sea and the ice cream. She said:
“What are the wild waves saying?” and
he said he felt that way too.
He had his new drill suit on. Her scarf
was quite expensive looking.
He took her arm home and called her
May. She hated the name. He loved it
for her sake. She was afraid he was a flirt.
Next week she cost him ss. Her mother
kissed her feelingly. Ilis mother hoped he
was not making a fool of himself.
He caught a cold on the expensive water-
frontage. Ilis visits ceased, and she thought
he had forgotten her. Her mother said he
had an impudence.
lie “oadly had a code id the head.”
Her first love-letter smelled strongly of
eucalypt. She bravely went over and caught
his cold. His mother thought her a silly
little thing. She thought “his buther an ode
cat.”
Soon after she bought a new evening-
dress. He had fourpence change from his
sovereign on the morning after the theatre.
He started to take his lunch from home in
brown paper. She said he was a fine chap
the way he threw his money about.
She thought he had a good voice. Her
father didn’t. It didn’t matter; her mother
did.
He was saving up.
They went down Lovers’ Walk. His
heart was as full as the moon, but he hadn’t
enough for the ring yet.
She bought a glory-box.
She was passionately fond of the theatre,
(lie liked the gallery himself.) His mother
said he needed new shirts and everything,
and it was a shame to squander money.
lie could not save up for the ring.
Her mother said they were practically
engaged.
His mother said there was absolutely no
truth in the rumor.
He won £5 in a Tattersall’s sweep. She
wanted a three-stone diamond ring. They
cost more than £5.
lie took her to the pictures three times.
She did not like pictures. She thought his
love was growing less.
He was saving up.
Next week they went to Lovers’ Walk.
Ilis heart and the moon were full again, and
he had the ring.
They were engaged.
Her mother said it would break her heart
to lose her daughter.
His mother said she was more than
pleased.
She couldn’t think of being married for
years and y-e-a-r-s. (Half the trousseau
was already finished.)
He said he got £5 a week. (He didn’t.)
His clothes were really a beautiful fit.
She made beautiful scones.
They were very happy.
FREDA OLDMAN.
Reverie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The greying mist steals on above the trees
And dies away
Under caresses of the creeping breeze
At close of day.
Somewhere among the treetops is a bird.
I never heard
Another bird with song so bitter-sweet,
So faint and fleet.
Long, plaintive notes that cry a warning
clear
Of silence drawing near,
Long silvery plaints that peal to death too
soon
Beneath the moon.
“Love goes!” they sing. “Love goes, and
will not stay,
Love flies away !
Love’s whole sweet life is one long-drawn
regret:
The sun has set!
“The sun has set. The moon brings faint
surcease.
There is no peace
For you and me and all Love’s saints and
swains.
Nothing remains!”
Ah ! bird among the treetops crooning low,
All truth you know !
(I worship one, within a shrine apart,
Who has no heart!)
Far o’er that dimness where the mist is
creeping
The stars come peeping.
And every star sobs softly. “Hapless lover,
Your day is over !”
What matters anything to me and you
That man can do?
Is there a hope amid this vast distress
That mind can guess?
My lady’s eyes are very cool and sweet.
And at her feet
My heart sore-trampled still soft-moans its
prayer.
(She does not care.)
Yet as the mist creeps low along the river
I must forgive her,
Remembering, howsoever she resist me,
That once she kissed me.
Sleep well, dear bird, and nestle to your
mate !
The hour is late.
Sleep on, great God ! Why should You beat-
in mind
Poor humankind?
The greying mist steals on above the trees,
And dies away
Under caresses of the creeping breeze
At close of day/'
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


W estmghouse (cross) Oil Engines
tr
CD
\'/j»>s7?;r7>mrrw7ssT;y7rr/7?V7/'r,>/77TT7-T77T77r^
lfl-h.p. Oil Engine driving Air Compressor at 650 r.p.m.
• ——
Queensland Agrents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate.
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARRURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
The Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W.
[2
eUA i
r
FIRE
Saves sper cent, on
Automobile
Fire insurance.
Price 55/ ■ each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
v
WORMALD BROS. LTD,
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
xcv
A
When you
remember that
35 years’ thought
and skill have been
applied .to perfecting
BROOKS
Saddles, their pre-eminence is no
longer a matter for doubt or wonder.
OF ALL DEALERS.
&
wswssw
See how easy it is!
You merely rub a wet cloth
on a cake of Bon Ami,
getting a white lather,
which you daub all over
the glass. In about a min-
ute it is as dry as a bone.
You wipe it off with a soft,
dry cloth, and all the dirt
and grime comes off at the
same time.
lii America, which has been
the home of Bon Ami for
twenty-five years, practi-
cally everybody cleans win-
dows and mirrors this way.
Bon Ami is used in more home?
there than any other cleaner. It is
quite different from scouring soap
—it will not scratch. It is for all
the finer kinds of polishing and
cleaning. It has a special field of
usefulness all by itself.
. For all Hie
Purer Kinds of
Polishing& Cleaning
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.”
#
#
,
:■ 1
mmtS-
- ■
'
m
kf/C'
i
m
*<-• K.
*
M'l
i®
>v«
dmd Ueait-h |; ■
'X:
A 5
. - ; - >
»
z.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
5
LOCAL
DUSTRX
is s--'
.Your
km r
Then have a«#HOT
at smoking
..£FEIU
The Australian Tobacco.
vs
K\
/ a ;
n
i
X
ODG
We Specialise in Sundries
for the Expiosiwe Engine.
If you possess a Motor-car, Motor-boat, Motor-
cycle, Portable or Stationary Engine, or Aeroplane,
whether propelled by Petrol, Oil or Gas,
we can supply you with all the necessary fitments to
make it go better for less expense.
Sparking Plugs! Sparking Plugs!!
cx
LODGE SPARKING PLUGS, in Metric, % in. taper, Jin. x 18in. 5/. each.
Weatherproof, hi Metric only, 6/- each. Special Racing, 7/6 each.
vxc
CHAMPION SPARKING PLUGS, the equipment of
80 per cent, of the cars made in America. A plug for
every make of car. In Metric, in., Jin. x 18in.
Ford “X” 2/9, Regular 3/-, Overland 3/3, Hy.
Duty 5/-, Reliance (Sparks in water) 5/6 each.
REFLUX SPARKING PLUGS. A splendidly made
plug. Will not foul with oil, soot or carbon. Once tried
always used. Ford Special 2/9, Torpedo 3/-. Giant
Reflex, 4/- each.
Illustrated List describing all these plugs in detail free.
Send for other Lists.
Country Garages write to us. We will put you on the
right track.
Robert C Swan & Co. Ltd
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. t i
o


vc
IiMANGROYIT^i
v
xcv
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by •
Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice anti Price List on application.
mm
a buffalo
FOR EVERY SERVICE.
VOLUME BLOWERS and EXHAUST FANS
... for ...
VENTILATING & COOLING
Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, etc.
BLOWING ~ _
Supplying blast to Cupolas, Forges, Fur-
' naces, etc.
EXHAUSTING ~
Steam, Smoke. Gas, Fumes, etc., and
Refuse from Woodworking Plants.
Write for full, descriptive Buffalo Catalogue
it fully describes the Fan best suited for
your requirements.
agents—
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 (Karenco Siraet, SYDNEY.
MAKES ANY BUILDING
FIREPROOF
and reduces insurance cost to the lowest
basis. For interior and exterior walls,
ceilings, partitions, etc.
Hardie’S (British-made)
Fibro-Cement
is being largely used all over the country.
Actually improves with age, does not crack or
chip, costs less to keep in repair.
WRITE FOR CATALOG “D”
Also enquire about “Fibro-C” Cold-water
Paint and Hardie’s Oak Cover Battens for use
with the above.
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
99
5
~~ 7-' V
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
V3l
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE,"
“ALWAYS TIGHT.”
c
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
vc
HIGH
GRADE
Dry Colors
I Oxides
|Ochres
l Whiting.
VARLINE
v
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD ,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. [2
Q
&
o
o
y
'v
STtOtQ
<?on
Broken Castings
any size* can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
©f
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib.. SO/-: Pb., 25/-: 20*., 7/6.
Send lor illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
Cait-Iron Brazing Go. (Beg.)
45 <ioenser Street, st* Hilda, Vidiria.
HARD SERVICE
ELECTRIC DRILLS.
Stocked in
AC and DC.
Rugg’d in
Construction.
:
. ;
Highest Grade
Bali Bearings.
Gearing: of
Special Alloy
These Drills are Practical,
and Powerful, and Develop more
for Size and Weight than any other.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK.
REASONABLE PRICES.
Illustrated Pamphlet on Application.
The
Austral Engineering Supply Co.
IS9 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Ltd.
cxvvcb
Delco-Light
Safe, Reliable, Convenient,
Electric Light Plant for Country
Homes, Stations, etc. So simple,
a child can operate it. Cheap to
install, and most perfect and
economical to use. Send for
full particulars and prices to
Sole Agents:—
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
Sydney: 309 Kent St. Melbourne: 380 Bourke St,
r
BRITISH SUPREMACY
in Workmanship is expressed in
The
isfer.
2-Stand
earing
Crutchmg
Set
20 Years of AUSTRALIAN Sheep-Shearing Experience is Sponsor for this Outfit.
Engine, Shears, Ring-oiled Brackets, Angie Steel Frame S Grinder are all Listers.
MNGAR, GEDYE 8 CO. L TD -
9-13 Young St., Sydney
The Pioneers of
Sheen-Shearing: Machines
IA
«i
PORTABLE OUTFIT.
STATION ABY OUTFIT.
BUSINE
•n
IS
a
vb
as well as a highly~trained Scientist. His work calls for the best; his Motto is
EFFICIENCY, DURABILITY and RELIABILITY. He finds these qualities in
THE EVERLASTiNC VALVE.
Section of Valve.
Adopted by 175 Railway Companies in America, by Chemical Works, Powder
Mills, Hydraulic Companies, Mining Companies, Paper Mills, etc. The Case Threshing Co. ordered 10,000 in
one year. If your trouble is a leaky Blow-off Valve,
or difficulty with Acid or Oil, communicate with—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
