

DEWAR’S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. Car. WATKINS SZ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining* Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WnoffMW
K
• 3Nrw
-b —if
og
On all Classes of Security
DISCOUNTED
Easylerms Interest
NSVMQNTDE PIETE\D&IC?I?'P
CASTLEREAGHS? SYDNEY 74.
Next to "Daily Telegraph" New Building*
And at
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street* Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
2.15-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
■P& mm
EUSTACE BENNETT; General Manager.
40 Adelaides
sdf
11 Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty”
VALUABLE FOP TAN
AND SUNBURN
ŕt
I
UTTUI
CO
*
op*.
UJ
Q-
LU
flat
2
V
n
JUNIvET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
ive organs.
HANSEN’S
(Junket
TABLETS
F *r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
- Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Associatioa
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
beafuwe It Is water-
vreatbe r-ptoef,
and fume-
“Not the same as others.*’
O ID
MAL
Right in price, because of
the enormous quantities
sold and the fact that
freight on it is light.
Book/eta and Sample 9 from—
The Paraffine Paint Company, Challls House, Sydney ( D. & Evans, Aust. Rep.).
Agents In all Statue,
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L°
ERAL 3: AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER DISCS
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, IVB ARTIIM PLACE, SYDNEY. [2
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
<sives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 38.—N0. 1926.]
[Thursday, January 11, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


COLE’S BOOR ARCADE.
OUST PUBLISHED .
Printed on Best Art Paper. Gold Lettered.
Cloth. Crown Bvo, 290 Pages.
Australian Banking Problems Answered
By F. W. STRACK, of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
CONTENTS:
Cheques
Bills of Exchange
Promissory Notes
Not Negotiable
En
Se
We
dorsementi
ecurlties
ar Loans
Price 7/6
Net
Post Free.
Indispensable to Every Banking or Business House.
E. W. BOLE, 346 George Street, Sydney; and at Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NOT A GERMAN
mustdie:
POWDER.
THE CRCU INSECT DESTROYER’
sd
Plica.
fleas.
Bugs.
Mosquitoes
m, 9?
Vs
" MUSTDIE. ”
Certain Death to All Insects.
Full directions with each Tin.
Burn it—that’s one way.
Sprinkle with the “MUSTDIE” Blower
—that’s the other way.
But even a small quantity dusted
on the pillow at bedtime will effect-
ually keep away Mosquitoes.
The “MUSTDIE” Blower is recommended to
be used, for it is not only economical, but the
powder is distributed more effectively, and we
want yon to get the best results out of every
ounce of the powder.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, 9d. per Tin.
FBEE TRlAL.—Write to “Mustdie," Pept, H,
Box 1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and sample tin will
be sent post free; or forward 9d. in stamps for
a full-size tin.
The Red page
George Moore
It is time for George Moore to take his
own medicine; and Susan L. Mitchell neatly
administers it in George Moore in Maun-
sel’s “Irishmen of To-day” series (per Syd-
ney Book Club). Susan writes with a
pretty Irish wit; and George Moore now
has the privilege of feeling how his victims
in his great trilogy, Are, IS alee, atque Vale,
must have felt as he maliciously vivisected
them. She mentions that of the innumer-
able George Moores depicted in that author’s
literary confessions, there is only one George
Moore that he denies, “the little Catholic
boy of that name who went to confession.”
He whose whole literary life has been a
series of confessions, objects to the confes-
sional. Susan suggests that perhaps it was
the privacy of the confessional that
affronted him, “that so much good copy
should be wasted.” When his biographer
met George (in London) “he had' the rosy
face and innocent yellow hair of young
virtue, kindness was on his lips,.though his
eyes were not quite so kind, a little slow in
following his lips... .A man of middle
height with an egg-shaped face and head
a stout nose with thick nostrils, grey-green
eyes, remarkable eyes, a mouth inclined to
pettishness, lips thick in the middle as if a
bee had stung them. He had champagne
shoulders and a somewhat thick, ungainly
figure But he was the only man in Dub-
lin who walked fashionably.” Other people
call him “an over-ripe gooseberry,” “a great
big intoxicated baby,” ‘a satyr,” “a boiled
ghost.”
Susan devotes a whole chapter to George
Moore’s paintings. Here it is: “Nobody in
Ireland has ever seen any of Mr. Moore’s
paintings, except LE,’ to whom he one
shyly showed a head, remarking that it hac
some ‘quality.’ ‘ M’ remained silent.”
But it was his pathetic inability to pain;;
that made him write so gloriously about art
“No lover ever poured his unrequited lov
in sonnet with more passion than Mr. Moor
in his essays has sung his unrequited love o:
oil paint.” And it has been said of him tha
he had enough credulity to make him
bishop, but that he met Manet before h
met Christ, and that to Manet he has given
all he knows of worship. Being a woman
Susan does not believe in Moore’s confes
sions about females; she quotes with appro
val the remark of “the wittiest woman
Dublin”: “Some men kiss and tell, Mr
Moore tells but doesn’t kiss.”
Jt
Susan charmingly confesses: “Women are
only intermittently self-conscious, because
they live only occasionally in their minds a
all. Therefore no woman has risen up to
write a book containing the whole wisdom o ’
woman, and I for one pray that such a one
may never arise to profane our mysteries
For the most part, we look to men to revea
us to ourselves. Man is our logos, articu
late on our behalf. Women are curious, pry-
ing creatures, seeking mind. I can easily
explain to myself Mr. Moore’s ideas about
women and why they are not so offensive to
women as to men. There is often a wreck-
age of women about the lives of prominent
writers or thinkers or any men who stand
above their fellows. They attract women as
the lighthouse attracts the birds, and the
Wheeling creatures die of exhaustion, upable
to reach the light and unable to leave it.
Mr. Moore, perhaps, makes the common error
that it was his person and not the light they
fancied on his brow that lured them." There-
fore perhaps he and they are quits. The
sexes perhaps are always quits, and when
Mr. Moore says such and such a one was or
was not his lover, we women are unmoved.
We think him rather an idiot to talk so much
about it....We make him a present most
cheerfully of any little pleasure he gets out
of fancying we are in love with him while
we crane eagerly over his shoulder to read
what he writes about us. His main theme in
his novels is 10ve.... Funny person. Women
know instinctively all he knows about love
and more also. It is intellect we are after.
The intellect he brings to bear upon love we
wash out of his novels as carefully as the
miner washes the gold from the clay. In Mr.
Moore’s continual occupation with love' and
Jovers I find him less unpleasant than many
of the English novelists. There is a less
adhesive quality in his coarseness, and I
think it is because he has never been able
even to simulate passion Passion would,
perhaps, have spared us his tiresome pre-
occupation with what one might call milli-
nery and confectionery in the love adventures
in his novels. But ho-w absurd I am! Given
passion, the novels would never have been
written.”
Moore’s younger brother. Col. Maurice
Moore, is pilloried mercilessly in the trilogy,
but Susan shows that in this case and that
of other characters in the great book, George
built up their characters to suit his dramatic
purposes. When, after the publication of
the trilogy, Moore met Sir Horace Plunkett,
he was surprised to find that he had pictured
him falsely t ; then with a smile he said, “How
fortunate it was I jyrote my book before I
knew him!” An artist, you see, must not
g et too close to his subject. And of Moore’s
yoilSger brother, Susan neatly says: “George
Henry iVloore [their father] possessed a fine
honesty and frankness whir’ ’ ' >queathed
to his sons —tks hoffSety to Maurice, the
frankness to George.**
This biographer retails many delightful
anecdotes of George. Moore's conversion to
religion, she says, was conceived in the mood
of light comedy. “His conversion was as in-
stantaneous as St. Paul’s, and no doubt his
experiences enabled him later on to under-
stand the Apostle who is the hero of The
Brook Kerith. It is-possible that the light
which fell from Heaven on Moore was in the
nature of a literary inspiration, and he saw
as in a vision the book which he, a Messiah,
should write about an Apostle. Ave, Salve
and Vale occupied him at the moment, and it
was needful that The Brook Kerith should
be postponed for a few weeks. But the wise
litterateur, while working at one book, will
prepare his life for the next, and will be
collecting experiences.”
George Moore’s visit to the Holy Land, to
cull local color for The Brook Kerith, affords
Susan the chance for a series of delightful
comments. When Moore was searching for
a monastery sufficiently romantically situated
for his great story, his gaunt dragoman pro-
vided him with a small pony, the Arab him-
self being mounted on a lean roan. Plump
George saw himself cast for the part of
Sancho Panza. He would not depart on the
great errand of his life in such a role. lie
insisted on returning to the stables and get-
ting a gaunt Arab draught horse. When at
last, after, for him, awful adventures, he
found the sort of monastery he was looking
for, he subsided with the cry, “My God, my
bones, my bones!” “So tired was he that
when he saw a woman there among the
monks he did not even inquire what she was
doing there! As for the rest of the acts
and adventures of this apostle, are they not
written in The Brook Kerith?” But Susan,
mercifully, does not mention the story of
George Moore when gazing at the place
where the woman was taken in adultery.
Probably because George has told that anec-
dote so often himself.
War
Charles de Souza's “Third Phase” of
Germany in Defeat (Paul, per Dymock’s
Library, 65.) covers the period from the
first battle of Ypres to the German failure
at Verdun, taking in, of course, the chief
battles and movements upon the other
fronts. The author, with a lucid method
and a clear grasp of military strategy,
deploys his arguments with logical precision
Germany was defeated when, after the
Marne, she found herself in a state of siege
with all her machine-made military schemes
awry. According to de Souza, ever since
that defeat Germany has been engaged ii
keeping up a big political bluff, in the hope
that the deceived Allies would weary of the
war and propose peace. Germany’s aim has
been to impress the world with a sense oi
German invincibility. The operations since
ipres have therefore to be considered from
the political standpoint, and the various
offensives and attacks made by the Germans
on all fronts must be viewed in the light of
purely defensive action.
De Souza refuses to accept the much-
advertised view that the Russian retreat was
due to the shortage of munitions. That dis-
aster he considers due to the faulty strategy
of the Grand Duke. Having smashed Aus-
tria he determined to finish Austria, leaving
Germany to be dealt with later. The cap-
ture of the Carpathians seemed to the Rus-
sian commander more important than an
offensive in the north. “With such a pivot
:in_ their possession, the Russians, it was
said, could take Germany in flank from the
south; Hungary would be at their mercy;
the Serbs would be definitely relieved; and,
finally, Austria would be compelled to sue
for a separate peace.” So the Grand Duke,
thinking he held Poland securely, plunged
into his bold and daring mflffement, and
thereby lost the campaign. Russia cap-
tured the Carpathians—a brilliant feat of
arms, but had perforce to leave the rest of
her front weakly held, mostly by reserve
troops,. and so. allowed Germany to retain
her initiative in the north. For Germany
cleverly led the Grand Duke to believe that
she was in strength in the Carpathians,
Wh -A e s ® cretl y concentrating at another point
De Souza is clear on the point that it
was not the alleged shortage of munitions
that caused that calamitous Russian retire-
ment. For by the capture of Przemysl
Russia had acquired over a thousand guns,
small arms enough to equip two army Corps,
and enough munitions to carry on the whole
war for two nfonths. Russia’s retirement
was due to the enemy’s counterblow at a
spot where the Russians were the least pre-
pared to meet it, and de Souza assures us
that, even on this section no shortage of
munitions has been mentioned. It is. true
that eventually Russia ran short of material,
but. this was not felt until after the strategic
crisis was passed. There Is this to be said
for de Souza-s contention: such a blow de-
livered at the vital spot in the Russian line
is sufficient in itself to account for the Rus-
sian retreat. And if there is such an obvious
strategic reason for the retirement of the
whole Russian line, why should there be
any necessity for the wail about lack of
material . . For that outcry we must look
or a political reason. May it not have been
considered better for Russia to proclaim her
insufficiency of munitions than the tragic
mistake of the Grand Duke’s grandiose
strategy? A strategy, by the way, that it
is quite conceivable Russia will carry to a
triumphant conclusion next Spring.
De Souza describes Gallipoli as a venture
entered into on somewhat unsteady grounds,
and devised by experts who were prone to
subordinate strategy to politics. “Gallipoli
proved the barren grave of an army of
heroes, of brave men who had rushed in
thousands from the very Antipodes to fight
the Germans, but who ended miserably, if
gloriously, on the soil of Turkey It can-
not be said that the Dardanelles movement
exerted much, if any, influence on the centre
of affairs, except, perhaps, in a detrimental
manner to the Allies; for Britain, whose
means for land warfare were at the time
much limited, squandered a good deal of her
strength on the remote peninsula, and the
glory she acquired scarcely compensated for
the number of useful lives she lost.”
After pointing out the British failing of
making the least noise about their victories,
and the Hun’s cleverness in advertising even
his defeats as successes, de Souza comes to
the last card that the Huns had to play,
Verdun. “They had to choose between this
and ignominious collapse; or what would
still be worse from their own point of view:
unconditional surrender on the soil of the
enemy.” For to the West Front the Allies
by their various offensives had drawn rein-
forcements and reserves which Germany had
meant to use against Russia; these could not
be transferred to the east without leaving
the line in France dangerously weak.
Joffre’s nibbling tactics had scared the Hun ;
he never knew when a nibble might be the
beginning of a big bite. Germany deter-
mined to use these otherwise useless reserves
on a last desperate gamble. “These on-
slaughts which the enemy prolonged and re-
newed till the end, may be fittingly described
as the agony of the German Empire. To
make them, the Kaiser’s generals.... threw
into the roaring and blazing furnace the
major portion of the manhood of their
nation; they sacrificed wholesale, in dailv
holocausts, what remained of the flower of
the German race.” But de Souza affirms
that the Hun knew he couldn’t get through
at Verdun; his plan had a political, and not
a military, end in view: he wished to im-
press and discourage France and force peace
upon the Allies through her. The job had to
be done in a hurry: Britain was getting
ready. So the. last act of the drama, was
opened. “Joffre held them now in his mas-
terly and deadly grasp; he had been egging
them on all along He had forced the Ger-
mans to undertake a new offensive with no
military prospects for them whatever; and
they were now condemned by their own
action, and Joffre’s persistent refusal to
attack them, to squander the rest of their
forces in a mad and hopeless endeavor.” In
support of his view the author calls atten-
tion to the purposeful inactivity of the
strong British forces during the Verdun
battle. “Joffre knew his own game. Untimely
action on the part of Haig would have
forced the Germans to adopt the defensive
everywhere, and thus would have prevented
them from wasting their strength as they
were doing at Verdun.” But, against this
fact, it is stated now—too late for inclusion
in de Souza’s book—that the Somme Push
was prematurely begun in order, for one
thing, to relieve the strain on Verdun,
Germany in Defeat is a useful antidote to
the pessimism that pervades the Allies: our
pessimism must be nothing to that of the
Central Powers. And the recent hectic and
hurried efforts made by the enemy for an
immediate peace strikingly confirms de
Souza’s arguments.
Neil Lyons is welcome with A Kiss from
France (Hodder and Stoughton, per Sydney
Book Club; Is. 6d. here). His soldiers are
real Tommies —so real that nobody would
mistake them. for Billjims. This collection
of sketches is slight, but written by an
artist. Listen to little Wauehope, the man-
killer: “Yon was such a great, stout, beery
chap wi’ a beard; an’ me such a little chap,
and me to kill yon!” he thought as he found
his German. “Och, aye! But I killed him
sure eneuch. He made no proper stond at
all. He held his weapon that onhandy I had
no even tae counter his point. It were no
braver than fechtin’ a sandbag to fecht
yon. He licked hia fat lips, an’ looked at
me wi’ his eyes, like a frechted sheep. Ah
pit my weight behind the lunge, and said ma
wee bit prayer, for Ah’ll no do wilful
murder, ond Ah twisted it into him, the way
the drill-book tells ye. And he saidna’ any-
thing but jest ‘Oh!’ And he fell at ma fit;
him and his big boots and his beard and cross
and a’. He saidna' anything at a’, jest‘Oh!’
.... Ah seen then as he was no a young
man. He micht ha’ been ma faether. Ond—
Ond—-Ah, well! Wha wad fecht his
faether or wha wad fecht a sheep?”
Then there is Pte. Smiff, whom, with his
mates, Lady Stumper entertains at her coun-
try residence. To that good lady’s astonish-
ment Smiff objects to Aunt Sally—everywhere
they are invited they are expected to play
that game. Smiff tells his hostess he doesn’t
mind being invited out. “We likes to keep
the people cheered and happy If I can do
anythink to keep a civilian in good ’eart, to
keep a civvy’s spirit up, to keep their minds
away flttsm thinkin’ childish about this war
—why, Ladyship, I’m glad to do my bit.”
And Mr. Smiff expounds the old soldier’s
theory of foreigtf'Amaking, in the delight-
ful story of “The Belgese Girl.” “I’ve found
’em all alike. All friendly, all agreeable, all
female. .. .And I say distinct as no little
difficulty about languidge ever stood in my
way—or theira. Chinese, Burmese, Maltese
or Belgese, it has always been the same to
me. I grant ya this, guv’nor, mind —there’s
talent on both sides. I got a gift for it, mind
ya. I can talk foreign. I can’t talk Chinese,
nor I can’t talk Burmese, nor I can’t talk
Maltese, nor I can’t talk Belgese; but I can
talk foreign. And how he talks foreign to
that little Belgese girl, “two sandbags high,
she were,” makes the most humorous yarn
in this particularly bright collection.
Some Novels
John Buchan writes the usual novel of
adventure and mystery with almost a liter-
ary sfyle. His latest, Greenmantle (Hodder
and Stoughton), is crisp and up to date.
Two British officers and a benevolent, dys-
peptic “nootral” are sent on a special ser-
vice mission to Turkey, with instructions to
discover what Germany is up to among the
Mohammedans. Rumors of the advent of a
new prophet and a holy war, backed by the
Hun, and the usual mysterious clue, com-
prise all their information. Each of the
three men takes a different disguise and a
different route to reach Constantinople. That
of the narrate” '"'•fle him through Germany
at war. Consequently, there is always some-
thing doing. And when the three rendezvous
at Constantinople, they learn that their
troubles are merely beginning. The finale
takes place at Erzerum, and of course it is
due to the three heroes that the Russians
are able to capture that city. The mys-
terious female is introduced, but fortunately
doesn’t marry the hero. Brisk adventure
and a breathless plot, with heroes that can
be depended upon to possess charmed lives.
Algernon Blackwood has come to the end
of his remarkable imagination. The Wave
(Macmillan) is a short story tiresomely
expanded into a long novel. The theme is
big enough, but it is an out-size for the
trivial story it is meant to fit. “While some
think evolution moves in a--straight line
forward, others speculate fancifully that it
has a spiral twist upwards. At any given
moment the soul looks down upon a passage
made before—but from a point a little
higher. Without living through events
already experienced, it litera'rily lives them
over; it sees them mapped out below, and
with the bird’s-eye view it understands
them.” So Blackwood tries to convince us
that his three characters merely live over
again a tragedy enacted by three inhabitants
of ancient Egypt, But Blackwood fails to
make out his case that the triangular con-
flict between two men and a woman in
Egypt is motived by the compulsion of the
past. It sounds just like an ordinary love-
affair. There is no need for the author to
drag in the Ancient Egyptians. Those blokes
were probably quite like us; their life must
have been no more interesting than our
lives; there must have been Ancient
Egyptian grocers and Ancient Egyptian
navvies and Ancient Egyptian wowsers and
Ancient Egyptian flappers—rather like the
modern variety. And Blackwood’s long-
advertised climax, his hero’s dream of a
wave that overwhelmed him and two others,
is merely a brief and bathetic sand-wave
caused by a desert whirlwind, Poor stuff.
Exit Algernon.
Jt
J. Store* Clouston, author of that delight-
ful extravaganza, A Lunatic at Large,
keeps up his humorous vein in Two's Two
(Blackwood), a farcical treatment of the
Jekyll and Hyde theme. A respectable
baronet has the theory that every ’man con-
sists of two or three different men rolled
into one, and he is in himself conscious of
two sides of his nature that are acutely
contrasted. One side of him is a philan-
thropist and a social reformer; the other
side suffers from lapses, especially where
females are concerned. He determines to
experiment in dissolution, with the serious
intention of sorting but the serious side of
his nature from the irresponsible side. In
order that his better self should survive the
test he prepares himself by reading all the
most stimulating parts of Paradise
Regained, the Order of the Morning and
Evening Services, and selections from
Hamlet. To his annoyance he discovers that
he has become two men. He has merely
his lighter and his more solid
half. One of him is a charming youth, the
other is an austere wowser. Archibald, as
the youth calls himself, for the reason that
ho has never known an Archibald who wasn’t
a successful co-respondent, embarks upon a
joyous career of irresponsibility, and his
adventures, especially with women, are
irresistibly humorous. The wowser half
also compromises himself, especially with
the girl he loves. The complications that
result are highly ingenious and diverting.


A,
Anthony HordernsforTravelling Requisites
m
qlCjm
' i i,ili r ,
j
No. P3l.—Leather Portmanteau, Quality
BX— Sizes 24 26 28 30 in.
Quality AX. —Solid Lea-
th e r Portmanteau,
strong frame, brass
lock, well sewn .... 36/- 39/- 42/-
45/'
No. F3o.—Feather .Suit Cases.
No. F2o.—Gladstone Bag—
Quality AX.—Hide and Roan, nickel-plated shoes
and slides.
Sizes 20 22 24 26 in.
19/6 21/6 23/6 25/6
Quality BX. —All Cowhide, well lined, a strong
and useful bag.
24/- 26/6 29/- 31/6
No. F3s.—Half Gladstone Suit Bags. —These Suit
Bags have rounded corners. The smaller sizes are excellent
for carrying Dress Suits, and the larger for general pur-
poses. Sizes 20 22 24 26 in.
Quality AX.- —All Cowhide,
shallow make 21/- 22/6 25/- 27/6
No. F22.—The Week-end Strapped Kit Bags, with
• single handles, plain corners and side locks, straps all round,
turn-over clips—
Quality AX, as above—
No. F37.—Best Vulcanised Fibre, eight hide
corners, two sliding nozzle locks, steel frame, very
attractive and durable cases —•
Sizes 20 22 24 26 in.
Quality l 16/6 18/- 19/6 21/-
Quality 2 21/- 22/6 25/- 27/6
Quality 3, with wood battens all round, 8 protected
corners, 2 locks, strong handle —■
Sizes 22 24 26 28 in.
30/- 33/- 36/- 38/-
iMBIMI
■
No. F 23.—
Sizes 12 14 16
Quality BX. —Cowhide,
side pinch lock,
lined cloth, turn-
over clips 15/- 18/- 217-
Quality AX. —Cowhide,
with top lock,
nickelled furniture,
lined cloth ......
18 in.
24/*
12/6 14/6 16/6 18/6
No. Fss.—The Compact. —Real Cowhide, with two
side 1 straps, centre extension strap with nickelled sliding
loc tv, hide pockets and inkwell—• Size 14 x 9 in.
In superior Cowhide 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
Best Finish, in selected Cowhide —
45/-, 50/-, 60/-, 68/-
mmm
■
mm
*gi
No. 1894 Bx.—Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Cases,
Ebony-backed Brushes, 35/., 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/- each.
No. FB.—Canvas Cabin Trunks, frequently
called Overland Trunks, covered Black, Brown, or
Green Canvas, bound with hide, leather handles, eight
hide leather pieces strengthen the corners, straps all
round, wooden battens along bottom, lined striped
Linen, fitted with tray—•
Sizes 30 33 36 in.
Quality CX . 50/- 55/- 60/-
Quality AX —Covered Canvas.. 33/- 36/- 40/-
Quality BX —Covered Canvas.. 40/- 45/- 50/-
isl*
i
■. if
No. F5O. —-Ladies’ Dressing Cases —
21/-, 26/-, 30/-
The illustration shows a Folding Dressing Case. It takes
hut little room in a box or bag, and is therefore much used
in travelling.
We have a large assortment in this class of Case, the
prices varying in accordance with the size and quality of
Case, and the number of fittings therein —
12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, and up to 50/-
No. P 54. —The Brisbane Folding Dressing Case differs
from the stiff or box shape, in so far that while it contains the
same number of articles, the bulk of the case is much smaller; it
is therefore better adapted for travelling, as it takes up but little
space in one’s box or bag 42/-
Tlie design exhibits a superior Cowhide Folding Case, fitted for a
Gentleman’s use, and is very completely furnished.
We have numerous other designs in various kinds of leather —
21/-, 25/-, 30/-, and up to 70/-
22
24
26 in.
No. F29.—Leather Suit Cases—
Sizes 20
Quality DX. —Hide Suit Case,
8 hide-capped corners,
securely riveted, 2 nickel-
plated locks, a very service-
able case 40/- 44/-
Quality HX. —Hide Suit Case,
8 hide-capped corners, well
riveted, lined superior cloth,
2 best-quality locks, extra
wide and deep 50/- 55/-
48/-
60/-
52/6
65/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


•WMcmsim
' *
niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiini
Shotgun Shells
“Leader” and “Repeater”
1 j-
For the high flyers, or the low flyers,
“Leader” and “Repeater” shells have
the reach, spread and penetration.
Their great sale is due to these qual-
ities, which insure a full bag. Use them
in your gun. To be sure to get them
FOR TEE W BRAND
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
ARE. YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
m.,
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Off to a Good Start!
THIS remarkable photograph was sent us by a dentist who has used Dr. Lyon’s
products for years and recommends them enthusiastically to his patients. In
his letter he said: " Athletes all over the country are using Dr. Lyon’s.” In the race
for success there is no more dependable training direction than this: —visit your
dentist twice a year —and morning, noon and night use
For
t Beauhlvir'i
ub wsm
\'> ■ -
jggji : : gt|
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
Use both. Dr. Lyon’s Dental Cream is efficient —Dr. Lyon’s Tooth
Powder is a super-cleanser. The use of both dentifrices ensures one
hundred per cent results.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S.W.
i stro
;M ■ t ' T C I
PO*
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
fsd
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works i Birmingham, Erigl&ricl
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for
assorted Sample Box.
TRADE MARK
Christmas 8 New Year Gifts!
FURTHER
REDUCTIONS.
6 ONLY D.B.B.L. GUNS, top action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with W. W. Greener patent wedge-fast crossbolt.
Usual Price, £5/15/-. SALE PRICE, £3/15/-
4 ONLY CHAMPION HAMMERLESS D.B.B.L. GUNS, top action, walnut stock,
pistol grip, steel barrel. Usual Price, £10. SALE PRICE, £6/6/-
6 ONLY S.B.B L. DUCK GUNS, long distance, top action, kill at over 100
yards. Usual Price, £5. SALE PRICE, £3/10/-
FARMERS’ D.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 50/-. SALE PRICE, 27/6.
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 20/-
Colt’s Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
Usual Price, £6/6/-. SALE PRICE, £3/5/-
S.B. RABBIT RIFLES, kill at 100 yards. Usual Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6.
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CO.. 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
MR. T. I. CAMPBELL,
General Secretary Farmers 8 Settlers’ Association of New South Wales,
one of the best-known of Sydney’s commercial citizens, having held this important
position for years, gives this voluntary testimony to Clements Tonic, because he
states it merits it: —
“Farmers and Settlers’ Association, N.S.W.,
“7 O’Connell St., Sydney, 27/7/’ 16.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and
experience, I do not hesitate to give you my opinion of it, simply
putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it to be a very fine blood and nerve tonic. I know
that it has benefited me greatly. At various periods my duties are
exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and
I have always found your medicine of the greatest value to me,
having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of
my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling others to benefit by my
personal experience.
“(Signed) T. 1. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any man better or more widely known than the able
Secretary of this far-reaching Association, the influence of which extends over the entire State,
and whose members amongst the pastoral and farming communities of New South Wales are
to be numbered in thousands. To all of these Mr. Campbell’s letter will appeal, as equally
it will to his numberless commercial city friends, because of its sincerity and lucid explana-
tion of the worth of a medicine the effectiveness of which is felt and recognised throughout
the Australian Commonwealth.
It is truly the medicine for the man on the land. Send for it if you suffer
from Insomnia, Poor Appetite. Weak Nerves, or Brain Fag. ALL CHEMISTS.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause—and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. This acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache,_ rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out of the
system.
ACip CRYSTALS
MAGNIFIED
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a muddy bluish color—a feature which dis-
tinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief —every
time. A permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
DeWITTS
Kidney & Bladder Pills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
f
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS .
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using- sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept A 282 LIVERFCOL,
Tobacco
Kills!
adf
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO specific is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (XX, CO.,
Dept, O,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
ffHf>
DEAF
mim
1]
DEAFNESS OVERCOME
by wearing: WILSON’S COMMON-
» SENSE EAR-DRUMS.
Assist the Deaf when all
other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no
relief. They are soft, com-
fortable and durable.
STAR NOVELTY CO., Box 466,
498 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
VEIVOLIWF
A Cool, Creamy Application for
Hot Winds. Heat and Cold. Sooth-
ing and Cooling for the Sbia
ALL CHEMISTS
1/6 BOTTLE
OR POST FREE
BONNINGTON & CO. Ltd
170 HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
2\/ii
—i
asdf
The Great Preventive 4
of Mosquito, Sandfly
other Insect Bites
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINCTON & CO., LTD.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
[3
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes —and must have —the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food —a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
Melliifc Food
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial food.
Set out to feed
baby right. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most advan-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
jffuT^xxlleZvn.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, “The
Care of Infants in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
$
ss
f-
>
//
lit
Nerve
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
I HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better—and rise refreshed ; you sat better—and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give ;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeps you fit —good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
per bottle.
per bottle.
AI_L BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Little Song.
Night’s cloudv counterpane is tucked about
the sleepy town.
By two and two with blinking eyes the little
stars look down.
I wonder if they see us here together, you
and I,
Alone, my lips upon your cheek —and if they
wonder whs^?
The golden rosebud of the moon is drooping
wistfully
To hear the song the low wind sings above
the shining sea ;
A little, crooning song of Love that comes,
unseen and shy,
Into our hearts awhile, and goes so soon —
we know not why.
Your little hand is warm in mine, your voice
I cannot hear.
The world is very far away, and you are
very near.
O love that lives but in a kiss, and breathes
but in a sigh!
To-night life flings our answer back to
Death’s eternal “Why?”
N.S.W.
F. S. BURNELL.
Callao.
All day the surf springs roaring on the sand,
The silver sand a-swoon beneath fierce
skies,
And gorgeousness runs riot through the land,
And nowhere is there rest for weary eyes.
For eyes that ache with tears that may not
fall,
For white clouds scudding o’er a town high
flung
Above a bay where grey gulls wheel and call,
And all the earth is green and morning
young.
And brave eyes frankly meet a neighbor’s
gaze,
Unlike the shifting eyes I meet each day
On whose dropt lids some shrinking terror
weighs
To hide the dreams long crucified away.
I would that I might feel the gusty sweep
Of high, cold winds where hill streets sky-
ward lean ;
I would my eyes their bitter ache might weep
In salt tears for the old-time things and
clean.
Had I done prison penance for my deeds
(God, will that surf no instant cease its
boom!),
Sweet hope, maybe, had sown some little
seeds
That could have flourished to a perfect
bloom..
The ravelled ends of life to some fair scheme
With patient fingers I had worked anew,
And she of whom by day and night I dream,
With threads of gold had run the pattern
through.
But no one here is what he might have
been— -
O haunting faces with the eyes of gloom!
0 hands befouled that never can be clean !
God, will that surf no instant cease its
boom!
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.
Wet Weather.
Pools upon the pavement, round as pallid
moons;
Sobs within the .doorways, tears upon the
pane!
High up in the housetops the cool wind
croons;
The dim streets of Wellington are musical
with rain!
The tramcars of Wellington go drooning
through the hours,
Waking fountains fi-om the rails where
rinkling rivers race;
And each is like a brown bee amid the dewy
flowers,
For each is like a brown bee with dew upon
its face.
And the tramcars of Wellington, the little
weeping cars,
Are filled with wagging round heads like
peas within the pod ;
And the wee streets of Wellington know
neither sun nor stars
When Wellington is hidden in the flowing
robes of God.
But the wet folk of Wellington go laughing
to and fro —
Oh, every heart’s a merry heart that’s shel-
tered from the rain ;
And a grey phrase whispers of the storms
of long ago,
And a gay lip is singing that the wind will
swing again.
The garden of the Cityside is breaking into
bloom —
Shop fronts are tulip beds, and some are
daffodils;
And lights like early primroses are showing
’mid the gloom
Behind the swaying curtains, above the
window-sills.
The swift winds of Wellington may swing
into the West,
The clouds o’er Terawhiti may break within
the South;
The rain-song of Wellington will linger in
my breast,
For the moist kiss of Wellington is music
on my mouth !
MAORILAND,
BOYCE BOWDEN.


PEPDR^AU
Made
1m
Australia
ryo/f/rs
sy&AS/ry
ran
W
*'\ V
'A
<S
S*
/ ,
/ '
P
Keep the Home Tyres
Turning.
Australian=made PERDRIAU TYRES are giving the satis-
faction of big mileages in every part of the Commonwealth. Of
six letters just received, six users average 10,000 miles each. The sound,
sensible construction of the 3=Rib design is an ensurance of reduced friction on
the road, meaning reduced wear on the rubber. You will realise what Tyre economy is
when you begin using PERDRIAUS.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS
denyer
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
df
vjwS-'
Harnessing Nature’s forces
It is only fitting that man, the great child
of Nature, should turn to Nature’s forces
when he requires power. The mighty
Niagara was harnessed for man’s benefit.
The discovey of vast Petroleum fields pre-
sented similar opportunities. The crude
Petroleum would not serve man sufficiently
well, so he distilled it—refined it —harn-
essed it to his needs. The result is “Plume”
Motor Spirit, a most powerful driving force.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
This wonderful Motor Spirit represents
man’s greatest achievement in harnessing
Nature’s forces for the use of his fellow-
men. Plume is famous for easy starting,
besides giving more .mileage and ensuring
a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
Gargoyle Mobiloils’ secure the maximum
compression in your cylinders. Write for
free Recommendation, Chart, showing the
correct grade you should use. “A grade
for each type of Motor.” For sale at all
dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
Pbs
s \S
/?* U V\
IffS*!
\ ::
• 1
l -£~. . 'v!
■••... i
" ' : .' ,
-•«• . . ,
~‘' A " ****&•»*&*»* ** • 1 —Min
■W,. '
m;:.
to
:
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL & CO.,
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street. BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 3’.—No. 1920.
THURSDAY. JANUARY 11. 1917.
Price 6d.
“BUBBLES”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for tHE
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Tiie
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to Ihe
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carejully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in'the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the jorm of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short 'laics
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
n/ sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
. Copies 'of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egatt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Padua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one neiuspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Sioz. to lOoz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d,; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 1917.
AUSTRALIA AND WORK—OR PARTY
AND SHIRK.
Agitated partisan barrac-kers and assorted
job-hunters continue to snuffle that it is the
one duty of the Federal Parliament “to pro-
secute the war.” What they really mean is
that Parliament ought to do nothing at all.
which is what it has been doing for the last
three years. The interests of Australia in
this matter are not, however, confined to
watching performances on the political tight-
rope or making bets on the balance of party
groups. To limit the work of Parliament in
the way suggested is equivalent to utilising
the war as a means to an end, that end being
the perpetuation of the anomaly presented by
the Hughes Ministry. And that anomaly
can only be perepetuated by putting party
considerations' first, ignoring the constitu-
encies and cutting out of the political pro-
gramme matters of vital concern to the
nation. A Cook-llug ties understanding, or
whatever it might be, could no doubt sustain
a Ministry in office, for a time, at any rate.
But it would be more or less under the heel
of the Senate, and it would inevitably be a
Ministry conducted on let-it-slide principles,
filling the air with loud talk about prosecut-
ing the war and the infamy of the Germans,
and under cover of an uproarious patriot-
ism and yells about the 1.W.W., solemnly
doing nothing that mattered for Australia.
Its great justification would be that it was
verbally keen on the war, and kept the
Labor crowd off the front seats. A Ministry
for which no more than this could be said
would be as terrible a revelation of what can
happen to a democracy as the existence of
the Grab Government in N. S. Wales. That
lot of quick-change artists have the war
flag at the masthead, too. They have dis-
franchised the electors in order to carry on
the war with greater energy. And as they
have no more to do with the wax’ than with
the King of Spain, they are hanging on to
their jobs and assisting the Allies by spend-
ing millions on something else, while making
a few disjointed remarks and finding easy
billets for Gregory Wade and John Henry
Cann.
* * * *
It is only true in a restricted sense that
even the first duty of the Federal Parliament
is to prosecute the Avar. It would be childish
to pretend that the contract for defeating
the German absorbs so much of the
time of members that everything else
must be excluded. There is other work in
greater profusion than ever for Parliament
to tackle. There are problems arising out of
the war, conditions created by it. Are all
these to be allowed to go drifting and un-
attended to? Are the multitudinous public
men infesting Australia going to keep on
sticking their heads in the sand, incapable
of even attempting to grapple with the chaos
they know to be piling up around them?
The Australian tariff clamors for review.
The nation’s debts and the borrowings by the
States and the interlacing of State and
Federal taxation are subjects that only
coAvards would avoid coming to grips with.
The strike disease is iflpe for treatment, and
the arbitration system clamors either for
repair or for the scraplieap. The financial
responsibilities of the nation are reaching a
point where anything may happen. To leave
these subjects alone—to disregard the de-
mented nature of the Federal arrangement in
relation to the States —means that when
peace comes to the world Australia will be
struggling up to the neck in muddle, heavily
weighted by the consequences of political
ignorance and shirk and idolatrous worship
of the party joss.
* * * *
What the general aspect will be when the
Avar is over no man knows with certainty.
But it is not necessary to rely on guesswork
to get an idea of at least some of the scenery
that will be opened up. The public debt will
be enormous, making demands upon the tax-
payers which, if prophesied a few years, ago,
would have sounded incredible. The national
borroAving and spending will stop abruptly.
Wages will have to come out of something
that is not a p.n. Either the volume of pro-
duction for export and of manufactures for
domestic consumption must be greatly in-
creased or the bill will have to be paid by
a people ground to a state of poverty. . What
preparations does the Federal Parliament
think should be made to meet these inevitable
circumstances? Or does it imagine that it
has discharged its duty to Australia by going
into recess and blithering about prosecuting
the Avar, when all the prosecution possible
at this end consists in the capture of an
occasional recruit? An excuse that Aus-
tralia was unprepared for peace because dur-
ing the war Parliament did nothing but
confine itself to conducting the struggle and
accepting holidays would have a mighty queer
sound to people who know how abject the all-
round shirk has been. Nor will it be possible
by phrase-making about the Empire and
secret juntas and Germans for the Federal
Parliament to hide from the people that in
the realm of public and private expenditure
the grossest waste of the national strength
has been encouraged at a time when such a
thing is criminal. Australia is importing
goods at a greater rate than ever. It is a
scandal that Parliament should alloAV this to
go on —that so much of the money spent from
loans for war should be allowed to leak aAvay
for foreign-made goods. Such conduct on the
part of the State amounts to economic can-
nibalism and a prostitution of the tariff.
Australia is actually paying foreigners tAvo
millions a year for lollies and chewing-gum
and the gaudy boxes they come in. All this
is waste of what every other country on
earth is struggling to save. That it should
be going on is a mockery of the nation’s
necessities. And the tragedy is that the
Federal Government’s own record as a
Avaster of the public estate is so appalling
as to invite derision of any suggestion that
it should stop the wastage perpetrated by
the private individual. There is here alone
opportunity for Parliament to get busy on
something that would count. t This cry
about concentrating on the war at its best
means more shirk, and that is something
Australia cannot afford to have much more
of. At its worst it represents the degrada-
tion of a patriotic impulse for the ignoble
purposes of political pigmies. Australia
never Avanted a National Government so
much as it does to-day, but a Government
that called itself National and baulked at
the nation’s problems would be an enemy of
the Commonwealth.
THE BLOCKADE AND THE BER-
SERK NATION.
When Morgan, at the head of his 1100
pirates, crossed the narrow part of America
to attack the rich Spanish city of Panama,
he ought, bv all the rules of the game, to
have been beaten by the journey before he
got within sight of the plunder. The men
who followed him were starving and in rags,
and had suffered agonies of thirst through
the thoroughness with which the Spaniards
had poisoned all the wells. Things were so
bad that they had eaten strips of leather-
bags for lack of anything better to chew.
Yet their purpose never wavered. At last, as
the scarecrow army approached through the
open country, Panama sent forward 4000
lighting bulls to smash it up and utterly
annihilate it. The result was different from
any that might have been calculated on.
Morgan’s famished men saw beef; and that
settled the fate of Panama. The idea that a
nation can be starved into a feeling of bro-
therly kindness for its enemy was thus shown
to need qualification. Austria —which is not a
nation, hut a collection of States of varying
race and language chained together in an
artificial fashion —may throw in the sponge
when the cupboard is sufficiently bare ; but
to pin our faith to the belief that Germany
can be broken without blows is horribly un-
safe. What the war was really about and
who is responsible for it are dark secrets
which the German people have never
been permitted to know. The tendency
of the blockade, however, is to make
the issue clear to every German mind.
England, France and Russia stand between
the people of the Fatherland and their fat
feeding. To win is to eat to the full. To
be defeated is to continue more or less hun-
gry. This brings things down to the bed-
rock of simplicity; and.the rush of a people
united in starvation may have any sort of
result.
An examination of the forces which first
made scattered trines into a nation indicates
that the blockade by stronger combinations
has usually had a lot to do with it. Two
sets of people who have joined together to
achieve victory are not likely to be nearly so
closely knit together in the years to come as
two who can boast that they starved in
unison when the wheat was burned and the
last cow faded away. More than that, the
pride of filling the mouths of the hungry
is the highest pride of all. The warrior wl.o
goes out to slay doughty cnampions is quite
small potatoes' compared with the liope-
bringer who strikes a blow to win bread for
the women and children. There are big prin-
ciples involved here—principles which have
operated all through human story and which
are likely to operate again even in an age
of machine-made warfare. The force of the
blockade of German ports, with the conse-
quence of a shortage of sausage in Berlin
and Dresden, must be to harden the Ger-
mans into a more solid nationality. The
offer of a peace conference has been turned
down. It was impossible that it could be
considered seriously while the burglar of
Europe still had hands and feet on the
plunder; but, in turning it down and main-
taininer the severity of the blockade, the
Allied nations have to look for developments.
Mastering all other thought and dwarfing
all more highly-colored ambitions, the great
desire for something to eat may rouse the
German people to the point of fervor at
which they will hurl themselves berserk
against all their foes. In that possibility lies
the Allies’ best chance, and their gravest
danger. Meeting on equal terms, a well-fed
man ought to be able to hammer one who has
been starved; and a nation with breakfast
still in its system should smash a nation
whose sparse bread is adulterated with saw-
dust. But the danger is that the berserk
fighting may not be on equal terms. Poison
gas. liquid fire, the enslavement of con-
quered peoples and the murder of non-com-
batants have all been employed by the
Teuton to keep up his end when he was only
moderately pressed about the stomach and
had big ideas of winning. To what other
and more awful expedients might he not
resort when as a nation he goes berserk to
grab the sausage or die in the attempt? A
hunger-maddened Germany might well be for
a few months the most terrifying proposi-
tion any combination of nations has ever
been called to face. Knowing that, and
being prepared for it, all may be well. Fail-
ing to recognise it, the battle of the Somme
might easily enough have a sequel like the
splendid landing at Gaba Tepe.
Having thus very probably hardened and
consolidated the enemy, what have we done
to meet the danger? Britain and France
are, without question, now putting forward
all their energies. Australia, on the other
hand, has not yet wakened up to. the fact
that a Avar is going on in which we are
more than gravely concerned. A number
of widows and stricken mothers know;
but the politicians cannot yet be per-
suaded that the northern controversy is more
than a large-sized picnic vvith firework
accompaniments. It is partly for this reason
that, on all appearances, our children are
likely to be compelled to pay for a good deal
more than we achieve; and a bad bargain
made in. a war-time when the public suffered
nothing is likely to result in imposing some
of the natural war-time conditions on the
long succeeding years of peace. What Aus-
tralia had a right to demand AA T as good value
from the foe for all her expenditure of cash
and life; but before she could make such a
demand she had to be in earnest about it.
And so, with the whirligig of time working
its old vaudeville turns, we are forced to the
belief that Australia’s own hungry years will
come Avith the cooling of the cannon, and
that when the people know the price they
are paying they will recognise that the return
got on the battlefield for our mild entrance
into the war made the bargain a bad one.
It might be worth paying our last shilling—
if Ave could chase the elusive coin to its lair
—to land the full force of our blow on the
Kaiser’s pride; it is an open question
whether less than our full force is worth
considering as a punch at all. But the
lean years to come may have the effect of
welding us into a nation. There is hope
there at least. As the blockade may simplify
the war outlook in Germany, so, when we
discover the fact of our own political block-
ade, the meaning of a lot of other things
will be clear. For Australia is blockaded
and narrowed in by small schemers and
shallow inefficients to a point that threatens
the baby’s bottle and Cissy’s ice-cream.
Some day we, too, may go berserk.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Spree that Total Prohibition Is
Wanted For.
The man who has been paid off from a
Government job and is looking for another
somewhere else is becoming fi’equent in N. S.
Wales. “Starvation and distress” are being
spoken of. And at the Trades Hall violent
language is being used about the Ministry.
The point of this condemnation seems to be
that the Government is not keeping the men
employed by borrowing more cash to do it
with. But the real misfortune is that the
Trades Hall did not long ago damn the
borrowing it wants to see more of—that even
now it cannot realise how ruinous this
demented business is to the wage-earners and
the State. It is all very well to blame Minis-
tries for men being out of work —the politi-
cians richly deserve all the harsh things that
may be said of them—but Labor itself cannot
escape responsibility. It has persistently
encouraged artificial labor conditions. It
lias been the most reckless pawner and
the most profligate spender among all
the political parties Australia has known.
Partly because of blank ignorance, very
largely on account of laziness, and
to some extent because of a habitual
preference for the glib tongue, organ-
ised Labor has accepted from Parliaments as
a substitute for work the frequent visit to
Cohen. And with blind devotion it has fol-
lowed politicians who had nothing better to
offer the people than bird-lime. Of course, it
all had to come to an end some time; and
if the end of the section is close —well, Labor
will have the pleasure of knowing that while
it had been playing the fool, Fat has got
away with the proceeds, and that the situa-
tion is a little worse than it was originally.
That men should be unable to find employ-
ment in Australia is dreadful. There is work
to be done far beyond the capacity of the
present population to perform. But so long
as the public policy consists of putting a
plaster of debt over the carbuncle, industrial
development, will be deferred. It Avould be
more than a good thing for Australia if its
numerous Parliaments could never borrow
another stiver. Then a nation’s problems
could be worked out honestly, and the people
by their brain and muscle achieve what too
many of their public men are shirking.
The Returned Soldier.
Between the politicians, parsons, miscel-
laneous persons who want to get into the
limelight, the newspapers nosing round for
something to yell about, and the administra-
tors of various funds, the returned Australian
soldier is beginning to look like the first
stage of a nightmare; and the prevailing dis-
order threatens to collapse into still another
heap of chaos. The fact that an immense
amount of effort has been expended in order
to meet the case of the returned soldier, and
that the public is afflicted with an almost
pathetic anxiety to play the game towards
the man in khaki, makes the position at the
moment no better. Nor will it prevent the
situation getting worse, and that is so
because (1) of the failure to systematise the
business in hand and (2) of the wildly
extravagant talk and fantastic promises that
filled the air when the Australian army was
being raised by the cursed “voluntary” sys-
tem of disguised coercion and bribes.
Where are all the “farms” that were talked
about, and the supplies of cash to start
“businesses or factories” ; where is all the
machinery that was going to be put into
operation to see if men were “fit” to be
cockies, and to instruct them and weed out
the “unfit” who clamored for farms and do
all the rest of it? This paper does not know
and cannot find anyone able to explain. But
it does know that thousands of men have
been deluded into thinking that there was
something more in it than hot air, and
this, combined with the absence of any clear
understanding of Avhat a soldier is entitled to
look for from the Government, has led to
developments a long way from creditable.
Meanwhile The Bulletin wants again to
say that there are returned soldiers and
returned soldiers, and in its judgment the
variety which matters is the one which is
incapacitated—that the sick and wounded
man, the orphan and the widow have the first
claim to public cash and consideration. It
is a crime against these people, a misapplica-
tion of a trust, that any part of the relief
funds now in existence should be diverted to
men as able as their neighbors to fend for
themselves. Such men when they attempt
to prey upon these funds are suckers, and the
brutal truth is that the more opportunities
there are to suck the more suckers there will
be. It is a fair thing for us to remember
that there are Australian soldiers dying in
the trenches and hospitals still, that men are
being maimed and broken for life, and that
our responsibilities to them are not likely to
be adequately recognised under first-come-
first-served principles. This paper has no
time for the ex-soldier who, fit and well,
hurries round in search of a dole. It is the
other fellow who ought to be looked after,
even if his groans are not so loud; and Aus-
tralians ought not to forget it.
Immortality.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wandering winds that blow about the
world
Are filled with voices, ardent whisperings—
The long-drawn sighs of valiant bugle-calls
That rally lone patrols to deathless death.
The last, stark courage of uncounted men
Goes like a thrilling sigh down streams ot
air;
And sunsets bleed like an heroic wound,
And all the void is quick with selflessness,
Disbodied, and faith breaks from stems that
flower,
And inspiration breathes through twilight
grass.
Oh, fields of France, heights of Gallipoli,
And Alpine passes lifted to the stars,
And Macedonian hillsides, and the wastes
Of bitter Poland, and the meadow lands
Of Flanders, evermore as holy ground
Ye shall be known and named! The flower-
ing grass
Has drawn its life from their immortal dust
Who keep forever the stark heights they
won ;
And the iEgean, mourning in her caves,
Croons of the courage, and the martyrdom,
And of the sweet sleep of the mighty dead.
The shining glaciers are white altar-stairs
Whereon the naked soul of man was raised
To the mute heavens. The blood-sodden
earth
Of France and Flanders and the Polish
steppes
Is of such dear, yet awful, sanctity
That whoso in the years to come shall pass
At sunset by ploughed fields that now are
red
Shall surely, with a leaping heart, behold
Ranked armies, shoulder unto shoulder set;
Their lifted faces lighted as with flame,
Their tattered banners laurel-wreathed, their
blood
Sprung from the soil in roses, and the sky
Above them gold—an arch unspeakable.
The wandering winds that blow about the
world
Are filled with voices, ardent whisperings—
The long-drawn sighs of valiant bugle-calls
That rally lone patrols to deathless death.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


Holman’s Tote.
When Premier Holman was still a Labor
Premier he opposed the introduction of the
totalisa-tor into N. S. Wales on the ground
that he had “conscientious objections” to the
acceptance of revenue from a gambling
machine. As Red Tape was busy collecting
income tax from Ikey, all this was obvious
nonsense and it looked no better when Hol-
man made obscure remarks about the “dubi-
ous reasons” which influenced advocates of
the machine. Most of them were as honest
as he, at any rate. It must be said, how-
ever, that if Holman’s objection was against
a totalisator system such as he became con-
verted to immediately on throwing away his
Labor rags, there was reason behind him.
But when people spoke of introducing the
totalisator they usually meant a totalisator
worked in the interests of the public. The
thing he accepted is nothing like that; and
it is just about up to him to offer some
explanation of the “dubious reasons” that
impelled him to father the Act authorising
the totalisator which is now on the statute
book. When the Bill came forward this
paper protested against its rotten character,
and further inspection confirms this view.
The State is not getting the totalisator The
Bulletin argued for, or that any sane per-
son asked to be supplied with. As the thing
stands now the country would be infinitely
better without it. The net result is going
to be much the same as if, when a Conser-
vatorium of Music was asked for, the Min-
istry had liberated 7642 nimble-fingered
organ-grinders and an equal number of
mischievous monkeys on the public high-
ways.
Maoriland and the War Bill.
Unless the Government manages to have
everyone gaoled in the meantime, there is
going to be a loud noise in Maoriland about
the local profit-monger. By the twin process
of borrowing from J. Bull and getting high
prices for exports, the landowners and their
commercial camp-followers have since the
war broke out been coining money. The rest
of the community has been struggling with
the cost of living, paying increased taxation
and drifting further and further into debt.
And now it is beginning to turn sour. On
the one side there is much distracted talk
about “the duty of the population,” the cost
of producing wheat and mutton and butter,
the wisdom of supplying J. Bull with food
at bargain prices, “placing all our resources
at the disposal of the Imperial authorities,”
and so on. On the other side, there is fierce
protestation that the farmers and others are
entitled to their revenues in the same way
as other traders. In the end, there is great
uncertainty as to what all the talk is about,
and another illustration is given of the in-
capacity of the average Maorilander to get
down to the bedrock of his problems.' Obvi-
ously it will not make the local wage-earner’s
income any more useful to him if the Gov-
ernment collars all the meat on the pre-
mises and sells to J. Bull at half the price
paid by the British consumer for the rest of
his chops and steaks. The result of any
such transaction, extended over the whole-
field of exports, would be (1) to surrender a
large slice of the national earnings; (2) to
make the country less able to meet the cost
of war; and f 3) to increase the burden of
existing taxation. The absurdity of asking
the Maoriland producer to take less for his
supplies than is given for similar commo-
dities in the U.S.A. and the Argentine and
Australia is surely clear. That would mean
penalising Cocky for the mere sake of doing
it. The system that is being followed now
penalises everyone else but Cocky for the
mere sake of letting him fill his pockets at
the expense of the less fortunate part of the
community. The way out is not to waste
time blithering about the prices paid at the
other end of the world for wool and other
things, but to get busv on the problem of
paying for the war. It is outrageous that
Maoriland, in receipt of an immense revenue
from exports, should be borrowing from the
British Government and converting a large
part of her income by local borrowing into
permanent debt. It means shifting on the
debt to the next generation, which can be
confidently relied upon to have quite enough
to do without paying for the wars and eva-
sions and mouthing loyalties of the men of
to-day. It is idiotic to grumble because
the country’s earnings are high. What
can be avoided is the economic mis-
use of these earnings. A land-tax with-
out exemption to cover the cost of war,
make decent provision for the men who
are being conscripted for military service
and for the maimed and bereaved afterwards,
would sweep up most of these war profits,'
hurt no one, keep the country out of a bog,
and bring relief to the crowd of wage-
earners now nursing the baby.
♦
Eureka.
“Playbird” for the defence:—
“Die Mihi,” in his remarks concerning the Eureka
rebellion, claims that he is a perfervid Australian
and knows his country’s history. Well, it must hav,e-
been a squint-eyed Tory history he has been reading
this time. Perhaps Gyles Turner’s petty and false
account of the Rebellion.
“Gold by the law of Britain was a royal metal.
The gold did not belong to the diggers. It was the
property of the State then as now.” What sort of
argument is this? Did the State ever make this
claim? Even in the bitter political fight of ’55, the
aftermath of the Eureka rebellion, the autocratic
Hotham and the squattocracy of a nominee Parlia-
ment were not so loose-headed as to make that argu-
ment part of their pleading.
“The State asked £lB per year for a license to
pick up gold in slugs on the surface.... Surely 30s.
per month was not too much to pay for the privilege
of gathering it in chunks and hunks.” Firstly, in
’54 the license fee was much more than 30s. per
month; but let that pass. Take the “Commonwealth
Official Year Book” down, and these facts appear.
In 1854 the gross value of the gold won from the
earth in Victoria was £8,873,932. A very low
estimate of the diggers in Victoria in ’54 is 100,000.
This gives average annual earnings of £BB 14s. lOd.
That’s what “Mnu” calls picking up chunks of gold !
No doubt many diggers made fortunes; bu,t by far
the. greater number did not make tucker and were
glad to get back to their trades, thus laying the
foundation of the bright, busy, industrial boom in
Victoria in the ’6o’s.
But what is meant by “the State” ? The diggers
and the many tradesmen they supported formed 75
per cent, of the population and provided probably
the same proportion of the revenue. Yet aot one
had a vote. Not one man represented them in the
Parliament: The Legislature was a close preserve for
the squattoeraey and was ruled by an all-powerful
Governor. Of course England at the time was in
much the same state. But the governing classes of
England had education and whatever refining influ-
ences birth and breeding give, whereas the ruling
class of Victoria was an ignorant one, whose only
claim to superiority was the possession of many sheep
and vast areas of land which had never been paid
for.
True, in the heterogeneous cosmopolitan diggings
were assembled good, bad and indifferent from the
four corners of the earth. But the great bulk had
come from Britain, men with the love of adventure
in their veins, men whose great-sires had followed
Drake and Raleigh, whose sons faced the privations
of the Westralian gold rushes, whose grandsons met
the Turks on Gallipoli. And these men were treated
by the handful of squatters as dirt, as scum, as
refuse. Thousands of them had been Chartists in
’4B (practically every point of the Charter they
fought for is on the law books now, both here and
in Britain), and were these men with right and
might on their side going to submit to the domina-
tion of a handful of ignorant sheep-rearers whose
only claim to power was that they had come over
a dozen years earlier and “taken up land”?
‘ Dic’s” final remarks re the Boston Yankees show
the conservative, early-Victorian kink in his mind.
If ever there was a just war in the world it was the
American War of Independence. Every reputable
modern British historian admits the justice of the
American Colonies’ claims..
Here are the real causes of the Eureka rebellion:—
(1) An exorbitant license fee, levied on all resi-
dents of the diggings, no matter whether they were
diggers or not.
(2) The brutal methods adopted by the police in
their so-called digger hunts.
(3) The absolute impossibility of getting justice
from a corrupt magistracy. The shocking abortion
of justice in the Scobie-Bentley-Dewes case is air
example.
(4) The refusal of the Parliament to give the
diggers any representation, i.e., they claimed “No
taxation without representation.”
And the results of it:—
(1) The first attempt to form a Representative
Parliament in any of the British colonies.
(2) The taking away of all the autocratic powers
of the Governor.
(3) The purification of the magistracy.
(4) The fair and equitable adjustment of taxation.
The Eureka Rebellion was only a small affair, but
its effects were momentous. From it sprang the
democracy of Australia. When our country swings
fairly away on its great path of nationhood and
years allow the past to be viewed in true perspective,
Eureka s 3rd of December will become one of our
great days of the year, and the slopes outside
Ballarat will be recognised as holy ground where
brave men died that Australia might be free. And
more—where by their death they did actually make
Australia free.
* __
The Habit of Waiting for the Flood.
The disaster in 'Queensland which has
resulted in so serious a loss of life has made
a whole continent hold up hands of shocked
amazement that intelligent citizens should
be content to place their homes where they
are in danger of destruction the moment
tlie weather conditions are a little beyond
the normal. There had been warning after
warning of the real nature of the peril, and
most of the people of the doomed township
quite frankly admitted that something ought
to be done about it; but nothing was done
about it, and the flood came along at last
to verify all prophecies and hand out the
due punishment to those who staked their
lives against the chance of the weather keep-
ing dry. The result may be an effort of
some sort. to get other townships and even
bigger cities into defensive shape against
their own special dangers; but it is not
likely that the warning will be taken in
dead seriousness in as far as it applies
to things of larger and more far-reaching
significance. Thus it is quite possible that
Sydney may wake up to the fact that usable
fire-escapes are seldom attached to the build-
ings where they are likely to be most needed
and that fire is quite as sudden as water
when it is out to ravage; but the far more
startling fact that a huge portion of the
weatlh of Eastern Australia is crowded upon
a small peninsula between Woolloomooloo
Bay and Darling Harbor, and within range
of the guns of an enemy well out at sea, is
not likely to force itself on the intelligence
of the person who brays of the value per
inch of George-street frontages. Congestion
such as . that which Sydney continues to
endure is about as dangerous as living
under a cracked reservoir dam at the end
of a dry spell. It invites calamity, and it
is likely to keep on inviting it until the
ferocious animal actually arrives. The same
is true of the importing policy which under
all the patriotic talk still has a vigorous
life in the souls of those who intend to use
it for all it is worth once the war stops,
b or .a nation to live under the great cracked
retaining-wall of an importing policy is
obviously to take risks of a terrifying sort;
and some day Australia’s best hopes may
be entirely swirled away in the flood of
cheap things made by the cheap foreigner.
But Clermont can’t teach lessons like these.
The national imagination works in narrow
circles, and a separate calamity is wanted
to impress each point in the' rhetoric of
logic against the sophistry of Don’t-Care-a-
Damn.
■ ♦
The Miraculous Element in British
Victories.
British victories by land and sea have
generally had something of the miraculous
about them. Look at the Napoleonic wars.
Nothing doing for years until St. Vincent
won a victory at sea. Then Providence
took a hand, and sent Nelson to smash the
enemy through neglecting to do what he was
told! The Nile fight, which left Napoleon’s
army stranded in the East, was in the same
category. You can easily prove it now on
the map that the British fleet couldn’t have
licked the French in the position they had
taken up. Later, in the Spanish peninsula,
John Moore got an idea. That, looked a
miracle, too; for there hadn’t been an idea
in the British army since Marlborough left
it; and here was a General actually thinking
a thought that burst up the whole French
strategy for months! Anybody who lias read
knows that Waterloo was a miracle. The
thing simply couldn’t be done. Napoleon’s
strategy was as good as ever: the big Prus-
sian army was retreating; and the stand at
Waterloo was a joke. Providence now has
its chance again. There has been any
amount of fighting; and the bulk of neutral
opinion suggests that, while there may be
plenty more of an even worse sort, nobody
can win straight out. About here the
miracle ought to happen which ends in the
band playing “Australia Will Be There” to
an astonished Berlin. And then the solid
arrogance of the Briton will be able to assert
itself to the annoyance of all foreigners for
another century. Providence seems to like
that sort of thing if you carry it off with an
air of religious solemnity
«
An important part of the excuse advanced
by the Holman Government for the
Norton Griffiths deal was that the shin-
dykit had a vast quantity of available cash
which would obviate the necessity for trans-
actions with an ordinary Cohen. The
terms of the agreement provided for
£4,000,000 being spent in the first two years.
That period expires in November next. Up
to date about £3,y00,000 has been spent;
but it is now announced that as “a con-
cession to the Government” Norton
Griffiths will not spend £2,500,000 during
the next 11 months. That leaves something
to be explained. Part of the weird arrange-
ment was that a battalion of Norton
Griffiths officials should ue placed on the
State pay-roll, and they are there now,
reaching down a good healthy allowance per
month. Thus, although the shindykit’s
millions are not to be spent, the State’s
wages bill has been pushed up by thousands
per annum. What are these superfluous
persons doing? What are they wanted for?
«
The Earl Granville who has been appointed
British Diplomatic Agent to the Venizelos
Provisional Government at Salonika —a
ticklish job—is grandson of the Granvllle
who was longtime Gladstone’s Minister for
Foreign Affairs. A talent for tact is said
to run in the Granville family. The
present Earl is well up in foreign languages,
anyhow, and at 44 is still young enough to
be alertly suspicious. In Greece these times
a diplomat must be always looking for
treachery, and able to recognise it at first
glance. There is something pathetic in the
recollection of the late Kitchener’s “mis-
sion” to Greece 20 months ago. Con-
stantine the King seems to have hood-
winked him by merely professing to be frank
and open. “We talked together as soldiers
and soon came to a complete understanding,”
said the Kaiser’s slippery brother-in-law. A
very one-sided understanding it was. Con-
stantine got to know all about K. of K.
and his plans, whilst the Englishman got
nothing but lies from the Dago. It may
be supposed that Earl Granville is at least
a professional unbeliever with a misleading
smile.
♦
This is taken from a New Year sermon by
an Australian bishop :
We who cannot fight shoulder to shoulder with
the men in the trenches should endeavor to assist
them by coming into touch with them through our
supplication. We should pray for justice, truth,
mercy, honor, peace 'and love amongst mankind.
Episcopal and other exhortation to pray for
peace is having a confusing effect on the
minds of sinners and the righteous alike. In
the allied and enemy countries the Church
is busy encouraging soldiers to fight, blessing-
banners and proclaiming that Jehovah is a
Man of War. And while the young and
the strong are urged from the pulpit ito bog
in with a bayonet and achieve victory by
slaughter, the old and the very young who
remain at home are told that they must
pray for peace. This mixture of bellicosity
and humility seems to imply the existence
of clerical doubt as to whether Providence
can be most impressed by vehemence of bash
or volume of supplication. Certainly an in-
stitution which urges people both to pray for
peace and to fight suggests that it is more
firmly persuaded about the expediency of
backing a winner both ways than convinced
that reliance on prayer represents a sound
national programme.
Chief Sec. Donald McLeod, of Victoria,
after publishing his definite intention to
appoint a few policewomen, and receiving
90 applications from parties willing to
clothe themselves in a short skirt and a
little brief authority, has changed his
elderly mind and decided that the time isn’t
ripe, after all. This was his attitude when
he first became Chief Sec. Then he deter-
mined to try a couple. Then he reached
the conclusion that he wouldn’t. Before
long he announced that he would, and his
latest decision is that he won’t. The reason
for this final won’t and for rejecting the 90
applicants is national economy; and it seems
a pity that the Minister wasn’t able to be
economical before wasting a lot of printing,
advertising space and departmental time, as
well as a share of his. own expensive brain-
services. Still, it has not yet been made
clear in exactly what way the' latest decision
is economical. Efficiency and economy go
hand in hand ; and you can’t get either by
putting on a man to do what is essentially
women’s work —it doesn’t matter whether it
is card-indexing, looking after young o-irls
or using a bushel of tact where the he-
policeman provides about 2oz.
“Canuck” : Here is the military history of a
young friend of mine. He volunteered IS
months ago, and was rejected on account of
deficient chest measurement. Twelve months
later he had another try, but was still half
an inch short. He was, however, accepted
for Home Service on the understanding that
he should go to the Front if he put on the
needed half-inch. He was trained in mod' ra-
tion for a few weeks, and then sent to
another camp on police and other duty.
After the Referendum he assisted in dismant-
ling that camp ; and then, having put on more
than the required half-inch of chest, he was
invited, with others on Home Service, to
volunteer for “permanent guard-duty.” They
all declined, and were promptly told to hand
in their kits and go about their business.
There were six half-trained lads'thus dis-
charged that day. Last week my lad made a
new—his third-attempt, and was promptly
accepted for active service. If the military
chiefs want men as badly as they say they do
that lad should have been in France by now.
Another chapter of his story calls loudly for
investigation. When he and the other five
were discharged they were given orders on
the Red Cross depot at the rear of the Mel-
bourne barracks, where each was handed two
pairs pvjamas, two pairs underpants, two
flannels and two pairs socks. These articles
bore the labels of up-country Red Cross
branches; all were misfits, and one sock con-
tained a kindly message from the knitter
wishing the recipient “a charmed life and a
safe return.” I wonder if the kindly woman
who knitted those socks —they came from
Ararat-—dreams that they were given to a
lad on his discharge from Home Service, fit
and well. Have the Red Cross people more
goods than they need for those actually fight-
ing, or is this sort of thing plain—what?
Fruitgrowers in the coastal districts of
N. S. Wales are having a melancholy time
this over-wet year, thanks to the prevalence
of brown rot, which turns stone fruit putrid.
If there are a few diseased peaches in a case,
the whole lot will rot in a few days. In
some of the orchards half the fruit is mil-
dewed and rotting on the trees. Yet 80 per
cent, of the damage could have been avoided
if fruitgrowers had adopted scientific
methods. Spraying at the right time with
lime sulphur gives these fungus diseases a
horrible bump. But because the State does
not make the grower spray, he mostly doesn’t
do it; and the efforts of those who do are
neutralised by the neglect of the others. An-
other folly is that tons of fruit have come
into the Sydney market in cases reeking
with contagion; and nothing being done to
cleanse or sterilise these boxes go back to
the orchard, or into some clean district,
carrying the disease spores with them.
Frequently, also, decayed fruit is picked out
of one grower’s case and thrown into an-
other’s, and thus contamination is spread.
It is a ruinous business and badly needs
cleaning if there is ever to be a hope of the
public getting cheap fruit, and the orchard!st
a decent living.
• -V
He was an Australian, and one day while
reading about what happened at the Front he
found a notion sprouting under his hat. By
sundown he figured it out that if this sprout
were planted in France many lives should be
saved. So he wrote to the British War
Office and asked what it thought of his
notion. The reply was prompt—a printed
form stating that the thing was useless.
Further information convinced the man
that the War Ofliee was —well, wrong.
Therefore, after a while, he wrote to
the Inventions Board, then just estab-
lished. Back came a letter intimating that
an investigation would be made. Later on
a lot later on—there was more corres-
pondence, in which it was explained that the
idea had been examined and the verdict of
the Board was that it could not be adopted.
Then, later still, the Australian read in
English papers that trials were being made
at the Front of something which was the
same as the affair he had schemed out; and
when he subsequently found that it was
being extensively employed he commenced to
wear a worried look. Incidentally it has
been explained that many lives have been
saved by the idea. Which seems to imply
that many were lost by regarding it as a
joke in the first place. But nobody at Head-
quarters is going to be hanged with his own
red tape for the murders.
—
“Southern Cross” : The question of “cruci-
fixion” (Field Punishment No. 1) was
brought up at the recent Inter-State Labor
Conference in Melbourne by T. D. Mutch, a
N. S. Wales delegate. On his advice it was
decided to ask “Jupp” Gardiner, leader of
the Labor party in the Senate, to get a select
committee appointed to inquire into the
iniquity. Officers who have sat on courts-
martial say that the regulations allow up to
JO days F.P. No. 1, and that the full extent
of. the penalty is freely inflicted in the
British armies. Australians rarely get more
than 28 days; in fact, in most cases of
breach of discipline for which F P No 1 is
handed out to English troops, Australian
officers prefer to inflict C.B.—“Confined to
Barracks though English officers shake
their heads at the “leniency.” In the Com-
mons some weeks ago there was brought to
fight a case in which a soldier got 90 days
1.1. No. 1 for driving a waggon too fast in
Prance, thereby endangering the lives of
children on the road. In addition to physi-<
cal punishment his pay was stopped for' 90
days and Ins wife in England, who had
children to support, lost her allotment for
that period. Forster, of the War Office
admitted the facts, but said the Government
could not interfere with the sentence of the
court-martial. But the 0,000,000 voters who
are in khaki will do a whole lot of “inter-
fering” when the war is over.
■ +
The outstanding point about the Vic. Inde-
tei minate Sentences Board’s last report is
that theie seem to be precious few unregene-
rate women. In eight years only 17 women
beeu introduced, and but three are being-
held ; whereas in the same period 845 men
have been handled. Of these 214 were re-
leased on probation, and 04 of them have
made good by keeping out of noticeable
trouble for two years. Sixty-five others have
returned for another helping of correction.
Eleven men were released by special author-
ity from the Governor. As to them the
Board says nothing ; neither,does the Gover-
nor. though the information would be inter-
esting.


Solving the Problem of Insurance.
There’s no need to explain to the farmer the wisdom of insuring his crops. He knows from bitter experience the disastrous effects of fire and hail on
his year’s labor. Only the improvident gambler and the hopelessly ignorant trust to luck nowadays. A more difficult matter until recently, however, nas
been to decide
Which is the Best Insurance Co. for the Farmer to Place His Insurances?
That problem was solved for the Farmer with the foundation of.
T l !,‘Farmers 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A us Js!l a
THE FARMERS’ INSURANCE CO.
A co-operative company owned by the farmer
and controlled entirely in his interests.
CO-OPERATE AND BECOME A SHAREHOLDER. Over a thousand Farmers have already taken shares.
INSURE IN YOUR OWN COMPANY, and participate in the profits your business creates.
On the first year’s operations a dividend of SIX PER CENT was paid to Shareholders.
Fullest particulars gladly
supplied on aoplication.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 Martin Place, SYDNEY. Branches in Queensland, Victoria 8 Siuth Australia.
The Prospect before General Outlook.
HoW much longer General Muddle is going
to rule the roost in Greece has not yet been
explained. He has had a fairly long innings,
anyhow, and if there is anything except
ehabS to show for it ail it has been kept
a profound secret There is just a dim pos-
sibility that Muddle is a Strategist df great
guile, who, when he has manoeuvred the
Situation into a state that makes it opaque
to everybody else, is going to produce a
handful of trumps, throw them down, and
emerge a winner. Pending consummation of
ali this, the events iil that quarter are as
suggestive bf an early victory for the Allies
aS the continued activities of the submarine
are. Sefvift, Montenegro and Roumania
have been over-run, and the Greek appears
to be so much impressed by the Allied army
at Salonika that if he wants to do anything
at all it is to get ill On the Side of the
German. There has been a riot of
writing, conferences and explanations, and
the net result is a collection of confusion
that looks like the wildest romance. The
German’s greatest ambitions are in the
direction of Asia via ther*®alkans. Defeat
on his own frontiers would mean destruc-
tion of those ambitions. But he has yet to
be defeated there, and the size of the job
can be to some extent measured by the
battle of the Somme and the inescapable
fact that during the past few months the
German grip in the Balkans has been
tightened. Neither side is in a frame of
mind to knock off, and it will do Australia
no harm to remember that the fight for this
country’s freedom from a menace more real
than anything it ever dreamed of is a long
way from being over. The yarns about Ger-
man food shortage mean nothing. It is
the armies in the trenches that count —and
judged by them Germany is still strong,
defiant and resourceful. That is the sort
of eneijiy we are facing. What are we going
to do about it? Say “I beg your pardon—
I misjudged you,” and own ourselves licked,
or go into this business as if our life and
happiness depended upon the result, as
indeed they both may?
.
Joe Cook knows that the Hughes Govern-
ment has no right to be where it is—he
knows it is a barnacle and a usurper. Let
him speak for himself —*
Our attitude is shaped by the great overwhelm*
ing issues which are being determined in other parts
of the world, and by the need which exists here to
do everything we can to assist the Motherland to see
this war through to a triumphant conclusion. How
else would it be possible for a great party, such as
ours is, to swing behind a party which is a much
smaller party ? How else is it possible that we
could be to-day keeping in power, office and respon-
sibility a number of men p:ho, on every democratic
principle, have no claim whatever to be in their pre-
sent positions ? On no party or political considera-
tion could they be permitted to stay there for one
minute. .. .Neither on account of the war nor on
account of the principles of democratic freedom and
democratic responsibility can it be defended in its
present aspect.
No stronger condemnation of the Liberal
conspiracy to keep Hughes on the back of
Australia like an Old Man of the Sea could
be framed. If Cook and bis friends cannot
run a Ministry—if they are afraid of being
stabbed by Hughes —there is nothing to pre-
vent them assisting Tudor to win the war.
That at least would be understandable. For
it would be the rankest misrepresentation to
allege that Hughes is capable of stirring
Australia to any greater effort in the war
than Tudor, tin the contrary, it is abso-
lutely certain tnat, so long as Hughes re-
mains in power, large rummers of men will
stand aloof from every war-movement. They
will do nothing for which Hughes could
afterwards take credit. If “democratic free-
dom” and “responsibility” are outraged by
the existing arrangement, the last words
have therefore been spoken, and Cook will
never be able to condone his participation in
this offence by hifalutin’ about winning the
war.
The twelve prizes for Highland dancing
at Bendigo’s 1917 New Year Caledonian
Sports were won by the following braw
Scots: C. Cravino, D. Francella, T. Bouvard
and M. Esposisto.
The Hepburn Spa people write to say,
anent “O.K.’s” comment (B. 28/12/T6),
that none of the remarks can apply to the
present co., at any rate, seeing that that
co. is only six months old. The old co. was
bought out about the middle of last year.
But how that touches “O.K.’s” grievance
isn’t clear. His grumble was that any co.
should have been given first call on a nat-
ural medicinal spring—to whose value, by
the way, he certifies by making an annual
pilgrimage to Daylesford.
Died in Adelaide, in the nineties, Thomas
Caterer, the last of a family which began
to teach the S. Australian youth as far back
as ’54. Like brother Fred, who died some
years ago, he was no scholar to speak of,
but they both passed on a good, practical
commercial education, and their schools had
a marked influence on Adelaide. A son,
Ainsley, is acting headmaster of St. Peter’s.
He can’t be appointed permanently because
he isn’t an Anglican parson.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cinema Star”
Criterion “The House of Glass”
Royal “On Our Selection”
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart"
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Dandies
White City Various Shows
Wirths’ Hippodrome .... “A Daughter of the Gods”
mei.itorl,ne snows for coming week.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built”
Royal “The Woman”
Kino’s “Happy-go-lucky O Shea”
Princess’s “She Stoops to Conquer”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Pink Dandies
Hoyt’s Di; Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “Where Are My Children?”
“The Woman,” staged at Melbourne
Royal last Saturday, is a hotch-potch of
previous Yankee telephone dramas, sour in
character and mechanical in movement. The
colorless young son of a wealthy political
grafter wants to marry the daughter of a
respectable politician who was ruined by
the grafter and his party. Practically the
same trio occur in “The Lion and the
Mouse.” In this case the grafters are up
against an “insurgent” politician who is
blocking one of their railway jobs in the
House of Reps., and whose respectability
threatens to resist all attempts at blackmail.
But before he has brought their dirty Bill
to grief their boss—the Hon. Jim Blake —
discovers that the pattern of morality has
been guilty in the past of enjoying one
blissful Saturday to Monday at the seaside
with a girl who ought to have been his wife
but wasn’t. Jim Blake’s secret inquiry
agents learn everything about Matthew
Standish’s week-end indiscretion except the
identity of the mysterious Woman. So
James adopts simple theatrical devices to get
on the track of this missing Woman by means
of telephone clues. And all the time she
“THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT,”
AT HER MAJESTY'S, MELBOURNE.
Harry Roxhury as
Sammy.
Arthur Stigant as
Dame Barleycorn.
was his own dear daughter and the adored
wife of another legislative grafter. The
telephone girl knows this. The audience
knows it. Yet the grafters to a man are
ignorant of the fact that Jim Blake’s one
ewe lamb had formerly been engaged to Mat-
thew Standish and had lived with him as his
wife for two days, after which she refused
to marry the gentleman on the ground that
she didn’t love him any more. The differ-
ence between the Woman who went astray
with Matthew and the girl who was tricked
into indiscretion in “On Trial” is that the
one didn’t want to marry the bachelor,
whereas the other couldn’t marry a seducer
who was married already. Both girls get
into a terribly awkward fix as the result of
having kept their similar secret from hubby.
Also in this drama there is a severe cross-
examination of the telephone girl, which
begins when the curtain is falling on one act
and is continued before the curtain rises on
the next act. It is a repetition of what hap-
pened in “On Trial.” One way and another
the mechanism of “The Woman” is always
appealing to this scribe’s recollections of
other dramas which were less unconvincing.
Every “strong” theatrical situation in it
rings untrue. It is all ’phone and falseness.
* * * *
The acting seems to lose heart as soon as
the plot thickens, owing partly, perhaps, to
the incapacity of Miss Gwen Burroughs
for the emotional character of the wife.
Her husband (Sidney Stirling) and brother
“ON OUR SELECTION,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Dave (Fred Macdonald) demands his collar,
Joe (Arthur Bertram) wants new socks,
and Sarah (Laura Roberts) sniggers.
(George Willoughby) add no histrionic
laurels to their brows. George Bryant is
a rather striking and warm-hearted boss
grafter at the outset, but the unreality of
his paternal situation seems to get him
beaten at the finish. The other grafters —
Atholwood, Leslie Victor and 11. Leigh—
perform their easy jobs naturally, but Miss
Parkes is happy only in the lighter parts
of her heavy task as the telephone girl.
The one irreproachable member of the cast
is Harold Moran. He impersonates a name-
less boarder at the hotel where all the
trouble eventuates, and is merely required to
talk casually and loudly into the blessed
’phone for two minutes.
The Royal Comics have safely hitched
themselves to “The Cinema Star” at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney). It’s n bright show,
the brighter for Minnie Love’s work.
That money-spinner for the Bailey-Grant-
Duggan co., “On Our Selection,” is busy
again at the Royal (Sydney). It’s the
draw of the co.’s season as usual.
Bert Bailey has made arrangements to
change over from Sydney Royal to the Cri-
terion for Sumner Locke’s comedy, “Mum
Dawson, Boss.” It is a wise move, as the
compact little theatre is better suited to the
closely-played type of farce. The energetic
little author, besides striking a novel vein of
Australian comedy, has built several charac-
ters that defy stage tradition, and have their
human moments. And the absence of slap-
stick caricature should be a welcome feature.
Sydney Criterion audiences are throwing
stones at “The House of Glass.” Some of
the bricks must have hit the box-office, for
the last nights are already announced.
When will the Firm discover that it can’t
keep on feeding American crook plays to
Australian audiences?
“Peg” is still pegging away at Sydney
Palace, though the end of the thunderstorm
season is announced. It will happen next
week. Incidentally the Palace is to be
internally recqnstrueted in part. The Taits,
who have a long lease of the theatre, will
stage “Very Good Eddie” there on Feb. 10.
The brightest turn that has come to the
Tivoli (Sydney) for a long time arrived this
week in custody of the Togas, Japanese. If
anybody has seen cleverer juggling and more
artistic balancing The Bulletin would like
the address of the performer. Fine pro-
gramme this week —greatly helped, of course,
by Sydney James and Madeline Rossiter.
The White City (Sydney), under the
inspiration and management of T. H. Eslick,
aided and abetted by the heat which is so
helpful to open-air entertainment these
nights, is doing very well, thank you. This,
season the big show has been made more
attractive and it’s more convenient. To-
night there is to be a festival, marked
“special” on the calendar.
Since the recent success of the sextette at
the Garden Theatre (Sydney) the Dandies
have been making a feature of part-singing.
Leaving aside the fine blending of the voices
the team has apparently dropped on a
secret deposit of good numbers. Daylight
saving has driven the management to fix the
opening hour at 8.30.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s there is no more
“Richard III.” for the present. The man-
agement must have come to the conclusion
that bad King Dick was hot stuff for warm
weather, so on Saturday there was a revival
of “As You Like It,” and the advt. laid
stress on the coolness of the theatre. Allan
Wilkie’s production of this pretty Shak-
spearean tissue of absurdities and popular
quotations is the same artistic success as
before. The performance has been bettered
by some alterations in the cast since the
first time the same Rosalind and Orlando
met in the same “desert inaccessible” where
there are lions on the loose and sheepruns
and farmhouses for sale. The incredible
Forest of Arden will spread its melancholy
boughs for six nights only. On Saturday
comes Oliver Goldsmith’s “She Stoops to
Conquer,” not staged in Melbourne for 25
years or more.
The panto, known as “The House That
Jack Built” flourishes eight times a week at
Melbourne Majesty’s. Presently the orches-
tra will subdue itself sufficiently to let the
gentle voices of the lady principals give
their song words a chance. Meanwhile the
ballet-dancing remains sweetly audible above
the flowing accompaniments, every word in
the poetry of motion being feelingly recited
by Maggie Dickinson’s limbs. Also every-
thing in the garden (including standard
roses) is lovely at Tulip Time, and Sammy
continues to supply the Dame with droll
reflections when she gazes into the missing
looking-glass.
“The Accidental Honeymoon,” tried by
the Kate Ilowarde Co. at Melbourne King’s
on Saturday, is a farce of ancient pattern
that hides the light of its authorship under
a merciful anonymity. The unknown author
takes the usual pair of eloping couples, and
having dumped them in a waybaek tavern,
leaves them to revel in a series of comedy
situations that were beginning to look de-
cayed in the era of our grandfathers. But
the trouble with the playwright is that,
when he had run the whole gamut of plagia-
rism, making his quartette father and son
and mother and daughter, and also involving
them in fraudulent matrimony to increase
the complications and give spice to their
adventure, he leads them into such a
dramatic impasse that he can only rescue
them with any appearance of decorum by
the desperate expedient of bringing down the
curtain and letting the characters escape in
the confusion. Comedy of that sort, which
mostly substitutes horseplay for humor and
brightens the dialogue with flying missiles,
is very easy thinking, but hardly deserves to
be spoken aloud. However, a fair house
gave the piece a respectful hearing on Satur-
day, and received the cast with some
applause. Lesley Adrienne takes the part of
Millie Match, a small lover of romance, who,
having tasted the imitation in boarding-school
novels, almost bolts the reality in the com-
pany of Cuthbert Claxton. Millie’s child-
ish sentimentality is doomed to extinction by
Miss Adrienne, who merely appears as an
animated doll made vocal by a soprano with
a cold in it. Austin Milroy, as Cuthbert, her
excessively effusive admirer, almost bursts in
his endeavor to grow lyrical in a large, high
collar. Olive Sinclair does better as Millie’s
mamma, but she is almost youthful enough to
reverse the relationship. Enid Bowman, as
the tavern mistress, has enough acid to keep
her sour for the evening. W. Maloney and
Lester Carey figure as a coon car-conductor
and a pathetically inept policeman, and Elton
Black is a rough-and-ready waiter whose feet
were made for disaster and whose paws were
shaped for tips. Practically every member
of the co. talks Amurkan fluently, exclaims
“Gee!” says “foirst” for “first,” and forges
and utters similar perversions in a manner
which would make Hale Hamilton swear
they were Broadway born. Next Saturday
Allen Doone reappears with “Happy-go-
lucky O’Shea.”
There is little else than Follies and Fred
Bluett at Melbourne Tivoli, and the Follies,
at least, are quite as good as they used to
be. The inclusion of Daisy and Sydney
Yates has given the medley a touch of refine-
ment. Moreover, a new field of industry has
been opened to some of the moderately
musical* choristers. Four couples of them
venture into the d.c. and the girls dangle
their legs over the parapet whilst their
respective young men hold them in an
“THE WOMAN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Five scoundrel politicians of the modern ’Murkan
kind ;
A ’phone girl who is cute beyond her years;
A wife whose lawyer-husband seems ridiculously
blind
To the patent cause and reason of her tears;
A chain of situations incidental to the fact
That the rotters want to learn a Woman’s name,
And a mushy ’Murkan ending to the third and final
act
Where the Woman makes confession of her Shame.
A stink of foul corruption in the story of the play,
An odor that is wearisomely’ stale;
A son who loves the ’phone girl in a callow ’Murkan
way;
A doting Dad who glories in blackmail;
A secret which the audience can fathom from the
first
Re a giddy week-end happening of yore;
A bubble complication which, of course, is bound to
burst,
And —a play composed of dramas gone before.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
4
I
A Hot Day Suit-30|-
A “NO-VESTE” STYLE made of Biscuit-colored Aero-Crash,
a pre-shrunk washing material that has plenty of “body,”
but is one of the coolest of cotton cloths. Coat is in S.B.
Sac style with two outside pockets, three detachable buttons,
vent in back. Trousers have side pockets, belt loops, and
plain bottoms.
This is an ideal suit for the surfer and for country wear.
Ready to Wear - 30/-
\ We Pay Postage.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside leg measurement.
Peapes Co., Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 fKI 311 George St., Sydney*.
uncomfortable position. A pleasing varia-
tion of this effect could be obtained by put-
ting the young men on the ledge of the d.c.
in order that the girls might stand behind
and assist them to fall off. Miss Belle
Oliver will reinforce the bill on Saturday.
"THE PASSING SHOW,” AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Graystone, James , and Connie Milne in an
opera burlesque.
The Dandies at St. Kilda (Vic.) broke
out in a pimple of “Faust” last week, and
also combined their voices in a mysterious
composition called “A Syncopated Boogie.”
In the second part Brock’s troupe spent an
hour at “The Ship Inn” in a series of mostly-
nautical disguises. The company seemed a
little tired, but became a glee party when
Joe Brennan was about; for Brennan’s
natural gaiety as an ac-tor is immensely
infectious.
The film-spectre of Tyrone Power will
cease to ask for his children at Melbourne
Auditorium after Friday night. On Satur-
day E. ,T. Carroll promises the first screen-
ing of “Ramona,” which portrays in 10 sec-
tions and 1000 scenes Helen Hunt Jackson’s
story of early California. The film will be
shown twice daily and will be “cued” to a
specially-written score performed by a sym-
phony orchestra.
Hoyt’s have a stoushing parson on view
at Melbourne Olympia this week. The
pugnacious pilot is dealing out opiates to a
group of festive cowboys in “On the Night
Stage.” A more peaceful subject running at
both of Hoyt’s theatres is “The Light of
Happiness,” from which Viola Dana wfisc-
fully peers as the bedraggled daughter of a
boozy parent. The third feature introduces
the new “find,” June Caprice, who turns out
to be a clever imitation of Mary Pickford
with some of the smile rubbed off.
* * *
Adelaide, which does not originate much
in the dramatic way, has dashed in with a
candid syphilis drama—on the film. It is a
practical story, showing the jolly station-
hand, the bad company he gets into in town,
and the usual consequences-, ending in sui-
cide after his sweetheart has married his
brother. As a warning it beats all ser-
mons, and the Chief Secretary allows it on
condition that children are not admitted.
The play was worked out at Buckland Park
and in Adelaide by Cyril Mackay. Fitzher-
bert, Marie Dalton, Mabel Dyson (Mrs.
Coppin) and other clever people, and the
films are drawing crowds to Wondergraph.
Matthews was author and producer.
#• * * *
The large section of Adelaide that stayed
away from “While the Billy Boils,” at the
King’s, missed a good thing. Its gentle
Robertsonian humors blend well with the
up-country atmosphere, and the melodrama
dragged in is the only weakness. Kay
Souper and lan Maclaren, Tilton and Can-
nam, are all good, but Walter Cornock stood
out from the lot. At the Tivoli. Anderson
has had the happy idea of reviving the old
Warner-Pettitt success, “Hands Across the
Sea,” and the Majestic has a good well-
balanced programme (twice a day) with the
Eurasians and the juggling Littlejohns as
its top notes.
Novelist H. G. Yv'ells, in an article telling
the U.S.A. about a visit to some of France's
big military men. breaks into parentheses:—
I had but recently had an encounter with an im-
ported colonial statesman who was being advertised,
like a soap, as the coming saviour of England....!
met something surrounded by touts, that was dully
trying to “come it” over me.... One jcould as soon
have talked with one of the statesmen at Madame
Tussaud’s.- The effect of these French commanders
upon me was quite different from my encounter with
that belated adventurer.
Now, who was this that Wells met?
AT POVERTY POINT.
THE PICTURE-CENSOR.
[For The Bulletin.]
Maoriland’s recently-appointed picture-censor in
the first seven weeks of his dreadful job examined
640,000 feet of film.
Poor wretch! His tortures ne’er shall cease —■
Oh, fate both dire and grim !
For he must view each, fresh “release”
Till death releases him!
VICTORIA. E. T.
“R.Y.S.”: It’s a rum life that of the
mummer. I met one of the profession the
other day—one • who has done notable work
on the Australian stage in various kinds of
parts, his versatility and all-round ability
being known to all playgoers —and he aston-
ished me by saying that he had been out of
work for a twelvemonth. And yet the mana-
gers, saying they are hard up for talent, are
bringing inferior artists from America by
every steamer!
“Bob D.”: Daylight Saving is giving
open-air picture-shows a rough passage, in
Victoria especially. During December, Jan-
uary and February it only starts to get
dark at about 8.30, and for that reason the
al-fresco picture shows at St. Kilda do not
begin until half an hour after their roofed
rivals. Darkness doesn’t really descend
until 9.30 now, so the proprietors are taced
with the alternative of closing up and pray-
ing for an early winter, or showing only
half a programme and chopping their prices
in two. Meanwhile they do their best to
darken the earth from 8.30 to 9.30 by
descriptive profanity.
Shaw’s latest. A new piece of his, “Get-
ting Married,” was about to be produced in
N’York. He wired across to the producer,
W. Faversham, to postpone it because he
“did not wish to divide attention with the
American political situation.” Faversham
replied nastily that there was not the slight-
est fear of a collision.
Comment of the N’York Morning Herald
on the Writers’ Guild, newly formed in
Melbourne: —-
The Writers of Australia have organised and will
seek the passage of a law to inhibit the importation
of American and English books, in competition with
native talent. Can you blame thorn? What need
has a country rich in art, in literature and in
science for the literary output of other countries.
By the way, who are the Australian writers known
beyond the borders of that country ? Do you recall
any of them, or one of them? Neither do I. Per-
haps they are the talented sons of the ticket-of-leave
men who settled Australia.
Perhaps they are. And the American
dramatic writer seems to know a good bit
about the police, too.
“PEG O’ MY HEART.” AT SYDNEY
PALACE
Solicitor Tlawkes (Ernest Ruston) reading
the rich uncle’s will to Cecil Brooking
and Doris Gilliam.
Beaumont Smith is the latest movie pro-
ducer. The young Australian dramatist
has hidden himself away in the foothills of
Adelaide, where he intends to break the ice
with a smart Australian comedy acted by
Australians. Smith opines that the light
in and around Adelaide is better than in any
other part of the Commonwealth for filming
purposes, and greets Daylight Saving
with three beers. Most of the parts in the
new comedies are being played by the mem-
bers of the “While the Billy Boils” Com-
pany.
“E.T.” : As “II.O.” says (B. 28/12/Tti),
the forgiveness extended to sinners in melo-
drama is a beautiful and touching thing. I
was very much affected when the aged father
of the heroine turned to the villain, who
had committed most of the crimes in the
Decalogue, and thus addressed him: “Wil-
liam Montmorency, there is no doubt you
did betray my daughter. But there, there —
in God’s good time you will come to the
gallows, and perhaps it w T as all for the
best!”
“Jay Kay”-: After all, “Damaged Goods”
does not go to Adelaide yet awhile. So the
Theatre Royal, which was to have sheltered
the concoction, is nude. It has nothing otf,
“Up Stage” : Now that tire stage-technique
cyclone has blown over, a few facts may
help “Private Boxer’s” claim that stage
craft is somewhat necessary to “balance”
the local drama into a playable groove. An
authority like Charles Froliman declared
that not 1. per cent, of accepted MSS. were
produced as written. Charles Klein had
many failures until he became a stock actor ;
then having acquired some knowledge of
the craft he wrote “The Lion and the
Mouse,” “Third Degree,” “Gamblers,” etc.
Bayard Yeiller, author of “Within the Law,”
was a press agent, married to an actress.
Eugene Walter, “Paid in Full,” was a press-
man ; his wife a well-known star. Ganthony
hawked “A Message from Mars” around
for two years until Charles Ilawtrey saw
the idea and got him to rewrite it. Pinero
was an actor before he settled down to play-
writing. Hartley Manners, “Peg o’ My
Heart,” dropped the grease-paint years ago,
and so far hasn’t known failure. Old
stagers affirm the success of “Silver King”
was due to Barrett, who straightened out a
tangled script and stage-techniqued it into
the money-maker. Plays that count from
the box-office point of view are nearly all re-
plete with stage craft.
“E.T.” : Letty Lind, the ex-Gaiety dancer,
well-remembered in these parts as a member
of the burlesque troupe headed by Nellie
Farren and Fred Leslie, has taken to play-
writing. In collaboration with Major Row-
land Gibson, she is responsible for a piece
which the all-pervasive Grossmith and Lauril-
lard have acquired. It is a Chinese sub-
ject ; title, “The Dragon and the Throne.”
George Grossmith, by the way, is Letty’s
brother-in-law; he married sister Adelaide
Aster, who also wak at one time proud to
be known as a Gaiety girl.
A recent revival of “Silver King” at Mel-
bourne Royal was accountable for an
astounding piece of misinformation in the
Argus :
There are four melodramas amongst the huge
avalanche that has flooded the stage during the last
quarter of a century which are always sure of an
audience by their legitimate appeal to our loyal and
common humanity, and one of them is “The Silver
King,” which was produced on Saturday night to a
full house at the Theatre Royal. The other three
pieces are “Our Boys,” “Struck Oil” and “East
Lynne.”
None of those plays was avalanched on the
flooded stage in the last quarter of a cen-
tury. “East Lynne” in melodrama is about
sf) years old, “Silver King” is 35, and
“Struck Oil” and the almost-forgotten “Our
Boys” are a little over 40. Moreover, the
charge of “melodrama” levelled at the last-
named play is a reckless accusation. H.
J. Byron’s “Our Boys” was a farcical senti-
mental comedy, in which the plot was sub-
servient to the dialogue, and the central
character was a retired butterman whose
errors of speech became the popular jokes of
the period.
“Midchannel”: “Ho” (B. 28/12/T6) is
anxious to know what sort of mole I am.
I regret I can’t supply the information.
When I said (B. 7/12/T6) that “we haven’t
had a single play whose scenes have been
laid in Sydney or Melbourne,” I meant the
genuine artistic play, not the distorted
attempts and caricatures that —with _an ex-
ception or two —make up the long list fur-
nished by him. I include “The Waybaeks,”
“On Our Selection.” etc., in the charge. The
fact that any of them have made money for
their authors is immaterial.
“0.K.” : One of the most interesting pro-
ductions of the Incorporated Stage Society
(London) last year was “The Toy Cart.” a
free adaptation of an Indian work. Only
two members of the co. were colored persons.
Two others —Arthur Wontner and Rose
Edouin—were well known to Australia, and
they played principal parts in the sombre
proceedings. Rose Edouin (Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis) is still a recognised leader of the
“old legitimate” school in Britain, and gets
great notices for her occasional “creations”
of strong parts where age and artistry are
equally essential to realism.
A yarn is going the rounds about a leading
lady who refused to attend rehearsal, on the
ground that she had played the part so often.
It recalls the similar trouble of one of the big
managers in New York. “She won’t come
to rehearsal, eh? Umph ! She’s very pretty
and. of course But wait till the
wrinkles come!”
“Jean S.”: According to an article in
Melbourne Argus, the J.C.W. wardrobe
mistress in Sydney is a Mrs. Grundy. It
seems incredible.
“8.D.”: An enterprising Australian lias
cornered about 30 thousand ibis on one of
the Vic. rivers on which his selection fronts.
The birds are breeding on a string of islands
in the centre of the stream, and when he
spotted them it dawned on him that a mov-
ing picture might be interesting. He went
to Melbourne and demanded £lOO for the film
rights, but couldn’t get even a fiver when
he came down to that. The picture firm
declared that it would send one of its own
men to get a negative for nothing. He
disappeared wrathfully on the first train
home, and the camera man who followed
three days later discovered that the cocky
had secured an option over every floatable
craft for 10 miles on either side of the
birds. Beyond the 10-mile limit the stream
was too shallow for a boat to pass. The
movie man came back disappointed, and the
cocky made a little pile by taking Christmas
visitors out to the island to see the flock.
“Nulla Nulla”: “Floater” (B. 4/1/T7),
when he drew attention to “Bob D.’s” in-
complete list of Australian movie stars
(7/12/TO), failed to mention Enid Bennett,
who has lately been acquired by Thos. H.
Ince, of the Triangle; also .7. P. McGowan,
actor-director of the Signal, and husband
of Helen Holmes. “Bob D.” included the
names of Arthur Shirley and Dorothy
Bernard. The former was born in England
and came here at a very early age. The
latter was born in a little South American
town where her father was acting. If
Arthur Shirley was counted an Australian
why not count House Peters, who also came
here as a boy and left as a man?
"Stargazer”: The cinematograph having
made plain spectacle on the stage look kke
three half-pence, the theatre seeks to appeal
to the human eye more and more through
color. Presently some enterprising scientist
will perfect color stuff for the screen, and
then the theatre may have recourse to the
final expedient of appealing to man through
his brains. Two big shows in Melbourne
just now, the pantomime and the Follies, are
color-schemes for tripping up the people’s
nimble shillings, so far as they are anything
at all. The panto, is merely an extravagant
smudge of futuristic embellishment and a
fantastic dress-parade; its humor is crude
and useless, and there is not a single good
voice among the principals. Of the “Follies”
much the same may be said —it is expens-
ively and quaintly arranged, there is a Jap-
anese prodigality of color, and things go with
such verve that you are almost persuaded
the incidents are really great events. But it
is all sawdust, and only differs from the
popular German fare in the fact that it is
exquisitely-tinted sawdust.
“Glen H.”: General Smith-Dorrien’s cru-
sade in favor of more clothes for revues is
likely to lead him into the courts. Object-
ing to some animadversions on the Alham-
bra revue, “The Bing Boys Are Here,”
Oswald Stoll has fired a writ for libel at the
warrior.
...... ..
Australia gets two unsolicited testimoma
from former visitors. London Strand asked
a dozen comedians to say where, in the
British Isles they have found the sense of
. . T • .. ln rr.:„r 1 lvoUrc. London
humor keenest. Little Tich backs London
("West End) against the rest of t w ’
but then gets outside the ropes to ac • . ‘
to London 1 should say Australia. The Aus-
tralians, in my experience, are exceedingly
quick at seeing a joke.” And G. P. Huntley,
ftei . plac i ng Glasgow 1, Manchester 2, simi-
j j 1 s out of his way to say: “Outside
th e United Kingdom, throughout the world
ag j haye travelled it/ I think I found South
Austra ii a the keenest in enjoying humor. No
one could wigb for more responsive audiences
than thqge j had in S .A.”
t, -
With the New Year the N. S. Males Police
Courts began a new system in regait '
minor offences. Hitherto the casual dru H
who wanted to get home or away o is
work had to employ a solicitor to appeal
for him and plead guilty . It was a good
businegg for the sha rks, but a poor one for
thft afflicted , Now if a person likes to leave
b Mnd him at the gtation the amoU nt of his
fi there will be n 0 occasion for him to
£ an appearance in court, even by proxy.
A 1 in the case of minor offences, such as
b he(J of by _i aW s, etc., the “six shillings
cogtg „ which is the most annoying part of
moBt judg . ments> will be cut ou t. Instead
q f a summons being issued, offenders will be
notified that their attendance is required
up(m a certain day , and by attending they
will save six shillings. If they do not
attend, however, a summons will be issued,
It looks almost as if the Law is getting an
attack of sense.
gome of Adelaide’s best-known legal names
are gcdng be geen on B ie same brass plate,
Igbister> K .C., has lost by death his junior
partner, Pendlebury. C. W. Hayward and
\y \ Magarey have lost their senior part-
ner, now Chief Justice Murray. So the
Iv.C. moves over into the vacant chambers,
and the firm becomes Isbister, Hayward and
Magarey.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
MAGNESIA FOR ACID STOMACHS.
TAKE A LITTLE IN WATER AFTER
EVERY MEAL.
Never mind the old-fashioned advice .to
try this or that remedy for your indigestion
or dyspepsia. Be guided by physicians and
specialists who have devoted years of study
to these troubles, and have learned what it
is that causes flushed face after meals, heart-
burn, flatulence, etc. They know that in
nine cases out of ten these symptoms indicate
acid in the stomach and food fermentation,
and so, instead of prescribing drugs or arti-
ficial digestants, they recommend the use of
half a teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia in
a little water after meals. This neutralises
the harmful acid instantly and also prevents
all possibility of food fermenting in the
stomach. This bisurated, magnesia is of
greater value than drugs or medicines, for
it attacks the root cause of the trouble,
whereas drugs merely deaden the nerves and
disguise the symptoms. The genuine bisu-
rated magnesia can easily be obtained from
high-class chemists everywhere, but care
should be taken not to use the citrates,
oxides and sulphates, as well as crude mix-
tures of bismuth and magnesia. Some of
these are very similar in name to bisurated
magnesia, and are apt to confuse the unin-
formed, hence the importance of asking the
chemist very distinctly for bisurated mag-
nesia.— Advt.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon 2/6
a la carte luncheon, from 1/6
Table d’hote dinner 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Ite.Ms During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
SOCIETY
“Vagabond III.”: I came from the Far
Back of the Never Never to Townsville and
after passing three different doctors in Cam-
ooweal, Townsville and Brisbane I was made
a full-blown sodger, and after inoculation
and vaccination I was within two days of
going to have a bit of the sausage nation
when I was chucked out for being over the
age limit. Well, perhaps I am, but my dad
has been fighting just about since the war
commenced and is fighting in France to-day.
Some of the vets in Queensland are great
guessers of age. It took them 90 days to
guess my age, and then the nearest guess
was 11 years out —just because I rubbed 'my
eocoanut with a flourbag. You see, I
helped to dip a sergeant-major in the horse-
trough. He was dirty and wanted a bath.
He would sooner have had it in beer,
but the horse-trough was nearer. Dad never
did any of those naughty things, and that is
the reason he is fighting in the trenches to-
day and I’m too old. Is that a square-dinkum
go for a poor back-blocker? It isn’t what
we call a dinkum go outside. So I’m put-
ting a roll in bluey to tramp straight back to
the Never Never, where I can go and dig
yams and live in peace. If another war
breaks out they need not send me any of
their cards to fill in. They can send for
daddy. He’s the youngest.
UNSATISFYING.
H E: “What are you going to order?"
SHE: “Really, I don’t know; a menu gener-
ally reminds me of a number of things I
don’t want."
“B.B.” : It’s right about the casual Aus-
tralian. He exists. Last week, at Bunbury
(W.A.),a cat fell overboard from a steamer
and forgot to leave its address. This worried
one of the coal-trimmers, and three days
later he decided that the mystery would have
to be cleared up. So he gave notice of his
intention: “I’m going after that cat, and
not all the sharks in the Indian Ocean will
stop me.” He evidently thought that puss
was at the bottom, for that’s where he went
looking for her.
“C.P.”: Apropos the early kick against
“crucifixion” in the Australian army, this
is from my New Guinea diary (3/10/’l4) :
Major made an. ass of himself to-day. He
had occasion to deal with two men caught looting,
and in passing sentence of 28 days’ gaol included a
couple of days’ Field Punishment. We have no guns
here to chain the men to, so the Major gave orders
for the erection of chains in the main street and for
the men to be fastened there to-morrow. The rank
and file thought that to have white men, especially
soldiers, chained up in a black man’s country, with
Germans and natives to jeer at them, was over the
odds, so we kicked and told the color-sergeant that
if the two men were chained up we would hand in
our rifles and demand arrest in a body. The Naval
Reserves are with us. Color-sergeant has gone up to
tell the O.C.
There was no chaining up.
* * * »
“Melaleuca”: Concerning “crucifixion.”
Even the French Foreign Legion —Legion
Etrangerc —has abolished the equivalent of
this barbaric punishment. General de
Negrier wiped it out as unbecoming a regi-
ment of gentlemen. It is still inflicted, how-
ever, in the unhappy Bats. d’Aff., the com-
panies recruited for service in Algeria from
Frenchmen who have been convicted before
their time came to do their military service.
A man may be sent to the Bats. d’Aff. if he
has received a sentence of more than three
months’ imprisonment, and in France a
youth may be sentenced to three months or
more for insulting a gendarme. The officers
of these disciplinary companies are picked
for their severity. You’ll get details in Yere
Shortt’s novel of the Legion, “Lost Sheep.’
“A.H.R.”: A week-old recruit had cold
tea served out to him one morning lately.
He raised such a row that the sergeant and
the cook rolled up. “Look ’ere!” he said,
“this blanky tea is cold. How do you ex-
pect a chap to drink that stuff? Put your
blanky finger in it and feel.” “Oh, there’s
no need for me to put my finger in it, ole
sport,” said the cook. “I know the blanky
tea is cold. It’s been waiting for you for
two and a half years !”
The Argus (5/1/T7) has at last recog-
nised that the weariness of the Defence
Department deserves special recognition :
Colonel (honorary surgeon-general) Sir W. D. C.
Williams, K.C.M.G., C. 8., of the Australian forces,
has been placed on the tired list, with per-
mission to wear the prescribed uniform.
Judgin'” by performances, pretty well every-
body in the Pay Office, at any rate, is
entitled to the “prescribed uniform,” what-
ever it may be.
“Wart”: A case of “Damaged
Goods” within my personal knowledge.
X, aged 15, in the absence of any
instructions from teachers or parents,
was initiated into the mysteries of
sex by a servant girl, and infected with
syphilis. His father, ashamed to take
him to the family doctor, had him
treated by a quack, who worked a
“cure” in six months. At 24 X was
married. At 34 he was the father of
five children. When the youngest
child was 12 months old X began to
get what the doctor described as “nerve
troubles” and was ordered a rest at
the seaside. After a fortnight he
came back to town with a rash, and
the doctor treated it for erysipelas.
Cured of the rash, he found every
scratch on his skin would fester, and
several little ulcers formed in his
mouth and throat. As soon as the
doctor heard of the last trouble he
asked, “Did you ever have syphilis?”
“About 20 years ago,” said X. “Um!
The secondary stage. It may invade
any organ or tissue, or take the form
of almost any disease known. I am
going to give you a severe treatment
for at least a year, and hope to avert
the third stage.” “But, Doctor, how
about my wife and children?” “We
can only hope for the best and watch
them closely for symptoms; mean-
while” Meanwhile X is having a
foretaste of Hell, and he sees in every
scratch or pimple on the wife and
children the first symptoms of the
disease.
Several churches, with a valorous parson
leading, have established good records for
enlistment; but few have done better than
the little Methodist chapel at Dithgow, the
synagogue wherein Joe Cook was a local
.preacher in the days when the Labor party
was coming out of the shell. Its pastor,
R. H. Pettendrigh, put on khaki early enough
to die at Gallipoli as a corporal; and when,
recently, his widow unveiled the roll of honor
in the church, the names of 89 of the mem-
bers of the congregation were upon it. Of
those II have followed their leader into the
shadows.
WHEN TIE KNEW THEM BETTER.
FRIEND OF THE FAMILY: “Oh, these are the darling twins! What are they named?"
MAID: “Well, they was christened Mary and Ethel, but their father calls ’em May and
Dismay!"
“Chevron” : The dogs that have their day
at Duntroon are in a class by themselves.
They have no time for civilians, but would
risk their lives for a uniform. Any newcomer
who is in doubt as to the road to a small
store near the officers’ training-school has
his difficulty settled by a four-footed guide
whom no civvy can lure from his lair under
the store’s floor-boards. But let a uniform
heave in sight, the pup does everything but
present arms, and rushes out to escort the
soldier to the door. The three dogs, how-
ever, whose names
will be oftenest re-
called in distant
bivouacs are (or
werel Platooney,
Squadrille and Comp
(short for “Company”
—and good company
he tried to be —and
died to be). When a
recent “finished” de-
tachment left the
school to return to
their several States,
the dogs followed
them 24 miles to Can-
berra. Here the lads
entrained for Quean-
beyan, seven miles
. away. Whining their
protests at being left,
the pups set out in
pursuit of the train.
Comp is believed to
have fallen into the
Molonglo River from
the railway bridge
which is an undecked
structure; but Squad-
rille and Platooney
apparently leapt from
sleeper to sleeper, and
reported for duty 10
minutes after the
train reached Quean-
beyan. Platooney was
limping badly. A sol-
dier, too Australian to
desert a mate, hopped
out and took Squad-
rille into the carriage.
Platooney, heart-broken, slunk under the
train ; but another good mate shouted, "Take
both or leave both,” and the second dog
went, too.
* * * *
“Maire”: The Maoris have responded well
to the invitation to join in the Big Scrap ;
but there is still much good material unem-
ployed. Therefore Defence Minister Allen
with a military retinue lately paid an official
visit to the headquarters of the Waikato
tribe, at Mercer, to solicit the aid of “King”
Kata in stimulating recruiting among his
followers. The monarch was, unfortunately,
detained with State affairs elsewhere, but
he sent his Prime Minister to represent him
—an affable, much-tattooed and grey-whis-
kered old gentleman who limped painfully
in a pair of new boots he was wearing for
the occasion. In the resultant korero Allen
hinted that conscription was applicable to
Hori and his white brother alike —-an aspect
which the Prime Minister promised to duly
place before his Majesty. But on that
point his Majesty may put the Defence
CONVALESCING.
“By Jove, lie’s got better quickly."
“Oh, yes, he’s able note to enjoy things that
aren’t good for him."
Minister in his place ; for according to the
Treaty of Waitangi Hori can only be called
on to defend his native land. However, as
the stream of brown recruits is still flowing
well, that point is not causing the Defence
Department any extra-sleepless nights.
1917.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give me the love of friends ; the long, kind faith
That laughs the thought of unfaith out of mind ; .
That looks at me with kindly eyes and smiles,
Seeing my fault, and yet a little blind.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


%
fV
ms
i
»
tpiSßSik
Wm*
- --
..
Lake Manapouri, New Zealand.
NEW ZEALAND
Why not visit NEW
ZEALAND, the Wonderland
of the World, and enjoy
A Real Good Holiday
Special Tourist Excursion
Tickets on Railways.
Pamphlets and full informa-
tion supplied free at
New Zealand Government Offices,
SYDNEY: 14 MOORE STREET.
MELBOURNE: 59 WILLIAM ST.
The Ideal Summer Drink—
SCHWEPPES
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Made exclusively from Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice.
This Lime Juice comes from the Island of
Montserrat. It is the standard for and
superior to all other Lime Juice.
Obtainable at all Leading
Storekeepers.
See that you get Schweppes and refuse
CHEAP IMITATIONS.
I)]
*
m
1
'©
CHWEPPES
fsd
“Buccleuch” : Though rejected three times
I feel, and more strongly than ever since
the other men and their wives decided on
October 28 to let Australia back out, that
there must be much that I can do. But
for the dunderheaded military rule that no
man ineligible for infantry is any use for
anything, I would have, been “somewhere
in Egypt” nearly two years ago. A year
ago I tried to convince the chief medical offi-
cer that clerical work and other backline
jobs can be quite efficiently performed by a
man with a reasonable amount of physique
and education (I am a Melb. Uni. graduate),
even though he may possibly be unfit for
infantry. It was no use. Later in the
year, feeling I must do something, I
obtained a place on the field staff of the
Y.M.C.A., but that work faded away as a
result of the general closing of camps two
months ago. Meanwhile I had again hopes
of A.I.F. work, nourished by an A.M.C.
major at the October examination, but shat-
tered five weeks later. At present my only
hope, so far as I can see, is to look for
some way of earning a passage to Britain,
where at any rate most of the population
Know there is a war on, and that a man
should be used for what he can do rather
than spurned and discouraged because of
what he cannot. If there 1 is any way in
which I can make myself acceptable for any
corner at all in the greatest work of our
time, I hope I may look for some guidance
through The Bulletin.
From an Anzac officer in England :
English officers complain that our men do not
salute, and make nasty remarks about our ideas of
discipline. Yet I know that I get three salutes
from Australians for every two from an' equal
number of Tommies. There are two reasons for the
English officers’ complaints: (1) Our men look for
rank badges on shoulders and miss the cuffs; (2)
English officers are very slack in acknowledging
salutes. Many seem to think that a nod or any
old wave of the flipper is sufficient. In Australia
we are taught to respond rather more smartly than
we receive, but here, on the other side, the compli-
ment is often ignored, and our men only require to
be turned down a couple of times to give the next
English officer the glassy eye. I have myself pulled
up English subalterns on two occasions and made
them salute privates whom they had ignored. Aus-
tralians may not be more popular with those two
gentlemen, but they may see that there are two sides
to the complaints.
NO ILLWILL TOWARDS HENRY.
SHE (after the quarrel): “I suppose you
wish I’d married Harry Brown now.”
HE: “Oh, no! Harry has always been
pretty decent to me."
From the desert patrol:—
We have seen all the Bedouin farming operations.
The sowing is done mostly by women and children,
who follow a wonderful wooden contrivance, a kind
of plough-harrow which just scrapes the surface soil.
The women carry earthenware bowls on their heads
and look picturesque enough as they listlessly scatter
the grain behind the squeaking plough, drawn
always by a broken-winded, sorrv-looking camel,
driven by a shabby but very dignified patriarchal
person white of beard and of turban. His age
makes it quite all right for women of all ages to
go unveiled before him. The threshing is done by
means of a circular train of camels, five old spirit-
less crocks, who groan and grunt with disgust as,
tied head to tail, they tread out the grain on the
primitive threshing floors. The reaping is done with
a curved, long knife, or the stalks are stripped by
hand. The winnowing is a pretty sight. Women
and girls stand in the middle of piles -of grain,
which they lift in earthenware bowls, and by a
slcight-of-hand trick many . thousands of years old,
send it flying upward and outward. As most of
them are graceful they look fine in the centre of
the swirling golden cascades. The fact is we are
living through a series of living pictures taken
from a well-illuminated Family Bible. On the
whole, these lady agriculturists are not badly
treated, no one but the Sheikh having the right to
punish them in any way; but they are a solemn,
proud and somewhat disdainful lot, and no Ginger
Mick would care to “word” them. To see them
setting off to the wells at sundown you would
reckon from their airs that they were all Zenobias
or uncrowned Queens of Sheba. They’re not, but
they have glorious eyes and superb figures, and
their domestic habits might well be copied by some
of our European women. They are ideal and most
devoted mothers, and (seemingly) most attentive
wives. True, I write merely as a looker-on, and
lookers-on at matrimony are frequently deceived.
* * *
Another deliciously casual Australian—
living on the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.)
to his mother :
I’ve got a tiptop milking herd now, and I reckon
on scoring some prizes for milk yield from a little
Jersey. I notice you seem surprised to hear that I
am married. I meant to tell you before, but I
forgot. Two of the kids are boys. Don’t forget
to ask about that separator, and let me know.
Dan had received an unexpected letter
from Bill, and wrote in reply: “You can
guess what a surprise it was to hear from
~..n „ rao ,„ . ~
yon. Six weeks ago your name was in the
casualty lists here, among the killed.” In
answer to this Dan has just been favored
with another letter from Bill, who is some-
where in France. He wrote: “About
my death, I think there must be some mis-
take—they haven’t stopped my pav !”
‘A agabond” : So far I have not seen any
fair description of the “tanks” or “pepper-
pots,” as I’ve heard them rather neatly
nicknamed. The point that most of the
imaginative artists have fallen down and
sprained their pictures on is the caterpillar-
feet arrangement. This does not, as they all
seem to suppose, revolve under cover, and
is not a series of tramping feet. It is an
endless band which grinds round outside each
of the armored fort walls. The band travels
backward on the horizontal when the mon-
ster moves on level ground, turns up and
forward at an acute angle, goes forward on a
line parallel to the ground-floor portion,
turns backward parallel to the rear line,
turns downstairs and backward parallel
to the rear line. This is a some-
what cumbersome description and it
may be clearer if I say that, looked
at sideways, the endless band is roughly
diamond-shaped, with one of its sides on
the ground. The fort part of the body has
a round-shaped front with a couple of loop-
holes like eyes. Amidships on each side is
a bulge like a rounded bow-window, each
bulge having a gun poking out for’ard and
another aft, so as to rake any boarding party
closing in on bow or stern quarter. Although
the ’bus isn’t shaped anything like a tor-
toise,. its movements are most remarkably like
that insect’s. To see him crawling steadily
along over ground churned into one ragged
frazzle of big and little holes by shells is
most amusing, and it’s little wonder the
troops yelled with delighted laughter at him.
He looks absurdly life-like nosing and clawing
at a trench parapet till his fore-feet get a
grip, heaving himself ponderously up until
his fore-eud tips over and he cautiously
crawls down the other side with his hind feet
waving in the air, lurching sideways into
deep holes, with one side grinding along the
top edge and the other down below, taking
the smaller holes and narrow trenches in his
stride, wheeling heavily and lumbering along
a trench edge and squirting sudden death
down into it. Yes, he’s a funny beast, the
funniest I’ve seen in this war. And yet the
Hun doesn’t see a single gleam of humor in
him.
* * * *
“Croce di Malta” : Much twaddle has been
printed lately about the Maltese. S. M.
Hekald, for instance, says they are of
Phoenician origin. There certainly are
Phoenician (Carthaginian) antiquities in
Malta, also some little Carthaginian blood,
just as there are Greek, Roman, Spanish
and Slavic infusions; but the staple of the
population is an Italo-Arabic compound.
More than half the language is modified
Arabic; the rest is corrupt Italian, with a
flavoring of Spanish. The local peerage—
of Austrian, Spanish, Genoese and Papal
creation—is fully recognised by Britain, and
the “premier noble,” Baroness Diar-il-Bniet
(Arabic), officially attended the coronation
of Edward VII. The present Governor of
N. S. Wales is Conte della Catena in the
Maltese peerage. Finally, the Maltese
people—writer has lived amongst them —
are good-looking, good-humored, good
workers and good British subjects. Surely
that fills the bill.
* * * *
“T. Messmate” : The other night we were
talking to a couple of girls at the pub, and
got on to war-time fashions and reforms.
Someone mentioned the Daylight Saving Bill ;
somebody else mentioned something else. In
the middle of the talk the Son of the House
came out and caught the trend thereof. '
“Wot’s this I seen in the paper the other
day,” he butted in, “about a bloke getting
married by proximity?”
* * * *
“Three Stripes”: Owing to the airs which
it gives itself, the V.A.D. is not excessively
popular with the Australian army nurses'
in England; and the irritation has been
increased by the latest order, which forbids
the nurses to be seen abroad with Austra-
lian privates in uniform. The restriction
does not apply to the Voluntary Aid dam-
sels ; it is aimed only at the nurses, who,
being amenable, to military discipline, can-
make no effective protest against a ukase
which debars them from associating with
their own brothers if these latter are mere
privates with their khaki on. More or less
apropos, a British officah lately found among
the guests at an Australian hostess’s dinner
party one of these same dreadful privates.
Though it was the hostess’s brother, and
though the dinner was given in his honor,
the belted snob explained that if the private
remained, he, the officah and gentleman,
must retire. The officah and gentleman
retired.
A WOMAN OF LETTERS.
“Miss Flighty made all her money in let-
ters."
“She doesn't look literary."
“She isn’t —she won a breach-of-promise suit
with them."
“The Old Soldier”: “Blighty” is «n
Indian corruption of the Arabic “WilayaHe,”
meaning “foreign” ; but as there, is no “w”
in Sanskrit or any of its derivatives, natives
of India change that sound into “b,” just as
Frenchmen turn it into “v.” Thus “Wil-
ayatee” becomes “Bilayatee.” As Tommy
came from a “Bilayatee” part, he naturally
assumed that “Blighty” was Hindustani for
Whitechapel or thereabouts.
EQUAL SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Our claims to equality of service,” concluded the
Bishop, “are a damnable lie. We who cannot fight
shoulder to shoulder with the men in the trenches
should endeavor to come into touch with them
through our supplication to God.”
“tt hat did you do?” the battered soldier said.
“What sacrifice was yours when murder wallowed
In seas of pain amid the mangled dead,
And we the faint, far light of honor followed ?”
His arm hung limply at his twisted side,
Six medals on his shabby tunic glittered.
“Where were you when the doors of Hell were wide,
And all the ways with agonies were littered ?”
The saint looked upward with a _holy smirk.
“Scorn not,” he said, “the humble tasks of
wowsers.
The equal sacrifice we did not shirk.
Behold the dread condition of my trousers!”
He waved six pairs of ragged pants on high.
“These deeds were done to serve and save the
nation.
I could not fight—l do not like to die.
/ wore them out in earnest supplication !”
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.
EPHEMERA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was a rorty young pierrot,
In panniers you were a vision.
What was your name I may not know,
But we were born in realms Elysian
Where music raved with fine emotion,
And not one serious, worldly notion
Possessed the mad inhabitants,
Born but to laugh, and love, and dance.
What were we ere your lips touched mine
I know not, and it doesn’t matter.
Existence stretched for us from nine
Till five next morn, ’mid merry clatter,
In iridescent colors shining 1 ,
With hands, and often lips, entwining.
Within those hours we had our day,
Lived, laughed, and loved, and passed
away!
I speak of you and I, dear, yet
It was not I but some blessed creature
That left me thoughts I can’t forget
And not another mutual feature.
W T hat came of you, my day-fly tender —
A glorious death in all your splendor?
Far better than my wretched fate,
Reverted to the larva state!
VICTOBIA.
SILAS SNELL.


GULLIVER HUGHES IN THE GIANT’S BED.


THE PACIFIC PRESIDENT.
BULL: “Mean to say you attach the same weight to both cases? Haven’t the German outrages made your blood boil?”
WILSON: “Brother, if I HAD any blood, it would NEVER boil.”


Public Notice.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Re-
quired from Persons, etc., Insuring
with any Insurance Company Not
Registered in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the. Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the Fire
Brigades Amendment Act. 1910.
ALL persons, firms, companies and asso-
ciations, being owners, trustees or
/gents for any goods or property within
the Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act 1900
and the Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910
have been applied, in respect of which
premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State, are
hereby notified that they are -required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them in
respect of the said property to such insur-
ance companies during the year 1916.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1917, subject to a penalty not exceeding £1
per day for every day of default.
NOTE. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums piopeily chaige-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was. in any lire District
under the said Acts.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
11. M. WEBB. Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Ist December, 1916.
9
©
Ssxv
■M
'tm
gfi
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&
WtiITTV
MAKERS
s
SHE
V'-.Vc
'l
m
m
m
rnmmm
V»
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Irvine Coulter, one of the oldest inhabi-
tants of Ballarat, has now two D.S.O.’s in
the family. It is a remarkable crowd alto-
gether. Major Leslie Coulter was given a
gold medal by the directors of the Mount
Lyell mine for bravery in rescue work when
the great disaster occurred there some years
ago. When the Kaiser let his barbarians
loose in Europe Leslie helped to organise an
Engineers and Miners’ Corps at Mount Lyell
for service at the Front, and was awarded
his D.S.O. some months ago. Lieut.-Col.
(then Private) Graham Coulter won the
Queen’s Medal, witli clasps, in the African
disturbance. Subsequently he became one
of the leading oarsmen and footballers of
Ballarat, and when war broke out he steered
straight for the recruiting goal. He took
part in the Landing at Gaba Tepe, remained
on the Peninsula till the evacuation, and the
latest list of D.S.O.’s contains his name.
Captain S. Coulter, the oldest of the pack,
stopped one of Kruger’s bullets at Bensburg,
and the grass is growing over his grave in
South Africa. Johnny Turk finished another
brother, Sergeant Jason Coulter, at Gal-
lipoli.
FINLAYSON,
M.H.R. (Q.),
listening to a joke.
“Spanwire” : Tom Glynn, editor of Direct
Action, who has been sentenced in Sydney
to 15 years for preaching the wrong brand of
politics, served in the S’African expedition
with a Victorian contingent. When the war
was over he joined the Natal Mounted
Police, served during the Bambaata dust-up,
and was suspended from duty for refusing
to shoot a Zulu hoy during a drive of the
rebel blacks. lie was imprisoned, and put
back for a court-martial for . disobeying
orders. The court-martial never eventuated,
for Miss Colenso, the Bishop’s daughter,
heard of Glynn’s case, and he was released.
He never returned to the Police, but went
up country to Jo’burg, where he got work on
the trams, became interested in the radical
movement, and was the mainspring of the
first great tramway strike. He got a spell
of gaol for that. He edited a few issues of
the Voice of Labor, which was run by
Archie Crawford, one of the deported union
leaders in 1014. Following this, he tracked
to Galway, Ireland, and then made for the
States, which he toured hobo fashion. After
a wheat-harvest in Calgary, he went down
below among the Makura’s fires and worked
back to Australia. He is a profound
admirer (what Galway man is not?) of
Robert Emmett, and could be induced in
convivial moments to give a first rate recital
of his hero’s historic speech from the dock.
“Nemo”: Amongst the shepherds who
have been decorated for work at the Front is
the Rev. Father Joseph Hearn, a -Jesuit
who used to be parish priest of Richmond
(Vic.). Some years ago there was another
soldier-priest in Richmond, Father Mclniry,
who was through the American uncivil war.
It ought not to be wondered at that Jesuits
CAPTAIN A.S.
BLACKBURN ,
V.C., of 8. At is.
and the Somme.
get into these
rows. The'soci-
ety was founded
by St. Ignatius
Loyola, who was
a soldier. And
you can tell the
Yellow Pup that
1200 F renc li
priests have
been killed in
this war, and,
begorra, the
IGtli Irish divi-
sion have' 300
"hono rs” to
their credit in
two years.
Alex. Murdock, who died lately, aged 57,
was the N. S. Wales detective who with
lioche and Rochaix kept a brotherly eye on
the King and Queen —then Duke and Duchess
of York—on their Australian pilgrimage,
lie retired in 1911, as the result of, an
argument with a motor-cycle that wasn t a
sport.
Captain R. -R. Harper, who can wear the
D.S.O. and the French War Cross nowa-
days, is a son of Dr. Andrew Harper, head
of the Presbyterian College at Sydney Uni.
When the Devil was unchained a couple ot
years ago, Harper was doing a medical
course at. Sydney, and had won his double
blue” by playing Rugby with the first 15
and rowing in the inter-’Varsity eight. He
got into khaki in time to spend five smoky
months at Gallipoli, where he was wounded
in the head. The D.S.O. and the French
decoration came to hinj for leading Ins Bill-
jims in a successful attack on a Hun trench
at Pozieres. Wounds received on that occa-
sion have sent him back to Australia while
the patching process is being completed, but
he reckons on being in the final round.
On present appearances the A.W.U.,
greatest of Australian labor organisations,
will throw W. G. Spence out of the pre-
sidency and instal F. W. Lundie. ‘Old
man” Spence practically created the A.W.U.,
and he is as good a unionist as ever he was;
but because he didn’t curse conscription, not
being required to do so by any pledge lie
had ever taken, he is led to .the scaffold.
Lundie is of a very different type—a long,
lean bushman, full of fight as a bull-ant.
lie followed Barnes, now Senator. as
A.W.U. agent in the West Darling, and has
for a good many years past been raising
Cain in Adelaide.
“TJloola” : The youngest Billzac? Perhaps
this is he. He enlisted at Sydney in July.
1915, aged 15 years and 10 months; had his
10th birthday in Liverpool camp; embarked
for Egypt Dec. 22, ’l5; had two months m
the desert between Cairo and the Canal
(“Bully beef and biscuit and a quart of
water a day,” he reported) ; arrived in
France April 3, ’l6; was at the Somme and
is now at Ypres. He went away in the
infantrv, but in the re-shuffle in Egypt was
transferred to the Pioneers. He was an
infant sft. Uin. tall when he enlisted, with
a chest measurement of 33. expanding to 35
inches. He has so far escaped wounds and
hasn’t had a day’s sickness —nor has he done
a single grumble. I am proud of him: he
is “Uloola” jun.
The 86-year-old widow of the late Francis
Peter McCabe, who died the other day, was
the eldest daughter of the wealthy pastoral
Osbornes. Her father, Henry Osborne, came
from Tyrone to N. S. Wales in the very
early ’3o’s, settled in Illawarra, raised a
family of 13, and made all his 10 sons
squatters. F. I*. McCabe was one of the
earliest surveyors in N. 8. Wales; he was on
the staff of the Theodolite-General as far
back as 3841.
The new Bishop of Ballarat, whose name
was Smith and is Gumbleton, comes with a
reputation for straightening church finance.
No doubt, his motto is “Watch and pay.
Australia has found it a lot easier to leave
the “r” in.
Add W. H. Moule, of the Victorian Dis-
trict Court, to the judges mentioned last
week who have lost sons in the war. This
judge’s boy was a lance-corporal who went
away with the first Light Horse and was
killed by a shell 'explosion in Gallipoli on
August 7, 1915.
Cecil Ilartt has got into the London
Times. Invalided to England, the Sydney
hi ack-and-whiter produced a portfolio of
humorous war drawings which, the Times
says, “show both good draughtsmanship and
humor and real power of characterisation.
We do not know,” it adds, “which is the
truer —his type of Australian or his type of
English soldier.”
Pat Fraser, who has found his way into
Massey’s bastille in Maoriland for .saying
nasty things about the Compulsory Service
Act, comes from Inverness, and owns a
tartan-plaid accent and a belief that juvenile
smoking should be prohibited and national
whitebait factories established. Fraser has
been prominent in Auckland and Waihi
labor circles, and struck trouble in the ’33
strike for saying something allegedly sedi-
tious. For a long while he has been the
organising secretary of the Social Demo-
cratic Party, and his energy has kept that
lot from taking a trip to the cemetery. Pat
has a quick tongue. Once when he was try-
ing to organise a railway construction
workers’ union in the Poverty Bay district
he was making a speech previous to taking
the names for the union, when somebody
chimed in with “Rot!” “Just wait a minute,”
said Pat. “I’m not quite ready for your
name yet. Tell me again when I’ve finished
talking.”
Master F. Radford, of Parkham (Tas.),
reckons up his years and makes the sum
101 —or 102 on March 11. When his
first cry piped around St. Pancras’, London,
the smoke was just clearing off Waterloo.
At 28 he left England in the Lord Auck-
land, which took six months or so to reach
Tasmania. After farming awhile at Exton,
he cut a track into the bush and made a
home in what is now a respectable village.
The humpy was pitched seven miles from
the nearest track, and bushrangers were his
nearest neighbors. His youngest was
killed at Gallipoli; whereupon another
promptly dropped his tools and went to ask
Abdul about it.
W. J. ROBERTS, Chairman Melbourne
Stock Exchange.
Died at 80 ex-Detective Superintendent
Joe Brown, of Vic., who shepherded King
George when he was here with Prince Albert.
Brown’s mate at the time was O’Callaghan,
who afterwards became Chief Commissioner.
“Bagot”: There is another bishop you
must add to the list of those who use the
mitre otherwise than “only on their note-
paper and their spoons.” “A. Nutter Adel-
aide” has been wearing his in public for
three years.
LOUIS EBSON, poet
and playwright, now
on his way to A merica
to try his luck.
Among the New Year honors was a Mili-
tary Cross for Captain W. C. Scurry, a
North Melbourne officer whose record is
worth having. Before he was 21 he sur-
rendered his commission in the Essendon
Rifles and enlisted in the Ttli Battalion.
He was in the thick of Gallipoli, where he
won„ the D.C.M.. mostly for inventing a
device for tiring rifles automatically. This
trick was played at the evacuation, and
deceived Abdul into believing that the
Anzacs were still in the trenches, from
which they had withdrawn an hour or two
previously. Given a commission by General
Munro and mentioned in despatches, he
was transferred to the 58th Battalion, and
as a captain in the 59th won the- Military
Cross in France. He is now with one of
the Mortar Batteries.
Adelaide, which is accumulating statues
at a great rate, is to honor Flinders next.
The early navigator never set foot near the
city for whose site Light was responsible
later, but he sailed about the Gulf, and from
Kangaroo Island gave the present name of
“Mount Loftv” to the highest point in the
range just behind where Adelaide now is.
Also he left at Port Lincoln a tablet, some
fragments of which remain in the Adelaide
Museum, to commemorate the drowning of
some of his crew. Premier Crawford
Vaughan, at the recent annual commem.
lunch, said he thought the State’s obligation
to Flinders was even greater than that to
Light, and his Government will give a pedes-
tal and other help if a statue can be financed
by the usual enthusiasts.
“Albatross”: The cable tells us that
Archgaiters Riley, of Perth, was aboard
the transport Ivernia which was torpedoed
in the Mediterranean last week. I most
respectfully suggest that Dr. Riley be re-
quested to do his archbishing in some super-
drought country where a small boy could not
find enough water to float a paper boat in.
So far his Grace’s Jonah record runs this
way:—-
(1) On his first trip across the Atlantic the ship
caught fire. He told file this himself.
(2) He was a passenger on the small steamer
Macgreg'or When she broke her tail-shaft, and a dis-
tress rocket recurved and killed one of the seamen.
Burns, Philp can vouch for this.
(3) He was a passenger on the Rob Roy in one
of the worst ‘storms experienced between Albany!
and Esperance. I was second mate.
(4) He £ was a passenger on the Bullarra when
she struck a rock off the Nor’-West coast of Aus-
tralia. I was second mate.
(5) Now the Ivernia !
I’m glad to hear my old friend, is safe ; but,
in view of his “hoodoo,” would it not be a
fair thing if the authorities put him some-
where where other people can be reasonably
safe?
A PRIVATE GRIEVANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A new order forbids Australian nurses to be
seen abroad with Australian privates.”— ‘•Phyllis,”
in The British Australasian (London).
Our Billjim takes his walks abroad
Beside his latest mate,
And were his cobber twice a lord
He would not change his gait ;
He strolls around with any she
Who does not seem averse,
Save one —old Billjim is not free
To walk abroad with Nurse.
In hospital he is allowed
To call the lady “Sis,”
And sometimes she is not too proud
To let him snatch a kiss.
She answers if he rings the bell
Whilst he is bad, or worse;
But when the patient’s getting well
He may not walk with Nurse.
Perchance she feeds him with a spoon
Whilst he is in her care ;
She brings his cup of tea at noon
And combs his towzled hair ;
But when good Billjim, fat and strong,
With money in his purse,
Feeds girlie at a restaurant
She must not be the Nurse.
VICTORIA.
O. K.
JONAH, A.B.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A dirty man and he stank of tar,
He came from Hell or the Evil Star ;
I-Ie cursed the ship and he damned the crew,
And blasphemed over the rum he drew.
He spat on the pig and he spat on me;
“To hell,” he said, “with the rotten sea,
For doomed we are, we’re snugging down
For Port o’ Hell ’stead of Sydney town.”
So followin’ Scripture’s law, d’ye see,
As a salt full o’ Christian piety,
. F kicked at his hands one night in a gale
And sent him back to his whale!
N'.S.W.
JOHN BARR.


IMI twlffl
*
m
m mm f mm
Hi?
Hi
Wm
Sssws
'm.
Wm
HI
liiift
? »i
is
m
wm
w-
wWM.
W/sfy
■m
WM
!
yW,
m
tm
.
W/u
wm.
Y/A
wm
St
Y/A
m
m
m.
wm
i
m,
M
m
Jss#|j
WM
m
m
m
'KHMAW; WEIGHTS);*
mm.
r f
:.:
fill
One-Before / go in
and
One-Ythen Icome out
THERE’S no Sweeter Tobacco
comes from Virginia, and no
better brand than the “ THREE
CASTLES.”
Thackeray’s " The Virginians ”
IN PACKETS AND FLAT TINS
ALSO IN ROUND AIRTIGHT TINS OF 50
The FAMOUS
BRAND of
w. d, * h. o.
WILLS


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. ~ Send for Catalogue. 1]
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON —3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE— Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ADAMAX ROOFING SAVES UPKEEP and EXPENSE.
It is made to resist the elements —and is not affected by wind, rain, heat or cold,
gases, acids or chemical fumes. ’
The long-fibred Wool Felt is thoroughly saturated with pure hvdro-carbon. This makes ADAMAX
HOOPING Are resisting. ADAMAX ROOFING will _not rust or pinhole, like galvanised iron.
Costs less to buy—less for freight—is easier handled. It does not crack, chip, blow up or burl. It
is cooler than Iron in Summer and warmer in Winter.
It is cheaper than Iron, and the railage is considerably less.
Send for particulars and prices from
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO HD., Sydney. Melb urne. Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Federal Treasurer is asking the co-
operation of employers and employees to
make the new War Loan a success. Circu-
lars have been issued to each section, as well
as to the general public. To these last the
Treasurer says
Patriotism and self-interest alike demand that
we maintain the fight with all our strength. The
provision of funds is just as necessary as the pro-
vision of men, and most urgently are you appealed to
for assistance. You are asked to exercise self-denial
and to contribute as much of your funds as possible
towards the war loan. You are asked to realise
that on you depends something. To some extent at
least the proper maintenance of the fight depends
upon you. If you do not give for the purpose of
the war as much money as you can give, then you
cannot say to yourself that you have done as well
as you should have done. The terms of the loan
have been so arranged that comparatively poor per-
sons may subscribe. Those who cannot afford more
most probably could in 10 months find £lO, paying
£ 1 per month.
Employers are asked to collect instalments
from their employees, to whom the following
appeal is made :
No doubt you have yourselves pondered deeply
upon the matters at issue, but may I point out that
not only are the lives of our soldiers imperilled,
but on the result of the war depends the liberty of
every individual in the British Empire? Personal
freedom and the right to make laws relating to con-
ditions of life and employment, even employment
itself, are at stake.
On every ground of patriotism and self-interest
I ask you to enter upon a period of self-denial.
Some, of course, cannot out of wages do more than
provide for themselves and their families. There
are, however, many who can, either out of savings or
out of current wages, provide £lO or more. Please
do all that you can.
The payment of ss. per week for a period of 40
weeks will entitle the subscriber to a AVar Bond of
£lO, on which interest amounting to 7s. 6d. will
be paid on December 15, 1917, and thereafter inter-
est will be paid half-yearly at the rate of 44 per
cent, per annum, until the date of the repayment of
the loan in 1925. Your employer will, if authorised
bv vou in writing, do all that is necessary to pur-
chase for you a bond or bonds, retaining the proper
sum from your weekly wages.
There is no donbt whatever that, if we bad
a National Government, embodying the
strength of all parties, the appeal wonkl bo
more sympathetically received. But let us
remember that we do not punish Hughes or
Pearce or Cook or any other politician by
starving this loan. We punish the men at
the Front, and through them ourselves and
Civilisation.
« * * *
The National Bank of Tasmania
(Launceston, Tas.) :
AVrit-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£• £ £ £ £
Mav, 1909..8288 7 p.c.= 5587 —■ 2701 48,957
Nov., 1909..7647 7 „ „ 5654 1993 50,950
Mav, 1910..8115 7 „ „ 5654 2461 53,411
Nov., 1910..8058 7 „ „ 5654 2404 55,815
Mav, 1911..8127 7 „ „ 5587 2540 58,355
Nov., 1911..7110 7 ~ „ 5587 1523 59,878
Mav, 1912..8828 7 „ ~ 5587 1000 2241 62.119
Nov., 1912..7906 7 ~ „ 5587 . 2319 64,438
May, 1913..8656 7 ~ „ 5587 3069 67.507
Nov., 1913..8762 7 „ „ 5587 1500 1675 69,182
May, 1914..9393 7 „ „ 5587 1000 2806 71.988
Premiums on new shares. . 4321 76,309
Nov., 1914..8402 7 p.c.= 6653 1749 78,058
Mav, 1915..9219 7 ~ „ 7142 2077 80,135
Nov., 1915..8524 7 „ „ 7176 1348 81.483
Mav, 1916..9684 7 „ „ 7176 1000 1508 82,991
Nov., 1916..9102 7 „ „ 7176 1923 84,917
Business has not shrunk during the war,
whatever it may do afterwards. Notes and
bills in circulation, both small items, have
shrivelled a little; all others except bank
premises are larger, including deposits,, liquid
assets and 'advances, which are the import-
ant lines. Here are the figures as at
November, 1918, at the same date in 1916
and 10 years ago :
1906. 1913. 1916.
Free deposits .. . . £287,252 £333,765 £355,739
Fixed deposits .. .. 240,745 328,004 326,476
Other liabilities .. 76,830 26,499 18,211
Liquid assets .. .. 201,373 198,589 248,608
Advances, etc. . . . . 567,775 689,371 714.238
Premises and sundries . . 28,209 28,617 24,923
“Other liabilities” are smaller because the
bank no longer issues notes, that being now
a Commonwealth monopoly. The Common-
wealth notes which it holds are, of course,
included with the liquid assets. These assets
represent a reasonable 35 p.c. of the liabili-
ties ; but it doesn’t allow T much of a margin,
and the bank couldn’t offer any more accom-
modation to speak of on its present
resources without unduly pinching its coin,
etc. But if the National is using every
penny that can safely be used, creditors can
take comfort from the fact that there is a
very good margin of cover so far as they
are concerned. The bank owes altogether
£700,426. Deduct liquid assets, and there
remains £451,818 of debt, which is repre-
sented by non-liquid assets valued at
£739,160. There’s good, untroubled sleep
for depositors in those figures.
The Western Australian Insurance
Co. (Perth) :
Deficit.
£260
Reserves
(Including
To- Reserve for
wards Unexpired
June, Profits.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
1913. .£1,233 5 p.c. = £sof) £733 473
1914.. 215 Nil 215 68S
1915.. 20,512 6 p.c. = 3600 16,912 17,600
1916.. 27,463 6 ~ „ 3600 23,863 41,463
*Subject to remarks hereunder.
It is a fine big gamble. The co. chanced to
have for its chairman S. W. Copley, the
Westralian sporting man who knows a lot
about “consultations” and other flutters;
and soon after the war started he saw his
chance. Going to England, he plunged in
underwriting, and here is the result: —
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1914.. 3,519 770 3,429 21.8 „ 97.4 „
1915.. 52,061 17,424 16,074 33.4 „ 30.8 „
1916.. 180,716 116,763 40,118 64.6 „ 22.2 „
They are remarkable figures, How much of
them the co. is going to hold after the war
remains to be seen. The nature of the
business is pretty well indicated by the
expense rate. It consists largely of marine
underwriting and reinsurance.
The profit is “subject to remarks here-
under.” In plain words, the directors don’t
know and we don’t know how much is real
profit. It certainly all isn’t: of the total
reserves no less than £39,500 is to the credit
of the unexpired risks and contingencies
fund. Last year, for instance, allowing that
all old business was renewed, there was
£128,655 of premiums derived from new busi-
ness. This new business was no .doubt
spread over the whole year, so that, as an
average, the risk had several months to run
at the end of the co.’s year. In ordinary
circumstances it is reckoned that a co. ought
to have a reserve for unexpired risks (or
unearned premium reserve, as some call it)
equal to 40 p.c. of the year’s premiums; and
in this case that would mean £72,000. But
that seems excessive where a large part of
the business is probably in risks for single
voyages. When you take a new fire risk in
June, you almost invariably do it for 12
months, so that you have half the risk lo
run at the end of December. But with
marine insurance the risk taken in June may
expire in August. It is the same with
many of the “riot and civil commotion”
policies which were issued during the year.
Most of them didn’t run more than six
months. But while this co. doesn’t thus
perhaps need a 40 p.c. reserve, it is much
more certain that it needs some; in other
words, some of the profits shown above are
not true profits. Indeed, the management
doesn’t claim they are.
In view of the remarkable growth of busi-
ness some managements would have been
enticed into plunging into dividends much
fatter than 6 p.c. But the co. does the right
thing in keeping them at 6 p.c. until it
knows just where it is ; and it can’t know
with this very big contingent liability on
hand. Ordinarily we expect an insurance
co. to have funds equal to at least 140 p.c.
of its year’s premiums. That would be
£250.000. But the total net assets were only
£lO5 064 before paying the last dividend.
The position, therefore, needs careful nursing
—just as much in the iiiterests of share-
holders as of policy-holders; for every one
of the 240,000 shares issued carries a liability
of ss.
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and
Dairy Produce Export Co. IMaoriland) :
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1906.. 23,833 p “‘- — 10,639 30,074
1907.. 20,8101 g » 5,000 2,612 32,686
1908.. 15,071 6 p.c. = 11,02.3 3.500 548 33,234
1909.. 17,493 6 „ ~ 11,023 3,500 2,970 36,204
1910.. 45,944 | | ” ) 18,972 13,774 49,978
1911.. 21,9461 g ” gg9g| 4.613 4,135 54,113
1912.. 24,8521 g » } 4,340 7,314 61,427
19 3.. 45,412 'g ” 15,073 17,14, 78,568
Premiums on new shares . .. 28 78,596
1914.. 28,226 ] g p g'™ }- 7,335 7,687 86.283
1915.. 53,044 ]| ” pr ( p' 1,169 37,956 124,239
3 9 i 6.. 40,633 | jP' 0, 3,856 18,802 143,041
The directors of this exceedingly affluent
concern evidently think that the least said
the soonest mended; so the report is the
mere rattling of a few dry bones done as
inconspicuously as possible. Poor old John
Bull, fighting for his life, is, of course, mak-
ing most of the purchases out of which in
two years the co. has netted confessed pro-
fits almost equal to one-half of its capital;
and it appears also to have written assets
down very generously. As at November,
1915, the co.’s six or eight works were valued
at £282,328; 12 months later they stand at
only £273,234. The most amazing thing is
that, though war has so obviously poured
money into this co.’s till, and though war
profits are admittedly indefensible, the co.
paid last year hardly any more in rates and
taxes than it did in years of peace. In 1996,
following a year in which it made a profit
of only £15,074, rates and taxes absorbed
£1962. In the past year, following a profit
of £53,044, the outgo on the same account
was £4781; and no doubt rates on the
numerous new properties accounted for much
of the increase. It all amounts to a scandal,
because the money will have to be got pre-
sently, and it will then be collected not from
those who have benefited by the war, but
equally from those who have suffered bit-
terly by it.
Chiefly because the co. has been very
moderate in its dividends no matter how
fat its profits, it carries on its very large
business without leaning heavily upon the
bank. Here are the principal figures:—
1906. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities .. .. £97,920 £111,2(12 £92,421
Works and fixed assets. . 267,783 282,328 273,234
Stocks 25,010 55,145 76,212
Book debts, etc. . . 25,526 114,193 105,507
Between 1906 and 1916 the co. has got in
£25.142 of capital ; but it has reduced its
liabilities by £5499, added £131,183 to its
semi-liquid assets, and paid for all additions
to its works and fixed property —and how
much that amounts to we can’t even guess.
It certainly would be more than enough to
buy a packet of peanuts.
The Agricultural Bank of Queens-
land :
Profit Net Profit
Before Available
Paying Interest Paid for
June, Interest. to State. Reserves. Deficit.
1904.. £5Ol 3 p.c. = £417 £B4 £252
1905.. 826 3 „ „ 773 53 199
1906.. 2,476 3 „„ 2,031 445 246
1907.. 4,212 3 „ „ 3,161 1051 1,297
1908.. 4,771 3 ~ „ 3,445 1326 2,623
1909.. 5,257 3 „„ 3,851 1406 4,029
1910.. 6,253 3 „ „ 4,278 1975 6,004
1911.. 7,694 3 „„ 5,147 2547 8,551
1912.. 10,236 S',, „ 6,918 3318 11,869
1913.. 16,305 4 ~,,12,950 3355 15,224
1914.. 24,368 4 ~,,21,386 2982 18,206
1915.. 33,300 4 ~ ~28,852 4448 22,654
1916.. 46,785 4 „ ~40,092 6693 29,347
That is, if everything turns out all right.
But the balance-sheet shows among the
assets “Interest due by borrowers, £24,407,”
as against £11.012 two years previously;
and it looks as though a good deal of this
may have to be written off. The managing
director explains:—
The considerable amount of interest in arrears is
to a large extent caused through clients of the bank
having enlisted, and in consequence we' have not
pressed for the payment thereof.
In various respects the bank isn’t run on
strict commercial lines. For instance, though
the bank sometimes has to foreclose, it puts
the security into cold storage, and “gives
clients an opportunity to redeem their hold-
ings should their circumstances improve. It
is not the policy of the bank to realise unless
the position is hopeless.” Probably because
the bank wasn’t to be run on commercial
lines it wasn’t thought necessary to organise
it on commercial lines. Hence —
In our last report we suggested that either the
accountant of the Lands Department have full con-
trol or that the Bank do so, as under the present
arrangement duplication of work exists. ... Divided
control of the accounts has been far from satisfactory
so far as the Bank is concerned.
It is obvious that the whole thing wants
reorganising. And while they are about it
they had better turn it into a business con-
cern pure and simple. They will do much
more good to the farmer that way. If the
bank gives charitable assistance it can do
it only at the expense of the other clients;
and most of them are young stragglers who
are not in a position to do much helping just
yet.
From time to time various improvements
have already been made in the constitution
and practice of the bank, with the result
that a very much larger number of settlers
have of recent years consented to take
assistance. This shows various movements:
Advances Advances Re- Expenses
Out- paid dur- Working p.c. of
standing. ing Year. Expenses. Advances.
1905.. £38,417 £3ll £687 £ll5 9
1906.. 94,268 3,229 1043 1 2 0
1907.. 112,216 12.908 1243 1 2 2
1908.. 119,344 16,716 1199 1 0 1
1909.. 136,947 16,184 1388 1 0 3
1910. . 163,641 21,551 1515 18 6
1911.. 206,998 27,793 1814 17 6
1912.. 305,653 24,804 2599 17 0
1913.. 470,796 BOB 3754 15 11
1914.. 636,790 61.950 4192 13 2
1915;. 880,204 -52.819 4693 10 8
1916. . 1,186,895 62,106 5313 9 0
The repayments appear to have been very
slow the last couple of years, and how much
principal is overdue there is no telling. So
far only £783 has been written off and pro-
vided for; but 42 properties which have been
foreclosed upon are still in the hands of the
bank. Curiously and improperly, these fore-
closures don’t appear in the balance-sheet
either. The only assets are —advances fo
borrowers, £1,186,895 ; interest due. £24.408;
furniture, etc., £7O. Apparently the fore-
closures are included with the advances;
and there is no distinction between advances
overdue and otherwise. These are flaws in
the accounts that ought not to be repeated.
Victorian State Coal Mine (Won-
thaggi) : —The profit for the year to June
30. including interest earnings (£2381), was
£45,684. This, with previous profit, has been
allocated as follows :—-
June, For Depreciation. Sinking Fund. Total Profit
1911 .. £17,052 £7,050 £24,102
1912 . . 1,892 7,942 9,834
1913 . . 10,906 30,854 41,760
1914 . . 26,699 12,318 39,017
1915 .. 44,476 11,581 56,057
1916 . . 33,729 11,955 45,684
£134,754 £81,700 £216,454
Written 1
offassets 130,954
Repaid f 155 ’ 115
to State 24,161 J
£3,800 £57,539 £61,339
That is to say, the total profit, exclusive of
what it is necessary to contribute to a sink-
ing fund for the repayment of capital, is
£3BOO. No dividend has been paid to the
State, which supplied the capital; but, of
course, interest has been paid—somewhere
about 3f p.c. In all, the State has advanced
£250,000, of which £7050 has been repaid,
in addition to some temporary loans.
The coal property cost the State nothing;
and there were no promotion expenses or
anything of that sort. Yet, up to now, the
proposition has barely paid the State its
3| p.c. and provided enough to cover depre-
ciation and feed the sinking fund. Of this
sinking fund, by the way, £39,730 is in
Government stock, £10,760 in cash and the
balance apparently is “invested in the busi-
ness,” to employ the usual cant. The sooner
it is put into Government stock the better.
And there ought to be a public trustee to
hold it.
An amount of £10,760 put by each year
and improved at compound interest will
wipe out the existing capital debt in about
16 years;.and, all going well, the mine will
last many years longer than that. Coal
produced during the past 12 months was
452,798 tons, and in the previous year
567,056 tons. The manager says: “While
much useful and necessary information has
been gained, my previous estimate of avail-
able coal reserve in the State-mine area,
approximately 20,000,000 tons, has been
altered only by the amount of coal extracted
during the year.” The mine should thus
have a good many years of life after the
sinking fund has repaid the State.
Meantime the undertaking is severely han-
dicapped by the restrictions put upon it by
the Leg. Council. It may not sell large coal
to the public; that may be sold only to the
Railways and other Government depart-
ments. The public may be supplied only
with slack. During the past year the cus-
tomers were: Railways, 275,658 tons; other
departments, 12,318 tons; public, 145,546
tons. No doubt the public gets a small
direct advantage out of the working of the
mine, inasmuch as it keeps the private
owners who supply the balance of the rail-
way requirements from becoming too rapa-
cious. But the benefit would be much larger
if the Wonthaggi miners took their part
more seriously. “The mine lost 23 days,”
the manager says, “owing to the refusal of
the employees to remain at work while the
new agreement was under discussion, and
other short stoppages were occasioned by
sectional strikes and stop-work meetings,
while employees also absented themselves for
14 days in connection with a fatal accident.”
The workers are all or nearly all Labor
men ; and this is how they proceed to demon-
strate the advantages of State ownership,
which is a leading plank in their platform!
* * * *
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.):
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1908.. £911,723 £648,360 £263,363
May, 1909.. 901,838 673,622 228,216
Mav, 1910.. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910.. 484,755 408.450 76,305
Mav, 1911.. 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911.. 452,336 381,730 70,606
Mav, 1912.. 537,378 349,985 187,393
Nov., 1912.. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913.. 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov., 1913. . 496,936 351,973 144,963
May, 1914.. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov., 1914.. 502,382 438,546 63,836
Mav, 1915.. 503,018 400,215 102,803
Nov., 1915.. 647.038 478,395 168,643
Mav, 1916.. 617.754 499,616 118,138
Nov., 1916.. 643,990 502,475 141,515
That looks a bit better. Rut in the half-
year to the end of May £24,746 was charged
to income tax, whereas for the past six
months only £5OOO is put by on this account.
On the other hand, not so much copper was
delivered and settled for as was produced;
and pending realisation the metal has been
taken into account at the old £55 per ton.


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured by the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include; —Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Cor-> pressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments ; Transformers and Converters; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
m
mm
Manchestei
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works —TrafSord Park, Manchester, England.
Ihe Australian General Electric Company, Went-
worth Avenue, Sydney, corner Queen and kittle
Collins Street, Melbourne, stock a complete line of
insulators the quality and reliability of which make
them especially adaptable to electric-mine service,
the above Company will be pleased to submit full
particulars or quotations in this connection, as
desired.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alurnino-
fei lie is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying ’ water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams &Co
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt
* * * v.
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and sav
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the '
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to* forward particulars.— Advt. [1
When considering economy there can be no satis-
factory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe, the
ideal pressure pipe. Manufactured in all sizes, from
3in. to 14ft. in diameter. Send for illustrated cata-
logue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited.
Head Office: 57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to
all State Governments. Factories at Lane Cove
River, N.S.W. ; Footseray, Vic.; Port Adelaide, S.A.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * #
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yearn’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Kequisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
sample Crushers Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H B
SHberberg & Co Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney
and 440 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
£ are Born to
Insure in
Th{ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited,
Capital Paid-up £545.760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 9
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 ®
„ £783,611 0 0
HEAD OPFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
whereas the six months’ output has averaged
£lO7 12s. (id. on realisation. With the
exception of small quantities for local con-
sumption the whole of the 1917 output has
been sold to the British Munitions Depart-
ment at £l2O per ton c.i.f. London.
It is the costs that are still the weak
feature of the Mt. Morgan position ; and in
part they seem to be due to a still-defective
organisation. For the last six months they
averaged 50s. 10.99 d. per ton as against
475. 10.7 d. for the previous half-year. The
net profit was equal to £3l Is. Gd. per ton
of copper produced. Taking the average
price realised for the half-year’s production,
this means that the cost was £76 11s.
Strictly, it wasn’t quite as much as that,
because, whereas 1875 tons brought in from
the preceding term averaged £94 16s. 5d.,
2196 tons in stock at the end of the term
is valued at £55. In other words, the half-
year benefits by £39 16s. sd. per ton on 1875-
tons and loses £52 12s. (xl. per ton on 2196
tons, assuming that the half-year’s average
can still be got for the metal in stock on
November 30. So the half-year’s accounts
gained about £74.000 from surpluses and
lost about £116,000 by taking in copper at
£55 instead of £lO7 12s. 6d., and the differ-
ence is £42,000. If we add that to the
half-year’s profit we get £183,000, which
means that the profit per ton of output was
about £4O 3s. (id., and the true working costs
(including development and realisation)
about £67 9s. per ton. Unless a co. can
see how it can cut down costs severely to
meet altered circumstances, it can’t feel
very comfortable when it faces costs like
that.
The fact that this co. takes its unsold
copper into account at £55 shows wliat is
regarded as a fair thing in normal times.
And it hasn’t always been even £55. The
world passed through one of its periods of
depression (which generally means a period
of liquidation after boom commitments and
prices) in the earlier ’9o’s, when the market
for standard copper got down to these fig-
ures: 1892, £44; 1893, £42; 1894, £3B;
1895, £.39; 1896, £4l; then rising gently
until in 1900 the top was £79 and the bot-
tom £6B. Whether we are going to have low
prices in the near future this paper doesn’t
know. But, especially so far as metals are
concerned, they must be regarded as more
than possibilities. Among the probable fac-
tors governing future prices these things
have to be taken into account: (1) The
copper-producing countries of the world are
not in the war zone and are producing
largely; (2) no metal-production more
quickly responds to high prices than that of
copper; (3) a considerable part of the
metal now being “consumed” will be avail-
able for commercial purposes by and bye;
(4) high prices (of stores, etc.) have re-
sulted in a diminished output of gold, and
this will tend to gradually reduce prices of
all commodities.
Mt. Morgan mined 156,805 tons of its
reserves last half-year, and it had 4,176,795
tons left. Both sets of figures are exclusive
of low-grade ore outside the reserves; last
half-year 25,117 tons of this latter material
was mined. Assuming that these outside
ores can be drawn upon throughout in the
same proportion there is about 14 years’
work in sight; and efforts to increase the
figures have had poor results. If the co.
gave £200,000 profit per annum the total in
14 years would be £2,800,000, equal to 565.
per share; and he would be a venturesome
man who would say that the figures and
past experience warrant any such valuation.
In addition, however, the co. had at the end
of November liquid and semi-liquid assets
valued at £559,412 after providing for all
liabilities.
The National Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. of Australasia. (Mel-
bourne) :
Oct., Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1905.. Bp.c. = £240'0 £l4 £23,959
1906.. 2725 9 ~ „ 2700 25 23,984
1907.. 2714 9 „ „ 2700 14 23,998
1908.. 2761 9 „ „ 2700 61 24,059
1909.. 2751 9 „ „ 2700 51 24,110
1910.. 5680 10 ~ ~ 3000 2680 26,790
1911.. 4122 10 „ „ 3000 1122 27,912
1912.. 3540 10 ~ ~ 3000 540 28,452
1913.. 4114 10 „,, 3000 1114 29,566
1914.. 4274 10 „„ 3000 1274 30,840.
1915. . 3242 12 „ „ 3600 30,482
1916.. 3509 10 „,, 3000 509 30,991
Ireland is supposed to be able generally to
speak for itself; but, though there is a lot
of the distressful country in the National
Trustees, it is one of the most reticent cos.
in this line of business. It is among the
very few that don’t even to this day disclose
the value of the trusts in hand. But you
can get some idea of the increase of business
from this comparison :
Gross earnings after 1906. 1910. 1914. 1916.
providing for con-
tingencies. . . . £8796 £13,329 £13,221 £13,654
Salaries . . . . 4893 5,887 7,118 7,724
Other exes 1102 1,362 1,664 1,955
The rapid growth of “other exes.” is mainly
due to increased taxes. The capital is
£30,000, and clients are further protected
by an uncalled £120,000. Given reasonably
prudent management, however, the share-
holders don’t take much risk, apart from
the investment of their own funds. This
shows, among other things, how the co.’s
money has been disposed of: —
1905. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities .. £346 £705 £285 £334
Liquid assets. . 11,425 15,239 11,435 11,189
Freehold . . 23,600 28,600 42,803 41,600
Foreclosures . . 13,122 7,684 5,887 5,887
Mortgages . . 5,190 4,906 1,990 2,290
Other assets . . 2,248 2,966 2,357 2,276
The liquid assets consist almost wholly of
Vic. inscribed stock and cash; the freehold
is Queen-street property, purchased years
ago, and still in at cost. The apparent in-
crease in this item is due to the paying-off
of a mortgage : the property is now unen-
cumbered. Additions and improvements
have been charged against revenue: in 1915,
for instance, they amounted to over £l2OO.
It is a lucky co. that can make so easy a 10
p.c. without backing anybody else’s bill or
taking a serious risk with its own money.
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Vic-
toria (Melbourne) :
Carried to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Aug., 1910.. £72 5 p.c. = £6O £l2 £95
Feb., 1911.. 72 4 „ „ 50 22 117
Aug., 1911.. 62 4 „ „ 46 16 133
Forfeited capital.. 18 151
Feb., 1912.. 57 4 p.c. = 41 16 167
Aug., 1912.. 53 41 „ „ 44 9 176
Feb., 1913.. 41 41 „ „ 40 1 177
Aug., 1913.. 59 41 „ „ 49 10 187
Feb., 1914.. 60 41 „ „ 48 <l2 199
Aug., 1914.. 45 41 ~ ~ 48 196
Forfeited capital.. 9 205
Feb., 1915.. 52 41 p.c.= 48 4 209
Aug., 1915.. 38 41 „ „ 42 205
Feb., 1916.. 45 41 „ „ 39 6 211
Aug., 1916.. 34 41 „ „ 34 211
This mite was formed primarily to finance
Vic. civil servants who wanted credit at the
stores which the service started and mis-
managed to death. The co. works on its own
small capital, and has its value as a co-
operative venture. But it is doubtful
whether it is worth keeping alive if further
capital is not available. That capital is
withdrawable and has dwindled now to under
£2OOO.
* * * , *
Australia’s biggest butter-maker, the North
Coast Co-operative Co. (N.S.W.), turned out
29201 tons (6,555,5011 b.) last half-year, as
against 2036 tons (4,500, SSI lb.) in the latter
half of droughty 3915. For the half-year’s
yield the co. got £425,397. The average
price realised for all grades was 15.57 d. per
lb. Straight out, suppliers got £376,892; in
addition they received a bonus of £3415.
Thus the suppliers of the raw material got
375. 9d. in the £ of what the finished pro-
duct realised straight out. From the
other 2s. 3d., plus incidental scraps of
revenue (ice and buttermilk sales, bonus and
dividend from the Coastal Farmers, who
market the butter, etc.), the co. paid all
manufacturing charges, freight to market,
exchange, etc. It is a triumph of co-opera-
tion and cash trading. Besides its butter
trade the co. realised £77,028 straight out for
bacon and paid suppliers £63,295. The divi-
dend is 0 p.c. on the very modest capital of
£33.012. Plant alone has cost £147,070, but
it has been written down to £62,974.
So far Sydney Ferries, Ltd., has been for-
tunate in escaping attack from season-ticket-
holders on the question of the signing away
of their rights as ordinary passengers. The
person who wants to buy travelling from
the co. wholesale finds it necessary to sign
a document containing these remarkable
clauses:—
The company shall not be liable for loss of life,
or injury, or delay, suffered by any passenger, how-
ever caused, nor loss of, or damages, or injury or
damage to passengers’ luggage, or other property
or chattels, whether such loss, damage, injury, deten-
tion or delay arise from accident or from theft,
or pilferage, or from any act, default, neglect or
error of judgment of masters, officers or crew, or
any other servant or agent of the company.
These conditions shall apply to any renewal of the
said ticket, and the issue of any future ticket to me.
There is absolutely no good reason why the
season-ticketholder should be placed on a
different footing from the occasional travel-
ler ; and it is at least doubtful whether, in
view of all the circumstances, the co. could
establish the position it assumes. But it
would cost a private individual a lot of
money to shift the co. out of that position.
This is distinctly a matter for Parliament.
If the Legislature thinks that the regular
traveller by the Harbor ferries should have
the same rights as the casual traveller, it
can very easily declare illegal such an unfair
“agreement” as the co. now requires its
regular customers to sign.
The Tas. Government proposes to pur-
chase from the Railton-Latrobe Shale Co.
its property, comprising 1500 acres of the
Mersey shale deposits at Latrobe. The
price is £65,000, for which the co. will take
44 p.c. debentures redeemable in 10 years.
The Commonwealth Government has con-
tracted to take at least 8000 tons of fuel
oil for a period of 10 years at £3 15s. per
ton in tanks at Devonport. The Speck Gov-
ernment proposes to spend £150,000 in plant,
development, pipe line, etc., making a total
capitalisation of £215,000. The plant will
have a capacity of 00,000 tons of shale per
annum, which will, on the estimates, pro-
duce per ton 35 gallons of fuel oil, seven
gallons of petrol and two gallons of crude
oil, or a total of 13,000 tons of fuel oil,
630,000 gallons of petrol and 18,000 gallons
of crude oil. Treatment costs, according to
Dr. Wade, will be 14s. 2d. per ton. If the
whole of the products are sold at pre-war
prices it is estimated that the venture will
show a profit of something over £30,000 per
annum. The Commonwealth Government
will probably take the whole of the fuel
output later on, but in any case there should
be no difficulty in disposing of the product.
If present prices are maintained, it would
mean another £20,000 profit. The import-
ance of having a local oil supply for the
Commonwealth Navy is the big factor, and
the Tas. Government is to be commended
for its pluck in developing the industry. The
matter was initiated by the late Labor Gov-
ernment, which had to leave before negotia-
tions were completed, and now the Lee Gov-
ernment, after looking closely into the
question, finds it so attractive, that Minis-
ters are sinking their objection to State
socialism in the hope of providing for the
time shortly when Tassy will lose the Fed-
eral grant and will then have to develop
something substantial or sue for annexation
by the Commonwealth.
* * * *
Silver-lead mining at Zeehan (Tas.) now
depends almost entirely upon tributors, who
are producing a fair amount of ore. Owing
to the fact that their labor counts as a com-
pliance, under the Mining Act, with the lease
covenants, they are keeping in ownership idle
companies to which they pay royalties.
Though the scale is lower now, 30, 40 and up
to 60 p.c. was not uncommon on the field,
and the tributor in a good many cases had
no agreement and had to trust to the sweet
will of the owner, who raised the royalty as
the ore improved. Last session Mines Minis-
ter Ogden, who knows all about the game,
introduced a Mining Bill which (1) cut out
tributors’ labor as a compliance with the
covenants, and (2) provided for a firm agree-
ment between owner and tributor, with no
royalty chargeable until the tributor has
earned £2 per week. The former provision
was eliminated in the Assembly, and the
latter passed. The Bill was not dealt with
by the Leg. Council last session, but was re-
introduced and passed by that Chamber this
year, and will pass the Assembly before
Parliament rises. The Council actually
raised the subsist allowance" to £2 10s. per
week, nut refused to agree to the proposal
regarding tributors’ labor, which would have
forced companies to spend some of their own
money or forfeit their leases. The tributor
will, however, have the protection of a firm
contract, which must fix area and depth of
ground, royalty and other conditions, and it
also secures him in the case of change of
ownership.
Pioneer (Tas.), with plenty of water for
sluicing, had a good year, and announces
a Is. 6d. dividend, which costs £12,000.
The output is from 500 to 600 tons of black
tin a year, and average costs are below £4O
per ton, which compares very well even with
Tongkah Harbor. “Prohibitive labor con-
ditions” and all thrown in, the Pioneer is
producing oxide assaying 73 p.c. tin at a
lower cost than most Siamese and Malay
cos.
* * * *
Briseis (Tas.), having its head office in
London, had to pay Britain 4s. 6d. in the £
on the £15,000 which it divided last month.
The previous dividend, in June, was taxed
at the rate of 2s. Bd. in the £. Briseis is
loaded with 600,000 shares, and its capital
is nominally £600,000, so its £15.000 divi-
dend is a modest 2| p.c. But shares are
rarely over 55., and on that basis a sixpenny
spells 10 p.c. The profit earned is about
£7OOO a quarter, which is equal to about 35
p.c. of the value produced.
* * *
Lefroy (Tas.), which has been in a state
of suspended animation for the best part of
20 years, is preparing to have a good time
on the strength of the Back Creek Deep
Leads. A report reads: “Struck heavy
water-worn cement wash, giving prospects
of coarse gold. The bottom is dipping to
S.E. and very smooth.” Shares took a
jump from one to five shillings. The Back
Creek is the last survivor of a number of
companies floated in Launceston, and only
a grant from the Government has enabled
it to survive. There is no telling what may
happen; certainly the lead until it dipped
under the basalt was about the richest piece
of dirt in Tasmania.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, is making a fine success
of slime treatment by the Bradford process.
It produced 1188 tons of lead and 3302 tons
of zinc concentrates in four weeks. The
feature of the return is the average assay
of 53.93 p.c. lead and 79.420 z. silver in the
lead concentrates.
* * * *
The Associated smelters at Port Pirie are
making improved practice. A while back an
extraction of 75 p.c. of the zinc from con-
centrates was good work, but an average of
80 p.c. is now usual. When spelter passes
£4O the men recelye a bonus pronortionate
to the extraction wffien it is over SO p.c.
* * * *
We can be proud of our metallurgy, any-
way. At the end of 1916 B. H. South was
recovering no less than 90 p.c. of the lead
from crudes averaging 14 p.c. Silver recov-
eries have been low for years, but the new
slimes plant is producing a concentrate con-
taining 58.7 p.c. lead and 47.80 z. silver.
From a 2i p.c. copper ore Mount Morgan,
with the help of the mineral separation pro-
cess, is recovering 93 p.c. of the copper and
79 p.c. of the gold. Sintered concentrates
assay 7.09 p.c. copper and 16.34dwt. of gold.
Wallaroo and Moonta is also doing remark-
ably well with low-grade copper ore by
mineral separation; and Hampdeh-Clon-
curry has been persuaded by that success to
provide itself with a similar plant.
* * * *
Kampong Kamunting is one of the not-too-
numerous Malay ventures that don’t do vio-
lence _to their estimates. Last month its
working costs (two dredges) were 2.87 d. per
cub. yard and _the working profit 6.58 d.,
equal in all to £5266. But even at the Ivarn-
•pong there is a considerable discrepancy
between boring results and recoveries. No.
1 dredge worked ground which the bores said
was worth .891 b. per yard. It actually got
out 1.121 b. On the other hand, *\o. 2, which
worked ground that was worth 1.031 b. in
theory, found it good for only .731 b. in
practice.
T> W\ A. Freeman, who has the Austral-
Bouvian tin proposition in hand, is on the
way to the United States, where there are
two or three financial groups that want to
know something more about it. War-time
regulations in Australia made a satisfactory
dotation here doubtful; so an American co
is probable.
Mount Oxide is to be connected by rail
with Mount Elliott’s smelter at Selwyn and
refinery at Bowen,- and a bill authorising a
State line is being engineered through the
Queensland Parliament. The sooner high-
grade and payable copper mines are linked
up with the railway system the better, for
John Bull is almost at the mercy of
America and Spain for his supply of red
metal. The extension to Mount Oxide
means 85 miles of rail.


MAKE YOUR OWN COUGH MIXTURE.
A pint of the finest quality remedy for
coughs, colds and throat troubles —equal to
12s. worth of ordinary mixtures —may be
made in a few minutes by adding 2s. worth
of ITean’s Essence to water and sweetening.
Sir Rider Haggard, the famous novelist, who
recently visited Australia, wrote, on the eve
of his departure: “You will be interested to
know that I am taking a supply of Hean’s
Essence away with me. Upon my return to
England I shall be pleased to bring its merits
under the notice of my friends.”_ Hean’s
Essence is obtainable from all leading chem-
ists and stores. — Advt.
HEERIHGd
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBJS.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
1 RgJMPff
r
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
Bznnsit^Barkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
■at
13
PAULINE et CIE
announce Special Great Reductions in
all their MODEL MILLINERY, etc.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EH3
TRADE MARK
THe TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, January S, 1917..
My Dear Arini. —
There was no Governor-General this year
to put a head on the local Scots’ New Year
gathering. The State Governor came to
town for the skirl, and veteran Dr. Mac-
kellar —rejuvenated by the mineral wash of
Moree—was amongst the old inhabitants at
the sports. Dr. Storie Dixson, Currie Elies,
Colonel Burns and a hefty' gathering of cosy
citizens with long tags of tartan dangling
from their buttonholes, foregathered from
morn till niclit. Which somehow reminds
one of Harry Lauder. For him this wasn’t
a happy first-footing, for an only son —the
one Lauder chick —was lately killed in
France.
The New Year’s concert filled the Town
Hall with much the same crowd as attended
the annual ceremony of Tossing the Caber.
But there were added a few old ladies,
dragged from urban retreats, who might,
barring the crinolines, have stepped out
of “Bunty Pulls the Strings.” One vener-
able dame had her back-hair caged in
a thick brown velvet net. The weird thing
was almost heavy enough to catch deep-sea
fish, and the tartan bow that finished the
coiffure was a small Macgregor’s gathering.
Colonel James Burns took the centre of the
front seats with his party and settled down
to a fearsome procession of talent. Eighteen
items, doubled by encores, didn’t exhaust the
perspiring Scots. Mrs. Verbrugghen, a
comely figure in brocaded silk, sang so
sweetly of Leezie Lindsay and other long-
dead charmers that her items were a regi-
ment of repeats. Richard McClelland, not
long back from England, was the star male
singer, for Phil Newbury was not in his
best form. John Lemmone and his magic
flute assisted. Manager James Chalmers,
of Farmer’s, was the hon. conductor of a
Highland Choir —much depleted, for most of
the lads are away at the war. And the heat
isn’t good for such withered sprigs as “The
Laird o’ Cockpen,” anyhow.
School-marms come and go. In the State
mill for grinding the Young Idea there are
some whose going, however long deferred,
will be regretted by many of the mothers of
the present generation. Amongst them is
Miss Elizabeth Hurst, who may retire
within the next 12 months. Starting as a
pupil-teacher in St. James’s C. of E. school
in 1867, and passing later as a trained
teacher, Miss Hurst taught Windsor infants
in 1872, and three years later went back to
St. James’s as head-mistress. Balmain in-
fants next supped of the three R’s at her
knee. She was mistress t>f Lower Fort-
street School in 1886, and then moved to
the Stanmore Girls’ School. From that until
now there have been no more changes. A
strenuous 50 years of active service in the
education of Cornstalks will be com-
pleted on July 1 of this year. For five days
a week during the past 31 years Miss Hurst
has walked up the same steps, rung the
same bell, and healed and comforted the
same sorrows that befall the younger
scholars. She’s too shy to send her photo—
even with so fine a jubilee in sight.
Governor Strickland took eldest daughter
Mary to Melbourne to see her aboard a boat
for the Jam Island. The busy girl hasn’t
been up to her top form since a minor opera-
tion a little while back. So she is going to
stay with the Chief Justice Cullens on the
hill beyond Hobart. With the indefatigable
Strickland, who wanted an official chat with
the Victorian Ex. Stanley, went the tactful
Secretary Budge.
The Law is moving hither and thither to
seek the iced breeze on mountain tops. The
Adrian Knox couple went to Hobart, and will
be able to foregather with the legal Cullens
at Mount Wellington.
Old squatter Charles Burcher, whose will
was proved at £168,000 the other day, was
uncle Charlie to many nieces and great-
nieces. Some of them were handsomely
remembered by the stern old relative with
the Daddy Christmas beard and beetling eye-
brows. He belonged to the pioneer type of
prosperous bushmen, and never spent a
penny on social fluff, but knew how to dip
into his moneybags when there was a solid
call for help. At a* Sydney show he generally
made a beeline for the sheepsheds—a kind
of lesser heaven to the old shepherd kings
from the edge of the sunset.
Mrs-. Chris Bennett, the much-liked State
missus of the N.S.W. Voluntary Aids, is in
mourning for her just-dead husband. He
was the Chris who followed the genial Frank
as managing-proprietor of the Evening
News and Town and Country Journal.
A London correspondent mentions the dis-
tinction the silly old War Office draws be-
tween women and ladies. If the new female
invasion is tolerated it is not exactly en-
couraged. Hence in the book in which
clerks sign their names there are two head-
ings. One is “Temporary Ladies." The
other is, “Permanent Women.” The “volun-
taries” are, of course, the ladies. Still, if I
had to choose, I think I’d rather be a per-
manent woman than a temporary lady.
When the war was mouths and months
younger The Bulletin told the story
which sounded like a double-barrelled
romance of an exalted Russian naval officer
named Domerschikoff. Though lie had fled
to Australia on account of political trouble,
he nevertheless decided when the big trouble
began that he must go back and chance the
consequences. His grateful country, on his
reappearance, promptly eourt-martialled
him, and lie was actually on his way to
Siberia when the pleading of influential
friends gained permission for him to tight in
the ranks. Since then he has gone gather-
ing promotions and decorations and honors
as easily as you or I might pluck fruit off
a tree. Dive Crosses of St. George, two
gold swords and the Belgian Cross sent to
iiim by the King of Belgium, are among the
tally iip to the date of the last letter from
his wife, who, before she decided to sample
the seething political pot of Europe, was
Miss Fussell, of Sydney. The lady writes
enthusiastically of her adopted country'. She
gives a very loud cheer for its excellent rail-
way systems, and she ought to know-* some-
thing about them, for she speaks of journeys
to Petrograd and Odessa, Baku and Tiflis,
Bessarabia and the Caucasus, as one might
of coming home from Manly by the Spit.
She finds the Russian a very cheery and
polite person, very different from the morbid
individuals who live in the pages of the
Russian novel.
Here is an Australian lass who has a
managing way with her. She is Miss Evans,
the bundle of tact in charge of the Ash-street
Anzac Buffet for returned Billjims. As
Commandant of the Mosman V.A.D.’s, the
capable young woman made a success of the
first Anzac Buffet in Sydney. This was in
the cellar under the old Education Building.
When that haven was carted away in loose
bricks the Mosman girls moved into premises
in Ash-street. There the cobwebs vanished
before clean paint, and for months it has
been one of the returned men’s favorite
lounge rooms.
Justice Ferguson on Saturday reopened
the Domain Anzac buffet under entirely new
management. The boss lady—who isn’t
looking for this personal ad. but meekly
swallows it to help the cause —is the same
Miss Evans. With her team of hard-worked
V.A.D.’s she organises a double shift. The
Ash-street premises go on as usual from
dusty morn to sunny eve —5 p.m. by the new
Ananias time —while the Domain Anzac
will take orders from Billjim during the
hours that stretch between 3 and 10 at
night. If you don’t want that batch of cakes
you’re making, send them to either of the
two Anzacs. It’s up to everyone to help
these devoted women.
There was a busy day at St. Francis
Xavier’s Church, Lavender Bay, last week.
An archbishop and four assistant priests
were engaged tying the usual knot. The bride-
groom was Captain James N. Duhig, of
Brisbane, and the bride Kathleen Mary, eld-
est daughter of J. M. Taylor, who is one
of the Public Service Commissiqners. Arch-
bishop Duhig, uncle of the groom, tripped
specially from Brisbane to perform the
Ceremony; and the Pope sent his blessing
by cable. “Breakfast” at the Wentworth;
then away to Melbourne.
Doris Egerton Jones, who is responsible
for “Peter Piper” and a few other novels,
lias just given her affections into the keeping
of Keg Callaghan, of the Windsor branch,
who is No. X on a gun somewhere on the
cold Front. Doris E., besides being a writer,
can tack LL.B. on to her name, and is an
accomplished person. It was mostly to allow
her to plead at the Bar that the S. Aus.
Parliament squeezed an Act through; and
then she didn't. The local color of her latest
book, “The Cocoanut Planter,” was acquired
on a round trip to Papuan waters, find most
of her fellow passengers figure in the cast.
Mr. and Mrs. John Gale, of Queanbeyan,
had their “diamond” wedding on January 3,
with four generations to join in the congratu-
lations. The old folks have 11 children,. 3!)
grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren to
hear from. Old John founded the Queanbeyan
Age, which was originally The Goloen Age,
and sat in our Parliament just upon 30
years ago.
At St. Stephen’s Church, Chatswood.
two Saturdays ago. Gertrude Ward, of
Artarmon. was married to Leslie Hamilton
Wright. The bride wore a graceful frock of
ivory crepe de chine, lavishly trimmed with
rose point lace. A court train fell from
the shoulders, and a long embroidered veil was
lent by the bride’s friend Mrs. E. Farleigh.
Bridesmaid Vera Ward was a picture in a
simple frock of white organdie made with
fichu, topped by a pink chi]) hat trimmed
with green leaves and pink tulle. Ernest
Lording "(Melbourne) was next-best man,
and Miss F. Piggott, cousin of the bride,
sang “Until” during the signing of the
register. Subsequently the guests were
entertained at the Wards’ Artarmon resi-
dence, Warrego.
Mountain air claims many visitors this
month. Queensland Judge Chubb and bis
daughters are among them ; and so are Jus-
tice Real and his wife.
Julius Knight is resting arid knitting in
Sydney these days. On the Coogee sand he
comes like a sunburst in pink shirt, purple
tie and green sox; and, later, in sapphire, he
purls in the breakers.
News of note from Maoriland is the
engagement of Nancy Rich, daughter of
Maitland Rich, of Christchurch, to Colville
Smith, from England. It was a sea-catch,
the man being on a convalescing trip. Miss
Rich is a niece of our Professor Ilaswell’s
wife.
Wellington (M.Lv) has done some expen-
sive farewelling to the junior Countess of
Glasgow, who is removing her nursery and
luggage to Kelburn Castle, in Ayrshire, her
seagoine lord having been ordered to another
part of the naval world. The senior Glas-
gow widow was once vice-regal lady in
Maoriland, and her brother, A.D.C. Reggie
llunter-Blair, captured heiress Emily Rhodes,
of Christchurch, younger sister of Ileaton.
M.F.
Melba may go any day to ’Frisco —per-
haps she’s on the water from Honolulu
already. The word was to come from an
overseas friend, Lady Susan Fitzclarenee, a
war-widow seeking solace, perhaps, in a trip
this way as the guest of our Sovereign 'Voice.
If the lady says “Yes” she comes via U.S.A.,
and the Coombe Cottage hostess meets her in
the city where poor old Dan O’Connor niet
the earthquake.
Major Douglas Marks, a Neutral Bay
man, has the picturesque Order of the
White Eagle of Servia to add to his Military
Cross. Before getting into the trouble in
France he had the luck to be of those who
were privileged to be with the Fighting
Thirteenth at tragic Gallipoli. He is a con-
nection, by the way, of Mrs. McDonald, the
sweet songstress who was Kitty Slattery
years ago.
One of the New Year D.S.O.’s decorates
Surgeon-Major Phipps, who abides in Mos-
man in times of peace. Returned men men-
tion his good work on Anzac. Mrs. Phipps
is billeted in Blighty.
Amongst the warmest of the sojers’ friends
are the voluntary cooks in the lied Cross
Kitchens, with Mrs. Holdship as the missus.
They stuck to their ovens over the swelter-
ing holidays, so they’ve earned a Double Plalo
when that decoration is handed out. Near
bv the pickle-and-condiment ladies had to
pull down their sleeves and desert the onion
and the red cabbage. The coal strike hit the
glass-bottle industry, and the hon. cooks and
bottlewashers are snatching a holiday in
consequence.
Lieut. J. E. S. Walsh, killed in France,
was the only son of H. D. Walsh, one of the
Sydney Harbor Trust commissioners. He
was an old boy of The King’s School, and
had just finished the second year of his
engineering course at Sydney Uni. when he
enlisted early last year. Another Sydney
subaltern, F. B. Fitzpatrick, killed in France,
was a grandson of Michael Fitzpatrick, a
one-time politician in the Ma State; his
peace-time job was under the Water and
Sewerage Board. He enlisted as soon as war
broke out, went through Gallipoli from land-
ing to evacuation, and was congratulated by
General Cox for gallantry under shell-fire.
Of three surviving brothers, two are wearing
khaki.
Died at Sydney, G. *F. Vaughan, known
to several generations of Sydney Grammar
boys as “Grumpy.” Vaughan had a first-
class Oxford degree, and was headmaster of
Maryborough (Q.) Grammar School when
dear old Weigall brought him south in 1892
to teach classics at Sydney. In Latin, Greek
and ancient history his pupils were con-
sistent winners of medals at “juniors” and
“seniors” for many years. Vaughan also
started a school “hobbies club,” which did
good work for the boy whose tastes ran to
such things as carpentery and photography
instead of games; and he loitered on the
s ; dewalk of the Inky Way for a while
editing the school magazine.
There’s plenty of sympathy for ex-Chief
Secretary George Black. His wife, after a
health-trip to the other side, and heroic
efforts to keep on smiling, has to give in to
being a very sick woman. She is in a Syd-
ney private hospital.
' Somewhere at the back of the city’s heart
there’s a Medical Mission where the very
poor used to pay “thruppence” for a bottle
of medicine. Its founder was Dr. Julia Fox,
who died the other day. A Sydney ’Varsity
woman, this friend of the needy sick gave
her services in the backwoods of the city for
years, till ill-health forced her to go slow in
her lion, healing work. Wife of Dr. Robert
Fox, of Lidcombe. the late Dr. Julia was a
sister of Mrs. Budden, the Ivillara lady
whose husband is Red Crossing on the other
side.
Manly is getting the usual summer atten-
tion from the squattocracy in the very latest
bathing kit. The Augustus Hooke pair
(Walcha), the A. A. Gordons of Queens-
land, the Phil Tooheys, and the Fenwickes of
Walcha —the place the good polo ponies used
to come from —are amongst the Village’s
surf visitors.
Mrs. Herring, who used to be Florette
Murray Prior, is a proud young matron this
New Year. It brought a D.S.O. to her hus-
band, a Lieut.-Colonel who was in Gal-
lipoli, and is now in France. His wife is
only over the Channel with baby Diana—the
kiddie with the phenomenal ear for music.
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Shaw and their
daughter have removed from Macquarie-
street to Carnarvon, Bayswater-road. Mrs.
Shaw is staying for the summer at their
seaside home at Austinmer.
Did you notice with what garlands. of
flowers the old year sank into its hiding
place? Never since the days of Dolly
Varden have the Girls’ glad rags been so
botanical. Even the very nicest hats are
stamped all over with miniature gardens.
Saw 'a beauteous young thing the other after-
noon who appeared to be looking out at the
world under a bouquet of tulips. It was the
wide brim of the new umbrella millinery,
stamped with the Dutch blooms as large as
life.
Autumn millinery is already in the air.
That is to say, the willy-wagtail has told
the sparrows on the housetops that silk
beaver hats and immense black velvet head-
gear will blow this way in March. Even
now the heavy-weight velvet covering is seen
on the lately-returned and thankful-to-be-
here Australian woman. Furs —big capes
with high collars —are only hanging back
for the really simmering days of February.
Then they’ll trim the stands in our best
showrooms.
Taffeta silk, the shiny modern relation of
grandma’s glace, has for some reason been a
prime favorite this summer. Possibly its
steady wear and good behavior in not “rag-
ging” has given us its rustle again. The
antimacassar that belonged to the glace
period is, however, still buried with the
horsehair sofa.
The Nurse Cavell calendar is a handsome
local production, designed by Syd Ure Smith ;
and every page of it is a hint that E. B.
Giles, of 4 O’Connell-street, is waiting to
receive even your smallest contribution to
the Rest Home.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS.
DAINTY WEDDING PRESENTS
IN THE HIGHEST-QUALITY SILVERPLATE.
A copy of the Company’s New Illustrated
Catalogue, just issued, containing numerous
suggestions for inexpensive Wedding
Presents, will be forwarded Post Tree on
request.
Two-tier Cake Stand, Solid Frame, with
handsomely-pierced, Removable Dishes.
Diameter of Dishes, 7 inches. Height of
Stand, 13J inches.
£3 18 0
FIVE PER CENT.
DISCOUNT ON ALL
CASH TRANSACTIONS.
Round Bowl, with shaped edge,
fcr Sweets or Almonds. Height,
2| inches. Diameter, 5 inches.
11/-
Pierced Cake Basket, with Round,
•Jointed Handle. Diameter, 7 inches.
£1 15 0
Handsomely-pierced Nut
Fruit Dish. Diameter
£lO 0
or Dried
| inches.
SHOWROOMS
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
DEVELOPING OUTFITS
For all makes of Cameras
At HARRINGTONS.
✓ *
Half the pleasure of photography lies in developing and
printing your own plates and films. It is most fascinating to
watch the picture come into being in the developing dish
first the high-lights, then the half-tones, and finally the detail.
We have complete Developing and Printing Outfits for all
makes of Cameras, including Brownies, Kodaks, Ensigns, etc.,
under.
24x34
9/6
24x34
a
For Films-
For Plates-
2ix2i
9/-
12/-
•31 x 41
12/6
31 x 41
13/6
31 x 51 in.
13/6
31 x 51 in.
16/C
When buying Films, ask for the
BRITISH-MADE ENSIGN.
They fit all Cameras made to take Roll Films, including
Brownies*- Kodaks, Carbines, Ensignettes, etc.
They are non-curlable, free from halation, very fast speed, and
have valuable orthochromatic properties.
Dealers in almost every town in the Commonwealth and New
Zealand.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and Other Metal Workers
can depend on having their
ORES, RESIDUES, SWEEPINGS and WASTE PRODUCTS
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they
send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical
Analysis. We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or
Platinum, and can supply those metals and their alloys, in
plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our Traveller will call on you.
lIP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, Sydney.
'll
□C3*
cffla
HOB
H
The Genuine
Pianola Piano
Superior to all Players of other
make regardless of price
The genuine Pianola provides you with all the power of
m’isical expression—all the varied musical effects which the
skilled pi mist’s talented fingers can attain.
But the Pianola does not stop at endowing you with a tech-
nique that is equal to all the difficulties of the most tremendous
m is: cal compositions ever written for the Piano, it gives you
also simple, accurate guidance that enables you to employ your
new found power with a subtle artistry that few amateur musi-
cians ever develop.
Even though you have never played any instrument, the
Ivletrottyle, a device exclusive with the Pianola, is a clear and
easily followed path to perfect interpretation. It is the master’s
promptings and teachings simplified so you may understand
without te ions study.
The beautiful tone shading—the power of varied emphasis
w. -v-.il gives the Pianola touch such a startling semblance to that
of human fingers, is due to another of the exclusive Pianola
devices—the Themodist.
Many other important features and improvements have given
the Pianola a superiority over every other instrument of the
player type, that is recognised and endorsed by practically every
musician of the present generation.
Yet the Pianola is not an expensive instrument.
It is placed in your home
by a Cash Payment of only
£10
Convenient amounts paid monthly in accordance with
our Special purchase Plan makes the instrument yours.
YOUR PRESENT PIANO TAKEN IN EXCHANGE
FOR THE PIANOLA.
The Genuine Pianola can only be purchased at the address
below in this city, and is only obtainable in the following
pianos:—
The Steinway, Steck, Stroud,
Weber, and Aeolian Pianos.
Call at our address or fill in this coupon, and we will send
you full particulars.
To the PIANOLA COMPANY,—
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola
Pianos, showing how I can purchase an instrument for
cash or easy terms, and what allowance you can make on
my present piano, which is a
Bought about
Name
.4 ddress
The Pianola Company
Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane & Adelaide.
WE OPEN ON FRIDAY EVENING.


HOW THIN PEOPLE MAY PUT ON
FLESH.
GREAT DISCOVERY BY EMINENT
SPECIALIST.
Judging from the countless preparations
and treatments which are continually being
advertised for the purpose of making thin
people fleshy, developing the arms, neck and
bust, and replacing ugly hollows and angles
by the Soft curved lines of health and beauty,
there are evidently thousands of men and
women who keenly feel their excessive thin-
ness, and it therefore gives us real pleasure
to publish herewith a simple prescription
which, by correcting faulty metabolism and
stimulating the activity of certain sluggish
vital organs quickly produces a marked
transformation in the appearance; the in-
crease in weight frequently averaging from
three to four pounds the first week, and
very rarely less than two. This increase in
weight also carries with it a general im-
provement in the health. Nervousness,
sleeplessness and debility, which nearly
always accompany excessive thinness, all
quickly disappear, dull eyes become bright
and pale cheeks glow with the bloom of
perfect health.
The prescription, which is absolutely
harmless, directs you to take before each
meal a 5-grain tablet of Bitro-phosphate,
such as you may obtain from any chemist,
at a cost of about 2d. a day. Eat all you
want, but chew your food thoroughly.
CAUTION- —Although the above prescrip-
tion is unequalled for relieving nervousness,
sleeplessness and general debility, it should
not, owing to its recognised flesh-growing
properties, be used by anyone who does not
desire to put on flesh. — Advt.
Keen Values in Mens Footwear
fsd
UR7S. Superior Glace Kid Lace
Boot; tan kid lined; made in half-
sizes; several different fittings and in
two smart shapes Price 32/6
Shoes, as above Price 27/6
JLess the 10 per cent. Bonus.
at Farmer’s Great
Cash Bonus Sale.
The boot illustrated is one of Farmer’s most
popular models for street wear, and one of
our best values. It is soundly constructed
from the best leathers on a comfortable last,
and never fails to give satisfaction.
Farmer’s, Sydney
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS
&
aws
MM
You should know
this trade mark.
Certain-teed
TROOPING is made of the best quality roofing felt, thoroughly
saturated with a scientific blend of soft asphalts A blended coat of
naraer asphalts keeps soft the inner saturation and prevents drying out.
Certain, teed Roofing is endorsed by leading architects everywhere. You
snould investigate its many merits. Our Sydney representative will be glad
*o supply you with samples and literature. Call on him soon.
Mr. C. C. McCann, Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Perpetual Trustee Bldg., Sydney, N. S. W.
‘ U. S. A.: East St. Louis, Illinois; Marseilles, Illinois; York, Pennsylvania; San
rm cisco, California. LONDON OFFICES Imperial House,, Kings way, London, W.C.
Distributors. .John Danks Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne; Jas. Campbell & Sons
Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe & Co., Adelaide.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, January 8, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Baronet Rupert Clarke has been laid up
for nearly six months at Salonika. Malaria
is a constant caller on Rupert, and he is
now off to England in a brave endeavor to
drop the acquaintance.
Even if that much-discussed doctor,
Colonel Barrett, misses fire in the British
New Year honor list, he will not face his old
chums with a bare stretch of tunic. The
Sultan of Egypt has handed him a third-
class Order of the Nile. This at least gave
the doctor a chance to get rid of some of his
choked-up eloquence by proposing a vote of
thanks.
ToOrak is talking of the Jim Strachans’
second boy. Twenty-two-year-old Geoff, an
original Anzac, is now a captain. He left
one eye on tlie battlefield, and is having a
set of shrapnel wounds patched up to enable
him to steam back to his proud parents.
Mrs. Jim is a daughter of the late James
Aitken, the fine old Scot who managed Dal-
getys’ for years.
Has the romantic story of the Victorian
soldier-man and the English actress ever
been published? The hero told it casually to
a Melbourne friend months ago while he was
being lionised by the stock-brokers. In his
youthful, stage-struck days he had simply
worshipped Henrietta Watson, the then lead-
ing lady of the J. C. Williamson Dramatic Co.
He dreamed of her as the cleverest and most
fascinating woman in this wide and univer-
sal theatre, the world. When he went from
town to station life, and became a lonely
young dreamer dossing in a hut, he wrote to
her, stating that he could never forget what a
wonderful creature he had thought her, and
how he would like to write again to her if
he might. The actress wrote back saying she
would just love to hear all about his life in
the Way back. In this style they corres-
ponded for quite a long time even after Miss
Watson had left Australia. But he was
beginning to forget all about his early love
when the war came, and off he went to
Egypt.
Wounded in the action where he won the
V.C., our hero (let’s call him Lieut. Thros-
sell, and be done with it) was shipped to
England. As he lay in hospital, feeling very
lonely in his convalescence, he remem-
bered his old-time friendship-on-paper with
Henrietta Watson. One of the London pic-
torials published an illustrated interview
with the lady, and her name stared the sick
soldier in the face. So he wrote to the
actress at the theatre where she was appear-
ing, telling her w r ho he was and how he came
to be in hospital. Presumably Miss Watson
learned from another source that the soldier
was a V.C. man. Anyhow, she came to his
bedside next morning with an armful of
flowers, and made a fuss over the boy who
had interested her with his artless letter-
writing in the last years of last century.
And when her new-found hero was able to
lie moved she took him to her charming house
in the country to stay awhile with her charm-
ing husband and more charming self. And
the long epistles he had written to her when
she didn’t know him from a crow were pro-
duced from a drawer in the lady's private
desk and laughed over by all the family.
Not many soldier men can tell of such a
sweetly-droll romance.
Major Jack Studholme, who lately landed a
D.S.O. in Egypt, owns Coldstream station, in
Canterbury (M.L.). He married a philan-
thropic daughter of the Archbishop of York
the first time, and afterwards annexed a
second mate, daughter of Speaker Charles
Bowen, of Maoriland, who went with hjm to
Pharaoh’s land to do war work thereabouts.
Another Studholme brother, Joe, was once
employed as sort of extra-help in the Hope-
toun household, and married Miss Hersey
Wauchope, a cousin of Lady Jlopetoun. Mrs.
.Toe was a niece of S’African Gen. Wauchope,
too.
Melbourne has welcomed home another of
its V.C.’s—bomber A. L. Reid, son of Mr.
and Mrs. A. L. Reid, of Rutherglen. Besides
his V.C. lie has a D.C.M. and is a King’s
sergeant. His Cross came for repelling
a counter-attack till supports arrived; his
medal was for something extra in a raid on
enemy trenches —both at the Somme. The
surprised young man, as silent about these
things as the rest of them, is an electrical
engineer when he isn’t a soldier, and has
left only 23 years behind him.
Lieut. Neville Fraser, Royal Field Artil-
lery, cables his parents the thrilling news of
his appointment to one of the land Dread-
noughts. He is the first Australian to get
aboard this particular type of lugger. It’s
a life on the ocean wave with the water left
out, by all accounts, as new members of the
crew get exceedingly sea sick as she rolls
into trench and shell crater.
More highly than all the political honors
Mrs. I. H. Moss, who used to be one of the
grand dames of the Women’s National
League, esteems the war medals ol her sons-
in-law—Major Norman Harris, of the
Engineers, who married the elder Moss girl,
Rita; and Acting-Brig.-General C. M. M.
Dare, who is the husband of the younger
daughter, Dot. Dot was the heroine of a
military wedding in Egypt which simply
shone with swords and stars. 'Major Harris
left a job in the engineering dept, of the Vie.
Railways to go away as a captain with the
sth Field Company. He is a Master of
Science, and after distinguishing himself in
sport and learning at Scotch College, finished
up at McGill University, Canada, where
Stephen Leacock, the Canuck humorist and
author of “Literary Lapses,” is a professor.
His Military Cross was won in France. His
brother-in-law, Charlie Dare, won his D.S.O.
in Gallipoli. Charlie was a lieut.-colonel at
27 —possibly the youngest fighting for
Britain. Dick Courtney, whom he succeeded
in that job, described him as a born
soldier who never got rattled. His father is
Monty Dare, managing-director of Brooks,
McGlashan and McHarg, the Flinders-lane
warehousemen.
The Elsternwick Fethers have further
news of elder-son Major Bill. After keeping
his end up with Jim for two years or so,
Major Bill will leave for Australia as soon
as liis wounds permit. He has done his bit.
He will bring a D. 5.0., together with a hole
or two in his handsome head.
Maxwell Homfray Maxwell Gumbleton
(ne Smith), who was turned into a bishop
at St. Paul’s Cathedral on New Year’s Day
as a preliminary to his installation at Bal-
larat, reached Melbourne from London 24
hours previously—on the one morning of the
week when Melbourne is a dull, drab, dreary
city, with lone cabs standing about waiting
a call from the church door. However, the
bishop-elect saw the New Year in with the
Archbishop, so perhaps his impressions im-
proved as the day wore on. The new
gaiters is quite young, not at all hairy, not
particularly distinguished in appearance,
and apparently prepared to regard Australia
as a country that will teach him something.
The Henry Parker knight, who was one
time Chief Justice in Westralia, gets back
to this city for the hot spell, bringing
daughters Dolly and Mildred, who will
squeeze into a Melbourne Mansions flat.
The family has the tripping habit badly.
Justice Holroyd’s widow, having disposed
of Fernacres at St. Ivilda, has crept through
the palings to son-in-law O’Hara Wood’s,
next door. The dame, whose health now
forbids all social duties, was probably the
best-liked matron in society. She had a
knack of straightening out the fiercest cat-
mittee meetings without even scratching the
most refractory cat present. Another Hol-
royd daughter is wife of Van Assche; the
youngest is widow of a young legal light of
the ’9o’s, Charlie Webb-Ware. Two O’Hara
Woods and two Van Assches are in the
trenches: also a grandson-in-law, who got
into khaki soon after his honeymoon with a
Van Assche girleen.
The Bananaland Grahams, who kept the
moths out of the Faulkner-Carse widow’s
South Yarra house whilst she tripped abroad,
have decided to move up to Toorak. where
they will get in a ton of up-to-date tables and
chairs to spread round the parlors at Bronte,
Nesta Clarke’s bricks and mortar, which has
yawned emptily since it was put together
for sister Vanda Hodges and her hubby. The
latter is at war work in the, Fog. Victor
Hood godfathered Bronte, which is named
after his brother, the Duke.
Mrs. Nicholas Fitzgerald has just
returned from England, apparently over-
come by the responsibility of mother-in-law-
ing a duchess. Her son, the irresistible
Majah Percy, you may remember, married
Millicent, the energetic Duchess of Suther-
land. Her daughter-in-law is neck-deep in
all sorts of social activities, and when last
heard from was helping to mend broken and
battered warriors in a French hospital.
The Standish and Bagot at Flemington
saw the first of the amusement tax, and
many nobly paid the backsheesh to the last
desperate fragment of the coinage. One
stout dame had made a valiant effort to
get the 12s. 54d. quite correct. She had it
all in the minor currency, and it looked
as if she had borrowed the cook’s fat-money
or had burgled baby’s money-box. A gent, pro-
bably Scotch, with an unfinished New Year’s
Eve discernible in his eye, was 34d. behind
the advertised charge for admission. He
was an annoyed MacTavish when the ticket
clerk refused to take a tram-ticket and two
poker chips in settlement of the discrepancy.
Some of the Quality adorned the meeting,
but a lot of it was trying to dodge sunburn
and freckles elsewhere. Among the Very
Best present was Prime Minister Hughes,
relentlessly pursued by his faithful Sheppard,
who is shortly off to England and the High
Commissioner’s office. During the afternoon
he kept so close to Billy that he hardly
gave his chief room enough to cast a
shadow. In fact, he almost amounted to a
Siamese twin. The Freddie Shipmans, who
had hurried over from Sydney, made a brief
matin*, appearance. Freddie wore a neck-
Ha like a lump ot seaweed, wane mi*.
“eddic was all radiant smile and damty
icecream effects. Maggie Jaivis Keynoias
was interned in simple magpie clothes
which barely hinted at the corpulence of
her hubby’s income. The handsome Mrs.
Monash, the wife of the Major-General,
florted like a bit of grey mountain mist over
the well-trimmed scenery. Ex-Mayoi
AVeedon and his wife rambled gracefully on
the lawn. S’r’enry’s moustaches were spiked
for the occasion, and his lady, arrayed in
girlish white, recalled a hold-over from a
debutante set. Unrelieved white was
Florrie Green’s New Year fancy, and Ceska
Rubinstein, the face-food savant, also
encored her pallor with a smart white suit.
Several girleens shuddered in their season-
able pink when a sudden rainstorm burst,
and one lady, queerly festooned in green
ribbons, just escaped becoming a pile ot
washing. The deluge happened immediately
before the Steeplechase and almost turned
that event into a water carnival. As on
the final day of the postponed Cup meeting,
numerous sodden flatites charged across the
course to the stand for shelter, and the
expensive crowd was again regaled with the
spectacle of one half-drowned bobby trying
to stem the rush.
Ex-Mint Master Barton and his grey-eyed
wife looked like theatrical stars on a first'
night at their golden wedding the other
Tuesday afternoon. Guests had surrounded
the pair with flowers ; otherwise the affair
bore a war-time aspect. One son and a
son-in-law were killed in the earlier days of
the great trouble, and the elder hope is now
in the Anzac trenches. Just before the
cake was hewn came a load of cabled con-
gratulatory messages from relatives all over
the globe. A brace of benedict sons dashed
down from the sheep country with golden
offerings; another wired love from Cochin
China.
The usual story from Adelaide: —
The Stanleys are due in mid-January as the guests
of the Mount Schank Clarkes. Our own little V.R.
party have gone to Marble Hill for the summer —
Lady Galway left on Wednesday and his Ex. on
the following day. But it isn’t arctic even at Mt.
Lofty.
Herbert Heaton, who has been appointed lecturer
in economics and director of tutorial classes under
the Workers’ Educational scheme, began his career
as lecturer in 1912, when he was assistant to Pro-
fessor W. J. Ashley at Birmingham, and at the
same time had tutorial classes for the students of
the Workers’ Educational Association. He is due in
this State about the middle of March.
The Arthur Hughes couple have bought Lea Lodge,
the Goodmans’ home on Sti'angwavs Terrace, North
Adelaide.
Artist G. A. J. Webb and his wife are leaving
S. Aus. for Melbourne at the end of March. Mr. Webb
has painted most well-known S. Australians in the
20 years that he has lived here. Some of his work
is in the gallery of Federal legislators in Melbourne,
so that’s some kind of an introduction.
South Aus. has a creditable, share in the latest
list of military distinctions—D.S.O. for Brig.-Gen.
Brand and Col. Price Weir; Royal Red Cross for
Matron Graham, who has been connected with the
Adelaide Hospital staff for more than 20 years ;
D.S.O. for Major 11. K. Fry, who was this State’s
Rhodes Scholar in 1909 ; and a nice collection of
Military Crosses. Of these one goes to Captain
Gordon Campbell, who, at Pozieres on July 24-25,
exhibited “great courage and marked ability as a
leader....He exhibited great gallantry, skill and
leadership.” Before he was a soldier Campbell was
a lawyer and well-known cricketer, and toured with
Mayne’s team in 1913. He had been booked as
manager of the Australian Eleven that was being
formed in 1914 to tour S’Afriea, but the war
changed all that and turned a good sportsman into a
soldier whose courage and work has frequently been
mentioned by returned Anzacs. Captain Walter
Fowler-Brownsworth has also won his M.C. His
wife, who was .a Miss Bilks, left for England with
her small son about a month ago.
From London comes news of the marriage of Con-
stance Phillipps, eldest daughter of our Belgian
Consul, to Major H. Greenway, son of the T. J.
Greenways, formerly of Broken Hill.
The Art Gallery is to have another new picture-—a
French canvas which lias been presented by George
Doolette. Artist Will Ashton, who is one of the
London committee of three that buys for the Gal-
lery, is returning to S.A. It isn't known yet who is
to take his place and carry on with the Agent-
General’ and Mr. Percy Arnold..
George Fowler Stewart died' suddenly on Wednes-
day. Born in Scotland he left school to go into
the London office of D. and J. Fowler, and was with
that firm, for a long while as a director, until about
three years ago. George Fowler, one of the found-
ders of the big business, was his uncle. Hence the
name.
The Argus Mackinnons brought forth the
tartan and the heather for a New-Year’s Eve
tnvol to welcome 1917 into their Toorak
humpy. The best people joined the Chief
and his dame in yelling “Heeh!” at the mid-
night hour in true Hieland fashion before
draining the glasses to absent frien’s in
general and young Lauchie in particular—
he is doing an Army Service bit at one of
the fronts.
ihe Reggie Clarke widow, with her infants
her big yellow car and a HeCVr! ’
A^rtfolfowfd^y' 11 ! S £ h k V?
the SiJHtflfSfis Ul i? othei : attra °S“ S o 5
seems to be a hundred" eVerybody
ihe William Knox widow has sold off the
furniture and is handing a grandchild or so
over to their lonely mother in England V
CoTd C°omi“y°f hS t 0 ffll the —<£
Mrs. Eric Russell, who belongs to Toorak
when not squatting at Ballarat has gone to
Maoriland to re-claim her numerous kinsfolk
and miss the summer here. She used to be
one of the Amuri Rutherfords, who have done
a deal of horse and sheep raising—when not
hunting the hare. ot
The Russell Grimwade pair have dumped
their swags at Frankston, and are taking
salt breezes in Brigadier-General Harold
Grimwade s summer palace. The General
is doing his bit in England after a scurry in
* ranee. IBs wife and girleen Gwenda keep
as near him as his military duties allow.
“Dicky” Adamson, headmaster of Weslev
was as unusual as usual at the recent
speech-night ’ of his beloved college The
school kid nowadays is often a pasty-faced
long-legged, gangling, pimply object, with
an exteiioi appearance which tells a mourn-
ful tale of a flabby interior. This is the
Adamsonian explanation:—
In too many cases the Saturday afternoon, whether
wet or fine, is spent in the well-breathed atmosohere
ot a picture-theatre, instead of in the open air Too
many evenings are spent in the same way. Easy enter-
tainment, requiring no mental exertion, is becoming
more and more the fashion. The supply of pictures
seems to be almost entirely American, and while the
American stage plays acted have almost invariably
reflected the chivalrous attitude of the better-class
American to his womankind, American picture-plays
seem to cater for an entirely different audience.
Adamson throws an unpleasant picture on
the screen— of a pale, anaemic lad sitting in
germy darkness on a sunny day, probably
crunching peanuts or chewing gum, while
with popping eyes he gloats over the spec-
tacle of a perfect lady, owning an immense
bust and a large, passionate, Cupid’s-bow
mouth,. galloping gaily to destruction in a
succession of dizzy reels. It is a disagree-
able picture.
The Norman Wilsons’ second chick, Mar-
jorie, has been having an anxious time. Her
soldier husband acquired malignant malaria
in Salonika. The little wife at latest was
praying for hubby to be invalided to the
Cold Land as a tonic.
I carelessly planted C. J. Dennis at Tal-
langatta last week, and hasten to return
him to his proper locality. The poet can be
found any day hitting a typewriter on a
tree-stump at Toolangi, a gum-infested
haunt in the neighborhood of Healesville.
The inauguration of the Daylight Saving
scheme gave a shock of alarm to the theatri-
cal and picture showmen. They didn’t get
the expected New Year’s Night crowds, and
they drew sad conclusions from the falling
away. Allan Wilkie was so upset that he
promptly decided to take off “Richard III.”
and revive “As You Like It,” because it is
an out-of doors play with nothing but day-
light in its atmosphere.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—Still going strong
s-Mk x
1 £
Vi
%\ y
m
K?S
n
4T
%
I
-rah
T! h O/S*
"£
»^r>
J2H
£
//T^K';
L
V
r
a
l
o
w
J-
L
~ = -.\*''H*/r»ir'
r-
•A
\
n
9
S§
V
f/ 46
E
m
M/
9
/:
>v, •
v \ /
Q \-v^
"Everything comes to him who waits."
"That may be, but I’m not going to wait any longer for
my drop of ‘Johnnie Walker’—ring the bell."
JOHN WALKER & SON, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND


THE
<\ONA
i'Jas
_ : V - s- -■
r srfSsssefci
- 5 -
gy
fssa?
as?
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £630,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgrate, e.C.
ABSOLUTELY IT
King
> IV
» WHISKY
»♦
IheXOP-NOICH "Scotch
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE GIVE-AWAY.
“By Jove, she's a little peach."
“She is. Always peaching on somebody."
“Rab Cilbup”: When a stockman cracks
a whip, what makes the crack? What does the whip
hit? If it hits air, why should the air make a
noise about it, especially that sort of noise? In what
position is the cracker on the whip just before and
at the moment of cracking, straight or curved ?
Finally, why should a whip crack better with a
cracker ?
“McNorth” : North Australian aborigines,
after wrapping the dear departed in tea-tree bark,
usually carry him about for months before deposit-
ing him. I have more than once dropped across a
buck carrying a parcel whose odor betrayed its con-
tents. When burial does eventually happen the
bones are placed in a sitting position in a shallow
hole and lightly covered with sand. For a reason
which I have never been able to fathom, a roughly-
built platform supported by four sticks is built
over the grave. Some dreadful burials happen at
times in the faraway places. When Jim Kane, good
prospector and better white man, threw the seven on
the upper reaches of the Mambare River (Papua),
seven days of rough mountain travel from the coast,
an orthodox coffin was out of the question. So a
cylindrical sheet of bark was obtained and held open
while the deceased’s mates gently placed him in its
smooth interior. The bark was then lashed round
with lawyer-cane and the ends stuffed up with grass.
The sorrowing mates carried their burden to a grave
they had dug on the steep hillside, and found it
half-full of water. Just as they were carefully
getting the coffin into position, with one end over the
grave, the man carrying the far end slipped on a
moss-covered stone. His end of the coffin flew up, the
grass came away off the lower end, and the dead man
slid out and went with a splash into his resting-
place.
# * * *
“Condamine”: There is another timber
that is not valued at more than a fraction of its
worth, seemingly because it is an Australian. This
is the sassafras. It grows plentifully in the deep
valleys amongst the Gippsland mountains, and re-
sembles a pine in shape. The wood takes a good
polish, and has a very agreeable scent, which it never
loses. The leaves are said to possess great medicinal
properties, and campers in sassafras gullies usually
put a few in the billy along with the tea for the
peculiar flavor they give it. Some years ago I read
that the timber had been proved a success for making
bike wheel-rims, but nothing further seems to have
been done. The bark and leaves are carried by
many a prospector in his “port” to keep the contents
healthy and sweet-smelling.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: The incident occurred on the
South Coast of N. S. Wales, when the virgin forest
teemed with wild life. A rail-splitter killed a
large diamond snake on a rocky hill. Next day
another diamond snake was found coiled on top of
the departed. It was killed also. A few days
afterwards two more of the family were found coiled
about the bodies, and the locals considered that
now the supply of mourners was exhausted. But it
was not so. Three more snakes were killed under
the same circumstances. The diamond usually
deposits its soft-shelled eggs in hollow logs or hol-
lows of trees, and whole families are occasionally
(but rarely) discovered. In the early days, when
the now übiquitous rabbit was not, these harmless
snakes were usually destroyed at sight. Now the
diamond, much depleted in numbers by bush 'fires
and confined in habitat to the south-eastern coast of
Australia, is recognised as a natural enemy of the
rabbit and is therefore spared by sensible people.
The species is very commonly confounded with the
carpet snake, a much more sluggish reptile which
has a far wider range. Scientists aver that the
carpet snake ( Python spilotes variegata ) is a mere
color-variation of the diamond snake (Python
spilotes) ; yet the former attains a far greater size.
NO ANGELS NEED APPLY.
BOSS ( interviewing prospective
office boy): “Smoke?”
P.O.B.: “No, Sir.”
B.: “Swear?”
P.O.B.: “No, Sir.”
B.: “Ever tell lies?”
P.O.B.: “No, Sir,”
B.: “Read Deadwood Dicks?”
P.O.B.: “No, Sir.”
BOSS: “You misunderstood the
advertisement, my young friend.
I wanted a boy.”
“Eddyson”: Gus. Petberick’s wife was a
short, -round, black-eyed, energetic woman who spent
all the time she could spare in strenuous quest of
Petherick. Gus had made a modest competence on
one of the rushes, and was now settled at Clunes in
a weatherboard house on an abrupt hill, with a
slope of garden before the front door and a sudden
rise at the back. Here he spent his days in tillage,
his chief object in life being evasion of the keen
edge of mother Petherick's tongue. He would sit
by the hour like a rabbit, hidden among the thick
gooseberry bushes, merely to avoid arguments. “She
nags wakin’ ’n’ she nags sleepin’,” Petherick said,
with a sort of bovine patience. “The worst iv it
is there ain’t never any variety in her naggin’. What
she starts with in the mornin’ she keeps up all day,
’n’, Gor bless us all, it does get a bit wearisome ’long
about tea-time. All the interest I get out iv it ever
is wonderin’ first thing what she’s a-goin’ t’ start
with. If she wakes first I don’t even get a chanst
t’ wonder.” One afternoon when I looked in on
the old boy I found him, pick in hand, working at
the hill almost at his back door, where it had been
necessary to cut the slope away to provide egress.
Gus had opened out a tunnel. “Coin’ t’ gouge out a
bit iv a dairy,” he said. “It’s the missus’s sermon
fer the day.” Petherick worked at that tunnel like
an old Trojan. He put it in about sft., opened
out to a chamber, and provided a little furniture and,
a wood stove, with the pipe directed out through
a bore-hole in the roof. At the entrance he rigged
a thick door of double slabs packed with sawdust.
He had created a substantial prison-house. It was
finished when I next called, and Petherick popped
his head out of the dairy door and beckoned me
in. He closed the door after me, and propped it.
A bright fire was crackling in the stove. The day
was wet and cold. Gus chuckled and rubbed his
hands. “Cosy, ain’t she?” he said. Then, nodding
towards the house: “ ’Er text fer the day is leavin’
muddy boots under the bed.” He spread his hands
to the fire and winked knowingly. “Matter iv fact,”
he whispered, “this ain’t no dairy. ’Tween you ’n’
me, boy, a married man’s gotter have a bit iv a
place where he can be by hisself odd times, ’n’ in
the winter months he can’t always be creepin’ under
the gooseb’ry bushes—-not comfortable, he can’t.”
•He chuckled again and winked, and. . . .the chamber
was filling with smoke! “Good lor’, look et that,”
wailed Petherick. “She’s bin ’n’ stopped up me flue !”
I dragged Gus into the open, almost a done man.
A week later I met him in the town. He was look-
ing very dour. “Hello, Petherick!” I said, “been
taking your ease in the dairy lately?” “No,” he
answered sullenly. “I take my ease in the bedroom
now —on the best bed, with me blessed boots on.
The worm’s turned. When it comes t’ chokin’, worms
turn. I ain’t unreasonable, mind yeh; I’m ez
reasonable a minded man as there is. 'I lets her nag
fer one hour a day, fair V square, but when she
goes over that I claps her in the dairy.” He hobbled
on a few steps, turned and shook his stick fiercely.
“I’ve ’eard all I wanter ’ear about snorin’ fer one
day,” said he. “She’s dam’ well in there now!”
“The Hum” : At W. L. Brockman’s home-
stead on the Warren River (W.A.) there is a pear-
tree that should easily establish a record for Aus-
tralia. It is 60 years old, and the butt is Bft. 4in.
in circumference! It has yielded over two tons of
fruit in one season, and is still bearing, though the
fruit is not so juicy as it was in the younger days
of the shrub.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: John Chinaman, includes
strange edibles in his menu. During a severe drought
some new-born c'alves were killed at a station on
which a party of Chinese fencing contractors were
at work, and one of the bodies was well salted with
strychnine to entrap the wary warrigal. Later on
the dingo-poisoners found that the bait had dis-
appeared, and inquiry at the Celestials’ camp elicited
the fact that the poisoned meat was already well
on its way to conversion : into a most savory stew.
He spoilt a boshter funeral. The savory but abnor-
mally tough mutton-fish, is another favorite article of
diet with Celestials ; so is the savage and extraordi-
narily venturesome green eel common on rocky fish-
ing grounds. Writer once, in endeavoring to detach
a mutton-fish from a rock, tore the shell off its
back, leaving only a bare mass of white flesh. But
before the prize could be landed a big green eel
dashed in and grabbed the choice morsel and wriggled
off in triumph and a cloud of language.
* * * *
“Gobba^Gobba”: Re queer coffins. The
North Queensland Meat Export Co. got an advt. when
Jack Cusack died on Woodlark Island (Papua). No
other available timber being handy, a wooden over-
coat was constructed of meat cases. The top read:
“Prime N.Q.M.E. Oxford Sausage.”
“MarloO”: When the North Coast
(N.S.W.) Co. was about to erect a butter-factory at
South Murwillumbah a divining-rod manipulator was
called in to locate fresh water, the Tweed there
being salt. What he got on to turned out to be an
underground river which flows beneath the co.’s
land and empties itself into the Tweed at a known
spot beneath water-level. If a rod expert gets
a rush of energy some day he might trace
the subterranean stream to its source. Nobody so
far has any idea where it is. Anybody know of a
similar river on the coastal side of the Dividing
- Range?
(Continued on page 24.)
KOWHAI FLOWERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the kowhais flower in Maoriland, there are
always heavy rains. The floods which follow are
called the “Kowhai floods.”
Long ago, ere you and I were
Crowing ’neath our cradle covers,
It is said, the Earth and Sky were
Warm and radiant royal lovers.
Ere the rough winds rushed betweeri them
Or the bold sun mocked their faces
(Oh ! the white stars strove to screen them
From the Spy of Dawn, who paces,
Silent-footed, down the shadows
With a lidded eye that glowers),
Earth and Sky met in the meadows
When there were no kowhai flowers.
By the winds the tale was carried,
While the night seas roared with laughter-
“ Earth and Sky have wooed and married,
Ask the gods what cometh after.”
But the gods sent swords from Heaven,
Sabres stained with awful slaughters,
And the sky afar was driven
While Earth wept beside her waters.
From her grief and love impassioned,
Brooding in her ravished bowers,
In her loneliness, she fashioned
Golden-hearted kowhai flowers.
Came her maidens, filled with wonder,
Far and wide the blooms they scattered,
Where the mountains mocked the thunder,
Where the spray the rainbow flattered.
There were rustlings in the rivers
That are Earth and Sky's true daughters,
Where the gleam of starlight quivers
There were whisperings of waters.
* From the clouds came brimming measure,
Tears that fell in silver showers ;
“Let us touch,” they said, “Earth’s treasure ;
Let us kiss her kowhai flowers.”
Once a year the grey sky hovers
Over Earth’s green-mantled shoulder
As might one, most loved of lovers,
Boldness show, yet might be bolder.
Happy Earth spreads wealth of color
Over hill and plain and gully ;
Blooms no darkling wind makes duller,
Golden clusters nought can sully.
Oh ! In gallant, country fashion
Comes her lover at the hour,
And the waters wake to passion,
For the kowhais are in flower.
MAORI LAND.
WILL LAWSON.


They are A 1 Suits
for Summer Days!
That’s the verdict of men who wear them —men who ought to know.
Why not prove it yourself ?
A
Murdock’s
Palm Beach
Sports Suits
are nobby Suits for Summer
days—made from the famous
Palm Beach Cloth —a light-
weight fabric that wears and
washes well —always looks
dressy and attractive. Made
in popular sports style with
yoke and half belt at back.
• Trousers have turn-
up bottoms. Plain
Biscuit shade ...
39
6
In Hairline Chocolate stripe—
also Black-and-white stripe
45/-
Yes, we have yonr size—come and be fitted to-day.
waist, sleeve and inside-leg measurements to Desk R
Send height, chest,
if unable to call.
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
“Where the GOOD Hats are ,
“Soda Fountains”
Something GOOD 8 CHEAP for the Economical Buyers
ns
—
-
■
We quote this Handsome, Silver-plated Standard, with two double-stream
Draft Arms, Art Glass Shade with beaded fringe, electric light fittings ready to
place on the counter, £l5/10/-
Automatic Pumps, which measure the right quantity of Syrup foi each glass,
from £2/5/- each.
We supply everything for the Soda Fountain trade.
CARBONATORS :—We have all kinds. Rocking Cylinders, Hand Pump Car-
bonators. electric automatic Machines, Water-power automatic Carbonatois.
We can fit you up quickly and thoroughly at the lowest prices in Australia.
We are manufacturers with 25 years’ experience
in the line, and know what you require .
SUPPLlES: —Essences, Fruit Juices, Spoons, Straws, Ice Cream Servers,
Soda Fountain glassware at lower prices than any other house in Australia.
Be SURE to get our quotation before placing business elsewhere, and save
money.
NELSON'S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE : F. H. Mogg, Preston House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
PERTH: A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
NEW ZEALAND: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets, Wellington.
*
&
Mitchell climbs the Blue Mountains
on HIGH GEAR at 234 miles per gallon
Think of it —a climb of 3495 feet up the Blue
Mountains to Jenolan Caves from Sydney and back
on December 17, -by a stock Mitchell Six, with a
full load of five passengers and the gear-lever sealed
in high gear!
What a trying test of the mechanism of the
Mitchell! And what a triumph—what an indis-
putable proof of the unequalled efficiency of the
Mitchell!
This remarkable climb on high gear has not been
paralleled in Australia —possibly not in the world.
The benzine consumption for such an ordeal was
extremely low, averaging 23J miles to the gallon.
Union Red Line Benzine was used for the trip.
The most precipitous roads of the Mountains—
the sharply-ascending Lapstone Hill, the Whipcord
Hill, the Mount Victoria Pass, the five-mile hill
up from Jenolan Caves to Mount Victoria were
all conquered with ease on the high gear.
There was no laboring when the Mitchell entered
on the steepest grades—no harsh grating of gear-
wheels —no throbbing, vibrating protest like that of
most other cars when ascending hills.
Silently, smoothly, powerfully, the Mitchell went
up—and the mountains melted away before it.
Light Six; with Simms’ magneto ignition ; 120-
inch wheelbase ; 50-inch cantilever springs ; engine-
driven tyre-pump ; complete equipment.
Write for full particulars of'this master car.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
“We, the undersigned, of Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that we
witnessed on December 16, 1916, the sealing of a Stock
1917 Light Model, Six-Cylinder ‘Mitchell’ Car in high gear
The Gear Lever was sealed in such manner that it could
not be taken out of high gear and put in any other gear
Five=passenger, £435. Single=seater £415.
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland: F. H. GORDON & CO., 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Agents for Victoria and
Tasmania: JAS. A MUNRO & CO., 493-503 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. Agents for South Australia: ORCHARD RALPH & CO.,
Victoria Street, Adelaide. Agents for West Australia: BRADLEY & WILLIAMS, 853-857 Hay Street, Perth. Agents for New
Zealand: North Island—lNGLlS BROS., Wellington; South Island —HAMLET & TENCH, 166 Tuam Street, Christchurch.
without breaking- the seals. We also witnessed the sealing
of the Petrol Tank and connections, after 14 gallons of
Benzine had been put into the tank.
“On December 17 we examined the Seals on ‘Mitchell’
Car after it had completed a journey on which Mr. C. S.
Clancy, of the Sun newspaper, acted”as observer for' us", to
the Jenolan Caves and back to Sydney. The distance’ in
miles covered was 233. We found the'Seals on both Gear
Lever and Petrol Tank intact. In our presence the Seals*
were broken and the Petrol Tank drained. We found the
Tank still contained four gallons and half a pint of Benzine
The consumption for the trip was 23J miles per gallon",
and the ‘Mitchell’ did the whole journey on high gear. ’
“And we make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true and by virtue of the pro-
visions of the Oaths Act 1900.—C.” S. CLANCY Siik •
W. S, KNOWLES, Farmer and Settler ; W. G ’ RFID*
Australian Motoiust; BEDE CARROLL, Sunday ' Times •’
11. E. HAYNES, Newsletter.
“Subscribed and declared at Sydney this 20tli day of
December, one thousand nine hundred and sixteen before
me, W. 11. CORDEAUX, J.P.” ’ 61016


“A contented mind is a continual feast” —you get
both when you drink Martell’s Brandy. There are
no better judges than Britons, and they decide in
favor of Martell’s every time. From George I. to
George V. Martell’s has been supreme—not only the
favorite in England but in France as well. It is
superior for social purposes, and being rich in the
higher ethers is also unequalled in cases of sick-
ness.
MARTELL’S BRANDY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [1
CHRISTIE 3
SPECIALSe
TWO
L/HES
S
0
&
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
1C /iONTER ST NEWCASTLE
1
s
ZAX*;TIO entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
GREAT DANGER OF INSECT BITES.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by Using NEV-A-BITE.
A Preparation of Proved Effectiveness.
“There is no question,” says a leading specialist,
“that insect bites may lead to great danger to
health, and have been known to end fatally.”
f
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
- It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect bite
might set up such
serious inflamma-
tion as to cause blood-poisoning, and —as every-
one well knows —blood-poisoning may lead to
even the amputation of a limb.
The best form of treatment of mosquito
bites is prophylactic or preventive. The appli-
cation of a little of the NEV-A-BITE
lotion reduces the probability of mosquito bites
to a minimum.
NEV-A-BITE is a perfectly harmless
preparation, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
if NEV-A-BITE is unobtainable from
your local supplier, send 1/2 in stamps to one
of the following, viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney,
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [2
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11, Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
How I Darkened My
Grey Hair.
Lady Gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years I tried to restore my grey hair
to its natural color with the prepared dyes
and stains, but none of them gave satisfac-
tion and they were all expensive. I finally
came across a simple recipe which I mixed
at home that gives wonderful results. I
gave the recipe, which is as follows, to a
number of my friends, and they are all
delighted with it. To 7oz. of water add a
small box of Orlex Compound and loz. of
bay rum. These ingredients can be bought
at any chemist’s at very little cost. Use
every other day until the hair becomes the
required shade. It will not only darken
the grey hair but removes dandruff and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not sticky or
the —A dvt. *l5
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH —
300-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“Barcoo” : The most difficult undertaking
of the overlander is the swimming of his herd over
swollen rivers. Great experience, care and intre-
pidity must be shown by the man in charge, for
once allow the string of beasts to break and they
will begin to “ring” in the water. Then loss is
SEEKING EXPERT OPINION.
THE NIPPER: “Say, Mister, do I look orl-
right? There’s a tart o’ mine cornin’
round the corner.”
certain unless the stockman and a good horse can
come at the mob from the down-side and straighten
their heads towards the landing. Special care is
displayed by the man who knows his profession to
pick a landing-place where the banks slope into the
stream. Big losses have been made by greenhorns
not taking this precaution. A few years ago one
of them put 2000 bullocks into water where the
get-out had an abrupt bank. All went well till the
mob began to take off in big batches, and half the
animals were in the wide Georgiana and jambed
against the opposite bank. The stockmen failed to
break them and 280 were drowned. An experienced
drover would have strung his cattle into the water.
Sheep will swim quite as well as cattle, but if in
running water great difficulty is experienced in keep-
ing them up stream. It is necessary to have two
or three strong swimmers to keep their heads straight.
“Pick” : Fantods or not, it is nevertheless
a fixed belief among drovers and teamsters that at
Hewitt’s Crossing, on the Bogan, camped animals
invariably stampede at night. Travelling mobs
scatter madly without apparent cause; even stodgy
old working bullocks have been known to bolt for
miles, and dogs will come cowering and whimpering
into the tents. This is so widely accepted that, not-
withstanding its excellent watering facilities, the
Crossing is shunned as a camping ground. By the
way, the ford got its name from a long-past
tragedy. In the ’6o’s a traveller named Hewitt, who
was camped there with mates, arose at night to head
back his wandering horses. He never returned, and
after days of waiting and searching his mates went
on. Many months later the skeleton of Hewitt was
found with a rusty butcher’s knife between the ribs.
“Ruby Gill” : Among the abos. every man
strove to express himself in the same way—-by
making a corroboree. The weird, barbaric Woygen
loved the gorgeous pageant of a sunset. As the clouds
rolled back, turning from gold to vivid purple, and
deepening to blood-red, he
saw the trophies of a mighty
hunt whereon the tribes might
feast for a week, and his cor-
roboree was made. He who
was funmaker, uproarious
laugh-maker and low comedian
was called Coralbyn. It is
little to our credit that bis
masterpiece should -have been
a farce depicting the drinking
habits of the whites from the
moment when, with a “Here’s
to you” the glasses clinked till
the boozed lay senseless on the
road. A well-known figure was
Mad Finigan, who won for
himself a unique position in
aboriginal drama. To the
skill of the playwright he
added that of the scenic artist,
carving from bark life-like
figures of birds and animals,
and with clay from the creeks
giving them a semblance of
their natural colors. These
he would dispose, as those who
saw his corroborees have testi-
fied, in a most artistic manner.
Georgie Quartpot—no one le-
members his real name now
was the poet of the N.S.W.
Coast tribes. His plots were
laid in the fields of romance.
He loved a lover with the
rest of the world, and all
his heroes were “sentimental
blokes.” He watched the
parent birds and their young,
and what he learned from
their tender idylls he strove
to apply to human life. In
his Betrothal Corroboree the
males and females faced each
other. Then one of the latter
wandered forth, and as she
went she trolled a melody.
This was the sign that her
man was to follow her. She
was ready for love, but in ro
other way was she prepared to
show it. Sweet as some flower
of night, hers was the right
to be wooed and won. Who
could deny it, when she had
before her the example set by the ladies of the
feathered world? When the wooer with his wooing
had gone far enough, as archly as any civilised
flapper she squeezed his hand! Then together they
sang:—-
Mah rahl go wung-i nung yah
Yengora bil-go ni-oh !
(You and I together will go away!) And beyond
the firelight, their voices wafting back on the night
breeze, they would pass into the dark.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: “Brook-lime,” or hyssop
{ffratiola), is not uncommonly found growing in
the beds of creeks and watercourses in the temperate
climates of Australia. Of this bushmen concoct a
remedy calculated to electrify the dead. The plant
(leaves and stalks) is boiled, and the liquor mixed
with Epsom salts. Dose, a wineglassful or more.
The herb was once used by the chemist, but has
long since ceased to be “official” in the pharma-
copoeia, like many other “simples.” In appearance
brook-lime resembles watercress, but the stems are
longer, and it doesn’t choke the stream. After tak-
ing a sample the patient becomes conscious of a
species of internal earthquake, and his unwonted
activity surprises his family and friends. A blissful
calm, however, succeeds the storm, and he emerges
from the ordeal in that temper of body and mind
which lures men into lending £1 notes to absolute
and utterly untrustworthy strangers.
“Jobber” : The best way I know to deal
with bracken and blackberry is to brush ’em, burn
’em, plough like blazes and whip in a crop of spuds
before the curses get their second wind.
“Haka” : The pakeha doesn’t have all his
own way on the shearing board in Maoriland. The
other day at the Puha Tiko Tiko shed, up Poverty
Bay way, eight of the native breed undressed 1801
jumbucks in eight hours 30 minutes, and they
weren’t barebelly ewes either, but mostly big
wrinkly wethers. Here is the interesting tally:
Heriwine Rapana, 270 ; Peta Rapana, 268; Wainui
Teepa, 249 ; Huru Stevens, 232 ; Hata Stevens, 212 ;
Hoera K*ewa, 196; and te trummer and his mate,
374 between them.
w *
“Gham”: 'Re shearing tallies (B.
10/11/’l6). On Hazelwood station, which has just
cut out, eight shearers on one day put through 1707
crossbred ewes and lambs. Average, 213. Scoring:
Ringer Gosden, 252; Fox, 250; Hamilton, 242;
Carter, 214 ; Jim Arentz, 200 ; Jack Arentz, 188
Letounder, 182; Nash, 179. Is this a N. S.'Wales
or Australian record? At Gulgo shed, Forbes, nine
men robbed 1835 complete suits. The three best
were Norton 254, Larkin 232, and Gates 231. Abo-
liars may have heard of Kimo shed, Gundagai, where
19 men put through 14,600 in a week, and in one
day 3470.
* * * *
A Casterton (Vic.) man swears to it. An
old working bullock was lying peacefully alongside
the road chewing its cud, more than half-asleep, and
coiled round its horns and head was a black snake
about 6ft. long.
“J.Z.R.”: Now you sheep men, have a
twist at this. How is it that a flock of stud Lin-
colns produce so many more culls than a harem of
merino aristocrats?
“Beeritus”: Allow me to prescribe for
broken knees and sore shoulders in horses, etc. Mix
one-eighth of kerosene, seven-eighths of lard and a
teaspoonful of salt. Wash the wound daily with a
weak solution of Condy’s and apply the ointment.
No scar will remain and the hair will grow as
thickly as ever. I used it on a racehorse which
had been, galloped on in a race. He was stripped
from hock to pastern, leaving the tendon exposed.
Six weeks' treatment effected a complete cure, leav-
ing no marks whatever.
* * * *
“Bob D.”: A chap named Bergen, who
leased the once-infamous Berrima Gaol after its
demise as a penal establishment, and converted it
into a factory, used the flesh of the bunny for a
potted meat, sold the skins, converted the entrails
into garden manure, pounded the bones into fowl
food and fertiliser, and sent the tails to Germany
to be used as the manes and tails of wooden horses
for the kids. He and his family worked the plant.
“Starlight’s” cell was the storeroom; the kitchen
was in the old gallo.ws shed.
A BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
REBECCA: “It is Solomon’s birthday to-day, Ikey—vot you giving him for a present?”
ISAAC : “Oh, I think ve clean der vindows, und let ’im look at der trams.”
“JIGGER.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a fellow’s thoughts get dwelling on the trite
fact that Time flies—
When he joys in looking backward, I suppose it
signifies
That his Youth’s somewhere behind him, and he’s
middle-aged at last;
For all Youth’s domain’s the Future, while the Old
have but the Past!
These and other sad reflections, shared alike by sage
and fool,
Haunt me most when I remember smoking “jigger”
after school.
It was in the timber country, and we had some
miles to go,
Past old farms and belts of forest where the winter
fogs hung low,
Paddling barefoot through the puddles, through the
slush that used to freeze
Where the road lay all the winter in the shadow of
the trees.
When the brief day turned to twilight, as its last
wan hours were spent,
We would warm our reddened noses puffing “jigger”
as we went!
Where a cutting in the hillside left the roots exposed
to view
Of the dead stumps by the roadside, there our
“jigger” harvest “grew.”
Straight and dry, the blackbutt rootlets were the
better sort by far,
And a piece the right dimensions made a natural
cigar.
Pround we were of simple triumphs as we did the
“drawback” then,
Blowing clouds like seasoned smokers —for we
reckoned we were men!
When our careful mothers, hunting through our
clothes for hole or tear,
Came across a “jigger” bumper—well, we rued it
then and there ;
And we didn’t like the system our respective fathers
had,
Which allowed us to be walloped by the other
fellow’s Dad !
(“If you ketch young Billy smokin’,” mine, would
say to Jimmy Dean’s,
“Just you ‘hide’ him good and proper, just you give
the beggar beans!”)
But parental disapproval didn’t keep us from our
bent,
And the fear of “Yaller jarnders” turned out just,
as impotent.
I have smoked a lot since those days, pipe, cigar
and cigarette,
But my mem’ry lingers fondly with that school-time
smoking yet.
Then it was a Great Adventure, fraught with pen-
alties and pain ;
To a Promised Land it lured us, and its lure was
not in vain.
Then ’twas new, and ’twas forbidden; nowadays it’s
not the same—-
It is just a daily habit use makes commonplace and
tame.
And at times I find I’m wishing I were back again
once more
In the old, barefooted school-days, smoking “jigger”
as of yore!
N.S.W.
ULOOLA.


eh
:
t
I
w
■
m
*■
m
i a
w
:'*-V
00**"**"'
HE
tfl*:
m
. >•■: : ■-a
. .
'•Tv
rv
;
m
M
£
v
J-
£
Carry On ?-ratßer,
wit£ “S/a/e Cxpress'
f F good tobacco and good
* workmanship count for
anything, you have it in State
Express Cigarettes. The Naval
Man says so and he knows.
SWtgPI*SS
CIGARETTES
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
N°:333
STANDARD
WEIGHT
lO for 6d.
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable at all
Higb-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON,
Britain’s Greatest High-class Cigarette and Tobacco Factories.


THe Greatest Engine Value
■ -J
in Australia
i The COOPER Engine
is known throughout the length and breadth of Australia for
its great wearing qualities, its good, substantial power, and
its ease of operation.
Manv of them have been in use for 10 years and cost less than ten
shillings for repairs. Both the material and workmanship throughout are
the best that money can produce. This sterling quality of construction
and efficiency has created a demand for Cooper Engines that enables us to
produce and deliver them to you at a price at least 2d per cent, less than
any other engine in the same class.
This 4-Brake Horse-power Cooper at £BO is an example of the wonder-
ful combination of “Quality and Price” we can offer you. It is powerfully
constructed, fitted with fuel pumps, built-in magneto, and the highest
quality attachments. Cylinder and valve chambers have ample watei-
jackets, and the large water-tank keeps it cool in any climate. 1 nyone
can start and run it without difficulty.
It is unconditionally guaranteed to give satisfaction. If you require an
engine, write us full particulars of your work, and we will quote you an
outfit to suit your requirements.
r'OOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED
134 Sussex Street, Sydney, 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Australasian Implement and House Furnishing Company, Adelaide, S.A.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
If wo were only as careful about humans
as we are about liens, what a race we would
be ! And how we would make the feathers
fly! Nine-tenths of the real job of the
poultry-farmer is to find out which hens are
slackers ; for that means not only a saving
in the feed bill, since the dilatory ladies
promptly go to the pot, hut a lessening of
the chances of producing a poor strain. In
the up-to-date hennery the daily performance
of every lady who is suspected of being good
enough to be kept as a mother is posted
upon her door; and a solemn deputation
waited the other day on Adamson, Vic. Min-
ister for White Leghorns, and urged him,
before the Kaiser finds out what we are up
to, to put every fowl in the public tests at
Burnley under the same personal, super-
vision. At present the ladies are in com-
munes of six, and a German spy among
them may do her bit by laying nothing
and spoiling the record of the whole
commune. She may even lead five respect-
able, hard-working females to entirely unde-
served execution. While Adamson is think-
ing about this reform a dozen ribald people
are laughing. Yet this paper has a firm con-
viction that if the rest of Australia worked
on as sound lines as its hen-growers it would
be a bit mor'e for’ard than it is.
* * *- *
“Edo.”: Bulletin statements(3o/11/’l6)
about the waste of stores, etc., at Canberra,
call for the remark that • if minor officials
were less under superiors’ thumbs, there
would be less cheating and blundering in
Government departments. In most Govern-
ment-owned concerns documents relating to
expenditure of money and distribution of
stores have to be countersigned by a junior
after this man’s boss has certified to their
correctness. That system is a rotten one.
I helped run a Westralian Outback concern
at which transactions were fairly large.
When my signature was needed I was never
asked for it till about five minutes before
mail-time. Eventually I discovered that my
boss’s groceries, furniture, etc., were being
invoiced to Government as tar, cement, bags
of lime and the like. Next time he wanted
my signature in haste, I declined to hurry,
on the ground that I wanted to make sure
that his arithmetic was quite correct. We
missed that mail, and I really believe that
for a while there was no wholesale cheating,
excepting in the pay-sheet, on which he put
three relatives down for time and a half
when they did not loaf the full hours. How-
ever, a couple of months later, while I was
busv thinking out schemes for checking
things, a visiting inspector smilingly told me
that, as the department had too many men,
and I was not on the permanent staff, it
was necessary to retire me. I knew that the
inspector, had not given me the real reason
for what was really my dismissal; but what
could I do? Not a doubt of it some yarn had
been trumped up about laziness or ineffici-
ency on my part. Yet I was powerless.
-* * * *
“H.M.” : Very few are acquainted with the
colloquial geography of Sydney. Poverty
Point used to be the corner of Castlereagh
and King streets, and though it has had fluc-
tuations has been for years opposite the
Criteron Theatre, Park and Pitt streets. The
Great Australian Bight is on the other side
of George-street between the Town Hall and
Market-street. The Bay of Biscay is George-
street between Ilaymarket and the Railway,
where there are many pubberies. The Water
Police Court is the Cooler. Among pubs
there is the Gluepot (King’s Head), the
Bobby (Oxford, because of the lobbying done
there), and the Quorum (Assembly, handy
to Parliament, which is raided when a
quorum cannot be obtained elsewhere). The
’Ole in the Wall, W.vnyard-lane, is the title
of a portion of another pub which Oscar
Asclie’s mother kept for years. There used
to be another Hole in the Wall in Castle-
reagh-street, a pie and coffee emporium, now
defunct. The best-known pie-palace in the
city to-day is the Cafe de Fairfax, standing
by the S. M. Herald. #
“Marloo”: When we learn how to make
gloves the flying-fox pest will cease to cause
us anxiety. I have seen the skin of the
winged rat tanned and dressed by Mr.
Broomham, of Willoughby, Sydney, and he
says that the leather is just the thing for
making gloves, having the required strength
and stretch. A pair of wings makes 5ft. of
leather, and as the cheapest of fine leathers
brings Is. 3d. a square foot each fruit-thief
would be worth at least Gs. 3d. Even if we
couldn’t make hand-wraps in Australia we
could start getting together the raw material
against the time when the war will cease.
Then we could send it to the foreigner to
make up, cart the finished article back again,
and forward the cheque wherewith he could
found more cannons to play with. r lhen
we’d all be good friends again.
“Hopbooze”: A recent cattle-lifting ven-
ture. when 600 head were removed, and re-
captured after three weeks’ hard going, was
a feat of great daring. The raiders made
west, with the obvious intention of follow-
ing the track of the North-West monsoons,
their objective being the cattle country north
of Adelaide. On the monsoonal storms sweep-
ing down from the Territory the raiders’
chance of success depended. It was a great
gamble, and recalls an equally audacious
theft brought off in the late ’7o’s. Two way-
faring stockmen put to Mr. Chapman, mana-
ger of Auburn, Burnett district, a proposal
for recovering “scrubbers” running in the
outlying ranges. Their suggestion was that
the station should buy from them the car-
cases, the vendors of the meat retaining the
hides, then, hmvever, of little value, a penny
a lh. being the recognised return. The
original object of the men may have been
honest, but when confronted with the alter-
natives of rounding up the wild beasts or the
comparatively domesticated animals on an
adjoining holding, their good intentions went
overboard. The Auburn storekeeper accepted
the beef in good faith, and all went well
until the return of the head-stockman of the
other property from a holiday. He wanted
to know the meaning of the rounding-up, and
by the time he had finished pushing his in-
quiries a couple of enterprising lads were
commencing a 10 years’ rumination on their
hard luck. # #
“Bad Australian”: Competition for South
Aiherican shipping business between Uncle
Sam and Nippon grows keener every day.
Sam has just put another fleet of freighters
in commission, and the Japs., not feeling
content with their West Coast business, now
want a cut at that of the Bast. The repre-
sentative of a Japanese shipping firm is at
present discussing preliminaries with the
Brazilian Government. The Japs, are also
trying to arrange an exchange of produce
between the two countries. This is all very
gratifying to the South American, as competi-
tion is certain to make a drop in freights,
but it is calculated to cause considerable
uneasiness among British shipping people,
who have managed hitherto to get away with
the heavy end of South American business
at highly remunerative rates.
* * * *
It isn’t always the gas meter. A family
living in a home secluded among fir-trees at
Elwood (Vic.) has had several serious dis-
agreements with the Gas Co. because of the
exceeding rapidity of the meter. 1 his pro-
gressive apparatus went right ahead with the
same passionate zeal whether the family was
at home or abroad. The family has a week-
end resort at Macedon, but the impossibility
of convincing the meter that gas was not
consumed in the Saturday-to-Monday inter-
vals provoked irritable interviews in the Gas
Co.’s office, and led to a trap being set for
the meter. The family led the meter to assume
that it had gone to Macedon. Then it re-
turned unexpectedly at 11 p.m., and found
gas flaring in three rooms, and a couple ot
tramps making the best use of the furniture.
At one Victorian seaside holiday resort
this Christinas a curious coincidence came
to light. At three different points, on three
different occasions, a small boy had been
gallantly rescued from drowning. The coinci-
dence lay in the fact that each time some
portion of the discarded wardrobe of the
brave rescuers had been stolen. Those
articles of wearing apparel that had not
been stolen had been rifled of money and
all articles of value. At this stage it was
decided to make a collection of the rescued
boys, and forthwith the coincidence deep-
ened. He was only one hoy. But the man
who had given him a shilling to fall into
the sea had already absented himself with
marked circumspection.
The Port Melbourne constable had ex-
plained the spotting of the impudent chicken
thief, and his capture red-handed in the
fowlhouse, with the stolen goods upon him.
“What did lie say?” asked the Court. “I
said ‘Them’s not your chickens,’ ” said the
officer, “and, said he, disgusted-like: ‘Why
didn’t you say so before I put ’em in the
bag?’ ”
* * * *
“Will A.” : The recent I.W.W. trial and
the long grass of a good year have caused
Cocky to develop an imagination; so, when
two swaaMes unrolled their blankets in
Temora (N.S.W.) and proclaimed them-
selves members of the rebellious clan, a
local fire-insurance agent was bombarded
with applications for policies. The anti-
climax came two days later when one of
the wild-eyed ones strolled into the agent s
office and coolly demanded a commission on
the new business. The agent burst into
hot speech and drove him out into the street,
where the Terror of the Paddocks drew Uis
pipe and set fire to some inferior tobacco.
“Jay Jay”: Before the war the greater
part of the world’s supply of potash came
from Germany. That supply having ceased,
the price of the article has soared skywards.
Yet our wool contains 5 per cent, and more
of potash salt. A small amount of this
is now being saved, but what is wrong
with recovering the lot? As the stuff is
used not only for chemical and manufactur-
ing industries but for artificial manures as
well, the demand here is bound to increase
enormously. Another hitherto neglected source
of potash' is the alunite got from alum
won at Mt. Buladelah (N.S.W.). Small
quantities of alunite have been exported to
Britain, but a mountain of it is available.
Have we got enough faith and enterprise to
move that mountain?
j. «. *
* * r
One of the Yankee experts who have come
over to help the Amalgamated Zinc get its
new electrolytic plant going has a yarn about
a flotation plant working at a mine in one
of the western States and surrounded by
desert and sage-brush. The Australian euca-
lyptus oil mostly used in the flotation pro-
cess came very expensive, so the manager
started experimenting with the useless-look-
ing sage-brush and found that he could get
all the oil he wanted out of it with a plant of
his own.
OUT OF IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a gathering of officers of the Department of
Oopazootics presentations were made to Messrs. Alpha
and Omega, who have retired on superannuation.—
Frequent news item.
Out of it!
Clear of the breadth and the length of it!
Out of the grind and the drift and the strength of
it!
Out of it —out of it all!
Done with it!
No more tO’ do with the work of it!
Cod! Old bones ache with the wrench and the jerk
of it! \
Out of it —done with it all!
Out of it!
Better young hands should have play in it.
We? We are old: we have ended our day in it.
Finished! We’re out of it all.
Out of it!
Shouldered away to the west of it,
Out of the wrack aud the rhythm and rest of it—
Out! Not a place in it all!
Out of it!
Only the ghosts of dead selves in it,
Wraiths that go haunting the orderly shelves of it.
Wraiths! We are dead to it all!
Out of it!
Yet it goes on without stop in it.
As to the sea is the tiniest drop in it,
So are we—out of it all!
N.S.W.
INVER G.


MA*O
Br.
m
liu
S/,9.
V/s
c
a
//>,
t
i
¥/.
v//.
m
'//.win
(JL
w<
m
or*
%
n
7.
/S
t
\u
m
V
iwm
V
m
ft*
IA
/S,
n
r
&
O
"7
n
N*
s.
ffcss
m
UjUJ’i
THE SULTAN FEASTS ALADDIN IN RETURN FOR HIS GIFTS OF B.T.H. MAZDA LAMPS.
Aladdin Series
No. 11.
sdf
‘Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE <Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Etd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Etd., Hay Street.
—Agents-
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullocli & Co., Ltd.. Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.


A. Saunders’ Morocco
Leather Motor Bag, newest
style, double handles, 15/6.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6,
THESE GOODS
POSTED FREE.
; 1 '3X3
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Dressing
Case, fitted with necessary conveniences.
Morocco Leather Case, 30/-; ditto, lady’s,
30/-. Other styles, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-,
25/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Real
Ebony Hair
Brush, finest-quality
..Bristles, 10/6.
Other designs, 13/6,
15/6, 20/-, 25/-
Write for
Illustrated
Catalog—
Post Free.
USEFUL GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Gent.’ s Military
real Ebony and best-quality Bristles ; 2
1 Cloth, 1 Hat Brush and Comb. In
25/-
Brush Set,
Hair Brushes,
Morocco Case,
UttWOTBjTOMMg
A. Saunders’ Smoker’s Set, comprising highly-polished,
Brass-mounted Tobacco Jar, Pipe Holder, Match Holder and Ash
Tray, Crystal Glass, 25/-. Copper-mounted, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Meat Carvers, selected Stag Handles,
hand-forged Sheffield Silver-steel Blade, in Velvet-lined Case, 307-
Other styles, 13/6, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-15 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’
Cloth Brush,
Nickel Silver,
richly embossed,
“Empire” design,
best-quality
Bristles, 10/6.
Write for
Illustrated
Catalog—
Post Free.
A. Saunders’ Writing Folio, straight-grain
Leather, fitted with every convenience, 207-
Other styles, 12/6, 15/6, 25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Pocket-
book, real Morocco Leather, Silver
Corners and Lock, fitted' with Book and
Pencil, 25/-. Others, 8/6, 10/6,
15/6, 20/-
A. Saunders’
Polished Oak, best
Cigar and Cigarette Cabinet,
Nickel Mounts, with partition for Cig'ars
and Cigarettes, 25/-
CURES ECZEMA.
Edewyl, Hannell Street, Wickham, 13/7 /’ 16. Mr.
S. Fielder, Randwick. Dear Sir,—lt is. with a feel-
ing of df'ep gratitude that I write to tell you of the
relief I got from using your valuable remedy. I
have been suffering severely for some time with
Eczema. I got treatment from several chemists and
several patent medicines that were recommended to
me. They all failed to cure me. I was eventually
recommended to try your valuable Skin Cure. I got
relief after the first application, and now I am very
pleased to say completely cured. — Geo. Bailey.
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick.
£1
51-, 216
<r
$E
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit .
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRA T is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him*
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Meurie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Du.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump* Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
op the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art op Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases op Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
nr- bookseller to THE COMMONWEALTH.^*!
Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus- 1
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers-’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SW'Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAN
ISE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS; MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Busii Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key. to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Woks,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 pa. ted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-BoP IRS’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 p ted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 )}
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New El ra-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness anj Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large UnabJ pED
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather | Jhd,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guin| I?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos! and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal A., ist-
ant - and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, r loth
bound, 10/6 posted. Tiif, Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and Music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of ReasoiJ. by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
ggg a
R
y.<
s*;
wstmMimk-
mm
ItM:
' :i f
m
wm
IM
' *' "''. v 2 \
sqsss
Sw
m
»*.
Ijpfl
Si.?.*
Uomm
lIISh
f?
52fiS
pM
P®|
>4m.-wmmlp .4
’• /7 *V
sssm
.
«
•;- 8®
iSigfeis
IWfff
is**
-'■■’v&ss
**£©?§
V-4S
i i i j j ; | ?j Im
kMOa i j | » J ! I I flf
sHi
: .
ill®
m
\m;
<3SJ§S»S®
'\&\
<s>:A
B
m
#i
■ Era
s:<&
mz
m
if
m
II
mg*
Hlf
WM
rah, *
-•.-*>
mf
mm
MM
WSmi^
'PM
i£iP’
i yi
m
fi <&&■:
S*
M
;.•$
Vi;W>'-'J
x
<um
fet#
y’/y
rm
f^m
m
s-jr
r/)
s.
mm
%
4fa
i /#;
xSISSI
mi
*/./
§ti
StSI
j5t,K
X,
i I f
if it- *.-■*•*
m
s*te
m
m s
m
o^,
? J
ft.
' * ' rXi«>.tc-rv»>f, <
9.
m
•Jil&zf
X
mm
■x
rmtf
v
J-'5=V
7
3S
js;
d
w
■
m
m
as S
\
K
SgK
m
m
m
/•?•(
i 2 it
?S3
-v.;-
*
s»w
X:-v
wMw
Wgsmx&t
m
itysg
m
mm
mmt
'. $ i s s
mM?
r r. t ./
m&0
wJpjr*
m
.
<=»„>
sg
■>yX
m
B
/"
m
..■■■A
:a
•iv
[ HUfa l
I ir SI 11
-i I f i t I I
# X- • •/.- /.
4SP
i 1
w
■
. - - -
Mil
pi^i
v-V^. jr- s. >' '4- 4 •/• ? 5
n i tf i
.^:/S
»*£
l«Si..
VT '' ''- # J ' v "
> : CA>
# ; 'J
55? Sfßs
msm
C-Vv •
(I
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
»
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Holds some bright
Trench concerts too.
Now the Hun is
Far from gay,
Ev’ry soldier’s
Keen for play.
Bear’s shrill tenor
Wakes the night
Round the brazier
Warm and bright,
And the Anzacs
Hear with elee
“COBRA’S”
Victory.
son or
o


Don’t Have Grey Hair.
A simple, old-fashioned, home-made recipe will
make the greyness disappear.
Grey hair is - often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often downright injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless
manner. You have, only to get two ounces
of tammalite concentrate from your chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum to
prove this. Apply this simple and_ harmless
lotion for a few nights to the hair with a
small sponge and the greyness will gradually
disappear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy, and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in posses-
sion of the formula. — Advt.
I
1
George^
Two features every night, 3 hours —12,000 feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
R
The Picture BlocK m jr
Sydney * Melbourne
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
sdf
BY
APPOINTMENT
sdf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
i
¥
POLITICAL
POINTS
Judge Moule, of Victoria, after hearing a
case in connection with the fitting out of
Australian transports, said that the whole
business was a public scandal, and that the
pilfering and stealing was appalling. This
scandal was well known to the press right
from the outset; but for two years, at any
rate, the censorship forbade any reference to
it, just as it forbade any reference to a hun-
HORRIBLE POSSIBILITY.
“It was a dreadful thing for us when Kit-
chener died!”
“Oh, I dunno! It mighter bin Charley
Chaplin!”
dred other scandals, on the simple ground
that ft was better that the public should oe
robbed than that it should think the Defence
Department was incompetent. The Minis-
ters who thus used the censorship to hide
their own gross incapacity are still in office.
Pearce is one; Jensen is the other.
It is just as well to recall now, when it
is in the balance whether Hughes shall
go to England or not, that last time he
went there he committed this country to
an expenditure of about £2,000,000 for cargo
boats and had not the faintest shadow of
Parliamentary authority for doing it. It
seems a pretty fair hint to Australia to see
that the same swollen-headed little man
doesn’t take any sort of national cheque-
book with him next time he swanks abroad.
By all means let us collar German trade.
At any rate, let us talk about it. The fac-
tories of N. S. Wales alone decreased by 70
during the year for which figures were
lately issued, and by 147 since 1913. There
were actually 238 fewer people em-
ployed. But wages naid showed an increase
of two-thirds of a million, the average for
males having increased about £lO per annum
to £l4O 11s. Id., and for women by some 14s.
per annum to £53 12s. The average wage
for both combined went up nearly £6 to
£llB 11s. Bd. The candle is burning brightly
at both ends. . *
BE BRIEF, MAN!
SENTRY: “Sorry, sir; can’t let you pass
without the countersign!”
OFFICER: “But, dammit, man, you know who
I a m— I’m Captain Fizzlepop.”
SLEEPY VOICE FROM ADJACENT TENT: “Aid
Don’t stay there arguing all night.
Shoot ’im an’ be done with it!”
Our overlapping and cumbersome system
of government threatens to have another in-
teresting result. The six States being still
“sovereign States,” unaffected by the Com-
monwealth in most matters, some at least
of their Premiers believe that they have just
as much right at an Imperial Conference as
the Prime Minister; and this view of the
matter is likely to be submitted shortly—if
it hasn’t been submitted already.
Weird story from a Patagonian paper :
Loose Jaw, Monday.—Two little boys named
Willie Hughes and Joey Cook went fishing yesterday,
but having only one line between them quarrelled
about the bait to be used. At last Willie tried to
put Joey on a hook and in the subsequent struggle
both kids fell into the water. They were rescued
in an exhausted condition and have been ordered to
bed. Several youngsters have come to grief trying
to catch fish at the same spot in the same way.
The Queensland Health Act Amendment
Bill contains the following provision:—
If a person suffering from venereal disease in an
infectious stage marries without giving information
to the other party, such an act shall be ground for
a decree of nullity of marriage if action is begun
within 12 months after marriage and without
resumption of marital intercourse after discovery.
The children of the marriage, if any, shall not be
illegitimate.
This is a clumsy, way of half-repairing a
wrong that there is a simple way of prevent-
ing. It would be equally sensible to abstain
from fixing a load-line in steamers, or pro-
viding that a vessel should carry a certifi-
cated captain, and instead giving the pas-
senger the right to be put ashore in a
launch if, when 20 miles ouf, he discovered
that the ark was overloaded or the captain
really a confectioner. The obvious plan, if a
clean union is aimed at, is to require a clean
bill of health from both parties before
marriage.
During the conscription campaign the
Censor’s Department succeeded in producing
one or two “instructions” which, though
quite valueless except in so far as they pro-
vided the men who elaborated them with a
job, were freely used from anti-conscription
platforms, and used, too, with telling effect.
The same absurd department has now suc-
ceeded in issuing an “instruction” which,
being barked from every corner, as all these
instructions soon are, has caused wide and
totally unnecessary alarm and some dis-
tress. This sort of thing has happened so
often that a principal result of the Depart-
ment. may now be quite fairly said to be the
parentage of vague rumors and the sugges-
tion of mythical disasters.
Sydney had another shower of forged £5
Commonwealth notes during the holidays,
and it was followed by the wholesale issue
of instructions in business places not to
accept proffered fivers. A Commonwealth
note is legal tender, just the same as a
sovereign; and this being so the tiadei
makes ' the very reasonable demand that
Commonwealth notes should be made less
easv to forge. At present they offer prac-
tically no difficulties to a skilled tradesman,
and this is not a fair thing to business
people who are compelled to accept them
or suffer serious consequences. Moreover,
when, as happened recently, a man proffers
a fiver in three or four places and finds that
he can’t pav a debt with it, he is liable to
try to get rid of it for something less than
100 s • and that will be the beginning ot
trouble. In any case, it is liable to cause
alarm. Not every man who has a fo-noie
that he can’t freely pass knows the real
reason. If the Commonwealth Treasury
wants to prevent stupid scares it ought to
talk to its printer.
“Carfax” addresses the congregation: —-
The London Imperialists have handed over a
spare drum to old Bill Massey, of Maoriland, and
if the inhabitants of the Windy Isles don’t burst
out erving it will be because they cannot stop
laughing. Bill addressing the Empire about organic
union is the weirdest thing to happen since Hughes
bolted. Someone may have pumped a few notions
on the subject into him since he reached the Smoke,
but that Bill has even a rudimentary notion of
what he. is talking about is incredible. Yet these
platitudinous remarks of his are being cabled round
the earth as if they were the quintessence of wisdom
and Bill was a modern Solomon. Poor, plain, dull
old Bill, a Cocky in a silk hat, babbling while the
world is in flames about somebody else’s dream
and wishing to heaven he was back home oiating
over the new culvert at Maungapomokomoto! But
it might be worse. While Bill has the floor the
effusive Ward has a chair. And Ward’s last scheme
for consolidating the Empire was to raise a stupen-
dous loan to start with.
The University of Hobart hands over to
Adelaide Herbert Heaton, the brilliant young
Yorkshireman —Master of Arts at Leeds -and
Master of Commerce at Birmingham—who
has been in the Island as lecturer for two
years. ' It falls to Heaton to carry out the
democratising of universities planned by the
Workers’ Educational Association. The S.
Aus. Government lias been converted to the
scheme, and gives a grant in aid; the Adel-
aide University takes up the project with
enthusiasm ; and Heaton accordingly becomes
a lecturer there in economics, with a special
eye on the new classes.
THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF
PEACE.
MEMBER OF THE PEACE SOCIETY : “Let the
bloomin' capitalist fight his own wars!
My motter is, ‘All men is brothers.’”
THE OTHER MAN : “Rot!”
BROTHRHOOD MAN: “It ain’t rot. An’ see
here —I don’t allow no man to tell me
I talk rot.”
From the report of a Melbourne inquest:
The Coroner commented on such a man as
deceased having been at large. The disease was in
a most contagious state, yet he had gone about
among his fellows for weeks.
But as the deceased had not been suffering
from smallpox or leprosy or plague, he
carried his horror around with impunity,
and for all the Law knows handed on the
loathsomeness to other people. He only had
synhilis. And as 70 individuals with
syphilis were recently liberated from the
training-camps in Victoria alone, the dis-
tribution is probably going on as well as
could be expected. Notification? Absurd!
J. H. Cann having shown that you can
wade through the Labor canrva to - bone
worth £l5OO a year, no losl, ..,n 11 mem-
bers of the Broken Hill P.L.L. have inti-
mated that they are ready to follow him.
They are all scrambling at the preliminary
ballot.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN
ADJECTIVE.
M’SOO (to Ansae who has been freely using
his favorite expletive): “Alas, my friend,
I know our dear. France is deep in blood;
but, thank the good God, it is not as
bad as you say!”
With more forests in proportion to area
than any other Australian State, and with
magnificent native softwoods as well as
hardwoods, Tasmania imported from Puget
Sound and other distant places 12J million
superficial feet of timber in 1915, not to
mention furniture and other dressed wood
of the value of £31,000. The im-
portations would have been larger if
the war had not made it nearly
impossible to get stuff ferried from
Scandinavia. The Government has
the importing mania as badly as any
of its taxpayers. When it wanted
joists for its new buildings in Hobart
it used Oregon pine. All the while
the island’s young male population
drifts away, leaving women and old
men to pay the bill for the imports;
and Government after Government
wonders why. Since 1900 Tasmania
has been adding to its population at
the rate of only 1.19 per cent. i*?r
annum ; Canada, from which the fool-
ish little island buys the timber that
it has so much of itself, has been add-
ing 3.28 per cent.
“Kooka”: A few months back I
bought some mouse-traps, and a city
trader tried to load me with a line
bearing a characteristic Australian
brand but with the old “Made in Ger-
many” label in the least conspicuous
part. I have just noticed it, with
the identical trade-mark, exhibited for
sale in Sydney with the legend now
“Made in U.S.A.” To keep out goods
made in enemy countries and finished
or shipped from neutral countries, or
made there at enemy-owned and con-
trolled factories, the only plan is the imposi-
tion of a general high tariff, charging the
same against goods coming from neutral
countries as on goods coming direct from the
land of Kultur.
VICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During 1916 the army and navy were victorious in
all theatres on land and water, and will also be
victorious in 1917. —The Kaiser.
The year was glorious. Up and down we strode,
Clanking our spurs, and making matters hum.
No matter what was standing in the road
It trembled at the shout, “The Germans come!”
It trembled, broke and faded quite away,
And horse and gun we trod it underfoot.
In every theatre the choicest play
Was the vast comedy of Prussian Boot.
You mention Verdun. Well, that small affair
Was hardly up to standard, we admit.
We lost some ground and many soldiers there,
But what a glory on our helmets lit
When we withdrew from shot-torn fort and hill,
Keeping our flag still flying further back !
The tireless heart, the fixed unchanging will
Are victory, and these we never lack.
Jutland ? Well, there we fought a stubborn fight—
A glorious victory, shall history say.
We showed that we could bark as well as bite,
As with unsilenced tongues we ran away.
We won—who doubts it ?—though they held the field
And chased us to our ports with shot and shell.
We dare not try again, but did not yield.
Oh, yes, we won, although they gave us hell.
The Somme? There triumph treads on triumph’s
heels.
Outmatched we may have been and yielded ground ;
But we were busy making peace appeals,
And our defence, though shaken, still is sound.
They pushed us farther every time they tried,
And still can push us back, we greatly fear ;
But in a blaze of glory Germans died,
And there are others left to die next year.
On, on, ye brave! The final scenes await
Your high, courageous valor day by day.
Remember, but don't sing your hymn of hate
While footling Wilson tries to call the play.
Our arms must win. (Lord, how those women wail!)
Keeping fighting 1 (How their bombs and guns
increase!)
It’s always victory until we fail;
And there is still a sporting chance of peace.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Moderate in Price
Honestly Constructed.
Distinguished
in Appearance
PALING’S PIANOS.
11l
m
I
PEMEMBER, when you buy a new piano at
Paling’s you are really making an invest-
ment —for your children as well as for yourself.
At whatever price you are prepared to give for
a new piano at Paling’s you can be certain of
getting best value for tbe money.
Tbe reputation that Paling’s have for selling
satisfactory, honestly-built pianos is an envi-
able one. They do not sell a piano for a day, or
even a year ; they sell for a lifetime.
If you cannot conveniently call, illustrated catalogue and latest price
list will be posted free on request. Please write for them to-night.
EASY TERMS
if you wish
Paling’s,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. established
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore and Toowoomba.
For Chappell , Sames, Estey and Victor Pianos ; also Organs and Player Pianos,
SAFEGUARD Your HEALTH
QtJ.Collis Broiling
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, IfS, 3f-, 51-.
Made in England.
AS MIGHTY AS CARUSO
as brilliant as Tetrazzini; as charming as Farrar; sweet as Alma
Gluck; magnetic as McCormack ; droll as Harry Lauder; as martial
as the Coldstream Guards!
What a remarkable repertoire of the WORLD’S BEST entertainment
comes to you with
sd
His Master’s Voice
Instruments.
Such faithful, human-like reproduction, too —no harsh, discordant,
‘•tinny” notes! The “His Master's Voice” standard is supreme.
One of many, popular models is
illustrated —
The Hornless Oak “Tasman,” at
£l6/10/-
Others are priced at £7/15/-
and up to £67/10/-
Instrument catalogue, complete
record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
mmm
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET- SYDNEY.
A Solid Wall of Good Will
Nothing has ever disturbed the
demand tor this car.
Not for a month, not for a week,
not for a single day.
Having only one car to build,
Dodge Brothers have been able to
build it better and better.
But in the sense of radical
changes, it is the same car tb-day
it was when they designed it.
And still the demand goes on
growing greater and greater.
No outside conditions, no condi-
tions inside the industry, seem to
slow it up a particle.
The people want the car more
intensely at this moment than they
ever wanted it before.
This in the face of the fact that
production is at the highest peak
it has ever reached.
And in the face of the further
fact that the sales —in less than
two years—have been more than
14,000,000 pounds.
You can find out why this is so
from what people are saying about
the car all around you.
For months and months they
talked particularly of its perform-
ance.
Now, you. will hear even greater
emphasis laid on its economy.
You will hear that with thou-
sands of cars in use, Dodge Bro-
thers dealers have practically no
use for repair parts.
That rumor is true. Accidents
are the chief source of demand for
Dodge renair parts.
You will hear that the cost of
maintenance is practically nil.
This, too, is true in thousands
of cases.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers. Detroit
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.. Sydney; Messrs. Canada Cycle
and Motor Co., Ltd., Melbourne; Messrs. Cheney Motor Company,
Ltd., Adelaide; Messrs. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth;
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd., Brisbane; Messrs. Co-opera-
tive Motors, Ltd., Hobart; Messrs. Magnus, Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Wellington; Mr. George Henning, Auckland; Mr. Newton
King, New Plymouth; Messrs. HaTTkes, Ltd., Christchurch;
Messrs. Cossens & Black, Ltd., Dunedin; Mr. P. H. Vickery,
Invercargill.
You will hear that the car con-
sumes an unusually small amount
of petrol and oil.
This is literally true —of every
Dodge Brothers car, under all con-
ditions.
You will hear that it is very
difficult to find Dodge Brothers
cars for sale at second-hand any-
where.
You will also hear that the
second-hand price is only a little
lower than the first price.
Both of these things are true—
not in one city, nor one State, nor
one country, but all over the
world.
You do not hear people talking
about the price of the car.
But you do hear them talking
everywhere about the kind of a car
it is.
In short, wherever you find a
Dodge Brothers' car, you will find
it surrounded by friends.
You will find it running, from
morning to night, in an atmos-
phere of goodwill.
No illwill anywhere, goodwill
everywhere—goodwill that grows
out of its good work.
No one knows the value of this
goodwill any better than Dodge
Brothers know it.
No one counts more on it, nor
works harder to deserve it.
This is your guarantee when you
buy one of Dodge Brothers cars —
the great goodwill that all the
owners feel toward it and the high
value which Dodge Brothers place
on that goodwill.


The danger of Woodrow Wilson’s pros-
trate attitude is its temptation to the Huns
to tread so hard that the worm must turn,
inspires that wise spirit King George IV.
top-notch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s - Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
VARICOSE VEINS,
WEAK LEGS AND JOINTS.
THE VAROX SUPPORT is an Entirely
New Method of dealing with Varicose
Veins and any Leg Weakness. Instant
Relief is obtained, together with Perfect
Ease and Comfort.
'v
/N
•nts) '■>’<
■s'jufH,' <l
if -
r i :
(■
It is a laced
appliance,
which gives
equality of
pressure at
every point,
and can be
reg u 1 a t e d
to the com-
for t of
wearer. It
always
keeps in po-
sition, can
be easily
put on and
taken off.
Will last for years.
Catalogue and Self-Measurement Chart
Posted Free on Application.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TWICE
DAILY
2 p.m„, 8 p.m.
WIRTHS* NEW
HIPPODROME
HAY MARKET
NOW
SHOWING
WILLIAM FOX PRESENTS AUSTRALIA’S PERFECT WOMAN,
ANNE TT E KEL L E R MANN
in his Million Dollar Spectacle,
A DAUGHTER OE THE GODS.
THE MASTER PANTOMIME OF ALL TIME.
Unequalled for gorgeous magnificence.
20,000 Gnomes, Fairies, Battling Warriors and Beauties.
Transformations, beggaring description.
Grown-ups will revel in its splendors—Children will find a realisation of their dreams of
Fairyland.
FULL OPERATIC ORCHESTRA UNDER THE BATON OF GUSTAV SLAPOFFSKI.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY. 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.
POPULAR PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Palings.
Note.—"A Daughter of the Gods” will positively not be shown in the suburbs for at least six
months.
KELLERMANN SEASON
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“0.K.”: Tatt.’s sweeps will never get
purged of blackmail influences as long as the press
continues to treat the tactics of ticket-sweating
owners as being all in the game. For instance, Mel-
bourne Argus, referring to the late scratching of
three horses for the Carrington Stakes- at Randwick,
remarked that “Tasmanian considerations probably
had something to do with their withdrawal, as the
horses were in good condition." The same journal
said of a winner: “It transpires that the owner of the
horse received a substantial consideration from a
Tasmanian source.” The effect of such allusions to
sweep “inducements” is to make it appear that no
owner can be expected to run his horse unless he has
been bribed by the person who has happened to draw
it as a chance in Tatt.’s. No mention is made of
the facts (1) that an owner lias no sort of moral
claim to a share in the good luck of a sweep in-
vestor; or (2) that if he makes a claim with the
threat of scratching his horse if the claim be ignored
he is a blackmailer; or (3) that his threat is a
mere bluff if he knows his horse to be a “good
thing,” in which case he is practically certain to
run it and back it, because he can’t afford to miss
a good opportunity; or, (4) that no “consideration”
could be demanded if Tatt.’s did not acquaint black-
mailing owners with the identity of the ticket-
holders whose luck they want to sweat, or if the
fulfilment of a voluntary promise of sweep “con-
sideration” were not guaranteed by Tatt.’s. Tatt.,
under these conditions, is in the position of a stake-
holder who sanctions and even invites the issue of
garnishee orders on the stake. It is preposterous
that any State Government should legalise horse-
racing lotteries for the benefit of the class of owners
who levy a heavy tax on the big prizes. By this
system every purchaser of a sweep ticket is robbed
of a large percentage of his potential good luck.
The Government, the sweep-promoter and the daily
press are all winking at the robbery. And the
absurdity'of the evil is in the simplicity of the
remedy which is never applied. Whv permit Tatt.’s
sweep to continue as a “consultation” associated-
with horse-racing when it could be conducted with
more virtue and less trouble, as a State lottery, quite
unconnected with turf roguery?
* * * *
Melbourne’s principal betting club —the
Victoria—is just 40 years old. The late J. S.
Butters was founder of the place where “market
prices” used to be gathered for the press ere the
publication of bookmakers’ odds on future events
was forbidden by law. There were, of course,
bookies’ haunts in Melbourne long before Butters
founded the Victoria, but they never had the “tone”
and authority of the new establishment. One of the
original Victoria Club identities died recently. Old
Macnaughton, the tall, inoffensive citizen in question,
ceased to be a bookmaker some 20 years ago, and
had never been on a racecourse since. Mac was
uniquely unconventional among men of the gambling
class. On the racecourse in his younger days he was
a Shatter —a lone-hand worker —quiet, reserved and
seemingly' mild in disposition. After his retirement
he. took up his abode at the Stock Exchange Club,
ancl remained a hatter to his last day. He was a
bachelor, with no surviving relatives, save two
ancient maiden sisters in Scotland. His only, chum
wrts Scotch whisky—-after sundown, but never earlier.
In whisky he found a congenial spirit, and in its
company he loved to talk. Two bottles a night was
hip allowance for many years. He seemed to thrive
on it. When his tongue threw off its restraint Mac
could talk to himself if there was nobody else to
converse with. Two pretty women who slept in the
next room to Mac at a country boarding-house were
disturbed by his nocturnal soliloquy'. At last they
decided to knock at the door. Even that didn’t
strike the old gentleman dumb. He merely cried
“Come in, my dears,” and went on yarning with
himself. The kindliness of Mac’s nature was beauti-
fully expressed in that “Come in, my dears!”
* * * *
Punters beware! Some small-fry pad-
dock bookmakers have felt a pinch. At least two
of them took the knock at Randwick on New Year’s
Day. Several backers went round to collect next
day but missed getting a sight of the Tommies they
were searching for. No harm would be done by
the A.J.C. holding a stability examination. The
practice seems to be to find out how a man stands as
far as pelf is concerned, grant a license and allow
him to go on until he hits something. This paper
would suggest that the A.J.C. should have a look
at existing bank balances and revise the list of
licenses.
One of the most patiently-managed gees
in the racing business is the natty seven-year-old
Aleconner, who won the Standish Handicap at Flem-
jngton on New Year’s Day. Aleconner is right at
the top of the second class, and he stays better than
most of Malster’s get. The best wins to his credit
are the Epsom at Randwick three years ago, and the
Williamstown Cup (11 furlongs) in November, 1914,
since when he had never made a mark
until he brought off the little coup in the Standish
flutter. During his long but not too arduous career
he has -scored seven or eight wins and several seconds
and thirds in races worth more than £5OO, handi-
caps or minor yv.f.a. events. His distance is any-
thing from six to 11 furlongs, though he once went
so far as to be runner-up in the Place Handicap (12
furlongs) at A.J.C. Autumn Meeting. Now that
he is back to his best, or almost his best, form, the
chestnut son of Malster and La France may bring a
little more grist to the Baillieu mill. He is appar-
ently as sound as ever he was.
*■ * ■* *
Foil, the nag which annexed the Canter-
bury Park (Sydney) Handicap on Saturday', has a
liking for that course. Several times there he has
beaten everything in events over a mile and a
quarter. But this time he had to be ridden right
out to beat Tomlinson’s imported Medley. The
people behind Foil—said to be a well-known firm
of Sydney penciUers—usually throw in for a big
win when their animal is feeling well. Foil was
put up for auction the other day, but as the bidding
stopped at £lOO he did not change his address.
Strange how often horses after being- offered to the
public come out almost immediately and win races!
■X- * * *
The Pommy keeps on doing it. The
latest to do the trick is Urney, who secured Canter-
bury Park Stewards Mile oh Saturday, One day
recently when Urney' was having a go at Randwick
in novice company he was expected to do some-
thing, and the shrewd heads made long-price invest-
ments. As. it didn’t come off the- theory that he
would do the trick on Saturday when opposed by
horses like La Balfour, Blackacre and others was not
popular. Urney’s win must have been balm to the
wounds of trainer Tomlinson, whose Medley had
been touched off earlier in the afternoon. This
latest importation to’ win came from Ireland, where
he landed a couple of races. lie may be heard
from later.
As the Carrington Stakes winner Bala-
rang is not entered tor the x\.J.C. Challenge Stakes,
the handicapper’s estimate of where that nag
to be among the weight-carriers is not available.
But the tonnage-fixer is evidently still of opinion
that Woorak wants anchoring with something sub-
stantial and hands him lOst. 41b. Baronet Coopers
imported Redfern comes next with 9st. 111 b., or
31b. more than Colugo. It looks rather rough on
Redfern. #
The Stead brothers of M.L. are running
a dead-heat. On New Year’s Day the Melbourne Cup
winner Sasanof was liberated in the Great Northern
Derby to beat The Toff, owned by Gerald, a brothel
of the young man who invaded Australia in the
Springtime. Sasanoff won. Later at the sariie
meeting the mokes came together again, under a
lower scale of weights, in the Auckland Plate, a mile
and a half, each with 7st. 111 b. This time The Toff
struck the line first, and the Flemington gelding
arrived next. The Derby was run two-fifths quicker
than the Plate. #
Died last week, the mother of R. C.
Hungerford, secretary of N. S. Wales Trotting Club,
and widow of the Maorilander who brought to Aus-
tralia a nag that was a champion 2-year-old—
Whakawatea. Age, 73.
“Mujik”: The punter who says “Well,
I’ve backed a couple of winners, and am going to
knock off,” is usually the same lunatic who keeps on
backin’ ’em when they run last. The only difference
in his madness is that it has broken out in a fresh
place. It is the wise punter who doesn't button-up
when he is on a winner or two, and who when he
strikes a losing sequence uses his money to take a
holiday. These things go in runs, for, after all has
been said about Brains, it is still true that Luck is a
lively animal. Winners come to all men like cards
at poker, or the main at hazards ; and what sort of
an ass would he be who turned up throwing 2 to 1
chances when he had done it twice? No one can
consistently win money backing horses on the level,
but the punter who refuses to follow the goddess
when she beckons him on is going to be a loser all
his life. Take your shirt ar.d boots off when your
Luck is in. Leap into a motor-car and drive 175
miles without a stop and stay there for six months
when Luck frowns.
* * * *
“J.H.M.” : About the blackboard tote (B.
4/l/’l7). A Sydney “sport” was running one at a
pony meeting up Tamworth way, and was having a
rough time. In the “big” race the favorite led
coming up the straight, and the clerk used up two
pieces of chalk marking down crosses. Then Foot-
light and Nancy challenged the favorite and passed
him, to be pipped off by a local horse by a short
head. The clerk nearly sprained his wrist, and when
some of the locals came to collect they were stag-
gered by the number that had backed the local
unknown. One chap said, “There wasn’t so manv on
when I backed it.” “Garn,” replied the blaekhoarder.
“Didn’t you see Murphy, the publican, send out a
bucketful of half-crowns for it just before the start?”
This staggered the crowd for a while ; then one asked
how much they would get. “Wait till I reckon it
out,” said the" rook, looking round to get a clear
run. “Well,” he said, “you all owe me threepence
each.” Then he flew.
“Puzzle”: What should the stewards do
when a horse throws its rider after winning, and
bolts into the unknown? Technically, he can’t weigh
in ; but when it happened at the Fowler’s Gap meet-
ing, behind Broken Hill, a conference resulted in
his being allowed till 10 p.m. to recover his saddle.
And it was duly found, about five miles down the
road ; but how the horse got rid of it, and where he
has got to since, are mysteries yet to be solved.
“Toby C.”: That grassfed prad of
“Nomad’s” (B. 28/12/’l6) was no waster to cover
108 miles in 12 hours, but wait a minute. In the
early ’nineties C. C. Price, at that time school-
master at Taralga, wagered £5O to ride his grass-
fed mare 100 miles in daylight. The wager accepted,
Price and his mustang hopped "
at 6 a.m., taking a course through Goulburn to
Braidwood, 60 miles. They fed up at Braidwood, and
returned to Tarlo, another 40 miles. The wager
was won with three hours of daylight still in
hand. Price then headed his mount for Taralga and
was home and fed up again before dusk —120 miles.
Two days before the wager was made the mare was
offered for £2O. After the event she changed hands
for £4O. Pedigree—by Tatto out of some good
Australian mare.
“Ghan” : “Yarrum” enters his horse Black
Tommy (B. 30/11/’l6) for the endurance test.
Well, it will have to lick these. On Christmas Eve,
1915, a 14.2 black pony belonging to one Burke
left McCarron’s Shamrock Hotel, Grahamstown
(N.S.W.), at 7 a.m., pulling an ordinary road sulky
plus Burke and holiday luggage, and was stabled at
Kiandra at 3 p.m. That’s 75 miles. Included in
the trip was the ero sing of Talbingo Mountain.
Another Italian named Casey tried to follow, but
long before reaching the mountain had to transfer
his belongings to his fellow countryman and lag
behind. This pony is still earning his oats around
Grahamstown, and as his owner is anxious for a
holiday he will wager the expenses (full fares) of
the same journey with any unbeliever, and says his
pony will do it twice in a week. Another trip,
also by a 14.2, driven by Jack Dooley and draw-
ing three in a sulky, left Narrandera early morning,
journeying to Wagga, and thence to King’s Hotel
at Belmore —95 miles in the day. The horse that
did this was from an Angler mare and was bred by
Bob Falder.
* S- *
“Carfax”; I don’t want to call anyone
names, but if “J.J.C.” (B. 28/12/’l6) isn’t fairly
close to the limit with his man from Gympie who
walked 67 miles one day and back over his tracks
the next, then he ought to copyright the story. The
world’s record for a walk of 100 miles, held by an
athlete of exceptional endurance, is 21 hours and
42min. Yet this cove who could do 134 miles inside
two days is said to have thought nothing of it. The
thing is absolutely impossible except by a man of
amazing vitality, trained to a hair, and on a road
kept clear of horses, bikes, waggons and motor-cars.
To cover 40 miles on the boot within 24 hours is a
big thing to do. I know because I did it once, and
three men who had walked. over hills after sheep for
years knocked up on the journey. It took me 19
hours, with two sleeps and five feeds, and you can
take it as gospel that the last 10 were as long as
the final stage from the Everlasting City to Eternity.
“Quinton”: The cricketing deeds of
Norman Dodds, killed in France, entitled him to a
place in the 1909 team for England. He played
with the first against the next XI, at a “trial' match
in Melbourne, which, it was stated, was to decide
whether he or N. S. Wales Gorry should go aboard
as second to keeper Carter. Dodds “kept brilliantly
and emphasised his claims by scoring 80 not out in
the first’s only innings. He was a natural wicket-
keeper. But the tour was neither for him nor for
Gorry. Carkeek, of Victoria, was chosen.
When war broke out the Midland Hunt
Club (Tas.) had 65 members. But there are only three
left in the Speck now —the other 62 enlisted. And
seven of them, at least, will never come back.
I)an Gee (Middle Harbor), whose 61
against Glebe was the highest score in Sydney pre-
miership cricket on Saturday, handled the bat when
many of the present cricket generation were in
knickerbockers. ’Way back in 1903 he and \ic
Trumper put up 423 in 2hr. 40min. for Paddington
against Redfern, and this effort still adorns the
record of batting feats. Trumpet’s share was 335.
R. Long worth’s 100yds. in 59 2-ssec. from
scratch at Rose Bay (Sydney) on Saturday, is the
best-time swim in Sydney this season. Another
of the family filled second place front the 4sec. mark.
Brother Billy, at present in khaki, who has won
most of the Australian swimming championships,
recently picked up an “Empire khaki championship”
in England; but, owing to the time for the event
being made much slower than his best in Aus-
tralia, the English sporting press has been making
nasty remarks about Australian watches. Appar-
ently military boots have slowed William down.
At the Sydney New Year sports W. J.
O’Reilly, one of the city’s bulkiest policemen, put
the 161 b. weight 36ft. 9in. and threw the hammer
88ft. lOin. Every ounce of O’Reilly was also put
beneath the caber, but the weapon fell an inch short.
There is age in O’Reilly’s whiskers now; but he is
still an impressive circumstance when the removal
of ironmongery is under discussion.
Desdemona’s sailing double in Port
Jackson on Saturday draws attention to the fact that
there have been an unusual number of doubles pulled
off this season. Each Saturday’s race is run in two
heats, and the first half-dozen in each contest meet in
the final. Although the heat winners would natu-
rally be expected to have the best chance in the final,
the’ usual thing has been for a third boat to bolt
home in front. Lately, however, heat headers have
been final winners also —a disastrous thing for the
double-event books.
A motor-car recently fled over half a mile
of Southport (Q.) beach in 21sec.—85 miles an hour.
This is whooped to be the fastest half-mile recorded
outside U.S.A., and the crowd that made the tear-
away hopes to do even better in more favorable
weather conditions. The beach gives an 11-mile
straight course. It would be an ideal place to intern
road hogs.
* * * *
“Petifi”: When 1 honoring the heroes of
Verdun pass one salute to the motor-car. For it was
there —4000 of it —and how grandly it did its little
bit we're only now beginning to learn. When, last
February, the Germans loosed their big punch the
nearest rail-head from which the French could
push up supplies was at Bar le Due, 30 miles away,
and connected with Verdun by only one roadway that
was capable of carrying heavy motor traffic. Along
that single track M’sieur set moving an endless chain
of 4000 autos., which maintained a uniform distance
from each other of 20 yards, and travelled at a
uniform rate of one yard per second. While railways
were being plunked down with ding-dong urgency,
2000 munition-and-supply cars moved doggedly for-
ward along one side of that highway, and 2000,
empty or carrying wounded, moved doggedly back to
the base along the other side. One command only
was inexorable: the chain mustn’t stop. Did a
driver find his machine getting sick he must ditch it
instantly—a repairing gang of mechanics would
physic it as soon as may be. Did the perpetual
traffic wear up the road surface a watchful workman
darted in between two machines, hastily deposited in
the rut a shovelful of soft stone, and sprang clear.
The wheels of the autos, themselves crushed the new
material into good serviceable macadam. So up and
down —up and down —dav and night—for three long
months went the Four Thousand. Salute !
, * * * *
For the full enjoyment of a torrid New
Year’s Day in Sydney it is best to have been born
in Argyllshire and had six months’ hard training
before the gaietv arrives. Then you get into your
breeks and your kilt and sporran and philabeg, and
your hot, exhausting stockings, decorate yersel’ wi’
a cairngorm and snuffbox, tie your leg to a dagger,
put on a few blankets, and proceed to the gathering
o’ the clans. The subsequent happenings consist of
tossing cabers, cracking jokes wi’ Sandy, consuming
usquebaugh wi’ McTavish and McKenzie and Tonald
McDuff, and dancing flings and the Reel o Tulloch
and the Seann Truibheas, and giving frantic cheers
for thb lads wi’ the pipes. Eh, mon, it’s grand, it’s
grand, to be in Sydney toun o' New Year and have
nothing to do but rush round wi’ a red face and
broil all day in the sun. They had a gathering of
Hielan’men at the Show Grounds on New Year Mon-
day, and it looked about the most violent form of
exercise the writer has seen since he encountered all
the Jocks of Otago hogmanaying at Dunedin.
*****
They still mix their jobs in the North.
At a recent race-meeting up there the sanitary man
and his'missus did the catering for the afternoon-
tea. As the last crumb was being shaken out of
the last lap the caterer yawned. “Well, I ain’t sorry
it’s over,” he said to his patronesses. “I been on
the cart three nights this week, and cutting sand-
wiches all the morning, and I’m that dog-tired I’ll
have to let things go to-night.”
* * * *
The long-standing dispute between Tommy
Uren and Fred Kay about the middleweight champion-
ship was argued again before Chief .JustieeArthur Scott
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday. Thomas produced
fresh evidence of a weighty nature, and when cross-
examining the other party made him shift his ground
with great agilitv. Kay met the charges against him
in the fifth round with an argumentative glove which
threatened serious injury to ITren’s reputation, though,
generally sneaking, he relied chiefly on his remote-
ness. But it was mostly Uren, and Scott gave judg-
ment accordingly. How long Uren can hang on to
the title remains to be seen.
Jack Jannese called in at Brisbane last
week-end to discuss a punch on the nose with
Albert Locke. Albert knew all about it at the end
of 20 rounds, the young man from Melbourne im-
pressing it on him with abundant left hooks to the
dial. N.B. —Reward is offered to anyone returning
a gold tooth to Mr. Albert Locke.
“Spot” : When Harry Reeve (out in Aus-
tralia last year) won the cruiser-weight champion-
ship in London lately someone remarked that the
conflict was terribly slow and gave further proof
that “physical drill and military training have a
deleterious effect on boxers.” Well, Reeve was not
much at any time, and the word “deleterious” may
be badly chosen; but it can be taken as true that
physical drill is, as a rule, unsuitable for boxers,
runners and swimmers. At any rate, this is so where the
“drill” aims at building up hard muscle, as it
usually does in the army and navy. And that is
why a first-class boxer nyely conies out of the army
or navy. Without speed a boxer is on the slide
to start with, and no speed is possible when the
muscles are turned into granite. Thore are exercises
that will develop the legs enormously if persisted in ;
but did anyone ever see a pair of gymnasium legs
getting over the grass very rapidly? That physical
culture within limits makes for improvement in the
average man’s health is certain, but that it is much
good to a youth who wants to take a degree as a
Master of Biff is very doubtful. We will
see later on, if the Fates are good, how much Car-
pentier and Billy Longworth have benefited by it.
“Fiat Lux” : This is my experience with
a pull-through stuck fast in a .30'3 rifle. Finding a
ramrod useless, I loaded up with a blank cartridge,
tied a string to the trigger and pulled. Nothing
happened. On opening the breech it shot back, and
the empty shell whizzed past my ear. Another try
was* successful in shifting the obstruction. But
don’t experiment with a shotgun. My brother, out
after parrots, accidentally stuck the muzzle of his
gun into soft mud while crossing a creek. There was
a burst barrel lying alongside a stunned yfltoigster
10 minutes later. •
“Bang”: When a piece of rag got situck
in my .44 Winchester Thompson advised me to “stick
a cartridge into her and let her go.” I did. The
result was a burst barrel and gladness that I had tied
50 yards of fishing-line to the trigger and hidden
behind a stump. On another occasion I tried the
same dodge with a .22 Winchester. The bullet
stuck hard up against the rag. Whereupon I took
the bullet out of another cartridge and reinforced
the charge with about a dram of powder. It
shifted the obstruction all right; but the recoil split
the stock, and the rifle thereafter wouldn’t shoot worth
tuppence.
* * * *
“C.H.S.”: Re obstructions in barrels of
firearms. I have seen two which were removed with
powder, and in each case it was disastrous for the
weapon. A Binghi had a hard wad stuck fast about
half-way down a breech-loading gun, and attempted
to blow it out with a cartridge. Result: Both
barrels broken off short at the point Of obstruction,
Binghi laid on his back, a piece of his ear and most
of his hair missing. No. 2: A volunteer had a. pull-
through fast in his rifle, and fired it out with a ball
cartridge, fastening the rifle to a fence and attaching
a string to the trigger. The pull-through evas
ejected, but where it had been the barrel was bellied
to about twice its proper size for a comb of inches.
Only the good-quality, steel in the barrel saved it
from a fracture.
*• * * *
‘“Bad Australian” : Does anyone care to
hear about another shooting experience? I was out
after kangaroos one morning just before sunrise and
had sneaked to the top of the red-box ridge Overlook-
ing the “lick” on the swamp, where the marsupials
were usually found about that time o’ day. A couple
.of does and a joey were feeding about 200 yards
lower- down the flat. I picked the biggest of the
bunch and fired at the widest part of the hind-
quarters. This is the only place for a sure shot at a
marsupial, as you get a leg or the pelvis or backbone,
the most vulnerable parts, except, of course, the heart
or brain, which no experienced kangaroo-shooter ever
aims at. On skinning the animal I found that the
Martini bullet had gone right through. Just. a.s I had
worked my foot in over the loin preparatory to
giving the final heave which lifts the skin to ears
and tail tip, I happened to look across the flat, and
there, about 25 yards away, lay an “old man” with
the blood flowing from a wound between flank' and
thigh. When I skinned and dissected him I found
that a flake of lead about the size of a shilling had
cut an artery and was partly embedded in one of the
joints of his backbone. On Sherlockholmsing the
matter I found the mark of the bullet on the moss-
covered granite outcron immediately behind the
corpse of-the first animal. The bullet had struck, the
rock, and flying off killed the “old man.”


Good Health is within
YOUR Reach !-i
*
sali
Good health waits on good digestion.
Good digestion is the result of sufficient and proper exercise,
therefore good health is within the reach of all.
IF you wish to become strong and healthy—to be always
physically fit —you must have proper exercise. Lack of
exercise means poor digestion—poor muscular development—
insufficient strength to ward pff the many complaints to
which mankind is susceptible. Get strong, and stay strong.
My Postal Course of
Health and Strength Exercises
will make you fit, apd keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen, and unseen,
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the
system—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling
waste tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part
of your body.
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let me send you a copy of mv Booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.” It tells all about my
health-giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three
penny stamps for postage. Just write vour name and address
across this advertisement. I’ll know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
569 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
OZETTI
Cigarettes
(EGYPTIAN)
tw™
WAiir
r ' I
Actual Size.
are very popular with
those who like a really
high-grade Egyptian
Cigarette. They are
fairly large (see illustra-
tion), and mild and de-
lightful in flavor.
Manufactured by the
Ardath Tobacco Co. of
London.
Owing to my extensive
sale for these cigarettes,
I indent them in very
large quantities, which
enables me to sell them
at a price considerably
below what they were
originally sold for.
PACKED IN BOXES OF 50.
Usual Price. Reduced Price.
10/- per 100. 6/- per 100.
Postage on 100: N.S.W., 6d.
Other States, Sd.
WRITE FOR A FREE COPY OF MY ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOG.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
i
SHELL-
BENZINE
iHELL'—
SMBU
iNZINE
I I
wMIk
fds
r<?
>
BEFORE.
AFTER
FOR
■"QUICK results''
(dPILLfIRINE
No other moustache preparation
produces such excellent results as
CAPILLARINE. Its efficacy is
being; daily experienced by hun-
dreds of users. Try a jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR. POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 Georere St.
SYDNEY.
Established aver 30 Years.
Answer the Call of the Great
Outdoors —Go Holidaying on
Sndkm
►
Solo or Sid: Car, the Machine Ideal for Australian Roads.
Catalogue “D” with pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.
Adelaide and Creek Streets,
ADELAIDE :
Eyes & Crowle Ltd..
75-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON :
John King & Sons Ltd.,
Charles Street.
PERTH :
Armstrong Cycle and
Motor Agency, Hay St.
666 Z
■n
NQJ.Vd
"J
IiVS
wmKwmsmam
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
3all Mills,
lube Mills,
etc.
YViite for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES GIVE MORE WEAR
It’s not what you pay for your shoes, but
what you get for what you pay, that con-
stitutes ECONOMY. Rigney Shoes may
cost a little more by the pair than ordinary
footwear, but they certainly cost less by the
year. And then you have the advantage of
their smart and distinctive appearance.
The illustration shows a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, with latest perforations. A high-
grade, “made-to-order” style.
Price - 30, 1 -
Also in Black and Tan Velour Calf.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
f
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
SCHUTE, BELL, 4 Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Persona! attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
You Sir! with aTough Beard
MEfingns
SH/wiist;
CRSAM
f
CfßHflnoMtnnßi
ChsmiculCa
NEWARK NJUSA
and a
Tender Skin!
YOU who know what
shaving troubles are.
You who dread the
daily torture —the smart-
ing skin—the objection-
able “rubbing in” the
thin lather that dries
and flakes—to you
SHAVING CREAM
offers complete relief from these shaving annoyances.
We claim that the secret of shaving is in the lather and
not in the razor , and that Mennen’s will eliminate your
shaving troubles.
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St., Sydney, N. S. W.
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN.


Now is the time to buy
THE ALL-BRITISH
ONOTO PEN!
asdf
BRITAIN
leads in
Fountain
Pens The
Pen that
does not
leak that
fills itself
md cleans
itself in fil
in?, is Bri
lish made
It i s t 1) e
Onoto the
pen that ne
ver scratches
or splutters
that writes
readily and
sino o t h 1 y.
and isalways
ready to
write. Get an
Onoto now.
It is the best
pen made in
Britain o r
anywhere
throughout
the world,
insist on the
asdf
Onoto
Self-Filling * •
Safely Fountain
Pen
PR ? CE. 14/6, and upwards, of all
Stationers. Jewellers and Stores
Manufacturers—Thomas de la Rue
&Co LTD .Bunhill Row. London. E.C.
Managing Agents—Norman Baker &
Longhurst York Street. Sydney.
Ask for Onotolnk the best for all Pens
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when' you press your Anger on
■ the inflamed part it-leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
Riding Emperors.
m
AJXoden
Our Celebrated “IRONBARK
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitted with the “A & S” special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price - - 14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/6 per pair.
Allan# Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
JASON
UNDERWEAR
British Made [i
from Australasian Wool.
tffPnithy*
0
0 7 SMHD6 9
TRIP M'p.-M
£3lO-
- Speci&l Stewart Speedometer
for Ford and other
Standard Small-type Cars.
A car without a good speedometer is like a business
man without a reliable watch.
Nothing can be kept track of.
Every Ford and other standard small-type car needs
the best speedometer on the market —the Stewart.
With it you can keep track of your tyre mileage ; your
petrol and oil consumption, and keep tab on the
efficiency, economy and performance of the whole
car.
This Stewart Speedometer is specially built for these
cars. It is also specially priced.
It is built on the famous magnetic principle —the same
as the speedometers th«t are used on the highest-
priced motor-cars.
There are nearly 2,000,000 Stewart Speedometers in
use at the present time.
. It is the best and the most practical instrument from
any standpoint.
You can get a lot more pleasure out of your car when
it is equipped with a Stewart Speedometer.
Take no other. Insist on a Stewart. Don’t accept a
substitute.
Purchase one without delay. w
It is a wise plan in buying your next car to see that it
is equipped with a Stewart Type Pump, Stewart Vacuum
Tank, S ewart Warning Signal and Stewart Speedometer.
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor=car Dealers
and Garages—Everywhere.
Bennett Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.W,
“No car is better than its accessories."
ZOL
If any illustration appearing in h'nE
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“Cynicus”: An Anzac, whose discharge
showed two years and 97 days’ service,
reckons Brisbane Medical Board is too cau-
tious. This Billjim was at Gallipoli from
start to finish, but before he could get to
Fiance lost a thumb and a finger, a piece
of shrapnel plugged him within an inch of
liis heart, one leg was badly shattered, and
his stomach got more hard tack than it
could digest. Altogether, he had 18 wounds.
The Board would not accept him for further
service. “What the ’s wrong with me?”
he asked. “We don’t encourage gluttons,”
was all the reply he got. Yet the Antis
would have let him go willingly. In fact, he
was the Antis' strongest argument when they
enthusiastically declared that the volunteer
system had not failed.
“Six-and-Eight”: Re the outrageous cost
of passing on Commonwealth inscribed war
stock in a small deceased estate, “W.A.M.”
(B. 28/12/’lt>) begs the issue. I did not
question the correctness of his figures if the
executor paid a solicitor to do the work. I
only pointed out that in N. S. Wales there
is no necessity to employ gent, one, that
any agent of the curator will do what is
necessary for less than £l. If no provisions
exist in Queensland similar to those in force
in the Ma State, “W.A.M.” may be right.
If, on the contrary, similar provisions do
exist, then “W.A.M.’s” dead friend was unfor-
tunate in appointing an executor who chose
an expensive course where a cheap one
existed. “W.A.M.’s” suggestion that provi-
sion be made for small amounts to be paid
on the executor making a statutory declara-
tion is unexceptionable; but if in Queens-
land it be still practically necessary to em-
ploy a solicitor, how about first getting the
beam out of his own State’s eye? Copying
the N. S. Wales provisions ought not to b?
a job beyond the Ryan Government’s powers
of statesmanship.
In from the sea comes another little
troopship print, The Anesthetic, which
is unlike its contemporaries in that it in-
cludes a “ladies’ letter” “written at ruinous
expense by a dress expert from one of the
howitzer batteries.” For example :
My Dear Blitherette, —At the concert on Friday
night I noticed Sister T in a ravishing confec-
tion of grey madapolam, the rather rococo lines
of which were relieved by a scarlet over-piece or
top-hamper of priceless old shantung, the whole
being- set off, not to say emphasised, by a massive
toque of the purest white calico, or again it may
have been (but how about a fresh sentence?). Near
her was that indefatigable squire of dames, Captain
A . lie was wearing his second-best uniform,
the one that the Quartermaster made for him on
the Peninsula.
But it’s a pretty dangerous thing, all the
same, for a soldier to poke borak at
woman’s passion for dress details. Nothing
that a fashion-writer ever wrote goes so
minutely into details as some orders and
regulations relating to the millinery of Billy
Anzac and his moderately-good friend
Atkins.
“Oliver” : There is a pearl of great price
in the conscientious report of the Vic. De-
partment for Neglected Children. “The
infants that pass through the depot are,
perhaps the most difficult problem,” says the
visiting committee, “as many are practi-
cally at death’s door when they enter, and
it is impossible in so many cases to pull
them through .”
Geelong favors the brand which produces
the fighting drunk. A par. in the local
Advertiser gives publicity to a storekeeper's
“revised price list of wines and spirits for
the New Year holidays,” and proceeds tri-
umphantly : “A special line is old Scotch
cream whisky at 4s. 3d. and Bs. per battle.”
“Itan”: The flying-fox in Bananaland is
rapidly changing its habits. When the vermin
descended on the Queensland coast in millions
last summer they did not bother about spend-
ing the night in secluded spots in the moun-
tain scrubs as they used to. They just hung-
up in the nearest tree, even if it happened
to be in the city street. Since then they
have grown still bolder, and great numbers
did not return to northern breeding haunts
this year, but just hung about the fleshpots.
While waiting for the fruit to ripen they
have been filling in nights squealing and
fighting over- the scanty “figs” available on
the Moreton Bay trees in the parks.
“J.J.C.” : No need for O’Malley’s culvert
to be laid through Torres, because just as
much water falls on the Queensland side as
in Papua. Geraldton, now Innisfail, has
done 6ft. per month on several occasions,
and falls of lOin. and over per day are quite
common. The greatest washing-day ever re-
corded in Bananaland was at Crohamhurst,
on February 2, 1893, when 35|in. was
emptied down. Some of the islands off the
coast exceed even this, _ but there are no
official records of their doings.
A recent shuffle makes Captain Patrick,
lately in charge of the Melbourne excursion
boat Weeroona, “captain supervisor” of his
co.’s fleet. This grizzled old commander,
who must know Port Phillip as most men
know their homes, used to do some remark-
ably accurate weather forecasting. Once a
wharfside joker told him of a suburban
barber who, despite his everlasting indoor
job, was as slick as any mariner in his
prophecies. Patrick later on called at the
little shop for a haircut and, during the
usual yarn, casually asked the razor-artist
how he worked out his forecasts. “Oh,”
said the barber carelessly, “there’s some
captain-cove called Patrick who does a bit
of forecastin’. He’s always wrong, so, what-
ever he says, I says the opposite.” It was a
minute or two before Patrick realised that
he had been decoyed ashore.
“A.R.”: Met a merry little Cockney ves-
terday with a tale to tell. He had been >n
guard duty a few days before, and a fussv
English sergeant, who hadn’t been long
enough at the game to know the unwritten
rules, ordered Private Thomas London, alone
and unaided, to clear a room of noisy Aus-
tralians, Private London’s sole weapon for
the suicide consisting of a stick. “The
blinky sergeant, ’e says to me,. ‘London,’
he says, ‘you clear out these blighters!’ I
ups and says, ‘What! me go in amongst
them wild Horstralians! Not ’arf! Them
chaps can punch wuss nor’ ’orses kick. You
tell them to git out! ’Corse ’e clinked me
for it, but Pd rather be clinked nor have a
funeral.”


sd
Model 7S-B
Model 758
Touring Car
a:
25 Miles Per Gallon—
Here is a light, powerful, economical car that offers you every worth-
while advantage found in the highest priced cars. Its low price includes
complete equipment.
The new series Model 75 B Overland is superior to any other car in its
price class both in appearance and performance.
It excels in power —makes hills seem almost like level road.
In looks—the body is finished in a beautiful light grey.
In economy—what other car of its size and power will average from
20 to 25 miles on a gallon of petrol?
In comfort —the seats are deep, soft and roomy. The rear springs are of
the famous shock-absorbing cantilever type. The tyres are 4 inch.
■.. & - ■ . ’
What’s more—this Overland is completely equipped. Not a thing to buy
extra. You get the finest Auto-Lite electric starting and lighting system,
Tillotson carburetor, magnetic speedometer, one-man hood, demountable
rims and practically every other accessory found on the highest priced cars.
Come in and see this new Overland today. Compare it with other cars
selling at its price and judge for yourself which offers the most for the
money. We will be glad to demonstrate it to you.
Model 84-B
The Willys-Knight five passenger touring car. 114 inch wheelbase, Knight type engine, SL4 75.
Complete Catalogues on Request from—
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide f
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEAT HORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HA TRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
<*
The Willys-Overiand Company, Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.


THBfTIiI
BY FAR THE*
H
A
JL_
The Best is not
too good for Baby
There are many medicines for the various ail-
ments of the Baby. A great number of these
ailments arise from one cause —Teething. The
medicine that attacks all the symptoms of teeth-
ing is the best and only standby the mother has
at this troublesome time.
Fishers Teething
Powders
have been made in Sydney for the past forty
years and ha e become established as a most
efficacious and trustworthy remedy to employ
during dentition. They are the one medicine
necessary to every home that has a baby. Give
Fishers Teething Powders should your baby
show any of the following symptoms: Restless
at night, Feverishness, Diarrhoea, Constipation,
Nervous Excitability. Flushed Face, or Pers-
peration about the head. We guarantee them
not to contain Opium, Morphia, Calomel, nor
any injurious ingredients. Sold in boxes, 20
Powders, 1/- ; 60 powders, 2/6
Buy the Best for Baby
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists*
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing' Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
fsd
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mpars Ear Phono many times as efficient
iweaii i/di riione and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agentr.
E. D. MORRISON * CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins to
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
At
CARTE®
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS,
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
fds
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
, WHEEL.
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You’ll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“M/he f/nfirf,
\
n ,
_
Sage.
fr
If
ii.. f
; '
aw
w*
v^V
Collars ~t?yartec/f
SffIPTS ~ fiaffa fengtft
PYJ4M4S-«^//
jßos/ocA
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
they are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form. But think of it in reality, a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a dainty Louis heel. If ever there was
an ideal shoe for smart wear in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
Bostock No.
P645S
J
m
as
m
i
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
bo not miss the latest Bostock ship-
ments now on view' at the leading stores.
825
f
THE SIGN Of]
AGOOD SHINE I
BOSTOCK’S DRY CLEANER BLOCKS
for dry cleaning white and colored footwear, canvas and suede shoes, and cloth-
topped boots, has no equal.
It is easily applied, does not rub off, and is satisfactory in every way.
Champagne, Buff, Light and Dark
SE6d. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Colors-White, Black, Brown,
Grey, and Khaki. PRICE 6d
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
x\
THE “DADDY” OF THE LOT!
Hundreds of shavers who have tried no end of so-called Safety Razors
declare that
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is the “daddy” of all shaving instruments. Never a blade was made
to equal it. Shaves in a “jiffy” and in one act of lathering'.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Answers to correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xame and address must appear on the MSS. A'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Hard-up Esq.: It was a solemn fact, any-
how. The issue had to be abandoned after two-
thirds of it was read}' for the press. ... W.S.G.:
Thanks very much. But we love the old dads all the
same. . . .Kresol: Half-a-guinea. . . .R. 8.: If it was
our money we would take the shares. .. .4183: Gor-
don and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, London. .. .C.A.F.
(or something like that) : Seems all right, but you
forgot to send the microscope with the copy. . . .
11.J.8.T.: Thank you. But for Billjim’s treatment
in Egypt don’t blame the “cold-footed military
police.” Blame a vapid Defence Minister in Aus-
tralia .... Demijohn: Not badly done; but already
well paragraphed .... I.A-Act: Thanks. There ought to
be a fine field for paragraphing in that jurisdiction.
Why not try it ?. .. . Bellerive: It’s a terrible warn-
ing of the mutability of popular favor: —
TIIE EX ACTOR.
He’s garments were tattered.
Long and grizzled he’s hair.
In he’s once bright eyes
Was a vacant stare —
An actor who’d lost
He’s stage renown,
From super to tramp
Had drifted down ;
When he shone as a star
Of the dramatic stage
Applause would ring out—
He’s name was the rage.
Alas, life’s but a dream
To one and all,
And fame like gold
Has its rise and fall.
. ...Ivainga: That’s on the prohibited list.... No
name: “Australia is the land for me” doesn’t get
near.... The Kooka : Poor attempts. .. .J. Me.:
“Black Diamonds” much too long for interest....
E.W.D.: Nothing in that. It is a merely artificial
attempt at sensation.... Starr: Meaning clear
enough, but commonplace and all out of scansion.
“Dog” too slight. .. .R.L.C.: “Salted AVounds” has
points, but not enough of them. ... A.K.8.: No, we
don’t think “come” is a good rhyme for “sun” even
if the Australian Journalist does star the infamy
on its front page. .. .Billy Small: Yarn won’t do.
AVrite your name on your copy. .. .Remis A’elisque:
Not half enough killing in it. A yarn like that
should reek with slaughter... .G.S.: Nothing in
them. . . .R.J.S.: We don’t publish thinly beaten out
moral advice of that sort. . . .K.S.: “Facsimile” not
our style. . . .Horace: No. . . .D.AV.O.: “Tapu” yarn
won't work. .. . Spanwire: Material in it, but not
brightly enough done... .E.W.: Even your sympathy
for a widow can’t win acceptance for that. .. .
11.F.T.: Rambling yarn about land fell dead....
C.G.J.: Not up....J.D.: “Lords, land and labor”
is rhymed prose with the sense running thin. . . .
J.E.N.: Ideas, but lacking skill. .. .Mickymulga:
It bumps and straggles like a wheezy wheelbarrow
with a triangular wheel.... Country Ped: Ann is
a dreary drunk.... S.R.K.: No use here. .. . J.A.T.:
Dreary conventional stuff. .. . W.K.: “Omens” doesn't
get to much.... Theo: N 0... . Betsy Prigg: Marred
by a meaningless line. .. . G.J.: Poor stuff... .N.L.:
Christening yarn wobbles in places. .. .D.D.: The
romance note is a bit too wild. . . .8.F.8.: You
have some skill, but use too many words.... .H. 8.:
Mechanical yarn. .. .Buderim: You make your Bill-
jim too riu .ch of a fool. Hadn’t he any good points
at all? Peter Pintpot: You have some distance
to go J.A.K.: You say “I could write this sort
of thing unceasingly for a week.” Yes, but why
will you ?. .. . O’P.: (1) Granted; but the point is
not Fiat certain authors gained degrees in universi-
ties, but whether they owe the fact that they are
authors to the universities —whether, in short, the
course in English Literature at our universities
stimulates any graduate toward authorship. And
your list can be contrasted with a much larger list
of authors who never took a college course. (2)
The Red Page is red because the B. cover is red.
The matter is merely one of the make-up of the
paper; and there are commercial difficulties about
shifting it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
AVynne: Feeble drawing... .Mickymulga: Gag old,
but it is good enough for the drawing. ... A.8.C.:
Not worth illustration. .. .E.R.: None of them,
thanks. .. .H.C.P.: Crude drawing and a cruel jest.
....H.AV.B.: Out. .. .AV.M.L.: Sorry, can’t use it. .. .
M.C.8.: Too dreary.... A. L.G.: Passed outward....
Rustler: Can’t you make it brighter ?... .J.C.: AA’ell,
what do you think of it yourself ?... .E.S.S.: The
idea is there; keep hold of it. . . .T.E.G.S.: Now, if
you’d made that fellow missing his last train and
loaded to the nines with crays and bottles, it would
have had a chance. Try it....E.D.: N 0.... Bob:
Give it up.... Tom J.: N 0... . AA’ill A. (V.) : Ditto.
.... Miss M.AV.: There’s a lot of better work waiting
for a nice girl.... Old Song: Keep at nawying... .
C.R.: Fined 40 bob. .. . J.0.N.: Fined 80 bob.
Having passed through the firing-line in
Egypt and Gallipoli without being once
punched, a blue 2d. ticket issued by the Mel-
bourne Tramway Co. has returned to Vic-
toria. It left Australia tucked in the uni-
form of Sergeant S. A. Round, in October,
1914. It saw the Sphinx and the Pyramids,
and covered on desert marches about 700
penny sections. It went into action near
Ismailia, and rolled back the first Turkish
attack. Later, it landed at Anzac, survived
the occupation and evacuation, and spent
Christmas, 1915, in Egypt. Thence it passed
to London, where tram- and ’bus-conductors
refused to honor it. It saw its owner
through an appendicitis operation, and when
Round joined the Army Pay Corps he sent it
back to his mother, who keeps it as a
souvenir.
Young George Patterson, a Melbourne
advertising agent who joined the A.M.C.
early in the war, writes of food at the
Front: —
We were supposed to have just plain “guts,”
rather than stomachs, when the Egyptian days were
on; but only a High Commissioner would complain
of the menu here in France. The quantity, quality
and variety are wonderful. Personally the worst
food I’ve met on active service was home in Aus-
tralia. Of course it may have improved now, for 15
months have gone by. It needed to, badly.


The Linseed Oil
for Australia.
■
xa Mimmrin
*
dZ3!izrr.
thttiiiiiknyi
pl
*T/ is
r j
1111
wnnimm
n
‘ , L
I
o
m
o
< {
/
SSSS
I!
I ;
VA'.wX.W*V.^wwwirivf-.
A \
v
Hff
PAINTERS* Help to make Australia prosperous by using; Linseed Oil,
made by good Australian Workmen at Parramatta.
For full particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.. Melbourne;
Win. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers, Parramatta, n.s.w.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E.N GLAN D,
New
with
Luxe.
private
and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
ireless Telegraphy. Gabines-de-
staterooms with bedsteads and
Rathrooms.
For
dates,
Single-berth Rooms.
Llectric Lifts and Laundries,
all information regarding sailing
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (oircumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
*ROCIvHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
north.
■CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 13.
BURWAH (Cargo Only).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. IT.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 20.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 24
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 27.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and XV. A. ports)
*Passengers only.
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 20.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED,
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, li.C.M.G
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
Loudon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) .. £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND £85,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Svdnev.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 212,000 0 0
ll. terminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunuing, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
. HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of Beni Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking busines*.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Ling to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
LX ‘ RED ” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
around the world bookings, returning via china and japan, or via
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through "Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Maltura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
dsf
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,705,320
£2,725,000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. ; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Hoad Office— Georgre St., Bydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
-T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
sdf
JfianbHustmlta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking* Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum.
Deposit
2600
At all Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELI.. Deputy Goremor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER, Governor
ADOPT THIS PLAN for 1917
and deposit systematically part of your
WEEKLY OR
MONTHLY INCOME.
After providing for
FOOD
CLOTHING
RENT
INSURANCE
TAXES
AMUSEMENT
INCIDENTALS
THE AMOUNT OVER ACTUAL EXPENSES
Deposited in this Bank will accrue with 3f% interest and be available
when you want it.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution—HEAD OFFICE, 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIIIIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Feb. 9 and Mar. 9.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
RUPARA, Jan. 13.
PARINGA, Jan. 20.
MORIALTA, Jan. 27.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BIIIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
"Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
‘Wimmera,
‘Victoria.”
‘ Westralia,
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART' AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply :-OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHAItN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES &-CO. LTD., Hobart.
■pHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Roaea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper&Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the ellects of Sunscorch.
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.


.
' as
*32®
gs i - -
m
m
Carry your Car on
MICHEUNS
(The famous French Tyres). -
MICHELIN can give you
regular deliveries.
MICHELINS—The Best
Therefore the most Economical
ON
Help MICHELIN
to
CARRY ON
the
Good Work,
( MICHELIN has given £40,000 to further the work of French Military
Aviation, and is manufacturing 100 Aeroplanes, which he
is giving to the French Government, representing an
approximate cost of £lOO,OOO.
MICHELIN also proposed the establishment of the “FLYING SERVICE
FUND” for the benefit of British Aviators and their de-
pendents, giving £l,OOO to start the fund —also gave £BOO
to the Prince of Wales’ Fund —and has given to date
£120,000 to the dependents of his employees who are
< fighting for the Allies.
MICHELIN is manufacturing shells and bombs for aeroplanes, etc.,
and is also helping by his large supplies of tyres to the
British, French, Belgian and Italian Armies.
MICHELIN has established and maintains a hospital of 320 beds for
the wounded, costing to date £30,000 —has paid share-
holders in War Loan —and has made advances to his
staff who have to sth December subscribed £202,012 in
War Loan and £5,520 to Fund for parcels for the Troops,
i Many other things could be added to this list.
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained at all the leading garag
V
Jl
5 i
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
fCARBOLtCI)
IOOHI
Sold by local Chemists and Scores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester, Eng.
sd
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AUABIS
Egyptian Henna Before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia!
Teach your boy to train his faculties
and at the same time have the best sport for
boys from every standpoint.
€
42
A Remington-UMC
Repeater is a mod-
ern production, equipped with
all essential features of safety
and convenience. Accurately
bored and rifled for Remington-
UMC .22 short, long and long rifle
rim fire cartridges.
Ask your dealer to show you one or
send for catalogue. Post free.
The Remington Arms Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Woolworth Building
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON
UMC
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
V%
no'^
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes, you’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write lor our
Catalog—lT’S
New Novelty
FREE.
$9
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the ease than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708*710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
-v
WEAR
ABBEY SHOES
—the footwear that is PERFECT
in appearance, fit, style and work-
manship. They will give entire
satisfaction in all respects.
We illustrate a Tan Willow Calf
Bal 25/- and 307-
Box Calf . . 22/0, 25/- and 27/6
Glace Kid 28/0
Special grade, leather lined 32/0
In full sizes, C. & D. Fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our New Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
liijJiLlilS.
Hri
i-ro
‘Mu
mbs
Sra!
i:.!' 'a -< J
m
u
Nf*
il (i
George
St. Hilda,
HOTEL
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 72 6o; Telegrams—
-1 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading , Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


If you’re particular about what you drink make
sure you got Thorne’s Whisky—in the black square
bottle. It’s the spirit that particular men particu-
larly like. Its subtle, delicate flavor —invariably
mellow, smooth and satisfying—makes it very accept-
able to a discriminating man. The perfect quality
has been maintained for over 80 years.
Try THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[1
Millaquin Sugar Co. recently required a
gigantic vacuum pan and decided to have
the job done locally. Bundaberg Foundry
undertook the work and now holds the belt
as the constructor of the largest vacuum pan
made south of the Line. Capacity, 30 tons.
COMMONWEALTH
4Us
OF AUSTRALIA.
LEND YOUB MONEY TO YOUR COUNTRY
The Soldier does not grudge offering his life to his Country. He offers it freely,
for his life may be- the price of victory.
Victory cannot be won without money and YOUR money is needed.
HE SERVES WHO SAVES.
Unlike the Soldier the investor runs no risk. If you invest in the WAR LOAN
your money, both Capital and Interest, is guaranteed by the Commonwealth
Government. Repayment in full is guaranteed on the 15th December, 1925.
You cannot get better interest, better security, or greater advantages than
accompany the Loan. War Bond and Stock are free of Stamp Duty, are
accepted in payment of Commonwealth Probate and Succession duties, ex-
empt from the operation of the wealth levy, and interest is 41% per annum
is free of Income Tax, and is payable Half-Yearly.
Every Bond you buy will help to win the War and to save- the lives of our
Soldiers and Sailors.
INVEST IN THE WAR LOAN.
Forms and all information at any Bank, Savings Bank, or Post Office.
Applications close February 8, 1917.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
January, 1917.
THE HOUSE of
STEWART DAWSON
C 6707. —Fine Pearl-
and Aquamarine-set
9ct. Gold Necklet,
with Case, 60 /-
Ditto, with Pink
Tourmalines.
Price 70/-
stands for Reliability in Rings, Watches, Jewel-
lery and Silver Plate. In addition to this our
Prices show a Substantial Saving by comparison.
If you live in the Country, drop a postcard for our
ATTRACTIVE NEW CATALOGUE.
It will simplify your choice and save you money.
PATENT
11396
nnic
C 5391. —High-Grade Keyless Lever Watch, Fully
Jewelled. Accurate Timekeeper. Price, 9ct.
Gold, £6/10/-; 15ct. Gold, £9/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY
C6699.—Fine Pearl-
and Peridot-set Neck-
let, 9ct. Gold, with
IN
BANANA LAND
This is the third time Clermont has been
devastated within white-men’s days! In the
first big flood (1864) Charles Hardie Buza-
cott, the veteran journalist, had to forsake
journalism and take refuge in a tree.
Toowong Anglicans kept up Christmas by
baptising a' Jew. The Hebrew convert is
so rare a bird that the event was given all
possible publicity. Headed by a cross-bearer
and choir, the congregation marched down
to the river at the old St. Lucia ferry, and
while a lady violinist played hymns rector
Walter Scott (wearing amice, alb and
stole, which are among the vestments that
keep Archgaiters Wright awake o’ nights)
took the backsliding child of Israel in for
a dip. After priest and neophyte had
changed into dry things in a tent on the
river bank, the procession went back to St.
Thomas’s Church, where Bishop Le Fanu
was waiting to confirm the new Christian,
who had thus publicly notified his intention
of eating pork -whenever he pleased.
The gentle shepherd who looks after the
Anglican collection plate at Mackay is wor-
ried about the frequency with which crook
thrums appear therein. He writes in the
local Church Messenger :
I should be glad of any suggestions as to what
ought to be done with the big and growing stock of
bad coins which have been found in the collection
plate. Perhaps someone could think of an appro-
priate use that might be made of them if they
were melted down. In the meantime those who put
them in the plate might note that they are of no use
to the church, and that God does not accept the
sacrifice of what is of no value either to the giver
or to anybody else.
The Deity’s refusal to accept bad coins might
not matter so much if bankers and trades-
people didn’t follow His example so enthusi-
astically.
Crawford, who went out in the Clermont
flood, was a gritty fellow pursued by hard
luck. Some eight years ago he won the
Mt. Morgan seat in the Labor interest.
Within two years the party expelled him for
accepting the referendum verdict on the Bible-
in-State-schools question, as he had pledged
hi mself to do on the hustings. Thereupon Craw-
ford, in place of cadging for a Government
billet, studied for the law, qualified as a
barrister, and on his defeat at Mt. Morgan
settled down to practice, first at Mt. Morgan,
later at Clermont. He was just building up
a respectable business in the latter town
when the sluices opened and obliterated Cler-
mont —and Crawford, too. He has a brother
in the N. S. Wales Parliament.
“Boro-Belle” : There’s money in egg-shells.
A southerner who came to live up North
bought a small cutter and spent his week-
ends and holidays cruising amongst the
islands between Mackay and Bowen in quest
of birds’ eggs. At the end of a year he had
over a thousand blown shells in a variety of
delicate shades and sizes—from the tiny
sandpiper’s to those of- the great sea eagle,
whose nest consists of a ton and a half of
firewood stacked to the height of the tallest
tree on some water-washed fragment. An
egg-collector, stepping lightly, bought the lot
for £3OO.
The Dead Hand stretched out over Cler-
mont the other day with dreadful conse-
quences. The tow r n, born in the ’so’s, was
AN INSPIRATION .
VOICE ( from above): “Is that you, William ?”
BROWN (with simulated emotion): “Falsh pershured woman —you expecter ’nurrer
fell'r ”
built between a sandy creek and a lagoon.
The pioneer bark and calico palaces were
planked down anywhere on this low-lying
ground. Gradually the bark and hessian
changed to wood and iron, and then to wood
and brick, and the few fossickers became a
mixed community of' 2000. But the site of
the main part of the village didn’t change—
it still roosted, in foolish defiance of possi-
bilities, between Sandy Creek and the lagoon,
where the Dead Hand placed it over 60
years ago. Then the rain fell as though an
ocean had been turned upside down, and the
bewildered inhabitants, jambed in between
the flooded and overflowing creek and lagoon,
found themselves engulfed” before they knew
what was happening. It is certain that at
least 60 of them were swept away ; and the
casualty-list is still incomplete. “Exception-
ally heavy monsoonal rains,” say the meteor-
ologists ; but it was the Dead Hand that
turned Queensland’s annual salvation into a
curse.
“M. Jay” : When the deluge tumbled upon
Clermont the luckless town was woefully
short of coffins. Which recalls an incident.
Over 20 years ago a well-known Brisbane
P.M., who was then chairman of the Cler-
mont hospital commitee, prophetically fearing
that some dreadful scourge would overwhelm
the town and carry away a big batch of souls,
recommended that at least six coffins be kept
on hand to combat the unforeseen visitation.
The Rip Van Winkles on the committee
laughed the loud laugh of scorn, and told the
foolish chairman that Clermont would never
want as many as six boxes at a time, and
that, in any case, it was an extravagance that
could not be tolerated. So the undertaker
was never approached. What sort of a shoe
would have been flung at Mr. Chairman had
he suggested a reserve supply of 60 instead of
six ?
“MacTolga”: Up North I can show a
cedar just 24ft. in diameter. Not a mile
away from this sapling there is another
acting as an umbrella fer half an acre of
ground. When the .Lake Eacham Hotel is
started by the State, this giant will form
■ one of the scenic, marvels of the Eacham
funicular railway.
The old coolabah tree which Leichhardt
marked over 70. years ago at Taroom —it is
right in the centre of the main street—has
so far survived the vandal. The “L” is
still visible, but part of the “1844” is over-
grown. Somebody chopped a niche to sig-
nify the height of the last flood, and a sur-
veyor cut a bench-mark on the trunk; but
the limit was reached when a council
employee started to hack down the tree
altogether. The Lands Department has
now promised an iron rail to protect it.
Apropos of the Police Commissioner’s re-
signation, Home Sec. Bowman’s death was
due in some measure to a caucus row on the
question of forcing Cahill’s retirement. Bow-
man, who had already had more than one
seizure, attended the party meeting, got terri-
bly excited over the issue, and fell down on
his way back to his office. By the way, a
grant of £lOOO is being made to Bowman’s
widow.
Unforgiven.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Come close to the roots of the grass, dead
mouth,
For I have a kiss for you to-day ;
Look up from the sun-warmed earth, dear
eyes,
That almost fretted their hue away !
“The bluebells spring from their wells, I
think.
Listen awhile, O small ghost-ear,
And grow to your shell-fine curve again.
For I have a tale you would joy to hear.
“Lift up, sweet breasts, with a quickened
breath ;
Pulse, little throat, in your grave-clothes
deep;
You will listen to me at last, I know,
When I bid you dream through your grass-
bound sleep.
“Stretch out, slim arms, from your clovers
there,
Moisten your lips with your small red
tongue;
Let us beckon the bannered hours again,
The march of days when we both were
youngJ
“Oh, believe that I loved you all the time!”
A moth swoops low in the quiet grass;
There is no reply where the daisies grow—
Only the shadow of wings that pass.
Then the green grass shivers, the daisy
rocks.
“Does she heed at last, to my love grown
wise?”
And a ripple comes from the grave of her
(For the dead , can laugh) as she answers
“Lies!”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 6, 1917.
My Dear Thargomindaii, —
The tragedy at Clermont lias cast us down
into gloom. It is heartbreaking that after
having been baked by droughts for the last
few seasons, Central Queenslanders should
now be so stricken with the other hand of
Fate. Death and destitution ! In one case a
whole family, mother, father and four chil-
dren, were drowned. Food is being distri-
buted, but clothing is urgently needed, and
the Government will carry free of charge
parcels addressed to the Mayor of Clermont.
We are going to have another Button Day
to help along recruiting, and every patriotic
citizen who hands over 12d. for a decoration
is expected to at the same time part with his
or her name and address, accompanied by a
promise to work for some war cause. The
promoters mention that “naturally they will
not care to dispose of buttons to eligibles not
in khaki.” So, if you are a returned soldier,
Thargomindaii. wear your colors, or if you
have been turned down be sure you stick in
your hat an affidavit to that effect. Several
returned soldiers who do not plaster them-
selves with their battalion badges have been
urged to “get into khaki” by well-meaning
flappers. Come to think of it, well-meaning
flappers are a wearisome item in the furni-
ture of life.
Hylda Davenport, a Brisbane girl whost
fine soprano voice was trained in Europe, has
been in town for a few days, looking up old
friends. She is in love with the Blatherskite
of Berlin. Ilis war swank jolted her from
her chosen path, and instead of touring
Europe in grand opera she has been appear-
ing in musical comedy. However, if pluck
and brains count for anything, as of course
they do, the career is a winner when the dove
cooes.
Two more engagements. Miss Lucy Dick-
son, daughter of a late ex-Premier, has
accepted a binding ring from solicitor Alex.
McNab. She is clever and charming, and the
gent, is extremely popular. (Which doesn’t
mean, my dear, that he isn’t clever and
charming, too.)
Also, Commander R. Bowen has booked a
promise from Corinne Bruce Nicol. She has
done good work for patriotic movements since
the war began and is a clever artist and a
good musician. Some men have all the
luck !
Major and Mrs. Pendlebury leave us by
mail train on Tuesday. Yesterday Mrs.
Malcolm Cameron buttered the farewell
buns, and there was a little farewell gift in
between tea-sips.
Allies’ Garden City has been closed as far
as patriotic funds are concerned after mak
ing a profit of £4500. The Mayoress of Bris-
bane subsequently urged that the “City”
should be opened again for the benefit of
the sufferers in the Clermont floods. Good
souls who were due for a rest cheerfully
agreed to carry on for another 10 days. There
are more than military officers who should be
saluted in these strenuous times.
Mrs. Adolph Feez has gone to Sydney to
say good-bye to a son who sets out Hun-
strafing soon. A cousin of the youthful sol-
dier, Capt. Conran, is a bright particular star
in the fliers’ brigade. His mother was
Minnie Mole, a former Queensland belle.
Dick O’Hara, who is married to the
youngest of the Fisken trio, has been fight-
ing an attack of typhoid on his Irish acres,
where he settled after selling his Banana
sheep run. Worse still, the O’Hara infant
also contracted the complaint. So the
missus has had no time left over to tend
sick soldiers.
“Rosna’s”, note from London :
The Vernon Redwoods, of Toowoomba, gave a vocal
recital in the .Rohan Hall the other night and
struck the stiffest fog seen in this city for years. It
was so thick the taxis climbed lamp-posts and the
motor-’buses got lost and went ambling sorrowfully
round and round Trafalgar-square looking for Criekle-
wood and Tooting. Nevertheless a good many people
nobly risked their lives to pass some flora at the
musical ex-member for Toowoomba and his wife,
who have polished their top C’s in Italy and else-
where.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


fsd
The StudebaKer
u a Favorite with the Movie Stars
Annette Kellerman
Billie Burke
Anita King
Helen Holmes
Baby Zoe
and many others from
the bright constellations
in the Moving Picture
firmament own and
drive Studebaker Cars.
THE movie folk ask for
much in a motor-car ;
their sense of fitness
demands that it must be
beautiful, it must be com-
fortable. Moreover, it must
be mechanically perfect to
take them without mishap
to some of their outlying
scenes in un-get-at-abl.e
places.
They are always awheel. In
their constantly-used cars
any defects soon show up.
Theirs is the searching test
that finds out weak spots,
and the car that finds favor
among the film people is
bound to be one that has
earned its place by hard
performance.
The New and
Special Model
Studebaker
Series 17
is THE BEST of all
the STUDEBAKERS.
Send for Catalogue
&
ft JS*
'
v V 'M'ji
n
mwK'f
<Mi/
nr
: • ■/ *
'
• lt*r
~, • -
r •
-; ; , .<**«***• --■'A#*
**
" ' ■* V
r-VASS', .... H
the Screen, in her STUDEBAKER,
BILLIE BURKE, favorite behind the Footlights, and on
It
fa®
i&Bm
... - , t ... «.. . . .;... v Sj
■
■■■■■■■ir - - > •
ANNETTE KELLERMAN, shown at the wheel of her STUDEBAKER is heavily disguised; at least as compared to the way
she is hest known os o swimmer ond movie heroine.
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
State Importers :
VICTORIA— Messrs. TURNER BROS., 398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND— THE CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LTD., 95=99 Pulteney Street, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARfISTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIA W. GAHAGAN, Collins Street, HOBART ; CORRICK’S GARAGE, Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON.
NE *V ZEALAND—ADAMS LTD., CHRISTCHURCH.


A Good Boot
for BEST wear.
fsd
fds
Shapely and sup-
ple, snug-fitting
and serviceable —a
good boot typical
of made-to-order
models. New Eng-
lish shape in
Patent Coltskin.
with dull kid tops.
An admirable
model. Wide or
narrow fittings.
28/6.
Tan Willow Calf,
26/-
We / ’ay Postage.
For Distinctive Footwear.
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOITRE
A remedy for Goitre with over 3000 suc-
cesses to its credit is surely worthy of in-
vestigation. Doig’s Goitre Treatment sel-
dom fails to reduce the swelling within
two or three weeks and usually reduces
the neck to its normal graceful lines, with-
in a few months,leaving no trace. It has
succeeded in scores of cases where the
Goitre has been of many years standing
and where all other methods have failed.
Further Information Post Free on application to
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD.
Manufacturing Chemists
197 P Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Bankers: Bank of N.Z.
13
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, iust oif Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
COOK & SONS, Representatives^
ay poke
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A US TRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the- British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where thev can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
m
rt- J
r
Oe<
ccct
MB
m
V PERSISTENT-
nose or a dull,
complexion drives many '
to cosmetics and con-
despair. And all the time
lies at hand in the home
cleminite in the house you
LY shiny
life less
a woman
sequent
a simple remedy
If you have no
need only get
about an ounce from your chemist and add
just sufficient water to dissolve it. A little
of this simple lotion is Nature’s own beauti-
fier. It is very good for the skin ard in-
stantly gives the complexion a soft, velvety,
youthful bloom that any woman might envy.
It lasts all day or evening, renders powder-
ing entirely unnecessary, and absolutely
defies detection.
COSMETICS can never really help a poor
complexion; often they are positively
harmful. The sensible, rational way is to
actually remove the thin veil of stifling,
half-dead scarf skin from the face, and give
the fresh, vigorous and beautiful young skin
underneath a chance to show itself and to
breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way,
by merely applying mercolised wax at night,
like cold cream, and washing it off in the
morning. It absorbs the disfiguring cuticle
gradually and harmlessly, leaving a brilliant
natural complexion. Of course, this also
takes with it all such facial blemishes as
red blotches, tan, moth patches, sallowness,
liver spots, etc. As a freckle remover and
general complexion beautifier this old-
fashioned remedy is unequalled.
BLACKHEADS, oily skins and enlarged
pores usually go together, but can be
■.nstantly corrected by a unique new process.
A tablet of stymol, obtained from the chern-
st’s is dropped in a tumbler of hot water,
which will then of course “fizz” briskly.
Use it Daily
and look your best
Secrets of Beauty
The Cream of Modern Beauty Advice
By « MIMOSA.”
When the effervescence has subsided the face
is bathed with the stymol-charged water and
then dried with a towel. The offending
blackheads, of their own accord, come right
off on the towel, the large oily pores imme-
diately contract and efface themselves natu-
rally/ There is no squeezing, forcing or any
drastic action. The skin is left uninjured,
smooth, soft and cool. A few such treat-
ments should be taken at intervals of three
or four days thereafter in order to ensure
the permanence of the pleasing result so
quickly obtained.
BEAUTIFUL hair adds immensely to
the personal magnetism of both men
and women. Actresses and smart women
are ever on the look-out for any harmless
thing that will increase the natural beauty
of their hair. The latest method is to use
pure stallax as a shampoo on account of
the peculiarly glossy, fluffy and wavy effect
which it leaves. As stallax has never been
used much for this purpose it comes to the
chemist only in sealed original packages,
enough for twenty-five or thirty shampoos.
A teaspoonful of the fragrant stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a- cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair, apart
from its beautifying effect.
* * * *
IT is astonishing the number of women
who suffer from the humiliating afflic-
tion of superfluous hair, and I am sorry to
say that through ignorance or wrong treat-
ment the majority of them have made matters
considerably worse by causing the hairs to
grow more quickly and stronger than before.
It only requires a little thought to realise
the folly of it all. Removing the surface
growth for a few days may give temporary
relief, but in order to obtain permanent
results the hair roots must be killed. Caustic
depilatories are worse than useless, and on
no account should the hairs be pulled out.
Apart from the electric needle, which is _ a
costly and painful process, any chemist will
tell you that the best home treatment is
pure powdered pheminol, which has a de-
vitalising effect upon the hair roots, in addi-
tion to which it removes all trace of the
objectionable hair in a few seconds, and the
recommended treatment gradually, but
surely, dissolves out the hair follicles, which
is the only method of permanently ridding
oneself of this terrible disfigurement. [6
Regular users of
Icilma Cream—
the famous English
Toilet Preparation
are sweet,
dainty, attractive.
Their hands are
white and beauti-
ful—their skins are
soft and smooth
their com-
plexions are clear
and transparent.
All this because
Icilma Cream is so
different from other
toilet preparations
1
-SUMs
/
—and so much better. It is the only toilet
ere am, in the world which contains Icilma
Natural Water—this stimulates the skin and
encourages the flow of natural oils, so that
the skin is kept always soft and smooth and
of good colour. Use it daily and look your best.
Fragrant and non-greasy. Guaranteed not to grow hair.
Price 1/6 per pot.
Of Chemists , Druggists, etc . Icilma s pronounced Eye Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
A C ii. Sole Australian Agents, 1- Commerce House, Melbourne.
WOWSER ROSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rich and rare are the wowser’s roses.
Not a bud on these trees of mine!
But when he in his bed reposes
I climb into his garden fine!
Here and there do 1 glide, acquiring
Beauties heavy with scent and dew ;
Soon a lady will be admiring
Flowers of glory that 1 grew.
Old and plain is the wowser’s missus,
And he daren’t give one away.
These will gain me a dozen kisses.
“Bring them round to the flat to-day !
Oh, how sweet of vo to remember !
What a lot of them! Dear Old Boy!”
She’ll be petting me till December !
Wowser roses will bring me joy!
Long and late in his garden toiling,
Never dreaming where roses go,
When the midsummer sun is broiling,
Working with spade and rake and b:,e.
In the dusk with the cool hose spraying,
Keeping the beauties fresh for me —
Lord! I can hardly keep from saving:
“Thanks! I'll call for them after tea.’’
X.S.W.
KODAK.
■The Hindenburg worship must be bitter
medicine for the Kaiser. The rough soldier
was in disgrace for years because, disregard-
ing all the rules of the game, he beat the
Kaiser at some military manoeuvres, and
later took no trouble to soften the humilia-
tion. When the Kaiser tried to explain
away the disaster, Hindenburg growled : "If
it hadn’t been only manoeuvres, I’d have
driven your Majesty into the Baltic.” Then
Hindenburg went into retirement and re-
mained there drinking till he was wanted.
"D.F.” : The “Rev. Professor” John Howard,
now healing the afflicted in Hobart (Tas. /
and receiving donations from 2s. (id. upwards
(no fees), is none of your one-trick men.
According to his advt. he is a clairvoyant
healer, disease reader, magnopatb, officiating
minister of the Spiritual Church, and
licensed to solemnise marriages. Besides
that he observes that he is going to contest
the Franklin seat in the Reps, at the next
n ederal election and win it.
This was the answer of John Thurstans,
of Dundas (Tas.), to the usual question, put
to him the other day as a witness, about
his trade, occupation or prbfess'on:
“Licensed victualler, storekeeper, butcher,
baker, postmaster and banker.” He didn’t
bother mentioning that he was a farmer
and stockowner as well.
Flight-Commander Ball. D. 5.0., of the
British air corps, is an artist who makes the
deceased Immelmann and Boelke look small.
Recently Ball brought down his 27th Him
machine, and he has participated in over a
hundred air-scraps. He is an uninteresting-
looking youth with the cheerful rectangular
countenance of the average English athlete.
Father Bernard Vaughan, who is leading
the agitation against “race suicide” in Eng-
land, is one of 14 children, and his father
was one of 20. Archbishop Vaughan, form-
erly of Sydney, belonged to the prolific
family.
“Exile”': By police decree the people of
Berlin now have to go to bed at 11.30 p.m.,
when all the pubs close. When I was last
there they never closed day or night all the
year round, nor did the drinking cafes or
the eating restaurants. Six years ago I
went by the Nord Express from London to
Berlin. My associate, a leading electrical
London engineer, and I stayed at the
Ivaiserhof Hotel. It cost us £3 a day each,
but it was worth the money. No hotel in
London can compare with this glittering
palace. Strictly subject to the War Pre-
cautions Act, I _ venture to say that both
Berlin and Vienna are architecturally
superior to Paris and London. They pull
down the aged, soiled, moss-grown buildings
in Berlin and Vienna, while they seem to
cherish fusty, musty, gloomy structures in
London and Paris, and prop them up so as
to keep them open for ever. We went out
to dinner in a music-hall and cafe combined.
Seated in a low gallery running round three
sides of the big hall we dined and watched
a complete vaudeville performance on the
stage. There must have been 3000 people
present. Our dinner of eight courses, witli
wines ordered by my companion, began at
8 o’clock and finished with the last turn
on the stage about 11.30. Then we did a
gin crawl round Berlin from one magnificent
cafe to another for the next three hours. At
3 a.m. I asked the maitre (V hot el of an
enormous cafe-restaurant when he closed the
place, and his proud reply was “Never!”
Burglars who broke into a .South Mel-
bourne grocer’s shop the other night put the
stock of butter to a novel use. They dumped
the large squares of cowfat out of their
boxes, dabbed them all over the office safe
till it was just a huge mound of butter, and
then exploded a charge of dynamite and
blew the door out. The report, muffled
in butter, • was not heard in an adjoining
bedroom, and the thieves got away with £7O
in silver*. Some three years ago burglars at
Ballarat put a tub of butter to a similar
use, but it was the grocer himself they
muffled, sticking his head into a 201 b. mass
when he refused to be still. Perfidious
grease !
An appendix to a local State-school
marm’s merry-Christinas note :
Did yous send Susie home fer them little pimpels
on her hand? It is notheng. She straches them and
I have stuff from the kemist and put on them she
won t let it stop on 2 minets. Don’t you send her
home becos you get me into a row with her father.
You see him—he rouses on me.
“Gellibrand”: The 8.1. boat Itonus, re-
cently sunk in the Mediterranean, has done
her share of carrying horses and stores for
the A.I.F. Luckily she was empty when her
end came. Before the 8.1. got her she was
owned by old Currie, of Melbourne, who
adopted a curious form of christening. The
names of his vessels began with successive
letters of the alphabet and all ended with
“us.” Starting with the Argus, he built the
Clitus, Darius, Euryalus, Fortunatus
(burned at sea), Gracchus, Hymettus.
Itonus. Janus. Then the 8.1. bought him
out. I forget the B boat, but it wasn’t
Bacchus.


LivEßciMPfi Pictures
by
Chamberlain's
Tablets -
EJ
a
u
A
3
tel
f.V >
!. ov i
to
©
(P
*4
ss
BS2
&cj/
Sour Stomach is Nature’s way of protesting against
improper food hastily devoured or too hearty meals.
If the warning is unheeded serious
results will follow. When your stomach
rebels at this abuse it becomes inactive,
your food ferments, gases form and
there is trouble ahead.
The quickest, safest and surest way
to conquer this condition and prevent
its return is to take a course of Cham-
berlain’s Tablets for the stomach and
liver.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will soon put
things in order again. They are just
what you need for stomach troubles.
A man is seldom sick when his
bowels are regular and never well when
they are irregular. Bear this in mind
and take Chamberlain’s Tablets as occas-
ion may require. There is nothing
better. They are mild and gentle in
their action and are pleasant to take.
Thousands of families use them as their
standard family medicine, and you will
find for biliousness, constipation, belch-
ing, gases on the stomach, foul breath,
headache, bloating, etc., there is nothing
to equal
eclains Tablets
The Stomach o Liver.
bed with at night and get up with in the
morning;—it is a sure sign that your sys-
tem is out of order. To refresh yourself
and regain that sti'ong, vigorous feeling
you should take a course of Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They will strengthen your
stomach and stimulate your liver and
bowels to renewed activity; although you
have not realised it, it is these organs
that have caused that tired feeling. There
is no better medicine made for all dis-
orders of the stomach, liver and bowels
than Chamberlain’s Tablets.
The road to ruin begins when constipa-
tion and biliousness fasten themselves on
you and drag down your health. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets cure these disorders and
successfully build up your strength and
health.
Boils and pimples are Nature’s
effort to throw off poisons which have
formed in the blood. Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets cleanse the stomach, liver and bowels,
thus purifying the blood and refreshing
the system until you feel a new being.
Take a course of Chamberlain’s Tablets
to thoroughly eradicate the poisonous mat-
ter from the system and then make a
practice of taking one at regular intervals,
and you will never again be troubled with
boils.
It is a folly for old folks to allow the
bowel debility of age to master them, as it
naturally makes them age faster each day.
By using Chamberlain’s Tablets, safe and
pleasant relief can always be had. There
is no griping.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will clear the
sour stomach, sweeten the breath and
create a healthy appetite. They promote
the flow of gastric juice, thereby inducing
good digestion.
LONG RIDES
over rough roads simply serve to emphasize that
perfection in construction and design which is
responsible for the perfect comfort of the
BROOKS
OF all dealers
o
o.
T:
"liir:
m
z&K
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which you
are interested and full particulars will come to you by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q,
✓
PERFECTION in DESIGN MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP
:a”
%
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
> ■- II 'M
sssrs£
THE “SKANDIA” IN WEST AUSTRALIA.
PEARLING SCHOONER—3O=h.p. “SKANDIA.”
NELSON $ ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
'£
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Though a few “Live to eat,” the great
majority “Eat to live,” but when your
digestion is faulty, eating causes your life
to be a misery. To propei’ly nourish your
body your food must be thoroughly digested
and its various constituents pass to the
organs for which they are intended.
When this is not done the food does you
no good, but rather harm, for it lies in
your stomach, causing poisonous gases
and disorders of the stomach —causes con-
stipation, which means that the food, in-
stead of being expelled through the bowels,
lies there, and the poisonous matter is
absorbed into the system. All this can
be avoided by taking a course of Cham-
berlain’s Tablets. They aid digestion,
cleanse the stomach, stimulate the liver
and bowels to perform their work, and in-
vigorate the system in so doing. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets are the safest Cathartic
to take, for they perform their work so
gently and naturally that there is no fear
of inflammation following.
No one thing is more conducive to good
health than the daily evacuation of the
bowels. If your habit is not regular in
this respect you need a general laxative
and tonic, and this is precisely what you
get when you buy an eigliteenpenny box
of Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach
and liver. They eliminate all impurities
and tone the system at the same time.
A disordered stomach may cause no end
of trouble. When the stomach fails to
perform its functions the bowels become
deranged, the liver and kidneys congested,
causing numerous diseases, the most fatal
of which are painless and therefore the
more to be dreaded. The important thing
is to restore the stomach and liver to a
healthy condition, and for this purpose
no better preparation can be used than
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
If you were able to live just right all
the time there would be little need
for medicine, less need for doctors. But
some little thing is constantly coming
along to put us out of balance —exposure,
change of diet or drinking water, irregu-
lar meals are little things that will at
times upset the best of us. Nothing
particular the matter, but we don’t feel
good. At such times the wise among us
will take a few doses of Chamberlain’s
Tablets with certain knowledge that they
will put us right, right away.
Many women habitually suffer from
headaches which make life a daily purga-
tpry, _ Frequently they are caused by in-
digestion, and to relieve them permanently
you must remove the cause. For indi-
gestion, biliousness, constipation, disorders
of the stomach and liver there is nothing
better than Chamberlain’s Tablets. Head-
ache cannot exist when Chamberlain’s
Tablets are taken.
Back up a sewer and you will poison
the whole neighborhood, clog up the liver
and bowels and your system is full of
undigested food, which sours and fer-
ments —this means indigestion, headache,
bad breath, yellow skin and everything
that is horrible. Chamberlain’s Tablets
quickly stop fermentation in the stomach,
and they make the liver lively, tone up
the bowels and set the whole machinery
going.
Much ill-health is due to impaired diges-
tion. If the stomach fails to perform its
functions the whole system becomes de-
ranged. A few doses of Chamberlain’s
Tablets is all you need. They will
strengthen your digestion, stimulate your
liver and regulate your bowels, entirely
removing that miserable feeling due to
faulty digestion. Chamberlain’s Tablets
have relieved many people who have been
acute sufferers from indigestion, so why
not give them a chance to relieve you?
It is not natural to have that tired feel-.
ing day in and day out, that you go to


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILD REN’S FOOD.”
jOegal Notices.
WHEREAS by an Order of the High Court of
Justice Chancery Division dated 17th July 1916
made in the matter of the Estate of GEORGE
POCOCIv deceased and in an action of PITHIE and
another v. POCOCK and others (1916 P. 821) the
following inquiry was directed namely:—
“An Inquiry whether FRANCIS ALDERSEY
TURNOUR POCOCK (a son of GEORGE PEARCE
POCOCK) is living or dead and if dead when he
died and whether he died under the age of 21 years
and if he attained the age of 21 years whether he
died testate or intestate and who is now beneficially
entitled to his share under the Will of the Testator
GEORGE POCOCK.”
Notice is hereby given that the said FRANCIS
VLDERSEY TURNOUR POCOCK or any person or
persons . claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry are personally or by his or their Solicitors on
or before Tuesday the Ist May 1917 to come in and
prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice
Sargant and Mr. Justice Younger at the Royal Courts
of Justice Strand London England and to enter
their names and the particulars of their claims in
a book kept for that purpose in Room 299 at the
said Royal Courts of Justice or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order. Tuesday the Bth day of May 1917
at 11 of the clock in the forenoon at the said Cham-
bers (Room 297) is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this 6th day of November 1916.
RICIID. WHITE
Master.
NOTE. —The said FRANCIS ALDERSEY
TURNOUR POCOCK is the son of George Pearce
Pocock and Fanny Pocock. He sailed from England
for Adelaide Australia in July 1863 being then of
the age of 16 years. He is believed to have gone
into the country stock keeping and when last heard
of he was going to New South Wales.
BIRD & ELDRIDGES,
10 Great James Street,
Bedford Row, London, W.C.
Agents for Moore Rawlins & Vicary, of Lymington,
Hants.
Solicitors for the plaintiffs.
l N DIVORCE. IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW ZEALAND. NORTHERN DISTRICT. No. 991.
Between ELIZABETH MACKENZIE, of the City of
Auckland, wife of Alexis Greig Mackenzie, Petitioner,
and ALEXIS GREIG MACKENZIE, late of Auckland,
Canvasser, Respondent.
To ALEXIS GREIG MACKENZIE, formerly of
Auckland, Canvasser, but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
18th day of November, 1916, has issued out of this
Court citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of ELIZABETH MACKENZIE of Auckland, praying
for a dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds that you have deserted her for 5 years and
upwards without just cause. TAKE NOTICE that
by an Order of this Court dated the Bth day of
December, 1916, it was ordered that personal ser-
vice on the Respondent of the Petition and Citation
be dispensed with, and that service be effected by
advertising an abstract of the Petition and Citation
to be settled by the Registrar of this court at Auck-
land twice in the Sydney Bulletin and .twice in one
daily newspaper published in the City of Auckland,
and that an appearance and answer be filed within 90
days after the date of the insertion of the last of
such advertisements and that the trial be at the
First sittings of this Honorable Court in Divorce, to
be held at Auckland after the expiration of 110 days
from the last appearance of such advertisements as
aforesaid. If you wish to enter an appearance you
must within the time above-mentioned attend in
person or by a Solicitor at the Registry of this
Court at Auckland, and there enter an appearance
in a book provided for the purpose. In default of
your so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition, and you will not be allowed to
address the Court.
Dated at Auckland this 18th day of December,
1916.
(Sgd.) R. G. THOMAS, Registrar.
This abstract is published by Archibald Peak, of
Wyndham Street, Auckland, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner. A copy of the Petition may be inspected at
the office of Messrs. Walker & Peak, Wyndham Street,
Auckland, or at the Auckland Registry of the
Court. Friends of Respondent are requested to for-
ward this advertisement to him.
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd.
ELECTRIC CABLE FOR MINING
PURPOSES FOR SALE.
37/16 and 37/12 Double-armored,
Single-core Bitumen Cable, suitable
for 600 Volts D.C.
37/12 and 19/16 Single-armored,
Single-core Bitumen Cable, 600
Volts D.C.
For particulars apply to
THE HETTON COAL CO. LTD,
56 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
M©1
A £l4 Machine
Sirs, £8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
THE SECRET.
He has discovered the secret
of those beautiful English
Gardens he has seen, and so,
will you if you send for
RYDERS ILLUSTRATED
SEED CATALOGUE,
sent FREE to any address.
This book shows how to
buy the best quality
seeds in convenient
Penny Packets. Send to-
day for Catalogue.
RYDER & SON, Ltd.
Seed Merchants,
St. Albans, ENGLAND
I
fb &
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tlieatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
TIVOLI T II E A T 11 E, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WQRLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
IYOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Grand Reappearance of
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
VERA PEARCE, JACK CANNOT, GEORGE
WELCH, WALTER WEEMS, THELMA RAYE,
DAISY and SYDNEY YATES, FRED BLUETT,
BILLY REGO, and others.
Plan at Glen's.
E R M A J E S T V ’ S, SY I) N E V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Return of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
including FLORENCE YOUNG, with
THU CINUMA STAR.
Most Resplendent of the Theatrical Firmament.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
It I T EltlON T HE A T RE, SYDNEY.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce FLORENCE
ROCKWELL, FRANK HARVEY and an able Com-
pany of Dramatic Associates, in
THE HOUSE OE GLASS.
By MAX MARCIN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales YYhite Rose.
II EAT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY
Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
The Popular BERT BAILEY CO. present STEELE
RUDD’S
ON OUR SELECTION.
BERT BAILEY as DAD.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees as Usual.
Return of J. & N. TAIT’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
The most popular of all plays. Plans at Nicholson’s.
WHIT E Cl T Y
TO-NIGHT.
7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlingliurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
r
TUI ANGLE PLAYS AT
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session ;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30 ; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Rahiungton Millku, Managing Director.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
Theatre royal., m elbohrne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present William C. de
Mille’s Powerful Dramatic Story,
THIS WOMAN.
Prices as usual. _
RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 13.
First Appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER.
Popular Prices.
INCUS THEATRE, IIEIBOIIRN E.
Lessees... .Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 13.
Reappearance of Allen Doone in his New Play,
by Theo Burt Sayre,
HAPPY-GO-LUCKY O’SH EA.
Popular Prices.
Arcadia, st. kieda, Melbourne.
Direction NIGEL BROCK PTY. LTD.
THE PINK DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glen’s
and Habers’.
yHE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
FOUR SESSIONS DAILY,
2, 3.30, 7.30 and 9.
LAST DAYS OF
WHERE ARE MY CHILDREN?
A forceful sermon in Moving Picture form.
Prices 6d. and 1/- during afternoon.
6d., 1/- and 2/- at night.
Y H E AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY, JANUARY 13.
E. .J. CARROLL presents
A CINEMA THEATRICAL ENTERTAINMENT,
RAMONA.
FULL SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
Prices as usual.
Bircii & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURK MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
iluAn Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
CUL L E R’S HOTEL, MELBOURNE
■ (adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Business Notices.
The Lake Breeze Motor
f
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street) SYDNEY)
u
THE BEST
SMOKE
is
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
Business Notices.
'NCUBAtO
A
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Pride 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R, CASTON & CO., Dept. H„
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT;
Tlie Remedy used by Afrtty and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
For Show Cases, Metal Signs, Door Plates and all
polished metal, brass, silver, nickel, eto.
v*vn , m'V'i! iy»yvivnt , rwmv *r r ff
fcRV.UKHTSmt.
C '/4ii,d Hi l MlliUUlUlA kUtUii.kL.UIUtKW
METAL POLISH
will put a lasting luster on quicker than
anything else. Safe to use. Oonvenlent
in form. Sold in two size cans by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug Stores.
Look for the Photo on Can
dsf
The NEW
EDISON
The one Re-creation
machine in the world
No one but Mr. Edison has ever been able to
recreate music so that the recreation cannot
be distinguished from the original. Mr.
Edison alone has achieved this wonderful
result, which has revolutionised sound-repro-
duction.
To understand what this means you should
HEAR The NEW EDISON and judge for
yourself.
Write AT ONCE for a fully illustrated and
very interesting catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
IiORLICKS
malt edmiu
a*
4
«S-
-(
h CSV
■0
/'
•:<S»
07V
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
SEE THAT YOURS GETS IT.
You will be rewarded by the way
in which he (or she) responds to
its strengthening qualities.
Delicious. Palatable. Easily Digested.
Made in a .Moment. No Cooking.
Full particulars and sample sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps by
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26, Jamieson St., Sydney.
* V
E 3.
li
rsA
K
m
50
9t
If any illustration appearing m
Bulletin takes your fancy, wri ® ®
Manager, who will quote you price or


SKIN TROUBLES
THAT TORTURE
13S
Rp
&
and Disfigure
Quickly
Healed by
CUTICURA
SOAP
and
OINTMENT
Such as eczemas, rashes,
pimples, dandruff, sore
hands and most baby
skin troubles*
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
Hunters of Big Game
use the Ross .280 Rifle and its
Special Sporting Cartridge (Pat’d)
Every day we receive letters praising the
accuracy and low trajectory of our .280
High Velocity Rifle and the tremendous
shocking power of the Ross .280 Sporting
Ammunition with copper tube expanding
bullet—patented.
The combination is esteemed, by the hun-
dreds of expert sportsmen and guides who
use it, to afford the very best equipment
for any hunter of larger game.
/ You increase the
' chances of a suc-
cessful trip by
having the Ross
. 280 and its Special
Sporting
Ammunition
Catalogue on applica-
tion to
Ross Rifle Go.
Quebec, Canada
mmgs
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 10.31, Melbourne, Australia.
ELE
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
‘ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
1£ oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
(Eft
88
m
Sr
m
&
a
m
p
m
m
m
M
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitre*
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
E LE Y BROS. L? LONDON
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest a nd most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the M orld. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.G., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.; F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £2O 670,000.
, The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay. * H
The Tootal Guaranteed line of British-made Cotton Fabrics
TOOTALS GUARANTEE IT
Regd.
i. : r
YOU have only to see and
handle Tobralco to know
that it is an exceptionally
sound wash-fabric—the most re-
liable, as the most popular, of all
British wash cottons. Smart
designs, indelible colors; splendid
in the wash, easily laundered
without starch. Name on every
yard of selvedge.
White
12id.
per yard.
Colored and Printed
13id.
per yard.
To be had from all Good-class Stores
dsf
Keg
TARANTULLE
fp>
' Hamiy Home Sewn.
n " jx i
% eme- (S Babys V\/e
Another homeland favorite—beautiful
to the eye and to the touch, yet
dependable and economical. Free
from dressing, a boon to the tender
skin. See name on selvedge.
40 inches wide, in 3 weights. STANDARD, 1/1J; FINE, 1/6 ; SUPERFINE, 1/9,
Other Tootal Guaranteed Lines
TOOTAL PIQUE. Double width, soft and
nipple. In white and colors.
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN. Ready to
wear, replaced free if they lose color.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for Ladies’ and
Children's wear.—32 inches wide.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
LADIES. Self-white and indelible borders.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
MF'N. Self-white and indelible borders.
TOOTAI. CLOTH. The guaranteed velvet
fabric—more supple than silk velvet.
Tootal Broadhurst Lee Company, Ltd., Manchester, England
A crptif Q • STOGDALE & SONS PTY. Ltd., Finks Buildings,
/Australian Agents . Melbourne, and York street, Sydney
m
uacemia
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
'J'HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tome, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has beem enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general ‘ fitness” and well-being.
~ , ® r ' -Andrew Wilson wrote :—"lmpoverished blood can be made rich and good
by means of Iron Jetlo.ds, ’ the most effective and desirable treatment."
A FORTNIGHI' S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
r . , Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6, Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by The Jelloid' Co.. 205, City Road. London. England.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience : the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
&WA
FOWHTPSN.
THE
SOLDIERS’
PEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Bequest.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W,C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, S Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorgiSt., Sydney
dsf
The Inky Way.
“Copy Buy”: Fred Whitehead, of Mel-
bourne Herald, one of the best of Yarraside
pressmen, is exchanging his fountain-pen for
a bayonet. During the conscription campaign
lie was lent by the Herald to the National
Referendum Council and battled heart and
soul to secure a "Yes” vote. If conscrip-
tion hau been carried, as a married man he
would have gone in his turn ; when it was
defeated he decided that it was no longer
desirable to stand upon the order of going,
but to go; so he waited only to adjust his
private affairs and then enlisted. Whitehead,
who used to be a public-schoolmaster, has
adorned many parts of the Inky Way. He
was. chief-of-staff of Adelaide Daily Herald
in its early days, and was one of the
Argus’s Parliamentary men before joining
the office round the corner. He has always
been an active member of the A.J.A., and
edits the Australian Journalist when
secretary Brickhill is away on an arbitra-
tion or such-like job-
* * * *
“Weka”: Done for and “dissed” at Alex-
andra (M.L.), John Johnson Ramsay, editor
of the local Herald. The luck that has
made many a lesser light shine brightly was
never his. As a lad, his first job in M.L.
was driving a team on the Otago Goldfields.
He next shouldered an encumbered farm,
and after a drought booted it to Dunedin.
The dredging boom was in full swing, so
T.J. stuck out his plate as a sharebroker.
Subsequently he took the first bridle-track
to the Taieri, and ran the Taieri Advocate.
Having no success, he hoofed it to Omakau,
the terminus of the Otago Central Railway,
and just got a forwarding agency going when
the Government pushed the line'on to Clyde.
Ten minutes after the railway arrived at
its new destination .T.J. was on the premises,
but he soon headed for Wellington, and a
little later was appointed manager of the
Weraroa Experimental Farm. Then he
went to Te Aroha, had three consecutive
shots at Parliament and missed. A few
years ago he returned to the goldfields and
purchased the Alexandra Herald, which he
was editing when Peter sent his record to
press.
* * * *
1v.8.M.”: The hustle of Mclntosh on
.Sydney Sunday Times has started the Sun
people'moving. The management has seen
that the Sunday Sun, if it is to keep where
it wants to be, must have special ideas and
special brains shoved into it. The wise men
of Goshen can tell you all the shapes the
ideas will take, of course, but all that is
actually apparent to date is that papa Deni-
son has switched all the time and grey
matter of editor Monty Grover over to the
Sunday edition. Campbell Jones remains
Lord High Managing-Editor, Adam McCay
is editing the daily edition, Del McCay gets
into brother Adam’s shoes as associate-
editor, and Bill Lyne, as soon as his hoppy
leg permits, will be news-editor.
Laurie Taylor, the Sydney poster-artist
now in London, whose black-and-white
work is known to Bulletin readers, has a
Picture, “Peel Harbor, 1.0. M.,” in the
Autumn Exhibition at the Walker Galleries,
lie is also running a series of war drawings
in the Bystander, and designed the cover
for the Christmas number of Pearson’s.
* * * *
Will Hope, a Maoriland black-and-whitbr
and contemporary of David Low, is pushing
himself under the notice of Yankee editors.
The other day his persistence secured him a
post on a St. Louis daily, for which he is
now doing three cartoons a week.
A FELLOW-CRAFTSMAN ENLISTS.
(To F.J.W.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A pressman once a pressman aye—of most of us
’tis true;
But you have done with black and white: the Bed
God calls to you.
The column that your headlines bore another’s job
becomes —
The column now that gives you space is headed by
the Drums.
For all you played the game so well, ’twas merely
make-believe;
Fate meant you for a sergeant, with a chevron on
your sleeve;
Though copy sagged the pockets of the coat you
used to don,
We knew we’d see you, some day, with your dusty
khaki on!
Your old employ is ended well; the new is well
begun ;
Of all assignments booked to you not one was badly
done ;
The files you filled bear witness that your work was
found worth while—
’Twill prove its value now you fill another kind of
file.
Though featly you employed the steel wherewith
your pars, were writ,
The nib sufficed not for your need : a broader blade
more fit
You found to reach the hearts of men, more worthy
to be met;
The wit and grit that sped your pen shall speed
your bayonet!
We place beside the much you did the little that
you said—
The nonchalance that oft deceived, the silence that
misled,
The thoughtful taciturnity, the unresponsive mood
Beside the vigor of your work —and know that it
was good.
Henceforward must the formes be locked wherein no
longer lurk
The stories where the tradesman’s touch bespoke
your handiwork;
Henceforward copy shall be spiked which other
hands must write ;
Henceforward you shall live the things you put in
black and white.
0 fellow-craftsman, take this wish for all that it is
worth—■
A pledge of fair remembrance to the lads of all the
earth!
Your comrades rise to watch you go.... Right well
they understand
That he must have a soldier’s heart who has the
craftsman's hand.
VICTORIA.
G. I.


SPORTING RIFLES
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
——FIREARMS EMBARGO LIFTED.
The military restriction prohibiting the sale of GUNS,
REVOLVERS AND AMMUNITION having been removed, we
supply these goods to the sporting public.
RIFLES,
can now
ds
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in., round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Jlb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
13/0
fds
“Splendid for all small game.”
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire, magazine
takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-liardeued
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, s*lb.
take-down. Carriage paid
90/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of QUNS and RIFLES.
M 83!
y*
“Suitable for small game and target shooting.”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating’
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 4^lb; slide action,
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
.45/'
fds
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model.
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4Jlb.;
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
30/-
35/-
.
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about 041 b. ..
55/-
f
“Pimple and extra strong in construction.”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all, 37iin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
27/6
‘ Sure Catch” Anglers’ Guide & Price List Post Free.
sf
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
New Edition Sports and Firearms List—Post Free.
22/6
IMS l'»
HAYI'IARKET
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4-CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
as
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
fsd
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The True Safeguard
of Baby’s Health
•Menbnrgs Foods
THE milk of a healthy mother confers a de-
gree of immunity to infection to the young
infant. Many mothers, however, though
willing, cannot nurse their babies for various
reasons. In such cases the greatest care should
be taken in selecting a proper substitute. Ordi-
nary cow’s milk cannot be regarded as a safe
food for infants; it is acid, contains indigestible
curd, and is almost invariably contaminated
with harmful germs. By using the “Allenburys”
Foods, which are free from all dangerous
organisms, and effectually replace human
milk, security for baby is ensured and vigorous
growth and health are promoted. The
“Allenburys” Foods are largely used and
recommended by the Medical and Nursing
Professions; they have stood the test of time
and have become a household necessity all
over the world.
The ‘Allenburys’ Infant Dietary
3
J
lof>°
MILK FOOD No. I.
From Birth to 3 months
sfiinque^
opocn
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 7 months
a
jy TMi
“ • "rr.v
!au-uCffiS-JSS
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From 7 months upwards.
Pf* Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management **
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen £$ Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney.
Established 1715.
—Oft -M-UNBURYS’ Fg efw
Simplest and Best.
O-Uto"
iggtj
I3D
ifesj
a I
liinK
mm
EM.
i f
ma
Lb
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes fron
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all ■
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.
Tally
m
r
j~r i
Make Yeur
Own Cans.
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is 5000
or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, prices and pictures of machines
adapted to your needs. Send us sapiples.-'
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make.
Correspondence in all Languages.
Address Dept. C-14.
The Max Ams Machine Company
Bridgeport, Conn .
H. VV. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.


The “Wandering Bushman”
in the “Bunyip” praises
*
Miss NELLIE NOLLE
(from a photo.).
Rexona
Miss Nellie Kolle seems to
become a greater favorite every
year that she appears before the
public. It is enough for her to
sing a song for it to be popular
and to command a large sale.
She has a following all her own,
and as the wandering Bushman
in “The Bunyip” she establishes
herself nightly afresh in the hearts
of her admirers :—-
After trying all other Soaps
I find no other suits me so
admirably as Rexona Soap. I
use it for washing off make-
up in the theatre every night,
and could not be without it.
I also use it for my hair and
occasionally as a dentifrice,
for which it is excellent.
Rexona, too, is the best thing
of its kind I have come
across—it does all it professes
to do.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) NELLIE KOLLE
(England’s Male Impersonator)
REXONA SOAP GIVES
NATURAL BEAUTY TO
SKIN AND HAIR.
Tliat natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated, ® a ? ke obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary Toilet Soaps do no
assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to d ry the ski
and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can JJIJ u n Z
cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same he f a 1
antiseptic balsams as Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treat-
ment of skin affections is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it d ®*® ”°* *
and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and iea-ve the comp e
clear, fresh and velvety. Rexona, 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
0
o
o
SKIN & FACIAL
MEDICATED SOAP
li
iTiimiiiill
Aren’t You Glad You Came?
Says the dainty little hostess of the picnic, as she holds
up to the view of everybody the tin of
REX Camp Pie
that someone very thoughtfully slipped into the basket.
And there are few dissenting voices.
“BEX” CAMP PIE is wonderful Picnic Fare. Just slice it up or
make Sandwiches of it. If possible have some kind of Salad with
it.
Incidentally keep a tin or two on your pantry shelf regularly this
Summer time.
“BEX” CAMP PIE is made from the choicest compounded rneats,
carefully minced, seasoned 'and packed with a delectable Jelly.
Ready to serve and eat when you open the tin.
Sold by Grocers Everywhere.
Ask also for
Rex Luncheon Cheese
Tie piquant, economical liuncheon
Cheese that is perfectly digestible.
It can be spread easily—no butter is
needed.
!mmmm
CHfcFSf
G&Zi'ZiWfftij!* r*V:'
J
iiW ; i
Ask also for—
“Bex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Bex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Bex” Pork and Beans, lilb. tins.
“Bex” Brand Lard for Cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
“Bex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Bex” Pig's’ Peet in Jelly, lib.
tins.
“Bex” liunch Tongue in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Bex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “Rex” Hams & Bacon*.
Parkers of “Rex” Pure Food Products. B 1.
Folly Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE played for stakes we could not
win.
(God bless the Devil!)
The peach was ripe on the tree of sin
Vnd the lawns of Eden lush and level.
tvl saw the winking planets spin ;
To a Columbine world we were Harlequin.
(God bless the Devil!)
The choir-boys passed in pure array.
(God bless the Devil!)
Would they sing us white as the bough ot
May, ■ , . e
Whose souls were red with the wine ot
revel? , . .
But a brown maid tripped through the
orchard way, , , ~
And a white maid’s feet in the dusk would
stray.
(God bless the Devil!)
A priest to fill the spicbd bowls.
(God bless the Devil!) _
Mirth treads her stockings to skin-pink holes I;
But the wine in the cask will keep its level.
Drink high! Drink low ! Though a kiss be
coals i
To burn a harvest of sin-glad souls —
God bless the Devil 1
Oh, shrive ine clean and let llic go !
(God bless the Devil!)
There’s a joy tihchased in the Woods below
Where Pan is piping all foois to revel,
with sin for a shaft and song for a bow,
1 follow the way that the glad knaves know.
(God bless the Devil!)
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Petroleum Hunting,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITH thi-ee Fijians, Saifo, Beni and
Another, With an Arab engineer
and a returned Australian of
Gallipoli, We left Suva on a good tide
through Lahthala Bay to the delta country
of that noble river, the Ilewa, as like the
Clarence as Viti LevU is like North Queens-
land. It is navigable 80 miles, and the
great caiiefiolds that feed Nausori Mill and
the mud-fat cattle standing in the high grass
made it the more like the rivet from Har-
wood towards Grafton. There is a great
exteiit Of this delta country Of the ReWa
and its tributaries cutting up the country
frOnl the rivet eastwards to the sea with
Small rivers sUch as the Wainibokasi And
the Nakelo. So past Butata to the sea at
NavUlOa, tlieh Nambua and the island of
Bail, once the throiie of Cakobau. Leaving
the thatch houses on their coral patch _we
went to sea again or rather aground. Saito,
refreshed by eating great wads of food what
time his eyes rolled their whites in ecstasy,
ieaped overboard. Beni followed, and the
other dragged the launch through the shal-
lows, The retreating tide left acres of
coral trash uncovered; in the shallows
around Rau natives walking, as in the sea
far from land, dragged their flat-bottoms
over the shoals. Thus at last we came to
Verata, Beni’s village on the mainland.
The cliffs of tufas and mudstone hid _ a
village of long thatched houses, breadfruit,
banana, mango and dracenas; plump women
hUrging chocolate babies; yellow brown girls
With frizzled hair; small boys with their
hair drawn to topknots and a frizzled ring
of hair at the neck; decrepit old natives,
thin in the shanks; a woman bent double
and hobbling on a stick to the village spring.
As we walked up the steep shell-paved track,
a small boy and a small girl, three years
old or so, both pot-bellied from much yam
and taro and both naked, each snatched up
a great glossy leaf of the breadfruit and
covered themselves as did Adam and Eve.
Who had told these babies that they were
naked? Nobody before the native women
began to wear slop-chest skirts. So pro-
bably the snake that destroyed Eden was a
draper. Certainly many a home has dated
its ruin from a bargain sale.
In the chief’s house a little girl of four
—one Mariseana —captured me quickly, and
thereafter the children followed us. Thank
God, children are always the same, no mat-
ter how maturity dirties or the foolishness
of old men makes miserable the world;
black, brown or wdiite, children are the same
the world over. So Mariseana stood by
while we were there-—my little friend, who
is the color of a well-polished tan boot. In
the house, while the rain of afternoon fell
and brought the dark, the women at the
mat-making spoke with a fine softness of
voice, the complement of these grave, sensi-
tive gentlemen of Fiji. I wanted to get to
work at once, but the soldier warned me of
the dangers of precipitancy with these
people. Beni broke the matter to the Chief
Tavite, who liked our mission not at all.
So we made presents of kava, and the kava
stone began crushing—to have few intervals
of silence before half-past two next morning.
Fowls shrieked without and died for our
dinner; Sairo, bored because he wasn’t eat-
ing, told the assembly that the soldier had
been four times wounded at Gallipoli; the
soft-voiced women became shrill and the
courteous men eager. So by-and-bye they
had his shirt rolled down from the shoulder
to see the places where Sir Bullet made his
exits and his entrances; and some with-
drew to bring others of the village and see
the man home from the wars. They must
put their fingers into the cicatrices too —a
natural thing, Doubting Thomas being not
so incredulous as inquisitive.
Mariseana, although four years old, knew
already how to use her eyes, and squatted
by me holding my hand. The lollies arrived
and the children sat in heaven ; but the one
half-caste child in the lot showed his greedy
breeding, always with his hand out and
lifting the spoils of the gentlemanly full-
bloods. Then the kava came with all cere-
mony and presented on the bended knee;
to be drunk in a draught to handclaps and
cries of “Bula” and “Vinaka,” as the drink-
ing in one draught shows good health and
good wind.
While the kava was prepared they brought
us another honor —the singing of the kava
song, the man presenting the bowl, held on
a level with his eyes, almost crouching as
he offered it to the cardinal points of the
compass. Followed the presentation of the
whale’s tooth to the chief, the long, grace-
ful thanks like a prayer, the eloquence of
the gratified like an invocation. I drank
the astringent peppery and rather soapy-
flavored water —a drying of the mouth fol-
lowed, and a coolness as when the forehead
is rubbed with menthol, and a cleaning of
the mouth as by olives. The yangona, or. to
give it the name mostly used in foreign
parts, kava, is a great crop these days, for
the Fijian doesn’t grow the root now—h§
buys it of the white man, the Indian or the
Chinese storekeeper. It has the property of
making iridescent the tanoa or wooden kava-
bowl after long usage, and the cocoauut
shell used as drinking cups. These are
scraped very thin and are of much beauty of
form for the chiefs; the inside of the shell
long used shines with a pearly iridescence,
deepening into the bluish purple on the
skin of passion-fruit. I do hope I am not
iridescent in the interior,
The lights made that beautifully-built
house of round timber and walls of orna-
mented reed and heavy thatch more decora-
tive ; the big cowries, denoting a chief’s
home, hung from the guests’ entrance. The
moneyed Indian in Fiji is not content With
one of these native houses, because they are
too cheap. lie builds a galvanised-iron
horroi*, having apparently learned that fool-
ishness of a missionary, who knows that
God can be happy only in a tin house.
Meantime the kava went Up and down
and they talked war and Occasionally of my
business there, but skating with much deli-
cacy around the talk of a petroleum seepage
in the village. Then they sent the commoner
men away, and an old woman who talked
out of her tUrtt, saying that in her days
the “karaseni’’ in the spring had been so
thick that it crackled ih the fire when it
burned, Was told that women must be
silent in the presence of men, and was sent
out of the house. They got back to the
war, and the returned soldier described a
fight with the Kai Germans and the Kai
Turks, in which he Used the term “Kai
Scotchmen”; whereat one old man asked
the Big Chief who were the “Kai Scotch.”
To that the Chief replied : “The Scotch are
the teeth of the English.”
Rut all we could learn of the petroleum
seepage Was the story which had brought us
there. Up to thirty years ago it was visible,
and then a missionary named Lindsay, either
to protect the native from losing the thing
he couldn’t use or to leave it as an asset
for the missionary when his missionising
should be overpast, commanded his flock
to fill in the bathing-place and never to
show the seepage to a white man lest the
ghost responsible for the petroleum should
bring a curse to the village, causing them
to lose their land. For this had they filled
the hole in and their superstition showed
in their faces when they demurred to dis-
covering to us the site of the old bathing-
place.
Now, a bigger chief than our host had
ordered the village to respect us and serve
us and do all we should desire; none should
laugh at the white chief, all should do
him honor; the freedom of the city was his
and the people. Wherefore the golden yel-
low girls of the meke cast down their eyes.
Te Deum laudamus.
But when the talk got on to “karaseni”
the chief’s name became oyster, and next
morning he went bush, so that we did not
see him again. He believed in the ghost all
right.
And there were others. After about eight
drinks of kava, had with all due ceremony,
a dignified gentleman, full of the grog which
is non-alcoholic, but has some drug quality
such as cocaine, so that it leaves the head
clear and numbs the legs, arose and went to
the guest door. Outside the rain fell thickly
and the gentleman in the blue sulu was very
careful of his hair; keeping his head in
cover of the thatched eaves, he shouted
words that were certainly insulting and full
of bad language. He then spat twice
viciously at the rain, and returned to his
seat near the kava bowl, accepting the
applause carefully and as if it were his due.
“To whom did he use the bad language?”
I asked.
“To the ghost. He called the ghost filthy
names, spat on him and sent him to
Navilua.”
“Why Navilua?”
“This town used to fight the Naviluans,
and our boys have no respect for them now.”
“And will the ghost stay where he is
put?”
“No —he’ll come back, and that chap will
spit on him and send him somewhere else.”
Twice in the next hour the dignified
gentleman, more and more filled with kava,
arose and avaunted the ghosts. He sent
them among the horned cattle once, bidding
them, with great contempt, to live with the
bulumakau. Once he spat on two ghosts at
a time, and yet again he spat so wonderfully
that the applause sounded as if he had
knocked seven bells out of the spooks that
time.
Kava and presentation and speech and the
kava song—for which the drinker must
drink slowly—and more long draught and
the beating of the lali for rhythm, old men
still arriving to see the soldier’s wounds, ana
a hen bright-eyed in the lamplight, bringing
forth her clutch of chickens in the chief’s
house to escape the mongoose which has
eaten all the ground game. It is a terrible
insult to call a Fijian a mongoose. Another
speech that none were to be rude to the
white men (unnecessary with this fine
people, the richest in the world because they
have enough, and so well fed they are too
happy to be impolite) and that all we did
was to be respected.
They brought the girls to dance —a dance
of posturing while sitting, a melancholy
song for accompaniment; melancholy as the
lives of women in poverty. They were young,
pretty, copper-colored and well oiled with
cocoanut, as the chiefs were with kava ; bare-
backed, their bosoms covered, flowers at the
wrists and in their hair. That bare-backed
ballet in “So-Long, Letty.” came from here.
Their music was beautifully harmonised, and
seemed to be all about death and sorrow.
And after midnight they brought in the
young bucks for a meke of war; their fine
strong faces full of insult and menace;
masters of pantomime moving as one. They
(Continued on next page.)


<WS
m
PTS
(KB
u
V
t
Zam-Buk \
Comforts and
Heals -Soothes Swelling & Aching-and
Strengthens and Stimulates the Feet.
AM-BUK has proved a splendid remedy for foot troubles Wh™
the feet ache or smart, and feel hot, tired and swollen l
them in warm water, and then rub the soles, ankles and insten«
freely with Zam-Buk. As Zam-Buk’s potent,’ healing^uices^fnk
through the skin they soothe the tissues, strengthen the tendon® .1
bring real “foot comfort.” Chafed and blistered "parts are strengthened
or healed, and hard growths are softened. Zam-Buk comforts and
heals hot, swollen, sweating feet, galled spots, and takes away the nain
of corns and bunions ■« n<»ti,*— .<■»-- » J 1 ™
There is nothing so good for the feet as zVm
Buk, the ideal soother and perfect healer. Aam '
Sore Heels and Tender Feet,
“Being an insurance traveller, - ’ says Mr. W.
Sims, of 139 Tynte Street, North Adelaide,
“I am a lot on my feet, and very often
suffer from sore heels and tender feet. Upon
the application of your Zam-Buk Healing
Balm the soothing effect is wonderful, and in
a short time my heels are quite sound again.
I always have Zam-Buk in tlie house for the
use of my wife and children, in case of
burns, scalds, etc., and have great pleasure
in recommending it to fellow-sufferers.”
Burning Feet and Sore Insteps.
Mrs. Gunson, of 157 Hoddle Street West
Richmond, Melbourne, writes: —“I am’a can-
vasser, and am, therefore, constantly on niv
feet. _ My insteps became very tender and
broke out in sores. 1 applied different lotions
procured from the chemist, but they utterly
failed to give me relief. Seeing- Zam-Buk
advertised, I procured a pot. Before I had
used half of it, the sores were all healed,
and the burning, irritating feeling had left
my feet.”
EVERYBODY’S EVER-READY SOOTHER AND HEALER.
Keep a pot of Zam-Buk handy for sunburn, rashes, insect bites, prickly heat
heat swellings, cuts, burns, bruises, cliafings; sore legs, backs, ankles or feet-
pimples, eruptions, etc. Of all chemists, or post free from €. 13. Fulford <Aus )’
Ktd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, for Is. 6d., or 3s. 6d. large pot (3s. 6d. size'hold's
nearly four times the Is. 6d.).
AW
RUB
IN I
4
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “ 7 o’clock ”
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, Ist D.C.L.1., writes:
“ Up to the time of first using a “7 o’clock”
Safety Razor out here shaving was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight.”
“7 O’CLOCK” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade.sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia.
Price in Australia
Price in New Zealand .
126
13/6
m
should be the most easily-drilled soldiers on
earth, and they made an experience unfor-
gettable—their beautiful bodies glistening in
the lamplight, their war chant and the
hissing of the leaves carried in bunches at
their wrists.
.The ghost-destroyer now arose, half-numb
with kava, went to the guest door, shrieked
insult at the ghosts and tried to drive them
out of the island with one comprehensive
spit. Alas, his mouth was dry, he could
not spit, and came back to his seat not to
applause but to derisive laughter. Rut his
stupid ghost was keeping us away from a
perfectly good seepage, and I am glad the
kava dried him up. So “Samothe” and
“Good-nights,” and the chief took me to a
bed of mats with a fan on the pillow—the
pillow embroidered with “Good-morning,
my dear.”
And now we had to break superstition
with a miner’s right.
Red-eyed and smooth of mouth from the
kava, Bulumakau, whose spittle failed before
the ghosts, made back to the kava bowl with
a sore head. Sairo’s face lengthened to 2ft.
Gin. as it seemed that the trip had been for
nothing. Superstition had made the morn-
ing full of difficulty; they believed that the
“karaseni” in the bathing-hole was old
Nick, whom they had set on fire.
Rut the kava stone was going again, and
by-and-bye kava was handed by the maker
on his knees; though, for all the respect, we
were still up against the same granite super-
stition.
There were still curious old men who
called to probe the returned soldier’s wounds
with their fingers, breaking into monosylla-
bles of wonderment followed by long in-
drawn breaths.
Our man Beni began talking softly to the
chief of “karaseni”; old grey-haired men sat
around talking in whispers after we had
eaten ; while that confident, cheerful ruffian
Sairo sat eating everything in sight with a
greed learned of the white man, all his early
etiquette forgotten. After he had eaten all
and in pursuance of an arrangement that he
should go prospecting among some of the
older men, he left us with the whispering
old men and the kava bowl.
After much struggling with the supersti-
tion of Old Nick they led us down the
beach—as the event proved, in the wrong
direction —to a seepage of iron; and we
made westerly along the beach under the
cliffs of mudstone towards the village again.
They showed us a small hole which seemed
to hold nothing but, stagnant water, and a
most fearsome smell, plainly the result of
vegetable decomposition ; then at last to give
them time we said “Good-bye” and
“Samothe,” and waded out over the coral
shoal to the boat, and so to sea, leaving them
more than half-ashamed of their supersti-
tion and liking us well.
After that away to Namenua—to get news
of home by going away from it. At Namenua,
in a house in a clearing on the seaward side
of the town, we found a mentor —a white
man, Rill, whom the natives call “Missa
Viliame,” otherwise the comi of Never Mind.
A comi is a lord of the manor, as differenti-
ated from an hereditary chief of a village,
and the comi of Namenua is a grey-haired,
grey-bearded, spectacled, studious old man,'
very light in color for a Fijian and grave
enough to be a professor of biology.
From Verata to Namenua the dip of the
mudstones is more north-easterly, or sea-
ward, the strata being tilted inland.. Here
on a mud-bottomed pool was an unmistak-
able scum of petroleum, and on this evidence
the comi of Never Mind took me along to
the comi of Namenua. Fie is a man of much
intelligence, and after a smoke and a shell
of kava he told us that the seepage of petro-
leum by Verata had showed in the bathing-
hole of Sara Tarnbua. So after a decent
wait we engaged three men of Namenua as
miners and went to sea again.
I awoke early to the sound of the conch
blown by the mayor of the village to tell
people to wake up. It is the best job a
mayor can have,
Down at the hole sunk last night there
was a plain seepage of petroleum scum com-
ing from seaward, and making quickly from
the dense mudstone at the toe of the cliff.
To be more than certain that no tricks had
been played overnight, I had the hole baled
out, a sump sunk and rebaled and then
watched for three hours till the hole filled
again and the petroleum scum showed
thickly enough for a sample. They led us
to other seepages then. The ghost being
broken, I might now see all ; but most of
these others were plainly oxide scums seep-
ing out of the cliffs and surfacing the reef
pools.
A long yarn ensued which inquiry told
me was a discussion over the compensation
to be paid for a diseased cocoanut-palm
should we cut it down, and then a long
burlesque business conversation, with the
kava stone going again. Also the comi of
Never Mind had a burlesque row with me
as to whether 1 was to pay him a million
or merely five hundred thousand’ and this
aroused a native who was anxious that I
should not be displeased, and in honest and
disinterested collusion with me plied the
comi with kava, and every time the emptied
cocoanut shell was thrown down begged him
to sign the paper for the half-million.
The fine choir of school children began to
sing under a bread-fruit by the school as
we pursued superstition for its hidden spoil,
they singing with a single mind while men
become, colder and skins like rhinoceros hide
grow one over the other and around the
heart.
And there was Jonni. the big. handsome
half-Tongan servant of the comi, about 25
years old, and not yet beginning to be
spoiled. With one good oar and one broken
one he went to Levuka in a flat-bottom and
back, a distance of 56 miles of open sea,
for 65.. and the last night I was at Namenua
be walked 10 miFs to a store to bring me
some white man’s tobacco.
The children, the least spoiled of all, sang
under the bread-fruit—
Me da songoni le a muri!
Ma na tai ne awai,
which is “Shall We Gather at the River?”
—the tune being my interpreter of the words,
and then—
Ni langa sere mai na angelosa
Ka ni sai liemuni na kena dau
No_ sere me yacova tuna siga
Qai tuba vala noda maniarau.
which is to say—
Darker than night life's shadows close around us
And like benighted men we miss our mark ;
God hides Himself and grace has scarcely found us
Till death finds out his victims in the dark.
All the children followed us to the sea edge
over the flood of mudstones bared by the
tide. With the samples in the bottles and
the ghost of 30 years laid or departed to
Navilua or the Bulumakau we raised anchor
and ran between the reefs to Namenua —
being later bound for Ban, the Wainibokasi
and the Rewa, Suva, Sydney and other
foreign parts.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Dago.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS hungry —actually empty. Unfor-
tunately I had no money. On the
morrow —well, to-morrow I was to dine
with somebody’s rich uncle. But to-night—-
I pressed my hands over an aching void
and strove to stifle self-pitying sobs.
Just then I caught sight of a lovely red
lobster —such a beauty! It reposed on a
bed of oysters, and a little Dago, with well-
oiled curls and goo-goo eyes, was arranging
its limbs.
I knew that little Dago. Once I bought
some prawns and he gave me extra measure
because I smiled at him. I wondered if his
heart might not perhaps be very susceptible
and a little judicious flirting provide me
with something to eat. Surely Carmen
I fore’s smiles were worth a lobster!
Nothing like trying, so I went up to the
window and gazed longingly at the fish and
then at the Dago. Naturally, being a man
—and a Dago—he thought 'lie was the centre
of attraction. lie couldn’t see it was my
stomach and not my heart that was empty.
He ceased playing with the lobster and
fidgeted with the oysters, looking at me
under his black lashes and rolling his goo-goo
eyes.
After a few minutes of this I slowly
sauntered into the shop.
“(food evening,” I said, placing my elbows
on the counter and gracefully resting my
chin on my clasped hands.
“G'ood ev’ning, Mees,” said the little Dago,
giving me a bewitching smile with his moist
red lips. “What can I do for you?”
“You can make me happy,” I said, soul-
fully.
The palpitation of his heart became more
evident, and he smiled lusciously.
“Ah, you maka fun of me,” he said, in a
deep, fruity voice that reminded me of the
love scene in an Italian opera.
“You are cruel to think so,” I said, sighing
deeply. “Show me your nicest lobster,
please.”
lie brought one and placed it on the
counter.
“Dis is da beaut,” he said, stroking its
back tenderly.
“What is its name?” I asked, tickling it
under the ear, or where its ear should have
been.
“Just da cray,” he said, showing a double
row of white teeth. Then, leaning over the
counter he added in a soft whisper:
“Don’t often I see you go past, eh? You
live near, perhaps?”
“Perhaps.” I said, straightening one of
the long feelers that hung despondently from
the lobster's brow.
“I know you well,” breathed the little
Dago. "I tiuk you da.bonzer Mees.”
“You funny little Dago,” I said, laughing.
Then, remembering I "was hungry: “You
don’t mind me calling you that?”
“You call me what you please—l love it!”
“Ah.” I said, shaking my head at him,
“you are like all your countrymen—brave,
but fickle.”
“Brave?” he said. “Yes, we are brave—
some of us—but fickle? No! You are
wrong ! I have a bruzzer he love one woman
all hees life! He is twenty-five and she is
forty. Both are devoted”
“Then she must be very wealthy,” I said,
sceptically.
. “But no —it is my bruzzer has da money.
She gave it to him !” he said triumphantly.
“Ah, we can love —we can die of love.”
“And I,” I said, lifting the lobster’s claw,
“I could die of hunger.” I touched it with
my lips, thinking the flavor might stay my
ravening appetite.
Like a flash the little Dago seized the
claw and pressed it to his lips, kissing it
fervently. Then he broke it off and placed
it in a pocket of his vest, over his heart.
I was touched—and I began to fear he
was also.
“Ah,” he said in his vibrating baritone,
“you are da beaut Mees.” He flung out his
arms and caught the lobster in a tight
embrace. A loud crack rewarded his fervor.
“There,” I said, “you have split his shell.”
“Never mind,” he said, wiping some mois-
ture from his shirt sleeve. “I will get you
anuzzer—a better one. I will give it' to
you”
He paused to roll his goo-goo eyes. I hung
on his words with breathless interest. ' A
mournful gurgle trilled from my expectant
gastronomic apparatus.
“Go on!” I said. “You will give it to
me?”
“Yes, I will give it to you if you promees
to go to Manly with me soon—my first night
off.”
“Will you really?” I said with genuine
eagerness.
“Really,” he said solemnly. “We Italiano
never break our word.”
“Ah,” I said, “you are like your noble
Horatio. You are a peach!”
“An’ you,” he said, delighted, “you are da
bonzer Madonna !”
He went to the window and got the large
cray that had evidently only been intended
for show purposes. Then I knew I had
really touched his heart.
“You will tink about da trip if I give you
thoes?” he said as be carefully wrapped it up.
“Think about it!” I cried enthusiastically.
“Why, if you throw in half a dozen oysters
I’ll dream of it, you incomparable Dago !”
It was too easy, but I pay for it in having
to walk a long way round so as not to pass
the little Dago’s shop. In a month, perhaps
I shall be safe. He will be dead then—or
have forgotten.
PEETA.


estinghouse (Cross) Oil Engines
CROSS '
0»L ENCiNE
CD
*w»m>nrnTrr7rrr?n»j,;r/nTf777?/7i>w»wn*T'
10-h.p. Oil Engine driving Air Compressor at 650 r.p.m
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Office—SO Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
Is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
The Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West. N.S.W.
[2
EF
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINHEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
Dinneford’s)
Magnesia j
: • -
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
Soldiers in
Europe like it
They have written home
repeatedly for this great
Chewing Sweet
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidify of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
WRIGLEY5
SPEARMINT :
Send some to your soldier boy .
It quenches thirst, steadies
the nerves, soothes, refreshes,
benefits.
A delicious aid to teeth,
throat, appetite and digestion.
3d. per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and Stores ; o:
address J. C. Gambles & Co.
Commerce House,
Melbourne.
.ommi
*3
r
ASJ*
Made in
Australia
for Australians
by Australians.
Be
Sure it’s
Wrigley’s
Chew It after every meal
mt
COMPANION
COMPLETE THE KIT.
Economy
For all-round tube-screwing use
the tinie-savlng
mm
OSTER
SCREWING
MACHINES
304-A
lin. tc
4in.
Screws.
Tubes,
Bolts,
and save money over hand-screwing.
Furnished in four sizes for belt or
motor drive. Dies and extra parts
carried in stock here. Ask for catalog.
THE OSTER MFG. CO.; Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHAS. >l. WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vio. [2
z
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
AT any height, at any temperature, in any
climate, under any atmospheric conditions,
at any speed, up any grade, under any load,
fa
The Famous
Schebler Carburetter
“The Heart of the Auto-
mobile” sends a never-
failing power stream
pulsing through your
motor.
Illustrative and descriptive
leaflets and all information free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd*,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, sole Agents for Australasia. [J


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROYITE
LEATHER
whioh is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
sdf
A“BUFFALO”
For every Service
on the STATION, FARM
and elsewhere
Ball-bearing' Drills
standard h the U tol?d ove?^ 8 !! made “ Buffal °” Machines
priced Drills-just the tool for the w?rk“Sp d ‘ n theSe ‘ oW -
yoar aß- 111 bM * S *‘ ted £or
p P , ar^ u e & Lacy Co - Ltd.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
for Dock-
DICK’S BA LATA BELTING.
The “DICKBELT
Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Haa maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip
Sssars;." 0 *"^ In pow “ ■*
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD IE & CO.
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide/*
PAUL & PRAY LTD., Newcastle.-
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
* ~
STEAM
TRAPS.
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
HAS ‘REGRINDING VALVE,"
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT"
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS etc
rfacfwrers of 9 @
— . w -wf ap ■■ h BMI B 8 hMF lan BHk j” fgn
y «L*»
iAn ni.<i A t b . •
y_ . nw . ' —— Of uasr or wroupit /ron
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
JI
i
f.
■
-
i
Nichols Boiler Feed Fumps
For Economy in Steam Consumption
and Freedom from repairs, these
Pumps are unequalled.
References can be given to hundreds of
satisfied users in the Commonwealth.
Delivery of many sizes from Sydney Stock.
Sole Agents—
The Austral Engineering Supply
Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Warburton, Franki, Limited
Electrical and Mechanical Engineers,
309 Kent St., Sydney; 380 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Stocks
Dynamos
Motors
Wires & Cables
Accumulators
Blackman Fans
Semi-Diesel Engines
Electrical Goods of All Description.
THB
LATEST
:
«Ii 1 »V»»i»i CILILILILII //JJ\mii j»i "if
nnm
c
0
ag£gP-SHEAPiNr. MACHINE
11
ALL
RITISH
MALE-
OP NATIONAL IMPORTANCE
Sole Agents
for AiisstrAlia
DANGAR. GEDYF. £
SYDNEY.
FOR AIR COMPRESSORS,
ROCK DRILLS,
and all Mining and Concentrating Machinery
Apply to N. CUTHRfDCE LTD., who have been in the business tor 30 years.
Enquiries answered promptly.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
Equitable Building,
350 George Street, Sydney
m .
M
'
•• . t
'■ji
'
