

DEWA.B’S THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. Q. WATKINS «S£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisi< as.
specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always availab .
HUP YOUk HOMIMNI)
BUY WAR I.OAN BONDS
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest Interest./
NSV-MQNT DE PIETE-D&IC?I7?
HEAD OFFICER CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building,
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBAIVT.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
FIFTY PAGE BOOK-POST FREE
asrc
s in
I'M
SLEEP IN OR
OUTDOORS
IN COMFORT
TRY OUR
PATENT BED
FOR HOTELS
FLATS, AND
BUNOALOWS
REVOLVES IN
22 INCHES.
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO..
380 GEORGE ST. (near g.p.0.), SYDNEY.
Wear*
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
ll«,l
11.4
>" "" Great Recordt”
HUTTON’S
- PINEAPPLE” BRAND
45 YEARS THE BEST
Hams & Bacon
SCHUTE. BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JUNKET made' from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
gEKHWI
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
The 8 tan Clara Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596.
CURES
Write for Booft
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
■
SPECIAL
WOODWORKING
MACHINERY AND
ALL ACCESSORIES
MACHINE TOOLS
OF EVERY
DESCRIPTION
R. L. SCRUTTON
161 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUES.
m
The White Heart on the
Black Bottle.
THE GENEVA of Purity
and High Quality.
66
POILITE”
Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Tiles
(GENUINE BRITISH MADE).
Build with'Poilite. “Poilite Sheets are ideal
for Walls (inside and out), Ceilings, Partitions, etc.
They are attractive in appearance, but time alone
will reveal their greatest virtue—firm, dogged
ENDURANCE.
Write for Catalog “A.”
‘ MONEY IS A GOOD SOLDIER; INVEST IN THE LIBERTY LOAN.”
S BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd. 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(Melbourne) Proprietary Ltd., BourKe St., Melbourne.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Y01.38.—N0. 1967.]
[Thursday, October 25, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.WAustralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


dryoi
mm*-
being unsweetened and containing a large proportion of Juniper, is specially
recommended by Doctors to those suffering from kidney complaints and for
rheumatism. The best GIN to take with Vermouth.
SEE THAT YOU GET “GILBEY’S.” Obtainable in quarts and pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY. Solo Agents for N.S.W. [2
“An Irish Heart,’
Verses by David McKee Wright.
riMilS book of Mr. Wright’s best work will
A not be offered for public sale; but a
limited edition will be printed for subscribers
only.
Subscription, 3/6, to The Publisher ‘An
Irish Heart,” The Bulletin, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
Poems by Zara Cross
LOVE SONNETS.
xv.
And now that you lan e given me all this,
Wjiat, my Beloved, can I give to you?
r Ml' heart? My mind? My body dipped in
'[dkwr -
■Of not enough.... Take kiss
on kissU
could hCy Ups could fill you with such
'J~' y bliss,/A / &
Tour s>\ui w/uld flutter through its lids of
,/ ' blue,
'And. meeting mine, its holy odors strew
Above the chasm where our passions hiss.
O, press your eyelids closer, Love, on mine.
Bend back my slender body.... Lean o'er
me,
While yet a swimming vapor shades our
eyes,
And Darkness drinks with us a draught
dir in e.
I am pour own... .0 sting of ecstasy!
Our married breasts sleep, smothered in
their sighs.
xvir.
Beloved, lest I should remember, I
Must srvift forget the wonder of last night.
Hot memory would but blacken out my sight
And dull my senses till they seemed to die.
How could I live, remembering that sigh....
That breath. . . .that sob. . . .that all sublime
deligh t ?
Eternal joy is death, I think, and might
Tot such sweet madness kill me, coming
nigli ?
I died with you that hour. Or, if not , merged
Myself in you, commingling all my lift
Within your own, until I fled and fled
Into your blood; and my pure pulses surged,
Heaped with the wedded bliss of man apd
wife.. ..
Dying, I lived....and living, I was dead.
XLIX.
In me there is a vast and lonely place
Where none, not even you, hare walked in
sight.
A wide, still vale of solitude and light,
Where Silence echoes into ebbing space.
And there 1 creep at times and hide my
face,
While in myself I fathom wrong and right,
And all the timeless ages of the night
That sacred silence of my soul I pace.
And when from there I come to you, love-
swift,
My mouth hot-edged with kisses fresh as
i wine,
Often I find your longings all asleep,
And unresponsive from my grasp you drift.
Ah, Love, you, too, seek solitude like mine,
And soul from soul, the secret seems to keep.
THE PERFECT RIME.
Oh, to have lived in Sicily with you
And sweet Theocritus %ohen song was young,
And every happy flower the morning swung
Was ripe with melody of odorous dew!
There, ’neath the boughs, you might have
sung full true
With those rare voices grassy AEtna flung
Down to a sea that lapped with lyric tongue
A singing shore enamored of its blue,
O love, I dream! Our married glances meet,
Our mouths make idylls all the gloaming
through,
Here o'er our heads the breathing blossoms
twine,
And couplets cluster at our naked feet;
Nor ever poet since the first pipe bletc
Dreamed such a rime as your lips make on
mine.
PAIN.
....Mother of God!....the pangs!....
the pangs, again!....
Put out my life... .Stop up my cries with
Death....
I would he quiet... .1 would be so 5ti11....
Repentant .... humble... .if.... Ah God!
the pangs! ....
There is a table in the surgery....
I saw it when I passed; and near, a nurse,
Cool-handed, meek of mouth.... She looked
at me
With tender pity. .. .1... .0 G0d!....1
fear. ...
If I should die; and this small life I wronged
Be left still wronged, to live a loveless life,
Unmothered, and unfathered, too. .. .0
God!
Put out two lives 1 must scream....
Christ, forgive — .
I can hear footsteps in the ward .... Lights
gleam ....
They're coming... .1 will lie upon the bed
Where Alice died to-day... .She left her
child —
A dimpled bay, with hazel eyes like hers ....
Nearer they come... .What's happening in
the w0r1d?....
Where’s he.... who said... .he loved me. ...
O my God!
Where is my mother and my.... Not a
friend ....
How cold it is My lips bleed agony
They're here... .They help me up and bear
me through
The desolate, long r00m....My own nails
in my palms. .. .
Despised.. . .deserted... .on my cross, I
crawl ....
“Scream now unf eared,” they say—.l
scream .... and scream ....
GIRL-GLADNESS.
It’s holiday time on the hollyhock hills,
And 1 wish yon would come with . me,
laddie-love, now.
The butterfly-bells, from the Folly-fool rills,
Will ring if you listen and drop on your
broio.
So, dear, come along,
I’ve a kiss and a song,
And I know where the fairies are forging a
ffong , . ~ .
To ring up the elves to a festival fair
Of sippets of sunshine and apples of air.
O laddie, my laddie, quick run out of school,
And away with a shout and a shake of the
head;
I’ll pick you a pearl from the pigeon-pink
Po° l , . -.77
Where cuddles and kisses are going to bed.
Away, come away
To the land of the fay,
For the afternoon tinkles your lassie-love's
lay.
Flay truant with 'Time and while Age is
asleep
I’ll give you the heart of my girlhood to
keep.
THE BIRTHDAY OF THE DEAD.
Where'er I turn to-night, I see a child
With "brown, unribboned hair;
Smiling soft-eyed at me, as once I smiled;
And fair, as / teas fair.
Her little hands are plaiting flowers and
ferns,
Her tiny feet are crossed.
Sometimes she sings, and through her carol
burns
The youth that I have lost.
I know her grave is green upon the hill —
She died in infancy —
And yet, how pensive and how very still,
She sits and smiles at me.
I'll say, this time newt year: “She’d have
been nine
Had earth not been her bed.”
Her little years increase and bloom with
mine—
Ah! how can she be deadf
From “Songs of Love and Life.”
J*
Those who have watched the verse-columns
of the Australian press last year and this
must have become vaguely aware of the
growing brilliance of a new star in the
Poetic Way. It was named Zora Cross. Who
is Zora Cross? Songs of Love and Life
(Tyrrell’s, Sydney, 2s. 6d.) will tell you.
Many of the ’ verses in this volume will be
recognised by Bulletin readers; but the
chief feature of this collection is a series of
60 “Love Sonnets” now published for the
first time. To write 60 technically correct
sonnets upon Love without repeating one-
self is an achievement; to write five dozen
sonnets of such a high average of literary
distinction, athrob with the pulse of pas-
sion, full of felicities of phrase and touched
with imagination and thought, is a triumph
of virtuosity. For this sonneLseries is
poetry of a high order, poetry that is
frankly but not pruriently hedonistic.
Zora Cross does not write a sonnet to her
husband-lover’s eyebrow; she writes 60 son-
nets to —well, to all of him. Here for the
first time in modern English literature a
woman-poet becomes articulate; none has
hitherto dared to unveil her soul so frankly
and so finely. All the others who have tried
haven’t any soul to reveal. Of course, there
is Sappho; and Sappho may henceforth be
labelled the Lesbian Zora Cross.
When asked by God whether she would
have Heaven or him, the woman answered.
“Give me him.” Her sonnet-series is one
long piean of love, profane yet not porno-
graphic. She chants the body, but with many
a beautiful simile.
O, as the moonbeams on the violets spill
Rivers of uncontrolled felicity,
We’ll tune our bodies to a melody
And set our pulses to a poet’s thrill....
We sleep....toe dream, dissolved in our
desire. . ..
Time broods upon the bosom of the bay
Holding his finger with an ancient
“ Hush!”
Doubt is imagination’s golden seal,
And memory the lattice of romance. . ..
Red life has laughed from out the dark
unknown,
And drawn creation from a crumb of clay.
With faces to the sun we leave the womb,
Stretching frail hands to make his fire our
own.
So v:hen Death darkens all the present way
Shall larger suns allure us from the
tomb ....
Dear Heart, if you should leave me thus
alone,
I. by the lack of love, should die, forsooth,
For all my life should fill the vacant sea
Of your dear death with my eternal moan;
So, through the glory of my passi)ig youth.
You should live on, while death remained
uAth me. ...
Tico travellers with an earthen cruse ws
stray , ,
Along the lagging sands, that burn ana
parch;
A shin - of wine, brown bread, and Love to
guide,
We icander till the co-eternal day,
Alone, unchartered with the stars we march;
Before us nought, behind the ebbing tide....
There is an echo in that sestette; but there
are few in this series. Several of her son-
nets have a Shakespearean ancestry, and
Masefield has perhaps contributed his mod-
ern outlook; but the series is throughout
highly individual, a personal achievement.
In her other verses two sides of the
author’s temperament alternate. There is
her delightful occasional verse, musically
and cleverly rimed, with graceful conceits of
romance and childhood and “Girl-gladness.”
Her more ambitious poems, are choked with
an overgrowth of sonorous imagery ; but her
grimly realistic picture of “Pain” (of which
only a portion is quoted above) is a triumph
that almost hurts with its brutal truth.
Here is a voice, sometimes too strident, a
force and a fire, married to a technical
ability, that can, without flattery, be com-
pared to Swinburne’s debut in English
literature.
Writers of Australia:
Sydney Loch (“Sydney de Loghe”)
My family comes from Scotland; but I
was born in London at tbe start of 1889 of
talented but tempestuous parents. Nurses,
walks in public gardens and pudding pro-
blems filled first years; but an appetite for
iterature soon came. My father took his
lobbies violently, and insisted on his family
following his example. One hobby was fly-
fishing. Summer by summer he seized a
bundle of fishing-rods and led an attack upon
the trout streams and salmon rivers of the
Scottish and English border country—he
conducting the campaign and his family
flogging the water behind him. Very early
I knew the country of Scott -and Burns,
and as a consequence read Scott from “end
to end, introductions, footnotes and all. I
turned next to Burns, following with Ilogg,
the Ettrick Shepherd and any other Scots
writers to be found. My head filled to over-
flowing with tales of knights and ladies,
freebooters, kelpies, warlocks and brownies.
I turned then to the literature of other coun-
tries, getting hold of queer books in my
searches; but I never thought of writing
until asked one day, when 14 years old, to
put verses in an autograph-book. During a
foggy London afternoon I was delivered of
a poem, and from that time have been con-
stantly brought to bed.
I wrote a score of poems in the first shock
of discovery, bound them in a cream and
gold cover, compelled relations to purchase,
and so repaired boyish finances. I read
harder than ever. During a winter in the
south of France, coming across a book of
old French forms of verse, and about the
same time reading a translation of Petrarch,
I tried my hand at sonnets, villanelles and
triolets. My workshop was a fair exchange
for the poet’s garret, for I leant night by
night from a hotel window, looking into the
dark, which was warm and full of the scents
of orange and lemon blossoms. No doubt
many of my ideas were stolen from my read-
ing; but I was becoming more critical and
tore up much of what I did. This work had
to be: all trades demand their apprentices.
My family did not care for poets, and when
presently I turned to prose it seemed they
cared for novelists less; but I went on writ-
ing. There had been times when I had sat
an afternoon turning a sentence; but now I
was beginning to write more easily and was
learning the tricks of the trade. At 20 I
came to Australia for station experience,
and in the new life continued to write in
spare time.
When I joined the army at the start of
war, the old habit kept me at The Straits
Impregnable when luck was up or down, and
in good health and out of it. I wrote the
book as a diary, and beyond a little polishing
ic stands as it did at the start. I entered
it at first in a book; but the keeping of
diaries was forbidden on the field, and I
left the book at the base. At Anzac I began
again on scraps of paper, in fact, on anything
that served. The Colonel, passing my dug-
out one day, called out, “Is that the story
of your life you are writing?” Many of
these bits of paper were mislaid in hos-
pital, and as a result the book was handi-
capped, for my memory was weakened at the
time through illness.
I showed the diary to a friend, who sug-
gested publication. 1 was told of Mr. H. H.
Champion, manager of the Australasian
Authors’ Agency, Melbourne, as a man able
to help me; and, taking the MS. under my
arm, went looking for him. I found him
and left him the MS. He telephoned me
next day and spoke of it in highest terms.
Later on at his office he was equally compli-
mentary; but he said, though he believed it
would have good sales, I had missed the real
market by six months, for people were now
interested in France rather than Gallipoli.
Publishing firms were chary of belated war-
books, and Mr. Champion had to take the
risk himself. In a month he had ready an
edition of 2000 copies. Critics were kind,
the book sold at once, and next month a
t*cunc] impression of 3000 copies was ma de
J hrough Mr. Champion’s agency j 0 h '
Murray was now publishing the ‘book in
England; and by the time the 3000 Auk
tralian copies were sold the English edition
was arriving. My receipts from Australia
sales were £130; but no information is to
hand concerning British royalties.
My new book, Pelican Pool, which Messrs
Angus and Kobertson of Sydney are brin°in2
out next month, was written last summer
in the Gulf country and has its scenes laid
there. I wrote it night by night in a tent
Billjim
Billjim is not an Anzac. According to
him there is no such thing as an Anzac. Bill-
jim never refers to himself as an Anzac: he
is simply an Australian or a New Zea
lander. Billjim and Harrimac don’t dislike
being clubbed together: quite the reverse—
the Australians are never more satisfied than
when they are next to the Maorilanders. “Beth
are proud of Anzac as the name of their
corps, as the name of that hillside in Gal-
lipoli where their graves lie side by side.”
But the term “the Anzacs” is disliked
because it was at one time associated in
the press with highly-colored stories of indi-
vidual feats; hence “its use from that time
forth was, by a sort of tacit consent, irre-
covably damned within the force.... The
noun ‘an Anzac’ now bears with it, in the
force, the suggestion of a mm who rather
approves of that sort of swank: and there
are few of them.”-
This is the most important statement
made by C. E. W. Bean, official Common-
wealth War-correspondent, in his slight hut
readable Letters from France (Cassell, Bs.
Gd.). Bean does not rank with the great
correspondents of this war: he is a con-
scientious roundsman covering certain im-
portant routine matters in France and else-
whex-e. These letters are merely pleasant
descriptive notes, with occasionally a bitter
accent when he comments on indifference to,
or criticism of, the work of the armies by
the stay-at-homes. What he aims at always
is to bring home to those wh,, are at home
the exact conditions under which our men
are fighting: he is as painstaking and as
patient as a pedagogue teaching a class of
rather inattentive kids; but Boyd Cable
does this with an infinitely greater vividness
and with a greater economy of words: he
does not teach us, he shows us. Yet Bean
oftens lightens his lesson with a homely yet
illuminating Australian simile. “Pozieres
could be picked out for miles by pillars of
red and black dust towering above it like
a Broken Hill dust-storm.” Being a fervent
Australian talking to Australians, it is not
his job to glorify Billjim: he leaves that for
correspondents who are not Australian, but
he is convinced of their worth. "They are
not heroes; they' do not want to be thoughl
or spoken of as heroes. They are jusl
ordinary Australians doing their particular
work.... And pray God Australians in days
to come will be worthy of them !”
Next to the Maorilander the Australian
likes the Scotsman. Bean asked Billjim
why; and Billjim replied: “Well, I think
it’s their sense of humor. You see, they
can understand our jokes. They don’t seem
to take us too serious like.” Bean explains
“The Australian has a habit of pulling his
mate’s leg, and being on his guard against a
leg-pull, in return. ... His uncles are gener
ally to blame for it; they started him on the
path of repartee by pulling his leg before
those same legs had learnt to walk. As a
result he is always sparring in conversation-
does not need to be taken seriously. Am
the Scotsman, cautious anti always on the
lookout for a feint, is seldom caught by it
If he is, the chances are he gives it back
—with interest. It is a grim, old, dry
variety of humor, and it goes with a wonder
ful, grim, sturdy nature... .The Scotsmai
is, I think, the most unrelenting fighter thai
I have come across. The Australian is the
most fierce fighter in battle, but is quit
ready to make friends afterwards with h* 6
enemy. Once he has taken a German pris
onei\ he is apt to treat him more liberally
than the English soldier —and that is say
ing a good deal. To the Scotsman, when hi
escorts his prisoners home, those prisoner!
are German still. He has never forgotten
the tremendous losses which Scottish regi
naents suffered at the beginning of the war
....With the Australian, once the fight i£
over, the bitterness is left behind. Th<
Scotsman makes prisoners, but he does not
make friends.”
Bean does not disguise the fact that Bill-
jim is having a hard time; and with some
bitterness he wonders whether Austram
recognises it. Bean gives us the names o’
the drafts in their order. The original!
were the “Tourists”; then followed the
“Dinkums,” the “Super-diukums.” the ar-
Babies,” the “Chocolate Soldiers,” the “Ilara
Thinkers,” and the “Neutrals.”


w a
ANTHONY HORDERNS' for THE SUMMER FASHIONS
%
0
ik
97)
rtr
76 3
9
*
, ■»
*0
4
a©
<D
-'♦W'V
< <
K
?r
/
c
#»
fil*
fidt
©
<2F
&
£><
768
762.
766
767
r HELP YOUR
1 HOMELAND
B UY
WAR LOAN
, BONDS
A’SHION and Economy go hand in hand at
the New Palace Emporium. Some examples
are illustrated on this page- five Smart
Frocks suitable for wear on occasions when obser=
vance of the latest styles is essential. Many others
are illustrated in our Book of the Summer Fashions,
which places the immense resources of our Show
Rooms at the command of everyone. May we send
one to you ?—a copy will be posted free on request.
Be wise, pop your orders in the post and reap the full
benefit of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
No. 702.—An Exquisite Model in
N;ivy Chiffon Taffeta, collar and
cuffs of Gold Lace. New Barrel
Skirt with Lattice Strappings, fin-
ished at waist with smartly-shaped
braided belt and buttons—
£7/12/0
No. 703.—An Effective Coat
Frock of Chiffon Taffeta, in the
new Wheat shade. Boat-shaped
neck, bodice and pockets hand-
somely soutached in brown —
£6/6/-
No. 767.—An Ideal Coat Frock
of Chiffon Taffeta in Mastic, a new
shade of Fawn, square collar of self
with over-collar of White Taffeta.
The decorative stitching gives an
effective finish ; also in Navy, Mole,
Saxe, and Black £5/15/0
No. 706.—1 n this Exquisite Knife-
pleated Model Ninon and Taffeta
are combined with excellent effect.
Handsomely embroidered on yoke,
sleeves and skirt outlined with Gold
Thread £6/19/6
No. 768.—The Distinguishing; Fea-
ture of many of the New Frocks
is the combination of two colors and
two materials. This Chic Model is
of Cream Cashmere, with bodice and
long Tunic of Wool Crepe in the new
Brick Shade. The embroidery is
effectively carried out in Black —
£6/16/6
IZOD'S CORSETS set off ladies’ cos-
tumes excellently. They offer value
which cannot he duplicated—they were
purchased at pre-war prices, the full
benefit of which is passed on to patrons.
Send for Catalogue, gratis and post
free. It illustrates various models
suitable for individual figures. IZOD’S
CORSETS will Wash, and will not
Break, Rust, or Tear. ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ will replace any pair
that does not stand this test.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


For Australia —for your
Hearth and Home.
THINK what this homeland means to you, this Australia. Does it not hold
all that is most dear—hearth and home, family, friends—all that makes
life worth living? Does not the very word spell “freedom”? Where, indeed,
is there a land which for its people holds so much.
Australia is at War, and “Money is a Good Soldier.” Surely
you will help to defend your country —will make your money fight!
SUBSCRIBE TO THE
LibortyLoai!
“Breathes there the man, with
soul so dead,
Who never to himself hath said,
This is my own, my native land!”
HOW TO DO IT.
If you have a bank account, go to your bank. Or go to
any bank or post office. Get a prospectus and form of
application. If any point is not clear, have it explained to
you.
Your first payment need only be one-tenth of the whole, and
the balance may be paid in monthly instalments extending
over a period of five months.
If you subscribe £lOO your first payment need be only £10;
if you subscribe £lO it need be but £l.
Interest is paid at the rate of 414% (9/- yearly on every
£10), and this is free of both Federal and State Income
Taxes. There is no safer or sounder investment.
Think what your money will do. This is a war of
equipment. In any of its monster battles a few more
guns, a few more shells, another ’plane or two may
turn the scale. It is to buy these and to maintain
our brave troops that Australia needs your money.
HOW MUCH CAN YOU SUBSCRIBE?
P er cent. Interest
(Free of Income Tax).
CLOSING DATE: 2nd NOVEMBER.
A large loan is asked for. The greatest amount you can lend is needed—every pound counts—but if a War Bond is quite beyond
your means, you can save something every week and often pay
17(6 for a £1 War Savings Certificate
Which you can buy at any Bank or Money-Order Post Office.
-No. 24.
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commpnwealth.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause—and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. This acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out of the
system.
URIC ACID CRYSTALS
MAGNIFIED
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do .this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a muddy bluish color —a feature which dis-
tinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief —everv
time. A permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. l)d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms, no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
Dewitts
Kidney Pills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC TILLS.
The famous Remedy tliat actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT. LUMISAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/G per box.
A- CV. 220 Strand. T.ondon.
li»
S
iiiil
yj- V
2 T
vsmk
- J 7
cv- lJ
m
rf-» \fs
fr*
-
, Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
ncbtamable locally it will be posted direct
a plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
t i 'JBRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
'• 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
r. any illustration appearing in The
lei in takes your fancy, write to the
anager, who will quote you price for it.
When Your Child’s Throat is Sore!
That s a danger sign ! It tells you of deadly germs attacking the
tender respiratory organs. Once let them gel
down into the bronchial tubes or lungs, then
the dread cft)up or perhaps pneumonia may
endanger life. At the first indication
give Bonnington’s Irish Moss! The
thing is to get this magnificent remedy
right to the spot at once I
ms
Prized by Mothers for their Children for Whoop-
ing Cough, Croup, or any throat weakness. Be
jure it s Bonnington s. Iwo Sizes, t/6 and 2/6
f
r
JOH*IkCIOH»
RISK MOSS
CHRISTIE^
SPECrAL/5£
TWO
L/A/SS
s
kirt 5
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIE’S
The STRAND
520 GEORGE5 T SYDNEY
lc MO/SSTER NEWCASTLE
: ■ X'iii' '
)fh
AR.E YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The Dad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a OF.NTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we thin!- of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL u
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It i 3 suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
PRICE
DARBY AUTO
SUPPLIES
Co Pty U-d
wsm
iM
P
CIS
tel
Ml
i
2'9
Elizabeth
STREET
MELBOURNE-
Posf Paid
firestone
vres
%
RIDING like the wind on risky turns, still
. you are safe with Firestone Non-Skid
Red and Black Tyres. The tread holds and
the whole tyre wears long and well be-
cause Firestone building is right. Let us
equip your car today for safety, comfort and saving.
Grimiey, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Obtainable at all Garages. Write for Illustrated Litera
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Choice.
Cun boom and wattle bloom ;
the world goes guessing wide,
While the scented Spring with a song to sing
Has eyes like a dreamer’s bride.
War shame and wattle flame;
And a girl will, kiss and cling—
"•t the Kaiser’s word outflashed the sword.
But ’twas Cod that made the Spring.
Gun boom and wattle bloom,
And a sigh for you, my dear ;
But there’s work to do while the skies are
blue
In the scented turn of the year.
War shame and wattle flame ;
But the world has a cross to bear,
And it’s over the tide while a new-made
bride
Has the lilt of the sun in her hair.
Cun boom and wattle bloom ;
And the choice is still to make.
But the scented Spring has a song to sing
Of death for a true love’s sake.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Midnight and Moonlight.
As one singled out from his fellows,
Enchanted I roam
Through night with its music and moonlight,
And sea-sheen and foam.
’Twas Beauty herself that awoke me
And whispered “Arise,
I have lit all the lamps of my palace
To gladden your eyes!”
I rose at her bidding, and, surely,
’Tis just as she said,
The moon, spilling splendor around me,
Brimfull overhead.
Rich perfumes from garden and garden
Red roses outpour;
The sea, broad and bright to the skyline,
Sings low to the shore.
The beach, a brave riband of silver,
All radiant shines,
’Twixt the white of the surf on its sea-edge
And the dark of the pines.
And the white of the surf on its sea-edge
A wonder-light gives,
And the dark of the pines is the darkness
Where mystery lives.
Can it be that this scene goes unwitnessed
Except by my eyes—
These splendors that start from the ocean
And rain from the skies?
Unaware of the light and the wonder,
In slumber sunk deep,
Young and old in the darkness they see not,
Eyes lidded in sleep.
Though pearl-tinted breakers be falling,
Unvisioned they fall —
O Sleep! art thou jealous of Beauty
To hold them in thrall?
How I long for a magical bugle,
Sweet-throated and clear,
To sound through their slumbers and wake
them,
And summon them here!
Then old men and young men forth-coming
Would sigh their delight;
And maidens, white-throated, barefooted,
In garments of white.
And all would speak well of the bugle,
And praise its sweet sound
That made them the guest folk of Beauty,
In radiance gowned.
And they would stand still in her presence,
Souls steeped in amaze,
The thrill of her magic upon them—
Sea-sheen and moonrajs.
And they would stand feasting and drinking,
Till one in that throng,
With a rapture exceeding all raptures
Of passion and song,
Would beget of his musing a vision
As wondrous as she
Who was fashioned of dream-stuff and moon-
light
And foam of the sea.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Maid of All Work.
Wild songs she does be singing while she’s
sweeping.
Sad as the grey wave on the lone beach
creeping ;
Sad are her eyes like a bird’s blown far from
the land.
With never a bird of his kind that would
understand.
Like a high grey pane where a candle
springs suddenly gleaming,
Her pale face lights with the glow of an
olden dreaming ;
’Tis of heroes she sings, of the Red Branch
—-even before them.
Of what old tree is she a leaf on the
farthest stem?
Wizened and old she is, with her thin back
bent to the cleaning ;
She knows not her own, but weeps for the
sorrow she’s keening ;
Och, ’tis the far way and the weary way to
the Connaught waves,
Faded voice with a song from the fadeless
_ graves.
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.


7000 Miles
on Perdriaus
and only one puncture
during 5 months* con-
tinual travelling heavily
equipped.
This is the record put up by PERDRIAU
TYRES, as described by Mr. W. Pateman, of
P*erth, W.A., in the “Motorist and Wheel-
man,” July 20, 1917. Extract:
. .More than 7 000 miles were covered;
only one puncture was sustained during the
extensive tour. . . .Roads are unknown in the
North-West. No bridges are provided for
crossing rivers. . . .So far as tyres and tubes
are concerned, the run served to prove the
reliability of Perdriau -Tyres. . . .and the
spare tyres did not have to be used.”
Keep the Home
Tyres Turning.
\
f
v, X
J’ssa#
s
>•
<SmX
'. ''
ssasr«* V
BPsv‘*
m /
* •:.' »«
in
/
' • ..
&
5^
PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO. LTD. AM States,
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their " Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User, This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney .
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10-12 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney,
HAVE FOR SALE AT PRE-WAR PRICES—
Arc Lamp Carbons
Atlas & other Wrenches
Boiler Flue Cleaners
Concentration Springs (Wilfley)
Cylinder Oil
Engine Packing
Keystone Drilling Tools
King & Humble Safety Hooks
Maxa Belt Dressing
Mining Steel
Ore Samplers
Perrotts Pat Lubricators
Punched & Woven Wire Screen
Rock Crushers
Rock Drills, Attachments & Hose
Shovels, Spades & Forks
%
LV*£
7#/
tart
oYo
V.V)NC/y^
Q
*
Si
It Fills
a Big Want.
The taste tickles the P a ’, at ';
because the cbeese behind the
t>ec . and cor-
because the cheese
taste is pure, wholesome and cor
ta8 t -x.. Ja Therefore it w«
taste is -- ThereTorTTt' will
rectly matured, i JvaLstion. You
not hurt the weakest digestio
will feel you & new proC ess to
spread like !>“«*£ the firs! sitting. All
oy don t eat the .101
Grocers sell it- Ask for .t.
“PFX " CAMP PIE
Ideal for liffht lunches
or sandwiches.
POGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure
pood Products.
Carers of “Rex” Hams
and Bacon.
It is made from choic-
est meats, and comes
ready cooked with a
pure jelly.
Great with any Salad
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
ENTHUSIASM OF OWNERS.
l'ou must have noticed that the first thing said about
the car, in ordinary conversation, is almost always a
direct reference to its quality.
The average owner is not merely satisfied, but is
extravagantly enthusiastic.
The economy of the car, its quality, the remarkable
things it does when called upon, are comments you hear
whenever the car is discussed.
DALQETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1067.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1917.
Price 6d,
PASSING IT ON TO THE BEAR.
Germany’s attack on Russia is in the spirit of revenge for failures on the West Front. — Cable.
THE MADDENED HUN: “I can take it out of THIS cripple, anyhow:"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
ADDKESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., k)l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt .—lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloiing, Cairo, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; 81oz. to 10oz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/op., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1917.
THE RIGHT TO MAKE YOUR
NEIGHBOR KEEP HIS PREMISES
FREE OF TIGERS.
Woodrow Wilson’s plain statement that
henceforth and forever he does not know
the Kaiser or any of his relatives in the
matter of peace arrangements is probably the
chief cause of the sizzling revolt in Ger-
many. If Wilson stands firm—and he
looks that sort of man —the Teuton’s only
road to peace is through revolution. Until
Wilhelm is downed and the people are
masters of their own country, one enemy at
least will speak in terms of death and
flame. The French and British aims are
much the same; but it is the U.S.A. that
has put them in the setting which a war-
aweary people can best understand. Thus
Wilson’s words probably mark a big
forward movement on the part of the
nations. Hitherto in national affairs indi-
vidualism alone has been considered; now
collectivism enters into a new field and, at
least in certain aspects, humanity is being
considered as an indivisible whole. Such
an evolution was inevitable. There was a
time when every citizen was very jealous
about his own domestic walls and garden
plot, and regarded it as beyond the bounds
of decency that anyone should interfere
with his drains or his garbage-heap. All
that has been altered. Bill Smith knows
perfectly well that his own cleanliness and
care are of little use if Tom Bowling next
door is allowed to encoura o e the conditions
of disease. The possession of a freehold
50ft. by 100 ft. does not entitle the owner
to breed snakes or keep tigers inside his
paling fences. But up to the present this
is exactly what has been allowed in the case
of nations. The idea has been that the
internal condition of Sweden and the fact
that its citizens are free or the reverse is
in no possible way Norway’s business, and
that France could have no sort of right to
cut in even if Germany were foolish enough
to give the supreme control of her affairs
to a homicidal lunatic. Failing to recognise
the interdependence of nations, statesmen
have narrowed their outlook and stultified
their aims; and, as a result, national reforms
have seldom amounted to much unless those
of the surrounding nations kept step with
them. The people that eliminated militar-
ism might have become the prey of the
country which clung to it in its oldest and
most barbaric forms. A community which
gave itself up wholeheartedly to Christian
Socialist idealism could be easily conquered
by a single Central African tribe of shining
and unwholesome nigger.
* * * *
Never was the force and truth of the inter-
dependence of States brought home more
strongly than in the days which followed the
present outbreak of Prussian blood-madness.
A country like Australia, at an immense
distance from the bigger events of the war,
might have been expected to be immune
from the influence of the enemy’s habits of
thought. Experience has proved that it
could not be. Within six months of the
outbreak of the war this Commonwealth had
by sheer force of circumstances adopted
many of the very worst features of Ger-
manism. A military autocracy, was estab-
lished which grew and still continues to
grow; the people were thrown back by a
censorship into blank ignorance of the
events most vital to them; the strut of
little persons raised to minor positions of
arbitrary power shouted mockery at all our
democratic ideas. In a word, the country
entering into a fight with Germany immedi-
ately became Germanised. Because there
was still a tyrant on the throne at Berlin,
Australia was compelled, in spite of all her
freer ideals, to submit to the rule of a
gross or two of little local tyrants. England,
France and Italy were doubtless still more
affected by the enemy. Interferences with
personal liberty which had been unheard of
since the days of Edward I. and Louis XI.
came again into force; and hopes of reform
that were high on the popular platform only
four years ago are now set aside not
merely until the end of the war, but until
the war wreckage has been cleared up. So
far-reaching, indeed, has this Germanisa-
tion of the anti-German nations been as to
make the painful fact patent to all men
that it is possible for the Allies to thrash
Prussia to a dead finish, and at the end
find that Prussia has won, because Prussian
notions are triumphant. If France, Eng-
land, Australia and the other Allied peoples
are less free five years after their fight for
freedom than they were five years before,
it must be obvious that the Allied cause
has suffered defeat; and the defeat would
not be less because the Kaiser had been
hanged, Berlin sacked and the German
generals forced in turn to dance a hornpipe
on the cross of St. Paul’s Cathedral. That
Australia is less free now than before the
war is plain enough. A whole mob of
autocracies have been created ; and it looks
as if the Commonwealth would have a solid
job in the years to come in breaking down
these Kaiserlike things for which our
struggle with the Kaiser is directly
responsible.
* * * *
On the experience recently gained, if a
nation decides that it has no use for autoc-
racy within its own borders, it must see to it
that there is no autocrat in charge of the
destinies of another nation. Such is the
force and scope of Woodrow Wilson’s
blunt statement that he will no longer play
speaks with a Floiienzollern. England
made no such complete and honest remark.
Old aristocracies and other foolish relics of
a barbarous past were too thick about the
Thames to permit of the downright demo-
cratic stand. Even France, bleeding at
every pore in her struggle for world-rights,
was too closely linked with the methods and
manners of the past to make the .complete
break. It remained for tbe United States
of America to say the straight word and to
recognise, in a perfectly logical way, that
the sort of Government they had in Berlin
did matter and must always matter in New
York. In that recognition lies the world’s
big hope. Never again, it is possible to
believe, will the individual personal rule of
the hereditary monarch be tolerated ; never
again will the government of peoples by un-
democratic methods be regarded as a fair
tiling. If Wilson remains firm to the ex-
plosion of the last firework, the world’s
peoples will rule the world’s States whether
for good or for evil. Democracy cannot yet
be said to have had a fair test. In some
lands the voice of the people has been
supreme; but that supremacy has always
been reduced in effectiveness by the pressure
of other systems in tbe neighborhood which
were too dangerous to allow the ballot-box
its full value and rightful place. The tiger
next door looked safe enough at most times ;
but he might get hungry and spring. The
knowledge of his habits and ultimate inten-
tions kept the digger of the pansy-bed per-
petually on the watch. While the tiger re-
mained there he could not cultivate his
garden to the fullest advantage. The new
theory, however, of which Wilson’s stern
remarks are the reflex, is based on the belief
that democracy, given a fair chance, will do
a fair thing. This is probably right. Nothing
educates in the duties of citizenship like
being a citizen; nothing refines the heart-
feeling of men like personal responsibility.
No nation of free voters would ever by the
crosses it set on ballot-papers have decided
on a war like that which Wilhelm started.
The Prussianism in Australia and other
countries which the war has created must be
broken down ; the petty autocracies at home
must be smashed as well as the big one
abroad. If there is any power that can do
this it is democracy-democracy imposed by
force of the most advanced and intelligent
nations on all nations. The big hopes of
freedom are still alive. They may fail us if
humanity is worse than it seems, but they
are all that we have to cling to.
THE AUSTRALIAN CHILD AND THE
FAMILY NOSEBAG.
The Bulletin is disposed to suspect that
the birth-rate is a matter which for at least
a long time will have to be left to Private
Enterprise. The difficulty of getting away
from established practice, social
and Mrs. Grundy in relation’ to this some-
what personal business, combined with the
terrifying possibilities incidental to’ hasty
legislation, are solid obstacles., in . the . way
of reform. To a more enlightened genera-
tion the notion of depending upon an unregu-
lated supply and demand may. appear as
fatuous as the habit of permitting any o
thing belonging to the human family to
repeat itself. Pending the regenerative in-
fluence of time and the evolution of morals,
the old controversy about birth-rates ca “ he
depended to rage at frequent intervals, ihe
subject is capable of indefinite variation and
of discussion from fully a hundred and sixty-
five different points of view. Loud yells
may be raised that fewer children aie materi-
alising at one part of the earth’s surface
than at another, and on the basis
of this discovery calamitous forecasts may
be manufactured about racial decay. Furious
indignation may be expressed that after
the infants who are quickly transferred to
the undertaker come to be subtracted from
the survivors of the first year, the number
remaining is insufficient to make good the
wastage among the older people. There may
be a flat refusal to agree that a low birth-
rate and a low rate of mortality repre-
sent a more desirable state of affairs than
one in which the percentage of births, though
higher, is associated with a relatively greater
proportion of funerals. The argument in
this case is that restriction cannot be
condoned by more careful nurture —that a
low mortality should be an encouragement
to production. This is a foolish argument
in many ways; but, all the same, there is
a demented sort of logic about it that defies
the statistician and leaves the advocates of
quality as against quantity gasping for
breath. But. at the end, all the tortuous
wrangling and involved arithmetic arrives
at this: that on the physical side of the
thing it is certain, first, that children are a
necessary commodity to the nation, and,
secondly, that it is desirable for the person
of normal condition to produce them; and
that on the economic side the possession. of
children exposes the parents to severe pains
and penalties. Then, having reached this
stage, the conclusions may be pursued simul-
taneously in 45 new directions, involving
heated disputation about bow many and how
often, the available food supply, the quality
of the local milk, the influence of heredity,
the effect of environment, the possibility of
economic disabilities imposed on parentage
being blessings in disguise, and so on and so
forth.
The main trouble about the birth-rate
problem is its innumerable angles and the
fatal opportunities these present for spring-
ing from one point to another. Wherefore
when Dr. Arthur inveigled the N. S.
Wales Assembly the other day into a discus-
sion on the subject, he managed to get him-
self involved in a mass of irrelevancies and
provoke a controversy which wandered from
Beersheba unto Dan. His motion was this:
That the State should afford assistance to large
families in the form of an endowment for every
child after the second.
And in justification of the proposal the
little doctor advanced a series of statements
ranging from the allegation that the ravages
of war among the younger and more vital
males of the country would cause*a decrease
in the marriage rate and therefore in the
number of births, to the assertion that a
very large number of the children born into
the community “do not get sufficient food
for the proper development of their bodies.”
Quoting the number of youngsters in the
State under the age of 14 who are the
third or subsequent children, he suggested
an endowment of ss. per week for each. The
annual cost of this he placed at £3,500.000,
and vaguely recommended that this should
be raised by a 10 per cent, tax on unmarried
individuals and 5 per cent, on those who
had entered the holy bonds but had failed
to produce more than one offspring. Arthur
was particularly concerned about the insuffi-
ciency of a “living wage” of £2 15s. 6d. to
provide sustenance for a family. Other
speakers talked about the horrors incidental
to the life of a man with his income who has
to pay about a third of it away in rent;
about the peril to a White Australia unless
the cradle was inhabited more frequently;
about the injustice of economically penalising
a citizen for bringing population into the
country; about all the rest of the personal
and social tragedy common to the rearing
of ch’-dren on a small income. Then, after
the Ministry had expressed scandalised
alarm at Arthur’s easy-going method of
getting rid of several millions, the Assembly
adjourned for dinner. And so it all ended
as it has all ended many times before.
* * * *
Now, there are some aspects of this busi-
ness that are not to be disposed of by jocose
references to triplets, nor perpetually evaded
by the production of statistical calculations
for the purpose of showing that the fecundity
habitual in other countries is countered by
a lower infantile mortality in this. One of
the most disturbing of these features lies in
the evidence, easily enough available, that
here in Australia society is rapidly marching
into conditions very little different from those
prevailing in more populous places where
the greatest birthrate is among those sections
of the community least able to provide even
the mere physical necessities of child life.
Too many Australian children are born and
reared in city slums. By improvements in
sanitation, by securing a better milk supply,
and by the spread of knowledge among
mothers a relatively larger number of chil-
dren survive infancy. But when they do
this to be stunted physically and mentallv
afterwards, the gain to the country is not
quite what the statistician usually implies.
And when they survive to be the source of
impoverishment to their parents, the ques-
tion whether everything has happened for
the best is not always answered by the
parent living on a “basic” wage in the same
way as by one with a more elastic purse.
It is at this point that statistics from which
argument is usually drawn relating to the
“quality” of a population surviving the
perils of infancy are hopelessly untrust-
worthy and lead to conclusions a long way
more specious than sound. It is simple
enough to say that if people generally have
fewer children and “do” them better, the
consequences nationally and individually are
''’in the direction of an all-round uplift. And
it is equally easy to observe that when 10.000
• children are born and 8000 survive, things
are going better than when 15.000 arrive
and 7500 die. But are they, if the exceptional
survival is almost wholly in the homes of
the poor and the restricted births are in
the houses of the more affluent? This pane
has a suspicion that they are not. It a w
has a suspicion that this is what is taking
place. And it is fairly certain that the
economic significance of the child is goin?
in future to engage quite as much attention
as the merely physical aspect of the birth
rate revealed in the calculations of the statis
tician. For when figures have been turned
upside down and inside out. and all the
irrelevancies about morals and civic obliga-
tions and so on have been stripped awav
there is this inescapable fact—that the State
penalises maternity by the taxation of men
and women according to the size of their
families.
* * * *
The proposal made by Arthur was. of
course, a piece of raw dough. A much more
complete investigation is necessary. It j s
obviously absurd from the standpoint of
practical politics to talk about the State
handing over to everyone who has more than
two children a dole of ss. a week for each.
To do this on the ground that out of 280,000
children an unspecified number would other-
wise get inadequate nourishment would afford
a spectacle of generosity gone mad. Even if
it be true that many parents have to perform
miracles of economy in order to feed their
children and the youngsters often enough go
dirty and ill-clad, live in sordid surround-
ings and drift into dead-end occupations, it
is also true that many children have more
food and clothes and teddy-bears than is good
for them, and that the parents still encounter
no serious difficulty in keeping their credi-
tors at bay. What sense would there be,
for instance, in forcing several shillings
every Friday on Richard Arthur, a fairly
prosperous professional man, because Mick
Mcßabbito’s family had been going a bit
short? And why tax people to provide cash
for Hereford Merino, Esq., who has more
than he knows what to do with, anyhow?
The answers to these questions are that
Arthur was simply piffling with his sub-
ject. Approached on such lines as he sug-
gests, there is nothing to be reached except
a maze of barbed wire. Even to subsidise
the man with insufficient income to support
his children would, in most cases, be no
more at rockbottom than the endowment of
the parsimonious employer, the anaemic in-
dustry and the slum landlord. The causes
of poverty and low wages and exorbitant
rents would be left where they were before;
and if the lunatic policy of Borrow and
Bloat were pursued as in the past, there
would before long be mournful yells for 10s.
instead of 55., and an insurrection of down-
trodden bachelors demanding a living wage
of £37 10s. per week in order to defray the
taxation arising out of the impetus given to
child-nroduction at their expense. More-
over, if N. S. Wales started a pension sys-
tem of this kind, the influx of population
from the other States would have to be. re-
pelled by a war regulation or something,
and grave complications might arise regard-
ing representation in the Senate. Altogether
the wholesale endowment proposition looks
like the guess of someone in a hurry.
Still the cost of the Australian child is a
very serious problem in thousands of house-
holds, and as the time seems to be expiring
when the youngster was probably the best-
off kid in the world, taking everything into
consideration, there is abundant reason for
the politician to arise and awake. The Aus-
tralian infant is being handed a tremen-
dously big contract by his lazy old man, and
is at least entitled to be well fed and cared
for until the dreadful truth about the p.u.
begins to dawn on him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bones for a Judge.
Every five minutes or so the Federal
Arbitration Court is heard through the
mouth of Justice Higgins remarking that
union executives should be strengthened Iff
being vested with greater authority over
members and recalcitrant branches. Hig-
gins appears to be convinced that if this
happened there would be fewer strikes or dis-
locations or whatever it is he cautiously re-
frains from applying a name to. An opinion
from lliggins on the subject is entitled to
respect, but The Bulletin would nnd it
fairly hard to treat this one with anything
more than respectfulness. Higgins .sits in a
remote place browsing on affidavits. Atn-
davits contain facts. But they also oiiu
facts. They are coffins in which legal bone,
are produced. And arriving at conclusions
about the malady which afflicted thehvmg
body from an inspection of bones is a difncu j
business, especially if sham bones are *
spected. And the number of sham bone
solemnly placed before Higgins lately ha\
been an impressive circumstance, 80
from there being any evidence in the nap
penings of the last month or two to s >
that union executives have too little aut i
ity the reverse is the case. Instead of
members having disobeyed the executl ■
there is irrefutable proof that executives ha
taken custody of the rights of members,
been themselves guilty of disobedience to
very charter of unionism. No execu
which honestly wanted to stop a nn „
being stampeded into the recent stt
failed in the effort. Of course it is easy
an executive which wants to evade P enil :
to produce a yarn about not being Tesp
ble, and so on, but the degree of credence
is entitled to is not most accurately mea
in the light shed by affidavits. This P ~
long ago came to the conclusion
until the unions are made definitely if l
sible for their acts, arbitration • ...
farcical. It sees no reason to alter tna
now or to suppose that giving exec
more authority would do anything t
the trouble at the root of all this bn
Hitherto the unions have been tnugn
they could dodge all responsibility, a
if they happened to fall into the s 1
easy method of getting out would
vided. If by way of a change tb J
made to understand that their fn® ‘. a
not somebody else’s, The Bulletl { | ie
suspicion that the relative author ity , gj e
executive of a union and. of the ran
would quickly be determined.


The Place Where the Specialist Should
Come Aboard.
Under the hifalutin title of the Social
Hygiene Bill the Maoriland Government in-
troduced legislation the other day dealing
with syphilis. The measure in its essential
parts is on the lines of the Westralian Act of
last year, providing for (1) detention and
(2) compulsory treatment by a medical prac-
titioner. It represents a much more coura-
geous state of mind on the part of M.L. poli-
ticians than had hitherto prevailed, and, on
the whole, is a good Bill. But there is a
point in connection with the treatment of
syphilis which Australian Governments
should take into earnest consideration, and
the Maoriland Ministry would be well
advised to pay some attention to. The pro-
vision that a sufferer from syphilis must seek
medical advice from a private practitioner or
at a public institution, and continue under
treatment in order to avoid detention, may
perhaps not be quite so thorough-going a
measure as Parliaments may yet have to
sanction before the fight against this disease
is over. But, while accepting the plan as
a workable instalment of reform, it may be
said withont throwing bricks at the profes-
sion that in the treatment of the disease
there is at least a fair proportion of medical
men who are very far from being specialists.
This is so for three reasons, the first being
that in the medical schools syphilis has until
lately been regarded as a mere detail; the
second that the modern methods of treat-
ment are of quite recent discovery; the
third that to the general practitioner in many
districts a case of syphilis is a rarity. These
considerations apply with particular force
to a country like Maoriland, and though the
ordinary Sawbones may have enough wit
and have kept his reading sufficiently up to
date to know what to do with some of the
strange drugs now used in combating syphi-
lis, and to be able to make correct diagnosis,
it is certain that there are a fair number
who would be as badly gravelled by syphilis
as by an eccentric thyroid gland. It would
not be difficult for this paper to show that
men have been treated at a syphilis com-
pound in Australia upon lines which would
provoke the derision of specialists in the
disease —have, indeed, actually provoked
derision. As there are some medical men
who would no more think of personally
operating upon the duodenum than of join-
ing the 1.W.W., so there are others who
would not meddle with syphilis, and it is to
their credit that it is so. Rut that does
not cover all the ground, and the public
should protect itself. What is the objection
to medical men in. say. Maoriland, whose
treatment of a syphilitic patient is going
to be accepted by the State, registering for
that special purpose, as they have to do for
certain purposes under the Public Health
Act? And what would be the objection to
the method of treatment and to diagnosis
and prognosis being subject to review by a
public officer whose qualifications as a
specialist gave him the necessary status for
such a job? It is wise to rescue the syphilitic
man or woman from the clutches of the
unqualified harpy with an ointment and a
pill. But the enemy is so malignant, the
danger so pressing, that if the patient is to
be forced to seek treatment elsewhere or
have treatment forced upon him, the obliga-
tion is heavy on the State to see that the
intravenous and the intermuscular injection
and the spoonful-three-times-a-day-after-
meals are handed out in conformity with the
most approved methods, instead of in the
twilight of imperfect knowledge.
Repatriation—Who is to be
Repatriated?
A medical view of it: —
The really vital question is—Who is to be repatri-
ated ? It is an understood thing that every Aus-
tralian soldier who held a steady job in Government
or private employment when he enlisted will be
welcomed back to that job. Adding to these the
men who were working for themselves, at least 75
per cent, of those who come back in a condition of
reasonable physical fitness will, automatically, repatri-
ate themselves. There should be no difficulty in
absorbing the balance in the course of the revival
of progress and commerce which is an inevitable
sequel of great wars. They will not —or should
not —come 1 i ck penniless. All expenses of living,
clothing and housing during their period of service
have been covered, and in addition they have had
the highest lates of pay and the largest allowances
that any Government has ever given to its home-
grown soldiers. Those who do come back stone-
broke will be fought for by the numerous organisa-
tions which administer the millions of money sub-
scribed by a generous Australia for just this purpose.
Sound, healthy Billjim, therefore, does not appear
to be in any need of repatriation schemes.
Wounded or sick Billjim is another and a more
real problem. Presuming that 100,000 of our men
return more or less impaired by injury or disease
contracted on active service, a huge system of pen-
sions, military hospitals and civil medical services
is already in working order, and has been created
for the special purpose of attending to their needs.
At least 50 per cent, of them will be rendered suffi-
ciently fit for the practical purposes of civil life
within 12 months of their return. The remaining
50,000, comprising the blind and otherwise per-
manently maimed, would seem to present the only
reasonable objective for a repatriation scheme. Pen-
sions, hospitals and free medical attendance would
seem to have provided already for a considerable
amount of the solid, tangible gratitude to which
these brave men are honestly entitled from the
country in whose defence they have spent their
strength and health. Why, then, these extra two
scores of millions that are to be borrowed ? Returned
Billjim cannot, obviously, be exempted from tax-
ation, and he will have to bear his part of the
additional burden. That being so, will he approve
of so enormously expensive a system, with such a
very great lack of reasonable explanation about it?
If he does not agree, there are some very warm days
ahead for those who are responsible for it.
Meanwhile, the ordinary thinking sort of Aus-
tralian who has not, for one reason or another,
had the great honor and privilege of helping Bill-
jim to do his job on the spot, is beginning to wonder
whether it is not up to him to protect the men
who are away, by insisting upon a clear explanation
of what is behind this repatriation scene-cloth. If
it turns out to be merely another gang of politi-
cians, with nothing to offer beyond a quantity of
hot-air and an intention to borrow more money as
long as anyone will lend it, then it will be up to
Australia to do something definite.
The Campaign in Palestine.
“C.D.”: In what follows I claim no credit
for myself in the slightest. I did my “tap,”
but the glory of the Egyptian campaign is to
the regimental officers and men of the
mooted troops. Between February, 1916,
and March, 1917, these men were hardly ever
48 hours without a scrap of some kind, and
sustained 83 per cent, of the casualties. The
infantry’s work in Egypt has been to guard
the Canal; that of the Light Horse has been
to drive the Turk across 200 miles of desert.
You hear now of the fine railway through
Sinai. It is a feat of which we are proud,
and so we are of the water-pipe; but neither
was possible until the desert for miles ahead
was cleared of Turks. Our boys were the
pioneers, and as such were always 10 to 30
miles beyond the railhead. How many real-
ise what that means? Observation posts
by day beneath a blistering sun ; lonely out-
posts by night; reconnaissances; patrols;
constant skirmishing and scouting. Most
of the work was done by night, and what
the awe of the desert is only those who have
experienced it know. Every inch of the
way from the Canal to Gaza was first
crossed by our Light Horsemen, the Maori-
land Mounted Rifles and the British Yeo-
manry, and never once did they lose a fight
or suffer a surprise. But they have had to
pay the price, and the shortage of the regi-
ments explains why the men have practically
never had a spell. In France, too, they have
the advantage of a superior air-service, which
our boys certainly have not. Our fastest
’planes in June were 90 miles per hour and
the enemy’s poorest were 120. You don’t
need to be a military genius to see what that
means.
■ + .
National Frills.
Tiie witnesses before the Westralian Com-
mission who point the finger of economic
scorn at the well-displayed ankle of the nice
girl as a prime cause of the lessened pur-
chasing power of wages are only talking
round the question. Mary’s pursuit of
fashion does not in itself make the nation
poorer. It is only because Mary’s
fashions and the rags to achieve them are
imported from overseas and made by foreign
workers, to the constant loss of those who
might make them in Australia, that the boot
with the long top pinches on the public foot.
Made in Australia out of purely Australian
materials there would be nothing to cry out
about. Fashion we cannot fight against
or despise. It is inherent in the race; and
if by pressure of world events we were
forced back to the wearing of a bunch of
gum-leaves and a waistlet of feathers, the
shape of the bunch and the dangle of the
waistlet would still occasion the wearer a lot
of concern. But the economic forces behind
fashion can be controlled for the national
good. There are jobs in great number for
Australian workers—pleasant jobs bordering
on art and akin to poetry—which we are
constantly handing over to somebody else to
do for us, as if killing sheep were all our
Australian manhood could undertake and
walloping the domestic pot were all to which
our womanhood can be trained. Among
the half-converted tariff-sinkers and duties-
for-revenue politicians feminine fashions are
likely to be about the last things brought
under effective Protection. On many grounds
they should be among the first things. The
make and shape of the things we wear and
see worn have a lot to do with the forming
of a national soul. In its distinctive dress
the whole character of many a nation may
be read ; and in the lack of distinctive dress
the absence of a nation’s character is apt
to be assumed. But the chief reason of all
for protection in the field of dress is its big
economic importance. Because Australia
needs all her resources and cannot afford to
throw her most pleasantly-earned cash to
the stranger the problem should be tackled
in earnest; and now, when the old world is
less than ever concerned about such matters,
would seem to be the new land’s surpassing
opportunity.
The Victorian Government proposes to go
into the business of electrical supply and to
devote the Morwell brown coal deposits to
that end. The reason for deciding on brown
coal as the chief source of power remains
wrapped in mystery. Several schemes have
been put forward for the utilisation of the
water-power of the State, but, though the
capital has been forthcoming for experi-
ments, the Government has regarded them
with a cold eye. Experts have over and
over again stated that there is enough water
available in such streams as the Upper Goul-
burn, the Kiewa, the Mitta and the Snowy
River to provide power for the industries of
Victoria for many years to come; and money
spent on dams and reservoirs is a provision
for posterity and definitely creates natural
resources instead of wasting them. More-
over, the experience of Finland and other
countries shows that water-power is a use-
ful force in decentralisation. Electricity
loses something in energy during the process
of transmission, and for the sake of cheap-
ness the factories tend to creep up to the
source of supply. This is an argument that
does not usually count with Australian Gov-
ernments, but it ought to be pushed by every-
one who wants to break up the congestion of
the Six Cities. While the reasons for using
brown coal as a source of electric supply are
obscure, the reasons against it, at this stage,
are plain enough. It is claimed triumphantly
that there are 1000 million tons in the Mor-
well deposits. Reduced to black-coal values
that is about the output of Britain for the
year preceding the war! And no scheme of
afforestation can make the brown coal grow
again when the original deposit has been
despoiled. The supply being so limited, then,
it is a plain duty to use it in the most
economical way. Everyone knows that the
use of fuel is a wasteful way to generate
electricity. The operation of thermo-dynamic
laws decrees that only one-third of the heat-
ing value of the coal can be distilled in elec-
tric energy. There are other and higher
purposes for which the coal is suitable —the
production of oils, spirits, anilines and fer-
tilisers, not to mention its conversion into
gas. The whole matter calls for a report
from a committee of independent engineers,
before the Victorian public is committed to
a definite scheme that might prove both
costly and wasteful. That the coal should
be used is indisputable. That Vic. should
have a big electric scheme is indisputable,
too. But if some other now-wasted power
can supply the current, while the coal can
be turned into various products just as valu-
able, the State will obviously be greatly the
gainer.
♦
A South Aus. Commission has reported
against municipalising gas and electric-light
services, but recommends legislation on the
lines of the N. S. Wales Gas Act. If S. Aus.
follows those lines it will find the bones of
the Gadarene swine at the end of the jour-
ney. The N. S. Wales measure is worse than
ineffective; setting out to stop the cos. from
doing various things, it actually gives them
greater latitude than they had before. The
cardinal mistake was in permitting the cos.
to capitalise their reserves—in other words,
to fix their capital at an amount equal to
the uttermost value of their assets —at the
same time making 10 per cent, the standard
rate of dividend. Alongside the standard
rate of dividend was a standard price of
gas; and the cos. were permitted to charge
that price so long as they did not divide more
than 10 per cent. It was obviously absurd
to expect the cos. to forthwith pay 10 per
cent, on the largely written-up capital; actu-
ally the cos. that come under the Act are
paying, as a rule, about 6 per cent. This
means that for very many years to come
the gas cos. will get all the benefits from
improvements in methods of production, in-
crease of population, etc., since there is to
be no decrease of price until a co. pays more
than 10 per cent. Further, the Act permits
cos. to put up the price in certain circum-
stances ; and as those- circumstances have
arisen, most of the people affected by the
Act are paying 4d. per 1000 more than they
did before the Act was passed. In every
other important respect the measure has
failed in the practical test. One object was
to prevent cos. stuffing away profits made
out of excessive charges; but they are doing
it—or some of them are—in the same old
way. And as for the quality of the article
supplied, it probably never was so bad ; and
the law has proved incapable of compelling
the cos. to make it better. Before S. Aus-
tralia follows in the footsteps of N. S.
Wales in this matter, it should, then, at least
ask the Minister for Labor and Industry,
who administers this law, if he would oblige
with a few observations on the subject.
♦ ;
It isn’t only that this wretched voluntary
system fails to get half enough recruits:
many of those whom it does get are
roped in by specious talk, which is going to
cause no end of trouble. As a matter of
fact, the trouble often begins as soon as the
young man puts his nose inside a training
camp. It has been represented to him that
he is a hero, and he proceeds to act accord-
ingly—and then the harvest starts. The
very latest scheme won’t improve matters.
There are young men who have been hanging
around this country in khaki because they
have been “going for commissions,” and
when they have got their star there have
been no men for them to go with. Some of
these young fellows, who ought to have been
at the Front long ago, have been 15 months
in khaki, drawing pay all the time. And
when they get to the other side they will
still have to go through a course of training.
The newest idea is that some of these sur-
plus officers shall go out recruiting; they
are to be sent to get, say, 75 men, on the
understanding that they will command them
and be sent off with them as soon as possi-
ble. The Bulletin sympathises with the
Director of Recruiting, who is hard put to
it to fill what the Sydney Telegraph calls
“the vacant gaps” ; but this is a dangerous
scheme, all tne same. No young officer’s
chance of early departure for the Front
should be dependent upon his ability to rope
in recruits; for the keener he is the more
inducements lie is likely to offer. There is
only one scientific way to get recruits, and
that is the way that England and America
and France have taken ; and that Hughes,
in order to save his own political skin, pro-
mised that he wouldn’t take that way is no
reason why Australia should be as poor a
weakling as the Prime Minister showed
himself to be.
From a wireless man :
The 70-odd wireless-operating Anzacs who have been,
marooned in Poona, India, for periods varying from
four to 12 months have been wondering for some
time past what’s to be their lot. Their unit is now
sparking usefully in Mesopotamia. Practically all
of them have recovered from the effects of one or
other of the various fevers that India specialises in.
Victor Hood, the Australian G.-G.’s private secre-
tary, gave them an interview when visiting out here
last January ; but this is about as far as it has got.
While the Australians sit and hope for active employ-
ment, they growl with reason at the two-rneals-a-day
scandal, whereby they get nothing to eat after 1 p.m.
until 9 next morning, unless one buys it himself.
Certainly 3d. a day was granted in lieu of a third
meal; but there are no cheap Y.M.C.A.’s here to
spend it at. A deduction of approximately 7s. a month
is made for extra messing which we don’t get, and for
barrack-room damages which we don’t do. But Aus-
tralia has had one victory in India, anyhow. Two
Billjims visited a high-priced cafe for dinner one
night and were told that only officers and civilians
could dine there. The Australians had to go to the
kitchen for a feed, paying the usual cafe charge.
Then a newspaper war started in the Times of India,
and Billjim, with the aid of his sisters and a major,
won the day.
The Bulletin is officially informed that
the matters of which the wireless man com-
plains were rectified as soon as they were
known to the Minister. In the exigencies of
war it is impossible to foresee into what
corner Billjim may be drafted, and local
authorities naturally don’t know Australian
rules.
+
And from another: —
The Port Kembla disaster was not all bad luck.
If the explosion had occurred out at sea very likely
there would have been no survivors; for, owing to
the fact that one of the vessel’s masts fell, no help
could have been summoned by wireless. This should
teach the Department of the Navy a lesson. Many
ships in English waters have a second aerial hanging
from a funnel to the wireless cabin, to be used if
the other aerial is broken through masts canting or
falling. Every wireless set has emergency apparatus
which is not dependent on power from ship’s mains,
but is contained within the room, and the combina-
tion of this with an emergency aerial ensures com-
munication. This second aerial should be insisted
on in the case of transports, if not of all vessels.
The cost would be only a couple of pounds. Wireless
apparatus is thoroughly tested in Australian ports
by the Navy Department; but a perfectly conditioned
set, so long as it is attached only to such a frail
thing as a single aerial, is not dependable.
“Cape Helles”: “Kopai” (B. 27/9/’l7)
mentions Pearce’s great window-dressing
- effort —the Australian Army Reserve. Here’s
one of the inducements to returned men to
join:—
Officers and N.C.O’s will be appointed to the
various Reserve Units as prescribed by the Regula-
lations, but in all cases shall be junior in rank to
Officers and N.C.O’s of corresponding rank in the
Citizen Forces.
Well, when Mad Bill ran loose I joined the
A.I.F. and departed to lend a hand in the
ehaining-up. Jones, a workmate, stayed
behind and secured a commission (pro-
visional) in the Citizen Forces. When I
returned, with rank of sergeant, honorably
discharged, Pearce asked me to join his
Reserve, in the language of his posters adver-
tising it, “to set before the young Citizen
Trainees a standard of self-sacrifice and
soldierly conduct.” My first job was to
salute Stayatiiome Jones as my superior
officer and to obey his orders. I really think
that Pearce is Australia’s greatest satirist.
—— ♦ •
After many years’ talk the N. S. Wales
wheat cocky has started a co-operative grain
co., which intends to handle wheat this
season. Years past there was an attempt to
do the same thing—with melancholy results,
in which a one-time prominent Calico politi-
cian figured. This time the influence of the
war gives the cockies a wonderful oppor-
tunity. Owing to the Wheat Pool the old
firms, such as Darling, Bell, Dalgety and
others, have little, if any, advantage over the
new concern. The farmers’ co. comes in as
one of the Government agents on the same
footing as the biggest and wealthiest com-
petitor. Naturally the old hands are doing
some hard thinking. If the growers stick to
the co-operative show, and if the co-operative
show is well managed, they will have their
wheat handled at bedrock cost, and this is
becoming necessary if the industry is to keep
in existence. Though the contention that it
costs, on an average, 4s. a bushel to produce
wheat can be taken with a tablespoonful of
salt, the grower certainly has had a very
rough passage the last four years, and wants
all the saving possible. His own co. ought to
be able to do a good deal of it for him. It is,
however, a matter of organisation ; if that is
weak or lacking, the whole thing may turn
out another horrible bush calamity. But the
risk applies any time. It would be a much
tougher proposition if the co. had to butt in
under old competing conditions, when the
price was fixed by the agents and big cash
resources could make a hard row for the
other fellow. The moral is to get the thing
firmly on its feet now. Cocky isn’t likely
to ever have such a chance again.
“Plumber” : A while ago a man I know
well got me to do a little job for him. When
it was finished I said two pounds five would
cover it, and he handed me the cash. Then
he said that the tanks at the little country
school of whose committee he was a mem-
ber wanted repairing. I did the job and
handed him the bill—for 15s. 6d. —and he
said he’d give it to the secretary. At the
beginning of the next month I sent along a
statement; next month another. Knowing
the Government is hard-up, I refrained
from pushing it; but when the third month
was nearing its close I hinted to my friend
that I might as well have the interest on
the cash as the Government, even if it was
only a penny. He said he’d see the secre-
tary. The secretary said he had sent the
account in long ago, and would make an
extra effort to get it settled. A fortnight
later came a letter from the Education De-
partment enclosing duplicate detailed and
circumstantial receipts, one of which I was
to sign and give to the sec., who would give
me an endorsed form, which with the other
receipt I was requested to present at the
Education Department’s office in Melbourne.
I followed the instructions, and when I
breasted the counter a small boy or acting-
sub-assistant accountant received the two
documents and courteously asked me to be
seated. I said I wasn’t that tired. Pre-
sently a slightly older gentleman—presum-
ably a deputy-assistant-accountant—came
along and invited me to sign the receipt and
another duplicate. I waited further minutes,
filling in time by watching other adminis-
trators seated at well-accoutred desks swap-
ping the newest Pankiiurst jokes. Finally
a third sub-deputy-assistant-etc. came 'along
with a nicely printed and carefully-crossed
cheque for the 15s. (id. It is quite a feat
getting money out of a State Department,
and I would like the officials to know that
this is my third experience of that sort, and
that ss. Gd. of the 15s. 6d. was put on to
recoup myself for loss of time and the
bother of getting the cash.
“Rustic” : Six hundred and ninety-one
applicants recently entered for a Crown
lease of about 5000 acres in N. S. Wales.
The Board “raddled” them down to 454, and
the first marble to come out of the barrel
was claimed by a well-known bookmaker!
In a sense, no doubt, his knowledge of horses
comes under the heading of “farming experi-
ence,” which those in the gamble are sup-
posed to have. Were all these men genuinely
land-hungry? Not much! They included
the rich man, the lawyer, anyone. No deposit
was required, and astute agents can always
find applicants at a guinea a time. A man
drawing a block of this kind can let it for
agistment for £SOO or so a year, and he can
% get exemption from residence for practically
'any old reason. If he can hold on with a
minimum of residence for five years he can
transfer —again any old reason will suffice —
when he can get £SOOO (£1 per acre).
Roughly, £ISOO a year for five years. It’s
a great game ! Isn’t it time that some cer-
tificate of qualification was insisted upon?
Why should land not be reserved for those
who put in, say, three to five years in agri-
cultural colleges or getting their experience


r C/?e a D2u.sfra.fi<3L
yy
ft
4Ti
cat
Vr" tre °f^
Clt y^_L»^_dndc o i
20h
m
m
m
:
il
Wfnter Garden
r->
rr-
«•***■* v.
mi+mmm
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B. ths.
New Furnishinos.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit-
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals—ft la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SIPPIA'.
by hard farm work? At present the Board
seemingly accepts a man’s say-so that he
has had experience in farming, grazing or
dairying, and the result is liable to be that
a fraud whose practical knowledge of the
soil is nil leaves the genuine farmer stand-
ing at the sliprails.
♦
The Hit-back at the Cave Man.
Even if the German considers there are
indirect military advantages in experiment-
ing on John Bull’s psychology with bombs
dropped from aloft, he is probably ready to
admit that he got it in the neck himself last
week. The five Zeppelins brought down in
France on the way home from a baby-mur-
dering expedition to the Thames represent
a disaster to the enemy’s air service of con-
siderable magnitude. Incidentally the cap-
ture of these giant sausages looks more like
the reprisal the circumstances of the moment
demand than the mere pitching of explosives
into German towns. When the Allies’ air
fleets are brought up to full strength they will
find their most useful employment in pur-
suing the hostile flier and thus and other-
wise blinding the Hun armies rather than
in giving imitations of the German as a
homicide. The dramatic chase by the
French airmen of these wandering murder-
cages through the clouds of night, the freez-
ing vigil of the hunted Germans hovering
high in the air while waiting for dawn to
give them a glimpse of the planet below,
the, final collapse of the airships, and the
capture of the survivors and the collection
of the others’ remains—all this weird mix-
ture of adventure and applied science makes
one of the most thrilling pictures of war
yet presented to a shuddering world. Contem-
plation of it creates much more cheerful
emotions than can be derived from the news
relating to the other side of the scrimmage.
Over there chaos goes on multiplying itself
from day to day. The Russian fleet having
been bottled up, the German established in
virtual command of the Gulf of Riga, the
old armies of the Czar reduced to a condi-
tion of impotence, and authority a mere
figment of the imagination, the question of
what may happen next scarcely seems worth
bothering about. As the winter is coming
on and food supplies are short, and Keren-
sky has been lamenting the condition of
“appalling anarchy” in the provinces, all
the materials are available for almost incon-
ceivable tragedy. In any case is it worth
while thinking of Russia as likely to be a
serious factor in the war? The country is
a prey to disorder, and, unless somebody else
beats the German, will soon be a prey to
Prussianism. That beating will have to be
on the Western Front, and, desperate though
the enterprise may seem, and terrible though
the fighting to come may be, the events of
the past month give great hope that the job
will yet be finished and a mediaeval savagery
buried in the ash-heap of its own making.
A Recent Price-fixing Farce.
A couple of months ago, either to counter
a yell from the public or to give the dealers
a chance, the N. S. Wales Government de-
cided to fix prices for meat, and handed over
the job to Judge Edmunds, who had helped
Hughes “settle” the last-but-one big coal-
strike. The deed was done, the public got
its price-fixing ordinance, and there is some-
thing more than a strong suspicion that the
chop has in consequence been much more
expensive than if the learned Edmunds had
not been incited to interfere. The method of
fixing was lovely. Here is the explanation
given to Inter-State Commissioner Pidding-
ton the other day by an executive officer of
the Graziers’ Association—one of the persons
sent for by Judge Edmunds to help him: —
Plddington: How was the price for the retail
trade arrived at?
Witness: Well, Judge Edmunds appointed a com-
mittee constituted with two representatives each from
the pastoral industry, carcase butchers, stock and
station agents and retail trade, and one each repre-
senting pork and veal interests. The committee
recommended certain prices.
Did you take any evidence?—-We only discussed
the question.
It was a round-table gathering, with no investiga-
tion into profits ?—There was no investigation. We
met and gave Judge Edmunds our recommendations.
Were the prices fixed to allow sellers to get rid
of stock they purchased at the big rise of £3 a
head for cattle and from 6s. to 7s. a head for sheep?
—Our recommendations to Judge Edmunds covered
that.
The recommendations of that committee were
adopted, and have been the prevailing
charges for meat ever since, to the great
satisfaction of nearly everybody concerned
except the individual who pays for the leg of
mutton. The Bulletin now asks why the
future price of meat should not be experi-
mentally determined by a committee com-
posed of the restaurant-keepers’ executive
and 17 delegates chosen by the mothers of
suburban families. If this is objected to it
will be necessary for someone to explain in
what way such a tribunal would be less
ridiculous than the one whose findings
have been controlling the cleaver lately.
There has always been reason for suspect-
ing that in relation to Sydney's meat supply
a fairly able-bodied nigger is concealed in the
woodpile. The difference between the price
at which meat is sold for export and sus-
pended on a hook in the retail-dealer’s shop
leaves no doubt that the law of supply and
demand is operating with a string attach-
ment. One possible method of severing this
is for the State to place on meat exports a
duty equivalent to the difference between the
price at which meat is sold for shipment and
is made available for satisfying the local
appetite. As the business has been worked
hitherto, the export trade has operated to
keep the local market short, substantial pro-
fit being made from buying up a certain per-
centage at low price for shipment, and either
peddling the remainder at an increase or
leaving it to be fought for by retail traders.
There are theoretical and practical objec-
tions to this duty. One of the most cogent
is that the result might be to make foreign
rings and combines of meat-dealers and ship-
ping companies the ultimate price-fixing
authorities. The answer to this is that these
institutions are in full blast now, anyhow,
and that if they became more objectionable
the time would be ripe to invent new
methods of dealing with them. The current
method of price-fixing is incredibly foolish.
Either the State must leave the whole thing
alone or take control of production (or impor-
tation, as the case may be), and get an effec-
tive grip on the article close to its point of
origin, and sell accordingly. An export duty
such as is here suggested, not for the purpose
of raising revenue, but for protecting the
consumer from an organised squeeze, would
give the State the grip required at a mini-
mum of cost and without imposing on Judge
Edmunds and a committee of dealers the
necessity for putting up a calamitous sham.
L. O. Martin is going to win Dicky Price’s
Gloucester seat in the N.S.W. Assembly or
the Government will look very foolish. He
carries the “National” party’s nomination.
And deserves it. For years he has been
nursing the seat —and incidentally building
up a very lucrative solicitor’s business in the
electorate. Once at Wade’s request he stood
down; last general election he beat I’rice
rather easily in the first round, but went
out in the second ballot. He is a lawyer,
and that is almost the only thing that can
be said against him.
Out of 135 candidates who have so far
declared themselves for the 65 seats in the
Vic. Assembly, five only are returned sol-
diers, one is a soldier abroad, and another is
about to leave on active service. Lieut.
Kennedy Smith, M.L.A. for Dundas, now in
the 30th General Hospital recovering from
wounds received in action in France, has
sent three different nomination-papers, and all
have gone astray. Local Liberal bodies got
together to choose a candidate to fill the
vacant chair, but the Ministry put through
a little bill validating Smith’s cabled nomi-
nation. Gordon Webber, who represents
Abbotsford, will be unopposed, as lie is ip
khaki and probably on the boat by this
time. Returned-soldier Major Baird is
unopposed for Ballarat West. Captain T.
C. Naples and Lieut. Hoban are both going
for Warrenlieip in opposition to Laborite
Hogan, the sitting member. Sergeant-major
Leveson will try to push Oswald Snowball,
of Brighton, out of the Parliamentary job
which Bent left him ; and Sergeant Bunting
is to make one of seven candidates for Gi’en-
ville, the electorate abandoned by John
Chatham (Labor), who thinks he will serve
his country better on his farm.
Bilanderson himself could not have staged
it better. The plot was of that kind which,
threadbare on the boards, is never trite in
real life. There was even a constable with
the unbelievably characteristic name of
Michael Murphy. A well-appointed motor-
car slid up to the Grand Hotel in Melbourne;
there three of its occupants stepped out, leav-
ing at the wheel Rupert Syme Macalister, of
Tarrawarra Estate, Healesville. Estimable
James Cleeland Pigdon, elderly and of inde-
pendent means, quitted the hotel and entered
the car, but left it at the peremptory order
of Macalister’s mother. Then came a flash
and a report, and Macalister’s arm had a
bullet wound in it. Macalister’s father
seized Pigdon, and the hall porter disarmed
him. “What did you do it for?” asked Con-
stable Murphy, and Pigdon, it was deposed,
replied: “Silence is golden—l wish I had
killed him.” Cross-examination in court
showed that Pigdon’s daughter, a girl of 17,
had been a visitor at the house of Macalister.
sbnior, and that certain passages had
occurred between Macalister junior and her-
self. The young man announced at the pre-
liminary trial that he was now her husband,
both sides of the house having given consent
to the wedding. Nevertheless Pigdon was
sent on for trial for shooting with intent to
do grievous bodily harm- So it still remains
to be seen whether they will manage the
Court scene as sensibly as they would do it
on the stage—a free pardon, blessings all
round, and exeunt the young couple with
the. reconciled father-in-law waving them to
their motor.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
On„,r ney . BHmvs . F °.“
} v Sm Hll ’ PODROMB . ;;;;. ,“. Th !?&■
Tivoli ..." Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. ;
Her Majesty’s “General John Regan (
royal “Good Gracious, Annabelle
7. “Gran’dad Rudd”
Auditorium a j
Tivoli . Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mki.ua Moving Pictures
Britannia ’ Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Hippodrome Wirths Circus
Repertory Theatre-goers rallied at Mel-
bourne Playhouse last Saturday for one
consecutive revival of Galsworthy’s “The
Pigeon,” described as a Fantasy because the
author could think of no other term of
apology. Critically considered, “The Pigeon’
is an amusing imposition on the apostles of
Culchaw and leaders of Advanced Thought.
The story shows nothing that hasn’t been, in
social evidence since modern civilisation
began; the English characters are conven-
tional types; the two alleged Irish charac-
ters are a Cockney English couple disguised
as Megan, and the philosophical immoralist
of the piece is a French' waster who talks,
with foi’eign air and accent, all the eternal
British truisms which would count as stale
news if delivered in a lecture hall by a mem-
ber of the House of Commons. His well-
chosen language sounds impossible to one
who speaks it so foreignly. Theatrically
considered the part of Louis Ferrand is
Gregan McMahon’s best. He represents the
didactic, lazy, selfish, humbugging, specious
socialist to the life. He and his co-mates in
worthlessness blow into the studio of a phil-
anthropic artist who goes around town giv-
ing his card to the beery and depressed. His
studio has two swing doors which open into
a dark street, and other doors opening into
bedrooms where his vagrant visitors doss
on occasion. His philanthropy is crowned
with conclusive evidence of its futility; after
which the loquacious alien moralises on the
conventional shams of civilisation and the
fundamental verities of human nature, and
the souls in the audience probably think they
feel better for the sermon. But, like the
vicar’s stolid farmer-tenants who vainly tried
to get drunk on claret, they are really no
for’arder than when they started. Helton
Daniell had no apparent conception of the
eccentric philanthropist character. But
Miss Anderson filled the amateur bill as the
young Cockney wife of the alleged Megan;
Skewes passed very well for the sodden ruins
of a fallen cabman; and David Low. as
Megan, had all the air and incipient whiskers
of a David Sikes, born to be hanged. The
best friends of the young man sat horrified
at the disclosure. In addition, his histrionic
“GENERAL JOHN REGAN," AT HER
MAJESTY’S, MELBOURNE.
Cyril Marde as Dr-
Lucius O'Grady.
Edward Lester us
Major Kent.
success was painful. After “The Pigeon”
came “Over the Hills,” a flimsy episode in
the life of a comfortably-married man who
likes to kid himself that the call of the tem-
pest is in his blood, and his greatest joy in
life would be to toy with the whirlwind and
trifle with the storm—as in the days when
he went walking tours with Hugh McCrae.
Fortunately his calm, plump wife persuades
him to go out and get wet with his bachelor
friend, and he returns, dripping, to his own
fireside, cured of spouting poetry and pre-
tending to be a devil for fresh air and free-
dom. If this be humor it is soft as butter,
and if it be meant for satire it must be aimed
at an imaginary mark for suffragettish ridi-
cule.
A first reason for the Melbourne slump
in Cyril Maude stock is that the public
rarely warms again to an actor who returns
to resume a success which was supposed to
have terminated with his previous visit.
Moreover, Maude changed his spot for the
second coming, and is now deploring the
fickleness of the populace at a theatre asso-
ciated with musical comedy, where thin
farcical comedy looks very lean indeed.
“General John Regan” would seem out of
place at Melbourne Majesty’s in any case.
It wouldn’t even appeal to an Allen Doone
audience under the heading of “Good News
for the Irish.” The adorers of Doone are
Sydney Tivoli.
One of the Sheldons.
always looking for
fhlattery. They ex-
pect to be filled
with a sense of the
gallantry of Irish
bhoys and the
swateness and wit
of Irish colleens,
whilst the general
dhirtiness of every-
thing English is
accentuated. “Gen-
eral John Regan”
is a farcical com*
edy that does none
of these things. It
presents a West of
Ireland village as
the sleepiest place
on God’s earth,
where the pretty
little colleen is a
picture of stupid-
ity and ignorance,
and the two other
women are tiresome, and the leading Sinn
Feiner is a beetle-browed specimen of dis-
eased patriotism, and the hotelkeeper, police-
men and other inhabitants, bar one, are wit-
less sons of the ould sod.
Cyril Maude is the bright exception. lie
is the impossible dispensing doctor who
works up a conspiracy in favor of a statue
of John Regan when an impossible Yankee
'tourist says the village ought to have one.
The fact that such a Regan never existed is
as obvious as the triviality of the scheme for
erecting the statue, yet it is announced at
the finish as though it were a humorous sur-
prise for the audience. A more unconvinc-
ing stage play never fell flat on meagre
audiences. The energy and volubility of
Cyril Maude give a certain amount of enter-
tainment ; the simple prettiness of Miss
Betty Murray is interesting; Scanlan’s
Sinn Feiner is almost pathetic under present
political circs.; and Frank Elliott’s picture
of a vapid A.D.C. to the Lord-Lieutenant
is a study of johnniedom in distress. Also
the village of Ballymoy, by George Upward,
offers suggestions of a realism that is utterly
wanting in all the situations and most of the
accents. Herbert Ransom’s attempt to talk
smart Yankee and act accordingly is only
one weak feature of an uneven performance.
* * * *
By way of giving weight to the bill the
Screen Scene from “School for Scandal” pre-
cedes the farce. This is more effective than
when it was recently played at a War Fund
matinee with a Lady Susan in the cast. Miss
Dorothy Gumming makes a positively lovely
Lady Teazle, and is rather admirable in her
acting until she becomes penitent and lapses
into melodrama. With all her faults of
inexperience Miss Cumming is a Lady Teazle
of some distinction, whereas Ransom and
Elliott are two Surfaces of no personality
whatever. Cyril Maude’s Sir Peter is much
the same as Grumpy without the chronic
asthma. For no conceivable reason he makes
up as the oldest and ugliest Peter that ever
was. Instead of a formal, old-fashioned
baronet of 50, he presents an undignified cen-
tenarian. It is doubtful if any man ever
lived to be as old as Maude’s wrinkled Sir
Peter looks.
“Baby Mine’s” demise is expected to-
morrow at Sydney Criterion. On Saturday
the home of “crook” drama, twin-beds and
triplets will be invaded by musical corned'.
“Mr. Manhattan.” with Louis Kimball as the
chief ingredient of the cocktail, will be sene'
for the first time in Sydney.
“The White Chrysanthemum” will wilt at
Sydnev Palace to-morrow evening: and on
Saturday the Taits will revive “Very Good
Eddie” for a week.
There is one place, at all events, where
the U-boat campaign is a total failure. G p -
many regularly loses eight submarines P
week at the Sydney Opera House, and
likely to go on doing it for many weeks ye ■


3 O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
&
DT
Swift & Company i<td., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney,
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
fIRE &, ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. Q - HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
lig
rw,
«*£<?£&';
v*;
p\;
*'\
*&■.
gNfef*
i&M
e
S.B.
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge,
the wonderful hinterland
Sunshine , Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers. A .glorious
season of soft sunshine
and Scenic splendour
A Booklet telltng all about it
is yours for the asking
/7// in this coupon •-
A'orne
Address
/o fAe Director of
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane, QUEENSLAND.
saiSiii-'
m
m
The Peapes Tropic-weight White Duck Clothes are ideal for beach
or bush wear. Light, strong, pre-shrunk materials and stout
sewing of the seams ensure good wear, despite frequent laundering.
In making these clothes material has not been skimped—hence the
garments have shape and style superior to the average.
Patrol Coat (illustrated) has 4 patch pockets, 2-inch stand collar,
military back. All buttons detachable.
YYTiite Duck or Drill Coats, 14/6; Trousers, 11/6.
Sac Coats, 13/6. Ready to wear. .
We Pay Postage.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
The Anderson series of revivals of good old
bellowdrama at the Hippodrome is filling a
long-felt want in Sydney. Each week the
bill is changed and each night the great shell
holds an audience to make glad the heart of
the manager. Bilanderson dropped in with
his menu at a good time —a time when a
big crowd of show-gluttons, overfed with puff-
pastry, might be relied upon to welcome some
good red meat. This week on the dish -was
••The ATllage Blacksmith”—nicely done. It
will be off to-morrow night, and “The AYorld
Against Her” will be served up on Saturday.
Sydney’s old friend Joseph Blascheek is
the headliner at the Tivoli this week, and
he and H. I). Alclnsplosh should have a warm
feeling of confidence in each other’s judgment
as a result of the great “hand” the newcomer
and his clever partner, Aliss Alyce Austin,
received. It was Blascheck’s first appear-
ance in vaudeville, and there ought to be a
long run in front of him. Ruth Budd says
good-bye this week, but The Bulletin is
not so downhearted as it would have been
had the hilarious Camille trio been also
booked to move on. AA’oodman, spare that
trio.
Sydney Lyceum attraction is Hall Caine’s
“Deemster,” with his son in the star rfde.
At the Globe, Alajestic and Haymarket
“The School for Husbands” draws a large
class every evening. Another Paramount
creation at the same houses shows Kathlyn
Williams being drawn from life’s whirlpools
into quiet anchorage through the “Redeem-
ing Love” of a young curate. Hoyt’s feature
the Ideal Co.’s £lOO prize scenario, “AVhoso
Is AA'ithout Sin” ; and the seekers after vivid
out-of-the-way coloring will find it in
“Golden Rule Kate” at the Crystal Palace,
and at the Strand, where “Poppy” dreams
in the purple mystery of her S’African
garden.
Napoleon’s unhealthy son will pass away
for the last time at Alelbourne Royal on
Friday night. Alarie Tempest and Graham
Browne return on Saturday to play “Good
Gracious, Annabelle,” in the first place, and
three other comedies thereafter.
At Alelbourne King's they have now been
at work on “Gran’dad Rudd” for five weeks,
and the box-office is still going strong.
Artistically the play is going stronger. The
hand of Time has touched up some effects
and toned down some others, and there is
much health in the Australian comedy. Next
Saturday afternoon the National Service
Girls give a matinee performance of “The
•Rivals” at the King’s.
“SEVEN DAYS LEAVE.” AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Terry Fielding finds a yellow streak in the
German spy ( Vivian Edwards).
The Follies have changed their items at
Alelbourne Tivoli and J. C. Alack has shifted
his Mother Goose to Switzerland; but the
nature of the show remains as before in both
instances. The Prince of Alonte Carlo is
still on the bill, and the Saturday-night rush
to the payboxes has abated none of its vigor.
Last Friday the AVirths commenced their
annual assault on Alelbourne with the old
dishevelled circus and menagerie that appeal
so strongly to the eyes and nose of Man. Since
the last visit the show seems to have shed some
human material, but the remaining artists
are sufficiently gifted to make you forget the
others. Among the stars the Riogokus con-
tinue to twinkle in a shapely turn, wherein
feet assume superhuman intelligence and
thrills are provided in unexpected places.
The Japs’ business is mostly of the Risley
order, but with their muscularity, certainty
and fine sense of balance every movement is
a picture. Alaximo, the Drunk on the
AA’ire, treads his narrow track with a con-
fidence and agility that should make it not
at all difficult for him to keep on the path of
rectitude. The foregoing artists disclose
their secrets on the stage, where also three
people, three dogs and a horse pose in im-
pressive tableaux. Further, the stage is the
class-room of four young lions which, with
various grievances awaiting expression,
scamper reluctantly through their lessons.
Down in the ring F. Welby Cook, the High
Priest of the Horse, cracks his whip over a
limited diocese of sawdust. 11 is Reverence
sets quantities of his favorite beast ambling
around the enclosure, and occasionally
plants jocks of both sexes on their backs to
give impetus to their circulation. The neddies
have no visible object in life, and, including
the proudly-paraded Lord Dudley, are hardly
equal in intelligence to the deputation of
elephants that interviews Cook, or the squad
of seals that performs marvels for Captain
Huling. Even the clowns make the geegees
look inferior, while a bear also proves by
comparison that the famous potentate’s offer
of a “kingdom for a horse” was putting a
ridiculous value on the animal. (P.S. —
There have been races lately.)
In comparison with “The Maelstrom,” at
Melbourne Alajestic, the work of Conan
Doyle, Gaboriau and other mystery-makers
is a nursery-rhyme. The picture opens with a
corpse, a plundered safe and a very dark
night, and the solution of the crime would
keep Melbourne’s Sainsbury thinking over-
time. A film fantasy, “Borrowed Plumage,”
dealing with the strife and times of pirate
Paul Jones, presents Bessie Barriscale in
an uncommon and engaging role. Also there
are some more Bairnsfather “Fragments”
and a Keystone comedy. “Cactus Jane,” with
Polly Moran as the grilled vegetable.
“On the Banks of Allan Water” ranks
high in the affections of Hoyt’s audiences in
Melbourne this week. It is an appetising
mixture of candy and curses, the confection-
ery being provided by a tangled romance
and the profanity by a member of the Rich
Uncle class. “Lady Barnacle,” showing the
winsome smile and winning tresses of Viola
Dana, is another favorite at Hoyt’s. Viola
is cast as a Alaharajah's daughter who brings
a whiff of the harem into stiff New England
homes.
“Air. Manhattan.” at Adelaide Royal,
shows again, as “High Jinks” showed, the
advantage to a musical play of having one
theme repeated again and again. Langford,
as the ragtime chauffeur, scores one of those
curious successes that only a real artist can
secure with a sudden entrance, a mere half-
dozen lines of song, and a dance off; and
when his ragtime notion is adopted by all
sorts of characters afterwards, it is always
hailed by the audience as a pleasant old
friend. Louis Kimball is the typical Ameri-
can hero, sentimental and funny; and as
heroines Carrie Afoore and Ethel Cadman
present a remarkable contrast. The Royal
has now gone cheerfully back to pictures.
The Tivoli shows Hall Caine’s “Woman
Thou Gavest Ale,” and the big stage offers
the elaborate setting every chance. At the
Alajestic the “Murphy” ei'owd puts up a new
sketch every week; the chorus is partiCu-
larly good-looking and athletic. In the first
half of the bill one of the recent Alanchurian
troupe gives a good single-handed turn.
West’s has the curious picture, “Idle AVives,”
showing how people who contemplate a
wrong turning should go to the pictures and
be shown to the right.
Nearly two years ago four Sydney lads,
six-footers all, Douglas, Stoekham. Tollis
and Smith, who had eadeted and militiaed
together, enlisted together in the A.1.F., and
later sailed away on the same ship, each with
a dull metal star on the shoulder. Now
they are casualties together, Douglas and
Stoekham with shock, Tollis wounded, and
Smith shot in the leg. But Leslie Charles
Burnett Smith (he hails from Rockdale)
went one better. He acquired a Military
Cross, which the fifth George pinned on his
tunic at the AVindsor town house the other
day, and lie has a third star also to carry
back to France.
The Bulletin sends its message of sym-
pathy to its old sub-editor George Black,
lately Chief Sec. of N. S. AA'ales. Airs.
Black died a few days ago, after a long
struggle with a mortal disease which began
with a tramcar accident. The gentle lady’s
patience and fortitude were equalled only by
her husband's devotion.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The memory of Maggie Knight, who died
in Prince Alfred Hospital at Sydney last
week, will long be green among Australian
players of the older school, for she was a
woman of singularly gentle character. Born
at Auckland (ALL.) away back in the late
’fifties, she made early acquaintance with
the stage, and at the age of eight was play-
ing regularly in America. Her earlier suc-
cesses in Australia were in leading parts with
Wybert Reeve, and it was soon after this that
she married Harry Jewett, best remembered
here as the Spider in George Rignold’s pro-
duction of “The Silver King,” and recently
director of the Jewett Players at Boston.
Later there was a visit to England, a return
under engagement to Williamson, Garner
and Alusgrove, and then a second marriage
—this time to Harry Henderson, now of
Alelbourne, then a partner in the shipping
firm of Henderson and Alacfarlane. After
living privately in Sydney for several years
the theatre called again, and Alaggie
Knight’s name became familiar in the cast
of productions by the AVilliamson manage-
ment and Bland Holt. In these later times
her best-remembered part was that of Honor
“THE PIGEON ” AND “OVER THE HILLS,” AT
MELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE.
Claude
Thomas
as the Prof.
Thomas Shelves
as Timson
the Cabman.
Spencer E.
Holroyd as
a husband.
Greg an
McMahon as
Louis Ferrand.
David Low
as Rory
Megan.
in “The Prodigal Son.” Her last perform-
ance was at a matinee production of “Caste ’
by Cyril Maude a few weeks ago. She was
everywhere popular among playgoers, for,
though without striking talents, she had an
easy, graceful style appropriate to the parts
she was usually seen in. Bruce Henderson,
her son, is with the army in France.
Taylor Darbyshire, long the J.C.W. gen-
eral manager in Melbourne, is shifting camp,
having been transferred to headquarters at
Sydney. C. B. Westmacott changes over to
Melbourne.
51. P. Adams, who has pushed his wire
and whipcord frame ahead of drama, circus,
concert and picture shows in ’Stralia,
Maoriland, the Cold Country, the East
Indies and other parts, has finished hustling
for the time being. He is now a fixture at
the Star and Victoria picture-houses in
Bourke-street, Melbourne —a pair of theatres
in which the J.C.W. people have taken a
hand. In 1910-11 Adams battled a movie
show through Vic., covering 7000 miles and
doing 250 "smalls” in 310 consecutive nights.
It is probably a world’s record. With “On
Our Selection” he hustled Dad Bailey and
co. at such a speed that the Rudd family
nearly collapsed from exhaustion.
lan Maciaren will play Hamlet at 'Mel-
bourne King's when the time comes for
Steele Rudd to retire in favor of Shakspeare.
Maciaren should luake a likeable Hamlet —
tall, slim and well-spoken. For some of the
soliloquies and for the interview with the
Players and the yarn with the grave-digger
he might be picked out of a crowd of Melan-
choly Danes.
When Cyril Maude leaves for the U.S.A.
he will take with him Stephen Scanlan,
whose biggest Australian effort was made as
the Doctor in “Damaged Goods.” and Harry
Sweeney, who has proved a credit to his
tailor in dozens of productions in these
parts.
“Glen H.” : A cable received by Alf Tur-
ner, Cyril Maude’s manager, tells of the suc-
cess in London of Haddon Chambers’s latest,
“The Saving Grace,” which has been put on
by Charles Hawtrey. Maude has the Ameri-
can rights of the comedy, although up to now
he has seen only three of its four acts. The
other met a submarine, and is a very moist
last act by now.
“Quinneys’,” the Vacliell comedy with
which Gregan McMahon opened Melbourne
Playhouse, is to be presented in Sydney on
November 3. McMahon is to produce it for
the Tait brethren and play his old part ol
Joe Quinney. Otherwise the will be
supplied from the “Peg o’ My Heart co.
Bert Bailey is to play the inevitable Dame
in the new panto which the Taits pro-
duce in conjunction with Bailey and Grant
at Melbourne King’s. Some years ago he
appeared as the red-nosed widow in an
Anderson panto. The Dame is always a
widow in a Christmas Annual. If he wasn t
a widow he couldn’t make matrimonial over-
tures to the stone-broke baron, or the king
of the foreign country where everybody
comes to Court in the second act. Moreover,
if he wasn’t a boozer’s relict he couldn’t
patter for 10 solid minutes of the trying
times he used to have with his first, husband.
Whatever else he may be or do it is safe to
bet that Bailey will have a sad and sordid
Past.
“Harrison O.”: The thing I like about
“General John Regan” is that it does not
throw a single sop to lovers of sentimental-
ity. In English dramatic literature, from
Shakspeare to Shaw, I cannot recall one
other successful
farce in whicli
love's young scheme
has not intruded.
The sentimentality
of many Yankee
farces is nauseat-
ing, and even in
the most casual of
British laugh-
makers there has
been a perfunctory
acknowledgment of
the emotion that is
alleged to make the
world go round.
By refusing to
dilute the wine of
his wit with milk
for amative babies,
the reverend author
of “John Regan”
has added greatly
to the strength and
snap of the play.
He does not get off
the track, the plot
shows itself right
at the beginning,
and as soon as it
is worked out the
author brings down
the curtain, not to
the sound of kisses
in the offing, but
with a piece of humorous impudence in
keeping with the spirit of the farce.
Still another big movie co.: —
The Selwyns, who are amongst the most prominent
of the younger generation of U.S. theatrical mag-
nates, have combined with Arthur Hopkins, one of
the foremost stage-producers of the moment, and
with the support of Margaret Mayo and Roi Cooper
Megrue, the authors of a big batch of recent dramatic
successes, have formed a new movie venture under Sam
Goldfish, the brains of the Famous Player-Lasky Co.
The new combination flickers forth as the Goldwyn
Pictures C'o., and has already produced several dis-
tinctive films. The co.’s stars include Maxine
Elliott, Jane Cowl, Madge Kennedy and Mary Garden,
all of whom have scored successes on the stage and
have been attracted by the big money in films.
Mae Marsh and Mabel Normond, who have already
done good work for the camera, have also joined
up with Goldfish.
“refer” ; The Billjim warriors in the new
war-films are not to have the glory all to
themselves. Senator Alillen wants a bit of it.
“The Minister of Repatriation (Senator
Millen) presents ‘Sons of the Empire,”’
says many a newspaper, and the other day
lie had the nerve to print a letter from
the G.-G. “congratulating” him on his great
work, though all Millen’s “work” in the
matter was to rubber-stamp an invitation
for the Official Deadhead. You are never
allowed to forget the tremendous importance
of POLITICIANS as compared with mere
soldiers even when a war is on !
“M.P.A.”: “Penden,” who states (B.
27/9/T7) that G. K. Ireland held a mort-
gage on the part of King Claudius in “Ham-
let.” writes with knowledge. Ireland was
the recognised stock king of the Brooke, Sul-
livan and Creswiek periods. He joined
Brooke in 1859 (when Brooke became sole
lessee and manager of Melbourne Royal),
and made his first appearance as Eglamour
in “The Two Gentlemen of Verona.” Ireland
was a great favorite with Brooke, with
whom he toured. Now that daughter Ilarrie
is able to move about after her long illness
she invariably uses a walking-stick which
G. V. Brooke presented to her late father.
“S.S.”: I was shocked to see the other
day that some vandal had written in red
lead under the usual inscription on the
gravestone of an old-school pro. in Melbourne
Cemetery the words, “A Finished Actor.”
(Continued on page BJ/.)


mm
I i
'•o
m
m
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of purity of a freshly-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
your own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dapt. 52, 178 Castlere ijjh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly*
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, » n '
under the management of Eos
Usher, the Comforts of a I’erfec
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare fasor-
ably with any Hotel in E n £^ in ’
America or the Continent. *‘ l
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“H. 0.” : There is justification for the mas-
culine opinion that the downtrodden sex
which buttons up at the back mostly has the
better end of the legal stick, notwithstanding
squeals to the contrary by barrackers for
women’s “rights.” A case in point is that
of the Richmond woman, Stephenson, whose
second husband was awarded a year’s gaol in
Melbourne for cruelty to his step-son. The
youngster, age was bound, half naked, to
AN ARTISTIC OBJECTION.
MOLL: “Why, does Billy quarrel with her? I
hear she’s a model in the house.”
POLL: “Yes, but he objects to her being a
model in the studios.”
a chair and gagged by its step-father, in the
presence of its kind and devoted ma, and
left, trussed and half-stifled, while the two
went to a picture-show. It was stated in
evidence that this was not the first time the
child had been ill-treated, and that part of
the equipment used w°s a pair of underpants,
one leg of which was drawn over the infant’s
head, while inside the leg had been sewn,
presumably by a woman, a handkerchief,
which was used as a gag. Partly because
the child’s father had been killed at the
Fron% public clamor demanded the woman s
arrest. The Attorney-General looked into
the matter and announced that the legal pre-
sumption that baby’s kind mamma had acted
under the coercion of her husband would be
a bar to proceedings against her. He men-
tioned that even were it proved that she
had assisted in binding and gagging the
child, the mother would still be protected
under the presumption of law that she had
acted under the influence of her husband.
So the inhumanity of one “man-made law”
towards lovely woman results in a male
offender being given a maximum sentence,
while his female accomplice gets nothing
more drastic than a military pension of
fifteen bob a week.
There is cheery reading in the letters re-
ceived by Edith Onians, of Melbourne News-
boys’ Society, from her 400 old boys now
handing special editions to the Hun. “W e
don’t want any cold-
footed coot to take pity
on us," remarks one who
was at the Landing, Lone
Pine and the Evacuation,
and has been five times
wounded. Another lad, on
his back in hospital,
writes: “There was only
the width of a sandbag
between me and 2000
rounds of ammunition
which went off at once.
All I got was a piece of
lead in my heel, a bit
taken off my hip and my
good ear finished. This is
the second ammunition
dump I have tried to
argue the point with.”
And from a third young-
ster : “I’ve chummed up
with an earl! He’s given
my chum and me his ad-
dress in Grosvenor
Square, and told us to
look him up.... There’s
no shame in being a newsboy ; in fact, it did
me the greatest turn in the world” —though
evidently young Billjim hasn’t yet learned
quite all the possible great turns in the
world.
* * * *
The railway from Port Augusta (S.A.) to
Ivalgoorlie (W.A.) is getting itself formally
opened in November. Authorised by the
Federal Parliament in December, 1911, the
first sod was “turned” by G.-G. Denman in
September, 1912. Actual work was begun
in April, 1913. The distance is 1052 miles,
four-fifths of it through country practically
uninhabited, so that all supplies for the
workers had to be carried from the ends. Of
the rails—nearly 150,000 tons—half are Aus-
tralian-made. The sleepers, over millions,
are all Westralian. The cost is over the five
millions originally guessed at, though at the
time of starting work it was thought possi-
ble to get through for four. There is one
stretch of 330 miles on the Nullarbor plain
without a curve —said to be the world’s big-
gest straight railway run. Hitherto the line
from Nyngan to Bourke had Australia’s (and
probably the world’s) record in this respect.
Dining and sleeping cars will run, and the
time is to be about 35 hours.
* * * *
You will now be able to travel by rail
from Rockhampton, in middle Queens-
land, to Fremantle, in Westralia, about
3750 miles. But your luggage will get
a bit of bumping on the way. From
“Rockie” to Wallangarra the gauge is
the narrow, or three-foot-six. At Wallan-
garra you climb on to the N. S. Wales 4ft.
and back in and out of Sydney on the
way to Albury, where, rushing to defend
your country, you bundle into the Victorian
sft. . Sin. That gauge takes you through
Adelaide on to Terowie, where you have a
meat-pie (everybody seems to have a meat-
pie at Terowie), and climb on to another
narrow-gauge train. Still running to defend
your country you speed along, as fast as a
3ft. 6in. gauge will let you, to Port Augusta,
where the new East-and-West line starts,
and take another turn on the 4ft. Bfin.
gauge to Kalgoorlie, where you wearily climb
across to another 3ft. Gin. line, and there’s
Fremantle right ahead of you— after -five
changes! That is the sort of mess Australia
has made of its railway system.
* * * *
“Ivaree” : I see that when the newspapers
(and I include the Commonwealth
Gazette, which should know better) men-
tion French honors bestowed on Billjim,
they persist in putting the Legion d’Honneur
first, the Croix de Guerre second, and the
Mgdaille Militaire last. It should be the
other way round. The Medaille Militaire
is the French equivalent of the V.C. or the
Russian Cross of Bt. George, and is as hard
to get. The Legion of Honor is an order
of knighthood which may be granted to pri-
vates and officers for heroism in the field,
and to officers for 30 years’ service, and to
civilians who have achieved prominence 1
Arts, Science, Commerce, etc. lhe Croix oe
Guerre plain, and with bronze star or palm,
is granted for bravery in war and special
services. It is equivalent to our D.C.i •>
D.S.O. or M.M.
* * *
A strategist named W. E. Wood is meta-
phorically spreading his fingers fanwise at
the Victorian Government and Parliament
and State; in fact, at the whole Common-
wealth. Mr. Wood has no particular quar-
rel with these parties; his trouble is merely
that he declines to support his wife. Over
a year ago the Law sent him to gaol for
THE CALENDAR.
SHE: “Your baby isn’t two months' old yet,
is he?”
H E: “Oh, yes. To be exact, I’ve been awake
sixty-seven nights."
failing to hand over 10s. a week as ordered,
and the other day, the arrears having
mounted up to £27 10s., the Law again
asked him what he was going to do about
it. He said he didn’t know, and didn’t
care. Whereupon the Law sent him to gaol
until he pays. Presumably he won’t
find the £27 10s. in gaol, and therefore may
not get out for some time; but apparently
he doesn’t want to get out. He is having
a nice, restful time; his meals are cooked
for him and served regularly; his clothing is
provided, washed and mended for him, and
he gets sufficient sleep and moderate exer-
cise. He is not troubled about his rates
or taxes, the cost of living, the possibility
of unemployment, the chances of the war
or anything of that sort. All these troubles
are being faced by the people who support
him. Probably the man isn’t quite sane;
but his seems a well-balanced intellect along-
side the public’s. Having found an insur-
rectionary youngster this public says he shall
stay home from school and spend the time
in the pantry. It may be reform; but
it looks more like offering a premium for
insurrection.
QUESTION OF TIME.
“My dear, George's nerves are in a frightful
state since'he came hack from France—
I'm quite troubled about him !"
“ Don't worry—he'll soon get right again."
“Yes, but will he get right before my dress-
maker sends in her bill?"
It takes a bit to stop some people fr olr
having their own quarrels. In the midst of
a world war, a great strike and the arrival
of a new sub-excellency, and in the presence
of such circumstances as the Russian revo-
lution, the German mutiny, the fixation of
prices and the struggle of W. M. Hughes
to get the British Government to win the
war by buying the Metal Ring’s copper
Frederick Silk, an elderly farmer, of Bavs-
water (Vic.), disagreed with his elderly wife
over a matter of a “ducky” hen, and empha-
sised his remarks with a revolver, two bul-
lets going into the lady and one into him-
self. The widow Silk is now’ in hospital in
a bad way. The farmer didn’t like fowls
but his w'ife persisted in keeping them. Bh<l
“set” a hen ; he removed it. Every time lie
shooed it away she put it back again. A
bullet in the chook would have ended' the
argument. But Silk w r as a just man; he
realised the hen wasn’t to blame. Incident-
ally, he w’as 74 —which show’s a worm can
be a long while turning.
“Silas Snell” finds a drill-sergeant:—
I saw him first on a seat among the greenery just
over Princes Bridge. He was in khaki, and he sat
with one leg projecting across the track, so that a
careless pedestrian of some substance walked up it
and on it a good deal before recovering self-control.
Then he was profuse in his apologies. “Tha’s all
ri,” said Billy Khaki amiably. “She don’ mind, ’n’
I don’t.” He had perhaps just a trickle more aboard
than was good for the Wearer of an artificial leg.
When hp tried to walk the limb knuckled out side-
ways, and William sat down. He charmingly de-
clined all offers of assistance. “No,” said he, “gotter
break her in.” He endeavored to rise, and the leg
buckled five ways in rapid succession. “It don’t do
to let ’em have their own way,” said Billy pleasantly.
“A man’s gotter be master of his own leg.” He
looked down at his limb, then lifted it up and shook
it. It responded much as a folding foot-rule would
behave if similarly treated. “There,” said Billy.
“What’d I tell yeh? D’yeh know what that is?
That's sense iv humor. It’s a joke on me.” He
shook the leg again, and it fell into place. “Now
watch,” he said. Billy, who had now got a large
audience, did four paces, swinging his automatic
into position. The leg behaved like a knotted rope.
“Got to be patient with ’em,” he said. “Patient
but firm. Come up!” He tried another step, and
ON HER DEFENCE.
H UBBY: “And now, if you please, you arc
actually telling people that you married
me for my money!"
WIFEY: “Well, I had to give them some
excuse."
the limb jutted its knee-joint backwards, and Billy
went down in a sitting position. Several people
moved to his assistance. “No,” said he, “not on
your life! This is my job. No damn leg’s goin’ to
run me.” He pushed the thing into working shape,
and clinging to the calf with both hands regained
his footing. “This is one of her bgd days,’ said
Billy. “Some days we get along splendid. You’d
never know we wasn’t brought up together," Then
he made another dash. This time his patent
appurtenance tripped him up; he made three hops
and fell over the seat. Settling down on the grass
he said : “I’ll let her sleep it off. She’ll be all right
when she’s sober!” Then Billy Khaki fell asleep.
M * ’ *
“Captain Kidd,” in a brotherly spirit:
The story of the German raider See Adler in the
Pacific should not induce me to arise and sing “Rule
Britannia” more than the usual number of times per
day. This ratty old ex-Yankee ship, the Pass of
Beihama, was being taken to an English port as a
prize when a German submarine snatched her away
and guided her into Bremen. There she was fitted
out for adventure, disguised as a Scandinavian lumber
vessel, got past the patrols, and away she went to
the South Atlantic, where she sent to Davy Jones
over £2,000,000 worth of shipping. Then she
vanished. The British authorities little suspected
that she had doubled Cape Horn and was messing
about the Pacific. It wasn’t until she stranded on
the Society Islands that her game was lip. A grave
and solemn Court was about to find that the W ainina,
a big U.S.S. Co. cargo boat, had been sunk by bomb-
explosion in the cargo, when word came that she
was a victim of the See Adler. As one of the old
skull-and-eross-boners I’m bound to say, in between
rums, that the Hun pirates who left Bremen in a
nine-knot tramp and brought up on the lonely iskt
of Mohepa, in the South Pacific, taking her fill o n
the way and successfully eluding capture, can sign
on with me any time.
A SEASONABLE BALLADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gay mosquito flaps his wings
And on his muted trombone plays,
While from its lap the north wind flings
The dust of long-dead summer days;
The weather shows its wilful ways
By mixing rain with fitful sun
And oft’ring ice on heated trays—
The Spring offensive has begun !
The girls are wearing flimsy things;
Out-moded now the furry fays;
Scorn mocks the frugal soul who clings
To rabbit-skihs. No damsel pays
The homage dear of Envy’s gaze
To cossack-booted sisters. Done
The kid-from-knee-to-ankle craze—
The Spring offensive has begun!
Now to his task the punter brings
The faith that Reason never slays.
To one Jew’s-harp with divers strings
MacShortodds trills his simple “lays.”
Though in his breast all hope decays,
The bettor buys his costly fun—
lire’s Jills are kept by all such jays.
The Spring offensive has begun!
L’Exvoi.
Pardon, O Prince, these feeble brays ;
With such are poets’ stipends won,
And so once more this chant I raise:
The Spring offensive has begun !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


LADIES'
COURT
SHOES
42/- the pair
Your size sent on approval, on
receipt of remittance, which will
he refunded if the shoes are
returned as unsuitable for your
requirements.
When writing please state size
and give full address.
The illustration shows a neat, all-enamel Kid
Black Court Shoe, with Cuban heels, pump
soles, and black-and-white buckle.
Price 42/- pair.
Posted free to any address.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
HEANS
TONIC
©
M
c IST E F>
Are the RELIABLE HOME REMEDY for
Headaches, Backache,
Insomnia, Anaemia,
Neuralgia, Brain Fag,
Lassitude, Breakdown,
and such-like ailments.
When you suffer from any of these neuras-
thenic conditions do not make the mistake of
taking drugs or stimulants.
What you need is something to purify and enrich the blood and nourish the nerves.
For this purpose you cannot get anything better than
Heart’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
Obtainable from reliable chemists and stores. Prices: Small Size, containing 6 days’
treatment, 2s. Large Size, containing 12 days’ supply, :55.; or six boxes for 17s. 3d.
If not stocked in your locality send direct to G. W. HEAN, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
“De Facto” : A woman in my Melbourne
suburbs earns an honest penny by going out
as a “minder.” If any suburbanite of the
female sex wants to go shopping or to the
pictures without “the kids” the minder will
take charge, look after the house, feed the
fowls or the old man, and do any other
necessary odd job for a moderate fee.
* * * *
The spirit of prophecy was at work in the
old literary firm of Erckmann-Ohatrian when
it produced “Brigadier Frederic,” shortly
after the Franco-Prussian War of 1870.
Erckmann and Chatrian were the mildest of
Alsatian Frenchmen until their native province
was torn from France by the first William
of Germany. Then they not only remained
Frenchmen but started to write bitterly of
the enemy, not forgetting to blame their own
fallen emperor, Napoleon 111., for playing
into Bismarck’s hands. The last lines of their
"Brigadier Frederic” might have been writ-
ten four years ago instead of 40:—
As for the Germans, because Bismarck has suc-
ceeded in his undertakings they look upon him as
little short of a god. They fail to perceive the evil
means used by that man: his cunning, his falsehood,
the corruption, violence and espionage of which he
has made such abundant use. That which is built
upon such a foundation cannot stand firm.
But there is little use in expostulation with the
Germans. They are intoxicated with their victories,
and will never awake until Europe, wearied with
EASING THE LADY'S MIND.
MISTRESS (engaging housemaid): “I expect
you to be very reticent, you know.”
Maid ; “Oh, yes. madam, I won't tell.”
GUARDING. THE TREASURE.
HIS REVERENCE (to Bill, lugging home intoxicated cobber): “Ah, I am glad to see you
taking such care of your poor misguided friend.”
B ILL: “I have to — it's the only bottle we've got between us.”
their ambition and .their insolence, shall rise to
bring them to their senses; then will they be forced
to acknowledge, as we ourselves have done, “If might
does sometimes prevail over right, still justice is
eternal.”
None of the ghostly watchers of the present
war are more interested than Erckmann and
Chatrian, the two patriotic Frenchmen of
Lorraine who are most generally known by
their dramatised works of “L’Ami Fritz”
and “Le Juif Polonais.” The latter was
Anglicized as “The Bells,” and Mascagni
put the former to Italian opera uses.
* * * *
“Jeff” : The man in the street has simply
no idea of the progress that has been made
with the weight-carrying aeroplane. The
Ilandley-Page giant ’plane is a veritable
ship. One of them, fitted with the new 16-
cylinder 475-h.p. Coatalen engines (made at
the Sunbeam works), recently carried 27
people for eight hours over England and
Wales at an average speed of 98 miles an
hour. At times it exceeded 150 miles. Later
on the same ’plane flew from somewhere in
England to Rome in five hours with a party
of British officers accompanied by orderlies
and secretaries. After an ovation in Rome
it made no bones about flying back again.
“Marinoa” : Major Lean, officer in charge
of Base Records, Melbourne, has been given
a high position on the Repatriation Board.
This officer, though fit and of fighting age,
was prevented from going to the Front by
the Minister for Defence, on the ground
that he was indispensable here. The fact
that he has been lent to the repatriation
authorities seems to indicate that Senator
Pearce was speaking through his hat when
he claimed that Major Lean was the only
officer available who could carry on at Base
Records ; so the question is being asked once
more why the officer (who is a permanent
soldier) is not allowed to go to the war. It
was put to Senator Millen last week by the
officials of the Returned Soldiers’ Associa-
tion, who suggested that the proper place
for a fit major just now is in France, and
that the work of dealing with returned men
would more sympathetically be performed
by officers who had gained an understanding
of the Australian character on the fields of-
battle. The reply given by the new Minis-
ter for Repatriation was that it was essen-
tial that he should have on his staff an
officer acquainted with the records of the men
applying for assistance. The absurdity of the
excuse must have been apparent to Millen,
who knows quite well that Lean has as little
personal knowledge of the records kept by
his enormous stall’ as Percy Bruntnell has.
In all this no reflection whatever is cast
upon the personal grit of the officer men-
tioned, nor upon the excellent manner in
which his base job has been done. He has
always been ready and anxious to go to the
war; but permanent soldiers must obey
orders to do no soldiering, even when those
orders are issued by win-the-war politicians.
* * * *
Very early in the war some South Aus.
towns adopted the excellent practice of
planting a tree in front of any house from
which a soldier-boy had gone to the war.
It gave the street a mottled appearance;
but that was the intention. In Yic. the
Minister of Mines and Forests
has fathered a “Soldier Trees”
Assoc, which has something of
the same idea behind it, but
doesn’t want the raggedness. The
idea is to get municipal councils
all over the State to employ sol-
diers in planting avenues of
memorial trees, each with the
name of a dead or disabled sol-
dier on its label. But why
shouldn’t the live and non-disabled
soldiers also be represented by
timber? Australia wants all the
carefully-planted avenues it can
have, and all the re-
minders it can get of the
boys who did their duty.
Perhaps when the young
slacker of nowadays has
grown elderly, fat and
dyspeptic, and the sense
of his youthful con-
temptibleness oppresses
his weary soul, he may
even walk out into the
darkness of a cold, win-
try night and hang him-
self from a suitable branch. It is just as
well to provide the means, at any rate.
* * * *
“Good Australian” from the Pacific Slope :
Greater San Francisco contains as many inhabi-
tants as Greater Melbourne; but in spending power
and' in earning capacity there is no comparison
between the two. Money seems to so easily
and quickly made in America that thrift is
not preached as an urgent virtue. Salaries and wages,
are higher; lawyers’ costs, doctors’ fees, account-
ants’ charges and all professional services are much
better paid. House rents and rents of flats and
apartments ' are twice and thrice as high. Clothes
are more expensive, and on the whole not of sufth
good wearing' quality. Food is much about the same
price, though meat and bread are not nearly so good.
Fruit is plentiful but not cheap, and as to flavor—
well, that is partly destroyed by irrigation and forc-
ing. Beer is no better, spirits are inferior, and wine
is about the same as ours. Tram and train fares are
higher. Telephone charges are five times greater than
in the Commonwealth, as also are telegraph tariffs,
because all such systems are owned by private cor-
porations. Water is costly, especially in San Fran-
cisco, the supply being operated by a private co.
Electric light and gas are more expensive. Hotels,
cafes, offices and public buildings are much more
luxurious than with us, but they all cost more.
Here is one illustration of money spent on pleasure.
One Saturday night the two dancing floors set in the
midst of dining-saloons at the Palace Hotel were
crowded. The manager told me that between 7 p.m.
and 1 a.m. 2500 people had entered the rooms, and the
average expenditure would reach nearly £1 a head ! Re-
member this occurred in a city only the same size
as Melbourne, and supporting at least a dozen other
large cafe-restaurants. Every night save Sunday
through the year dancing is carried on. Evening
dress is a rarity. People come in off the street, have
a glass of beer or a cocktail, dance and go out. One
good result is that San Francisco owns at least one
hundred excellent orchestras.
All of which is not written in disparagement of our
country or ourselves. Ours is a pure-bred race, while
52 per cent, of the people of ’Frisco are foreigners or
of alien descent, who have taken their fiddles and
their love of music and dancing with them.
♦ * » *
“Y.Z.” : This war promises to result in the
rehabilitation of Rum; and we may yet hear
of “the real Mackay” again, to the great
profit of the Queensland sugar-grower. A
mate of mine at the Front (in past times
he rode on the waggon) writes: “I have
formed a great friendship for rum. Most
of us have. Not the boozer’s blind devotion,
but a fond, foolish, sentimental sort of affec-
tion. And no wonder! Rum is the kindliest
influence here, the great soother and con-
soler, the most bounteous buck-up. A swig
of rum at the right moment has been as good
as liberal reinforcements. There’s the sort
of feeling in this crowd now that if we
heard Brother Worrall abusing rum we
would want to deal with him as if he had
traduced a dear sister.”
* * * *
“Chevron”: The Light Horse in Egypt
are to decide what form the war memorial
to their fallen comrades, for which officers
and men have subscribed £5OOO, shall take.
The matter was recently the subject of a
pitch in London between Brig.-General J.
R. Royston, the plucky S’African who dis-
tinguished himself as a leader of Billjims-on-
horseback at Sinai; High-Commissioner
Andy Fisher, sculptor Bertram Mackennal,
and Captain R. M. Collins. The site fav-
ored is the bank of the Suez Canal. An
HER LIMIT.
“And are you fond of all animals?”
“Oh, no! There are some sorts of men that
I don't care for a little bit.”
equestrian statue was rejected as too stereo-
typed an idea, and it was recommended that
an eminent sculptor be commissioned to pre-
pare a design for the approval of a com-
mittee of the subscribers. The cash of
other units of the A.I.F. or of civilians will
not be refused.
RAIN MAKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In closing the investigation the committee places
on record the fact that no information whatever has
been submitted for the consideration of the members
which justifies the claim that any advance has been
made in Australia in the direction of causing, or
increasing, rainfall.” —Parliament report.
Across the skies the long clouds sail and drift,
The hot sun draws a vapor from the sea,
The rain comes as a happy, careless gift
From a wide hand whose largesses are free.
The thunder echoes and the lightnings fly
\nd the green plenty dribbles from the sky.
Vet when the brazen ceiling of the world.
Heated by billows of the scorching wind,
Burns over dead leaves withered, brown and curled
No sort of incantation can we find
Amid the dreadful fields of our regret
To bring one heavenly tear of happy wet.
Sadly the husbandman resorts to prayer.
Some eager bishop calls his god to drown
The choking dust and sift through all the air
A little of the pleasant moisture down,
That man and beast may both give thanks and sing
For the lush bounty of a late, warm Spring.
The trouser-knees of faith are worn away
Before the bursting of the pleasant shower.
Bring us Balsillie’s music. Let him play
The luring chords of scientific power.
Vlas! The skies are brazen as before;
The tanks rust dry beside the kitchen door.
The cash is spent. Balsillie’s song is dumb.
Across the skies the mocking cloud-wraiths drift
No tickled skies to damp fruition come ;
Nothing the dryness of th.. world can shift.
In fact, there’s nothing left for us at all
Except to store the rain when it may fall.
That kind, green rain comes in its careless way
Chanting o’er hill and plain a verdant psalm.
Mix perspiration with old Nature’s play
And dig the reservoir and build the dam.
Pray with a spade. Make incantation due
With labor and the rain will pull us through.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


*4w \La.'nT\ REINFORCEMENTS |
CAN SEND THEM THROUGH
youß CHEQUE BOOK.
AND PLEASE NOTE-WAR LOAN APPLICATIONS CLOSE ON NOVEMBER 2.


0U , ' a fair thing to use your'Art
the med,um of expressing your personal dislike ? ”
Artist. “Sir. you mis-
take me Your remark
| arises from lack of
imagination and .defi-
cient sense of propor-
Let us consider
Here we have a Certain Person
As his political admirer .you no
doubt prefer him depicted with
so—
True, we present
him thus
But have we ever served
him like this?
Or this?
Or even this?
Were we not filled with
the Milk of Human Kind-
ness it would be
possible to yent
our spleen in
this manner.
But being a GENTLEMAN,
sir, with a deep regard
for the feelings of
others, we do NOT,
sir,. NO, sir
THE CONSIDERATE CARICATURIST.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic "Works, Leicester.
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE. NURSE FRANCES, V.A.D., writes of Clements Tonic.
The proprietors of one of the leading weekly newspapers, Wellington, N.Z., whose letter can be seen if necessary, writes:
“Nurse Frances has just returned from the firing-line in France and used your Clements Tonic there. I'm sure her
testimony is of very great public value.” Nurse Frances herself writes; “1 should like to tell you how very
pleased 1 am with your Tonic as a nerve restorer. I have used it with very beneficial results. Several of our
nurses in France have also proved its worth. 1 can highly recommend it to any one suffering from brain-fag.”
(Signed) (c//uW) f.
Get Clements Tonic and get good health at the same time. It is invaluable for Anemia, Nerve Breakdown and Loss of Sleep.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. It does good because it is good.
Clements Tonic i.td., Rozelle, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELAGHRINO
GIGARETTES
Lieut. B. J. Stubbs, member for Subiaeo,
who was killed in France on September 26.
is the first Groperland legislator to fall in
the Big Scrap. He was a Victorian by
birth and a tailor by trade, and had held the
Snbiaco seat for Labor since 1911.
W. D. Bingle, who succeeds Colonel Miller
as secretary of the Federal Works and Rail-
ways Department, was a Newcastle (N.S.W.)
boy; his father had a large shipping busi-
ness there. Long ago the new departmental
secretary was private sec. to Bill Lyne.
The late John Norton, by the way, was the
old rogue-elephant’s first private sec.
The Sultan of Egypt, who has just died,
was a student and dreamer whose only fads
prior to climbing the Khedive’s ricketty
throne were agronomy and the uplifting of
the Gyppo fellaheen. He spent a huge for-
tune in scientific research and in bettering the
lot of the under-dog of Baksheesh-land, for
which lie earned the animal’s love and the cor-
dial dislike of his kinsman, the former Khe-
dive. Hussein was practically made to take
up the Sultanate, but he continued lavishing
money and reforms and compulsory soap on
his unworthy subjects, and found time to
start and keep going numerous Red Crescent
staff’s, trains and hospitals for wounded
Billjim. Amongst other practical proofs of
goodwill to that warrior he lent him several
of his palaces as hospitals. His son-in-law,
Prince Fuad, succeeds him in the chair. He’s
no snob either, and rides like an Australian.
Gordon Ronald McLaurin, who recently
had a funeral, was son of a Scot who came
to Australia in the late thirties of the 19th
century. In the mid-’fifties dad bought
Yarrayarra station, at Germanton, known
now as Holbrook, where Gordon was born in
1862. Being a good sort, though lie was
a large landlord, the son got Lyne's seat in
the Assembly when that old warrior went
to the Reps., and he remained in politics for
a dozen years.
Alexander Sanderson Robertson, who died
at Malvern ( \ ic.). lately, was the contractor
who built the first railway in Australia —
the line from Melbourne to Sandridge (now
“the Port”),
run by the Hob-
son's Bay Rail-
way Co., and
opened in Sep-
tember. 1854.
Sanderson, who
had come to
Australia from
Scotland as a
youth of 20,
three years
earl i e r. had
William Porter
as his senior
partner; and the
pair also built
about the same
time the rail-
way pier at
Port Melbourne,
still in use. In
the ’seventies,
Sanderson went
to the Cold
Country to live,
hut he was hack
again in 1881.
Eighty-six was
the score.
FLEMING,
M.H.R., for
Robertson,
( N.S.W. ), one
of the minor
poets of the
House.
John Britty North, who died recently,
aged 86, had been for 45 years a member
of the Sydney Stock Exchange. In the
first ’fifties he was a partner in a produce
firm in Sussex-street; later he was auction-
eering in George-street, on the corner of
Hutchinson-street, now Bond-street: later
still he owned a coal-mine at Ivatoomba. and
that started his connection with the Stock
Exchange.
It has come. A boy was christened Bill-
jim at Port Melbourne the other day.
Captain Robert Sefton Adams, who fell in
Flanders last week, was a grandson of the
late Sefton Moorhouse, who one time had the
large job of being “Superintendent of Maori-
land.” He it was who designed and named
the Moorhouse tunnel, between Lyttelton and
Christchurch. Captain Adams passed well at
Cambridge, adopted law, married an English
wife, and got his commission in the Artil-
lery. His father, Dr. Adams, of Wellington
(M.L.), originated in Victoria, and spent
his youth in the green Western district.
SHE’D SEEN SOME XEXV STYLES
SINCE THEN.
HUSBAND: “ You used to say we were made
for one another!”
WIFE: "Oh, well, I wish to goodness I could
send you hack now for alterations.”
Mrs. John Higgins, who died at Malvern
lately, at 93. was the relict of an Irish
Methodist minister. Her three sons are
Henry, president of the Federal Arbitration
Court; engineer George, who was chiefly
responsible for the extraordinary Elwood
Canal; and John, a Melbourne accountant
with a well-gilded connection. Mrs. Vance
Palmer, the writing wife of a writing man,
is a grand-daughter. A grandson, Mervyn.
was killed in France, but the old lady was
never told of it.
Killed in France. Lieut. Laurie Brownell,
second son of the late W. P. Brownell, who
represented Franklin (Tas.) in the Assembly.
Two other sons are in the field, and both
have gained distinction. Major (Dr.) 11. I’,
having the D.S.O. and Sergeant R. J. the
M.M.
Adela Pankhurst-Walsh, who is spending
her honeymoon in Pentridge gaol, hoped to
be treated as a first-class misdemeanant.
This means that she will have a special cell,
be allowed to order and pay for her own
food, wear her own clothes, and have her
own bedding. Her friends will have reason-
able access to her. and she will have as
many books and as much writing material
as she wants. Her new Walsh can come in
to see her, but she can’t get out to see him.
There are hundreds of husbands who would
regard such an arrangement as delightful,
the beasts.
About the hottest thing on the East-West
railway job is a gang of five of whom three
ai-e Cook. Grill and Frizzell. The next
warmest proposition is a near-by gang
containing Fry and Boyle.
Maoriland makes proud mention in' Parlia-
ment and out of it of the English offer to
Dr. Truby King to go and start a babv-
saving crusade in London. The idea is to
run a Plunket Society, and the invaluable
M.L. specialist is asked to steer the Marl-
borouah School of Mothercraft. Whether he
will do so is still an open question; much
depends on the M.L. Health Minister. The
little doctor does not seek for shekels in the
exchange ; he merely wants the Government
to be reimbursed his salary during his 18
months’ absence, the money to be used to
pay a locum at Seacliff Hospital.
Captain J. V . Pearce was killed last month.
A Ballarat mine-manager, he went to Gal-
lipoli with one star, and on the way, being-
skilled in machinery, led an auxiliary party
of stokers to the stokehold of the torpedoed
Southland to shake a few knots out of the
stricken ship and get her beached at Mudros.
lor this he was mentioned in orders. . In
France he received a third wound, a cap-
taincy and the Military Cross at Pozieres,
where he guided troops under heavy fire,
and, although badly wounded, stuck ’to his
post until next day. He was a son of old
Councillor Isaiah Pearce, of Ballarat East,
and was 31 when his shift ended.
John Rowland Tillett, who died the other
day as the result of being gassed on the
Western Front, was a son of J. V. Tillett
Ma’s Crown Solicitor. Young Tillett who
was not quite 24. took his medical degree
with honors at Sydney Uni. last year
after a few months at Toowoomba ’( n )
Hospital w r ent to the Front in January ns
surgeon of an Artillery brigade.
Vic. Labor-leader George Elmslie, M.L A
for Albert Park, is to be opposed next month
by a South Melbourne busy-bee named
Baragwanath, who thinks the writing on the
wall, in view' of the figures at the last
Federal elections, reads: “John Baragwan-
nth, M.L.A.” The party is an estate-agent
a local municipal councillor, a member of the
Board of Health and a considerable talker
Still, there are plenty of people at Albert
Park who like Elmslie for himself alone.
Previously an attempt had been made to get
Robert Cuthbertson, Melbourne’s most pro-
digious milkman, to have a go for the seat
but Robert looked at the sky, thought deeply
for two minutes, and then let Baragwanath
have the nomination.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The youngest
major at the Front?_ I don't know, but
among my grandsons is a major who is not
yet 23. His younger brother, a lieut., has a'
D.C.M. Their father was a Bathurst man.
Howard Elliott, the rev. national lecturer
of the Protestant Political Ass. of Maori*
land, has at last attacked the wrong party.
He brought wholesale sectarian accusations
against the Postal Department, and the
P.M.G. merely replied with a Royal Commis-
sion. being fat and out of training. But
Gunner Charles Clements happened to be
in good form through wrestling with the
Hun, and he replied with a whip. Elliott
is alleged to have cast aspersions on
Clements’s sister, a nun who Was drowned
some time ago at Taumarunui.
Last month’s casualties included Raymond
Scott Evatt. who attained the Military Cross,
his 21st birthday, his lieutenancy and his
dbath-wound all in one year. A son of Mrs.
J. Evatt, of North Sydney, lie enlisted as
private, and won promotion in Gallipoli,
lie was a Fort-street school boy, a member
of the chemists’ staff of the a noted
swimmer and footballer, and swung a vigor-
ous racquet at tennis. His brother is with
the artillery. Ray, who had been several
times wounded, won the Cross for leading
his men under heavy tire to the capture of
a strong Hun point.
“Whistling Dick” Abbott, Bendigo’s new
Mayor, is a burly native, with manners little
sandpapered by a term in the Vic. House of
Fossils, where he proved such a pest to the
Government that it put forth squatter Frank
Clarke, the Baronet’s brother, to bump him
out. Bumped accordingly. Abbott was amongst
the handful of agitators who opposed I ha-
son's mines’ amalgamation scheme, but fell
in with the proposals when opposition proved
futile.
HUE'LL GET THE CASH.
MIMI: "Igo to Australia after ze tear. I
know already six soldiers that I rill
draw part of their earnings."
BILL: "Oh, I say, that’s ’ot!”
MIMI : "No, zey are married, an' rill intro-
duce me to their wives; then l shall
start the milliner's shop."
SONG OF THE PADRES
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My mother 'eld by Greenfield’s faith—my father ’eld
it, too—-
An’ I bred close to my mother's side, as a decent
bloke should do ;
An’ Baptist, Greek or Methodist, wowser or Pharisee,
Scotty or Saint or Plymouth Rock, they was always
one to me;
I ’ave loved the smell of trees an’ grass, the river
slidin’ by,
The chatterin’ birds among the leaves, the streaky
sunset sky,
The shine of seas beneath the moon, the tracks of
’ill an’ wood,
An’ all of Nature’s ’andiworks I’ve sought an’ found
’em good.
I’ve took ro stock in ’ymns or sects, Bibles or
bickerin’,
For I never leaned to the nosey side, an’ I done no
buttin’-in ;
I've riddled the Ten Commandments 1 through, I’ve
reckoned life a joke,
Yet I think ’E’ll see it the same as me, looking out
for the decent bloke.
But what a straight-out ’ead like me can never
figure out,
Is what these ‘ot prayer-merchants ’ere are raisin’
Cain about.
They’re workin’ by the text-book, an’ the text-book's
just the same,
No matter what’s their creed or lurk or Bible-
punchin’ name.
It’s got me rattled there an’ back, for it’s most
exceedin’ odd,
An’ I ’ate to think ’ow the ’ole thing looks to a
God like the swaddies’ God !
Oh, our sportin’, fightin’ padres, fledged from Oxford,
’ere or Rome —-
1 can ’ea'r them goin’ crook about the padres back
at 'ome!
They’ve chewed the bully-cud with us, they’ve bore
the battle's brunt
With Tom an’ Dick an’ ’Arry, ’ave our padres at
the front.
Oh, they wear no linen overcoat with lily dooks to
match,
But you’ll know ’em by their ’earty grin an’ little
shoulder-patch.
They will kid you, p’raps, an’ chiack, but they never
rub it in
About the brimstone waitin’ for a bloke in molt :1
sin.
They'll sing you ’ymns an’ comic songs, an’ now an’
then will shove
A fist wMI ’id (an’ just as well!) inside a boxin’
glove,
For a swad. don’t 'old with prayin’, but I’ve stacked
against a few
That would swing a ’ealthy knuckle for the padres
that we knoo.
They ’ave been with us through mud an’ dust an’
trench an’ trampled wire,
When the ground was spittin’ earthquakes an’ the
sky was beltin’ fire ;
They ’ave listened to our tales of ’ome an’ tarts an’
wounds an’ grief;
They ’ave dined on ration-rabbit, while we scoffed
their ration-beef;
They ’ave rigged impromptoo concerts, where they
knocked the flamin’ soul
From a grand pianner eollared from some German
bunny-’ole :
The_y never flashed the frozen stare, or gave the icy
dook—■
They was cobber to the colonel an' the regimental
coqk.
They was thoroughbreds, though sometimes short of
brush or currycomb—
But I’ll bet their ears are burnin’ for the padres
back at ’ome!
I’ve come from the West to my father’s ’ouse, an’ I
find the landscape thick
With, “You’re the son of a Calathump.!” an’
“You’re a bloomin’ Mick!”
I ’ave struck the row that never dies, the yap that
will not cease.
Which is ’ard, an’ a little more than ’aid, on the
breo-’i n’ Dove of Peace.
I’m safe at last in my father's ’ouse, an’ my spirit’s
goin’ sore
For the ’omely priests of the creedless creed I knoo
in times before —-
The chapel where never an altar showed, that never
a pillar decked ;
The creed of the church that ’ad no walls, the sect
that ’ad no sect ;
An’ I reckon that if there’s any creed a bloke
should ’ang to —well,
It’s the one that the padres peddle there in the
livin’ Flanders ’ell;
If any faith is the only faith, you can take the oil
from me
It’s the dinkum one that the padres deal in the
fiddle oversea ;
For I've seen the 'and of a Salvo, tend a dyin'
Dublin man,
An - a wowser sped by a Brisbane priest oo’s name
was Sullivan,
An' a Rabbi liftin’ a Gentile up to murmur of
’ope, an' mix
The name of ’ome with the name of Christ, an’ show
’ini the Crucifix.
An’ once or twice to myself I've said, as I'll say it
ere again.
That the padres 'ere are padres, but the padres there
are men !
Oh, they ain’t no kings at the guyver. spun from
pamphlet, text an' tome,
But I’d like to 'ear what they're sayin’ now of the
padres hack at ’ome!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


x£z. sflz sfc. V.'z-sv?
xtesfi,
A'
USTRAL” Tailoring offers
the well-dressed men of
this City and Country a
unique service in the
complete fulfilment of their every
dress need.
In the choice of materials the most exacting preference
for weave or texture of cloth, for colorings of plain or
patterned fabrics, is met by a selection from the City’s
most varied and extensive stock.
The skill of our expert cutters is warrant not only of
absolutely satisfactory fittings, but also of a faithful
rendering of the customer’s ideas and wishes as to style.
In the finished garments is expressed the
most thorough and painstaking attention to
every detail of make and finish, a standard of
excellence which marks the character of an
Austral Sac Suit to measure through every
stage of wear.
“Austral” Sac Suits to Measure:
75/-, 85/-, 95/-, 105/-,
115/-, 126/-, 147/-, 157/6.
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns
and measurement-forms free on request.
Carriage is Paid on all Country Orders.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484-490 George Street; 3-17 Royal Arcade, and ~ ,
304-306 George Street (near Hunter Street), oydflCy.
A
*
m-
J#il
m?. i
i.
».
tv
Jt,
A
4
\3 V
s
X
; : f
I#
<i-
<£
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns and
charts which illustrate the Austral simple system of self-
measurement. The carriage is paid on, and we guarantee
the satisfactory fulfilment of, all Country Orders. Send for
patterns to-day.
h.
■"'M L.J ;
mu tmiln
HELP YOUR HOMELAND!
BUY WAR LOAN BONDS'/


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OI
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Eead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
tariff of—
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver,
Lead Drosses, etc.
or lead
Brand.
BHAS
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Pop Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance. Repairs, Renewals of Lifting
Ropes and other parts-for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and
High-pressure Stocks generally. Res, Workmanship and material.
Quotations supplied.
A MAINE HERON, .Manager.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
\ng.,’o9. .135,873 14 p.c. = 105,000 10,000 1,328,879
Fob., TO. .136,049 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,349,928
Aug., TO. .141,454 14 „ ~105,000 15,000 1,371,382
Feb.,’ll. .135,807 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,392,189
Aug.,’ll. .135,321 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,412,510
Feb., T 2. .145,257 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,442,767
Aug., T 2. .155,582 14 ~ ~105,000 1,493,349
Feb., T 3. .155,654 14 ~,,105,000 1,544,003
Aug., T 3. .135,424 14 „ ~105,000 . 1,574,427
Premiums on new shares, £400,000 1,974,427
Feb., T 4. .171,083 14 p.c.= 140,000 2,005,510
Aug., T 4. .165,950 14 ~,,140,000 2,031,460
Feb., T 5. .139,050 14 ~,,140,000 2,030,510
Aug., T 5. .140,018 14 ~ ~140,000 2,030,528
Feb., T 6. .140,846 14 ~,,140,000 2,031,374
Aug., T 6. .140,484 14 ~,,140,000 2,031,858
Feb., T 7. .161,275 14 ~,,140,000 2,053,133
There is a tradition that when you wander
in the inner sanctuaries of the Union Bank
you have to be careful where you tread lest
you trip over a reserve of some kind. In
the half-year after William had taken Europe
off its guard the profits suddenly dropped
more than £30,000, and they kept in the
neighborhood of £140.000 until the half-year
covered by the present much-travelled
accounts, when they as suddenly sprang up
over £20,000. The explanation can no
doubt be got from these two remarks made
by the chairman at shareholders’ meetings
in London :
January 29, 1917.- —As regards the bank’s invest-
ments, the directors have made very full provision,
not only for any depreciation shown on cash prices
of to-day, but even for a further possible drop in
values.... We do not absolutely write down our
investments in all cases, but we set aside reserves
for them in a round sum which we know to be
sufficient. Some banks publish at times the amount
they have taken for depreciation, but I think it is
known to most people in the city that there are very
often other amounts taken which fcre not disclosed.
July 30, 1917.—A very agreeable feature of the
half-year under review is' that, for the first time for
many half-years, it has not been necessary to provide
anything to cover depreciation on our investments.
Our investments stand in our books at prices below
the market prices of to-day.
So the apparent improvement of £20,000-odd
in the profit does not necessarily mean that
the current business of the last half-year has
been any more profitable than that of the
previous couple of years.
Still, it has probably been quite as profit-
able ; for exchanges of late have been very
lucrative, and though advances are not quite
what they were 12 months ago the rates for
accommodation are generally higher. How
the grouped balance-sheet figures compare as
at February in 1914 and in the past two
years this table shows: —
Liabilities.
1914. 1916. 1917.
Notes .. .. £183,408 £334,051 £877,405
Deposits . . 23,538,534 24,055,785 24,227,108
Bills, etc. . . 1,714,216 2,123,323 1,936,814
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 12,770,974 11,103,735 12,161,184
Advances . . 16,306,478 19,085,373 18,582,776
Premises . . 504,216 495,424 490,500
The head office is in London, and a lot,of
the deposit money of this bank is English ;
and deposits in English banks have not been
increasing like those in Australian banks,
mainly because Australia, instead of buying a
lot more foreign goods on account of the war.
has been selling a lot more products and buy-
ing less. Hence the Union’s deposits have
increased by little more than half a million.
Notes, in spite of the fact that the Common-
wealth alone now issues this paper in Aus-
tralia, actually show a larger increase than
deposits. This is entirely due to the Maori-
land proclamation making notes legal tender
in that country; and it is understood that
they will continue so for 12 months after
peace has been restored. These two move-
ments and a reduction of over half a million
in liquid assets have enabled the bank to
increase its advances by slightly over two
millions since February, 1914; yet the posi-
tion is still so strong that 45 p.c. of all the
money owing to the public is liquid. Deduct-
ing the £12,161,184 liquid from the liabilities
there remains £14,880,143 of debt repre-
sented by £19,073,276 of property other than
liquid assets; and that property includes
premises which are valued at £376,000 in the
books, though the premises in Sydney alone
are probably worth close on to that much.
And there are over 150 premises in other
parts.
But there is no bank in Australia about
whose internal economy so many moans
reach The Bulletin. One correspondent,
who goes into elaborate calculations, de-
clares that, notwithstanding a temporary
addition of 10 p.c. to salaries, the rate of
pay of the staff is only 60 p.c. to 80 p.c. of
that of the average Australian bank. The
average age of the staff is apparently 3S;
the average salary £l9B. In the four princi-
pal Maoriland offices—Christchurch. Auck-
land, Wellington and Dunedin —there are
about 110 officers, of whom only seven receive
£3OO a year or more. Answering his own
question: “Why don’t they all leave?” this
correspondent supplies three reasons: (1)
because, as a rule, the junior clerk hasn’t a
pound behind him, and a man in that posi-
tion isn't prepared to risk even a poor billet;
(2) because if he does leave he can get from
his superior officer nothing in the way of a
“reference”; and (3) because when a clerk
leaves the service he cannot obtain a refund
of the amount he has paid into the pension
fund—-5} p.c. of his salary for five years and
then 31 p.c. Possibly the directors in
London do not know how badly the pay of
the Union compares with that of most other
Australian banks: probably they do know,
but rely on the financial results to justify
their policy, like that other aristocrat, the
I*, and O. Co., used to do. In the latter
event they ought to be told that such a
defence is no good in Australia —and after
the war won't be any good in England either.
Nothing is surer than that, if the pay of
this or any other bank’s clerks is so poor that
marriage is impossible to them until they
are. as a rule, well on to 30. national policy
is going to have a very emphatic say in the
matter.
The South British Insurance Co.
(Maoriland) :
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1905. . £ 58,691 25 p.c. = #25,000 £33,691 £360,106
New Share Premiums.. 9,411 369,517
1906.. 72,103 p.c.= 27,500 44,603 414,120
1907.. 48.121 30 ~ ~ 30.000 18,121 432.241
1908.. 40,308 30 „ „ 30,000 10,308 442.549
1909.. 53,991 30 „ „ 30.000 23,991 466,540
1910.. 74,740 324 ~ ~ 32.500 42,240 508,780
1911.. 83,382 35 ~ „ 35,000 48,382 557.162
1912.. 83.633 374 „ „ 37,500 46,133 603.295
£200,000 Reserves transferred to Capital 403.295
1913.. 91,070 13J p.c.= 40,000 51,070 454,365
1914.. 88.875 15 „ „ 45,000 43,875 498,240
1915.. 134,880 15 „ „ 45,000 89,880 588,120
1916.. 109,777 15 „„ 45,000 ) 43 50<) fi9q
Written off investments, £21.268 f - > £,ua 631,6-9
1917.. 151,779 16 p.c.= 47,500 104,279 735,908
£200,000 Reserves transferred to Capital 535,908
Just before that table starts the co. thought
better of it and decided to change its con-
stitution. Previously it had written “Un-
limited” after its name. Then it authorised
a capital of £2,000.000 in £5 shares, and of
these 200,000 are issued. For a while only
10s. was paid on each ; then, wisely, £200,000
of the undivided profit was transferred to
capital, and now another £200.000 goes the
same way, making the shares paid to £2 10s.
Even then the reserves (including the re-
serve to cover unexpired risks) will exceed
the capital. Exclusive of the reserve to
cover unexpired risks, the net funds in
excess of capital will be £245,908. If the
same amount is paid aw r ay in dividend as of
late, it will equal p.c. on the new capi-
tal ; and that rate will be less likely to pro-
voke the unfriendly remarks of people who
won’t see that reserves are as much share-
holders’ money as capital is.
The profit shown in the table for the past
year does not tally with that claimed by
the published accounts. The latter show —
Surplus on underwriting . . . . £76,950
Rents and interest.. .. .. 48,083
£125,033
Less Leasehold Sinking Funds £425
Officers' Provident Fund 4829
5,254
Net profit £119,779
But as the reserves shown in the table in-
clude tbe reserve for unexpired risks, the
£30,000 added to that fund during the year
has necessarily been included as profit, along
with £2OOO which has fallen into the invest-
ment fluctuation fund without explanation.
Anyhow, whichever way you put it. you can
say this: that whatever the underwriting
profit was the whole of it and a trifle besides
has been left in the business for the greater
protection of the policy-holders. The in-
come from rents and interest was £48,083;
the dividend was only £47.500.
Largely owing to war risks the premium
income has increased very rapidly of late:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65 0 p e 94 o n c
1900.. 215,730 130,123 57,925 60.3 ~ ‘26 9
1905. . 297,822 180,009 82,366 60 4 97 7 ”
1910.. 336,542 197,320 94,824 58.6 ” 2s'l ”
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 28’7 ”
1916.. 558,799 296,038 171,537 52.9 30’7 ”
1917.. 612,870 316,669 189,250 51.7 ” 30'.9 ”
When the war is over the figures will fall
back, no doubt; for as the loss rate shows,
the premiums have increased more rapidly
than the risks, and the risks, one way and
another, have moved along smartly. But
insurance has been so much more widely
applied of recent years, and our own offices
are making so much more effective an anneal
for our own business, that when normal con-
ditions return this co.’s premium income will
probably be still well over £500,000.
The policy-holders have excellent protec-
tion. Capital and reserves are £1,035,008.
Add £400,000 as income for the ensuing
year in excess of exes.; total £1,435.908.
This means that, without calling on share-
holders, the co., presuming that it could
realise its assets, could pay claims nearly
five times greater than the exceptional losses
of last year. As to the assets —
Premises.. .. ..£235,687 17.8 p.c.
Mortgages . . . . 198,731 15.0 ~
Deposits and cash balances 318,366 24.1 ~
Stocks and debentures . . 69,090 5.2 ~
Public securities .. 475,115 36.0 „
Sundries . . . . . . 25,559 1.9 ~
Every year of late ha's seen the position
improve. Practically every penny that has
become available since the war started has
been put into public securities. And more;
for the sum out on mortgage has been
steadily reduced. And yet. as remarked
before, despite the great improvement in the
quality of the securities, interest earnings
more than paid last year’s dividend.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in
Sydney and elsewhere, and do much of it on
a time-payment basis :
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividends. not
/ A \ reckoned
Pref. Written as an
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. Off. Asset).
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1907.. 33,279 6000 74 p.c.= 11,250 2538 22,790
1908.. 33,603 6000 8 „ ~12,000 2971 10,158
Reserves.
1909.. 35,473 6542 8 „ ~12,712 2660 3,401
1910.. 39,640 7500 8 „ ~14,000 3167 18,374
Insurance Fund dropped in, £1920 . . 20 294
1911.. 43,482 8250 8 p.c.- 15,000 2788 37,738
1912.. 51,430 9000 8 „ ~16,000 2946 61,222
1913.. 36,121 9000 8 „ ~16,000 3379 68,964
1914.. 38,660 9000 S ~ ~16,000 4171 78,453
1915.. 34,868 9000 8 ~ ~16.000 4066 84,255
1916.. 39,607. 9000 8 ~ ~16,000 4873 93,989
1917.. 45,271 9000 10 „ ~20,000 4148 106,112
This co. has made good use of its chances.
Taking over an old-established business in
1902, it erected what was regarded as an
advertising building at the doorstep of Syd-
ney’s new million-pound railway terminus.
A few years ago business had so grown that
the co. had to build additional large pre-
mises across the road. Sydney for many
years has been living more or less in luxury ;
for centralisation has made the city fat at
the expense of the rest of the State. Even
in drought years the metropolis has not had
to deny itself a new hat; and since McGowen
and Holman discovered how easily the State
could be pawned, Sydney has had' still gayer
times. Although a lot of this prosperity is
bogus because of the p.ns. that lie at * the
bottom of the State cash-box to haunt future
Treasurers, there’s no doubt of its effect on
firms such as Marcus Clark’s. The co. has
made a fine art of time-payment business;
and though there is much prejudice against
that system, it is beyond question that in
times of plenty it helps the workingman to
secure a few of the comforts of life. The
fly in the butter is that in lean years
the workingman’s wife is still liable to' con-
tinue utilising the system to acquire gauds.
Take a 10 years’ survey :
„ A 1907. 1914. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Mortgages £40,800 £38,000 £69,500 £68,000 £66,000
Other debts 82,745 72,538 47,064 59,664 67,589
Stock .. 108,970 105,434 158,758 170,317 164,693
Book debts 139,424 198,078 192,802 209 093 292 406
Freeholds 80,581 86,643 93,604 95,896 97’146
Leaseholds 12,855 70,448 72,825 67,149 68^062
Plant, etc. 18,314 21,215 21,633 24,856 23 617
Cash, etc... 1,861 19,673 23,697 16,842 30,27 s
The co. paid £72,377 for goodwill, but, to the
credit of the directors, divs. were kept down
until the item disappeared altogether and sub-
stantial reserves were accumulated. Capital is
£350,000, consisting of 200.000 £1 ordinaries
and 15,000 £lO 6 p.c. prefs. In 10 years
liabilities have been increased by £10,044
and £lOO,OOO of new capital has been got in.
M?> a noo me has been added to stock,
£82,982 to book debts (principally t.p.
balances), £71.772 to properties, £5303 to
plant, etc., and £28,417 to investments and
cash. 80, provided stock, property and
plant have been correctly valued and that
the big book-debts item is adequately pro-
tected, the co. is about £134,000 better off
than it was 10 years ago. On the £200,000
of ordinary capital that is equivalent to
over 04 p.c. p.a. which has gone into the
business. As to the future—well, State
borrowing is fizzling out, and already we are
feeling the effects of footing a war-bill that
continues to mount by a million or so each
week. It seems almost certain that for a
few yeank at any rate, after we have fin-
ished mafficking, there won’t be much spare
c ?.? h to ornamental sticks and gay
silks.. But Marcus Clark’s will be in a good
position to meet the trouble.
A. and E. Ellis, Ltd., sawmillers anri
timber merchants, of Sydney ana n d
N.S.W. northern rivers:— d the
Profits. Dividends. , o Re '
Aug., 1912.. £Oll7 10 p.c. = £4955 £n 62 " f S
„ 1913 . . 7588 10 „ „ 5597 ioq? £4187
Feb., 1914.. 4218 10 „ „ 3495 3178
Aug., 1914.. 4398 7 „ „ 2025 1 ll- 1
Feb., 1915 . . 3771 8 3000 77? 4
Aug-., 1910 . . 3744 8,, „ 3000 taa 5 44 °
Feb., 1910.. 3736 8 ” fooS 489
Aug., 1910.. 3104 8„ „ 3000 in, f 925
Feb., 1917 . . 2249 6 „ 2250 104 29
A„ S .. 1.17.. 227! 6 ” „ £g 7 ( Jg
When your eye runs down the column de
voted to Profits don’t omit to note that the
first two entries are for a year apiece Even
then there has been a serious falling away
and. considering that none of the capital is rep
resented by goodwill or similar unsubstantial
assets, the return of barely 6 p.c. for the
past year is pretty poor. And it doesn’t
look any better when you find out that the
liabilities are now only a very little short
of £30.000, as against £lB,OOO IS months
ago. Two things seem to be chiefly the
matter. (1) The co. deals largely in' hard-
woods, and the demand for hardwoods for
home use and export has fallen away badly •
there is practically no export trade at all'
(LM The co. put a good deal of money into
N S W. North Coast mills, and on account
of war conditions it hasn’t been able to make
full use of the plant. This may also explain
why stocks have increased in 18 months
from £29,018 to £40.078, and that in its
turn explains the larger liabilities shown
above. There is, no doubt, a risk in piling
up stocks in the present gravely uncertain
times; all the same, it is very probable that
peace will be followed by a brisk demand for
Australian hardwoods abroad. The timber
merchant who depends upon a local trade is
going to have a very slow time before long;
but those, like A. and .E. Ellis, who handle
hardwoods, and especially big sticks, may
make more than bread and cheese.
* * * *
The Union Building Society (Mel-
bourne)
, Added to Re-
Jiuy, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1906 .. £lOlO 5 p.c. = £560 £450 £2,574
1907 . . 1640 6,, ~ 1555 85 2,659
1908 . . 2264 6 ~ ~ 1654 610 ' 3 269
1909 . . 2410 7 „,, 2068 342 3’611
1910 .. 2848 7 „ „ 2251 597 4’208
1911 .. 3629 7 „ ~ 2517 1112 5*320
1912 .. 4317 7A „ ~ 2975 1342 6,662
1913 .. 47T4 74 „ „ 3130 1584 8 246
1914 .. 4686 71 „ ~3323 1363 9,609
1915 .. 5037 7\ „ ~3480 1557 11,166
1916 . . 5235 8 „ „ 3821 1414 12,580
1917 . . 5228 8„ ~ 3936 1292 13,872
Even though there are rocks ahead this
society should be able to keep well off.
Assuming ordinarily intelligent control a
building society ought to be in no danger so
long as it has plenty of warning of a coming
storm. It can then exercise very special
care in making new advances; the old ad-
vances, provided that repayments have been
kept up, can mostly look after themselves.
In this case the new advances made during
the past year totalled only £17,415; and
about £lOO,OOO of the mortgages, etc., now
outstanding (£120,816) should represent pro-
perties upon which at least two years’ re-
payments have been made. The other possi-
ble source of building-society trouble is a
disquieting excess of borrowed money in
proportion to the society’s own funds. The
1 nion has £49,444 of permanent and £3958
of terminating capital; and the total lia-
bilities to the public are shown in this table:
- Assets.
Deposits, Loans, , x. N
July, Overdrafts, etc. Mortgages. Liquid Assets.
1907 .. £25,041 £56,394 £42
1910 . . 44,348 86,109 6
1911 . . 46,239 93,158 21
1912 .. 63,490 115,148 36
1913 .. 54,565 110,290 10
1914 .. 65,735 126,544 10
1915 . . 62,731 127,568 10
1916 . . 56,228 124,250 10
1917 . . 50,554 120,816 920
Depositors,. etc., are thus* amply protected:
the securities would have to lose more than
half their value before the borrowed capital
would be in jeopardy ; and that means that,
even though creditors might want their
money, they are not at all likely to want it
in a panicky rush, and even if they were
suddenly afflicted with mania the society’s
position is such that it could command bank-
ing-support. Further, because of this strong
position tlm society isn’t likely to have to
rush anything on the market and make
sacrifices of capital. As for profits, how-
ever. the future holds some drier times. For
a year or two after the war there may possi-
bly 7 be something of a boom in certain direc-
tions, and that is the time when the mana-
ger who wants to save himself trouble will
have to keep his head. After that, there is
going to be a time of stress; and this society
isn’t likely to do a flourishing business any
more than others.
“Gadget”: Mount Lyell has posted
notices warning machine drillmen that if by
any chance the water service is cut off. they
must at once notify the shift boss and secure
other employment, and on no account are


When instructing your Solicitor
to draw
YOUR WILL
direct him to n me
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
AS YOUR EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of the assets
and obtain a degree of Security for Proper
Administration far beyond the power of the
private “amateur"’ trustee. ,
An interesting booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CHAMBERS,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’Assurance
Company Limited.
Money is a Good Soldier.
Invest in the Liberty Loan.
The wide application of electric motors in the
mining and industrial field has in a large measure
been made possible only by the variety of control
systems available. For years the advantage of con-
trolling motors by means of push-buttons has been
evident. The General Electric Company has developed
and is prepared to furnish practical devices for start-
ing, stopping and controlling the speed of motors,
simply by pushing a button. Write to the Australian
General Electric Company, Sydney and Melbourne,
for their pamphlet entitled “Push-button control,”
which is based on the principle “speed first.” — Advt.
We can avoid most things bearing the trade-
mark, “Made in Germany” except trouble. Even
that can be disregarded on occasions. You will never
have trouble with your roof if you specify “Adamax”
Asphaltum Roofing. “Adamax” is the roofing of no
regrets. It costs less to buy and less to freight- than
galvanised iron, and has actually outlived that
material under stringent weather conditions. “Ada-
max” being water-tight is ideal for roofs of low
pitch, and low roofs effect a considerable saving in
timbers and roofing material. “Adamax” is fire-
resistant, rust- and rot-proof. Write for the “Ada-
max Booklet” and price list. William Adams'& Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide.— Advt.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. [1
For hydraulic mining and dredging Pioneer Wood
Pipe is the ideal piping to give satisfactory service.
It withstands erosion and carries the heavist material
brought up by the dredges without deterioration. It
is light for transport and easily handled, connections
and disconnections being a very simple matter. We
manufacture a special line of Pioneer Wood Pipe for
this purpose. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Woodpipe Co-., Ltd. (Head office), Burns
Bay Road, Longueville. Contractors to all State
Governments. Factories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W. ;
Footscrav, Vic., and Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates, supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Gyratory Rock Crusher, from Australian stock.
The world-renowned “McCully” No. 4 Manganese
fitted. Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Apply,
sole representatives: Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
Head Office, The Quay, Sydney; or The Australian
Machinery Co. Ltd., 130 Charlotte-street, Bris-
bane.— Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained.. Collison & Co., 4S3 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. . Call or write for particulars. II B
Selby * Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; 'and
442 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
/EARt BORNEO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
ACENTS WANTED.
Insure in
Tl “ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,165 6 6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established U)tO.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. 11l CAV K, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
drills to be used without water-jets. Pen-
alty for wage employees, the sack ; for con-
tractors, cancellation. Much has been writ-
ten about the difficulty of getting miners to
use the water-jets where provided, but at
the same time the defection was usually
winked at. Rival shift bosses, trying to
beat the other fellow’s tally, were indiffer-
ent whether water was used or not. The
man who was prepared to keep his drill going-
wet or dry was usually in favor, whilst the
man who refused to work his drill without
water was regarded as a nuisance. More
especially was this the case with regard to
one-man drills, poppers and telescope drills.
The work of a popper man being of a peram-
bulatory nature, he has, if he wishes to bore
with water, to drag a hose with him from
place to place and arrange it so as to run
a stream of water into the borehole. This
is easy when a hole is being bored straight
down in a boulder, but where breast holes
are required it is a different matter, and it
is really the work of two men to keep the
dust down properly. The modern popper
is a frightful dust-producer; I have seen dust
flying from a borehole that was being bored
an inch under water. As the man who is
doing his best to keep down the dust is not
able to bore nearly so much as the dry-borer,
naturally the dry-borer is in favor with the
tally-chaser. This of course will not be
possible at Lyell under the new regulation,
as the boss -who permits dry boring will be
equally culpable and liable te the sack. The
new order is viewed with approval by the
local Miners’ Association, which has never
held any brief for the dry-borer. 1 do
not know if mining cos. in other States have
ever taken similar action. If no; it might
well be copied, and will be a step to miti-
gate the dust curse.
* * * *
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1911.. 7,191 15 p.c. = 4497 2,694 89,10.8
Premiums on new shares . . 5,282 94,450
June, 1912.. 6,739 15 p.c. = 4894 1.845 96,295
£66,370 Reserves transferred to capital 29,925
Unexplained additions to reserves ..1,377 31,302
Dec., 1912.. 7,089 10 p.c. = 6637 452 31,754
Assets written up . . 67.801 99.555
£99,555 Reserves transferred to capital
June, 1913.. 8,377 10 p.c. = 6637 1,740 1,740
“A” k “B” “C”
' Shares Shares
8 p.c. 5 3-5 p.c.
Dec., 1913 . . 10,160 9292 187 681 2,421
June, 1914 . . 9,627 9292 308 27 2,448
Dec., 1914 .. 11,111 9292 468 1351 3,799
7 p.e. 4 9-10 p.c.
June, 1915 .. 8,906 8130 551 225 4,024
Dec., 1915 .. 9,077 8130 691 256 4,280
June, 1916 .. 9.619 8130 832 657 4,937
Dec., 1916 .. 9,677 8130 972 575 5,512
June, 1917 .. 8,313 8132 1111 4,582
This is one of the cos. mentioned in the
schedule of the N. S. Wales Gas Act. the
elaborate but shambling Labor legislation
designed to regulate dividends and the price
of gas and maintain a standard quality.
Cos. are not permitted to pay dividends in
excess of 10 p.c. p.a. on old capital and
7 p.c. on new ordinary capital, unless the
price of gas is brought below the standard.
But they can apply to raise the standard
on account of added cost of production. To
start the joke, the cos. were allowed to
revalue their assets and increase their capi-
tal to correspond. Thus Newcastle Gas
tacked £09.555 to capital, wffiieh now stands
at £281,053, made up in this way :
66,370 “A” shares paid to £2 = £132,740
06.370 “B” shares paid to£l 10s.= 99,555
28,681 “C” shares paid to£l 14s.= 48,758
To pay the standard 10 and 7 p.c. dividends
under the Act would require a yearly net
profit of £26,642, or nearly 50 p.c. more
than is disclosed for the past 12 months.
Thus the prospects of Newcastle gas-con-
sumers securing a reduction in their bills
because of the fat profits the co. is making
are remote. On the other hand, the dis-
closed net profit is less now with gas at
something over 4s. per 1000 ft. than it was
when the Act fixed the standard rate at 3s.
6d. But The Bulletin is not prepared to
swear that the net profit disclosed in the
published accounts is the true net profit.
The ridiculous Act was supposed to pre-
vent monkeying with the accounts. But
it doesn’t—doesn’t, in fact, prevent monkey-
ing with anything. In three years £34.437
of new capital has been got in. Other
balance-sheet fig res have moved this way:
June,’l4. June,’l6. June,’l7.
Liabilities .. .. £12,462 £31,444 £33,773
Buildings, plant, mains 255,603 296,365 305,939
Stocks 10,330 11,566 13,273
Liquid assets . . . . ' 5,213 6,992 9,440
£50,336 has thus been added to plant, etc.,
£2943 to stocks, and £4227 to liquid assets.
Meantime liabilities have increased by
£21,311. On those figures the co. has im-
proved its position by £1758 in three years;
but, again, all depends on what unmen-
tioned profit has been put into plant, etc., and
written off ostensibly to cover depreciation.
The half-yearly meeting of Y Water did
nothing to scatter the gloom. Chairman
Wharton stated that the latest run (Aug. 10
i'ioda' 9) realised 41 tons concentrates from
128,000 cub yds. Now, 41 tons concentrates
at £l4O per ton = £5740, and Wharton states
that exes, ran off with £5300; so though the
price taken for tin concentrates is nearly a
record, the gross profit is a poor £440, or
under £ll per ton of concentrate. All that
can be said is that if £129 is to be the aver-
age cost of producing a ton of tin oxide the
proposition is heavily handicapped.
* * *
Last fortnight’s mill run by the Bendigo
Amalgamated was 20820 z. from 7224 tons.
This is with mineral and tributors’ con-
tributions thrown in, so that the return
pans out about 6dwt. Although this is the
very best done since Dyason started, there
can t be much left over from working account
for development. The rich stone at Garden
Gully didn’t go much further than fill a
space in Drummond’s Collins-street window.
Slieepshead has brightened up by getting on
to a bit of specimen dirt, but what is wanted
is more leaven in the big Carlisle formation.
As Collins-street didn’t bite at the Vic-
toria Prop., Bendigo, the way was opened
to New Chum Goldfields to cut in. In its
own mine the rich shoot had petered out
before reaching the Victoria boundary. The
co. out in the Victoria shaft at
1065 ft. on the deeper saddle, and then made
for the eastern back, where good prospects
were got. It also went out at 1163 ft., and
struck nice gold on the same back. Now it
has driven north and south about 140 ft. on
the eastern back, and pretty well paid off its
debts out of the proceeds. South the ground
is faulted, with less gold showing ; but north
the face looks all right. There isn’t more
than about a foot of quartz at present, but
there is plenty of untouched formation on the
leg to affirm that New Chum Goldfields has
sw r ung round another very nasty corner. The
office lately stopped inspection by newspaper
reporters except on visiting days, such as
has always been allowable at Bendigo. The
dailies could have won by avoiding reference
to the co. or its mine ; but proprietors aren’t
built that way since the days of D. Syme
and F. \V. Had don.
It is sticking out that the estimate of
seven or eight months’ call-making to carry
out James Hebbard’s recommendations for
getting things into trim at the New Langi
.Logan (Vic.) won’t be realised. His report
is dated May 21. Half the eight months
have gone, and there’s no sign of the end of
the campaign of dead work. This means no
gold production, with pumping all the while,
with the fuel bill up, and the price of mine
supplies high. All the while the quality and
supply of labor doesn’t improve. A develop-
ment was got on the Cathcart lead; but as
possibilities there are pretty well taped up,
the market blinked for a moment and dozed
again. The prop is firm under South Langi
Logan, but this show also is in the epoch of
call-making, even with truck-load samples
coming in. The run of pay wash is still too
narrow and patchy to give release from
calls.
* * * *
What got Duke and Main Leads Consols
(Vic.) off the dividend list last half-year was
that the gold contents of the wash fell away
and the wage bill went up. Of the gold won
7H p.c. had to go to pay the staff, against
60 p.c. in the previous term. A block of
700 ft. of the gutter had to be left as unpay-
able, and the run of gold ahead narrowed by
half. To save calls a lot of the stuff had
to be discarded. Costs thereupon jumped to
595.. a rise* of 7s. per fathom; and with
gold down from 635. to 555. per fathom it
doesn’t take a bank clerk to work out what
drift went on. Glover has 800 ft. of the gut-
ter drained ahead, out of which he reckons
to make small profits, with 2000 ft. further
to go to reach the boundary. It seems to
be poor business to pay a div. on such pros-
pects ; but the Board is shelling out 6d. in
time for the Cup wagering.
* * * *
The opening of the East-West railway
will undoubtedly stimulate prospecting east-
wards from Ivalgoorlie. The first fruit is
the discovery of quartz leaders four miles
from the 29-mile peg. The prospectors are
Westhead and Dwyer, and their first crush-
ing of 34 tons returned 2790 z. A Ivalgoorlie
syndicate owns a half-interest, and the divi-
dend from this crushing amounted to £32
per share. A lode formation has also been
discovered in a railway cutting, and per-
mission has been obtained to crosscut at a
depth of 60ft. from an old shaft near by.
“Oof Bird”: The recent boom in Edna
Deeps settled several Perth bears and
maimed others. Some local brokers were
let in badly by clients, while one who
specked thousands on his own account has
assigned his estate. How badly the market
turned against him may be gathered from the
fact that on July 8 his dealings in the scrip
showed a surplus of £550 and a month later
a deficiency of over £25.000. Three or four
Adelaide and Sydney firms figure as creditors
for most of this amount.
From Westonia
Mow that the Edna Deeps No. 4 level has been
opened up for a length of 180 ft. it is known that
the 2oz. shoot is comparatively short —about 40 feet.
Total reserves above No. 4 level are about 17,000
tons, and these will average hardly £4 per ton.
Considering the large amount necessary to be ex-
pended on development and equipment it is safe
to say that it was the oversold state of the market
and not the merits of the mine that recently
caused the shares to rise to over 40s. Unless the
mine improves below the present bottom level an
occasional fid. div. is the best that can be expected.
Edna May Central recently exposed a small green-
stone dyke in the west drive on the New reef at
No. 4 level and immediately met a heavy inflow of
water. This dyke will most likely prove identical
with the one that held back the water in the adjoin-
ing Edna May. If this should be so Central is likely
to be adorned with more pumps than dividends. So
far the co. has paid 3s. per share, and unless some-
thing is soon located better than what is already
in sight . the 3s. is not likely to be materially
augmented, notwithstanding recent good management.
Edna May ore reserves are being gradually depleted
and another 18 months should see the end. The co.,
however, holds a very strong interest in Westonian
water rights, which may provide a few additional
dividends. n.
Some people in the East continue to take the
Battler seriously, although it contains nothing better
than a narrow quartz vein of no value so far as
dividends are concerned.
* * * *
The Transvaal mine, Southern Cross
(W.A.), is said to have been sold to some-
one in Victoria ; and it is pretty certain that
the vendor will get the better of the deal.
The prospectors sold the show to two West-
ralians for £l5O and an interest, and a 20-
head mill with cyanide plant was installed
at a cost of something over £6OOO. After
five years of strenuous effort, the pur-
chasers were feeling very sick, when the
Mountain Queen Co. bought them out. The
Mountain Queen sank £20,000 in the show
before abandoning it. The Transvaal has
had about as good attention as the West is
capable of giving a mine, but so far it has
proved itself nothing more than a hole into
which much capital lias been dropped.
Reported that a U.S.A. co. is prepared to
expend £lOO,OOO on Fraser’s leases at South-
ern Cross (W.A.). For many years Fraser’s
was a valuable and well-managed concern.
All payable ore to 400 ft. that might reason-
ably be said to have been in sight was raised ;
and systematic diamond-drilling to 1000 ft.
disclosed nothing better than 7ft. of 30dwt.
ore at one point. In addition, the old work-
ings are now flooded. Everything considered,
Brother Jonathan appears to be extremely
venturesome with his £lOO,OO0 —if there is
any truth in the story.
John Wool cock, after roaming from
Broken Hill to Mount Elliott, has settled
down, till more screw comes along, at the
old Bingo mine, next door to the Wallaroo
(S.A.). His mission is to show the Han-
cocks and such like that all the outside
ground at the old copper-field isn’t worked
out. Tom Rollason is at the purse-strings,
so nothing very rash will be done. The
backers are the Londoners who have had the
New Lyell Consols on and off for the past
decade. The Government has stuck in one
or two drill-holes, and when the co. was not
reconstructing it was poking a shaft down
to 250 ft. The puzzle of striking the lode is
about as tough as it is to get at Woolcock’s
opinions in the following burst: —-
From information locally available (and we have
it on undoubted authority) as to quantities and
values of the oxidised ores formerly raised from the
property, together with the knowledge already
gained in the workings below and the results of
boring of the existence of good grade sulphides
below the oxidised ores, the prospects of opening
up bodies of sulphides at depth would appear to be
highly promising.
When Geology Jack wrote the other day
about the same mine he said “it is believed”
that considerable quantities of ore were ob-
tained, and there was “reputedly” a lode
7ft. to Bft. wide of grey ore, trying 40 p.c.
for fine copper. Risky ice to skate on, that!
What the co. has to work on is £5551 of in-
stalments unpaid on 150,000 shares.- There
are a few hundreds in cash—just about equal
to the amounts owing to sundry creditors. It
isn’t a satisfactory financial beginning for a
prospecting venture. But chairman Dun-
ster’s faith -may move mountains of difficul-
ties.
Coronet Ilill (N.T.) has received from
Port Ivembla £1219 for a consignment of 1192
bags of copper ore, weighing altogether 62
tons. This averages over £l9 per ton ; but
carting from the mine to Pine Creek (50
miles), railage to Darwin and shipment to
Kembla makes a big hole in that. Manager
Caiman reckons the cost of transport and
treatment at £l4 per ton of ore, and on that
basis the cost even with 20 p.c. ore is £7O
per ton of copper. It is poor policy to send
away the pick of the mine under these con-
ditions.
Hampden Cloncurry is interested in some
Papuan copper shows and has engaged J. C.
Blanchard, recently with the Corolla co., to
look after its interests. Blanchard has gone
to Port Moresby and will spend some time
at Laloki. The Laloki itself fell into the
hands of the Gt. Fitzroy copper co., and the
debenture-holders have been trying to sell.
It is handy to port.
“M. 0.” : Queensland talks about being the
most important producer of molybdenite:
but lier quarter's output to the end of June
was worth only £13,500, and that didn’t
represent the big end of the world’s supply.
One mine in Canada produced 129,2761b. in
1916, valued at a dollar per lb. (=£31,200) ;
and there is constant talk of new discoveries.
What there isn’t talk of is the development
of new uses for the metal.
“Platman”: A word or two about Mount
poolan (Q.), of which very little has been
heard lately. Barclay, who holds a' large
area, is putting up 30-head of 12001b. stamps
and has 30 men working, and things look
bright for him. lie is a great doer. Having
found a good fireclay, he makes his own
fire- as well as building-bricks. He is also
making his own cement from a local deposit
of gypsum. That’s the sort of man for an
out-of-the-way place like Mount Coolan,
which is the centre of a triangle whose
angles are at Clermont, Bowen and Ayr.
The old Vulcan tin-mine, Irvinebank
(Q.)> has broken out in a new place.
Recently 38 tons crushed yielded £44S worth
of wolfram.


Charles
lleidsieckS
Vintage 1906
CMIWIt
m plus ultra
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Leual Notices.
THOMAS MARSHALL. formerly of
1 Perthshire. Scotland, last heard of in
New Zealand, and his children and all per-
sons claiming- by, through or under him or
them.
PURSUANT to an Order made under Sec-
tion 25 of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act 1013 by the Honorable Mr. Justice
Ilosking a Judge of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand made at Wellington on the
sth day of September 1017 you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the first day of June 1018 your
claims to the estate of James Marshall." for-
merly of Lawrence New Zealand who died
on the 27th day of May 1916. failing which
the estate will be distributed amongst the
persons entitled thereto disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 6th day of
September. 1917.
J. W. MACDONALD.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Death.
COX. —On May 10, Doris Mary, the dearly-
loved and only child of William and
Ada Cox, New Road, Gravesend, aged
20 years.
Interred in Maidstone Cemetery.
BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXIONS
WITHOUT ROUGE.
Ladies who dislike rouge and “make-up”
and what lady of refinement does not —often
ask what they can do to restore the natural
velvety bloom of childhood to faded, sallow,
wrinkled cheeks. All such ladies, as well
as those who now have good complexions
and wish to preserve them, can realise their
hearts* desire by getting their chemist to
prepare a lotion composed of 2oz. rose-
water, 1 dram tincture of benzoine, and 2oz.
flowers of oxzion. Before using shake
thoroughly, and then apply with a soft
cloth or sponge. When dry brush lightly
with a soft cloth or piece of chamois-leather.
If you will do this whenever you go out you
w'ill be astonished at the absolutely natural
and refined improvement in your appear-
ance. This lotion is also exceptionally
beneficial in relieving and preventing
chapped faces and hands, as well as redness
due to exposure to weather,- —Adyt.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <SL CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ Oa CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
MINIATURE PICTURE CAMPAIGN
in aid of
ST. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE.
500,000 MINIATURES OF FAMOUS PICTURES FOR SALE AT 1/- EACH.
>lr. John Wren will Buy the Winning Miniature for £5OOO or £lOOO.
49 Others will be Bought for Sums ranging from £l2O to £5.
CAMPAIGN CLOSES NOVEMBER 30. DRAWING ON DECEMBER S.
Apply THE SECRETARY, ST. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 22, 1917.
My Dear Akini, —
The French soldiers, passing through Syd-
ney, had some strenuous days while the girl
and her mamma rushed the refreshments
round. The picnic to La Perouse, as
guests of the French-Australian League and
local Red Cross branches, was one of the
liveliest functions. The morning parade,
or whatever it was, in front of Government
House, was the most dreary. When the
Frenchmen brushed the dew off the lawn at
9 a.ra. no one was there to welcome them.
This was accidental, but dull. Presently
Deputy-Governor Cullen arrived, and Consul
Chayet with other officials poured words of
praise over the visitors’ blue-grey backs.
Some of the uniforms, by the way, are khaki,
hut cut differently to our men’s, and saucy
little black forage caps, with a lop-over on
one side, make a dandy top-dressing. After
being purred over, the company, about 200
strong, departed. No band, no liquid nour-
ishment, no nothin’. Plain citizens did
their best to fill the vacuum later in the day.
The Hon. Norah Robinson, a grand-
daughter of Sir Hercules, one of this State’s
most popular Governors —ho was afterwards
Baron Itosmead—was married a few weeks
ago in England. The man was Lieut. John
Cope, one of Shackleton’s men in the last
Antarctic Expedition. The usual British
weather prevailed, and the whole village of
Datchet, which is said to have “turned out
to see the wedding,” was wet to the skin in
consequence.
A few weeks ago there was news of the
serious illness of the Countess of Portarling-
ton, and hardly anyone remembered that
Sydney had a detached interest in the in-
valid. She recovered, but her father. Geo.
Skelton Yuill, had a big funeral that filled
its starting-place, Phillip-street. with a
double line of motors. Winnifreda, his only
child, got a handsome settlement when she
married an Irish peer in 1907 —and needed
it. Portarlington, by the way, was one of
the Pages at King Edward’s coronation.
A recent English mail brings a few lines
from Major Wallis of the Worcesters.
You’ll place him as the sporty young Irish-
man who was on Governor Strickland’s staff.
When war came he couldn’t get a coo-ee to
his own regiment, then in Belgium, so he
hurried to Gallipoli (as it happened) with
General Bridges, and was nearby when the
fatal bullet came. At the close of that fly-
bitten campaign Wallis was so badly
wounded that he was likely—by every medi-
••■il rule—to spend the rest of his days on
,r| e S'ck list. Instead, he has ever since
been fighting in France, when he hasn't been
’ome with "Blighties,” and is up to his knees
in mud at present.
The Mcßoberts family, of Burwood and
Leura, are mourning the death from wounds
in Flanders of Bill, their youngest boy.
This fine lad wasn’t satisfied with one or
two rebuffs at the recruiting-office; he
simply put himself in the hands of the phy-
sical dulturists till lie was fit, and then
passed into the Artillery. The dark day
that brought news of his death brought news
also that an elder' brother, Dugald. had
been wounded. That one is apparently
doing well in Colchester Hospital.
After Uncle Waiter Watt’s wedding,
nephew Jack —a son of Peter Watt —was
quietly married at Chatswood to a Neutral
Bay girl. The plump, fair bride, Enid
Price, was gowned in white crepe de chine.
The only bridesmaid, Helen, sister of the
’groom, was in the white muslin and blue
sash of the teeny age. Harold Radford was
second-best man. Mrs. Peter Watt —they
hail from Goonal station, in the Moree
hinterland—came to town for the affair.
Help! The Hospice for the Dying, which
fell amongst thieves a while ago. is out
begging for all you can do for it. The
beautiful haven for those who want a peace-
ful passing is, or ought to be, an eternal
charge on the charitable. You can get a
nice, comfortable feeling to go on with by
buying tickets for the benefit matinee. At
the Tivoli on October 30.
Melba’s daughter-in-law and George
Armstrong are still housed at Potts Point.
The Highest Boots are calling and doing
what they can to atone for Melba’s absence.
Rupert Minnett took Coral, the beauty of
the Braidwood Maddrell family, on his
khakied arm and marched down St. James’s
aisle, proud as any 7 peacock. The wedding
wasn’t so quiet as it threatened to be. Guests
iu the latest fashion—ladies in low-cut even-
ing garb and escorts in khaki or swallow
tails. The bride —father handed her over —
wore her dark tresses simply swathed round
her head under the circlet of orange-blossoms
that held yards of tulle veil in place. The
faintest gleam of pink and crystal showed
through the clouds of white tulle that built
the frock. Sister Pearl —all the family have
been named after precious stones —was pale
pink, with a big black hat on top of her
sleek locks. Party at the Carlton, where a
number of Braidwood folks foregathered.
The Woman Inspector of State Schools is
caged at last. After much beating about the
bush, the Department has captured Miss M.
Simpson, whose photo. I sent you some time
ago. A few years back she went to Italy
to sip the Montessori method from the foun-
tain, and, returning, became a force in kin-
dergarten work. You'll judge what sort of
woman the new inspector is when I tell
you that it was she who put a daring ques-
tion at a recent Child Welfare Conference:
“Why are school playgrounds shut and the
gates bolted at 4 o’clock on summer after-
noons'.' 1 And why should the wistful little
faces of the children of crowded city areas
be pressed, as I often see them, against the
outside of the railings?” No one could
answer her.
Poor M aggie Knight, who died here last
week, was a sound, versatile actress and
owned an attractive personality. A Maori-
lander from the North Island, she went on
the stage as a child. Her first husband was
one Jewett, also a mummer, and her second
Harry Henderson, a popular, well-known
man, an Aucklander, manager of a shipping
co. in Sydney some 10 or 12 years ago. Her
only son is doing his bit in France.
The most astonished persons at the Ash-
field Infants’ Home fete were the cows. The
dairy herd came with tossing horns to look
over the low fence and get the hang of an
effusive brass band. On the garden lawn
rolled the chubby pink-cheeked babies, while
the committee dames—president Mrs. Mac-
Callum, hon. treas. Mrs. Gritten —bustled
round the stalls. The late Thomas Walker
supplied the cash to give the kiddies’ flower-
trimmed home a good start, and it’s as unlike
an “institoosh’n” as a roomy mansion set in
spacious green swards can be.
The delicate fea-
tures over the black
bow belong to Zora
Cross, whose “Songs
of Love and Life,”
published by Tyr-
rell’s. Ltd., are now
on the Australian
market. That portion
of the market which
has sat at the feet of
F ranees Ridl e y
Havergal. or recited
the stanzas of gentle
Felicia llemans. will
quail before the
fierce storms of
Zora’s Love Son-
nets. But there are
softer moods. Ro-
mantic schoolgirls
will take “The New Moon” to their hearts.
And, after the porridge of our daily diet,
“The Poet’s Garden’’ is ambrosia. The
versatile young Australian, after giving
brilliant promise as a teacher of the
very young kiddikin, had the almost
inevitable stage fever, and wore the
grease-paint in vaudeville and drama. But
all that wilted before the waves of poetic
frenzy. Zora has plunged boldly where
most of her sex only dabble on the shore.
Should Mrs. Grundy hurl herself into the
same deep waters, in wrathful pursuit of
the daring rhymester, perhaps someone will
throw the good lady a lifebelt. Yet the
work is charming, and there’s courage in the
effort.
The Y.M.C.A. had its 63rd annual song of
thanksgiving in the Town Hall the other
evening. Deputy-Gov. Cullen was in the
chair, and behind were members of the Citi-
zens’ Committee who had backed the big
Triangle Day call for funds. This money,
£186.000 or so, was given, and, as general-
sec. Gillanders said, will be used, absolutely
for Y.M. work behind the firing-line. Prin-
cipal Harper, chief of the Scotchbyterian
College, thrilled the audience. lie was in
England a year or so ago. As a guest of the
Oxford Uni. he heard a plain unvarnished
tale of the German entry into Louvain. One
of the College Masters had it from the trem-
bling lips of an old Belgian doctor who
passed out in the English Uni., a refugee
who died of shock a few months after his
arrival from the ashes of his home. They
saw my manuscript, just finished-j-the worK
of IS years, and the result of a life study ot
spinal disease. The German non-commis-
sioned officer in charge of a squad held it
up, laughed and burnt it before my eyes.
They went through the ceremony of tying me
up, and pretended to shoot —because I would
not tell them what they wanted to know.
Upstairs, after torturing my wife, they cut
the throat of a pig and set it loose to bleed
to death in her drawing-room. These are
onl.v the small things they did, but they are
seared into our memories !" "I tell you this,
to again remind you.”- said Dr. Harper, ot
the kind of foe we are up against—and vet
we cannot get reinforcements for our men at
the Front!”
An old playbill of
an amateur perform-
ance of Simmer
Locke’s first play,
“The Vicissitudes of
Vivien ne,” brings
mingled memories.
“Summie” herself is
dead, a bride of less
than a year, and her
soldier-husband, 11.
Logan Elliott, is
somewhere at the
Front. This bright,
slight girl, with many
a short story, a play
and two books
(“Mum Dawson,
Boss” —recently dra-
matised —and “Sam-
aritan Mary”) to her credit, had just
returned from an American tour. An
interested participator in that amateur
show was “Summie’s” bosom pal, pretty
Ruby Moore, whose marriage to Lieut.
Donald Alsop in London is just an-
nounced. Her presence at the long-ago
matinee was responsible for a sentimental
Bulletin verse. She specialised in physical
culture and folk-dances, and the grace of
the kiddies taught by her was something to
marvel at. Allie Robson, who was also
behind the footlights, has just come back
from America with her two Repertory
chums, the Handley girls—Kate and Isabel.
Poor, plucky little “Summie”—she would
have had. great literary successes had not
the curtain dropped so soon! A tiny boy
lives after her.
Brian Macnamara, lieutenant of Artillery,
killed the other day in France, was a son of
that Melbourne J. Macnamara, now deceased,
who pursued costs as a solicitor long ago at
Deniliquin and afterwards in Sydney.
Young Macnamara enlisted in the ranks, but
was promoted step by step till he wore two
stars; and a few days before his death he
won the Military Cross. Twin-brother
Lionel was killed two years ago at Gal-
lipoli. Both were old boys of Sydney Gram-
mar. Two younger brothers are still with
the A.I.F.
The Soldiers’ Club bazaar was a huge
success. The Meagher committee, with doubt-
ful taste, picked the long-chosen club date,
October 19, to help the strikers’ wives and
youngsters. But the rattle of collection-
boxes and the whirl of chocolate wheels did
no damage to the soldiers’ effort. The club
was so crammed with visitors that the stall-
holders could hardly get to their till for
change of a note. Commandant Lee, having
paid a warm tribute to the haven, Dr. Frank
Pockley (president) flung a posy at Dr.
Mary Booth, founder of the club and mother
of every lad in khaki who uses the place as
a home. She wasn’t there to collect the
bouquet. Overwork and a tussle with influ-
enza have laid her up in a Killara hospital.
But the good news wag ’phoned, and the
War Chest's cheque for £lOO was tonic to
the invalid. Altogether about £5O0 —possi-
bly more—falls into the locker from the
day’s piracy.
Saturday evening was the pinnacle of a
heat wave, and the poorly-ventilated Con-
servatorium was breathless. A huge audi-
ence meekly sweltered. while the Verbrug-
ghen-Goll recital tossed three Beethoven
sonatas to the welkin. Under the air-less
balcony a few daring souls crackled their
programmes like small pea-rifle shots; but
the Conservatorium master, far away in the
mystic valleys of the Kreutzer Sonata, paid
no heed. Even the applause between the
acts, so to speak, evoked no signs of wrath.
Verbrugghen hugged his violin tighter and
prepared for fresh triumphs. Goll, who
looks more like a high-toned native bear each
year, played exquisitely.
Dentist George Slate gave his only chick,
Ida, to Dr. Nicholas Strahorn in St.
Stephen’s, which was trimmed with lilies for
the occasion. The ’groom’s father, the late
Hugh Strahorn, was a well-known Narro-
mine squatter. The duties of bridesmaidens
Rita Buckland and Hill were light, as the
leading lady had no tangled train to fuss
with. She wore a tailored suit of white
summer cloth.
Colonel Phipps. D.S.O.—he landed on Gal-
lipoli a major of the A.M.C.—is en route
home with his wife, after more than two
years of hard work on the Peninsula and in
France. They are taking the calmest wav
home (you can guess which route that is)
and their arrival is not very far off.
The Claude Leplastriers, of Neutral Ihiv
have lost a son in France. A day or two
before the news came father was gaily doing
a lightning sketch at an artists’ party,
“When our boys come home from the war.’’
Another of the llight family who have
swarmed to the Front fell in France on
September 24. He was Sergeant John
Cadell Dight, a fifth son of the late John of
Boonal, Macintyre liiver.
Secretary Cropper in extenuation: —
I notice that “Vandorian” (B. 11/10/’l7) states
that “the A.J.C. with characteristic snobbishness
slammed the door of the so-called official pen upon
them” —evidently referring to the refusal of the
committee to issue tickets to lady correspondents
of newspapers, which would give them access to the
official stand. I desire to say that the new portion
of this stand was erected for revenue purposes, and
those persons who wish to occupy it have to pay,
even holders of members’ ladies’ metal badges. Lady
correspondents have access to the Members’ Stand
in fact, they have all the privileges that the ordi-
nary metal badge, which is issued to members, con-
fers on their lady friends.
As to which lot me repeat that the dress-
writers don’t mind. It’s the women who
wear the unrecorded race-frocks an the
official stand that do all the minding.
In the kindness of their hearts the Vaga-
bonds. who have made nearly £2OOO for
patriotic funds, staged “The Magistrate” for
several nights in St. James’s Hall. Then
came a bolt from the Melbourne blue: a
stern wire demanding royalties on each per-
formance 1 . I think £5 a night. Next time
the Tags, will make sure that there isn't a
clutching hand attached to their productions.
Mrs. Ilotham is pushing “The Geisha”
into her best frock. She'll start at the Reper-
tory on October 2!). Each night a different
Cause will send its representatives to count
the cash.
The District Nightingales—you’ll see them
everywhere in their blue cotton frocks and
white hats—had their annual corroboree in
St. James’s llall the other night. Dr. Clubbe
took the best chair. They trudge in all
weathers through the crowded backwoods of
Redfern, Woolloomooloo, Surry Hills and
Miller's Point, to tend the poor who have
fallen by the way. The war hits their sup-
porters, so there’s to be a fete at Cranbrook
in a few months to gild the 1918 balance-
sheet.
Killed in action Herbert Ilendy-Pooley, of
the Registrar-General’s Department, and son
of the Hendy-Pooleys of South Head.
Though very near the nn-military age, he felt
at last that he must give a hand, and his
passing-over leaves a widow and six children
mourning’.
This is the Gift age. By way of getting a
start with the furnishing of the ex-Deanery.
now a Chapter House, there was a gaitered
house-warming the other afternoon. Mrs.
Wright and her Arehbish., just down from
a quiet week at Wentworth Falls, were in
charge.
More tokens of esteem going round.
Bishop Pain, the melancholy-looking Gipps-
land prelate—he used to shepherd a Darling-
hurst flock —got a thumping cheque from his
Sale sheep as a farewell gift. The Pains
come back to Sydney in a few days.
This town, which has been called all sorts
of things that are vain and frivolous, ought
to pull itself up and wear a Solemn counten-
ance forthwith, it seethes with bishops —
and archbishops. Melbourne’s gaiters, Dr.
Clarke, the evergreen Donaldson of Banana-
land, and a prelate from Papua. Dr. Sharp,
are housed this week at Bishopseourt. where
Sydney’s Anglican Apron says grace.
Yours alTectionately,
VANDORIAN.


9 9
and
" A lovely one! ”
m
a
*
3K
f
P
SB
m
ifs *;**A’X* !^ *'- '*••% V •*?>.!•« sy?-’ %*/:
Y^s&msmf44m
'■iT'JhV'
\iA'i
o
S<;
:Wi!!
w£w
?j(
&&
v v c
■ft
>J
m
P«swm>S
£«K
isr-^«
Si .
y> ‘ 4 w^mmmm^77^t
£ , sc ® rrcw fci'&SS
BLACK&wH fc>J
M» "'-•••■'■■■■ P&*
W>. ?.*?■>.•:’?•*• it'a' _ J.rAxl
SCfITCH VfMtaKV
il arKnwHim
’£%***>■'*
fc£7 frfivi
“•j
- ><«.-., 2.-\i >.
|pS®i
£p
< . ;
tp#Vv^
mmiims
s»#wJ
TO:: ■.si’L\Si
7
?•: ..
\' , j; i .i^"
7 /
/Cfejpfe(
I f\ M&Mm&W'M
Ms
i-*:<: l i*v
s:^
•is... •»
\
just#?
> V'*ij 1 i.
'-■jjt
■V *
:- -' J i***
/A- -• r;V't,<, ;"-*-i,. 1 ' H '.ii V'.'V,j!.'' W
£
%
.w‘4
• : -?'v ?V.r ; 'iVS« e '7;:^: ; ;'3-yr
> . ,•. *V» **„ - ;.V V • #//.f.>•’<.* %*♦.* .-* w A - *.V V-*v* P^T.W^
!zs k£;sj&
"7*.. j J v. -y'-H-'vi.r hZMk
riv v .?v.r
J.'VSST^Hi
WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO.
LTD.


<•
%
£
FU2
FU4
m
V
w
DAINTY
HANDBAGS
FUI. —NEW STYLE HANDBAG, in brown, grey,
or tan leather, with smart trimming of black patent
or Yichette leather; fitted purse and mirror.
PRICE 25/-
FU2 . —SMART BAG, in green or blue beaver calf
leather, inside swing pocket and hanging mirror.
PRICE . 15/-
FU3.— SMART TAFFETA SILK BAG, in navy,
black, violet and saxe blue. PRICE.... 15/6
FU4.— SMART BAG in black dull Morocco
leather, fitted with purse and mirror.
PRICE 16/6
FUS.~ MOIRE SILK HANDBAG, in black or
navy, fitted with inside pocket and mirror.
PRICE 13/6
FF6,— VISITING PI’RSE, in black leather,
fitted with mirror. Splendid value.
PRICE 7/6
Pitt, Market and George. Streets, Sydney.
el tom an
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning g Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDOTS
.AGENCIES • ALE • OVER • THP. • WORLD
The Hot Winds
Blow Cool for You
when you wear
A Cool-cloth Suit.
BUCKLEY’S
Have One for You.
A “FLORIDA CLOTH" SOMMER SUIT
Light, Airy, Cool and Comfortable.
Tailored well and smartly; will wash
without wrinkling or shrinking in the
slightest. An ideal fabric for business
or holiday wear. Made in all sizes in
many attractive patterns.
PRICE 55/-
Also provided in dark and mid. grey
Tropical Worsteds, “CRAYENETTE”
showerproof finished, very suitable for
business wear in the hot months.
PRICE, 63/-, 70/- anti 75/-
Also in a superfine quality of Tropical
Worsted at 110/-
WHEN ORDERING BY MAIL state
height, chest and waist measurements
over vest.
YOU HAVE A DEFINITE
GUARANTEE of “Money back if not
satisfied” when you order from
Buckley’s by Post. We will be
pleased to answer all letter enquiries.
WRITE TO US TO-NIGHT.
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, October 22, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.- —
This year ruined Caulfield Cup day’s
splendid-weather reputation. The wind blew
a hurricane and the rain rained like —well,
like the peacocks said it did. The last race
could not be seen through the downpour, and
it was heartbreaking to watch herds of
fashionable bronze boots paddling to their
doom.
The Governors’ box was empty as usual,
and inter-State visitors were few. The Dick
Hawkers were over from Adelaide, Mrs. Dick
in navy tailorings. Mrs. Derby (she was a
Crozier), also from Adelaide, was in navy
and a gold-tissue hat. Bananaland was
represented by Mrs. Molyneux Parltes and
her daughter, the latter enclosed in an
organdie frock under a fur coat. She was
taking no chances on the climate. The Clive
Leonards were in smart tailor rig —hers
almost as masculine as hubby’s. Mrs. Dan
Taylor’s deb. daughter made a sortie in a
smart blue uniform. Her blue-black hair
has just recently been furled.
Eric Connolly, I’m told, made thousands
(from £lO,OOO to £20,000, or less, or per-
haps even more) over Bronzetti’s win. His
pretty little wife looked demurely satisfied
from under a duck of a hat. A girl of the
Philip Morton clan grew nearly hysterical
when the favorite sailed home. The Charlie
flights, from Albury; Mrs. Percy Laidlaw,
from Hamilton; Mrs. Russell Gabb; the
Sam Mackays (how they tossed their hats
over Bronzetti’s win!); Mrs. Canadian
Roger Thompson, and Mrs. and Miss Etcetera
made up a gay if moistened scene.
The Rajah wore half an acre of goloshes
and his Ranee topped a smart dark outfit with
a blue and white tric-troc toque. Mamma
Fink was on hand. Leslie Stuart, back from
Sydney quite fit again, had as escort Mrs.
Stuart, decorated with a big hat fashionably
bashed in the crown. The Justice Isaacs
family were out for the day, mamma and
daughter vieing with each other in remark-
able footwear. The Harold Hunts did a
regular lawn parade. He sported a huge red
rose in his coat and she wore garments com-
posed of blue and chrome yellow set off with
a hat of Paisley silk mixed with red.
Cyril Maude had a great house for Cup
night. The rain so thundered down that
sometimes for minutes not a word of “Col.
John Regan” could be heard. The worst
spell was during the rowdy committee scene.
While the audience could see the tenseness
of the throats of the men, shouting their
lines, their voices sounded no louder than a
mere whisper. Maude at last flung himself
back in his chair, threw up his arms and
shouted with laughter. A sudden lull in the
storm let the cat out of the sack that the
players were “gagging” shamefully.
In the curtain-raiser, “School for Scan-
dal,” Cyril wore adorable clothes. His silk
leg-envelopes were moss green with gold
clocks; heels and shoe-tongues were red;
the weskit and knee breeches, a dull black
brocaded silk ; and the coat, green velvet—a
lovely vision to be turned down by Lady
Teazle. Dorothy Cumming (Lady T.) was
frocked in shell pink, with the regulation
black velvet hat and white plumes.
Cyril ivlaude annoyed first-nighfers (who
are as conservative as the Labor party) by
putting on “General John Regan” on a
Wednesday instead of on the regulation
Saturday. It was quite unsettling and
everybody said, “See what comes of having
a first night in the middle of the w-eek !” A
mere race crowd filled the stalls, amongst
them the Merson Coopers, the Barry
Thompsons and Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, with
her warm auburn hair. Consul Eles and
his flapper daughter had the Danish Consul-
General in their box. The Geoffrey Symes
also decorated a pen. Betty Murray, under-
study to Dorothy Cumming (who went to
bed with a headache after her experiences
with Grumpy), brightened the evening. She
has, amongst other incidentals, a charming
back; she shows it without extra charge
when her pink dress won’t button in time
for the statue ceremony.
Rita Hope, at the piano, and the decora-
tive Carmen Delprat, with her violin, drew
a crowd of highbrows to the Assembly Hall
one night last week. This was the Delprat
lady’s last appearance before she marries.
The box-office money went to swell the
State War Council Amelioration Fund.
A frocky little visitor, Mrs. Willie Collins,
of Beaudesert station, near Brisbane, is
adorning Melbourne. She has brought with
her popular Sydneysider May Milne, who
instructs the children of the idle rich to
pirouette properly and eat an ice or a
meringue without gulping. The two inter-
Staters have been feted quietly behind the
drawn blinds of Toorak.
The Rajah and his Ranee, just back from
Sydney, are making still another move. This
time they are installing themselves at a
Lister House flat. The new baby seemed
to have a grudge on the Oriental.
New City Mayor Stapley is fixing up
professional offices (he’s an architect), and
breaking the news in huge gilt lettering upon
the windows. The rooms are directly oppo-
site the Town Hall, so that in ordinary
business hours, at any rate, he may keep
an eye on the Town Clerk and the weigh-
bridge.
Wallscourt Kelly, son of Aloysius and
nephew of Bowes, was mentioned in des-
patches the other month. It was for “gal-
lant conduct in recent operations near Bulle-
court,” which sounds like something with
promotion in its tail. Height has its advan-
tages as well as its drawbacks in war. A
very short soldier might be unobservedly
gallant. Wallscourt Kelly couldn’t. No
commanding-officer could possibly overlook
him.
The Robert Rymills, who threw wide their
Toorak house, Pevensey, for a French Red
Cross rally, netted £2OO. She was one of
the squatting Riddochs, of South Aus. A
sister, unmarried, helped to hostess the
party. It was quite an affair. The Fair-
bairn women, the Grice dame, Mrs. Syme,
Mrs. Ledingliam, Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke, Mrs.
Langlands Thompson, and others too numer-
out to remember were in the throng.
Lady Helen Ferguson is taking measures
to have a strong light kept upon Red Cross
work since the trouble over the “ballroom
goods.” The society held its annual meeting
in the Town Hall the other day—-a great
affair, with top-side mandarins all over the
dais, upon which was the throne of their
Excellencies. Bunches of nurses in white,
with the scarlet cross over their hearts,
made the organ-loft a thing of beauty. Lady
Helen, in a black tulle mob cap, with a
Rajah’s jewel set in the front, spoke vehe-
mently. She announced a monster Red Cross
Day, which is to be held simultaneously
throughout Australia six months hence.
An evening meeting followed a great par-
ade of nurses and Y.A.D.’s at Government
House. It was a fetching review. A select
tea-party provided the tail-piece.
Alas! That cheque for £2OOO which the
women of the Soldiers’ Refreshment Stall
at the Base Hospital. St. Kilda-road, were
supposed to have received, turns out to be
a myth. So they want £2OOO more from
other people. As a matter of fact, these
devoted women (Mrs. Deakin their leader)
handled only about £1954 in money in
the past 12 months, and there was £399 to
be paid to the tobacconist out of that and
£231 for milk, not to speak of the pastry-
cook and the grocer and the butcher. But
even then they managed to find a pound or
tw-o now and again to pay battered Billjim’s
laundry bill and otherwise help him out of
the pit.
The local Greeks had a patriotic evening
at the Masonic Hall last week, and Alexander
and Demetrios rolled up like one waiter.
Consul Maniachi, who led the revels, auc-
tioned flags in attic Greek and received en-
thusiastic responses in the basement brand
of the same language. There were also
dances by Cretans, and a descendant of Xeno-
phon leapt wildly on a mythical foe. The
supper happened in the middle and was
nearly a failure owdng to the crowd showing
a natural tendency to avoid the onerous job
of guest. The programme broke up in dis-
order, but someone explained that it was a
Greek drama. During the evening Esther
Paterson kept Civilisation’s end up with a
set of neat songs, and the French pianist,
Alix La Mande. stroked the piano until it
purred Chopin beautifully.
Adelaide’s little bundle :
The Agricultural Society made a profit on the Sep-
tember Show of £585, and shared it thus: £l5O
each to the Red Cross and the Y.M.C.A., £lOO each
to the Trench Comforts Fund and the Navy League,
the remaining £B5 amongst those societies in the
same proportion. The R.A.S. is so jubilated that
next year will probably see the autumn show
restored.
The Soldiers’ Home League indulged in an annual
meeting on Monday, and proved to the congregation
that it had done a year’s good work. The Home is
lucky in having, as honorary matron, Mrs. Alson,
whose husband is at the Front. A Button Day and
a donation of £lOOO from the South Aus. Lutheran
War Relief Fund paid off the mortgage on the pro-
perty in May last.
This is a record year for roses; consequently the
show at the Town Hall on Thursday was the best to
date. Lady Galway opened the exhibition with
characteristic deftness. Roses, she said, were like
the Australian character—they bloomed notwithstand-
ing the weather and other difficulties. Wasn’t that
sweet of her 1 .
News has come from England of the death o
Margaret, the eldest sister of Dr. Gault, who died a
few weeks ago. .
G. W. Halcombe, children’s magistrate, is to be
S.M. at Wallaroo in succession to the late J. T.
Keats.
The Town Planning Conference has unloosed on us
nearly 300 inter-State delegates, and some contro-
versy as to whether Adelaide has any slums. On
Wednesday delegates were welcomed by the Mayor
at the Town Hall, with Chief Sec. Styles as spokes-
man for the Government. In the afternoon the
corroboree was officially set going at the Exhibition
Building. Premier Peake was in the chair —and our
own and the Victorian Excellency and the Confer-
ence’s president—J. D. Fitzgerald of the N. S.
Wales Ministry—were the speakers. Amongst the
diversions have been a Commonwealth Club luncheon,
a visit to the park lands and Botanic Gardens and a
motor-trip to the hills, with afternoon-tea at the
Langdon Bonythons’ Mount Lofty house, and a visit
to Edward Stirling’s famous garden near the Mount
Lofty station. On Tuesday the G.-G. is to make a
brief appearance, arriving by the morning’s express
and leaving again the same afternoon.
The Stanleys left us on Friday. A couple of
dinners at Government House and the Town Planning
Conference were the only notable items during the
week they spent here.
Col. John Corbin, who was with the Ist Australian
Casualty Station at Gallipoli, and afterwards in
charge of the 3rd Australian Casualty Station in
France, has got back to private practice here.
Pte. W. A. Wells, a son of the late C. F. Wells,
the explorer who was lost in the Calvert Expedition
in Westralia, has been killed in France.
Major Johnson, the expert who reported on the
river Murray improvements, has got a colonelcy and
command of a regiment of Uncle Sam’s engineers.
They were bound for the Front soon after he wrote.
I don’t suppose you have forgotten Ruby
Moore, the pretty, fair girl, keen on physi-
cal culture and amateur acting, who, on
returning from her first visit to England,
tried to introduce folk-dancing into the State
schools? You do remember her? Thanks.
Well, I have just got word of her marriage
in London to Lieut. Donald Alsop. You
may remember him, too —in the days before
khaki became fashionable he was Gregan
McMahon’s most valuable exponent of hand-
some-hero parts. The marriage took place
when Donald managed to get a fortnight’s
spell from his job in the trenches.
Bosky Alphington woke up when Mrs.
Ililder. the quiet and retiring little widow of
the sadly-missed artist, gave a kiddies’ party-
in honor of her two boys, Bim and Bret.
The cottage which perches on the brow of
Fairy Hills, looking out over Darebin Creek,
was the scene of the outing.
The William Harpers’ boy has been
bowled over in the latest fighting. He was
killed in France.
Sporting pals and the Orient office mourn
Lieut. “Jerry” Joynt, killed in action. Jerry
was an Elsternwick boy and a grandson of
Dr. Bones, a noted early Melbourne practi-
tioner. He leaves a young wife and baby-
girl. His only brother is still on the trail
of the shifting Ilun.
Widower Rupert Nicholson has quietly-
taken to himself a second wife —Miss Alice
Dodd, of Melbourne. His first wife was
Katie Bliss, daughter of auctioneer Alfred
Bliss. Rupert figures in aldermanic circles,
and was Mayor of P’ran at one time.
Harry Corbett Leo Shelton, LL.M., bar-
rister. son of the late Henry Shelton, 8.A.,
is booked for marriage with little Ivy Cooper
Lamb, the sweet daughter of the late John
Lamb, of Ascot Yale. The young man used
to batch with his brother, Dr. Grantley,
until the latter settled down in wedlock with
Nurse Kelly. See what good example does in
a family !
The.Nyulasy miss, in becoming pale-blue
draperies, hostessed a tea frivol, which added
a good stockingful to the fund for provision-
ing a sweet-stall at the Repatriation carni-
val. Assistant-Minister Lit. Groom unwound
himself on the repatriation puzzle at great
length, but I confess to being as wise as
ever. Two delightful warbles by Fan Dango
Mackay, who dimpled alluringly in biscuit-
colored fixings, and the violin playing of
Isabel Langlands brightened the proceedings.
The widow Staughton’s youngest chick,
who gold-looped with the Byron Moores’
youngest son Eric, is expected back next
month, after a three years’ stay in Siam.
Hubby manages a tin-mine there.
L. A. Adamson, of Wesley, is allowing the
boys to produce “The Headmaster” again.
They have done it twice before with much
success. This time the takings go to help
the St. Kilda Patriotic Carnival. St. Kilda
Town Hall, Thursday, October 25.
The Hospitals League of Mercy will hold
a bazaar on Friday, November 9, under the
guidance of Mrs. Staughton and Mrs. Wil-
liams. Funds are wanted badly even though
the actual work is all carried out voluntarily.
Melbournians returned from showing their
clothes and losing their coin at Sydney
Spring races tell of a new and artistic tea-
and-lunch room over there. “The Mary
Elizabeth” has the names of two CWn*.
Mary of England and Elizabeth of Belgium
It is the enterprise of Mrs. F. Aronson' well
known in journalism and war work. ’
There was a bridge “jag” at Cliveden last
week to raise the wind for the Boulogne Hos
pital. (Boulogne, you may have heard £
in France.) Ur. Helen Sexton was in the
party, not to play bridge—she snorts at the
game and scorns the “bridge face”— but be
cause she worked at the Boulogne institution
for a time and knows how worthy it is 0 f
help. Thousands of our Billjims are passing
through it. Mrs. Crevelh was a hawker of
sweets for the occasion, while her damdiw
worked a raffle pitch. Mrs. L. g;«
Mackinnon, Mrs. Walter Manifold, Mrs Fred
Fairbairn and Mrs. Howard Smith traded
from tables. Mrs. du Bavay and Mrs Leslie
Macdonald (in black, with a fashionable
squashed belltopper) also lent a hand. Tea
one time a popular dissipation, was to be
had at a price. You slipped into the dining-
room and got it.
A depot will be opened on October 29 and
will remain open until November 3. for the
sale of goods contributed by workers for the
Australian Friendless Soldiers Abroad Com-
forts Fund. Go to 185 Collins-street opno
site the Town Hall. Admiral Creswell’s
wife, Mrs. Butledge and Mrs. Clyde Norton
are working up the attack.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


m
ir
£ V
mm
m
P* KMW
■
~. -
1 ■:’. 1*
i «; ra
I
*■*■;■ sk
' 0 :»
>■
i 1 W
M
■
r
H
-
M"
b
mssm
w**
V
48*
► f
A
*s.
SSsK?*,;
"
I ESSH
ii ,;Bt -
tC^'^k-v
%
Gen Sir Douglas Haig
k4l|
Copyright Watson’s Wo. 1U WhisUy.
Hi
i
fral
ocmo
%
o, 'dJcotdi 7t'h^
\
Duridpa
ml
mm.
wm
wmm
m
wm
m
m
mm
mW,
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above por.rait of General Sir Douglas Haig is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, Lieut.-General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter 1., General Sarrail, General Erussilcff, General
Russky, will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or 12 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
TAxMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 Kin* Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £1,500,000
Subscribed Capital (50,000 £lO Shares) .. .. .. .. 500,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
Reserve Inability of Proprietors
£400,000
58,182
5:0,000
Total Capital and Reserves
£998,182
WILLIAM
Hon. Sir ALBERT J. GOULD, K.B.
Hon. THOS. WADDELL, M.L.C.
Auditors: JOHN WAUGH, T. B. FRITH.
Chief Inspector: WM. CLARKE.
Accountant: J. E. MACKINTOSH.
Chairman.
A. A. C. COCKS, M.L.A.
H. C. L. ANDERSON, M.A.
Acting General Manager: J. S. MARKS.
Secretary; R. T. MOODIE.
Solicitors : Messrs. LEIBIUS, BLACK & WAY.
Directors:
DIXSON,
HEAD OFFICE: IG6 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Branches and Agencies in New South Wales. Agents in New Zealand and Fiji: The Bank of New
Zealand: Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia: The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.;
Queensland: The Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Drafts drawn on and cable remittances made direct to Foreign Places. Letters of Credit issued,
negotiable throughout the world. Foreign Bills negotiated and collected. Drafts issued on San
Francisco and New York in dollars or sterling.
King GeorgelV
the TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
"Sol”: I bad been trying some rough
country between Bright and Bairnsdale, and getting
down the hills away beyond Cassilis was rooted
out of camp one night by a storm that simply
bowled me down the range, and flung my traps after
me. I was too knocked about to do much good for
myself, and spent the best part of next day hunting
out help. It was getting on for five in the after-
noon when I struck an old battery track, and later
found Maephillamy’s Inn. Macphillamy’s Inn looked
like two fowlhouses that had been brought together
in a storm. A sort of limp verandah was tied up
to the front, and from this a sign proclaimed the
glad tidings—“ Licensed to Sell Drinks —Meals and
Beds.” I went in. Macphillamy, who was sitting
in the bar-room, said I could have the spare bed-
room presently. Meanwhile there were bread, bottled
beer and a misshapen, unidentifiable hunk of boiled
mutton. I dined, and attended to my poor feet
and other damages, and Macphillamy hung round
thinking. He was a deep and persistent thinker.
He was too busy thinking all day to keep the mice
out of his whiskers. I wanted bed and wanted it
badly, but Macphillamy’s cogitation was still in the
way. At nine I said: “You said I could have the
spare bedroom?” Macphillamy nodded. “Well, I'll
be turning in,” I said. Mac almost woke up. “You
can’t just yet,” said he. “Why can’t I?” I had
been put off several times and was hurt. Macphil-
lamy dug in his chin-hair and was silent. “Why
can’t I?” I repeated. “Y’can’t,” said Macphillamy,
“till we’ve buried the missus!” I slept out again.
For two days the late Mrs. Macphillamy had been
lying in the spare bedroom awaiting burial.
* * # *
“Pab”: I’ve seen some peculiar graves
in my travels, but one I came across on a farm
near Geelong takes -the wreath. It was only about
2ft. by 9in., but it had its iron railing and flower
bed all complete. On inquiry I found that it was
the last resting place of the cocky’s forearm, which
had been amputated after a shooting accident. The
family had given it a decent burial in a miniature
oak coffin ! I heard a yarn at another place about
a woman who had been separated from one of her
legs, which she had buried in her own graveyard lot,
so that it will be handy when the last trump
sounds.
* * * *
“J.N.A.”: “Leo Lear” (B. 30/8/TT) asks
if mutton-birds are found further west than Portland
(Vic.). If he strikes out due nor’-west from the
old whaling station, and keeps on going for 700
miles he will (in season, of course) find them in
thousands on the Nuyts Archipelago, off the West
Coast of S. Australia. They are practically undis-
turbed, the few eggs taken yearly making no appre-
ciable difference to their numbers. These islands
are a sportsman’s paradise for other sea-bird life,
and have been so for generations, as the quantities
of guano there prove.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Re “Bill R.” and
his McLaughlan River farmer’s method of growing
potatoes so that Jack Frost is euchred. The scheme
was introduced into the splendid gardens attached
to the Yass (N.S.W.) district school years ago by
the then headmaster, E. Dash, B.A. During my
divagations through the beautiful and beloved Yass-
Gundagai district, I tried in vain to get farmers at
Rye Park, Mardering Gully, Howell’s Creek and
many other ’tater centres to give it a trial, but in
vain. Wirewhiskers, when appealed to to try a small
patch, said that he was too busy battling with bunny
or wrestling with Reynard to fiddle with fads.
Many men on the land regard any method that was
not practised by Cain and other early tillers as a fad.
“Te Babarantiko”: “H. 1.0.” (B.
27/9/’l7) has been misled. The natives of the Gil-
bert and Ellice Groups do not take their captive
frigate-birds “from island to island in canoes and
liberate them like homing pigeons;” The Equa-
torial sea-eagle or frigate-bird is snared in his
wanderings from the uninhabited, treeless Eporadis
to the east, along the equator, but never in any
numbers. Little taming is required, and I have
been impressed with the birds’ fearlessness of man.
They do not fly freely about the villages. When not
hunting outside the surf the frigate-bird sits in
austere immobility on his wooden perch above the
beach. No restraint is placed on these great birds,
although they invariably, obedient to the homing-
call, return to their distant, sun-scorched sandbanks
on the lonely reefs, usually never to return.
LATEST, BUT NOT LAST.
“Heard the latest?”
“Yes.”
“Go on, have you? When?”
“Been hearing nothing else all the d—d day from fellows I meet.”
HER AMBITION.
LADY: “What is your aim in life, my good woman?"
G. WOMAN: “Me ’usband gen'rally.”
‘“W.A.M.”: Of course ant-hills make good
ovens. They were extensively used in the early days
of Gympie (Q.), and quite recently ant-bed, instead
of fireclay, was used in the construction of the big-
gest baker’s-oven in Maryborough. The man who
wrote that ant-bed wouldn't stand fire must have
been thinking of white-ants’ nests, or paraffin, or
something.
“Koreki”: “O’Regan” (B. 20/8/17)
needn’t be uneasy. The English naturalist who
told him about the Papuan spider’s web strong
enough to be used as a native fishing-net wasn’t
pulling his leg. I have seen the webs used, but
cannot vouch for them holding a 21b. fish. But I
have seen 141 b. and lib. fish caught in them. The
nets are formed like miniature lacrosse racquets.
The native just dives into the deep hole, holding a
net in either hand, catches the fish with one and
closes the opening with the other. The catch is
thrown on to the bank where the nigger’s best girl
is waiting.
* * » *
“Hamer”: Some fine samples of family
sweating have been brought to light during appeals
for exemption from war-service in Britain. In one
case a Somerset farmer wanted exemption for his
son, single, 26, and Class A, and when asked what
qualifications he would require in a substitute, sub-
mitted this list: Ability to lamb 60 ewes. Look
after 160 sheep. Attend to foot-rotting. Shear with
a machine. Run oil-engine and machinery. Do
minor repairs. Drill wheat and roots. Keep the
books. Milk 10 cows twice daily. Refrigerate the
milk. Consign it to London. Keep the dairy book-.
Make cider. Prune apple trees. Make and thatch
hay and corn ricks. Calve 35 to 40 cows. Super-
intend farm. Direct the staff, if necessary. Work
from 5.45 a.m. to 10 p.m. in summer. Work all
night if necessary in lambing and calving season. He
admitted that the substitute should be paid “a little
pocket-money, besides nis keep and clothes,” so you
can guess what sort of a wicket the son was on!
One of the agricultural members on the Board said
this was ‘‘no more than nine out of 10 farmers’ sons
ought to do”! I reckon that the Class A young
man would look upon a period in France as a
holiday.
“Captnin” : The k’tls of a village by name
of A gab Mazung (New Guinea) make a perfect
spinning-top from a round red bean about the size
of a florin. Through the centre of this a stick an
eighth of an inch wide and six inches long is placed.
On the top side it projects 41 inches, and at the
bottom i sharpened to a fine point, one inch. The
upper part of the bean is decorated with a tiny
piece of shell in the centre, and from it yellow
marks run nearly to the outside edge, where there
is a border of red. The top is spun by rubbing the
long portion of the stick smartly to and fro be-
tween the palms and then letting go on any hard
surface. Have timed them spin for half a minute,
the effect of the decorations being very pretty, in
three circles of white, yellow and red. Who gave
’em the idea?
(Continued on par/e 24 )
FIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Comrade of the wide ways, stranger from afar,
Prisoned in a lueifer or sleeping in a star,
What the wanderer owes to you all the ages know,
Since Prometheus snatched the spark from Heaven
long ago:
Light flame, bright flame,
Leaping from the ground,
Bringing warmth and dreams to men all the world
around.
When upon the far tracks the sons of Adam roam,
Fire within a small box makes for them a home,
Sleeping by the river-bend, camping on the plain,
With nothing but some blackened coals to show
where they have lain ;
Old fires, cold fires,
Mark the winding tracks
Of those who wander outwards with their swags
upon their backs.
Timbers for the fire-god form a broken bridge;
Lignum in the black swamps, mulga on the ridge,
Box-trees on the sticky flats, saltbush in the sand,.
And spinifex and camel-dung in Never-Never land—
Dead wood, red wood,
Feeds the living flame
That marks the fire-god’s passage on the roads with-
out a name.
Never yet was home built, roof and walls and floor,
But owed its greatest comfort to the wooclheap by
the door ;
Stringy-bark for kindling, ironbark for heat,
When before a roaring stove a woman cooks the
meat:
Burning, turning
(Since the world began),
Raw and bleeding flesh of beasts to provender for
man.
Never yet was bush-child on a hearth-rug curled
But blazing logs could show it all the wonders of
the world ;
There in glowing caverns the prince of horsemen
ride,
With Starlight and Thunderbolt and hundreds more
beside:
Lean men, keen men.
Riding to their doom,
Through the burning forests that light the darkened
loom.
Softly sings the kettle that swings upon its hook;
Mother darns the stockings. and father reads his
book ;
Gran’fer in the, ingle-nook wags his bearded chin
Telling how at Christmas-time they brought the
Yule-log in—
Long pulls, strong pulls
Hauling at the sleigh,
In the cold and frozen lands half a world away.
All the race of earth-folk know that fire is good,
Magic dreams and bird-notes are hidden in the
wood ;
V isions of the future, pictures of the past,
Subtly merge and vanish while the glowing embers
last;
Sad tilings, glad things,
Wonder and desire,
Are kindled by the tiny spark that turns the world
to tire.
Comrade of tile wide ways, slave beneath the bare,
Boiling blackened billies or lighting up the stars,
Tame and soft when tended, wild as hell when free,
None shall treat you lightly unless they pay the fee;
Near friend, dear friend,
When your strength is done
Night and frozen stillness shall settle on the sun.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


INDISPENSABLE
Motor Lunch Kits
8 Guineas —at David Jones’
m
•it
1 a iMggr
MMpSsraiir
r
lia*
MR
David Jones’ Motor Lunch Kits are designed like a suit-case, and in this
respect are a great improvement over the usual unsightly and cumber-
some hamper. Economy in space and durability are the salient features,
and the kits are practically dust-proof.
Food boxes are of liberal dimensions, cutlery is of high grade, enamel-
ware can be depended on not to chip unless very roughly handled, and
liquid retainers are the best procurable, guaranteed to keep liquids
piping hot or icy cold for 48 hours.
Specification.—Case has three-ply veneer foundation, covered black
enamel waterproof canvas, lined washable check lining, 8 leather-capped
corners, leather handle, sliding-nozzle lever lock. Six each silver-plated
knives, forks and spoons; six best enamel cups and plates; one food
tin in two compartments, salt and pepper shaker, preserve jar and two
highest-quality vacuum flasks.
Size: 21 x 15 x 6 inches. Price, 8 Guineas.
Other Qualities—6 Guineas, 10 Guineas, 11 Guineas, 13£ Guineas.
TT’e Pay Carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD.
OPP. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
— -X
***** * ' f- 5 ■!»!)«,» '• 1
> •
*
mz
i6aPrrrsr
SYDNEY
Guaranteed Freak aad to contain no Preservative
:;On,
This Confectionery was manufactured pt
? A iff. IQ|7 *J* r
If conditions beyond our control have rendered rt ««»
] we request Uw*«*«"» * he ? acka * e
i ;>ndthi».guan»qt^*hpt»^kyP^P 0 » L
After supplying information requested on reverse s>de
giad i ce same,
ERNEST HIIXfER, 162 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.
MOTE
the date of manufacture
If imported. Chocolates had the date that they were mad
stamped on the box, you would never eat them.
“Ernest Hillier*' Chocolates are shipped to you on the day
they are made.
Packed onlv in Red Boxes. Made in Australia,
Price : 3 5 66,106. 15 25/-
PoM free to any address in Australia.
Split-Sleeve
ives correct Set to Cuffs always)
( rtegd .)
j HhiHttT
6 re
(3 for I8'9)
Made by and obtainable only
from the Leviathan. They are
designed with the following
shirt “extras” :
1. “SPLIT-SLEEVES”—which give
correct set to cuffs always (see
illustration).
2. SLEEVE “LIFTS”—to regulate the
“just right” sleeve length (see
illustration).
3. REINFORCED INLAY FRONTS—
which DOUBLE THE LIFE of
each shirt.
‘‘T AFP AT WILL’ ' has the ap-
pearance of the most beautiful
Wool Taffeta. It can be had in
Blue, Black. Grey or Brown —
striped effects on rich cream
grounds. “TAFFATWILL”
Shirts are made in three styles
of Cuffs —Soft-double, Stiff or
Wristbands, with button and
link holes. Sizes 13 to IS in.
neckbands.
2 inch inlay
of materia!
5* fi
«■
Sleeve
lifts
Split sleeve
Notice the
Set of cuff
LADIES’“TAFFATWILL” SHIRT BLOUSES
Made in our own Workrooms (by a specially-organised
staff of EXPERT SHIRT-MAKERS) from “Taffatwill,”
the same famous Shirting as used in our Men's Shirts.
Smart Blue, Black or Grey, striped effects, on rich
cream grounds. Style as illustrated —with attached
“Peter Pan” Collar; Patch Pocket; Soft Double Cuffs ;
“SPLIT SLEEVES”; V ents at sides ;
Yoke shoulders and centre pleat at back.
Don! ly sewn and beautifully finished. ALL
SIZES (S.W., W., and 0.5.)
7/6
(3 for 21/9)
WIDE-END SILK POPLIN TIES —for
wean'ii" with Shirt Blouses. Colors: Blue, Black, Brown
or Grey 2/6 each.
SLEEVE LINKS in various shapes and de-
signs 1/6, 2/- pair.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
THE LEVIATHAN,
MELBOURNE.
10=1NCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
31- each
BRITISH-MADE
Records^
12=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/- each
COLUMBIA SUPPLEMENT No. 29.
CLARA BUTT, Contralto.
12-inch, Single-Sided, 7/6.
7141 O Lovely Night (Landon Ronald), Key B flat, with Piano. ’Cello Obligato by
W. H. Squire.
HIPOLITO LAZARO, Tenor.
12-inch, Single-Sided, 15/-
74016 MARTHA: “M’appari” (Ah, so pure) (Flotow). In Italian. With Orchestra.
The Supreme Coloratura Soprano of the Day, MARIA BARRIENTOS.
12-inch, Single-Sided, 15/-
74018 LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR: Rondo e Cadenza (The Mad Scene). (Donizetti.)
In Italian. With Orchestra and Flute Obligato.
SIR HENRY J. WOOD’S ORCHESTRA.
12-inch, Double-Sided, 6/-
1,1125
f Clog Dance—“ Handel in the Strarn.” (Percy A. Grainger),
f Dance of the Apprentices, from “The Meistersingers” (Wagner).
PACHMANN, Pianoforte.
12-inch, Double-Sided, 6/-
L 1124
S Capriccio in C sharp minor (Op. 76, No. 5
} Nocturne in D flat major (Op. 27, No. 2)
(Brahms).
(Chopin).
ELSA STRALIA, Soprano.
12-inch, Single-Sided, 15/-
71014 CAVAIXERIA RUSTICANA: “Voi lo sapete” (Mascagni).
In Italian. With Orchestra.
HUBERT EISDELL, Tenor.
12-inch, Double-Sided, 6/-
1,1130
\ Somewhere a Voice is Calling (A. F.
} Galway by the Sea (Barclay).
Tate).
With Mr. F. B. Kiddle at the Piano.
PABLO CASALS, ’Cello.
12-inch Single-Sided, 7/6.
7142 Uebestraume (Dream of Love) (Liszt). With Orchestra.
ALBERT SAMMONS, W. H. SQUIRE, WILLIAM MURDOCH,
Violin, ’Cello and Piano Trio.
12-inch, Double-Sided, 6/-
1,1126
y Liebesgarten (Schumann)
) Serenade (Widor).
GERVASE EL WES, Tenor.
12-inch, Double-Sided, 6/-
Llll9
f Songs My Mother Taught Me (Dvorak).
{ (a) O Mistress Mine; (b) Fair House of Joy (Roger Qmlter).
KATHLEEN PARLOW, Violin.
) Melodie No. :
t (a) Gavotte i:
12-inch, Double-Sided, 6/-
(Tschaikowsky).
E major (Bach); (b) Serenade in G major (Arensky)
1.1070
• \
637
BAND OF THE GARDE REPUBLICAINE.
12-inch, Double-Sided, 5/-
The Carnival of Venice (with variations). In 2 Parts (Thomas).
10-incli, Double-sided, 3/-
2738
( La Reve Passe. March (G. Krier. arr. G. Pares).
| Le Tout Paris, March (A. Loger).
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Baking House, Ravvson riace. '
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. I
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin’s Tills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, SouthamiLon. —Advt.
MEGGITTS
IJNSEEDOIIMEHI
AEG
PAR(|
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal Gives Great Results.
Vi
A
\
v /
«ii(
##
TESTIMONY OF SATISFIED FARMERS.
SERIES NO. 6.
Mr. A. G. WEBBER Ryde: “I use one bag of meal per fortnight, feeding cows, horses and fowls, and
am obtaining great results.” b ’
Mrs. MM. CLLLEN, Merrylands, says: ‘‘l have been using your Linseed Meal as directed for cows and
poultry, and am well satisfied with the results.”
HOW TO FEED COWS AVTTH MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
Leave your hay ration as it is and give 31b. Linseed Meal and 31b. of bran per day, soaked or dry.
From all Stores, or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane;
P I V Melbourn e; Wm. Adams &Co , Perth; F. W. Heritage &Co , Launceston
and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MLGGITT LTD.
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
26 Kins Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
“Bad Australian”: Most of the ports on
the West Coast of S. America are open roadsteads,
and the methods of loading and discharging live
stock if practised in Australia would fill the gaols.
Some care is exercised in handling mules or horses,
but cattle are treated in exactly the same way as
crate. A noosed rope is dropped over the horns, and
the beast is jerked off its feet, swung out-board and
dropped into a lighter waiting alongside. Sheep,
three and sometimes four in a bunch, are let down
with a run calculated to break every bone in their
carcases; but considering such treatment it is
astonishing how few patients are seriously injured.
It is a common sight to see crippled horses aban-
doned on the trails dying of slow starvation and
their injuries. The procedure in the case of injured
humans is on a par. I have seen injured men left
to die in a crowd when a person with even an ele-
mentary knowledge of first-aid could have saved
them; but nobody is allowed to touch an injured
individual until the police or doctor arrives. When
I was a new-chum in S. America a John Hop who
was quartered on my job got a couple of bullets into
him over a game of “monte,” and our doctor, not
being handy at the moment, I did what I could to
relieve the perforated man, and had just got him
under way for the main-line junction when he passed
out. Two days later his “captain” waited on me,
and after suggesting that my “interference” had
contributed to his subordinate’s death, quoted law- in
support of his action, and read me a lesson that has
stayed with me to this day.
* * * *
“Captain”: Let me introduce a spider
—not a big one for New Guinea. Its
body was about that of a sparrow and its legs
looked as if they’d been loaned from a baby- “eray.”
Across a one-man jungle track it had spun its web,
and as I drew- near w-as busily engaged binding up
a parcel of fresh meat in the way of a gaily winged
fly. Scattered over the web were dozens of young
spiders. The lady (presume it w-as) halted abruptly
in her task when I touched the bottom of her web
with a tw-ig and then things started to move. Rush-
ing to the extreme outside she travelled at express
speed in ever lessening circles rounding up her
family, till finally the lot were “yarded” in a
struggling heap in the centre and she stood at bay
just below them. With the twig I again touched
the w-eb, this time near her, and in a flash she
scrambled on to it and came at me. I promptly'
let go, and the stick hung suspended with her
swinging in the air just above the ground. Up she
hauled herself, did a lightning lap round her young
to see that none had escaped from the fold, and
finally put in some solid graft where the stick had
caught till it fell to the ground. I let it go at that.
“Lantana” : A Bananaland shearer named
Ryan recently barbered 2100 sheep in 11 days. At
the Queensland rate of 30s. per hundred the per-
formance was worth £3l 10s. Know anybody
who’s in as great a hurry as Ryan?
* * * *
“D.D.”: Black people turning white?
(“Yalgun,” B. 4/10/T7). In Bungendore (N.S.W.)
25 years ago there was a daughter of black and
white parents w-ho up to the age of seven was as
black as anv full-blooded abo. Gradually her skin
assumed a lighter hue, and when in her teens her
complexion was as fair as any girl could desire. She
married a white man, and two of her five children
show distinct facial traces of abo. descent. The
only other instance of a black turning white that I
have heard of came from the Garenganza country
of Central Africa, whence a few years since mission-
ary Dan Craw-ford emerged for a w-orld lecturing-tour
after 25 years’ continuous residence. The natives
there affirm (and why shouldn’t they know?) that
man was originally dark-skinned; but w-lien the
eldest son of the first inhabitant killed his brother
the fratricide got such a fright that he turned
permanently pale. Which incident is responsible
for the white races.
THE IMITATORS.
DOMAIN DANIEL: “Ther irimmen are
dressin ’ more 'n' more like has men
every day."
WILFRED PARKER: "Yes! 'They won’t be
'appy until they’re actually wearin' the
same close as loot you ’n’ me has on.”
THE OLD COMPLAINT.
MRS. O'MATIQNY : “ Doehtor, I want some physie for Mike. I t’ink 'tis 'is liver is out
of order.”
DOCTOR: “Has he a dirty tongue of a morning?”
MRS. O’M.: "No, doehtor, lie's ginerally a fair-speakin’ man of a mornin' 'Tis when
he has a few drinks in of a night 'tis the dirrty tongue he has.”
“Nogoaburr”: Is there an inherent in-
stinct towards murder in the Australian abo. ? I
was working a black who had been reared on the
beche-de-mer fisheries from a pic., and bad never
had anything but friendliness shown him. Out
shooting on one oicasion, I w-as about to take the
lead through a narrow passage, when Paddy stopped
me with this: “You no walk longa front black mm in
bush. He see white man' longa front he wanta kill.
You let black man walk longa front!”
“Albion”: The reason sheep when drink-
ing from troughs make to the tap-end (“Leo Lear,”
B. 13/9/’l7) is because they are fastidious and do
not approve of water which is contaminated with
saliva, etc., from their cobbers’ mouths. Horses
and goats have similar ideas. Have often seen a
mob of horses wait in turn until the running water
has carried away- pieces of grass and saliva.
“Wandi” : It was on Toinki run (N.S.W.)
that I got three wild geese with one shot. Two of
them dropped dead on the spot, the
other flew about a mile away, but was
dead when I reached it. This is a
frequent experience with magpie geese
—if the wing is not broken, one will
continue flying straight on as though
untouched, then suddenly drop dead.
The English family with whom I was
staying had never seen my geese, but
elected to sample them. In the clean-
ing process, however, the woman got
hold of the extraordinary windpipe,
and she dropped the bird as a thing
uncanny. This pipe is an abnormally
convoluted, folded affair, which you
haul out by the yard. The whyfore
of it I have never seen explained. The
magpie or pied is the large- 1 of the
wild geese, a semi-palm.ited, black
and white bird whose hooked beak
is surmounted by a knob. It makes
a rush nest in leedy swamps for its nine or
ten yellowish white eggs. The Cape Barren or grey-
goose, which belongs to the south-east, is an equally
fine bird, though smaller.
“Dinkiim”: That cow of “Devilfish’s”
which swam the Derwent (B. 26/7/’l7) was taking a
mere shower bath compared with a stud cow that
left Crowfells station with the flood-waters of the
Flinders (N.Q.) in January last. She went ashore
for refreshments at Lyrian Downs, 70 miles lower,
and just to show there was no ill feeling she
gave birth to a calf (yes, a calf) one month later;
both well, thanks. Another Strawberry left Ilughen-
den with the same flood, came ashore at the front
door of the hospital at Richmond, and asked to be
milked. That paddle was just about 100 mile?.
“Silas Snell”: Crowther had rented a
farm from Paddy Mann at the Working Miners’
(Vic.), and having systematically neglected to pay
his rent, Mann put it up to him that his absence
would bo accepted as a favor. Crowther, who was a
bachelor greatly addicted to lying down with black
botths, had never made an attempt to farm the
land, and a bark hut would have served his simple
requirements as well as Mann’s homestead; but
he was the sort of fellow who never allows
the question of expense he does not intend to meet
to stand in his way. Naturally he declined to leave, and
Mann was compelled to take his roof oft'. Crowther
merely shifted his bed under the dining-room table,
and defied the elements. So Mann ceased to regard
the law, and taking his friend up bodily pitched him
off the property. “Evidently you mean it,” said
Crowther without emotion. He then entered into
occupation of an old hut on Anderson’s land.
Anderson took an axe and knocked the hut
all about the paddock. When next heard of
Crowther was in occupation of the half hut,
half cavern, in which the Working Miners’ Co.
stored its explosives. George Mile, manager of the
mine, tied a horse to his powder store, and pulled
the top half to another site. Crowther recognised
the justice of this action. A week later two men,
felling for firewood in Canty’s paddock, attacked a
lirge gum. It proved, as expected, to be little
more than a shell for 9ft. up, and was
soon disposed of. The tree fell with a crash and
a storm of dust and splinters, and when this had
partially- subsided a head appeared over the edge of
the stump and said: “Can’t a man ever keep a roof
over his head in this [pretty] place?” It was
Crowther just risen from his bed in the big hollow.
* * * *
“Werrimee”.: Camping out in the hush
one samples a variety of strange sounds that suggests
at times a herd of devils holding high revel
among- the treetops. Occasionally the noises are so
impressionable as to stampede travelling cattle.
Different trees give out different Sounds in a strong
wind. Compare, for instance, the bat-like fluttering
of wild apple ( Angophora ) leaves, the tremulous
hum of gum-leaves, the whistling shriek of the
mulga, the lonely wailing of the silky oak, and the
weird shrill piping of the forest oak.' So with the
reeds and rushes, so with the grasses. Some emit a
hissing, seething sound, some whisper softly in your
ear, some greet you with a gentle purr. ' Again, a
particular tree, or clump of trees, is identified with
almost every country home by its compelling voice.
An inmate will remark on a windy night: “Hear
the bull oak!” or “Listen to the pine!” There are
places in the bush noted for their singular night-
sounds—sounds which nobody can understand or
explain. A clump of mulga in a narrow, twisty
valley- takes a lot of beating.
“Te Whare”: The shyest lizard known
lives about the banks of some South Coast (N.S.W.)
rivers. His presence is usually betokened by a
sudden splash in the stream and nothing more but
occasionally he is seen sunning himself on a willow
or oak bough. If on a willow his complexion is
light green, but if on an oak bough he changes to
indeterminate brown. There is a kind of shield over
his head and a bluish patch on each side of it. I’ve
observed the female of this saurian occasionally
planting her eggs in soft soil well up on the bank.
Lately I saw a couple about a foot or 18in. in
length canoodling on an oak trunk overhanging a
deep pool. No. 1 immediately took a header into
the pool, but for a few seconds No. 2 circled round
tlre trunk, gohanna-fashion, and gave brief oppor-
tunity to note its points. Then it, too, shot into
the water. What is the name of these acrobats?
Is it the Australian chameleon? The fact that it can
change color is not conclusive evidence that it is the
chameleon, as the white-striped lizard, which boys
call “tommyrogger,” can do the same. The latter,
however, changes only from sandy to dark brown if
lying in shadow', while the other chap has, at any
rate, light green, grey and brown in his paint-box.
This lizard is apparently confined to coastal rivers.
* * * *
“E.A.C.” : Can any Abotanist account for
this phenomenon of vegetation? On a lonely bush
track in the Springsure (Q.) district is a giant
coolabah tree, supporting and nourishing from its
first limb a half-grown, healthy Moreton Bay fig-
tree, some of whose straggling roots vainly endeavored
to connect with the earth from a height of 20 feet,
but perished en route. There is no other Moreton
Bay fig-tree for 200 miles around, so don’t blame
the birds'; and the road is bare of pubs.
* * * *
“Ornis”: Here’s my dozen for the Aus-
tralian orchestra: Whistling shrike, thrush, reed
warbler, striated field-wren, dusky fantail, grey-tailed
thickhead, butcher-bird, flame-breasted robin, grass-
bird, blue wren, skylark, goldfinch. The two last-
mentioned are, of course, foreigners; all the rest are
at home in Tassy.
HE WASN'T BROKE.
MOTORIST : “Poor fellow! Help him into the
car, constable, and I'll drive him to the
station."
THE VICTIM : “Station be doomed! If Oi’ve
done any harrum to your ear Oi’m will-
ing to pay the damage."
“Pick”: For persistence, back the swal-
low. Two of them took up a homestead lease in our
hut, light over the table. They displayed an utter
disregard for the cleanliness of our pints and plates
below, and for three weeks beat all our efforts to
shoo them off. Then we swung a sheet of hark
between their mud-tenement and our tinware, and
the argument closed. Only one thing short of kill-
ing swallows will prevent their nesting in the spot
they have selected. That is, to hang empty bottles
in a draughty place near by. When the wind blows
the bottles emit a droning sound, and this scares
away the birds.
PORTENTOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas Mrs. Bently’s grievance day.
With eloquence she cried her woe,
While Mrs. Ladd, across the way
A dozen times was heard to say
No lydie’d be behavin’ so.
“A lvdie!” piped the Bently dame.
“Gaze on the crimson lydie do!
It’s decent livin’ keeps yer name
So blighted free from blinded shame,
You precious blanky beauty, you!”
Here homing Bently marked the breach,
Turned off, and drifted to the right.'
Said he: “That’s my Melinda’s speech.
1 alwiz keep well out of reach
When she grows freezin’ly perlite!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


The Staunchest Supporters
DUNLOPTYRES
are the Motorists who use them after
having tried other makes.
★ * * *
A COMPARATIVE TEST
of Quality, Service, Cost of Covers and
Tubes —and tyre upkeep per mile —
eventually results in the fitting of
Australian White Tread “Dunlops.”
More high-grade material and more miles for your
money plus tyre satisfaction are the advantages
gained by using “Dunlops” and half the Motorists of
Australia enjoy them —DO YOU ?
r<-
Or
90
f'"«s
a
\
1A
ss'
1/
)//////
tl
I/I
k
/
STOCKED AT ALL :: :: ::
LEADING GARAGES IN
GROOVED, THREE-RIBBED
AND RUBBER NON-SKID.
DUNLOP RUBBER
COMPANY
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, PERTH,
ADELAIDE, BRISBANE :: :: ::
LAUNCESTON, WELLINGTON,
CHRISTCHURCH, AUCKLAND


The Aged and Infirm
sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on tKe
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BES 1
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
doe 3 NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, as it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST—a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
eame s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
m 'Ck\ Hi;
r*
7Z
m
m
m.
i
1
A
F“
kWMf.
Wifo
M
m- s
EHmH
M§
iff
Wil
| ■•<■ * rv»C. '« t
Price 2/6 and 4, 6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to —
W. 0. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Branch Offices —
Sydney. N.S.W., Wellington. N.Z.
Business, Robbery, etc.
* * * *
“Mosmaneer”: I notice a growing regard
for the bothersome ha’penny amongst men.
Whilst going home on the outside edge of a
packed Sydney tram the other Saturday
afternoon the skilled equilibrist known as
the fare-collector climbed along and started
to give a wonderful exhibition of footboard
balancing while juggling small change and
tickets. Suddenly a complaining male
squeaked from a tangled mass of suburban-
ites : “You didn’t give me my ha’penny
change!” He was buried so deep that the
collector couldn’t see him ; but the argument
proceeded for a minute or two; then the
collector, risking his neck for the 45th time
in 10 minutes, dived his hand into his change-
bag, craned his neck at the buried-alive
suburbanite and said : “Well. I did give yer
th’ ha’penny, but another one won’t; break
me!” Producing the despised coin he handed
it along, saw that it reached the outstretched
hand, and then added fiercely : “I’ll give yer
a bob if yer like —or I’ll lend yer a quid if
yer want it!” Thei*e was no reply from the
crushed economist. This is a hard country
to be careful in.
“Inkwage” : If I could be born again
commercially I would clamor to be started
off as a dentist or a chemist. Nowadays I
pay more to the dentist than I do to the
doctor; and whereas the doctor is always
threatened with nationalisation, I can’t re-
member any similar threat against the den-
tist. As to the retail chemist’s profits, well,
my friend the wholesale druggist lately
showed me a cough mixture that pays him
very well at Is. “But I can t get the chem-
ists* to handle it,” he sighed. “They can
charge half a crown, and get it, but a profit
of 150 per cent, isn’t enough for them. They
like to make up their own remedies.” Last
week he showed me another line : wholesale
price, 6d.; retail price, 4s. (id. Now I know
why genial old Pillponnder in the home
suburb could afford to retire before he
reached mellow middle-age;
From another Front: —
The Ma State’s entomologist, W. W. Froggatt, has
ha<l a look at the pest which is destroying the iron-
bark forests of N. S. Wales North Coast, and has
identified it as a species of “lerp insect,” known as
Cnrdiaxpis. It is interesting to know his name, but
under any other moniker he would be equally
unpopular, and he treats ejectment notices in which
be is described as Cardiaspis with the same contempt
as the writs previously issued pgainst him as a
pest unknown conspiring against the peace of our
Lord the King, his crown and dignity. No method
has vet been invented to hold up his offensive, which
is developing in a northerly direction at a rate of
j. 7 miles a year ; and unless lie is outed before long,
the ironbark will be an extinct* vegetable on the
northern rivers. Though firing' the bush checks him
for a season or two, lie is back at work in the burnt
area a couple of years-later. Belts have been thinned
and clearings made to stop bis advance; but he
skips over the breaks and resumes business on the
far side. How he travels is unknown, as he has never
been detected on the journey. He has been noticed
off and on for the past 30 years up Gloucester way,
but first made himself a real nuisance near Dungog
seven years ago. That attack died out without spread-
ing, and it was thought that Cardiaapis had joined
Capital in its flight from the country ; but three
years' ago he made a fresh assault - further noith,
between the Hastings and the Manning. The theory
that he wouldn’t cross water has been proved a
forlorn hope, as this year he has been found north
of the Hastings River for the first time.
Another queer trade! Arthur Crawford
is an old-established American idea-farmer.
For 18 vears he has been supplying ideas to
illustrators—‘•gags’’ is the trade-name. At
present he has on his books 15 artists to
whom he furnishes practically all the ideas
for their drawings. Every drawing thus
conceived has attached to the artist’s signa-
ture “+A.C.” Crawford adds the selling
of the drawings to his other work. He
knows the requirements of the art-editors
of New York ; so that he not only scents
what each editor wants, and when lm is
likely to want it, but adapts his ideas to
satisfy particular markets.
“Jacko” : Jenolan Caves last year involved
the N. S. Wales taxpayer in a loss of £2OOO.
The caves themselves paid well, but the
Accommodation House put the balance on
the wrong side. The tourists provided an
income of £240 a week for the eaves and
£l7O for the House. The only way the old
tunnels can be made to pay is by popularis-
ing ’em, not by adding to the present tall
charges—3s. a meal and 2s. (id. a time into
any one cavern —and especially by reducing
transport charges. A motor from any riart
of the Western line to the site costs, a fiver
as a minimum per party. It comes too high.
“Into”: While on furlough in Northern
India recently I dropped into a big English
store, and soon had the manager bombarding
me with questions about
biscuits, bacon, tongues, etc. 'LyVic-
srnall stock of Australian goods, mostly Me
torian on the shelves; but lank and L . »
fish goods practically filled the shop. The
quality of our goods had made him hung y
fur more. He told me that there would be
plenty of orders for commercials visiting
twice a year and a steady job for a live Aus
tralian trade representative in Calcutta. llow
is it our people don’t get on to it. Its
onlv a 20-day trip from Sydney and lo from
Perth. In the Indian army the Tommies
give our preserves first place, and can t get
enough of them. Bull’s export east m this
line has practically ceased, and now that
America is up to its neck in war Australia s
chance is waiting on the mat.
“Peter’’: A Melbourne man lately gave a
Jap firm an order for 20 dozen pairs ot
lady’s bloomers, and sent a sample minus
one leg. which latter he kept for the purpose
of comparison when tjje full order came to
lumd. The goods were duly delivered the
oilier day—built to attire one limb !
* * * *
“Wart”: Talking about p.n’s which used
to pass for currency in the Spec., here’s one :
>j 0 _ 20. Hobart, Ist May, 1823.
SIXPENCE. I promise to pay the bearer on demand
the sum of sixpence, for value received.
A. 15.
The paper, passed at a discount —four shil-
lings in silver for five shillings in paper —
and some of the traders made a good thing out
of them. These notes were not the only quaint
currency in the early days of Tassy. A
bottle of rum passed anywhere for one
pound: also, most of the merchants issued
“tokens.” In 1810 dollars were imported
from Bengal. To make a smaller coin and to
save the - original's being carted out of the
colony a round piece was punched out of
the centre of each. This was valued at
Is. 3d., and was called the dump. The ring-
passed at the full dollar value. A convict
got his liberty for suggesting the idea —at
least, that’s the oldest inhabitant’s yarn.
“Gordo”: Who is pulling the war-time
fortune out of olive oil? The wholesale price
has jumped from 12s. 6d. per gal. to nigh on
40s. for best Australian. As a constant con-
sumer, I assert that foreign brands are
“muck” in comparison with the local pro-
duction ; but that doesn’t justify the kite-
high increase in the price.
“F.T.” : A recent Bulletin scoff concern-
ing the issue of “supplementary readers” to
Vic. State scholars seems to have done its
work. Though during the current year
seven different readers have been published
and duly paid for by parents, no doubt to
the great profit of the publishers, next year
the scholars wall be required to buy only the
usual graded readers.
“Crackling”: Save your bacon! The
Berkshire sow, Gippsland Queen, was sold
at Melbourne Agricultural Show for £52 10s.,
and. counting the sale of her total progeny
of 48 (in 3-J years) and the orize-money she
has won, she has brought £790 ss. 6d. to her
late owner. She has several firsts and cham-
pions to her credit, and the catalogue
proudly traces her lineage back to Lady
Dorothy, her great-great-great-grand-dam —
floruit 1909, as they say in Debrett.
“Lantana”: They felled an ironbark re-
cently near Glenreagh (N.S.W.) which, when
squared, gave two girders, one 24 x 20, 40ft.
long ; the other 20 x 18, 40ft. long.
“Machete”: “Bill Bowyang” asks why-
tinned bunny is not being issued to our
troops instead of the generally inadequate
frozen variety. This was done in the South
African war, and the tinned stuff (product
of a Victorian firm) was popular with all
lucky enough to make its acquaintance in
those poorly-fed days. Nowadays even the
beef has got to come from Argentine ranches.
Perhaps they chew ours out on the River
Plate.
“Brain”: Re promissory notes (B.
27/9/’l7). I have one which promises to
pay “Mr. James Williams or Bearer” the
sum of ss. sterling on demand. It was drawn
by the Police Fund in Sydney, which was
instituted by Macquarie and was in exist-
ence until the ’forties. The remarkable
thing about the note is that on the back is
printed in Latin part of Cicero’s oration
against Catiline. What connection there is
between old Cicero giving Lucius Catiline
beans and the Police Fund giving somebody
else five bob are questions that I can’t
answer.
“Tim Fogarty, jun.”: “The Wanderer”
(B. 27/9/T7) merely quotes sucking-pig
weight in his claim for the heavyweight
dead hog championship. A British black
sow killed at Gatton College (Q.) in
1913 was converted into 6201 b. of bacon.
It was portion of the College exhibit in the
Brisbane Show of that year.
* * ■* *
“Stargazer” : Why do the eminent entertain-
ers loan their faces out for the base uses of
advertisement? Are they paid to permit
chemists and others to exploit their linea-
ments or distinctive marks, that the purga-
tive abilities of a certain pill, or the
sticking capacity of a new complexion may-
be impressed upon a credulous generation?
I don’t really think the actress’s face is her
fortune in this sense. I imagine that a
quaint egotism, the outcome of protracted
theatrical experience, leads the ladies of the
stage to lend their countenance to Biggs’s
Pills and Gobe’s Snap. They yearn to
keep their leading features before the pub-
lic. forgetting the distressing effects of
familiarity. Let me recite, as an awful
warning to others who may be disposed to
allow any old apothecary the free run of
their faces, the case of a well-known and
abundantly-glorified actress on the S.vdney-
to-Melbourne express recently. Sitting oppo-
site the lady, whose face, by the way, has
been freely utilised to call general attention
to one particular brand of patent buCk-up,
was a sour-looking woman of 50, who eyed
the actress from Albury south, over 80 miles,
with such malignancy that at length the
general favorite faltered a mild protest. “I
know you,” responded the other fiercely,
shaking a vehement fist. ‘'You ought to be
prosecuted for a liar aud a fraud. I bet
you wouldn’t dare show 7 your deceivin’ face
in our part, where everybody’s tried that
fool medicine of yours!”
“0.C.”: In its enthusiasm to cure
all, the conference of N. S. Wales
health inspectors overlooked several im-
portant reforms. For instance, under
present conditions, the .inhab-
ited by a consumptive be
vacated to-day and entered .Jo*mt>row by
a healthy family, without i« “ any degree
undergoing a process of cleansing or fumi-
gation. In nine cases out of ten new
tenants have no knowledge of their prede-
cessors, with the result that the cleanliness
of the dwelling is judged by the freshly-
scrubbed ball and clean-swept yard, while
the germ of consumption may be lurking in
the new home, ready to strike down the
weakest of the incoming family. It should
be compulsory on the landlord’s part to thor-
oughly fumigate before re-letting a house.
“H.” : Now w r e have it again. The Vic-
torian War Council, which decides whether
or no entertainments for the alleged benefit
of patriotic funds are likely to offer a square
deal to Billjim, has lately had a apecial com-
mittee at work, scraping up particulars and
working out percentages as to the cost of
this sort of work. The returns show that
the average cost of running the’ patriotic
merrymakings of the past twelvemonth has
reached 21 p.c. of the actual proceeds. There
w r ere 324 authorised entertainments during
the 365 days, in 10 cases without debited ex-
pense. The ancient business of eating a
dinner for a charity has often been derided
by a certain class of economist; and, in
view of the large amount of voluntary labor
that should be available for local war-work,
the thing ought to work out differently. Too
often the giddy flapper, with no sense of
proportion or any idea of the value of hard
cash, is given a free hand in the selection of
the ice-cream and Chinese-lanterns. She and
her merry young friends have a rattling
good time, but when the debts come home to
roost there is liable to be a tearful reckon-
ing. Anyhow, the War Council now 7 knows
where it stands.
“Silas” : After seven years of what Mrs.
Coram called “backing and filling,” Drilow
walked straight into the widow’s dairy one
morning, and closing the door with an air
of great resolution, presented Mary with a
piece of ordinary grey sugar-paper folded
five times. Mrs. Coram opened the precious
document and read: “Mrs. Mary Coram,
Maddam: Will you or won’t you? Yours
trooly, Daniel Drilow, Esq.” “Well?” said
Daniel after a pause. “Well?” said Mrs.
Coram. “P'raps you’d like to think it over?”
said Drilow. “Will I or won’t I what?”
asked the lady. “Ah, go on,” Drilow re-
plied shyly, “ziff you don’t know. Will you
or won’t you?” “I will!” said Mrs. Coram
emphatically. “Oh, very well then,” Drilow
replied, and he went away, and remained
away. At the expiration of the eleventh
week Daniel w 7 as served with sundry blue
documents. “Why, what’s the meaning of
all this?” Drilow inquired. “Mary Coram
is taking action ' against you to recover
£700,” said the lady’s agent. “But what for,
in the name of Heaven?” “For breach of
promise.” “Breach of promise!” howled
Daniel. “Breach of promise! Why, I’m
goin’ to marry her. It’s all arranged.” “Yes,
but that was 11 weeks ago.” “Of course, it
w y as,” Daniel admitted, “but you don’t expect
me to rush the woman off her feet. Besides
(here Drilow cooled down)., “there’s legal
formalities to be observed.” “Legal formali-
ties?” “Yes. You see, my first wife, in
Melbourne, ain’t dead yet.”
“B.Sc.” : The professional division inN.S.V .
Public Service is seizing the chance of the
Royal Commission now sitting to air the
old grievance of the poor pay of the scien-
tist in the service. Australia should encour-
age the pursuit of the practical sciences
such as chemistry, botany and the various
ologies. But while there is a splendid
science school in the University there is no
attempt made to attract good men to such
departments as agriculture, forestry, works
and lands. Officers with high-sounding titles
get less than a foreman 6}
fostering chemical research Germany was
able to commandeer half the world’s trade,
and while N. S. Wales might not be able to
attain such flights, she produced one nr' o,
Farrar, a breeder of wheat, whose, d is ? o ''
eries have meant millions. I think I m rig
in saying that a commercial traveller wou
have scoffed at his salary !
“Copra Bug” : We are becopiing too civil
isod in the Solomon Islands. The other d .
a civilian w r as walking along the main r 0
of Tulagi when ho met a white “pnsone
who put the acid on him for a bottle o
wine. As the pub was handy and the Pri-
oner looked as though a drink or two wo
do him a lot of good, the Samaritan snou e •
Ilia tenderheartedness later earned him a he H
of official abuse and a £lO fine. Compare ,
with the earlier days of C. M. Wood to •
when that kindly potentate was judge a
jury as well as Resident Commissioner.
Irishman was brought before him. (, h al ?
with a serious indiscretion in Conner 1
with dynamite, and was found guilty. > °
ford looked his man in the eye aud
began: “John I’. Dublin. I fine you u •„
“Sure, your Honor, ()i haven’t got * •
“John P. Dublin. I fine you £5. &*“?,
your Honor, Oi haven’t got £t> el fc
“Well, 1 owe you £5; so well can
square.”
Just-returned Lieut. C. R. IJeppingstone,
who is relieving W.A. State Reeruitmg
Officer Burkett, was outed in a curious \ 1 * •
After seeing service at Gallipoli an<
Egypt, he was loping across the desei P
camel when an airman pal made a ■
calculation and swooped into him. j.
pingstone’s left arm was smashed, bu .
miracle no other serious damage was c o
“Lonelv Dick”: How about this t'°v t|' c
long amis Pte. 11. T. Bramley, formerly
of Tara (-Q.), hut now on the warring ne -
saw a horse recently in a gun team
looked familiar. On examination he *
covered Ills own brand upon it. -to I
was one he had sold years ago.
ABE’S ACCIDENT ASSURANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Came to the office yesternoon
Abe Ogglehorn, a good old man.
His nose was like the crescent moon.
Said he: “I’m takin’ if I can
Insurance for a goot round sum.
Say, haff I to dtr ride place come?
“Iss diss ver dey insurance make
Againsd der accident? No? Vcs?
Den dot's all ride, und I vill dake
You policies for nodding less
Dan flfdeen underd, 1 lose more
Pecause I do nod diss pefore.
“You see, mein friend, dis iss der case:
Ven I a leedle walkings take,
Und no vone’s home up ad mein place
T’ree times der splentit fire-oudbreak ?
Und vould you t'ink? In each event
It vos pud oud by accident !”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


SS; •*
»
■■ l *
iggp
✓
/
3
\
/
\ .
v-**sd
l ' '#l
,4
1.
A
"■NT
- ' „ :•
:a}T
m
tM
:r
fi <
m
the am a a
..
7or f/2e 'Home
* •
■
r^vi
V >4
~1:
■:
i?"*
SMITH*
JUUUS
:i
" •■■■■ v ■•'
A*
=- :
MM
INSTALL a G. E. FAN for the Summer heat. Economical, durable and inexpensive.
They constitute an ideal comfort for the trying conditions of the oppressive atmosphere
of our office, home, restaurant or club, etc., etc.
The G. E. wav is the easiest way. Write us for particulars.
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, O? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS 5T MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS .
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH <W.A.) ; Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun &. Johnstone, IQO Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND :.The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullosk & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


_.n
A. Saunders pure double-cut diamond, knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. gold, £3/10/-
0
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklace, set pearls and
aquamarines or tourmalines,
£2/10/-, Set diamonds
and aquamarines or tour-
malines, 15ct. gold,
£5/15/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Battalion Bing, any
(dors supplied, 9ct.
gold, 25/-. Lady's
size, 21 /-
A. Saunders’ Links,
daintily engraved, 9ct.
gold, 10/6.
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold
Safetv Tie Pin
3/0, 4/6,
5/6, accord
ing to size.
A. Saunders’ pu re
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£lO.
Larger diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Amethyst set Ring,
9ct. gold, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Wishbone and
Battalion-color Brooch, any
Battalion colors supplied, 9ct.
gold, 8/6.
ALL ORDERS POST FREE
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle and Spray
Brooch, 15ct. gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bracelet, set with Amethyst,
35/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. cold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Sil-
ver Hunting Keyless Lever
Watch, full jewelled, £2.
Heavier case, 50/-. Gold-filled
Elgin or Waltham, £4/4/-,
£5/5/-, £6/6/-. 9ct.
gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
14ct. gold, £B/10/- 18ct.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set with pearls and
aquamarines or garnets,
10/6.
SPECIAL VALUE, £3.
A. Saunders’ Curb Snap
strong safetv chain, 9ct.
30/-, £2, £2/10/-,
Padlock Bangle, with
gold, £3. Other sizes,
£3/10/-,£4/10/-,£5.
A. Saunders’ Nellie Stewart Bangle, secret snap, 9ct. gold,
£2. Others, 30/-, £2/10/-, £3. 1 set. gold, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Luminous Radium Dial Wristlet Watch, gun-
metal or nickel case, jewelled movement, 25/- Extra
quality, 30/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. Solid gold,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut' diamond R al .
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £5, 111
A. Saunders Lady's
Hand-clasp Ring,
9ct. gold, 20/-
15ct., 25/-
18ct., 30/-
A. Saunders’ Lady's 9ct. solid
Gold, Half-hunting Keyless
Lever Watch, full jewelled,
compensation balance,
£4/10/-.
14ct. gold, £5/10/-. 18ct.
gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Links,
daintilv engraved, 9et.
gold, 20/-. 15ct-, 35/-
A. Saunders’
pure double-cut
Diamond Half-
hoop Bing,
18ct. , gold,
£7/10/-.
Smaller dia-
monds, £5.
A. Saunders’
red or blue
stone set Ring
9ct., gold,
10/6.
A. Saunders’
Necklace, set
Aquamarines or
Tourmalines,
9ct. gold, 37/6.
loct, £2/15/-
y
A. Saunders’
9c t. gold Safety
Tie Pin,
S/6, 4/6,
5/6, accord-
ing to size.
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set with pearls and
aquamarine or ruby,
25/-
A. Saunders’ Boomerang and
Battalion-color Brooch, any Bat-
talion colors supplied, Oct. gold,
8/6.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
ON ALL OCCASIONS
when you may require a specially strong antiseptic Soap—for
instance, to protect yourself against mosquitoes and other insects,
or to ant.septically cleanse their bites —use
CALVERTS
20% Carbolic Soap.
Use a light lather only, that is all yo'i need with a Soap like this,
which contains such a large proportion of Carbolic.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers. Each tablet in metal box.
Makers: F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester, England.
BOOKS AT AUSTRALIA’S BIG BOOK STORE.
I Will Get You Any Book You Require.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH .
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS—LOVE, BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc.,
with full directions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to Win at
1/3. Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering. Brazing, Gasfitting, &c., 1/6
posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, 1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-,
posted 1/3. Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, 1/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules
for all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River, 4/-.
Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic, 1/3. Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, 1/-.
The Doctor (Cures for all Diseases), 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches & Toasts, Public Speaking Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly
Gang of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits,!/-; posted. 1/2. Electricity
Made Simple (new), 5/-. Self-Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 1/6. Complete Book-keep-
ing, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. How MeDou-
gall Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3. French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan-
nan’s Engine-Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many others, all at 3/6 each posted.
Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted. Women’s Secrets. 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted. The Woman of Fire, 2/-. Send a trial order NOW.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and save your cash. fW“Established 25 Years.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1/G posted. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/3. Sappho, genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. DR-
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/o.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry, 1/5. Guide
to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret History Court of England, 1/6 posted. Lovers
Letter Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry Ex-
posed, Key to all Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
10d. posted. Tokology, "/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d., 2/-. How to Bead
Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 'posted. Ciievasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assistant, 1/6. The Wifes
Handbook, 1/2 posted. Bennarb Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted. Fruits
of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervous-
ness and Its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 17 w
pages, 1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 16/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas .0-
Bootmaking and Repairing. 1/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3. Moores
Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 11/°
posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance. 1/- posted. 200 Old-Time Songs (words
and-music complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine, posted dd.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can bo got from this Advt.
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for* the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g $9 Market Strcet Sydftey (ONLY) .


War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, op Money Order Post Offices
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 0
will purchase a Cert
ficate for £1
£5
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6“ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. October, 1917
aORROCKSESHORROCKSES’aORROCKSES’MORROCKSESM
FROM THE
RAW MATERIAL to the FINISHED ARTICLE
E. r^t
1
RROCKSES'
HOR R OCKSES^OEmOCKSES]
ARE MANUFACTURED in the.* OWN MILLS
FROM THE FINEST SELECTED COTTON
/^Za/isie/etteA
HORROCKSES*HORROCKSESI
SEE
“HORROCKSES”’
ON *
SELVEDGE
IttWRO£KSES > HORROCKSES , HORROCKSES , HORRQCKSES >
Fx. and R. SPOONS
AND FORKS
EMBODY THE HIGHEST IDEALS.
They are the MOST HEAVILY PLATED of all Spoons and Forks
the world over. They will be good after 40 years of every-day
wear.
They are plated on the finest-quality nickel silver that it is
possible to silver.
They engrave like solid silver. Silver deposit considered, they
are the cheapest spoons on the market.
They are made by us by the latest new process, which makes them
twice as hard and strong as by the old method.
TCe carry an enormous stock in Electro Silver and Solid Silver,
in cases and uncased.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Extra heavily plated on
special hard white metal
Spoons and Forks and Rust-
less Steel Knives —47 pieces
in handsome Oak Cabinet—
£l2/10/-
Less 20% 2/10/-
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 I*ITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W, APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
“GRAMOPHONE''
Library Grind.
The instrument that
everyone admires.
Exquisitely produced in beau-
tiful Mahogany, with brass-
gilt fittings—a decorative piece
of furniture as well as a musi-
cal instrument that delights
and educates.
Be sure that the machine and
the records which you buy bear
the “His Master’s Voice” trade-
mark. Thus you will have
the guarantee of that superb
QUALITY which for so many
years has maintained “The
Supremacy of ‘His Master’s
Voice.’ ”
Library Grand, as illustrated:
I
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
Satin-finished Mahogany ... £4O
Other Models, £7/15/- to £7O.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street —-—-Sydney.
Hupmobile
Brief Hupmobile Specifications.
HI’PHOBILE MODELS: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater. Motor:
Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (3£in. x s£in.).
Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater).
Tyres 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120
m/m or 35in. x 4£in. on 7-seater, non-skid tyres on all rear
wheels. Fully equipped with electric starting and lighting
system, wind screen, hood, side curtains, door-curtain carriers,
speedometer, robe rail, foot rail, carpet in tonneau, five demount-
able rims, tyre-carrier, pump, jack, and full set of tools —Magneto
ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki hood and seat covers
at small additional cost over list price of car.
©
©
The marA of superi'o*
\jpt a tor car *sort/tbq
WHY consider a car less
beautiful than the
Hupmobile ?
Why consider a car less
famed for performance than
the Hupmobile—which out=
classes other fours and even
multi=cylinder types ?
Why accept value less sound
than the value of established
Hupmobile quality ?
These questions will come
to you when you are con=
sidering the purchase of a
car.
5-Seater —Wheel Base 119 inches.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.— Cable Address: “HUPP DETROIT”


GIVE YOUR NERVES THREE GOOD
MEALS A DAY.
PHYSICIANS SAY PHOSPHATE
MAKES THE NERVES STEADY
AND STRONG.
' Phosphate is the natural food of the
nerves, and the form they most readily
absorb and transform into vital nervous
energy is known as bitro-phosphate. You
can get bitro-pliospliate from your chemist
in the form of 5-grain compressed tablets,
and if you take one of these tablets imme-
diately after each meal you will provide
your nerves with the nourishment they need
so badly. Feed your nerves and they will
become steady and strong; and, as your
nervous strength increases, so your general
health will improve. Your brain will act
quickly and clearly, your eyes will grow
brighter, your step will become firmer and
your cheeks will glow with health. Languor,
lassitude, weakness and depression will be
overcome and a decided increase in vigor and
vitality' will be quickly noticeable. — Advt.
Vieture&j
Jk
o —
s
es
n
ft
-7
-^77
-7.
N
m
M. c urf
’i M-t 'i ill \
Why Paramount Productions
Lead the World.
E BECAUSE they are selected from stories a throb with the vitalism of life—
they mirror scenes wh.eh envelop you in their soul-gripping realism—
ilu y p-' s nit. always, an indefinable touch of Nature which strikes a
sympathetic chord in every heart—they are the pictures by the people for the
people.
Here are three of the coming big features:
DOUG. FAIRBANKS in “IN AGAIN—OUT AGAIN.”
MARGARET ILLINGTON in “THE INNER SHRINE.”
GEORGE COHAN in “BROADWAY JONES.”
WILL YOU SEE THEM AT YOUR THEATRE?
V IF YOU DON’T—ASK THE REASON WIIV
POLITICAL
POINTS
The military autocrat is much the same
everywhere. There is nothing in the world
he can’t do better than everyone else. As
a matter of fact, his wasteful muddles are
appalling; but, though the public pays, the
public must not dare to mention them. The
preposterous rules and regulations relating
to the discouragement of recruiting are
cdastic enough to reach any critic almost
anywhere; and they are being made more
elastic every month. This is one of the
prices we have to pay for the voluntary
system of recruiting. A Government can
use these regulations to suppress every
criticism of Defence administration, no mat-
ter how patently atrocious the action dis-
cussed may be. Two years ago, over a cer-
tain matter, discussion of which had been
suppressed. The Bulletin appealed to a
Minister. “It is shameful,” he wrote, “and
no Government would dare to do it if it
GETTING TO THE ROOT OF IT.
THE LAWYER : “Well, sir, and how can I help
you? Wish to take action for damages,
eh?”
THE VICTIM : “Er — no. I've got the dam-
ages. Wot I wants ter know is ’Old do
I go for a divorce.”
didn’t know that it could use the War
Precautions Regulations to prevent discus-
sion during the war, and that nobody will
care tuppence about it afterwards.” The
voluntary system thus plays into the hands
of autocrats and muddlers and wasters of
public money; it allows provedly incompetent
men to be kept in high positions; it permits
camp and other grievances to go unventi-
lated and unredressed. Which is all another
democratic reason why the voluntary system
should be abolished, even though it produces
as many recruits as the compulsory system.
Pearce is honest: and this paper believes
ho tries to do the right thing. What might
happen under this system, with its inevit-
able repression of criticism “prejudicial to
recruiting,” if another sort of man were in
office this paper doesn’t care to think about.
It is announced that “in
future no alien will be allowed
on the wharves, and no one who
is not a British subject by birth
will be employed in any way
in connection with shipping.”
Good ! —but something more
than mere names will have to
be looked at. The war was
still in its infancy when The
Bulletin commented on the
case of a young Englishman
who had been practically pushed
out of the Commonwealth
Naval Construction service by
.Tens August Jensen, then Min-
ister for the Navy and now
Minister for Customs, at the
bidding of union workers who
objected to his energetic man-
ner of getting things done.
This was in Brisbane. Jensen,
at a distance, held an inquiry
into the complaint of the young
man, who stated in his sworn
evidence that when, under a
general order, he dismissed a
couple of Germans from a dock
job, the foreman said: “We’ll
give ’em good Australian names
and put them back again.”
Bearing this in mind The Bul-
letin wonders how many aliens
with “good Australian names”
are now at naval work. It re-
members, too, that before the
war the best-known German
vessels trading to these ports
were the Sydney and Hobart and deir
sisters; so the German practice of finding
“good Australian names” is well established.
By expelling Price, of Gloucester, a
majority of the N. S. Wales Assembly chose
the riskier of two alternatives. Price’s
offending was that he brought against a
member of the Ministry charges of corrupt
conduct in relation to a railway and a saw-
mill, demanded a Royal Commission, and
then was able to do no more than convince
the Commission that his charges were “wan-
tonly and recklessly made and had no foun-
dation in fact.” This finding decorated
Price with a garland of straw and coated him
with the ridicule that he had long ago
earned. Had he continued to sit in the
Assembly anything he might say would have
been listened to with distrust. By
expelling him the Assembly runs the
risk of finding itself again taking tea
with Price, whose constituents have the
option of putting him where he was
before. And as a result of a by-elec-
tion in Price's favor would be an endorse-
ment by the electors of his allegations, the
dignity of Parliament w r ould look badly in
need of repair. In view of the loud aroma
exuding from the sawmill about which Price
wagged a futile tongue there is at least a
possibility of this occurring.
Of the 35 Labor men who entered the
N. S. Wales Parliament with
the first Labor bunch in 1891,
only one is now a member of
the P a r 1 i a m e ntary Labor
Party—Senator “Jupp” Gar-
diner, leader of the remnant in
the Senate. Joe Cook is the
only other ’ninety-oner in the
Federal Parliament; while Alf
Edden, who just managed to
secure his old Ivahibah seat in
the N.S.W. Leg. Ass. in March
last, is the only claimant to
the honor there. Three other
members of the original party
of 1891 have the gold railway
pass—George Black, J. D.
Fitzgerald and McGowen —by
virtue of appointment to the
Leg. Council.
Price, expelled from the N. S. Wales
Assembly the other day,' is fairly entitled to
regard himself as a pioneer. He made
charges which he couldn’t support; but, then,
other men have made charges which they
couldn't support, and nothing happened to
them except that they were made Agents-
General and given other important jobs.
Henley, for instance, charged Griffith with
corruption, and then confessed to a Commis-
sion that he had no word of evidence to
support the indictment. Nothing happened
to Henley. Later on the same Minister was
charged by Wade with five unrelated lots of
corruption. But because a sixth semi-charge
was not included when a Commission was
appointed, Wade refused to attempt to prove
the five definite charges. Nothing happened
to Wade —except that he was given the job
of representing the State in London. Had
the Assembly done the thing previously which
it has done now it might have saved much
of the time it has since wasted in listening
to stories of the mythical dead-cat.
It looks as though the military-legal heads
in England have bumped into the Attorney-
General, Prime Minister Hughes. Hughes
decided that a certain order is a lawful one.
TEE SPREAD OF THE ENCORE
NUISANCE.
FIRST LADY: “I wonder why they call it
the theatre of war?”
SECOND LADY: “Don't know, but it's not
fair to ask some of the boys to take so
many encores.”
In England an Australian soldier of the
First Division was tried by court-martial
for refusing to obey this order, and, though
defended by an Australian barrister as
prisoner's friend, was found guilty. It was,
however, as usual, left to the confirming
authority to decide the point of law; and
this authority, which is advised by special-
ists, refused to confirm the finding and sen-
tence of the Court. The position therefore
appears to be that an order which is declared
by the Attorney-General of the Common-
wealth to be a lawful one has been declared
by English authority, advised by specialists,
to be unlawful; and the sooner the conflict
between the two authorities' is settled the
better. At present, it appears, what is a
serious offence in Australia, on the Attorney-
General’s ruling, is not an offence when Bill-
jim gets to England.
An Unclaimed Monqy Bill, providing that
financial institutions and others holding
money on deposit or otherwise, but for which
there is no claimant for six years, shall hand
the lot over to the State as a common
trustee, met opposition in a weird form in
N. S. Wales Assembly the other night. The
provision that returns of unclaimed cash
shall be lodged with the Government stirred
Danny Levy to tears. “The lives of business
men,” he wailed, “are already a burden to
them because of the returns they have to
make out. They do not know where they
are now, and this will only make matters
worse.” The dreadful hardship of someone
having to write on a scrap of paper that he
has (say) £469 13s. 9d. belonging to another
individual who neglects to announce where
he is. seems to have hitherto been quite
overlooked by those who have passed legisla-
tion of this kind elsewhere. But the bill
went through, all the same. The House
seemed to have the idea that it wasn't the
returns that Daniel's friends object to; it
was the return.
If we had the recall in this country it
would not have been necessary for the N. S.
Wales Leg. Assembly to expel a member
for making “wanton and reckless” charges
of corruption against a Minister. The vote
was a party vote; and for the dominant
party to rid itself of an objectionable critic
by expulsion opens up large possibilities.
If a member after election goes wrong it
should be in the power of his own con-
stituents to recall him: there should be no
need to wait either for the House to move
or for his three years to expire.
By the doctrine of coercion, a woman can
do no wrong when her husband is helnwl,
her except in a case of wilful nnmh, g
where the illogical law reckons that Jf'
and husband may be equally guilty v
Melbourne wife whose little child was gagged
bound and nearly done to death by her ■ >
mid husband, in order that the youngster
might keeii quiet while they were awav
a picture-show, counts as a coerced pam-
to the transaction. But had she merely
brought her husband a chopper to ohm, ,«■
the kiddy’s head sin- would no doubt have
been compelled to share a conviction f nr
wilful murder. It is an illogical absurdity
and Addie l’ankhurst-Walsh should make 'a
grievance of it.
"It will not be many years before the
drink is gone altogether, for the Lord is
cleaning up the . backyard very nicely”
Picturesque metaphor by old John Verran
local preacher and ex-Premier. in v ,1’
Assembly.
ITS OTHER NAME.
THE ROMANTIC ONE: "Wouldn't it be lovely
to have an affinity who would tell me
of the glory of my eyes and the beauty
of”
THE BRUTE: “Affinity! All you want is a
plain, old-fashioned liar.”
PLEASURE LOVING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The more enjoyable life can be made the better,
and to Say that Australians are pleasure-loving is
only to say that they are a favored people living
in a favored country.” —Sydney Telegraph.
Let us be glad ! Enough of care and sorrow
Whines in the shells that splash the Flanders
mud.
The evil is sufficient for the morrow ;
To-day makes happy summer in the blood.
Throw round the cash and join the merry scramble;
Rills are for future years and yobs to pay ;
Life's sun is warm—the warmer that we ramble
Some distance from the narrow moral way.
Oh, Clarabel, your lips are so enticing!
Oh, Alice, maiden of the dainty waist!
Who cares if toil’s rope’s in need of splicing?
’Tis only joy that moves with happy haste!
I’ it me a quid upon a likely winner ;
Fill me a glass of something worth my while.
The surf blows white; and I’m a happy sinner,
While dimples hold and mouths are pink to smile.
War? Well, if war is round the red world raging,
I praise the hero heart that bleeds for me,
The furious might of Germany engaging
To keep Amelia sweet with cakes and tea.
Someone, of course, must do the bitter fighting;
But I’m a pleasure-lover all the time.
It is this favored land my soul inviting
To find for gladness an elastic rhyme.
Let us be glad ! Trot out your quips and stories.
Let the ball hurtle o’er the fields of play.
The others —well, they have their battle glories;
Butchered to make a Sydney holiday.
But, anyhow, the Kajser’s nearly finished,
’ Our coming victory fills each report;
I’ll win the war and keep my undiminished
Love of the pleasant pathway like a sport.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
THE CHILDREN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These be the poor man's offspring, born to the shop
arid the loom,
With brain that is half awakened after the nidit
of gloom
hived b.v their sires in squalor, in slums like'
warrens a-swarm,
With scarce a bone for their hunger, or a rag' that
might keep them warm.
And we, shall we let the children sink back to the
slough of the slum,
Till the body is starved and shrunken, and the brain
grows once more dumb ?
Famine and Fear, grim masters, stare from the
haunted eyes—
Great God, set an end to our deafness, let us hear,
let us feel their cries!
Throw open this rich land's storehouse that the
children have their bread
(What matters that blind men followed where others
more blindly led?)
For the children on their pillows loose-fleshed and
smileless lie—
Give them your help, my masters, bring aid or the
babies die!
Shrill o'er the song of the sunshine, loud o’er the
lilt of the breeze,
Drowning the news of battle from the lands beyond
the seas,
Rises the cry of the children, withered, unsmiling
of eye:
Unlock us the nation’s storehouse! Give trs the
, bread or we die!
N.B.W.
JOHN EGAN.


What is Your
Favorite Reading?
You will find in the “Bookstall” Series at least a dozen volumes that are
just the novels you like.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,
By LOUIS BECKE.
SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,
- By A. .T. BARRY.
Adventure.
THE TRADER,
By CECIL ROSS-JOHNSON.
TOM PAGDIX, PIRATE,
By E. J. BRADY.
OX His MAJESTY’S SERVICE,
By BOY BRIDGES.
H istorical
A REBEL OF THE BUSH,
By DON DELANEY.
\lownjj
FACT’RY ’ANDS,
By EDWARD DYSON.
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
THE MISSING LINK,
By EDWARD DYSON.
BRIDGET McSWEENEY,
By xHOS. E. SPENCER.
Sporting.
WOLAROI’S CUP,
By AMBROSE PRATT.
IN RACING SILK,
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
IN THE LAST STRIDE,
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
RUNG IN,
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
BIND AW ALLA,
By THOMAS E. SPENCER.
Romance.
THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER,
By RALPH STOCK,
THE BELLE OF THE BUSH,
By GEORGE DARRELL.
THE GOLDEN KANGAROO,
By AMBROSE TRATT.
Mining Stories .
BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGINEER,
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
FOR TURON GOLD,
By DON DELANEY.
THE CALLING VOICE,
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
CHANDLER OF CORK ALIN GA,
By R. J. CASSIDY.
Stories of the Bush.
ROCKY SECTION,
By SYDNEY PARTE ICE.
SCOTTY MAC, SHEARER,
By R. S. TAIT.
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS SELECTION STORIES.
1/- each —ALL ONE PRICE—I/1 posted.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO, LTD„
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Tramway Controllers
m
SOME SPECIAL FEATURES:
Exceptionally strong mechanical construction.
Simple mechanism with minimum number of parts.
All parts made to gauge and strictly interchangeable.
Liberal rating of all current carrying parts.
Low maintenance.
All wearing parts easily and cheaply renewable.
Renewable finger and drum arcing tips.
All parts easily accessible both for inspection and repairs.
Simple method of cutting out either motor, when required.
Most powerful magnetic controller blow-out on the market.
Constant finger tension irrespective of wear.
Stubbing entirely prevented bv special design of finger springs.
All connections are visible on removal of front cover.
Ample space for incoming cables.
Head Office for Australia:
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
mmrnmt
Manchester
iiiimiiiiiimtiiiiimiiiiiimmmiiimmiMiiMMiMMMiiiimmiiiMiimmimiiriiiiiitiiitiiiiimiiMi
Works—TraHord Park, Manchester, England.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD-SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE, AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IX CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general symptoms of worms are a
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching in the anus. Other symptoms are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply
pointed than the ground worm.
Young people are more subject to these
worms than middle-aged or elderly people.
r l hey live in the bowels, and sometimes make
their way into the stomach and throat, caus-
ing sickness, vomiting and choking. Gener-
ally one or two would be the most a person
would be afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger number is met with. The length
varies from four to eight inches, but young
ones an inch to two inches long are also
found. The first thing to do is to rid the
system of the worms, and Comstock’s "Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according to
directions, are an effective remedy for the
thorough eradication of the long round or
stomach worm —the common enemy of the
child, the youth, the middle-aged and aged.
A light, nourishing diet, out-of-door exercise,
and. if possible, a change of air, will greatly
improve the general health.
Threadworms or pinworms are of very
common occurrence in children. They are
very small, from one-sixtli of an inch to half-
an-inch in length, and resemble cotton
thread —-they are sometimes called seat
worms, and reside in the lower bowels. The
chief symptom of this worm is severe local
itching, restlessness and irritability, and a
frequent desire to urinate, picking at the
nose; loss of appetite and anaemia are also
observed. To get rid of the Avorms and their
eggs their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
"Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according
to directions, on an empty stomach, followed
by a dose of opening medicine, will succeed
where others fail.
Comstock’s "Dead Shot" Worm Pellets
are packed Avith full directions, and
are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 3s. Gd. per packet, or six
packets for 205., and if unable to obtain
locally AA’ill be mailed post free on receipt of
price. Prepared only by The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street. Sydney, N.S.W.;
Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
QUA
\
{.
The public are not pressed to buy Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills because they are an All-British product, neither
are they urged to buy them because for the past fifteen
years they have been manufactured entirely in Australia. These are no doubt very good
reasons why they should be urged on the attention of the public, but there is a far better one which
is the quality of the article. It is on the merits of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills alone that
they are presented to the public for their approval, and not because they are made in Australia or
are British-owned or any other reason, however good it may be. They stand purely on their
merits as an effective remedy for all complaints arising from a disordered digestion, and they are
to-day more extensively used by all classes of the community than any other remedy sold in
Australia. All classes of the community use them, male and female, rich and poor, young and
old. The merchant, the miner, the lady of society and the girl in the factory —they all find in this
remedy just what is required to keep the system in proper working order. Indigestion and
Constipation caused by improper or too much food or drink are quickly banished by a dose or
two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They are a safe, sure and reliable remedy
sold at a moderate price within the reach of all classes.


The Hun naval mutiny may not spell
immediate revolution, but it is a sure symp-
tom of the first stage of the fever thereof,
opines that wise spirit King George IY. top-
notch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALQOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Goap
LEWIS &WMITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
No razor’s edge has ever
been ground to that ex-
quisitely fine keenness you
get with the hard yet flexible
wafer blade of the
GiUdk?
fZIFuZLMm
NO STROPPING NO HONING
It took many years to make this per-
fect Gillette blade. But every Gillette
user knows what a pleasure it has
added to shaving. Take a packet
home to-night. Sold in cardboard
cartons.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. HofFnung & Co.. Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Saefty Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN THE
i
0
%
-
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Tliough surprises are always looked for in
a slow-run Cup race, nothing unexpected happened in
the Caulfield. The heavy going made it the slowest
for 28 years, yet the running throughout was strictly
according to recent form as calculated by tipsters
in Melbourne. Remmon, who had performed like a
squib in the Guineas, repeated his squiblike effort,
while Wedge and Pah King helped carry on the
pacemaking business after Remmon had fizzled out.
Also the consistent Rael Locin was always in the
front rank for the first mile or more, and he out-
lasted Wedge after turning into the straight. But
Bronzetti and Chrome had never been far away. A
furlong from home they were up with Rael Locin in
the lead, the next being Wallace Isinglass, who had
made up a lot of ground in the last half of the
journey. Mr. “Baron’s” handsome horse seemed
to have a bit of bad luck after entering the straight;
on the other hand he seemed to finish with less reso-
lution than the other three. The impression one
got of the race past the distance post was that
Bronzetti was being- ridden for all the colt was
worth, whilst Chrome was not being made the most
of by his jockey. Young Dempsey (6st. 131 b.)
appeared to push his mount along-, but boy Riley
(6st. 121 b.) had all he could do to keep the big four-
year-old Chronie up to the mark. They had both
stayed a trifle better than honest Rael Locin, and
the difference in jockeyship between Bronzetti and
Chrome was worth a neck victory to the former.
Wallace Isinglass was placed fourth. Of the other
20 starters King’s Bounty put up the best perform-
ance, for he was in the first half-dozen from end to
end of the argument.
De Gama, the sensational horse of the V.R.C.
Spring Meeting three years ago, scored his first vic-
tory since then in a welter race at Caulfield last
Saturday. De Gama can hardly be the brilliant
animal he was in his younger days, but he has
evidently recovered all the form that could be expected
of him, in spite of a tendency to roguishness.
Caulfield Cup was admittedly an open race in
which, as it happened, the punters made very few
mistakes in picking ’em. Melbourne Cup, at time
of writing, appears to be open to not more than six
candidates, with the favorite, Lanius, in the position
of a real good thing, bar accidents. It may be that
something unexpected wall turn up, but apart from
the tall and amiable English horse there are not half
as many apparent possibles as in most yea rs. Chrome
should have a fair chance, and Bronzetti, despite
his 101 b. penalty. Among the three-year-olds Broken
Glass is suspected of fine stamina. West court will
be dangerous if he stands up to his track work mean-
while. Harriet Graham is a , proved stayer who
has not been doing well of late, and has never done
anything to suggest that she is within 61b. of Lanius..
What else is worth talking of at the weights? The
Moonee Valiev Cup next Saturday is not likely to
affect the betting on the V.R.C. event.
Superstitious stockbrokers were disposed to back
Bronzetti for Caulfield Cup when they heard that
Clark and Robinson, in England, had drawn the gee
in their batch of Tatt.’s sweep tickets. The luck
of these owners is proverbial. Good luck has waited
on their good judgment all their business days.
Three or four years ago they bought a parcel of
2000 tickets in the 10-bob sweep on Melbourne Cup
and drew the first among a lot of prizes. But they
might have been luckier than they were when Lanius
won has first race in Australia at Flemington three
weeks ago. They cabled instructions to back their
champion for £5O or £5OO, according to whether
the animal was reckoned forward or backward in
his preparation. The stable advisers reckoned that
Lanius was not yet fit to carry the £5OO, so the
investment was only £5O. The odds, however, were
all the better on that account.
With Lanius in the same stable, and the
reputation of being the other leg in the stable
double, Chrome’s chance of winning Melbourne Cup
was bound to be ignored by most of the punters who
fancied the 4-year-old for the Caulfield event. Yet
his chance was undeniable. If a nag is any class
worth mentioning Bradfield is just" the trainer to
make a stayer out of it. And if Chrome was worth
backing for the one Cup he was a promising candi-
date for the other.
* * * *
At Moorefield (Sydney) on Saturday one
actual favorite arrived where it was wanted, and
there was something appropriate in the animal being
a recent performer at unregistered meetings. This
was Parsing, which had a comfortable win in the
Carlton Mile from IS others. Otherwise it was a
fairly bad day for the crowd, particularly when a
rank outsider materialised. Highland Band is a
useful-looking prad that was last year suspected of
an intention to do something. But, as he ran at
an up-country meeting without being sighted on
Wednesday, it was not supposed that he had improved
very much since making a couple of fruitless jour-
neys at Rosehill in June. This is just where the
assembled punter fell in. He found money for nearly
everything else in the race—and then heard the bag-
pipes. Yet they think they can pick ’em and keep
on trying!
* * * *
MacShortodds and co., carrying on busi-
ness in N. S. Wales, wake up at. night these times
and have a little private laugh. The totalisator
continues to get the fag-end of the betting, according
to forecast. Sydney went racing on Saturday at two
places—the ponies and Moorefield. The machine
attracted to itself £1205 for 13 races at the under-
size gathering, and £1560 for six races at the other
place. No one has yet explained what advantage is
gained by piling the ludicrous on the absurd and
paying for both. Nor has anyone been discovered
who will allege that a single person in the State had
asked for it. Is it helping anyone to pick winners?
Has any improvement been detected in the thorough-
bred horse? Is the thing helping us to win the war?
Or to keep down the cost of living? Or to make
repatriation a success? A few words from
the Ministry about what it has been trying to do
and what sort of a ’job it thinks lias been made
of it would come in useful to go oil with —if only as
a contribution to the prevailing amusement.
The little grey daughter of Merv (imp.)
and Dawn, known to Sydney pony sports as Lady
Liddell, carried list. 71b. to victory in the 14.1
Handicap at Victoria Park (Sydney) on Saturday.
She hit the front in the first furlong, was never
winded, and ran the four-and-a-half in “58*.” This
little nag would be hard to beat in a show-ring, and
she is as good as she looks. Being favorite she got
three cheers befpre the crowd rushed to collect.
“Spreader”: Almoner (No. 9), winner of
the Breeders’ Plate, is another instance of the luck
the Stead family of M.L. lias had with descendants
of Evening Star (imp.), the ancestress of Commo-
tion, Camoola, Trident and many other high-class
horses in N. S. Wales and Victoria. Cassock, dam
of Almoner, goes back through Monkshood, half-
sister to La Tosca. La Notte, dam of the cham-
pion Noctuiform and of Nightfall, was a daughter
of La Tosca by Eiridspord; and Class, dam of The
Toff, Bon Ton and Bon Reve, was by ~ allace from
La Tosca. Another line that old man Stead got -a
good run with came from Enid a half-sister by
Apremont to the great Sir Modred. Isolt was
prominent amongst this lot.
A horse has pulled off the same double two
years in succession in Maoriland. Twelve months
ago a gelding named Fiery Cross bagged the two
principal events at the Ashburton Spring Meeting.
This year the performance was repeated with a lot
more lead aboard.
Racing in India fills many pages of a
book of “Memories of Lord William Beresford,
V.C.,” brother of Lord Charles. Lord Bill was
Military Secretary to three Viceroys—Ripon, Duf-
ferin and Lansdowne-—and spent 16 years in India.
He joined forces in a racing stable with the Mahara-
THE RAJAH OF PUDUKOTA.
jah of Durbangah and later with the Maharajah of
Patiala. His favorite horse seems to have been
Myall King, an Australian by King Cob —Queen of
the Forest,” winner of the Viceroy’s Cup at Cal-
cutta in 1887, 1888 and 1890, besides other valu-
able races. Lord Bill had such an affection for
Myall King that when the horse broke his leg
whilst being schooled over hurdles, he erected a
monument to him at Barraekpore. It was this
Beresford who introduced Tod Sloan to England in
1897, and with this jock’s assistance his winnings
in England between 1896 and 1900 totalled £88,348.
The 14-hands Victorian pony Thumbs Up
is easily champion at the jumping game. At the
Melbourne Show his record was 6ft. lOin. But at
Bendigo a week later he topped that with 6ft. 10)in.
at the first attempt. This looks like a world’s record.
“Mick the Preacher” : Sports, shake with
“Bogie” Chapman. I have it from himself that he
was one of the best all-round horsemen in the Ma
State in his day. For many years he has been
associated with racing at Innisfail CN.Q.). and nt
a recent meeting on the Johnstone River he pulled
off a double w’ith Kestrel. “Bogie” never boots his
mounts home, as he always rides in his socks. He
swears that he saw the sun rise 70 years ago.
“Cherokee”: They were discussing in the
shearers’ hut the Charge of the Light Brigade, and
dissension arose as to the respective parts placed bv
Capt’n Crimson Nolan and Lord Blanky Cardigan.
The cook, an authority on all things human and
equine, was asked to settle the point. e '’
poisoner,” inquired the ringer, ‘‘was Lord Cardigan
killed at Balaclava?’ With a withering stare o
scorn the cook replied: “Sterrewth a mighty, Loid
Cardigan never ran at Balaclava!”
* * * *
So the gong has gone for old Bob
Fitzsimmons at last. Yet he was not old as men go,
though as a puncher he seemed an ancient almost
from the start. This was mainly because he only got
into the spotlight at an age when most men have
reached the slide. Bob hit the United States from
Australia in 1891 at the age of 29, and by knocking
out the famous Jack Dempsey intimated to all hands
thereabouts that he had arrived. The rest was a long
succession of wins and experiments in matrimony.
Fitz drew neither a color-line nor a weight-line, and
was soon battling with the best of the heavies. He
was 35 when he won the world’s championship from
Jim Corbett as a preliminary to being knocked by
Jim Jeffries. Up to that stage lie had fought 19
big battles over yonder without being beaten, and
until he was over 40 he continued one of the most
unpleasant enemies of the rising pug. Then came
the time of retrogression and living on reputation
and coming back to Australia at 45 to be woodened
out by a man like Bill Lang. Fitz’s exploits in the
ring have been written about and talked over so
often as to be commonplace. They all boiled down
to this—that he was perhaps the most remarkable
boxer of his own or any other time. That he was a
messer in nearly everything else doesn’t matter.
Behind that queer-shaped head and characterless face
was a brain which, in regard to the happenings inci-
dental to Bash, moved with uncanny quickness.
Physically he was a freak —made of good stuff, of
(oiirse, but with nothing like the endurance of many
men he defeated. Without that peculiar brain of
his Fitz would not have been heard of as a boxer
longer than it took to remove the cold meat. He
was 55 at the finish, a worn-out, garrulous battler,
half clown and half hero, getting a crust as an evan-
gelist of some sort with the wife who last divorced
him. There was a great pathos about it, for he
should have been a rich man. When in later times
Robert heard of the cash earned by his successors he
relieved his feelings by calling for the police.
* * * *
“Trot'’: Bob Fitzsimmons, for a long time
spoken of as an Australian, mostly because it was at
Larry Foley’s old White Horse academy that he
first became famous, was born out in Cornwall
(Eng.), and came into Maoriland as a youngster. 1
can dimly remember the long, shambling individual
who used to pass up the road at Timaru in the
evenings with an empty tucker-bag over his shoulder,
dirty with the grime and sweat of toil at a shoeing-
forge, the face sporting a downy foliage of red which
seemed in a hurry to cover a loose, sloppy mouth.
It was a very ugly mputh, and when I saw it again
in Sydney, Fitzsimmons being then a middle-aged
man, I knew it again at once, and knew, too, that
it explained most of what had happened to him out-
side the ring in the meantime. In those faraway
Maoriland days he would have been about 22, and
must have had some reputation even then as a
puncher, because the little kids in the neighborhood
viewed him over the fence with respect. Perhaps
it was because of the laborious years he spent at the
anvil until reaching manhood that Fitzsimmons
lasted so long in the ring. Certainly he went into
the business with a constitution unimpaired by the
excesses which so often undermine the athlete at an
early age. His vitality was amazing. Look at the
list of top-notch performers he walloped when he
was between 30 and 45 —Dempsey, Peter Maher, God-
frey, Kellar, Jim Hall, Daly, Dan Creedon, Corbett,
Ruhlin, Sharkey. During those years of real scrap
only one man of any weight appeared on the scene
who was his master —Jim Jeffries. James gave him
the knock twice, once when Robert was 37 and next
when he was 40. Yet what did he get out of it
all ? With the gloves off he was just a boob. That
fatal mouth again ! He would have been better off
and happier and perhaps have lived longer had he
stuck to the manufacture of boots for Maoriland
horses.
“Billy T.”: A 1 Neil, the middle-weight
boxer who showed Australians so many points in
the game, was the cutest American of them all. He
was a pure business man, and didn’t care to win
unless it was necessary. He was frugal too, and
had settled down near Black Rock (Melb.) for a
time. There he had for a neighbor a wild Irishman
whose only known name was Mike. “Mad Mike” he
was called when people wished to be more specific.
Mike couldn’t fight a bit, but he rather liked to
try; in fact, he would fight anyone or anything
for any reason or no reason. Neil was preparing to
meet Ruenalf the Maori, and Billy Williams, who
was managing, said: “You’ll be wanting a sparring
partner, Neil?” Neil shook his head. “Don’t have
it on your mind,” he answered. “I’ll just pick a
quarrel with Mike!” And he did. He was very fit
when he met Ruenalf.
The crack eighteen-footer Kismet will not
race this season in Port Jackson. Skipper W. Dunn,
who sailed the craft for the owners, J. and T. Ravell,
has received word that one has been killed and the
other reported missing. It happened in France.
Kismet indeed!
D. L. McAlister, once Australia’s cham-
pion rifle-shot, has been killed on the Western Front.
McAlister was the winner of the King’s Prize at
Sydney, Adelaide and Bislev (England), and of the
service champion match of Scotland. He got his
first sighter on the world at Gundagai (N.S.W.).
* * * *
Bowled by a Hun—Lieut. Fred B. Col-
lins, cricketer. A champion at school, Collins began
with East Melbourne when he was 16, and before
he was 19 hopped into the State eleven. In his
first rep. match (against S.A.) he took six wickets
for 81 in the first innings, and was looked upon as
a future Australian XI man. An injury subse-
quently hampered him to some extent, and expecta-
tions were not fully realised, but for 10 years he
was one of Victoria’s stock bowlers. In Sheffield
Shield matches he took 87 wickets at an average
cost of 30 runs, and against English teams 20 at an
average of 21. Only 36.
* * * *
“Magpie”: McHale, who nowadays
coaches the Collingwood outfit, has a wonderful
playing record. He has completed his 15th vear
with the team, missing only about 10 games, most
of them this year. At one period he had played in
200 consecutive matches, which is probably a
record in any branch of football. Collingwood’s
players are noted stickers. Two others, Monahan
and Proudfoot, played for 15 seasons. There is a
list of 14 others who were 10-year men. The club
was formed in 1892. Trainer Wal Lee, father of
t s?. e , 1 champion goal-getter, began in that year and is
still going strong. Two original committemen,
Cross and Joyce, still sit at the meeting-table.
“Bails” : Major Ben Wardill, dead at 75
was in some respects the most notable man that Ml
bourne cricket has known. He was secretary nf nT
M.C.C. from 1879 to 1910. As a player he had not be™
first class, like his unfortunate brother R \y vlt
dill. Ben came to Melbourne from England in 18ri
and was for many years a clerk with the Colonial
Sugar Co. When he took over the secretaryshin n
the M.C.C. there were 572 members and an inonrm,
of £2943. When he dropped out there were ri-vj
members and an income of .£13,000. He manaawl
three Australian elevens in England. One of hi=
sidelines was rifle-shooting, and he was in the
team that visited Philadelphia Exhibition in ikvk
and went on to England.
Frank Carberry, the smartest of N.S.W
professional swimmers last season, won the Waverlev
(Sydney) 66yds. handicap from scratch in 38 l-s se c
Carberry is a splendidly-built 20-year-old Australian
12st., and 6ft. without his boots. A. W. Barrv’
holder of N. S. Wales amateur record for this dis-
tance (34 l-ssec.), will not trouble the timekeeper
any more if the story is true that he lately lost a
leg at the war.
“Sandy”: Apropos the 17-year-old lad
from Sydney Tech., who cleared sft. sin. in the high
jump (B. 11/10/’l7). Ray Browne, under 16, did
the same thing at the Christian Bros.’ sports, 'Bris-
bane, a few weeks ago, after winning the 100 yards
(llsec.), 120 hurdles and 440 yards championships,
and running unplaced in the four furlongs. But
being a Bananalander this kid has never had
a fair chance, the climate having had such disastrous
effect upon him that he measures only 6ft. endways
and cannot make more than list. 41b. on the scales.
An old-time stunt was resurrected at
Ashfield (Sydney) on Saturday, when W. W. Hunt
(the Ma State top-notch sprinter) was pitted against
amateur bike champion G. Halpin for a 100yds. whiz.
The cyclist won by 3yds. in 9 3-ssec. Watches made
Hunt leave the 97yds. behind in a yard under “evens.’’
“Evens” is the best in the N. S. Wales amateur
record book ; but W. T. Macpherson and J. H. Hempton
put up 9 4-ssec. in M.L., and Macphereon did the
same distance in 9 9-10 sec. in Victoria. The world's
amateur figures (9 3-ssec.) belong to Arthur Duffey
and other Yankees. Jack Donaldson (Australia)
holds the professional figures (9§sec.).
“Trigger”: Metropolitan (Sydney) Dis-
trict Rifle Union hardly deserves applause for the
alteration in the season’s competitions. For many
years the Union has fired championship matches at
distances from 300yds. to 1000yds. ; this season the
longest range will be 900yds. In last season’s matches
Parramatta’s highest score at 1000yds. (416) only
averaged 52 (out of a possible 70), while at the
shorter ranges club averages flew up as high as 66.
On averages, therefore, the Union should have put
more long ranges on the programme to encourage
marksmanship, instead of fooling about close to the
target. It is a waste of good money in powder and
ball to put a 300yds. range in the championship
class.
“John Quill”: A singular method of prac-
tice contributed greatly to the success of Edwin
Evans, ex-international cricketer, mentioned by
“Jewba” (B. 27/9/’l7). AVhen he was at Fort-street
School, Sydney, 45 years ago a master named Coats,
himself an international, was encouraging break-
bowling, which was then just coming into vogue-
in Australia, at least. Coats had one stump placed
upright: then two parallel lines, eight inches apart,
were drawn from the stump down the pitch. Coats
required the ball to be pitched outside these lines,
break in and strike the stump. Every time a youn-
ster accomplished this feat Coats would hand him
sixpence, but Evans acquired such skill that the
patron was compelled to abolish the prize. ■ .. . '
* * * *
“Nomo” : Some of the Sydney-side motor-
cyclists are the warmest things ever when it comes
to borrowing. If you come with me you can bet on-
finding some of them pulled up on the roadside out
of benzine and being only anxious to annex sufficient
to get them back to town. They will be nursing a
bottle guaranteed to hold a quart or so which they
want filled up gratis. Requests on the road for a
patch, lubricating and other oil are so numerous as
to suggest that some of these battlers are “whalers”
in a new disguise.
“Eryander” : T 7 e quail is the gamest of
the game. In my pert of the world, where the bird
is known as the “wet-my-feet”—from the cock’s call
—it is netted in great numbers when mustering for
its autumn migration to Africa, and the captives
have to be kept in darkened cages to prevent the
males from battling. In China quail-fighting is a
time-honored institution, and in Malaya it has partly
displaced the traditional cock-fighting. I used to
see consignments of quail from China being landed
in the Moluccan ports; the hens and half-growns in
crates of hundreds together, but every cock in soli-
tary confinement, to prevent hostilities. “We some-
times take a pair out,” said a young mate to me,
“and fight ’em in the ’tween-decks, and I never yet
saw one give in. ’Twould always have been to the
death, if we had let ’em.”


I here is a Way to
Perfet!l Health!
V /
That way is open to YOU. Will you travel it?
The only way to improve Nature is through natural
methods.
Drugs and apparatus usually show no results, and are often
injurious. Under my method fifteqp minutes each day in
your own room are sufficient. 1 have thousands of students
a ll parts of Australia and New Zealand who are now
enjoying good health. Previously a large number of these
people were sufferers from indigestion, constipation and
other disorders which are the direct result of the internal
muscles being much below normal.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health ? Then why
not write to-day for full particulars of my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture?
This is proof of what I say:—
“Dear Sir, —I am getting along splendidly with my
exercises. My weight has increased 151 b., chest expan-
sion liin., waist ljin., calf Jin., forearm neck
lin. “(Signed) J. 8., Bodangora, N.S.W.”
Many hundreds of letters from pupils all over Australia and
New Zealand are in the same strain.
I should like you to have my booklet, “HEALTH 4ND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells about
my methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address
across this ad. and send it to me, with three penny stamps
for postage.
REG. L. csnowy) BAKER,
645 Belmont
Buildings, Sydney.
r,
tr?
THE CHOICE
Of THE PEOPLE
THE WORLD’S BEST
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
Catalogue with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co
PTV.
LTD.
‘Australian Glory ’
Egyptian Cigarettes.
Aust **uam
Just Landed
Another Shipment of these
Choice Cigarettes, the
product of Nestor Gianaclis
Ltd., Cairo.
We were fortunate to land this shipment at the old price, consequently the price is
as usual, viz.:—
8/6 per 100. Postage paid.
Why not try a packet of 10? Forwarded anywhere for 1/-
A. Kebblewbite, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
"The Old Established House,**
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
J
i'XSw.,'?
M.
r-
U-
'EM
:?s%4w;
~"^&s
• •-
NATION^
tv" I
: ■
• .Vv
«iW: r#sW‘
18181
ÜBitt
**T 0(
hationa l
S^XUIY
NATIONAL
_ BENZINE
Year in year out, National Benzine comes from
the same rich oil field and undergoes the same _
processes of refinement. THAI' is why the wonderful
service-giving qualities of the “National” Spirit NEVER
vary, but yield, mile after mile, the same prime power—responsive, consistent,
clean and economical.
In —hot or cold; under ANY condition of travel—city street,
bush track or sand ; with ANY type of motor-car, truck, boat, cycle or farm
or factory plant—National Benzine will give the SAME service of perfection.
IT IS THE SPIRIT THAT WILL PAY YOU BEST on all points of
economy, efficiency and sweet running.
Obtainable all Garages & Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney. JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
nk
;\ --
H
0
iW
» «
• f *t W I -=
k • * V » «» fr «, -J , J
Q
-*■
r^l—^ c•; - h « * vi ** t
it
f* W u*
* i 7
.
>v.
I 3
m&m
•Y'l
£t*«
JgS
iftill
■•;>.' A
-A - ’*' 4
•:• *
sks
'.<■*■> *OL
ZISKZ&
jSSCi*
Sfevs
SR®
-:rv?S
■<&
iVESV*
■
3&P
*'i2,>n
'^•r.-v
afs&
'r *
*v-
T
or®
lsp«
x~?,r f~>
*j.v.
'■x
i'Si'i
lIBSIII
%!*V
V •
&
(©)
s.
a
> ; ;/* j v *
■■■y.i-r>-
■&*m.
&&
*
m
m.
•. K'.i;,
«. /
[W?
•.■'•*« vK
fpl . '. *’•.•”
- __ . ,' ' ,
v:-v
;,> i
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
Wasting Disorders
Price 2/6 bottle
SOMEWHERESJfBaMIIIi
%
&
\
w
f ¥
'Z./.r--'--
" ' J
O--c-:
/ '■ ,
■V /
mtffi
■m mi
iw,
uv./y//
MUM!
Ml!
it/''
mm
\w
m
m
WH
m
m
i -M :!
l < : Yi
ifKii fc
. v>«
wi r.V.IrS
vs .
v\* »
IV, L ; . 1: *
\\ ■ [\
L Somewhere in France your, brothers, sons, relatives,
friends are fighting powerful foes. Not only are
opposed by an enemy equipped with every
death-dealing device knoy/n to military science, but
they have ,to contend | with another opponent whose
attacks are even more insidious and whose efforts
are unceasing--" General Winter.” L f
-r. : ; / I f'\. \\( S'/ /
-.The Military Vest has proved aijippn and\pf Vital
'■Necessity to men engaged in Trench Warfare during
the Winter season, and to send an Australian fSoldier
“one of these Garments is to confer a personal Benefit
•Oft him and to. materially assist the cause of the Alii#
-The garments quoted below have all proved thei?
worth ip actual use on Active Service. \ f\ ( |,
Sheepskin Vests - 14/6
* Wool Back and Front. Selected
Pelt*. Warm, and will last a
lifetime.
Tan Leather Vests, 21/-
Soft, Chrome Tanned—Water-
proof. Khaki or Tweed Lined. /
j/
Rabbit Fur Vests -15//
Specially treated to tender vermin.* |
proof*;; Khaki or Tweed Lined*
Flannel Lined 17/6, Wate “
Tan Leather
> With Half-Sleeves
Tweed Lined.
vs*, 35/-;
FuH
; For an Extra Payment of 1/3 in the caie of -fur or leather
he. Case of Sheepskin VestsLeather,(Ji&icet*- we will ’
in Strong White Calico and forward Paid to the
m&msm siw


Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
-■egular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
Carter^
►ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
TO MAKE
DELICIOUS JELLIES
USE ONLY
JELLINE
PURE FRUIT JUICES USED
FOR ALL FLAVORS.
Manufactured by
JL PARRY & CO.,
WATERLOO, SYDNEY.
Agents.
BRISBANE : A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.
MELBOURNE: P. W. HEYMAN.
HOBART: AGENCIES LTD.
ADELAIDE: AGENCIES LTD.
Hansen’s Rheumatic Remedy
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) C. A. ROSLER. J.R.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
WHolesale : ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT, MELBOURNE.
IT’S GREAT
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; K, R. Russaek, 377 a
Elizabeth St., Sydney; Philip Frankel
and Co., Edward St., Brisbane; Eyes
and Crowle Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide;
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth,
W.A.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of eases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and <?nld by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ehtab. 1891,
| F anybody in Australasia charges you more than
' 6d. for a single copy of The Bulletin, send
:l 6s. 6d. to 211 George Street, Sydney, and it will
be posted to you for one year. To any address
abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Carry an ONOTO with you
To the business man, the student, the soldier or
sailor, the wife at home, no better advice can be
given than “carry an ONOTO with you.”
The ONOTO is the British made Fountain Pen that fills itself in a flash
from any ink supply' —cannot leak and cleans itselt in tilling. Ihe ink
flow can be regulated to suit your style of writing. It never scratches,
never splutters, and—may we repeat it ?—never leaks.
SELF
FILLING
SAFETY
fountain
0
0
0
PEN
Price 14/6
and upwards. Also
ONOTO Valveless for those
who do not want a Self-Filling
Safety Pen, from 10/6 upwards
From all stationers, jewellers, and stores.
Manufacturers: Thos Dk I,a. Rue & Co., I*td
259 Bunhill Row, Condon, K.C. Managing Agents: Norman Baker & Conghurst,
York Street, Sydney.
a
I
The British Brand protects you
against foreign-made inferior goods
91
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
No German or other foreign make can compare with
this best British brand, for fineness of finish andsilky
comfort. Australasian pure wool is used in the
manufacture of Jason, by the world's best
hosiery makers —the people of Leicester.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
Tabonevery pair. Draper? andOuthtterseverywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eng.
Aabs ®
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK OF VICTORIA.
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1841.
Commissioners::
IV. BELL .JACKSON, Esq.. Chairman. G. ANGUS YOUNG, Esq.
IV. G. McBEATH, Esq., J.P. CHARLES FORRESTER, Esq.
Major-General J. IV. MeCAY. C.B. IV. WARREN KERR, Esq. (Deputv Commissioner).
Inspector-General—GEOßGE E. EMERY, J.P.
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1917.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Total amount at credit of Depositors
~ £28,656,994
CREDIT FONCIER DEPARTMENT.
This Department issues debentures, and with the proceeds makes advances on farms, houses
shops.
The amount of advances made during the year was as follows:
On Farm Securities .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £173,630
On Houses and Shops . . . . . . . . .. . . 353.885
and
Total of new advances
The total number and amount of loans current at 30th June were
3,824 Farm Securities, for . .
8,983 House and Shop Securities, for
Total number 12,807
Total amount
Net Prolit for year in Credit Foneier Department. .
Reserve Fund of Credit Foneier Department
. . £527,515
as follows: —
. . £1,918,028
. . 2,427,595
. . £4,345,623
£15,623
£142,064
GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General.
Head Office, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, 16th October, 1917.
IN A “JIFFY”
The work’s done in a jiffy with a razor like the
“Plum.” No face-hacking annojances. The blade is
tempered to the highest pitch of excellence, and
remains keen indefinitely.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE, 10/6—POST FREE.
Me keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor. Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
The steady military push-back that is
beginning to worry the heart out of the Ger-
mans has raised the spirits of, Antonia
Dolores to the contemplation of another pro-
fessional tour. When the war started and
the Huns befouled her native France, the sad
Dolores thought she would sing no more in
public, save for war funds, until France was
free from the devastating hog. Now that
ever-victorious Hindenberg is advancing
backwards in quest of further triumphs the
songstress reckons it a fair thing to antici-
pate the Huns’ howl for peace by arranging
another concert tour. As a preliminary to
the campaign Dolores will give a concert at
Melbourne Town Hall on November 10, on
behalf of the “Lucky Hag” appeal for blind
and incapacitated Anzac-s.
“Minim”: Re-enter Mascagni. The com-
poser of “Cavalleria Rusticana” recently
produced a new opera in Rome. Title,
“Lodoletta.” Plot, founded on “Ouida’s”
novel, “Two Little Wooden Shoes.” Music,
recalling 17th century Italian compositions
in places, is judged to be the composer's best
to date. Lira, Pietro!
“High Jinks'.’ run close on 400 times in
London before withdrawal. Oscar Asche
reached the 400 in July with “Chu Chin
Chow,” and looked good for the rest of the
year. The firm which takes this play to
America exchanges for it “Experience,” the
quite-modern “morality” already described
in The Bulletin as immensely successful
in the U.S.A.
“Stargazer”: Seeing young Majeroni > (not
so very young either when one comes to
think of it) in a film version of “The Eternal
City” the other evening. I was given a
glimpse of 11. G. Wells’s idea of immortality
in action. There was the elder Majeroni we
u|ed to see in Australian theatres, heaven
knows how many years ago. completely re-
incarnated. Size, figure, face. eye. hair,
whiskers, expression—it was the first of the
Majeronis, so far as Australia knew him.
The part was acted, too, precisely as
Majeroni senior would have acted it. “<)
grave, where is thy victory?” There was
another brother, but so like the other that
possibly this is he.
“0.K.” : Picture shows are steadily eating
into the old theatre business. They have
their clientele of regular first-nighters, like
the musical-comedy houses, and nowadays a
number of the same people have their seats
booked at both places. Hoyt’s De Luxe, in
Melbourne, gets a Saturday-night audience
which is quite equal in social tonnage to the
crowd at an ordinary Williamson show.
Some of the sassiety that rarely goes to a
giddy musical entertainment these times is
frequently at Hoyt’s. Apparently the war
has recommended pictures to the Very Best
people. While soldier-dramas have been falling
flat, films of battle and military preparations
have given another impetus to the movies.
They were absurdly bad prophets who used
to talk of the “boom” in cinematograph
shows and predict an early collapse.
Fred Leslie and Ivy Shilling have places
in the new London Empire revue. “Topsy-
Turvy,” and have again made a hit. Their
Apache dance was the most applauded item
on the first night.
“8.J.”: George Birmingham, who wrote
“General John Regan.” now at Melbourne
Majesty’s, is in private life Canon Hanuay.
Others who have divided their talents be-
tween altar and footlights are the Rev.*J.
Bate, an eighteenth-century playwright;
Rev. Horne, whose “Douglas” excited a con-
troversy which shook the Scotchbyterian kirk
to its foundations; the Rev. Young, whose
“Revenge” was acted by Kean : and the Rev.
Maturin, who was responsible for “Bert-
ram.” a bloodcurdling tragedy. Incidentally
the most long-winded history of the English
stage was perpetrated by a parson, the Rev.
.T Genest. In Australia we have the Rev.
George Walters, who supplied “Joseph of
Canaan.” and the Rev. Hillhouse Taylor,
who wrote the version of “Parsifal” in which
Tittell Prune appeared some years back, and
also collaborated with Tom Spencer in “Mrs.
McSweeney.”
IMPRESSIONABLE ANA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Sarah Ann is short and thick,
Her eyes are out of plumb ;
But Sarah Ann is very quick
To see the lilins that come.
She loves the picture hero prime,
She dotes on heroines;
For films of death, deceit and crime
All day poor Sarah pines;
And when she's scanned
A play well planned
We get the lot at second-hand.
If Sarah sees a guileful dame
Beset a simple man,
And drag him down to sin and shame,
Oh, fierce is Sarah Ann !
Then all the day she glowers at me
With sly, seductive eyes.
But when the handmaid’s chanced to see
A lady pure and wise,
Nobody can
Be sweeter than
Our sentimental Sarah Ann.
When Sarah Ann is terse and cold
We know that she has seen
A servant girl endowed with gold
Become a social queen ;
But when she’s gentle, kind and grave
And speaks no word of blame
We know she’s seen the housemaid save
The rich old man from shame,
And prove his son
Was not the one
Who shot his auntie with his gun.
The other day Ann faced my wife.
“You know no villains, ma’am ;
There are no fellers in your life
That seek your ’opes to damn.
There’s no one wants to steal the child,
The boss the cops don’t seize—
This ’ome fair makes a body wild.
I give you notice, please.
I'in going to slope,
And find, I ’ope.
A place that gives a girl some scope!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


3L Beale Player Piano
IN many respects piano making is an art. The rules that apply
to the usual manufacturing problem will not hold, for a
piano may be well and honestly made, yet be hopeless as a
musical instrument.
Tone —that is the first and most important consideration. Then
action, beauty, and a host of other attributes whose development
requires the specialist craftsman.
The Beale organisation is a band of experts —steadfastly uniting their efforts
toward a common objective. That objective is to produce a Piano and Player-
piano whose name shall stand a permanent tribute to Australian skill and industry.
Write for descriptive literature.
//HI
I
w
vrm
i ' nrv
l
wVit
rain
• «.<
af
i/
«
*»
Fixing the Iron Frame. One of our ex-
perts is shown here carefully adjusti g
the measurements of the briage, so as.to
ensure the correct pressure upon the Sound-
board. This bridge acts in a similar
manner to the bridge of a violin ana
transmits the vibrations of the strings to
the Sound-board. It is such care at ell
stages of manufacture which makes the
Beale the fine instrument it is.
Stringing the Iron Frame. This is
Work, that is not so simple as it sounds.
Each note has to be provided with wire
of the correct diameter as this influences
the tension of the string. One of our
experts is shown in the act of stringing
up an upright frame.
Showrooms : 333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Factories: 41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
And at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South
Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Kent Street, Maryborough. Flinders Street, Townsville. Rockhampton. Sydney Street, Mackay. Cairns.


THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing- Aurists of the
day.T-The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone many times as efficient
, - XT . . and powerful as the old
model Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
he finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
ana for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORQE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Ino. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Tl\e Secret of a Long',
Happy Life.
A TREATISE of priceless value written by a
specialist in the treatment of stomach and bowel
troubles has just been published, explaining the
Causes, Effects and Treatment of Constipation.
It tells how Nature will restore your birthright
of Health, Success and Happiness without the use
of medicines, injections, special foods, laborious exer-
cise qr apparatus.
Elbert Hubbard says: “In the race of life the
man with educated bowels will eclipse the man with
an educated brain.”
FREE TO ALL AVHO DESIRE IT.
This enlightening work—the result of years of
experience and study—will be sent you by return
mail absolutely free. Write to-day. Enclose 2d.
postage.
J. P. GALE,
237 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TIME TO TAKE A TONIC.
The time to take a tonic is any time that
one feels run down and lacking in necessary
energy, when the blood is weak and thin,
and when the nerves are run down and have
lost their tone. Tonics are the most widely
used of all medicines. They are the medi-
cines which restore the various bodily
organs, muscles and nerve cells from a lax
and sluggish state to one making them
capable of normal activity. Tonics impart
a sense of well-being and strength. They
are not to be confused with stimulants, which
may give an immediate false strength. There
are tonics for the nerves, blood and stomach,
but undoubtedly the most useful one is one
having a combined effect and generally bene-
fiting the system.
Undoubtedly the best-known tonic is Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. These pills have
established a high reputation as a blood
builder and nerve tonic. Their action helps
to make thin blood rich and red, enabling it
to carry nourishment to weak and inflamed
nerves, increase the appetite and make diges-
tion normal, correct sleeplessness and most
forms of headaches. Try them for any
trouble caused by thin blood or weak nerves,
such as anaemia, rheumatism, neuralgia,
sciatica, lumbago, indigestion, sick headache
or St. Vitus’ dance.
Any reader of this paper may have a
useful booklet on “Building Up the Blood”
by writing to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
"BIFF” Makes Walking
a Comfort and Joy'
War-Time
Economy
ft
I Mm uu'-
<c
/
V'
WP
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
“BIFF” is a scientific compound which draws out
all poisonous matter from the pores of the skin,
leaving the skin in a perfectly healthy condition,
to perform its natural functions. This unique
compound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
"Before using ‘BIFF' I could scarcely walk, now
I can nearly run,"—Mr. E. R„ Victoria.
"Ihave been using ‘BIFF’ for chilblains on my
feet, and have found great relief.”—
Miss A,K., N.s.W.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking: Botanical Gardens.
m.
1
The “Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The'Bulletin"
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make
They both have pigskin seat, the “G.S”'
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle
£7/0/6 Complete.
£6/15/6 without Stirrups.
£6/9/6
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales. / • ,v>Js
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 13/6; post, 1/.
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, 9d.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, if in
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The Kemp Saddle
AS USED BY
PROFESSOR KEMP
OF
BUCK JUMPING FAME.
In this saddle it is impossible for rider to
be thrown on to head of saddle, while it
also has all the benefits of stock kneepads
without their disadvantages. See how the pads are brought
high up, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts are
made in one piece of kip leather, making a wonderfully
comfortable seat. The fittings included are Solid Nickel
3B Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£8,15/ - Complete, or £B/5 / - without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Cash with order.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.
1
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it really is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostoek ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostoek No.
Q9BOO
A
m
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
826
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
“! ft
keeping Vlll p ac l^ ordin g 1 y try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
ineffectual 'n™? water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
are too severe on 'the enamel.’ SUCh 3S cuttlefish ’ crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoa
the I^n3ASTE^iis^ c - entifically P re P ared to clean the teeth, sweeten
EUDENTA is thprpfnrr. 1 disin fect the mouth (thus preventing decay)-
where * Post free l/’-t a & arded as ‘the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every -
_.° S 1 tree 1/o ' * ree sample posted. ROC T TE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; -and no MS. ivill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
V. (and others) : Every typewritten slip
should have the name of the writer on it. Otherwise
how can we know who to credit it t0?....R0ad
Knight: Yes; but it’s of little interest... .R.R.R.:
“It is simply not worth an Australian author’s while
to write a play.” Depends on the author. .. .A.G.V.:
Rubbish.... Haka: Canon Nevill (M.L.) has been
writing down “the audacious Australians,” has ihe?
Well, don’t tell a soul, and then no soul will ever
kn0w....G.: What do you know about it? Was it
genuine or a swindle? M.C.: Doesn’t matter; he
was a good Australian... .R.H.G.: Thanks. Your
dream will come true; but not in your time....
Pinkie: You have this distinction—your par. is the
worst that has come to hand for 14 days....
Stung: Afraid you’ve got no verse sense at all.
G.D.L.: Nothing in it... . A.R.H.: Mere wobble
and bump.... W.W.A.: Tedious stuff without an
original word or thought. .. .C.V.J.: Oh, we’ve seen
worse. (P.S. —But no( so very often.)....
Learner: It joggles along in a hopeless fashion....
P.1.C.A.: If you want to write verse you’ll have to
take the trouble to do it... .R.E.: Tame little thing.
. ...D.S.: Your fiery cross won’t flame here....
H.A.F.: Awful stuff... .Pentano: Not up... . V.G.C.:
Correct verse with no lift or force... .Ixion: Slight,
weak and badly rhymed... .A. 0.: It’s a long way off.
... . Messines: They don’t strike u5....W.5.: Send
it to a printer. We’re not general agents....
E.M.J.: Charming domestic incident:—
Paddy Malone and Sheila, his wife,
Were having their usual scrap,
And scratching and thumping and yelling in strife,
When there presently came a rap.
Father O’Toole stood outride the door,
With horror and blame in his eye.
“Shure,” he said, “see the dog and the cat on the
floor,
How peacefully there they lie!
“With never a bite or snarl or yell,
Or bad tempers running rife,
Whilst you, supposedly better, a hell
Are making each other's life.”
“Ah, father,” said Pat, a sly grin on his face,
“Your argumint’s all very well;
But how do ye think they’d get on just in case
They were tied up together a spell?”
. ...A.L.8.: Not up.... Rene Roo : N 0... .E.N.D.:
She doesn’t flap to any purpose. .. .Arthur R.
(Fiji): N 0... .E.J.G.: That dirge about Spring
has no hope.... J.K.8.: The gum-tree demands
a gladder song than that C. J.W.: The day
when you can make a good song of it hasn’t yet
arrived... .T.A.: A plain yell that starts off by
rhyming “drums” with “sons” has no hope....
R.M.8.: “The Vision” is a feeble, commonplace
arrangement of words that say nothing. .. .Night
Watchman: Far too rugged G.A.M.C.: Sorry; but
it doesn’t... .E.J.C.: Idea not well enough worked
out Buzfuz: They miss, but not by much
A.J.K.: You’ll have to make a great many more
attempts before you get anyhere near... .R.L.R.:
Nobody could miss the classic grandeur of it: —
The cruel taste for dirty Gin
Makes some inclined to flirt with sin,
And yet we shout out “Fill-’em-up”
Until we’re like the Poisoned Pup.
Some like dark brandy, so I’ve read ;
There’s nothing like it when half dead,
But ah ! it’s false as woman fair ;
In fact, they’re both a lovely pair.
...D.M.: “Gates” must go back K.: Goes
brightly, but doesn’t say much... .Merino: Moves
very heavily... .C.A.: Those stars haven’t got an
effective twinkle... .D.H.P.: Nice idea, but verse
bumps it to death... .P.E.G.: Feeble groping for the
easiest rhymes Morris Garde: You have a crude
0ut100k.... K.A.H.: Some promise in them....
Amen: You’re an amazing sort of ass L.P.J.: Try
that “King of the Plains” again and see if you can’t
put a finer edge on it J.M.: Sample:—
The sweet scented flowers their bosoms will heave
To welcome our daring and gallant Boys,
Though disabled are cheerful as when they did leave
To face a withering fire and deaf’ning noise.
For freedom they fell by their comrades’ side
And were nursed by our angles of love with pride.
. ...G.C.: Flutters feebly into nothingness D.G.P.:
Appears to be about as full of emotion as a tele-
gram relating to the price of sawdust. .. .Rowley C.:
One will scrape through ; the other, though better
in most respects, is spoiled by bad rhymes.. . .J.W.:
Write the Chief Sec.’s Dept C.V.M.: Argument
about it wouldn’t be worth the space....A.: Already
heard that breathless story about the Melbourne
youth who refused to tell the German Admiralty the
whereabouts of the British fleet. Von Tirpitz assures
The Bulletin that it isn’t true Curlawee: Send
them along; first one not up Flyspeck : Yes •if
they re up. Aou seem to have the idea... .Anxious
Mother: It rests entirely with the Minister. Place
the facts unreservedly before the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Defence, Melbourne. You’ll find them at
least sympathetic.
TO ARTISTIC CAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Phil D.: What do all those scratches mean?....
R.A.K.: Promising; when you’ve improved 100 per
cent, try again. .. .G.W.R.: We don’t deal in weep-
ing cows. ... J.F.: Why waste your beautiful violet
ink on those old jokes H.P.: Your “Possible
Recruit” failed to pass the doctor M.C.: No seven-
teenth-class Gibson girls, thanks F. 8.: Cockroach
joke insecticided... .T.T.R.: Not much promise;
sound tuition is the only hope E.L.: Drawing
almost as poor as the joke.
The Vic. House of Sloth has considered,
amid loud giggles, a Local Government Bill
to enable municipalities to sell fish and milk.
Labor-councillor ,T. P. Jones, who has a
tailoring business, advocated the bill, and
was asked by Horace -Richardson, a Geelong
auctioneer, if he would like to have munici-
pal tailors’ shops. (More giggles.) But
Richardson would find a difficulty in proving
that a municipal pants-supply would percep-
tibly lower the death-rate, ‘if he could, a
well-regulated community would promptly
put Jones, M.L.C., under closer supervision.
That it doesn’t do it to the vendor of
unwholesome milk is almost wholly due to
the fact that infants who can’t make much
of a kick are the principal sufferers. The
wicked idea is that “a lot of kids die, any-
how,” and that it is such a natural thing
for them to do that if they didn’t die of one
thing they would of another. So we just
let ’em die—and God have mercy on our
souls! Including the souls of the Vic. Leg.
Councillors, if they have any.


ouwKO
mi
>• 5
r
n
4
- ■ C
I<*v»-
>•"
<?
--PP~-P'-
SS)S
3
MSN
•=--v
i»
-AM
m
vp
c
PK
\ /
✓
- •>•*■*
ll^SSilßu^
- .
:u.^
Ji:-
X
: -,'-
■■■•■
®5
;?
fev?£><
■
*■■:■.'■
si
M' 1 :
* /
,*f ! :;
/
The Last Word in Approval
Judged superficially, the
fact that Goodyear Tyres
are sold in increasingly
larger quantities through-
out Australia and New
Zealand than perhaps
any other brand, might
not seem of paramount
importance.
Magnitude does not in-
variably mean merit;
numbers do not infallibly
prove quality.
But when it is remembered that
these sales mean preference by
motorists for Goodyear Tyres
backed-up with their hard-won
cash the fact becomes over-
whelmingly important.
For it means nothing less than
that throughout Australia and
New Zealand this vast army of
users has positive knowledge
that Goodyear Tyres outserve
the ordinary type.
A man may speak well of this
or that product from a generous
impulse, or from a desire to be
agreeable.
But before he buys that product
he must have firmer ground for
his opinion ; he takes care to
know what it is made of and
how put together ; he stakes his
money on a basis of fact.
His purchase is his last word in
approval.
On this ground alone, then,
Goodyear Tyres are entitled
to your serious and favorable
consideration.
Goodyears are outselling most
other brands of tyres, and the
margin of Goodyear leadership
is steadily widening.
The belief of Goodyear users is
amply substantiated and upheld by
the service of the Tyres themselves,
and because this service is conspicu-
ously superior, more and more
users are being won to Goodyear
every day.
When you come to buy Goodyear
Tyres, buy them of the Goodyear
Service Station Dealer near you.
He will advise Goodyear Heavy
Tourist Tubes, and suggest you
carry a Goodyear Tyre Saver Kit,
the former to aid your covers in
giving still longer service, the
latter to remedy any accidental
damage on the road.
Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes and "Tyre Saner" Accessories are easy to get from Goodyear Seroice Station Dealers everywhere.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: J3I CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, BRANCHES ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Liiase. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIKNT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel. City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
"ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alina Wharf.) V
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Oct. 24.
Leaves Sydney, Oct. 27.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping fot J-
S.A. and XV. A. ports) J
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Oct. 27
’Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Ivt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South IVales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
a: Interest lor
fixed periods : and
transacts all other uiual Banking business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
m
1“-'
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIt
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL RE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,"
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEIICIAI, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers,
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors:
£3,894,980
£2,800,000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, Iv.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.G., M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London. •
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
T rtrqo.r’Tj ftIFNCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
JBank°‘3ustmlta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
for pe a n u General
Banking 1 Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances niade against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Gorernor. June. 1916 DENISON' MILLER. Gorernor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
'v
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland,
I, on don Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London' County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STE AMSHIP CD
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. RUPARA, October 27,
S.S. MORI ALT A, November 3
S.S. PARINGA, November 10
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney Mel
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice’vem
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney. *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Earge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWBAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
-|-HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — i ,
I WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COO S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Coiniunation Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Miinvillumbalj,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence lliverf,
there connecting with one of the Company 8 up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY', or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s. ; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should tr •
the A.U.S.N. Line, as tiiis Company s steameis P --
all up-to date arrangements for convenience a
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant-
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Dck -
interchangeable with all Interstate Compai rr ra de;
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the‘'jj!,,” see
particulars on application. For dates of s
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting
should read the British A -
sian, Ud. weekly—an illustrated
mtuining mail and cable news no “
alia and news of Australians .
id at home. Australians are cord aN
ted to visit the British Austsau
eading Room at the Offices, Ho * » the
,rn. London, W.C., where they can see
,me papers, meet their friends, \ bont
dephone, and obtain information
targe.


Keep Kodak, pictures
of thing's personal to you
Keep a Kodak picture record of the
people, places and things that interest
you personally; a picture record of the
children, your relatives and friends; of
your home and favorite spots you visit;
of your travels, hobbies and so on.
Among the Autographic Kodaks from
30/= to £l5/2/= there is one that will
exactly suit your requirements.
The No. 3a Folding Autographic
Kodak is excellent for all general work;
takes the popular postcard pictures —
x inches. Price £5/10/=
Ask for your copy of the latest Kodak catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
- s '
m
l h
x'M
mm*
• '
m
:>
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
(Incorporating Baker 8 Rouse Prop. Ltd.)
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-253 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba Theatre), Valley; 37 Bundle St.,
Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.. Hobart; Ruthven St.,' Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St.,
Rockhampton; 346 Argent St.. Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner Eambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington,
N.Z.; 3 Eorne St., Auckland. N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
HUDSON
i SUPER/
SIX A
s'
/
/ ■.
n
J 2
o
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
HUDSON CLOSED CARS
The World's Finest .
The Hudson Motor Car Company is the largest builder of closed cars in
the world. Hudson Super-Six Limousines and Town Cars are the highest
examples of the coachbuilder’s art. In luxury of design, in color and finish
thev are distinctive. Hudson closed cars have plenty of speed.
j
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motor carries them
with ease. They are the choice of those who seek superlative performance
combined with beauty.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J. Brien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Aetdreals : HUDSONCAR—DETROIT.


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JI'NE ?!,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHEKN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
HOW TO STOP PAIN IN STOMACH.
THE VALUE OF MAGNESIA AND HOT
WATER.
Generations of people have employed hot
water as a soother of pain in the stomach,
but modern physicians and specialists have
discovered and used successfully an addi-
tion which renders the hot water trebly
efficacious, llot water is still recommended
in all cases of stomach pain, from whatever
cause arising:, but still better results are
obtained if a little bisurated magnesia is
added. Hot water attracts blood to the
painful part and the bisurated magnesia
neutralises the acid, which is usually tin*
underlying cause of the pain. That is why
such excellent results follow combination
of the two. Readers who are subject to
pain in the stomach, especially after eating,
should try this hot water and magnesia
recipe. It renders dieting quite unnecessaiy
for by slowly drinking half a glassful ot no
water containing half a teaspooiitul _
bisurated magnesia immediately after men n
the dangerous stomach acids are destroy? •
and food remains bland and sweet an
perfectly digested. The bisurated magnesia,
which is extensively used in hospitals. <>
readily be obtained from chemists eve
where; but to avoid confusion witn 1
acetates, citrates and oxides of magnesi,
equally unsuitable mixtures of bismut ‘ *
magnesia, it is important that
should be asked for very distinctly. *
the: CHANDLER SIX £535.
Do you know why, in four years’ time, the Chandler has passed and left behind, one by one, a long line of other well=known cars ?
There are perhaps several reasons, all of which would appear very clearly if you had the oppor-
tunity or took the time to analyse the history and business policies of the automobile industry. But
there is ONE BIG BASIC REASON which, to YOU AS A MOTORIST, is the ESSENTIAL REASON,
and that one reason is this —that ever since the first Chandler Car was designed and built and mar-
keted four years ago last July, THE CHANDLER has OFFERED THE FINEST OF DESIGN,
CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT AT THE LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICE.
THE CHANDLER TO-DAY OFFERS THIS EXCESS OF VALUE, THIS DEPENDABILITY OF
SERVICE, JUST AS DISTINCTLY AS AT ANY TIME IN THE FOUR YEARS PAST.
It took some little time, of course, for a great part of the motoring world to pin its confidence
to this newcomer. Men recognised—indeed, the whole trade recognised—that a new type of car
most make large appeal had come into the market. The trade knew that it was the PRO* wfRK
MEN WHO KNEW MOTOR BUILDING AND GENERAL MOTOR-CAR DESIGN, AND MHO *•
EXPERIENCED IN THE BEST MANUFACTURING PRACTICES'. „ nlotor .
And how distinctly the Chandler has won its place in THE VERY FRONT RANK °* tinfi
cars is reflected in the Chandler sales records of Ninetcen-Fourteen, Fifteen, Sixteen and Seunr ( >vKD
Month by month and season after season throughout these four years the Chandler has _
FORWARD AND FORWARD, until to-day ITS LEADERSHIP COULD HARDLY BE QUESTU
This leadership has been built on
THE RIGHT CAR AT THE RIGHT PRICE.
Back in 1914 men were very generally inclined to recognise that THE CHANDLER WAS THE
RIGHT CAR AT THE RIGHT PRICE and about two thousand of them had the courage to make
sure of their convictions.
Those two thousand won thousands more to their convictions, so that in the year following nearly
seven thousand men chose the Chandler for their Car.
And the Car WENT ON MAKING FRIENDS BY ITS PERFORMANCE in the hands of those
owners.
The whole country marvelled at this WONDERFUL MOTOR, AT ITS POWER, ITS FLEXI-
HII.ITY, ITS LIFE, AND GET-AWAY, AND ITS ENDURANCE. The whole Chandler, c -
came to be recognised as a great mechanism. . . moro
So last year, 1916, it was hardly surprising to those who really knew the Chandler tra
than thirteen thousand motorists chose this Car for their Car, more than twice as many
chosen it the year before. t | lP
And now comes 1917, a year of some stress for all trades, a vear above all years when
real worth in merchandise counts most. And what is the motoring public’s answer in its u
sion of high-grade Cars? At hat is its answer in discussion of Sixes most particularly.'
1 rom coast to coast, so far as our available records show,
THE. CHANDLER IS PREFERRED
ABOVE ALL OTHER MEDIUM-PRICED CARS, ABOVE ALL OTHER HIGH-GRADE CARS.
The sales records show AN INCREASE OP MORE THAN 55 PER CENT, in the first six
months of this year as compared with the first six months of last year.
Chandler leads because, starting with the right type of Car, the Chandler Company has stood
firmly by this type of Car. It has continued to develop this Car throughout these four
until to-day IT APPROXIMATES PERFECTION in construction and performance.
" e would like to show you what these items of design and equipment and many otheis, 1.1
of the highest-priced high-grade Cars, mean to Chandler performance.
COME, LET US SHOW YOXJ WHY AND HOW CHANDLER LEADS.
Marcus Clarß (&L Co. Ltd.
Sole Agents for
New South Wales.
Garage & Showrooms
162 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
TEL., CITYB«^
IN BANANA LAND
“L.S.”: Minister for Mines .Tones is one
of the most energetic of Premier Ryan’s
team. He has things in train for the estab-
lishment of State ironworks, and has already
made a start on the coal-mine at Dawson
Valley. At present he is interesting himself
in the possibilities of the asbestos which has
been discovered at Princhester, near Rock-
hampton. Also he and Minister for Lands
Hunter ha\ r e combined to tight prickly-pear
with the arsenic which is available in
Bananaland. In his spare time, he leads
the Government in the Council, and just
now is busy instructing his new supporters
how to walk the narrow Labor path.
“T.N.” on Nature’s submarines: —
A promising field of endeavor for the Bureau of
Science and Industry is provided by the various
marine wood-borers which infest our waters. One
is a crustacean about half an inch long, which is
responsible for most of the gouged and bored drift-
wood between low-tide and half-tide levels. The
largest and most destructive is the ship-worm, de-
scribed by Hedley, of the Australian Museum, as a
modified cockle drawn out to worm shape. Ihe
Australian species are about the largest in the world,
growing to nearly 6ft. long and an inch in diameter.
The boring is done with the creature’s foot, which
is studded with rough spikes of a coraline substance.
It is equally efficient in hard and soft woods. The
worm, after hatching from a tiny egg, swims about
in its baby form and settles down on a piece of
wood. Here it bores a hole about the size of a pin-
prick and proceeds to grow rapidly. Its healthy
appetite has cost Australia in general and Queens-
land in particular several millions in jetties and
other wooden structures exposed to sea-water, and
has probably been responsible for a considerable loss
of life in wooden vessels. So far, no practicable;
method of protecting timber against the creature has
been devised. A promising ereosoting process ren-
dered piles too brittle to drive, tar and poisonous
substances soon lose their efficacy, and - even copper-
ARID RAT CUES.
“Go away, you wretch! I don't believe you ever drew a sober breath .”
“Oh. yes. I hare at times, mum. Life ain't all peaches and cream for me."
ing is liable to fail if a pinhole is left, or a piece
knocked off. Charring .piles is an old remedy, but
the effect does not last. As Iledley, the best Aus-
tralian authority on these beasts, has pointed out,
local observations are required, because those made
in Europe on other species do not necessarily apply
here.
Charles Iledley, of the Australian Museum.
Sydney, has compiled an interesting paper
for the Commonwealth Institute of Science
and Industry on Trochtts niJoticus , the hand-
some shell of the Torres and Barrier Reef,
for which button-makers pay up to £3O a
ton. In 1915 Banana land produced 544 tons
worth £12,000, and last year 950 tons worth
£23,000. White hunters don’t, as a rule,
worry about the meat in the shell, merely
spreading the catch on a beach and inviting
the blowfly to a banquet, after which the
smellful remains are washed. The Japs,
however, boil the whole outfit, extract the
fish—securing about a ton from every 10
t ons —dry and smoke it and then sell it as a
dainty soup-base to John Chinaman at a boßt
£2O a ton. “Beachcomber” Banfield, of "My
Tropic Isle,” reckons it “very palatable.
Hedley sounds the warning that the Aus-
tralian crop is likely to soon deteriorate it
the present all-the-year-round hunting con-
tinues and no restrictions as to size are
imposed.
Four of Ryan’s nine Ministers are repre-
sented at the Front. Lennon has two sons
in the firing-line, and one has the
M.C. Coyne also has two sons iu khaki,
while Huxham and Jones each have one son
in the big job. The other members of the
Cabinet have no sons old enough. A brother
of Treasurer Theodore was wounded in the
recent scrapping.
Gone where there are no labor troubles,
William Rankin, managing director of
Queensland Collieries, Ltd. Born in Scot-
land SI years ago. he had been amongst coal
all his life, and had charge of an Ayrshire
mine at 20. He arrived in Bananaland in
1883 to take over the Queensland Co.’s col-
liery at Howard, and was a member of the
Commission which reported on the State’s
mining industry in 1900.
Following on the finding of the Commis-
sion appointed to inquire-into the allegations
of Vowles, M.L.A., with regard to the pur-
chase by* the Government of Wando Yale
station, Premier Ryan last week tabled a
motion censuring Vowles for his charges and
Implications. Instead of admitting that he
was wrong, Vowles tried to brazen it out.
Now there is talk to the effect that Premier
Ryan is studying a very recent X. S. Wales
precedent. Two can play at the dangerous
game of expulsion.
“The King and Me.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“George the Fifth, by the Grace of God of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and
of the British Dominions beyond the sea King,
Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India.
“To Our trusty and well beloved Randolph Bedford
of Brisbane in Our State of Queensland, in the
Commonwealth of Australia. Greeting.
“We, confiding in your loyalty, wisdom and integ-
rity, do by this writ summon you the said Randolph
Bedford to the Legislative Council of Our State of
Queensland in the Commonwealth of Australia as a
member thereof ... .then and there to deliver upon,
treat and consider of divers weighty matters, affairs
and business concerning Our said State and to give
advice and consent to the making of laws for the
peace, welfare and good government thereof.
Extract from Ley. Councillor’s Commission.
“Some of the appointments are adversely criticised.
An indignation meeting of the Patriots’ League is to
be held.”- — Disloyal newspapers.
I had no time for monarchy,
Or for hereditary rule;
That kings were jokes was told to me
When, as a child, I went to school;
But now I’ve found intelligence
Of order high, and merit rare—
I've found a king who has some sense,
For George the Fifth has sent me there.
I to the Mausoleum fare,
For George the Fifth has sent me there. v ?
I scorned the stupid House of Peers
That tinkers, with a corpse’s hand,
The law the common person fears,
And keeps off taxes from their land ;
But now 1 find some reason for
“Trusty and well-beloved” blokes —,
One may survive till ninety-four,
And be a “trusty” till he croaks;
To argue with them I may dare.
For George the Fifth has sent me there.
This George the Fifth has heard of me,
And, with a truly kingly brain,
Has sent a message o’er the sea
To me to save the State again;
“My wisdom and integrity”
(I’ve heard not much of them before)
Have sent their fame across the sea
And boomed my legislative lore:
And these I to the Council bear—
For George the Fifth has sent me there.
It takes a king to know a man,
And see that genius in him burns;
My folks at home could never scan
The fact George in a momextt learns;
The kingly eye, the royal mind,
Sees all the common herd can’t see;
I am content (but not resigned).
For George the Fifth has sent for me.
I forthwith climb the Council stair.
For George the Fifth has sent me there.
The “divers weighty matters” that
The King desires me to discuss.
Shall all be fixed and fastened flat.
In spite of any storm or fuss ;
My “good advice” and my “consent”
Shall ready be, or soon or late,
For welfare and good government
Of this the democratic State,
Expressed in diction rich and rare.
For George the Fifth has sent me there.
Who shall the kingly mandate flout
Or at the kingly summons fleer?
And who shall try to put me out ?
Let him walk wary, and in fear !
Only Pro-Germans can object;
Only disloyalists despair;
The kingly will we must respect—
’Tis George the Fifth has sent me there.
Let all disloyalists beware,
King George the Fifth has sent me there !
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, October 20. 1937
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
To-day the Premier and Mrs. R yan entei „
tamed a couple ot hundred returned si t-
and wounded soldiers and a batch of . u . k
nurses at a river trip on the Lucinda to d''
accompaniment of music, cigars, cDarett •
and other fragrances. Biljimima’ was' there 5
too, and the boys from the Front voted her
the sweetest fragrance of all.
The village clown was abroad this week
and dropped a wreath, inscribed “May mps
IM P.,” upon the doorstep of the [{vans'
residence. It is only a few weeks since Mrs
Ryan’s mother and brother died within a
couple of days of each other, and the politi-
cal jape became a private jab. If there are
any more wreaths awaiting delivery i> vai J
hopes they’ll go to his office.
Our vice-royalties recently departed for
Melbourne without taking a gentleman usher
or even a bugler with them. It wall be at
least a month, I’m told, before we shelter
their Exes, again.
Justice McCawley, of the Industrial Arbi-
tration Court, has been appointed to the
Supreme Court Bench. The brilliant young
Australian is still on the right side of 40--
36, to be exact.
Messrs. Sparks and Rose, who went to
Hawaii and America to delve into the mys-
teries of the canning industry, are home
again with some valuable hints on how to
establish canneries on soldier-settlement
areas. Which reminds me, somehow, that
Randolph Bedford's first bill is to be one for
the Abolition of Pigeonholes.
Further evidence for the prosecution iu
the case against the climate. Mrs. A. M.
Code, of Tingalpa, who arrived in the ship
Montmorency in 1862, and settled at Tin-
galpa. where the family has lived ever since,
dairying and farming, died the other day,
She was barely 94.
The Art Society will hold its annual show
next week. A number of southern artists
will be represented, including Harrison, of
Melbourne Argus.
The Amateur Operatic Society played ”A
Runaway Girl” at Her Majesty’s on Satur-
day night. Eunice Drury was the runaway,
and with George Webster as “Flipper”
made the hit of the evening. Mrs. E. 11. B.
Jordan and pretty Norma Aronson also
scored successes. E. R. B. Jordan batoned
the orchestra.
Killed in one of the recent pushes,
Maurice Duncan Benjamin, a Brisbane
boy, but of recent years in the Bank of
Queensland’s service in Sydney. There’s
a mother mourning him at Artarmon,
and a thousand customers of the bank ready
to give her their sympathy. He was 30
when the German shell reached him in his
artillery gun-pit.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


Motor Cans
The Big Four
Touring Car
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
Permanence
When an institution, almost from its in-
ception, takes the commanding position in its
field—
And when that institution maintains the
commanding position without interruption
over a series of years —
Then you may be assured of that institu-
tion’s integrity —both as to its product and
its dealings with the public.
From an annual output of 465 motor cars
nine years ago The Willys-Overland Com-
pany has grown steadily, and this year its
dealers have contracted for more than 200,000
motor cars.
Its net resources have grown in that time
from a little more than £lO,OOO to more than
£13,600,000.
This year the Willys-Overland factories
are building the most comprehensive range
of models ever by any. one motor
car concern.
If yours is a family of average size, you
will be particularly • interested in either the
Big Four-cylinder Overland touring car, fin-
ished in a rich brown, or the Light Four
touring car, finished in gray. These two
models exemplify the remarkable values char-
acteristic of the entire group.
When you buy any motor car in the Willys-
Overland group you are assured by our com-
manding position in the industry—by our
unequaled facilities and resources—of integ-
rity of values in your motor car throughout
the whole period of its performance in your
service.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
“Country Club ”
Willys-Knight Model
Four •Cylinder Touring Car
Complete Catalogues and Pr
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
KELLOW F-ALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC!A
s on Request from
HEATHORN & CO., Hobart «& Launceston,
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
ON, Christchurch, N.Z,
TheWillys-OverJand Company, Toledo, Ohio
Manufacturers of Willys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
ana Light Lorries


BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE . PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO an . OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
betaken in conjunction with, the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and. Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
London’s Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous Hair.
It is easy to remove superfluous hair tem-
porarily, but to remove it permanently is
quite another matter. Not many women
know that for this purpose such a simple
substance as powdered pheminol may be
used, applied directly to the hair. The recom-
mended treatment is designed not merely to
instantly remove the hair, but also to event;
ually kill the roots entirely. Almost any
chemist could supply an ounce of pheminol,
which quantity should be sufficient.
Renewing Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless td potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things in an effort to get
rid of f fie trouble. Unless you have some
ability aS an artist, you will mar your ap-
pearance istill more. The new and rational
way is td' take off the complexion itself, with
all its offensive marks. Just get some pure
mercolized wax at the chemist’s and use at
night the same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of .cold water. The mercolized wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky
particles, so gradually that no one guesses
you are treating your face—unless it be by
the result, which is truly wonderful. There
is nothing like it for bestowing a natural,
healthy and beautiful complexion.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which will
then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with the stymol-cliarged water and then dried
with a towel. The offending blackheads, of
their own accord, come right off on the
towel, the large oily pores immediately con-
tract and efface themselves naturally. There
is no squeezing, forcing, or any drastic
action. The skin is left uninjured, smooth,
soft and cool. A few such treatments should
be taken at intervals of three or four days
thereaftei in order to insure the permanence
of the pleasing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often down-right injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will, turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You. have only to get two ounces of
tammalite concentrate from your chemist and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum to prove
this. Apply this simple and harmless lotion
for a few nights to the hair with a small
sponge, : and the greyness will gradually dis-
appear. The lotion is neither , sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in pos-
session of the formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent Loudon beauty
specialist; “The slimy egg cannot dissolve
the scalp impurities, but only adds to the
trouble by completely choking the pores with
animal . matter.” The substance sticks, de-
composes. thereby causing ‘the hair to assume
a dead, “dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap
too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair,
will clear and prevent dandruff, and leavq
that fine fluffy effect so much sought after.
It also removes excess oil or greasiness. [1
Uhe “DAISY”
Combination Acetylene Table & Bracket Lamp.
As per illustra-
Complete
with .globe and
bracket.
Height Overall,
15 inches.
Breadth of Base,
5 inches.
Freight Paid,
17 G
Solid Brass.
75 Candle Power.
Burns fi Hours
at one filling.
LUX LIGHT CO.
OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
CAPILLARINE
€
Grows
Moustaches
• S.
Quickly!
This is a scientific and absolutely gehufne
hair-grower, which has developed a full-
growth of moustache in hundreds of unprom-
ising cases. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Dhosforino
r THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
Courage
What we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
rm
\
VSS3
'JTKY %/
fM\.
7
■7*t\
Y'HE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,'
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always, Hs
gets the best out of himself and out of life—and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation—the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle*
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:-
Mossrs - H - & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen). Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade. Manchester, England
SAFEGUARD You* health
OTAC-* Broyng’s
CWorodv^e
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
unit in tlxe Cough of BRONCHITIS all
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved
in the pains of GOUi,
NEURALGIA, TOOT
ACHE, RHEUMATIS •
IN
ACTS LIKE A CHARM
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, li&i * *
Made in England.
THE TRANSMUTATOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The gas-meter counts everything that comes; gas,
water, wind, all make the wheels go round, and the
harder the householder observes the Government re-
strictions the bigger his bill is apt to be.”
By night and day without a lull
You toil; and sweat, I vow,
In globules metaphorical
I see upon your brow.
While others strike and shift and shirk,
You settle back and work and work.
Of old, men sought in death the stone
Base metals to cajole
To gold ; but there you sit alone,
Transmuting simple coal
And dews and gases manifold —
The very west wind into gold!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
“Ould Riginjint”: Here’s a pair of Aus-
tralian boots to march in company with
those of “Bert R.” (B. 4/10/T7). I got
them about the middle of 1915. After wear-
ing them through the stony desert round
Heliopolis, they went with me to Gallipoli
and back to Egypt. After nearly 12 months’
constant work in the desert (the fine sand
cuts the stitching of any ordinary boot in
next to no time) they were still going
strong. They have since returned to Aus-
tralia and are now filed away among the
family records.
Out of a total membership of 3200 the
National Union of Journalists (Eng.) has
put 1200 into khaki and 60 have been killed.
A good many have been maimed, wounded
and incapacitated, and for these and their
dependants a fund has been organised.
“Cyril Surcingle”: P.M.G. Webster
should walk round it and consider whether
his plaything, the new Melbourne G.P.0., is
a public convenience or not. Telegrams
handed in at the old G.P.0., Elizabeth-
street, reach the operating-room in about
five minutes’ time. At the new G.P.O.
there is not even the convenience of a pneu-
matic tube, and telegrams have to be taken
across to the Spencer-street office (which
Webster tried To close some time ago) and
tubed from there. The messages take at
least half an hour from the time of lodgment
to reach the telegraph-room, and often they
take three-quarters of an hour. As showing
that this delay is recognised by the Depart-
ment, all telegrams lodged on or after 5.30
p.m. must be “kept” by urgent memo, that
is, as stations go at 6.15 p.m., unless advised
by Melbourne that there is business coming,
a memo is sent in advance to warn the
various offices not to go. “Keeps” in the
E.T.0.-itself do not appear until 6 p.m., as
it takes only two minutes for the memos to
reach the lines. That the new G.P.O. must
“keep” at 5.30 p.m. shows that the “keep”
memos themselves will not reach the operat-
ing-room until six o’clock. The business
man who wants his telegrams to get on the
wires promptly will pay his office-boy’s
tramfare uptown and lodge his messages at
the G.P.0., Elizabeth-street. Even the
slowest messenger-boy will get there in
under half an hour.
“II.”: London Punch like many other
papers was forced by war conditions to
double its price from threepence to sixpence,
but it is the only journal so far that has
been hauled into court for doing so by a
cantankerous subscriber. This crotchety
humorless old chap had paid a year’s sub-
scription in advance, and he wanted the full
value of his money instead of the propor-
tionate number of copies prescribed under
the new arrangement. He summarily re-
jected all friendly proposals to meet the
difficulty, and put Punch into the dock for
breach of agreement. Punch paid 16s. 6d.
into court as the sum sufficient to enable the
old boy to purchase, the paper for sixpence
for the rest of the period of his subscription.
The Court decided that it was an equitable
arrangement and gave the old comic its costs.
“J.S.P,”: Eve in search of an Eden
assisted by Melb. Argus:—
Gentlewoman, with tame snake, wants quiet homo,
suburban family, imall garden; no others; no ani-
mals.
Not even Adam.
“Copy Boy” : When taken to task for his
Show outbreak in favor of letting Govern-
ments alone in war-time, Gov. Stanley ex-
pressed the pious hope that his speeches do
not consist wholly of platitudes. Alas, they
do. As a speaker., his Ex. always seems to
be striving to say something daringly origi-
nal without committing an official"indiscre-
tion ; the result is that lie hands but plati-
tudes with an air of a man enunciating
startling paradoxes. Presiding at, say, a
meeting of a Ladies’ Benevolent Association,
he will produce something like the following;
I have no desire to say anything that will give
offence to any of those present [at this stage the
brand-new reporter leans forward and pricks up his
care], nor wish to ignore the limitations im-
posed upon me by reason of the position I occupy as
the representative of his Majesty the King, neverthe-
less I venture to say [those who don’t know any
better, wait anxiouslv for the bomb to explode] that,
having regard to all the circumstances, the balance-
sheet which has just been read [hereabouts the hon.
treasurer begins to look worried] is, if I may say
so, a very excellent one indeed.
This brand of oratory is probably more
characteristic of the Governor than the man.
After having reported Stanley ddzens of
times, I cannot rid myself of the feeling that
one of these days the man will break loose
and say something. After which he will, of
course, resign.
A BIT OF ROT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M3' soul is like a red balloon
Just tethered by a thread
That tries to reach the laughing moon
When Intellect’s in bed.
And Intellect’s the little coon
That owns the funny red balloon.
But Intellect has tied the thread
Quite firmly to the rail
That runs around his little bed ;
So harmlessly I sail
On little waves of cool night air
That play with Intellect’s gold hair.
Confound all beds and threads, I say!
If I were free, I’d soon
Be soaring many miles away
And bumping on the moon.
Unless I hit a star-point first
And pricked my tender skin and burst 1
N-S W -
ERNEST O’FERRALL.


4^
A
>
I
m
P*"*
\
*V
/!
l\
J
*>
rvrtr
AOME
OF
& GENERAL RUBBER GOODS
ii KM
■
S'
: ■■■:■ j-r*.
- ■
,;, .
fc '-- * - 1 ■<■* f
L %~' :■:• . -•/-£*3# -> *r:
| aw Js,
€&
w
m
-
V
.:>■■
r£.jo***
—m-
’■&* mm
'zC ' 4>
li g y|
m^:z-,r
r : ~--r'---i»y
.■
i
~.s^
BBS
S- . ■ ;
i
A ef H
■*% *s»;i'.. , .T* >
jlllMllUll
HSSg|»
fir
; ■- -w, fIW
*
BH
- Vr 7 % V'JL4 *
a«#@.
waMti*
a
-
rrr*
;
-
-
li
.
• • •;
Mil
tail
>TT
*
-
■
■ j 'mzz.:W *,..
-■» ' ' gggi ** .
: < V.;*?--*' t^r*
FOUNDERS OK THE ROBBER INDUSTRY IN A yf™ALASIA.
SggiSs w?ysg&3sng3&& si=
BeSrfNG AND ALL DOMESTIC AND MECHANICAL RUBBER GOODS,
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE —
BRISBANE—
PERTH
LAUNCESTON
HOBART
CHRIST CHURCH,N.2L
■ZfUB
>
1


Amusements.
Harry Rickard* Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
yi VOLI THEAT It E, SYDNEY
Every Evening at 8. MatinCes Wednesday and
Saturday, 2.30.
EAST NIGHTS OF MISS RUTH RUDD.
Continued Success of The Camille Trio, Ethel
Vaugn, Joseph Blascheck, Alyce Austin, Mabelle
Morgan, Lilyan Martin, Martha Boggs, The Sheldons,
Joe Reed.
"|“lVOLI THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
REAPPEARANCE OF THE
TIVOLI FOLLIES,
Led by the charming MISS THELMA RAYE.
Also J. C. MACK & CO., WE FOUR, KELLY and
DRAKE, and HARRY ROXBURY in his great
London Revue, “The Prince of Monte Carlo.”
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
RITE RI ON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF BABY MINE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 27.
J. C. Williamson’s New Farce Comedy Company,
headed by
ROBERT GREIG and BEATRICE HOLLOWAY, in
MR. MANHATTAN.
“A Musical Cocktail with a ‘kick’ in it.”
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
|_| E R M A .1 E S T Y ’ S, S Y I) N E Y.
■■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinee Wednesday at 2.
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
J. C. Williamson’s Beautiful Musical Comedy
Production.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Last Two Nights of THE WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUM
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 27, AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT’S
POPULAR MUSICAL COMEDY CO.,
including BARRY LUPINO, in
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
Smartest and Brightest of Musical Comedy Successes.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
WIRTHS’ HIPPODROME THEATRE,
Ila.vmarket, Sydney.
Last Two Nights of THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH.
NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27.
■William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation in
THE WORLD AGAINST HER.
Popular Prices: Saturday Nights, 3/-, 2/-, 1/6 & 1/-.
Week Nights, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Reserved Seats, 2/6, plus tax. Box Plan Nicholson’s.
Thiangee plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD. .
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager
Amusements,
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION L’ICTII It K THEAX It E S
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
H
EH MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELUOIUNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
CYRIL MAUDE
in
GENERAL JOHN REGAN.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til EA T ItE It OY A L>, JIHLIiOIiUNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 27.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MARIE TEMPEST,
in
GOOD GRACIOUS, ANNABELLE.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
STEELE RUDD’S latest success,
GRAN’DAD RUDD.
Popular Prices.
WIRTHS’ HIPPODROME, WIRTHS’ PARK,
MELBOURNE.
WIRTHS’ GREATEST SHOW ON
EARTH.
The Most Colossal Aggregation of Star Circus Acts
ever congregated into One Stupendous Show'.
Prices: Res. Chairs, 5/-; Chairs, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-.
Children Half-price, except Gallery.
Plan at Glen’s.
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
VIOLA DANA in
LADY BARNACLE.
and
BASIL GILL & VIOLET LEICESTER in
ON THE BANKS OF ALLAN WATER.
Prices as usual.
Amusemen t s.
|y| AJIiSTIC THEATRE, MELBOL'UNE-
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE MONK AND THE WOMAN,
with
PERCY MARMONT & MAUDE FANE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights ;it S.
A' UDI TO BIU M. MELBOIBNT
Direction, 4. & N. TAIT.
Commencing SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
SHORT FAREWELL SEASON of
SYDNEY JAMES
and his
ROYAL
STROLLERS.
ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMMES
will be submitted.
Plans at Allan’s, Popular Prices, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, !/-■
VICTORIA RACING C\M,
FLEMINQTON.
THE PROFITS OF THE YEAR ALL GO TO WAR
RELIEF FUNDS.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY . 3rd November
CUP DAY 6th November
OAKS DAY Bth November
STEEPLECHASE DAY 10th November
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £30,000.
The Magnificent Improvements add much to the
Comfort of Visitors.
FI. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, August 7, 1917.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Examination for Appointment as Pay-
master’s Clerk (Sea-going).
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION for
appointment as Paymaster’s Clerk
t ) iu the Royal Australian Navy
will be held in the Capital cities towards the
end of 1917.
The syllabus and standard of examination
will be practically the same as for examina-
tion as clerk in the Commonwealth Public
Service.
Candidates must attain the age of seven-
teen years in 1917.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette
No. 117, of 26th July, 1917. obtainable at
any Post Office, or at the Office of the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
If apy illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price fof it.
ELISA
Amusements.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE
M
AM;, sa “Si?
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK. ‘ ’ AIHK >
0 RITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.tn. to 11 p, m
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Business Notices.
Hear the
"AMBEROLA” 30
All Edison instruments are superb—there is
no question about that —and you are always
sure of the best that is possible for the price
you pay. The first essential therefore is to
get an EDISON Phonograph. They are made
to meet all requirements.
The “Amberola” 30, illustrated, is a really
charming instrument, though it costs but
£9 10s. Plays the famous unwearable Blue
Amberol Records.
Ask the nearest Edison dealer to demonstrate
it to you, or write direct for illustrated cata-
log, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ABBEY
SHOES
will please you best. They are
made not only for smart and
distinctive appearance, but for
comfort, long service and all-round
“rightness.’’
We illustrate a very smart, All-
Patent Oxford Shoe. Very highest
grade.
Price, 35f- and 40/-
Tan Willow Calf, 32/6 and 357-
In half- and full-sizes, and in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Raise lever, immerse nib,
lower lever ami the
pen is filled.
%
//////'
%
'%'s
m
%
V//,
'/a
m
*
m
*‘*rn/
<^y.
%
K
THIS is the simplest, safest,
quickest and best self-filling
device in fountain pens. And
it is to be had only in Water-
man’s Ideal, the World’s
Best Fountain Pen.
Get this pen and no
other if you want
a self-filler.
Other types :
“ Regular ”
and
“ Safety.”
The
Lever Pocket
Self-Filling
Msaternian’s
(Ideal)
Fo un tai n Pen
—f he pen you will
eventually buy .
>/ Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, U)c,JCfcri Comer, England
Australia : Harold 1). Dixon, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Oct. Gold-mounted TOBACCO
POUCHES, Antelope Skin.
Prices, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6,
17/6.
A TRIO OF
USEFUL GIFTS
FOR MEN
Costing Less at STEWART DAWSON’S.
Post Your name and address for Ol)R LATEST
CATALOGUE.
The KLIP-KLIP, best-quality Silver-plated
Pocket Manicure. Price 2/6.
I
Gent.'s 9ct. Gold Cuff
Links, inset any Battalion
Colors. Price 27/6.
STEWART DAWSON’S
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Vaseline
Trad* Mark fcagtatartd
Hair Tonic
A health-giving
dressing for the scalp.
Prevents dandruff
and falling of the hair.
Refuse substitutes.
For sale at all chem-
ists and general
stores.
Zhesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated) .
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
x>ndon Montreal Moscow


On Face. Scratched and Grew to
Eruptions. Formed Scales. Could
[Not Sleep. Cuticura Healed.
“Small pimples came on my face and
were itchy ana used to burn terribly. I
scratched them for they
were very irritating and
they grew into eruptions
which were red and in-
flamed, and formed scales.
I could not sleep for they
used to get so sore.
‘ ‘A friend told me to give
Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment a trial so I sent for
samples. I bought some more and in a
fortnight my face was healed." (Signed)
Tack Kennedy, Upper Queen Street,
Onehunga, N. Z., Sept. 22, 1916.
Improve your complexion by using
Cuticura for every-day toilet purposes.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
11. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W
Sold throughout the world.
ji!
3$
*
%
v.
*
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Llttte Collins St., Melbourne.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being;
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES'*
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Powder
and oz. shot.
ELEY 32
s. & vv.
Revolver
ELEY
25
Automatic
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L- LONDON
Never Use an Oily Polish
on An y
of My
Furniture-
I Want You to Use
f\ILY polishes gather and hold the dust,
v-J soiling clothing, linen and everything with
which they come in contact. Johnson’s Prepared
Wax imparts a perfectly hard, dry, glasslike polish.
It forms a thin protecting coat over the varnish,
adding years to its life. It never becomes sticky
or tacky in the hottest weather or from the heat
of the body. Consequently it does not show finger
prints and
It Cannot Gather Dust
Johnson’s Prepared Wax polishes and finishes with
one application. There is nothing like it for keep-
ing dining room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes have no effect whatever on it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently re-
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust-
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman Furniture also.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson's Prepared Wax.*
Keep a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos. Piano Woodwork
Floors Furniture Motor Car
Use This Coupon for Trial Tin
prepared
(leans and Polishes
OkRIB iFteKBOTaS
IPnmrn
fjHOLEUM
fuJORS _
\^OODWORK
. Automobiles
\ A LL If ATHER —
If
CZ3
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax —
sufficient for a good test.
Also send book on Home
Beautifyingfree and postpaid
Name
Add/ess
I usually buy fror.z.
Fill out this coupon
and post to
S.C. JOHNSONS SOM
379 Kent St, Sidney. N. S. W.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effecft in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma CSL All Chest
Affections.
16 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write tc
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
\4
%
BUG
[2
T
FIE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
"that WE MAY GET A LICKING. Me
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravish cr of Belgium t n'n without
lifting a bond?
The Inky Way.
“R.” : The question of payment by lineage
was brought up (for the first time in Tas-
mania) at Hobart recently. Mrs. R. V.
Kearney sued the Daily Post, a Labor jour-
nal, for £34 18s. 9d. for articles contributed
by her under contract, and claimed payment
at A.J.A. award rates, viz, lid per line.
Dwyer Gray, who holds the joint position of
editor and sub-editor of the Post, stated that
lineage rates as set out in the award were
intended to apply only r to country corres-
pondents. Chief Justice Nicholls gave a
verdict for half the amount claimed, stating
that evidence as to lineage payment was
vague. There was a strong flavor of ink
during the hearing of the case. Nicholls.
C.J., who was on the Bench, is the son of
the late Nicholls, editor of the Hobart Mer-
cury for many- years, and was also a fre-
quent contributor to the press before his
appointment to the judgeship. Crosby Gil-
more, plaintiff’s barrister, is also guilty ot
splashing ink at intervals. Billy Gill, who
instructed Gilmore, is the son of the late
owners of the old Tasmanian News ; and
Phil Griffiths, who did his best for the defend-
ant newspaper, was formerly a reporter,
and even now takes turns in the press gal-
lery for the Launceston Examiner when
Parliament is sitting. #
E. T. Davis, chief of staff of Hobart
Mercury, has done more for his little island
than most men; for his “Appleblossom
articles enabled Tasmanian orchardists to
graduate in theory long before the Govern-
ment provided them with an expert's help.
In a more literal way he has left his foot-
prints on the sands of time.” When the
Tasmanian Tourist people built the picnic
house at the
F er n Tree
Bow e r, Mt.
Well ington,
“Appleblossom”
was the first to
enter the com-
pleted struc-
ture. Unfortu-
nately the
cement floor
hadn’t set, so
the pressman —
who has an
iron foot sup-
port—left h i s
indelible mark.
E. P. DAVIES,
Tasmania's best-
known press-
man, chief of
Mercury
reporting staff.
“Aussie”: When up the line yesterday I
came across a chap painting names on the
little white crosses which mark the graves
of our dead cobbers. The name he was
doing was that of Charlie Walters, who used
to be a tone etcher on Sydney Sun and do
drawings and decorative work for other
Sydney papers. May he rest well! Bumped
another chap one windy wind trying to hang
on to a sheet of galvanised-iron and find a
pathway amongst the shell holes. The way-
farer was Bert Evans, who gave up his job
in charge of the etching-room and stall at
the Sun to take on foot-slogging. The
Sydney etchers are well represented in
France. I come across many of them doing
their bit.
* * * *
“See Gee”: The argument during a Syd-
ney police-court case last week as to short-
hand and shorthand writers brings to my
mind Merrick, who has had long press ex-
perience of taking notes, lor a time he was
On a country sheet, and part of his job was
receiving news over 150 miles of trunk line.
Frequent interruptions drew him away from
the ’phone, and many a time I have stopped
the language of the foreman printer by
transcribing Merrick’s Pitman. The out-
lines, even if made up to or beyond ISO a
minute, were so unmistakable that he never
troubled to check the proofs; and I was
never aware of much being wrong.
THE LITERARY IRON AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Edison is advising America to print its books .on
thin sheets of copper, steel or nickel, which can be
turned out for service so thin that quite 20,000 of
them will go to the inch. These metal books will
be lighter, cheaper and more durable than paper.
Here is the writer's chant e who craves
An audience of posterity.
As "tis in words sublime he raves,
And lives his phrases brave to sec
Go up the flue in smoke and flame.
That product fine of passion’s lyre
We print on steel in iron frame,
No insolent domestic dame
May use to light the kitchen fire.
So fame’s assured. The book which I
In splendid inspiration wrought,
If built of steel will never die.
I give birth to immortal thought
If what I’ve writ no man may tear
To bandage chops or butter pats.
If ’twill withstand the daily wear
Of chocking grand-dad’s rocking-chair,
And bombing predatory cats.
Oh, give me sheets of armor-plate
For my imperishable scroll.
On tinkling brass I fain would state
The promptings of my subtle soul.
The poet writes his precious rhyme,
And anxiously he turns to scan ir.
Then conies the cry from depths sublime:
“How' can it brook the tooth of time?”
And here's the final echo —“can it!”
But other novelists will print
Their stuff on non-corrosive steel.
On page endurable as flint
Those other bards will rant and squeal.
What satisfaction when we turn
From their thin rubbish, crude and new,
And hurl it in the grate to learn
The rotten volume will not burn,
And these are all immortal too!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Skidding:
the menace
'J’HE prevention
of “ skidding” is
perhaps the most
ing problem connected
with pneumatic tyres.
In “all rubber” tyres the most effective skid
preventive tread is that which offers the
greatest resistance to “sideways movement.”
The Moseley Grooved
Tyre is built with five
parallel circumferential
ribs, which are added
to the tread, not ** gouged
out” of it, and which
are designed to offer
the utmost resistance
to any sliding sideways
movement of the tyre.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer
If you find any difficulty in obtaining,
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
287-289, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “ Grear,” Sydney.
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
The “different” Food!
Benger’s Food differs from all others because it contains
u- L l ? a ? s partially digest the fresh new milk with
which it is prepared. This means much, as the inability to
digest milk is very common among children and adults.
Therefore always use
Food.
Important Announcement.-Benger b Food Ltd .regret to
announce a possible shortage in the supplies of Benger’s Food arising from
shipping difficulties and restrictions consequent upon the War.
If customers, therefore, experience a temporary difficulty in securing Benger’a
Food, will they please underst nd that this is the cause. Any communications
on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office.
236 A
BENGERS FOOD LTD.,
BRANCH OFFICE: n 7, Pitt
And at Nkw York (U.S.A.) 90 Beekman St.
MANCHESTER, England.
Street, SYDNEY.
Depots throughout Canada.
1
"MR
No. E 6244
"MIL LE R”
Lighting Fixtures
Manufactured by the famous house
of "Miller” are known and appreci-
ated the World over, they are to
be found in almost every country
throughout the Universe.
A large variety of styles
ELECTRIC,GASandOIL
for all requirements are at
your disposal.
Ascessories of every description. Look
over the "Miller” line it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER &c COMPANY
Meriden, Conn. U. S. A.
vr-rv'fcff'
4
C' c yA
■ '--■ .'■ r .’vT »r y
Sporting'
H.ifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
“A marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2i}lb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
14/0
.t
“Splendid for all small game:'
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire
takes 25 short. 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight 541 b
take-down. Freight pa‘id‘
Model,
magazine
hardened
95/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
“Suitable for small game and target shooting .”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine bolds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 4Jlb; slide action,
blade front and screw rear sights. Freight paid,'
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
52/0
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
, 22 calibre. 22in. barrel: weight, 4ilb.;
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
35 ■
Same Rifle, blit with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
40/-
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, bandies 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s}lb. ..
Freight paid,
72/6
_ “Simple and extra strong in construction.”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim tire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
38/6
Help Your Homeland ~Buy War-Loan Bonds.
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel, 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
22/6
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted only hold good
for two weeks from date.
One of the hardest-liitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
837. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s£ll>.
Freight paid,
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 3 9/3 1000; 4/. 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
£6/15/
A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short. 12 long ‘>r
H long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
front sights; weight. 4411). Freight paid,
7 51-
SUNOLTOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt
11d. post free.
87. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F. round 24in
hnrrpl onsp-lin rrlcmoH fromn r... , ,
Fited with open Front and Sporting Rear Sight 301"
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight . 42/6
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F. 25 or 32"calibres."2/0 extra.’
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model
calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber beel plate; weight. 2slb
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
31/-
x »»x/v, uLiit;r ciaies,
i.f rearm rL Spor J s List (Catalogue Bl), also “Sure Catch» Anglers’
( .( ague 1 ost Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. Th H
are money savers.
28 6
1C
• •
71USTR71LTM5 GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
71ND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
113 Kind St, also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane


Another of our Gallant Heroes Praises
REXONA
PRIVATE
S. R. SIMPSON.
(from a photo.)
7i
*
/
Private Stanley Roy Simpson, No. 736, of
the famous First Battalion, was in the origi-
nal landing at Gallipoli, and went right
through the six-months’ campaign, leaving
the Peninsula within a few days of the evacu-
ation. In the First Brigade—composed of
the Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Battalions —he
fought in the Lone Pine charge. He saw the
great ejght-hour armistice on the 25th May.
This battle-scarred Anzac says some valued
words about Rexona: —
I’d like to add my
testimony as to the
value of Rexona
Ointment. A sol-
dier pal of mine
cured himself of
painful hemorrhoids
solely by its aid, and
I have, by degrees,
come to believe in
it as the most cura-
tive ointment to he
had in the world. I
have found it par-
ticularly effective as
*, healing agent in
skin sores and
ivoun ds. Heaven
knows I’ve seen
enough of them to
last me a lifetime,
and T know what I
am talking about. I can recommend Rexona Ointment heartily toi ( )
hemorrhoids, because I have seen its work; and (2) for cuts and soies
that have become unhealthy through a worker’s carelessness.
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) S. R. SIMPSON.
The above is only one of the many letters we have received in praise of Rexona,
the Rapid Healer, from our boys at the Front. They all use Rexona, and find it
unequalled as a soothing and rapid healing Ointment for the terrible wounds and
skin sores which they so often suffer from.
Rexona is first at the Front and first at home.. The ever-ready friend of all.
Sold only in triangular pots at 1/6; or large pots, holding nearly four times tho
quantity, at 3/-
0
o
o
THE RAPID H EALER
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
COMMON SENSE AND
HEALTH
COMMON sense tells you that real health can-
not be forever dependent upon the artificial
stimulation of physics and cathartics.
Drugs relieve constipation temporarily, but never
cure it. Nujol, a sensible relief, is not digested or
absorbed into the system. It acts merely as an
internal lubricant.
Nujol is not a drug. Drugs give quick, tempor-
ary relief, but they aggravate the very condition they
are meant to cure. But Nujol is a genuine remedy
in that it relieves constipation in the most natural
way by lubricating the lining of the intestines,
softening the intestinal contents, and thus promot-
ing healthy and normal bowel activity.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(New Jersey)
U. S. A.
/
FOR CONSTIP/
ih'Hsisal'
rinlQi
r-; -r.ci
.-‘Jsixsr
L^aftUK
wafer
-czrivvz'.
Sondsrd Oil U»
l
TRADE I^gMAIU
FOR CONSTIPATION
Ask your chemist for booklet. Nujol
is sold only in 16 ounce bottles bear-
ing the Nujol trademark. Never in
bulk. Avoid substitutes.
12
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Tn?
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Living Picture.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
HE rode along one splendid noou,
When all the hills were lit with
Spring,
\nd through the bushland throbbed a croon
Of every living, hopeful thing.
Rptween his teeth a rose he bore
\ s white as milk, and passing there
He tossed it with a laugh. I wore
It as it fell among my hair.
No day a-drip with golden rain,
No heat with drench of wattle scent
Can touch the heart of me again
But with that young, sweet wonder blent.
wed upon a gusty day,
When baffled fury whipped the sea;
Vnd now I love the swift, wet play
Of wind and rain besetting me.
I took white roses in my hand,
A white rose on my forehead shone,
For we had come to understand
White roses bloomed for us alone.
When scarce a year had gone he sped
To fight the wars. With eyes grown grim
He kissed my lips, and whispering said :
“The world we must keep sweet for him!”
He wrote of war, the soldier’s life.
“Tis hard, my dearest, but be brave.
I did not make my love my wife
To be the mother of a slave!”
My babe was born a boy. He had
His father’s eyes, his smile, his hair,
And, oh, my soul was brimming glad—
It seemed his father’s self was there!
But now came one who bade me still
In holy Heaven put my trust.
They’d laid my love beneath the hill,
And sealed his eyes with timeless dust.
Against my breast the babe I drew,
With strength from him to stay my fears.
I fought my fight the long days through ;
He laughed and dabbled in my tears.
From my poor heart, at which it fed
With tiger teeth, I thrust despair,
And faced a world with shadow spread
And only echoes in the air.
The winter waned. One eve I went,
Led by a kindly hand to see
In moving scenes the churches rent,
The tumbled hill, the blasted lee.
Of soldiers resting by the road,
Who smoked and drowsed, a muddy rout,
One sprang alert, and forward strode,
With eager eyes to seek us out.
His fingers held a rose. He threw
The flower, and waved his cap. In me
A frenzy of assurance grew,
For, O dear God, ’twas he! ’twas he !
I called aloud. Aloft my child
I held, and nearer yet he came ;
And when he understood and smiled,
My baby lisped his father’s name.
They say I fell like something dead,
But when I woke to morning’s glow
My boy sat by me on the bed,
And in his hand a rose of snow !
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.
Two Hundred Tons o’ Pig.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
FORSAYTII, in his habit when pleased
or complaisant, put his two big
thumbs in the armholes of his waist-
coat and leaned back in his office chair look-
ing at the photograph on his desk the
photograph of the rather herring-gutted
steamer Marandana, 1200-tons register, and
told himself that he had done well. She was
old, but indestructible ; built long ago in the
days of iron ships, before steel ships came,
and then ships of thinner steel to cut down
weight of metal and cost of construction.
“A bit narrow in the beam for her length,
Forsayth thought as he gloated over the new
possession; “but quick of her heels and a
small coal eater. She’s a prize.”
So he had bought her and sent her to
dock; and the photograph showed her grow-
ing clean under the scrapers of her hull,
where at time of docking there had been the
weeds of her laying-up trailing in the water
like the hair of drowned women.
He heard the clerk enter, and ask for his
books for the safe; but he sat there long
after that’, figuring the earnings of the old
new ship or. the blotting-pad ; turning over
the telegrams offering freights. And her
boiler repairs alone would take a fortnight.
At last the dusk surprised him ; he pocketed
the photograph and the telegrams, closed his
desk and left the office, still bi ■ on schemes
to make the Marandana sweat profits from
wry square inch of her. _
His wife listened to him, smiling faintly,
as usual, at his enthusiasms, which were all
for the making of money, but as much tor
the making as for the money itself. She felt
that money had robbed him of her a little ,
and being well-fed and housed she could
know no warmth for projects to make more
food and housing. So she answered him as
ever, “Yes, my dear,” until he had finished
dinner and sat back in his chair full and
complaisant for a minute.
Then, also as usual, he transferred himself
from the chair at the head of the table to the
little room he called his “study,” because
there were maps on the walls, and he smoked
and schemed there. Rut before he reached
the big, low saddle-bag chair his schemes left
him for a nearer memory. He walked to the
study door and called to his wife in the
dining-room.
“Where’s Gwen, Alice? She wasn t at
dinner.”
“She had her dinner early, George.
She”
“Has she gone out?”
His -daughter answered him from the stair-
foot: “Not yet, Daddy, ‘but I’ll have to
hurry.”
He met her half-way, put his arm around
her shoulders, accepted her kiss, and led her
back to the study. He in the chair and she
on the arm-rest thereof, he filled his pipe;
and she, as knowing her duty from long
practice, took a match from the holder on the
table before her, lighted the pipe, and threw
the match away.
She showed against his burly strength as
a daisy to a fading sunflower, and was yet a
subtly-idealised copy of him. Fair, pink-
cheeked, bright-eyed, red-lipped, glowing,
dead gold of hair and very young, she was
unmarried, and twenty-four; and yet she
had in face and carriage a suggestion of the
happy matron. Certainly an observant
stranger would have said that for her the
spring of girlhood was gone. These, her
father and mother, seeing her every day, saw
her not truly. Absent from her the eyes of
their memory saw her but as a little child,
her frocks as short as her hair was long.
Forsayth puffed at his pipe for a minute,
then took it from his mouth to talk to her.
“And where to to-night, Gwen?”
“To the theatre, Dad —I don’t know where ;
it might be pictures.”
“I see—you don’t know until you meet
your friends. Who are they?”
“Er —er- —Mrs. Tolson and her husband,
and”
“Who else?”
“Oh, well, there’s a party.”
“I see. Want .any money, dear?”
“No, Dad —the Tolsons are calling for me,
and they’ll bring me home in their car, too.”
“There’s a note for chocolates, anyhow.
Trot along. You’ll be late.”
The girl kissed him, sighed relief as if she
had feared the lead of the conversation, and
left him as the horn of Tolson’s car sounded
in imitation of swine choking at the abat-
toirs. Forsayth leaned back and smoked,
smiling between the puffs—the smile of a
man who lived in an excellent world.
But, half an hour later, when his wife
joined him, his thoughts had taken a new
turn. From the Marandana he had gone
over his list of her officers: skipper, Captain
Jack Druce ; second, that young devil Shar-
land, a flyaway lad, but a good seaman, and
with a captain’s ticket to boot; chief engi-
neer, old Preston. Druce all right; all of
them all right, even young Sharland. Shar-
land got in to-n’ght in the Karaba, but was
already promised the berth in the better ship.
Sharland”
“Mother,” he said suddenly—“ Gwen hasn’t
seen that young devil Sharland since I told
her to drop him?”
His wife faltered in reply—the reply of
a peace-lover who hated war so much that she
would wade through murder to prevent it.
“I—l don’t think so, George.”
“Don’t you know? I told you to look after
her.”
“George! They’re both young ; and he’s
really fond of her.”
He became suddenly the Terror of the
Family.
“Both so young! Good God ! He’ll never
be anything but a twenty-pound-a-month
man if he’s lucky and keeps his ticket clean ;
and Gwen —good God, woman, she could
marry anybody, after I’ve got a few more
ships like this one !”
“Gwen says she can’t lose him. Oh. be
kind ! And she went out so happy to-night.”
Then he raved. “She went out to-night to
meet him ! I suspected something. He’s one
of Tolson’s party —answer! Answer me !
Isn’t he?”
“If vou must know —yes.”
“Well, by !”
“We were young once ourselves —be kind
to them.”
“Kind to them? I'll be kind to her. I’ll
save her from herself. Don’t bother! I’m
not going after her to make a scene. I’ll
wait up for her, and I’ll send that scoundrel
adrift to-morrow. He’ll wear his boots out
looking for a berth. I’ll cruel him.”
So the girl’s happiness ended in tears that
night. Her mother felt that her grief was
greater than the mere exercise of parental
authority called for. Her sobbing had an
undertone, not only of wounded affection,
but also of fear. ,
Next morning Forsayth sent for Sharland,
and thought again while he waited. To imme-
diately discharge him might lead to trouble ;
it would certainly make the girl the more in
love with him, in that spirit of perversity
often masquerading as the maternal instinct
in protection of the weak.
Forsayth argued with himself that he
would forbid Sharland to see his daughter
again, while hurrying the young man off to
sea, and then he decided to cut out the first
part of his decision and keep Sharland at sea
—for ever and ever, if it could be done.
Sharland came —a clean, trim figure of a
young man of twenty-seven or so, with the
little puckers around his eyes that told of
wind and sun, and the slightly rolling gait
of a very young sailor. He asked if he might
lay off for three weeks while the Marandana
was in dock, and was told that the Karaba
would leave within two days with himself as
master. Then Sharland cursed and thanked
Forsayth with the one glance, and withdrew
to take his good news and the bad news to
the girl; to hear her despairing story of the
night before, and to comfort her therefor in
the only manner known to either art or
nature. Two days later he went to sea with
the Karaba, bound to open roads and mad
little ports; and his girl went about the
house, pallid, listless, and as if something
more oppressed her than the course of true
love running unsmoothly.
Her observant mother pleaded for her with
the father. He was more than obdurate —-he
was irritated.
“Good Lord!” he said, “you women were
born unreasonable. Here am I up to my
neck in work, and you, too, worry me. I’ve
sent that fellow to sea, and I’ll keep him
there all I can.”
“She’s fretting, George.”
“She’ll have to get over it. Love and mar-
riage ! There’ll be no time for that in the
world soon. D’ye know there’s going to be
war?”
“War? Who with?”
“Everybody—the whole world will be in it.
It will Jbe war for years. Freights! A man
who owns an old windjammer will be able to
sell it for the price of a new Cunarder before
the shindy’s over. I’m buying all I can beg,
borrow or steal first payments for; and then
you w'orry me about this !”
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY DISEASE:
Why is it so Serious? Poisonous Waste is
Left in the Blood when the Kidneys are 111.
/,very Picture
Te/is A
I
m v
I
i
mmm
saws?
WM
mm
mm
. -
■
H
■
■I
■
m
mm
mm
mm
m
mm
■kiXcXK
iiw
5$
s
%«ssfcj
‘m
■
mm
/
a
Kidney disease is serious because it is so little understood. Many men
and women do not know what the kidneys are, where they are, or what they
do. Consequently, when any sign of kidney disease appears (such as
backache, urinary troubles, puffy swellings, irregular heart, etc.) it is often
mistaken for some other trouble, and the kidney complaint grows, unnoticed,
into Bright's disease, diabetes, rheumatism or dropsy.
The least sign of kidney disorder, therefore, however trilling it may
seem to you, is a serious sign, for it shows that the kidneys are not keeping
your blood pure. Doan's Backache Kidney Pills arc for the kidneys and
bladder only. They drive out clogging impurities, ease the tired membranes,
and build up the kidneys’ strength. Men and women of all ages can place
faith in this great kidney medicine. Safeguard your blood-filtering organs,
and begin with the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills when there is
any such serious sign as urinary trouble, backache, dropsical swellings,
dizzy spells, rheumatic pain, sciatica, nervousness, sleeplessness, feebleness
or languor.
Cured to Stay Cured.
A SYDNEY MAN. I
Mr. .7. 11. Price, 0 Smith’s Lane, off
Little’s Avenue. Balmain, Sydney, says:
“In consideration of the good Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills have done me. I
am pleased to pass the word on to other
sufferers and I hope many will profit by my
experience. I used this remedy for a severe
attack of backache and other symptoms
of kidney trouble and they cured me com-
pletely. I suffered terribly and could get
no rest from the constant pain day or
night. It was agony for me to even turn
in bed. Previous to taking Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills I tried different kidney
medicines, but they did me no good at all.
However, I now feel splendid and I attri-
bute my good health solely to Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I always keep
a bottle in the house and take some now
and then, just as a tonic for the Kidneys
and as a preventive against any return.”
| A SYDNEY WOMAnT)
Mrs. E. Mayhew, 29 Wyndham Street,
Alexandria, Sydney, says: “I suffered
from backache and rheumatic pains all
over my body, and was sometimes so bad
that I was almost crippled. I could not
stoop without enduring torture; in fact,
every movement meant increased suffer-
ing, and I often used to feel quite knocked
out. To make matters worse, my rest at
night was disturbed, and I was also sub-
ject to dizzy attacks. One day a friend
heard Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills very
well spoken of. so she advised me to try
them. I bought a hottle without delay
and after taking them for a few days my
health began to improve, so I persevered,
and by the time I had used three bottles
I was cured. The backache and rheu-
matic pains have gone completely and I
feel splendid in every way.”
T)oan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all-Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. f)d. per bottle, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
ECZEMA DOAN S, s n OIP?TWnENT.
Mr. H. Watson, sen., 206 Australia Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:
couple of years ago I had Eczema break out badly on my chest. It was shoruv
after I returned from a trip to India, where I had gone with horses. I had fever verj
badly m India, and the Eczema seemed to be the result of this sickness. «y*
very severe, and spread rapidly until I was in such a state that the pain and irntanon
nearly drove me mad. When I went to bed at night my sufferings were worse, * lll
was nearly morning before I could get to sleep. A man I know advised me to gei
Doan’s Ointment, saying that he heard 0 f excellent results from the use ot tms
preparation. I thought it a good idea, and obtained a pot. The first application w
cooling, and the second soothed the itch, and after that I got on splendidly. Ever
J a PPl ie d the Ointment there was a marked improvement until I was quite cm ■
Within a month from the first time I applied the Ointment not one trace ot
ailment remained. Doan s Ointment is splendid preparation for Eczema,
irritation, to take inflammation from the skin, and to heal.” „
Ten years later Mr. Watson confirm the above: “It is now ten years since Doan *
Ointment cured me of Eczema, and I am pleased to say that the cure has stood
test of time. I am still quite free of this dreadful complaint.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot- ° r
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"She’s ill, George. She's our girl.”
"But what in heaven’s name do you want
me to do?”
"Let her have a change. Send her away.”
"Well, that’s all right—all the less chance
of meeting that fellow, too. Where will she
go?”
"To Launceston. Mrs. Tolson is going
over.”
"All right. The Ivaraba will never see
Launceston. Nor the Marandana either.
Boor old Gwen! I’ll fix it.”
So they shipped her with her friends to
l.aunceston, and she wanted to go and to
stay, both ; and at the actual moment of part-
ing wanted most to stay. When the ship had
swung in the Basin and steamed slowly down
river, Forsayth put his wife into a cab and
went back to his office in a great hurry to
find ships to take up the work certain
to be abandoned by the big coasters which
inevitably become commandeered as trans-
ports. By reason of bigger ships being taken
into Government service, he found freight in
ports which he had before deemed valueless.
The one disadvantage of the war was that he
lost men whom he had believed to belong to
the Forsayth house-flag for life. Captain Jack
Itruce left him for State service; so did
Chief-Engineer Watson. Boiler repairs on the
Marandana went more slowly too; but he
comforted himself that freights were rising.
And Gwen had written from Launceston
quite affectionately and cheerfully, and there-
fore she must be forgetting Sharland. He
argued so, although that which seemed to him
resignation was really hope.
In the loss of the two best men in the ser-
vice he had recast his intentions for Shar-
land. Good officers were scarce, and would
assuredly be more so. The girl was safe in
Launceston; and Sharland, like any good
sailorman, would be married to his ship. The
day before Sharland returned from his
fourth voyage as master of the Ivaraba —five
weeks after Gwen had sailed for Launceston
-—Forsayth determined on making him master
uf the Marandana, now ready for sea.
Then the report of the survey of the ship
told him something new —something that
made the purchase of the Marandana even
more like an epic of success. The ship had
been found to have two hundred tons of pig-
iron in her bilge.
"Two hundred ton o’ pig !” said Forsayth
jubilantly to his best man. She’s tramped the
sea with two hundred ton o’ pig in her bilge
-—making round trips with a lot of iron that
never earned a copper in freight! Out it
comes, and in goes hard cargo !”
"It was meant to stiffen her—is it safe?”
"Safe when I load ’em full? Of course!
And two hundred ton of iron is going to be
worth money. Before this war is a year old
you’ll see pig worth eighty bob a ton. Let
the mate bring her up-river; get it out of her
and into store, and give her the railway iron
we’ve got for Tassy instead.”
It was done. The Marandana came up
river, berthed, discharged the pig and loaded
the railway iron, put a solid cargo into the
holds, and had almost completed her loading
when Sharland brought the Ivaraba up river,
a day and a half late.
He took the Marandana to sea with an
alacrity that made his owner wonder, seeing
that the young man had had less than a day
in port. But Forsayth could not know that
the master of his new ship went to sea with
the glad knowledge of a telegram already
despatched to Launceston —a telegram which
read : “Sailing for Devonport to-day. Hope
meet you to-morrow. Love. Sharland.”
The addressee was “Mrs. Sharland.” For-
sayth’s daughter had taken Mrs. Tolson into
the joke.
Forsayth saw the Marandana swing,
watched her fine lines and narrowness go
down river, and hurried back to freights and
charters.
# * * *
Sharland was glad with his new command.
Stiffly loaded and with fine weather she pro-
duced all her turn of speed across the
Straits. lie tied up at Devonport wharf in
a dawn of beauty ; got away from the ship
without the loss of a minute, hurried to his
wife and forgot the harshness of the sea.
Four hours saw the Devonport cargo out
of the ship; and Sharland brought his wife
aboard, and went to sea. They made their
calls at Ulverstone and Burnie, and tied up
at Stanley next day to discharge the solid
part of the cargo—the, railway rails and
machinery. When Sharland and his wife
returned to the ship she was empty, and
ready for the return cargo to Melbourne.
“She’s got a list, Mr. Banks,” said Shar-
land to the mate.
“She does look a bit cock-eyed, leaning up
against the breakwater,” replied Mr. Banks.
“But that’ll come out of her when she’s
stiffened with a bit o’ freight. She’ll stand
up all right then.”
Sharland looked at the return cargo-
much measurement and little dead-weight:
potatoes, cheese, hay and logs of stringy
bark and blackwood. a little copper ore. The
mate followed his glance.
“There's forty ton o’ that copper ore,” he
said. “I’ll give her that first, of course.”
Sharland agreed and left him re-assured ;
but when Forsayth’s daughter walked into his
arms as he entered his cabin a little of the
uneasiness returned.
“Girlie,” he said. “I wish you’d stay here
the night and go on by motor to the rail-
head to-morrow. You’d be back in Launces-
ton to-morrow night.”
“No, dear. I won’t leave you. Dad will
forgive me when I tell him.”
“Not yet. Gwen. Wait a little.”
“I can’t, dear —I can’t wait. I must be
with my mother. A girl must be with her
mother when her baby is born. . . .and it’s so
near now....and I want you!”
He could not force her from him after
that. He heard the rattle of the winches,
and his heart was heavier than the freight'
There came to help him habit, the hope
of youth, the fatalism of the sailor, and the
sailor’s contempt of the sea. He went to
the chart table, his wife following and lean-
ing lovingly upon his shoulders as he bent
over it. He kissed her and forgot the
danger, strangely elated at her presence in
face of a glass that seemed inclined to fall.
On deck again he saw that the Marandana
leaned more to the wharf than before. He
called the mate, and Banks coolly agreed to
the complaint.
“Looks like a city loafer trying to lean
against a post, don’t she, Captain? Never
mind. I’ll get better stowage on her. Hey!
Below there! Stow her even.”
They did ; and whether for that reason, or
because the wind blew in strong puffs from
the westward, she straightened up again.
The Marandana went to sea just before
dark —a wicked darkness that came on
the heels of black clouds gridding a
sunset like a smelter in blast, or as
if flames poured through the bars of the grid.
To starboard the light of Kooky Cape stained
the darkness for a minute, and then was
lost. Sharland left the bridge for a minute,
kissed his wife to comfort her, saw that the
glass was falling, and got no comfort for
himself as he returned to duty. Half an
hour later absence of comfort became active
fear —for her.
The Marandana slithered on through a sea
raised by a half-gale, rapidly shrieking itself
into the madness of tempest. The blackness
of the night seemed to deepen the troughs
and heighten the waves. Her pacing screw
kicked her from wave to wave as if she were
a cork ; she carried half her capacity in light
goods of great bulk, and seemed not to feel
the forty tons of copper-ore stiffening at all.
Besides the body of a ship there is the
soul of her. Build two ships to the same
plans, to the quarter of an inch off measure-
ment and the last pound of metal, and
one ship shall be stable and the other
cranky. Just like men, all different —good,
bad, half-good, half-bad; all the same, but
differing.
Despite all the coddling of cargo-stowage
and making it fast when her hull was struck
by the western gale she heeled over to port
in a long arc that left them all breathlessly
believing she could not recover. Sharland
turned her head to the east, putting her
before it, and she seemed a little easier,
although even then she did not recover the
list —floating, as Banks said, like a headed
barrel.
When the wind lulled a little Sharland
put her on her course again, and she went over
heavily to port. He turned her head easterly,
and in the turning her list changed to star-
board. Now the seas lifted the tall ship out
of the water far below her run, and when
she fell again she seemed to have lost her
lightness, hitting the seas heavily as a trac-
tion-engine running wild over boulders. Shar-
land put her back a point or two nearer
her course; and wind and wave made a see-
saw of her —port list to starboard list, star-
board list to port; never with a plumb keel.
They did not feel any great anxiety; for,
although dangerously listed, she seemed to
do not so badly before the wind, and Shar-
land, giving up the idea of making his direct
voyage, turned her definitely eastward. Then
the seas found new heights and depths. The
Marandana plunged her nose into it and
shipped it green ; the vibration of the racing
propeller set their teeth on edge. Suddenly,
with a jarring whir, the engines raced
madly as the propeller shaft broke at the
boss, and the revolving metal plunged to the
ocean floor.
With the way off her the Marandana’s
head slipped to the northward. The gale
shrieked triumphantly as she settled into the
sea, re-found her list to starboard, and began
to roll.
The engines stopped and the ship quivered
only with the assault of the seas. Sharland,
white with fear, ordered out a sea-anchor,
and went down to the cabin, and the white-
faced girl ran to his spume-drenched arms.
The ship, finding her crankiness again with
the loss of the two hundred tons of pig-iron
which had kept her stable, began to roll tre-
mendously, with the starboard list increasing,
and the recoveries slower and lessened as the
cargo moved to starboard ever so little. The
thrust of the wind on her top hamper pressed
her more heavily to starboard; then she
stood up a little, as if resisting. The wind
pressed again, and the arc of her rolling
grew longer. A cry came from the deck as
the ascending firemen saw the water rise
to them in all its hugeness. Sharland and
his wife, holding fast against the portside
wall of the cabin, and embracing, ealmlv but
hopelessly, kissed to forget the hell that was
without. Then the wind came with a shriek,
thrusting at the port side as the seas fell
away to starboard. The air whistled out of
the ship as the invading water compressed it.
A puff, as of a man’s pipe, leaped from her
funnel against the blackness of the night;
and the Marandana sank with all her com-
pany.
* * * *
Mrs. Forsayth fought her fears for a week,
and then gave her husband Mrs. Tolson’s
telegram in answer to her own:—
Gwen left for Devonport, meet husband, Captain
Sharland, Marandana; intended return with him to
Melbourne.
Forsayth read it, and, trembling like a very
old man, gave her another telegram :—-
Boat with painted name Marandana, now six davs
overdue Melbourne, found stove in on coast near
Wynvard.
Forsayth’s best man sold two hundred tons
of pig at fifty-five shillings a ton. Men in the
trade said it was a foolish deal. He should
have held it for a year till the market hard-
ened to eighty-two shillings and sixpence.
But Forsayth couldn’t bear to have it about
the place.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Enfranchisement.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
ONE with the grovelling beast-folk, erst
I learned
Of foetid lust, the slow, devouring
shame
That follows after. My glad youth’s fair
fame
I flung to ravenous harlots. So I spurned
My manhood. With deliriums vile I burned,
But ever cried that each defiling flame
Was zest of life and sweetness of the game
In whose pursuit creation leapt and yearned.
Then—then !—clear through the murk of mv
alarms
Thy presence shone, dear star; and straight
I bowed.
Forgetting self, nor seeing aught but thee ;
Til] glorious in his own high clemency,
With deep, sweet eyes insatiable and’ proud,
Love sprang to me and nestled in mine arms.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


- J i. •
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
S3IVM S N IS3M a»03N03
‘'an visvivaisnv jo ‘O3 imwhb isaohoniishm am
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
\
%
THREE ~RTBBEn TYRES
-
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a w Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request .
C. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd ,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON JIROS., 2i2, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.8.-70
"
.
m
1
foT
UMC
e
?*•«*<• T«»*
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. w Time tells
all things" says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years.' Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10gd (36 pills), 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
J I
10/-
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
Pi, S
0/-
each
free
Fig 6
Full Particulars
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company ,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .
JL
I
PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP)
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
ROBERTSON,
Loft us Street,
SYDNEY.
fWON
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents: HAMMOND (Q. CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents: QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 20 MarKet Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.


llfriAN GROVrrEjfl
' -*. V
a
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MA-NGKOVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, i\r. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital' High-Speed Steel
■ “ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines,
READY FOR USE. ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
CAPITAL
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES
jjr'x3" ~gx3" §x3 f^x4 u 4x4''
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle $ Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
D&nnemora Steel Works, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LIL
379 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Build Better Homes at
Cheaper Cost with
HARDIER
“F.IBROMTE”~
The AUSTRALIAN-MADE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
You can actually build cheaper with
“Fibrolite” than Weatherboards, and
“Fibrolite” is Fire-proof, Whiteant-
proof, and more lasting. It costs
one-third less to paint, and other
expenses are also less.
Write for Sample and descriptive
Booklet “D.”
James Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
’Phone 6239 (3 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also at Brisbane & Adelaide.
MADE FROM
THE BEST SELECTED
BARLEY
AND
ITALIAN
JUNIPER
BERRY
LOOK FOR THE NAME
a.
smt
Machinery
Department
MILLER'S POINT,SYDNEY
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
High-grade & Popular Agencies, comprising the following lines—
TANCYE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam
Engines.
TANCYE Boilers, Suction Cas Plants, Pumps, Jacks, etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction
Engines.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines & Cream Separators.
NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements.
JOHN BUNCLE & SONS Chaffcutters & Corn Crushers.
E.R.B. Separator Engines. —CANE Milking Machines.
m
m
Clayton Portable Steam Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling’ Cnaffcutter
THE
WMWMWM
WKm
wmmm
m
mm
iwlmmm
in
gjr#
111
SH EEP SHEARING MACH IN ES
give faultless service
The reason of the Wolseley’s universal popularity is due
to its proving by practical and competitive tests to be
superior in every respect.
It is smooth-running, efficient, costs wonderfully Vfittle
for upkeep, and is an absolutely profitable investment.
Make enquiries from
Dalgety & Company, Ltd., Australasian Agents— All Branches.
A XcJi/IXv
h
..
\
:::f
8111
*ll
IN THESE DAYS of
KEEN COMPETITION—
Quicß Changes o/ Feeds and Threads mean so much to the Shop
or Factory interested in Speed and the Reduction of Costs.
Can you afford to be without Modern
High-speed Machine-Shop Equipment?
Call and inspect, or write for Catalogue of our HIGH-SPEED
LATHES. They Have new and ‘distinctive features designed
to show definite savings on your worK.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
“RAPID”
Electro-Magnetic Ore Separator.
For Wolfram-Tin, Zinc Blendes, Monazite Sands, etc.
Invented and built in Britain. Simple in operation. All tuning up may be done
whilst machine is working No Flimsy Cross Belts. An absolute Minimum of Dust.
Every part easily accessible. Separating Magnets can be set finer than any other
machine on the market.
GUARANTEED TO GIVE EQUAL EFFICIENCY, AS A MINIMUM, TO ANY
t GERMAN-DESIGNED MAGNETIC SEPARATOR.
AGENTS FOR. AUSTRALASIA:
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
CITY OFFICE-
EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY,
Installation at Story’s Creek Tin Co. f Avoca, Tasmania.
