

LISTEN!
Our Brave Australian Boys are Calling for YOUR HELP!
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
Will you fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written.
ENLIST!
R. G. WATKINS CEb CO., Iron and Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney.
sSs
S 3&
£. 5. v
Qdvance.
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
BILLS DISCOUNTED
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&I.C? LTP
HEAD OFFICE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to "Dally Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagb Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Cemral Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
FIFTY PAGE BOOK-POST FREE
*I«J1
SLEEP IN o»
OUTDOORS
IN COMPORT
TRY OUR
PATENT RED
FOR HOTELS
PLATS* AND
BUNOALOWS
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO..
380 GEORGE ST (near 0.R.0.). SYDNEY.
$
mmf,
i
*-5*
■
Hultcm’f*
Pitxeci {> |>]c ”
Warns* Bacon
‘Jaxje," MLe,
3DN3J 333X5-33V AQOOW NOSMVH
built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages over wooden
post fences, as it saves 80 per cent, in erection
labor and weighs only 26 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For lull particulars write to The Rawson Moody Mfg. Co., 343 Kent St.,
Sydney, or send for an Illustrated Catalogue B.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablet*
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E N’S
sHnup
«ir INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when takets daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
f
*
9
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
SCRUTTON’S for GUNMETAL STEAM FITTINGS
Walworth Brass
ClO'je Valvss.
STEAM FITTINGS.
PACKINGS, OILS,
WASTE, LUBRICATORS.
Angled Valve.
LL ENGINE-ROOM WANTS.
lOVERNORS, STEAM TRAPS,
STEAM PUMPS, PIPINa
UINM
Itnkenheimer
Re-grlntling Horizontal.
REDUCING VALVES,
PRESSURE GAUGES,
STEAM INDICATORS.
L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD., 161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Walwortn Brass
Globe Valves,
Angled
BULLOCH LADES
V/HISMES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL s.v o.
EXTRA
SPECIAL
GILBERT LODGE 8 CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney. 115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH 6t CO. LTD.
NORTH BRITISH LOCOfIOTIVE CO. LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAVLEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
CHANCE BROS. LTD.
WEBSTER & BENNETT
nPALom
HXOOX
Gives a Sense of Clean
Fr»«hnPH' ta fh»» jWWI3£.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
FRE7QNE
LAVENDER
u, » Tep '
The Bulletin
Voi 38.—1951.]
[Thursday, July 5, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“BRITISH!”
THAT’S
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
USED ALL OVER THE WORLD BY CONNOISSEURS .
TUCKER (Si CO., SYDNEY.
Tho Oldest Wine and Spirit Merchants in Australia.
HUDSONS
Eumanthol
Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
Contains no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive
evidence of the value of “ Kumenthol Jujubes as
an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says: ‘‘Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
m
A—The Larynx,
or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea,
or windpipe. C
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
I)-r~The lobe of
one of the lungs.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, or POST FREE ON RECEIPT OF 1/6 STAMPS
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney.
Agencies in alt the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. jg
The Red Page
The Six immortals
Through the deliberate restriction of the
franchise to those specially qualified to vote,
the ballot-papers for the six foundation
members of the Republican Academy of
Australasian Letters were fit but few, and
the returning-officer had to be satisfied with
but 81 voting lists. In these ballot-papers,
however, an astonishing range of nomina-
tions is disclosed; no less than 50 names
were submitted fpr admission —an utterly
unforeseen profusion of Australasian men
of letters.
A restriction against members of The
Bulletin staff was necessary in order to
avoid any suspicion against the fairness of
the competition : but unfortunately, from a
sense of modesty, or pain, the officially de-
barred members of the staff were not men-
tioned. Thus Bertram Stevens, James
Edmond, J. F. Archibald and C. A. Jeffries,
who are. not now on the staff, may have
lost some votes owing to the voters’ natural
doubt about their eligibility.
The voting generally was so small that
practically only two immortals can be
regarded as definitely chosen: the mere dif-
ference of one vote between the other candi-
dates in so small a poll is hardly sufficient
to gain Australasia’s confidence in the
authority of the R.A.A. The question is
open to discussion.
If voters had been allowed only one choice;
instead of six, the new immortals would
have been: Lawson, O’Dowd, Bedford,
Brennan, Archibald and Dennis. Dyson
and Ethel Turner score by aggregate votes,
though neither was regarded by any of Iris
or her barrackers as worthy of first place
in their lists.
The competition has been practically an
Australian one. Yet the guinea award is
divided between O. N. Gillespie (Box 303,
P. 0.. Wellington, M.L.) and Bartlett Adam-
son (Box 1526 on the same premises).
Gillespie’s list is as follows: Lawson,
Brennan, Dennis, Ethel Turner, O’Dowd,
Bedford; and Adamson’s: Lawson, Pater-
son. Dennis, . Bedford, Ethel Turner.
O’Dowd. These get nearest the list as settled
by the general vote —Lawson, Bedford, Den-
nis, Dyson. O’Dowd and Ethel Turner in
that order.
It is curious to note that in the six tech-
nically elected, no literary critic or pro-
fessor of literature finds place. The voters
confined themselves solely to practitioners of
the art—which is as it should be. And
Sydney and Melbourne divide between them
equally the elected members.
Australian
Belated, but welcome, is Captain Gerald
S. Doorly’s brilliantly-written story of The
Voyages of the .Morning (Smith, Elder,
E.). The Morning was the relief ship that
ved the Antarctic expedition of 1902-4,
led by the late Captain Scott. This expedi-
tion must not be confused with the later
one in which Scott lost his life. Hitherto
the ground covered in Doorly’s work has not
received the attention that, judging from
this exciting narrative, it deserved. Though
the sport of capturing North and South
Poles has lost its zest for the adventurous
nowadays, when the Big Adventure so
loudly calls them, it is as well to remember
that a decade ago there was little else left,
that offered such exeiting risks as Antarctic
exploration. This page was caught by
Doorly’s brisk narrative, and, with a grow-
ing pile of books waiting, had to read The
Voyage of the Morning right through at one
sitting. That is the only criticism that this
book needs. A pleasant picture of Captain
Scott just returned from the gruelling
southern expedition shows him utterly un-
able to satisfy his appetite. “It was
the amount of food the three
members of the southern party consumed!
After a severe and lengthy sledge journey
on reduced rations the longing for food is
naturally great, and when it can be
obtained in plenty the result is usually a
gorge! Men get very sick after it, but go
on eating and eating, until in a few days’
time the digestive organs return to their
normal condition... .Scott only too fre-
quently visited the pantry to have another
go at the remnants of the dinner. Then
he’d surreptitiously steal into Wilson’s and
Shackletou’s cabins with fresh supplies
from the pantry!” During that night
Doorly was awakened at intervals by Scott
preparing sardines on toast and other
dainties for companions and himself.
This struck Doorly as being “at once humor-
ous and pathetic.”
Jt
Well, we’ll let Frederick T. Macartney
criticise himself: —
The exquisite redundancies
Of song
Do not belong
To these
Drab melodies.
The muse, 'enlightened, less prolix
Now yearns
For ..fair returns,
And picks
TJp other tricks.
Gommercium, by Frederick T. .Macartney
(Endacott, Melb. ; Is.), is a little thing well
done, which is better than a bigger thing
botched. This booklet should be on every
business-man’g or other robber's desk.
Macartney draws neat pictures of the staff
of any respectable commercial bandit; the
principal will find himself there, the account-
ant. the office boy, the traveller, the tvpiste
and even the just-as-human adding machine.
Macartney’s vision is purely objective, but
his portraits are sharply focussed. Take as
sample of his artistic neatness, “The
Typiste”:—•
An utterly misleading and inadequate iaea
of Australian landscape art is provided, by
James Ashton, of Adelaide, in his contribu-
tion to Art of the British Empire Overseas,
the special winter number .of The Studio.
In this edition Canada, Australia, Maoriland
and South Africa are represented, though the
fatuous editor still refers to the Dominions
as British colonies; and, judging by the Aus-
tralian results,, he has proved unfortunate in
his choice of local help. James Ashton’s
article on our landscape art covers the ground
in perfunctory fashion, but his selection of
artists for inclusion in his list is as remark-
able as his exclusion from illustration of our
leading landscapists. What can the over-
seas reader glean of Australian landscape
art without examples of Streeton, Hans Hey-
sen, Sid Long, J. ,T. Hilder and E. Gruner?
And what contribution to a distinctive land-
scape art is provided by names like A.
Colquhoun,' Edward Davies, Albert Hanson,
James Linton, A. McClintock, C. D. Richard-
son and Ruth Sutherland? "Certainly that
contribution cannot be discovered in the ex-
amples of their w r ork selected by James and
Will Ashton. At the least the Inclusion of
examples from these artists cannot fill the
gap due to the omission of those greater
names. The only color illustrations bear the
names of Will Ashton, W. Lister Lister and
John White. This amazing choice may, of
course, be due to the difficulty of sending
important works to England for color-repro-
duction. Though it is gratifying to note that
two South Australian artists risked sending
their masterpieces through the danger zone,
their patriotism does not compensate for this
shocking misrepresentation of Australian
art. The selection of illustrations devoted
to Australia is the dullest and least original
in the book —and whatever may be said of
our art, it is- not dull or lacking in origi-
nality. The Maoriland section is more satis-
factory, though the omission of any examples
of the art of James Nairn and Frances
Hodgkins is deplorable.
Sex-arrogance she modifies
With practical discretion
Between the nimble vse of eyes,
And fingers in succession.
Here petty smartness you behold,
Which, in default of hnowledge,
Has mental graces that are sold
By every business college.
You might ascribe her presence here
To sex-emancipation,
Were not. her goal the woman-sphere
That follows on flirtation.
So ’tis but chivalry to use
These girl amanuenses,
Who incidentally reduce
The cost of staff expenses.
Science
In Discovery, or the Spirit and Service of
Science (Macmillan, per Sydney Book Club),
It. A. Gregory pleads for our sympathy for
the scientist, who in the popular estimate is
a poor, soulless worm, even less important
than an affehbishpp. This necessary rehabili-
ation of the scientist proves to be a book of
absorbing interest, written with a lucidity
that will appeal to the popular mind. Gre-
gory prefaces his chapters with a series of
epigrams on science :
“We cannot command veracity at will;
the power of seeing and reporting truly is a
form of health that has to be delicately-
guarded.
“There is no lie in Nature; no discords in
the revelations of science, in the laws of the
.Universe.
“The.man of science had learned to believe
by justification, not by faith, but by verifica-
tion.
“I do not know anything, except it be
humility, so valuable in education as accur-
acy ; and accuracy can be taught.
“Scientific thought does not mean thought
about scientific subjects with long names.
There are no scientific subjectsi The sub-
ject of science is. .. .everything that is, or
has been, or may be related to man.
“When you call a thing mysterious, all
that it means is that you don’t understand it.
“Science is, I believe, nothing but trained
and organised common-sense.
“Science commits suicide when it adopts a
creed.
“The great tragedy of science—the slaying
of a beautiful hypothesis by an ugly fact.
“Nowadays the serpent that bites man’s
heel is in nine cases out of ten microscopic.
“Necessity is not the mother of invention :
knowledge and experiment are its parents.”
Books such as these are absolutely neces-
sary for the future health of the Empire.
Unless the British take a little more interest
in soience no victory will be able to keep
them abreast of the other races who know
the value of abstract science and the fre-
quently abstracted scientist. Yet, as Gre-
gory shows, science is absolutely starved in
England. The British Association has only
£lOOO each year to allocate among many
necessary grants for scientific research.
One interesting chapter is devoted to dis-
proving certain widely-held beliefs, such as
the belief that the climate of the world, or of
particular parts of the world, is changing;
the conviction that the moon influences in
any noticeable degree the weather; that “a
full moon eats up the cloudaf’ —“the fact
remains that no relationship of practical
value has been made out between the move-
ments— apparent or real — : of the moon, stars
or planets, and the weather of any part of
the earth.” Another widely-held belief that
heavy-gun firing causes rain is exposed as a
fallacy; and the author points out that the
firing of big guns in peace time was carried
on at Shoeburyness more frequently than at
any other part of the coast, yet the mean
rainfall at Shoeburyness, and the coast of
Essex generally, is the lowest in the British
Isles.
The scientist seldom looks fur financial
reward : he finds his reward in the joy of his
work and in its achievement. Apparently
the scientist, when he discovers a new law
of nature or works out a new problem in
higher mathematics, feels the same extreme
happiness that comes to a poet in his in-
spiration or the fisherman in landing a fish.
He gets too much fun out of the game to
need any other reward. And Gregory wisely
insists on the extreme value of a purely-
scientific motive. “The history of science
shows that the greatest advances have always
been made by men who undertook their in-
quiries into Nature without thought of
proximate or ultimate practical application
or pecuniary reward. The best kind of
scientific research cannot be carried on in an
atmosphere of commercialism, or where per-
sonal profit is the end in view.... Until a
sufficient foundation of pure science has
been successfully laid ther4 can be no
applied science. Real progress comes from
the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake.”
Gregory shows that the seven greatest
achievements of modern times had their
foundations in purely scientific work and
were not the result of deliberate intention
to make something of service to humanity.
A scientific investigator working in a labora-
tory was in every case the originator of the
fact or principle utilised in the seven greatest
wonders of the modern world:
telegraphy, the telephone, the aeroplane,
radium, antiseptics and antitoxins, -spectrum
analysis and X rays. The telegraph, for
instance, is due to an accidental discovery
made by a professor who noticed that when
a wire conveying an electric current was
placed lengthways over a compass needle,
the needle turned aside from it. He would
never have made his great discovery of the
action of galvanic currents on magnets had
he stopped to consider in what manner they
could possibly be turned to practical account.
"Instances are innumerable of investigations
apparently quite useless in the narrow sense
of the word which have led to the most
valuable results.” Nearly 50 years had to
elapse since Faraday’s discovery of the effect
of a magnet in motion upon a coil of wire
before it was used with commercial success
in the construction of the dynamo. The new
fields upon which so many important indus-
tries are founded are always opened up by
the modest assiduous bloke in his little
laboratory. The inventor of the thermos
flash did not trouble to patent it, since he
designed it only for use in his experiments
with liquid air. Huxley said that if a
nation could purchase a potential Watt, or
Davy, or Faraday at the cost of £lOO,OOO
down, he would be dirt-cheap at the money.
It is a mere commonplace of knowledge that
what these men did has produced untold
millions of wealth, in the narrowest economi-
cal sense of the word.
Hence the reader will not be surprised to
learn that in scientific circles usefulness is
never adopted as the standard of value; and
that, if not a single practical result is
reached by an investigation, the work is
worth doing if it enlarges knowledge or
increases our outlook upon the universe.
“Almost all the investigations upon which
modern industry had been built would have
been crushed at the outset if immediate prac-
tical value had determined what work should
be undertaken.” Science makes the dis-
coveries: it hands over the rest of the. job to
industrial research. The man of science
lays the foundations for the inventor.
Gregory points his moral: “In originality
and inventiveness the English mind will com-
pare favorably with that of any race, but
its attitude to scientific theory is super-
cilious, and the nation suffers loss by it. If
England does not lead in industrial develop-
ment, it is not because of lack of new ideas,
but on account of- want of scientific insight
among her manufacturers, and want of faith
in the'ultimate value of organised industrial
research.”
A book as fascinating—to the tough-
minded reader —as any novel.
An even more popularly written book
upon Science, covering and explaining every
department of science except that of medical
science, is Charles R. Gibson’s Scientific
Ideas of. To-Day, Popularly Explained
(Seeley, Service, fifth edition, revised;
6s. 6d.). The author writes in almost a
conversational style, uses homely illustra-
tions to familiarise the new knowledge, and
provides a detailed and absorbing survey of
the whole range of modern science. Begin-
ning with a chapter explaining what things
are made of, he proceeds to the structure of
the atom, explains the modern conceptions
of electricity, the ether, magnetism, energy,
light and color, and discusses questions such
as the age of the earth, the birth of a star,
the origin of life, and the cause of radio-
activity. As an example of his use of
familiar comparisons, Gibson thus pictures
the relative size of the electrons to the atoms
in which they exist: “Imagine a church 160
feet long, SO feet broad, and 40 feet high.
The space contained in this building is to
represent an atom of matter. Looking at
this epormousiy-magnified atom, we shoyid
have great difficulty in seeing the electrons
contained in it. Each electron wouldTbe no
larger than the full-stop at the end of this
sentence, and these electrons are the stuff
that atoms are made of.” And yet science is
able to count these electrons, and Gibson
shows you how it is done. Another marvel-
lous experiment enables the scientist to con-
trol those.infillft ely~sina 11 electrons which are
circulating around invisible atoms, decreas-
ing and increasing their inconceivably-rapid
speed at his will, and plainly observing the
result.
However, there is plenty left for science
to discover. “We have no idea of the nature
of the ether, life, or positive electricity; and
the long-standing problem of (he nature of
gravitation still remains unsolved.”
•
“Copabella”: “In a conversational man-
ner, with no pretensions to literary style,”
was a recent criticism on a book in these
columns. Thirty years ago an English
master at one of the great schools of 16th-
century foundation in the English Mid-
lands told his class that: “The basis of all
good composition is to. write as one talks.”
But how seldom is it seen. We now have,
as a standard, journalese : a. form of com-
position such as never was talked on land
or sea. By this I don’t mean jargon—that
“ventures to think” and is “understood to
say” nothing straightforwardly if it can be
“effected” any other way. I mean the good
journalese it is demanded of us of the dailies
to write. We report speakers of the h- less,
fir-scorning and negative-doubling type as say-
ing “Did I not?” “I have said,” “I am this”
and “I shall that”—but who ever heard
them do it? I’ve never been able to get a
“didn’t I?” an “I’m,” “I’ve” or “I’ll” into
any paper but The Bulletin yet! Is there
anything inherently iHi ter ary about an apos-
trophe? Every week I report men and
women as speaking'in flowing periods and
graceful grammatical consecutive sentences
—I have to —eschewing slang, pauses, long
parentheses, repeated conjunctions, involved
sentences, final prepositions and sloppy com-
pound home-made adjectives. Yet even the
most “culchawed” use all these; no one on
earth —not even a professor of English or a
suburban P.M. giving a verdict for 4d. —
ever spoke as an average paper is written.
Whence did this queer lingo arise? Does
it represent how a man thinks—or should
think when lie does? I’ve never thought
that way, anyhow. Thoughts, to me, are
the jerkiest, most parenthetic, hop-sklp-and-
jump things I ever handled—full of quips
and cranks, similes, faulty grammar and
irrelevaneies! As the morality of the drama
differs from that of every day and that of
business, and Sunday differs from both, so
there seems to be a similarity, a trinity in
English—the English of the text-books, the
English of the newspapers and the English
we speak. (Then, of course, there are the
Englishes spoken and written in America,
and the English (aught in the? Australian
State schools —different in turn from all of
them.) Take a recent Argus leader: —
The unfortunate result of the temporary ascend-
ancy of the Socialist extremists in Petrograd is the
determined * attempt being made by similar extre-
mists to impose what we may call a Socialist peace on
Europe. There is every reason to believe that even
in Russia the extremists, whose propaganda has so
seriously demoralised the army and hampered the
efforts of the Provisional Government to re-establish
order, arc enjoying a prominence and exerting an in-
fluence altogether unwarranted by their real strength
in the country.
What the leader-writer probably thought
was: “Looks as though the Russian bust-up
had started all the peace-cranks fizzing.
Makes things look dicky for the Allies.”
Well, why didn’t the man say it? Think*
how much more readable and understandable
the papers would be—and how it would
“draw” Wilson Dobbs and Archie Strong!
Now that the leader-writers are to be
brought under the broadening and inspiring
influence of the A.J.A. perhaps we may yet
live to see that happy day.


<aGe
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for Farmers’ Wants
Double-furrow, £23
Canton
Disc Plough
Emperor Sulky Hay Rake, £6/10/«
SENT
Stof
•"
iillill
Bentall’s GMF Kibbler, £B/10/-
Pony Feed Cutter, 77/6.
Wiard Gang Plough, £lO/5/
ALL THE GOOD POINTS which the MAN ON
THE LAND DESIRES in AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS are CONTAINED in THOSE
ILLUSTRATED on this page.
The RENOWNED CANTON DISC PLOUGH, in
treble-, double- and single-furrow patterns, has 26in.
discs, and is a most reliable implement. Treble Furrow
(weight 9001 b), £2B; Double Furrow (weight 7801 b.),
£23 ; Single Furrow (weight 6301 b), £lB.
The EMPEROR SULKY HAY RAKE is a well-tried
aid to efficiency. It has 24 steel teeth and covers Bft.
Price £6/10/-
BENTALL’S G.M.F. KIBBLER will grind 4801 b.
maize per hour £B/10/-
BENTALL’S No. 4 GRINDING MILL is also useful
and reliable £5/17/6
The PONY FEED CUTTER, at 77/6, will cut
Hay, Cornstalks and all kinds of rough feed. One man
can cut one bushel of hay in 35 seconds. Cuts from
3-16 to 2in. Weight, 1651 E
The No. 8 CORN SH'ELLER is a dependable
machine which will deal with 20 bushels hourly.
Price 85/- No. 15, a TWO-HOLE CORN
SHEERER, has a capacity by hand of 25 bushels per
hour, and 60 bushels hourly if worked by power.
Price £B/10/-
The WIARD GANG PLOUGH makes a double
furrow 22in. wide, and from 4to 8 inches deep. Has
soft centre steel mouldboards . ... £lO/5/-
The OHIO STANDARD FEED AND ENSILAGE
CUTTER is invaluable where fodder is siloed. it is
equipped with blower elevator and requires but slight
power to run. With Plain Tab le, £ 25; with Tra velling
Table, as shown, £6O
wrmnic*m
Bentall’s No. 4 Grinding Mill, £5/17/6.
®n
No. 8 Corn Sheller, 85/-
PAIE
iM
Ohio Standard Peed and Ensilage Cutter
Only* Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY,
N.S.W.


>
HAMMERLESS SHOTGUNS
MODEL 1912
Extra I/ight Weight
Made in 12,16 and 20 Gauges
There’s no need of carrying a
heavy gun. The use of Nickel
Steel makes it possible to get ex-
treme light weight with great
strength. But it costs more, and
so is not generally used. Win-
chester Model 1912 shot-
guns are constructed en-
tirely of nickel steel, which
makes it the lightest and
strongest gun on the
market. It is very hand-
some besides, and a relia-
ble, fine-shooting gun. Be
sure to see one before buy-
ing. Sold by all dealers.
THE REPEATER PAR EXCELLENCE
■
IP
m
A Record Display of Tools.
A workman without tool's is about as serviceable as a horse without harness. It
is “Tools” that tell the tale of the work, both as regards the expedition and the
finish of the job.
THE DISPLAY. —We don’t need to emphasise the importance of good Tools, but
we do want to emphasise the fact that for a complete, comprehensive display of the
very latest products of the Best English and American Makers our Tool Depart-
ment stands alone. We are, pardonably, just a little proud of this display,
particularly under the present War Conditions and Difficulties.
<*
THE GUARANTEE. —We invite every Tradesman, whether he be Carpenter,
Cabinet Maker, Plumber, Engineer, Mechanic, Electrician, Bricklayer, Gardener
or Bushman to call and inspect the Very Latest and Best in the World of Tools.
Remember! We Guarantee all our Best Quality Tools, replacing if faulty.
THE PRICE. —We have stuck to our well-known Policy of KEEN PRICING,
and every article is at minimum.
Don’t Forget that, for our Customers’ Convenience, the Tool
Dept, is Open Every Friday Night till 9.45.
“DANKS,”
Otherwise JOHN DANKS (SL SON PTY. LTD.,
“THE HOME OF BETTER TOOLS/’
324-330 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
LORRIES
Powerful !
Every FEDERAL lorry has plenty of reserve power to handle the
hardest haulage problem. No expense has been spared to make the
FEDERAL the best built motor truck.
FEDERALS are built in a factory that specialises in the manu-
facture of lorries. Years of experience and thousands of satisfied
owners have made the FEDERAL the standard the world over.
You will recognise the value of FEDERALS after they have
given you evidence of their strength.
FEDERALS are built in five capacities—l ton, ton, 2 ton,
ton, and 5 ton—worm drive exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative: BOX 635 Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[4
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma. Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1506. CURFS Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
ARE YOU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
22
J&
The pen he used
in the Trenches
be is using now in the hospital.
Through that last gallant charge and
through many a tough day’s fighting
before, that pen reposed in his pocket
ready for the moment when it, too,
should come into action. What a boon
it has been to him ! Always ready, the
instant he wanted to write, no matter
where he was, his Waterman’s Ideal
never failed him. If you want to do your
friend on Active Service a real kindness,
send him a Waterman’s Ideal, Safety
type , the best type for soldiers.
Three types—Regular, Safety,
and Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan,
Corner,
London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
nSBBBS
HOTEL 3
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day '
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Pa
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, pufiiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, _ stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys ar6
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
mzm®»
Kidney&Bladder Pills
These Pills also act on the liver, a
' HOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE * ','s|
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which, are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To, cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief—every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for flat
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one pf the above
symptoms no matter how long or bow badly
you have suffered.
Recipe to Darken Grey Hair
This Home-made Mixture Darkens Grey
Hair and Relieves Dandruff.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Rum loz.
Orlex Compound a small box
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used.
A half-pint should be enough to darken
the grey hair and relieve dandruff. It does
not stain the scalp, is not sticky or greasy
and does not rub off. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy.— Advt. [4
Jell Sfw V&U- if?
Jears*
stiff re
4C&tr
«?it
'.vXfW;
m
m
Dr a Allots
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
"Ihave sold it for oversoyearj}
L
BOnwinotonJs
IRISH MOSS
Sol 4 Here
1860
says the retailer ” and there is
nothing in my stock that I can
more conscientiously recommend
for coughs and colds than Bonning-
ton's Irish Moss. For. over half a
century it has been the standard,
never-failing remedy, and the public
have set their seal of approval upon
BONMINGTrt?
IRISH
IRISH'* 1 MOSS •
It acts like a charm in cases of Whooping Cough, Croup, Coughs and Colds which
are the children s worst enemies,
bt sure it’s Bonnington's.
Always keep it handy Summer and Winter, but
Large and Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Manila n, N.S.W.,
writes
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in the.
week. It is now 12 months since I last used tobacco,
and, although I am continually in the company of
smokers, I do not have the least desire to smoke;
therefore I consider the cure permanent,
“My general health is. now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as Irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only
remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will
give me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
:
B
m
■ m
'/IMS*
Firestone Specialists
build tremendousstrength
into this tube the exclusive
Firestone Way. Finest quality
rubber is piled layer on layer
to a stout wall of resistance
which means long, depend-
able wear.
Firestone Red Inner Tubes are
cured by the famous antimony
method to a remarkable heat-
resistance. And their density
prevents leakage, keeps the
air and holds the shape.
TYRES
This is the famous brand which,
in justice to our own standards,
we recommend to our patrons.
Equip for safety, comfort and
saving.
Grimier, Ltd.,
Sydney, New South Wales
F,A,McCarty&Co.,Pty.,iutd.,
Melbourne, Victoria
and Tasmania
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.
Adelaide, South Australia
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Perth, Western Australia
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co..
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wellington,
New Zeidaud
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for Illustrated Literature
m
3
rn,
rr
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Near and Far.
There’s a peak that I would scale
And a river I would ford,
And a sea I fain would sail,
And .a purple-misted vale
Where the thrush’s song is poured,
And I’d rest, with flowers around,
On the warm, sweet-scented ground.
In the quietude of dreams,
When the land lies mute and meek,
I can see my stream of streams,
And my vale of purple gleams,
And my pale, sky-piercing peak,
And my sea with winds astir,
Never sailed by mariner.
All the summits I have seen.
And the rivers, broad and wide.
All the valleys, dim and green,
And the silver seas serene
Are as little things beside
Space and splendor owned by me —
Peak and river, yale and sea.
From the dust the soul aspires
To lone splendors, set afar ;
Evermore its winged desires
Lose their passion and their fires
Ere they reach their destined star;
Making mirth for gods and men
As they sink to dust again.
Oh, that peak I may not scale,
Nor that gracious river ford,
And that sea I may not sail.
Nor set foot within that vale
Where the thrush’s song is poured,
And the loud, world-voices cease,
And a low wind whispers “Peace”!
Since the little hills are near,
And the little rivers call,
I shall don my pilgrim-gear,
Take what’s offered Now and Here,
And content myself withal,
Thanking Life (though poor it be)
For its hospitality.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Silver Youth.
Dim twilight with a ghostly hand
Powders with grey the purple air,
And mist-enchained the forests stand;
There is no movement anywhere.
A while ago
With laughter low
A bree*o set all the Bush a-blow.
O nun-like day, shy autumn day!
Where is the Wind who passed this way"/
Then whitely twinkled each great bough
With gleaming blades flung high in air,
And leaves were loud with song, but now
There is no murmur anywhere.
O eyes purblind!
Could we but find
A spell to track the hidden Wind,
Would we not risk our sight to peep
And see the Silver Youth asleep?
By some fern-shadowed pool he lies,
His limbs are clear as air ;
Curls of spun moonshine kiss those eyes
Whose waking glance darts everywhere.
A god he seems
Of water-gleams,
With mischief rippling through his dreams.
Shrink, timid day! But little ruth
For beauty has the Silver Youth.
He wakes, and your soft eyes and lips
Laughing he bares to the wild air;
The thrill of his light finger-tips
Strews icy sparkles everywhere.
Now swift and bold
Doth he unfold
Your bosom to the starry cold.
Shy day, your shielding veils are lost,
Death binds you fast with bridal frost!
VICTORIA.
EILSIE COLE.
Quiet Thoughts.
My thoughts are still, even as violets
That grow in gardens with but little sun;
No, tulip-bod upon a windy slope,
Blown to a quiver in kaleidoscope ;
Not clambering roses that with joy o’errun
The frowning dignity of fortresses,
Where cannon rust and there are oubliettes
And royal legends. Lowlier than such,
Regretting naught, nor hoping overmuch,
My thoughts are sweet —even as violets.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Playfellow.
Here we are now, drawing glad breath,
Tied to the earth—never a doubt of it;
Why should we weep for the coming of
Death ?
Let’s love the world that we’re in, till we’re
out of it!
Toss up your hats, bully gallants, and sing!
As for great Death, let us have a fine game
with him!
Plenty of honey lies under his sting.
Ho! the wild jester, don’t let us be tame
with him!
Lots of poor fellows wlio squirm in his fist
Miss dear delights might be won ere they
. get to him.
Ladies are many, all glad to be kissed
Till they bow down, every dimpled coquette,
to him.
Life’s full of joy that is ours if we choose.
Why should we snivel and fret and diminish
it?
Why should we whine like penurious Jews?
Ah, the sweet farce, if we laugh till We
finish it! | v
N.S.W.
JOSHEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


ms
.
mm
m i
XSG
A U
RDR
E
s
V
Are You Indifferent
to the merits of the “Perdriau’'
Tyre?
Is Your Indifference
due to your not having a proper
conception of all the good points
that are embodied in these Aus-
tralian-made Tyres?
Only the very best PARA RUBBER is
used in the tread, which contains more
rubber than any fancy-tread tyre.
The COTTON DUCK is the strongest
procurable, and the plies have such per-
fect adhesion that they will not come
apart even though the tyre should meet
with an accident and be run with a
liner.
The BROAD, HEAVY 3 RIBS of the
PERDRIAU are far superior to studs or
projections of the usual non-skid tyre.
They grip the road with a flat surface,
and, meeting it evenly, the PERDRIAU
rolls over rather than rubs against it.
Less rubbing means less wear, less wear
means more miles, more miles means
greater tyre economy.
“Keep the Home
Tyres Turning.”
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.,
ALL STATES.
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of theirßeferee
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
&
dr->
sfl I HI I •' 1111111111 l
c
A BREAKFAST
THAT NEEDS
NO COOKING.
“I’ve discovered the perfect breakfast dish put up in
C an?’—said a bright little woman to her friend. Her
discovery was
“REX” Lorraine
Smoked Sausages
T.orraine Sausages owe their delicious flavor to the perfect
“Rex” method of smoking and seasoning. They are packed in
a rich ielly. To serve hot simply immerse the tin in boiling
water for‘3o minutes, or, if preferred, you may empty into
Another Favorite in the Trenches
and at Home is
“REX” Luncheon Cheese.
EMEESIE
The “REX” CANNED DELICACIES include
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“R.,x” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, Ulb.
tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Bex” Ox Tongues in Jelly,
111 b and 21b. tins.
“Bex” Camp Pie in Jelly, lib.
tins. .
“Bex” Luncheon Cheese in ooz.
decorated tins, and ooz.
enamel jars.
Also “Bex” Lard for cooking
purposes, lib. prints.
Foggitt,Jones & Co. Ltd.
Carers of “Res" Hams and Bacon.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Produces.
PRUNING SHEARS.
Gaffy’s Patent Keen Blade
The merit of these Shears consists in both blades havinK
cutting edges, hence a perfectly clean cut of even stout
twigs can be made; the hark is not crushed nor buds
injured.
ALSO IDEAL FOK SHEEP’S FEET.
Price 7/R EACH
■ J Postage 6d.
If a tool is found defective, it will be exchanged.
N. GU T H RIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney
if
Q
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
LOW COST OF MAINTENANCE.
The stability of the Dodge Brothers Car is but a reflec-
tion of the stability of the institution itself.
Business houses, in a number of instances, have recog-
nised its longevity and small cost of maintenance.
Careful returns kept by those employing a number of
ears show figures that are gratifyingly low.
This all tends to explain the unusual demand there has
been for the Dodge Brothers Car since it was placed on the
Australian market only IS months ago.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


hgjghj
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 33.— N0. 1951
THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1917.
Price 6d.
BEHIND THE CURTAIN.
“Democratisation of the State is absolutely necessary.” —The Of German Professor Hentze.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office Of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Ihe
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per
annum. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions icill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and, others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, bos., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1917.
THE SAYING CITIZEN AND THE
WASTING POLITICIAN.
Hughes might as well get out of his head at
once the idea that by raising a few millions
through the sale of war-loan certificates for
small amounts to the less affluent citizens
the possibility of financial disaster can be
made any less real than he fears. However
desirable it may be that economy should be
practised and the consequential savings
loaned to the Commonwealth, any notion of
this being of itself likely to make the grow-
ing burden appreciably easier to carry is
sheer delusion. Suppose if by rigid economy
the “small” people who number 90 per cent,
of the population save £20,000.000. What
are the results? One is that the whole
of that sum will be swallowed up in part
payment of liabilities already incurred on
war mNount. The public debt of Australia
wL be neither Is. more nor Is. less at any
given ncment thereafter. That there are
adv,.utagis in having an internal debt rather
than being afflicted with a foreign mortgage
...re obvious enough. That it is in a way
good to have that internal debt in many
hands instead of a few can also be taken for
granted. But it is a gross fallacy to imagine
that the “saving” of pennies and shillings by
the many and converting the pile into a debt
to be carried by the same multitude pending
repayment of the principal is of any
national economic advantage. The coins had
a thousand times better be employed in keep-
ing out of debt; and the lesson for all Gov-
ernments is that in times of war the man
who can provide 3d. should do so and he who
can hand over £lO.OOO should not escape
attention. Unhappily, because of the blind-
ness which led to years of uninterrupted
peace being passed in the reckless accumula-
tion of embarrassment, this reliable old doc-
trine cannot be carried out to the end. But
that it can be followed a long way further
than the timid, halting steps of the hour
have carried this nation cannot be doubted.
If Hughes really believes that £20,000.000
more cau be got for the war from neople of
the class he is appealing to. he ought to get
it, not as a loan, but as a rightful contribu-
tion to the cost of paying their way. And
if he can get that from them he can get cor-
respondingly more from anotnei piace aim
keep the bubble from further inflation. Io
talk about what the people in England are
doing is to be trivial. The dominating fact
in relation to John Bull’s country is that
it is a creditor —to Australia that it is a
debtor. And there are the further vital
facts that .T. Bull is not and has never been
in the habit of importing vast masses of
goods for which he was unable to pay,
whereas the whole fabric of public and pri-
vate finance and of industrial earnings in
Australia rests upon perpetual indulgence in
that habit. #
This paper, because of the desperate needs
of the moment, hopes that the people of Aus-
tralia will save as much as they can of
their incomes. But The Bulletin has pro-
tested many times, and it protests again,
that in the scheme of national economy the
results of individual private “saving” are
negligible when collective public waste of
those savings and of the discounted future is
in full blast. It is impossible for Hughes
or Big.toiin or the 8. M. Herald, or anyone
else, to argue without inviting derision that
there would be any economic advantage to
Australia if the toiling crowd saved
£1,000,000 next week and purchased war
bonds, and the Federal Government there-
upon lent £750,000 to Bananaland and piffled
away £250,000 at Canberra, while Holman
borrowed another million or two in London.
Nor can it be shown that while a recklessly
wasteful system of Government continues,
while public revenues are being spent with a
prodigal’s disregard of prudence, and while
the purchase (on credit) of millions’ worth
of foreign-made goods is deliberately insti-
gated by Parliament, an appeal to private
“economy” is at rockbottom anything else
than a plea for the average man to contri-
bute towards the upkeep of monstrous evils.
Thriftless, spendthrift Governments; Minis-
tries through whose hands the public estate
is slipping away ; politicians whose adminis-
tration is a jest among the multitude; Par-
liaments reduced to the stage of demoralisa-
tion at which wastage and leakage are per-
mitted in order that votes may blossom at
the ballot-box! In the nresence of abomina-
tions like these, who can say that sermons
about the obligation resting on the crowd to
cut closer to the bone are other than in-
decent? And who is there can honestly say
that Australia is free from these pests? They
are daily sucking the blood out of the nation,
and everybody knows it.
That there is room for economy and saving
of the national wealth in Australia needs no
emphasis. But Hughes and the daily
papers and most of the alleged “leaders of
the democracy” are looking at their problem
with only one eye. The place for economy
and saving is, first and foremost, at the pub-
lic cashbox. And that is just where no Aus-
tralian is able to see either economy or
saving. While Australians are borrowing
millions of foreign money to buy foreign
goods and “provide work” on public jobs,
there can be no such thing as saving for pur-
poses of national salvation. All that has
got to be cut out first, and with it the
sinister political system it supports, and the
degrading sense of dependence on loans, and
the whole box of tricks that have loaded Aus-
tralia with a debt like unto the Himalayas.
When that is done the time will have come
for standing on firm, honest legs and doing
things that matter, instead of making sham
attempts, of which the laying down of rules
of private conduct and making hash of them
by public policy is one of the most dangerous.
AUSTRIA.
When Charlemagne, spearing and hacking
nations with Christian fury towards the bap-
tismal font,, struck the frontiers of Slav pro-
gress on the Danube, he realised that he was
up against a proposition of such magnitude
that he resolved to dig in and leave an army
corps or so to maintain the defensive while
he went to look for easier glory. That line
of defences—the eastern mark or march —
grew into Austria, which grew into tin
empire, which grew into a calamity. Not
that calamity was ever very far away from
the Austrian dominions; for the record of
the Hapsburgs, who in the thirteenth cen-
tury followed the extinct Babenbergs as
rulers over the mob of ironclad brigands
whose castles dominated a cringing country-
side, was one of perpetual aggression with
accompaniments of glorious throat-cutting. No
other family in the later Middle Ages—and
the Middle Ages stayed middling for a longer
time east of the Alps than elsewhere—was so
keen to add to its territories and push its
personal clajms in every possible way : and
the result was seen in the constant march-
ing of armies, and was heard in an endless
death-wail in the homes by the Danube. Iu
modern history Austria was more of a diplo-
mat than a warrior, and continued to extend
Hapsburg possessions even after serious
lickings in the field ; blit Vienna was always
truculent, and the best-walloped nation in
Europe never lost its faith in sword-rattling.
Maria Theresa, though as ambitious as the
rest of her race, gave the empire a twist
away from feudalism, and established a sort
of benevolent bureaucracy which made things
look very _ modern, without, however, seri-
ously altering the ancient names and institu-
tions. But her alleged reforms had nothing
democratic about them. Education was
made secular, and the power of the clerics
declined; yet the thing that did duty for a
Parliament was called together only four
times in her 40 years. It was Maria’s son.
Joseph 11., who wore under his gold, hat the
leal aspirations of the anarchist. As soon as
his mother was decently buried he started a
revolution of his own which was intended to
be as thorough in an imperial fashion
as the French one which came along a few
years later. When he put his notions to the
test, however, everything threatened to go to
smash; and with revolt and military and
diplomatic defeat all round, Joseph reversed
his policy and passed out. After that
Austria went back as far as possible
to the old ways. Democracy made
some slight progress in the nineteenth
century but didn’t make it by grace
of the Hapsbyrgs; and while Italy tore her
liberty from them by force and the Austrian
name smelt louder and louder in the nostri *
of free peoples, the men behind the insult
called an empire hung on to some vague
notion of the divine right of kings, and fan-
cied they were still back in the days of Otto
the great and Leopold the glorious. In
1848 a popular revolution of a sort shook
things up with some violence, but subsided
in mixed and surly futility ; and from time to
time great military and diplomatic defeats
lost to the Hapsbukg family the German
headship which it had once possessed. But;
nothing could overturn the settled idea that
force, aggression and territorial expansion
were the real bulwarks of dynasty and btate.
The Austrian confusion stood for modern
imperialism in its only possible .meaning.
and the spectacle was not an inspiring one.
The alleged cause of the present war was
the indignation of dodder, as represented by
Francis Joseph, over an assassination of
certain relatives which occurred while they
were doing an official gloat over some of the
empire’s latest territorial plunder. Any old
cause would have done as well, but there was
something fitting about the fact that the big-
gest of all international crimes should be
made to hinge on a Hapsburg desire for re-
venge. Outside a small circle in Vienna
nobody cared a Hungarian turnip how many
of the Emperor’s relatives were punctured ;
but because the Servian people—who as a
people had nothing to do with the puncturing
—wouldn’t absolutely crawl in the mud of
contrition before Francis Joesph, Germans,
Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, Ruthenians, Slovenes,
Italians, Ladini, Servians, Croats, Rou-
manians and Magyars, with a few more races
that did the Hapsburg bidding, had to go
out and suffer the hell of modern war and be
licked with all the modern trimmings. Such
a war reached the imperial ideal. The nomi-
nal ownership of lands and peoples by the
Hapsburg dodderer could be in its very
nature valuable only for war. For the pur-
poses of peace every nation in the imperial
combine could have gone its own way or
joined up with a big neighbor of its own race
and blood. Had the whole round dozen of
peoples concerned done so the Emperor would
have been in all respects just as well off
while the peace remained unbroken; but for
war purposes the imperial idea was, and still
is, that numbers alone count. Francts
Joseph would gladly have mopped up the
whole populated earth, if in doing so he could
have extended the military power that would
safeguard his dynasty and enable him to
threaten all men into submission. The very
name of emperor suggests a military estab-
lishment, meaning, as it does in the first
place, the head of an army. But the test of
real war —the war of nations which has
taken the place of the war of specially-col-
lected fractions of nations—has poked holes
in the imperial theory. The Austrian has
made a poor shape at holding his own. The
mob of diverse nations led to the awful sham-
bles, though uniformed on a plan that sug-
gested combination, had no general desire to
be victorious. The real victory of the indi-
viduals composing most of Austria’s fighting
forces could only be achieved by Hapsburg
defeat; and that defeat would have been
pretty thorough but for the weight of the
Prussian machine which lent its aid. Single-
handed the Hapsburg power did not appear
equal even to the task of smashing Servia ;
and every additional nation brought under
the sway of Vienna has proved in plain fact
to have been a source of weakness to the cen-
tral authority. Now, with the strain of the
long struggle beginning to tell and hunger
biting hard, the real day of revolution seems
near and a general breaking-up inevitable.
That the Hapsburg will go out on his
imperial ear seems to be about as certain as
that the Romanoff cannot come back to
reign in that other big land, which had the
advantage of uniformity in race and lan-
guage. If an empire cannot stand the test
of war—the only thing that gave it any
reason for existence- —it is clearly of no use
in peace. There can be no Austrian revolu-
tion, except as far as the original petty duke-
dom by the Danube is concerned. The mere
turning over of the country and the substi-
tution of republicanism for empire could
solve no problem. Race lies at the bottom of
the whole calamity, as it does at the bottom
of most large human questions. A breaking-
up of the whole mass into its component
parts and the self-government of each
according to its own ideas is the only road
out that. can be found; and then, unless a
heavy-weight world-police system can be
evolved, there is likely enough to be further
trouble ahead. Looked at calmly and from a
distance, the thing, that yesterday was called
the Austrian Empire is full of shuddersome
possibilities.; and it is this that makes Aus-
trian imperialism the shocking example it is.
Never yet have a number of diverse races of
men been held together in an imperial mili-
tary bond without the breakage of that bond
involving a fearful outpouring of blood. The
lesson for those who talk about new empires
with a military linking-up would seem to be
plain enough. Lands may be drawn into
great unions of sentiment and trade but
when they are thus united the result cannot
be called an empire in any true sense. Any
widespread military organisation which takes
m lands differing in outlook and aim—even
it the unities of race and language be pre-
served -must sooner or later come up against
sectional popular dissent; and the result
must be either a breaking away of a section
or its coercion into line with the rest. In
the. present war there are more than a dozen
self-governing countries, bound by no mili-
tary bond, united into the closest union in
cauSe of , humanity. Who can
doabt t hat s uch an alliance is every wav a
better thing than an empire of which Britain
I ranee, Russia, Italy, America, Australia
and the rest, were subject States? Plainly
on the showing of all history added to the
lessons of the present war. the day of world
peace cannot arrive until the last empire
goes. All merely artificial associations of
men with a military purpose are provoca-
tive ; and the world’s graveyard has too
many raw mounds for its peoples again to
assent to organisations of provocation
Hapsburg ambition is ending in horror and
t a ™ : and V l6 l uture horror and shame
would not be less but greater in the case of
a democracy that took up the running where
the discredited kings failed S
THE LABYRINTH OF CHINA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If anyone cares to look up The Bulletin
of September 4, 1913, he will find an article
in which I repeated a forecast I made first
in 1908. Briefly, it was that the Celestial
Empire would break into three parts—the
South, the Middle (or North) and the Far
North, the last falling eventually to Japan
or Russia. Over a year ago Japan quite
justifiably took over Manchuria, and her
railways and influence are spreading south
into what Old China regarded as the New
Kingdom. The latest cables point to the
early realisation of the prophecy concerning
the North-South cleavage.
* * * *
For very many centuries Chinese history
has been persistently repeating itself. A
generation of peace is followed by a decade
of rebellion and wholesale slaughter in a
larger or smaller area of the empire. This
feature is so constant that observers have set
to work to find out the cause, and inquiry
points to sociological and economic main-
springs. For 2000 years the vast Middle
Kingdom has been under the domination of
Confucianism. Buddhist, Mohammedan,
Christian —each of these and a dozen others
has had its little day; but the huge force of
national inertia has broken the waves into
tiny foam-flecks, and the religion of the
people has been, and is, ancestor-worship.
That he may be honorable after death a
Chinese marries young—at 12, or even
younger —and begins the work of providing
himself with descendants whose number
shall add lustre to his name and memory.
A system of concubinage facilitates his
endeavors, and he may die the blessed and
envied grandparent of 100 male descendants.
(Females don’t count.) The race spawns
five numerous generations to the Caucasian’s
scanty three, and this "mad frenzy of man-
making” predestines countless thousands to
direst poverty. The rites of ancestor-worship
demand that a man attend his father’s grave
at certain periods; and this prevents a
relieving stream of emigration from districts
that have become hopelessly overpopulated.
Sooner or later there comes a partial failure
of the crops. There is not enough food to go
round; the rich buy up lavishly, and thou-
sands go hungry. Then begins a dreadful
hunger-march. The weak die; the strong
are recruited by smugglers, bandits and loot-
ers, who presently become brave enough to
stalk through the country like a pestilence.
Sometimes there arises a.man strong enough
to weld a hungry rabble into an army, and
then civil war begins. Generally the out-
break is a minor local affair; sometimes it
attains the dignity of a rebellion and rages
for years. Within living memory the
Mohammedan and Taiping outbreaks depopu-
lated whole provinces. The lowest estimate
of the human cost of the latter (which was
backed by the missionaries and put down by
Gordon) is 45,000.000. Sometimes even a
new dynasty has been founded. Du Halite
describes the founder of the Han dynasty as
a private soldier who became a freebooter
and captain of a band of vagabonds. In
1368 a mendicant priest took charge of a
hunger mob, welded it by the magic promise
of limitless loot into an army of sorts and
established himself as the first of the Mings.
The Manchus found the Chinese throne
empty after nine years of civil war, occupied
it and restored order.
And such was the genesis of the Chinese
Republic. The howling absurdity of the
claim put forward by the Cantonese party,
that the rebellion was the result of years of
careful preparation of the people, is shown
by the fact that the greatest republican
schemer, Dr. Sun Yat Sen, was half a
world away at the time of the outbreak.
I urther, the turning powit of the trouble was
the frank offer of the Imperialist General
Chang Hsun to use his army on behalf of
the highest bidder. Then began a sauve qui
pent among the officials.
* * *■ *
Until a few years ago the offices of gov-
ernment were given into the hands of scholars
who attained their positions solely by
virtue of their ability to write theses on
Confuician philosophy. Their salaries were
insufficient to pay the expenses of their
retinue, yet they waxed fat and prosperous.
Justice was sold, successful business people
were, squeezed” and taxes were collected
pnndpaHy for the benefit of officials. Peking
did not worry so long as a certain amount
came along annually. Competent critics
agreed that if as much as 30 per cent, of any
tax collected by Chinese officials got into the
Imperial Treasury it was by accident. The
provincial mandarin protected his corrupt
subordinates m return for a share in their
spoil, and he turn was protected by a
coi nipt official in Peking—for a considera-
tion. VVhen the sauve qui pent began these
men, steeped in centuries-old tradition that
made corruption and civil service synonv-
mous, changed over, and are taking part in
the government of China to-day. Amongst
v IS ov U an!;l y-facile General Chang
cF'Y v 1 U> eaven hi the lump is repre-
sented by my garrulous friend Wu-Ting
Pang an English barrister, who can talk
r° b w y :‘ lse on this earth—and a
students. ‘" n ' and Japan-trained
nnii h 4 r <ui° U f lVe an attempt at a thumb-
nf ihtl v 0 th| material and conditions out
the w W i° lIDa is to arise ' and al »o of
nto ThS° ha l? t 0 f »se those materials
ti ti ue-sounding national goner. Five
years have seen three or four rebellions and
toYn°Z d4ta £- The one man sSong enough
She 2 reaW?^ aS YuAN Shih Kai, easily
dealm4 wlthHhe V Statesman who has had
ter-nlot wore \ e,st: ,nit Plot and coun-
manner l ron « man out, and the
triad to die <sL d „ a i h su^ests that he was
a constant* he Passed there has been
the lm'e neu w P . between the haves and
present turmoil finds ex P ressi on in the
a resolution upseb lSt ° ry Sb ° WS tha * whera
Government is as a a ’ ltocra GV ; the new
usurped. The kin?^ eS f°tt> C aS the one 1
to the h iaem,a T> . gs of France gave place
torn hv Ueign 0 f Terror; Russia is
impose* its £ last"?^ 011 ° f which wishes to
neror wal last law on the whole. No em-
- Fwen Stmar* thaE D J AZ of Mexi-
r ortugal is an unhappy camp.


Yet we are told that by adopting the name
"Chinese Republic” and waving a new style
of flag, the immemorial traditions of the
oldest civilisation on the earth, and the
racial traits of 400.000.1)00 people will be
changed—no, have been changed in five short
years! It is all fond, foolish dreaming.
Moreover, the old, old edifice of C'ainese
civilisation rests upon the arch of the three
relations, and the keystone of that arch is
the throne occupied by the Son of Heaven,
call him what you will, emperor, president
or what-not.
J. O. P. Bland, perhaps the keenest ob-
server of all. has written :
What are the prospects of Young' China’s evolving
an effective and acceptable administration under the
Republic before the dangerous elements of the com-
munity shall have thrown off the last remnants of
control ?. ... For myself, remembering the ancestry
and genesis of Young China, being personally
acquainted with many of its leading spirits, having
followed its opinions and activities in every province
from the beginning of the revolution, I am compelled
to the conviction that salvation from this quarter is
impossible; not only because Young China itself is
unregenerate and undisciplined, but because its ideals
and projects of government involve the creation of a
new social and political structure utterly unsuited
to the character and traditions of the race; because
it is contrary to all experience that a people cut
off from its deep-rooted beliefs and habits of life
should develop and retain a vigorous national con-
sciousness.
From what I have written it will be plain
that my own conclusions are almost pre-
cisely the same.
THE PARIAH.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Call to Billjim’s Mate.
Having cut off his trigger finger to placate
his enemies, Hughes could hardly . ha\e
been expected to take up the Conscription
rifle last Aveek. There is, instead, to be still
another recruiting effort, the maximum to
be aimed at this time being reduced to 7000
reinforcements a month. No fresh reasons
could of course be given why recruits should
come forward ; all the reasons there are have
been given 10 thousand times already. The
only fresh incentive offered for men to enlist
is that if they don’t they will not be able to
attend so many race meetings—and that
will probably influence about half a dozen.
True, something is said about repatriation
and giving preference to returned soldiers
when Government jobs are going; but all
that has been said many, many times before
—has been said so often and for so long
that, until something is done, it may do
more harm than good to say it again. There
are two things that really might count: (1)
a precise statement, published weekly, of
what has been actually done in the way of
“repatriation” for men who have finished
their bit and returned; (2) a grim determi-
nation to do a lot less for those who have
not either gone or offered to go. The
former means bringing the whole repatria-
tion business out of the clouds; the latter
involves the suspension of all loan-boom
expenditure and getting out of our present
Fool’s Paradise. To suppose that this coun-
try is going to become conscious of the awful
seriousness of the position by such petty
devices as shutting down on a .few race
meetings is superlatively ridiculous. ■ It is
merely suppressing a minor effect and
leaving the cause alone. That some nien
should be expected to go away and give their
lives while others stay at home and fatten
is monstrous. Heaven knows this paper is
no anti-Conscriptionist; but when the anti-
Conscriptionist asks us where is the justice
of this, what can we reply? There is no
reply,. Nor it there any more justice in it
under a voluntary system. For those who
stay at home profits are, generally, greater
than ever they were ; wages are higher than
ever they were. And thus far there is no
sign of the poisonous bubble being pricked.
Only last week the N. S. Wales State Gov-
ernment. feeling exceedingly virtuous,
announced that during the financial year
beginning on July 1 it would be content to
borrow and spend five millions. In plain
words: “We offer this inducement to our
men to go to the Front. If they don’t go
we will cut up five millions among them.
We will hand the bill to those who come
back.” Years ago this paper foresaw what
might happen and pleaded for Unification.
We did not get it; but we must have some
of the practical results of it now if we are
to do the fair thing by the divisions that
call for reinforcement. Meantime, though
the Prime Minister, with his tremendous
capacity for saying brilliant things and doing
foolish ones, cannot use Conscription, there
are others who are at liberty to at least
show that it is the only fair weapon to use.
In particular the case for universal war
service ought to be put to the men in the
trenches. If they then ask us for it they
must have it. Australia will not dare deny
it to them.
The Iron Trade and Something to Feed
It With.
A week ago The Bulletin had something
to say about the possibility of establishing
industries in Australia supported by the
capital of the Commonwealth Government.
If anything at all is done in that direction
it is advisable that first consideration should
be given to those industries which will have
most influence in bringing other industries
into existence. For instance, the first essential
of a myriad of manufacturing enterprises is
the presence in Australia of a plentiful and
constant supply of pig-iron at a reasonable
price. Without that we shall not only be
unable to go into numerous businesses that
ought to have been established long ago, but
we shall have to leave off making
many lines that have been produced since
the war gave us an unnatural Protection.
At present N. S. Wales alone consumes in
important but minor metal works something-
like 1500 tons of pig- and scrap-iron a week.
It is true that the State at its two iron and
steel works —the only two in Australia —
produces much more pig-iron than that. But,
so far as the foundries, etc., which call for
pig-iron are concerned, the more modern of
the two works—the Broken Hill Proprie-
tary’s, at Newcastle —can be ruled out alto-
gether. Its entire output of pig is consumed
in its own manufactures, principally steel.
Nor, though an additional furnace is now
being built, does it seem probable that the
outside users of pig can look for any help
from that quarter, because the limit of Aus-
tralia’s steel requirements which the co. can
supply has not been anything like reached.
As to the other iron-works —those of C. and
G. Hoskins, at Lithgow—approximately
half of the output of pig is absorbed by the
firm’s own pipe-making and other needs.
That leaves less than a thousand tons a
week for the market; and, as was said just
now, N. 8. Wales alone wants about 1500
tons. While shipping was available the
Australian shortage of pig-iron was supplied
by imports, mainly from the United King-
dom. That this continent, with its great
resources of iron ore and coal, should have
imported a ton of pig was, of course, mon-
strous ; but at any rate it was better to
import pig and work it up in Australia than
introduce the manufactured articles. Now
the German submarines have done what
should have been done without them, and
no pig is coming this way. So far the in-
dustries which are based upon iron have
pulled through upon scrap. But there is
a limit to the supply of this product of the
rubbish-tip; and that Australia is getting
towards the end of it, in a commercial way
of speaking, may be judged by the fact that
scrap is now worth about £7 per ton, and
looks like reaching £lO before long. In any
case, the supply is too small and too uncer-
tain to build large enterprises upon; and
no manufacturer is at all likely to go into
a new business requiring any large quantity
of iron unless he can see some better source
of supply. Yet it is nothing short of a
national disaster that we should miss the
present opportunity of supplying ourselves
with some of the millions’ worth of iron
manufactures which formerly were poured
into Australia. In the circumstances steps
ought to be taken to assure a sufficient out-
put of pig-iron for general consumption; and
if private capital is not prepared to take the
risk, then it should have Government support
in some shape. Indirectly, at any rate, the
Broken Hill Prop. Go. gets that support in
the shape of orders for rail and other steel.
Assistance of that kind can hardly, however,
be given in regard to pig-iron for general
manufacturers’ use. But other measures are
feasible: and there is plenty of precedent for
them. Thus when the Sulnhide Corporation
wanted an English company to build spelter
furnaces it a dividend on the
capital outlay for 10 years: and apparently
also the British Government has now guaran-
teed a market for Australian spelter over a
similar period. It is certainly no less im-
portant that the present and prospective
manufacturers of metal goods in Australia
should be guaranteed their raw material; and
this national service the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment might well undertake by negotiation
either with one of the present iron-smelting
companies or with some other group of capi-
talists.
♦ r
The Roof that Cannot Re Imported.
“Mujik” has a look at some Australian dirt:
Until the war interrupted proceedings most of the
clay, fiie and human intelligence necessary, td supply
the Australian roof with tiles came into collision
with one another at Marseilles. But the torpedo
quickly destroyed the connection. Most of the Mar-
seilles pottery workers hurried away to the frontier,
anyhow. Meanwhile stocks of the imported article
were eaten up, and Australian builders were clamor-
orously demanding more. The output of the local
tile was limited far below the requirements of the
hour. But there it was at last—-the whole Australian
market open to the Australian manufacturer, worker
and raw material.
The imported tile is not the only commodity cut
off by the war. Manufacturers and workers to
whom steel is the raw material soon found that
the world’s demand had sent prices soaring and
that munition-makers were taking practically all that
was available. Wherefore it happened that the
manufacture of steel ceilings in Australia commenced
to sag, and a firm which had carried on this busi-
ness felt that the time was ripe to get busy and do
something else. They turned to the roof —and now
out on the flat at Granville, near Sydney, what was
a year ago a patch of tea-tree is decorated with works
and kilns from which the local clay emerges as the
“Waratah tile.” The works are already big. Yet
they will be soon doubled. And everything on the
premises except a gas-engine was made in Australia,
and Australians are running the show. This writer is
not a critic of tiles. These may or may not yet be as
good as the imported. But the works manager says
they are, and the boss potter gives corroborative
testimony, and they both are critics of tiles. The
writer leaves it at that, and hears the story of the
start —of how an experimental kiln was set up
and the practical side mastered from A to Z; of
gas-burning trials still in progress and the output
for months ahead being sold. The .main thing about
it all is that here is a modern factory turning out an
article formerly imported by the shipload and through
present and prospective operations affording a field
for the encouragement of Australian ingenuity and
skill and the absorption of Australian labor. And it
is all the result of a prohibitive tariff —in the shape
of German submarines and lack of shipping.
Works such as these are worth to Australia more
than a century’s talk 'and all the millions that ever
were borrowed. They- represent something done —
actual achievement in the way of self-reliance. How
much Australia can yet do in this direction can be
ascertained by contemplating the nation’s horrible
trading statistics and the mournful records of a
borrowing jag mostly promoted in order that the
job of doing things migiht be comfortably dodged.
Tlie Wuniiermchs are the people who shoved this
particular enterprise into being, and because they
are good Australians, with artistic sense and a great
faith, the suburban roof need not be imported;
nor Australian clay be again regarded as mere
dirt. But whether Australian clay will presently be
merely dirt once more depends entirely upon whether
the prohibitive Protection which Win helm gave us
without meaning to will be succeeded by an equally
prohibitive Protection which we shall give ourselves.
Apparently the Fusion’s policy with regard
to “repatriation” is to get Millen to break
the silence occasionally by crashing a few
idle phrases together. Twice lately this
Minister has been heard from, and both
times he confirmed the testimony previ-
ously given that he is as far from the crux
of what he vaguely calls “the problem” as
Billjim is from Berlin. The idea seems to
be to persist in doing nothing with great
assiduity in the hope that the public will
arrive at a mistaken conclusion about the
tremendous amount of thinking that is being
accomplished by Cook or someone. Actually,
all that Millen has to say is (1) that some-
thing must be done; (2) that the Fusion
intends to do it; (3) that there must be
co-ordination, which is a blessed word like
Mesopotamia; and (4) that if the public
assists the scheme will be a great success.
This is mere juggling with ambiguity, and
ambiguity is no good to Billjim. Hence,
for the 743rd time, Millen is exhorted to
say in simple terms what he proposes to do,
and, incidentally, knock off using vague lan-
guage. If he doesn’t he will soon begin to
wear the appearance of a conscious humbug.
♦
It may be that some magic in the word has
moved the Victorian fruitgrowers to set
about forming a “pool,” though how that is
going to help them dispose of their surplus
produce hasn’t been explained. The main
trouble in the fruitgrowing business is that
whereas the orchardist averages about 3s. a
case of 401 b. for his yield, the consumer has
to pay an average of 3d. a lb. for it. If the
grower will get single cases to the consumer
at 2d. a lb. for prime stuff at a cost of 4d.
per lb., the resultant ss. a case will pay him
well, and the demand will be vastly greater
than it is to-day. Cooked or raw fruit should
be on every meal table in Australia through-
out the year, and would be with a little
encouragement. If, when he has done this,
the orchardist got his own jam factories and
canneries, with distilling plants for turning
unsaleable fruit into spirits, there would be
no more worrying, about good fruit going to
waste. But it calls for unselfish co-operation.
“Tommy Kangaroo” : The Commonwealth
Government is evidently not a bit inter-
ested in the thousands of Light Horsemen
and Camelry who have been killed and
wounded at Komani, Kata. Qatia, Maghdaba
and Gaza, for there is no one in Sinai to
officially record their splendid achievements.
Bill.ll.\i does not want pull: pars, and boost-
ing, but he does want justice, and he’s not
getting it. Komani was an Australasian
victory almost exclusively, for we suffered
87 per cent, of the casualties; but when
the rewards, medals and foreign decorations
were handed round the boys from the Sunny
South didn’t get anything like their share.
Quite a lot of the plums were passed on to
Generals, staff-officers and others in the
British Army who never even saw Romani!
And the British papers were full of the
glorious achievements of our mounted troops
and our Desert Column, but there was no
one to tell them that the Australians and
Maorilanders attended to 09 per cent, of the
job. Only now. nine months after Komani.
does anybody seem to realise how much the
Anzacs have done out here. At present
there is the sanguinary fighting at Jard:
but Australia won’t know the full facts for
12 months or so—perhaps never. Almost
certainly never, I should say.
After three years’ experience of them the
Argus has discovered a profound disrespect
for the gentlemen appointed by Government
to suppress facts and permit fictions in the
newspapers:—•
We cannot conjecture other grounds for the censors’
action without suggesting their unfitness for work
which demands intelligence and discrimination... .It
is not the newspapers that are injured by the policy
of unnecessary secrecy, but the public.
Three years was a long time in which to
arrive at a conclusion that might have been
come to in three minutes. Indeed there was
far more reason to kick against the first
three minutes’ experience of the Censorship
than against the last three months’. Nowa-
days one can speak upon most things witli
reasonable freedom: in those early days
(and that was when Millen and not
Pearce was Minister for Defence) this
paper was required to abstain from being-
honest even in its criticism of the balance-
sheets. etc., of public companies! Wherein
Pearce and his master llugties committed
their offence against the public was in using
or permitting the Censorship to be used for
political purposes. But there is very little
of that in these later days; and what there
is of it is almost always designed not to
save the politician so much as to protect
the limpets that hang round the politician's
chair. And the politician is in nearly every
case the Defence Minister, and the limpets
arc the wasteful incompetents of bis depart-
ment. who excuse their suppressions on the
ground that what it is desired to say would
be “prejudicial to recruiting.” So long
apparently as we have this voluntary system
so long evidently will the truth be kept from
the people.
+. ..
“Vance P.” : The beef barons are better able
to look after themselves than Cocky with his
wheat; nevertheless the loss they are suffer-
ing on the Imperial deals seriously dimin-
ishes the taxable earnings of Australia. All
our beef and mutton is commandeered for
army purposes, but Canada and South
Africa, not to speak of the Argentine and
other foreign countries, have been given a
free hand in the British and Allied markets
and are piling up enormous profits. Elder.
of John Cooke and Co. Pty., Ltd., estimates
that one foreign company alone has made
more profits since the war began than the
aggregate value of all the Australasian freez-
ing works; and he believes the reserves these
cos. are accumulating will be a serious
menace to the Australian beef industry in
the future. It seems as if Australia has been
bitten badly all round. The Australian lamb
and mutton that the British Government lets
loose on the civil market is sold at a price
several pence lower than the foreign article.
The buyer doesn’t, of course, credit that to
Hughes’s generosity or anything of the
sort; the lower price merely creates the im-
pression that Australian meat is of inferior
quality, and it will probably take years for
Australian beef, 'at any rate, to regain the
ground it had won in the British market
before the war. What was the purpose of
the wholesale commandeering of our supplies
at a comparatively low price? A cable
message last week said that cattle had never
been so plentiful in Britain as to-day, and
there has been no attempt to pool the home-
grown supplies of beef or control foreign
prices. Plugiies might well explain his share
of the transaction. At present he stands
accused once more of colossal blundering.
Joseph Woolf, who makes a hobby of
international law and incidentally earns
The Bulletin’s six-and-eightpence in Mel-
bourne, wants to turn up his shirt-sleeves
to the German. “There is a curious mis-
conception.” he writes, “as to this term
‘reprisals.’ It is assumed that it is blood-
thirsty vengeance and would lower the
morality of persons indulging in the policy,
as if it were the Mosaic law: ‘An eye for
an eye. a tooth for a tooth’: —
“To punish Germany for her criminal and savage
murders of innocent children by submarines and
aeroplanes is not to enforce the Mosaic law, as the
basis of such a policy is not retaliation, but pre-
vention of the murder of children who are unable
to protect themselves. If you give notice, e.g.,
‘that you will cause a mine to explode when the
Germans shatter British children, and that this wHI
annihilate German children,’ you place the responsi-
bility for this result upon the .Germans.
“International law clearly recognises the right of
reprisals based upon necessity and the right of self-
preservation and prevention.
“Here it is justified not by way of revenge but ‘to
the extent by which the enemy may be deterred
from a repetition of its offence.’ (‘lnternational
Law,’ by W. E. Hall, M.A., page 380.)”
All of which is doubtless quite correct. But
there is this other point. The murder of
English children does not make Britain one
atom less disposed to push the war to the
bitter end. It does not make Britain one
atom less capable of winning the war. It
makes her more resolute to win. Is there
any reason to expect that it would have
any different effect on the Germans? Pro-
bably not. Then the result of the war is
not going to be affected by the murder of
children. But the withdrawal of aeroplanes
The Silent Service.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a squadron cruising the wide wet
way from here to ends o’ the earth,
From the broadest range of ocean blue to the
narrowest river and firth,
Manned by a roving, reckless horde that
came from Goi)-knows-where,
Who’d sail their way through Hades Bay
were a cargo offered there.
Oh, it’s hoisting yards with best regards to
the lasses on the pier,
-4s the motley throng breaks into song and
the tiny tug hauls clear ;
It’s fare ye well, my bonnie gel, with the
landmarks dipping low,
We’re back to the frolic of floe and frost and
the grace of the winds that blow.
From the Inland Sea to the King Isles three,
Quebec to the River Plate;
From the Thames-swept Nore to Singapore,
Good Hope to the Golden Gate ;
From the Carabees through unknown seas
past islands none have hailed,
To the farthest flare of Cross and Bear has
the Scattered Squadron sailed.
Oh, it’s near beam-ends in a crazy tramp,
ivith cargo adrift below,
Loaded beyond the Plimsoll mark as the
freighters often go,
Buffeted, batter’d by wind and wave, bur-
rowing through the sea,
And fetching port near the borderland of
old Eternity.
No lettered instructor courted they, nor book-
lined swatting den;
Far from the college of jamb-and-cram they
gleaned their secret ken.
Out on the soundless, boundless deep, where
rough-and-ready is rule,
Taught by the rubric of dare-and-do with
the world at large for school.
No sun nor a star to steer her by, no blink
of a beacon’s gleam,;
Only the hooter’s dismal notes ahead, astern
and abeam
{lt’s a fine for mails that are overdue in
fair, in fresh or fog!);
So it’s full ahead by luck and lead and the
Ananias log.
Uncharted rocks they needs must know
and reefs marked out of place,
The devious routes of the undertow, cross-
current and wild tide-race,
Where shoals are stretching away to sea. or
compasses circle round ;
For they have learned in their far-flung
school what the college has never found.
Oh. it’s overside ivith the heavy freight and
hedge her clear of shoal,
Or flinging fittings to furnace fires with
bunkers lacking coal;
Its tink’ring gear that were better scrapped
with makeshift tools for graft ,
And plunkety-plunk to the nearest port on
a sea-rigg’d screw and shaft.
Though savage swine strew the deadly mine
o’er waters they must sail.
And the submarine Spits forth its spleen, the
squadron keeps the trail;
Though fish have fed on their frozen dead
that the drifting rafts may spill.
What is a blow from a frantic foe when the
whole sea fights to kill?
It’s a trawler doing the daily round or
sweeping the trade route clean,
Or a liner ramming his fo’c’s’le-head through
a pestilent submarine;
And countless the funnels belching smoke, as
deep, from a hundred shores
The red-ragg'd Navy steams ahead with men
and guns and stores.
Not theirs the glamor and gloried gain ; theirs
but the unsung toil.
To carry along through right or wrong the
load of the great world’s spoil;
Unmarked on the scroll of the army roll.
unsigned in the naval crew ;
Branded by both as hermaphrodite ; yet—life
or death to the two !-
Oh, what is the toll of the merchant roll?
Ask ye the witch o’ the wind;
Their widows have never a pension right, nor
the children left behind;
The scattered, stoneless world-end tombs;
mollies, goneys and gulls ;
And the nymphs and sirens of Davy Jones
who bide in their sunken hulls.
SOMEWHERE AT SEA.
JACK HAMILTON.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., tk
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co.. Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarilj
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof including the
levy, the Stocks of Whisky. Goodwill. Trade Marks, etc., have been acquited bj
the Stirling Bonding Co.. Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
C*AFLIC WHISKY
heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteiistics of t
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
■r'
©
p Qc*\sCf}
<vo
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. A 4c eTfECto'
rTRr ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
rKUWri 111 G now All D POPE. Gen
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
and men to murder children may more or
less seriously affect the result. In other
words, the withdrawal of men and machines
from the Front to kill children would not
help to win the war, but might certainly
help to lose it.
Another Winter of War.
It is midsummer in Europe now —and they
are getting ready for another winter of war.
It is not in Germany and Austria alone that
there is uncertainty about what will be left
in the pantry when spring comes round
again. But it is highly probable that both
Austria and Germany are more nervous
about it than they have ever been before.
So far most of the stories regarding shortage
of food in those countries have been rubbish ;
but things are rather different now. Formerly
Uncle Sam was greatly concerned about
maintaining trade with European neutrals;
discovery that much of this commerce has
been digested by the armies of the Father-
land has, however, induced him to do some
quick thinking. And the results thereof are
not going to bring any joy to Berlin. On
the other hand, the submarine continues to
give Britain very little cause for joy, either.
It is still most damnably destructive and.
in conjunction with the military and naval
demands of the United States for shipping, is
clearly creating a position from which Aus-
tralians are going to get a sharp reminder
that beyond the equator a struggle to the
death is going on. It may even be shown to
us before long that in no other way than by
providing men can Australia help the Allies
—that, as for sending food, we can do
little more than provide meals for our
own soldiers on foreign service. Lloyd
George speaks still with confidence —
but always with the qualifying “if.”
The end will be right if there is no quailing
ind if the Western armies and people stick
it out. Even if he be not right about one
thing, he certainly is not wrong about the
magnitude of the job. Under no conceivable
'•ircumstances now can Germany win. But
unless Germany is beaten and the militarism
of Pruss'n torn up by the roots, the Western
democracies will have failed. And Germany
cannot be beaten unless her enemies make
the same g : gantic. sustained effort, that she
herself is making. No man ought to allow
himself to be deluded into a comfortable
feeling bv cock-and-bull yarns about victory
here and victory there. There have been
limited local successes —that is all. The day
of victory in any real sense is still far off.
But all the time the Allies’ war-machine is
being gradually perfected. Britain in particu-
lar started off with an army officered for the
most part by men who were expert in noth-
ing but the art of filling in time. As a
result we have had frightful exposures of
incompetencv at every point at which the
earlier history of the war has been explored.
The scandal of Gallipoli has now been fol-
lowed by the scandal of Mesopotamia: and
if the same inquiry were made in Austral'a
it would unquestionably be found that if the
same gross incompetency did not produce
the same crop of troubles, it was simply
because the ground was occupied by another
crop equally thick. With us the business
side of the organisation has probably been
the worst. For many months past an
Inquiry Board has been at work reducing
the chaos to order. Now, that having been
done, more or less, the Department appoints
a committee of business men to assist the
Minister. We shall no doubt presently have
a report from this committee. But unless
we also get a report from the Board of
Inquiry, we shall never know the chaos for
wb ; ch Pearce and Pearce alone must be
held responsible before the people.
From Professor Baldwin Spencer:—
In The Bulletin of May 31 there appeared a
paragraph entitled “Black Brother and the Law.”
It dealt with the case of an aboriginal recently sen-
tenced to five years' imprisonment at Darwin for
attempting to murder a white man’s family by plac-
ing poison in their food. It says that “a nigger, one
Rojiula, objected to the usual white having the
usual Territory lien over his missus, using, allegedly,
a little arsenic to convince the white man that the
lady was not common property.” As Romula most
wisely decided finally to plead guilty, the evidence,
which was absolutely conclusive, did not come before
the jury. Had it done so and had the public heard
the fuil record of how a family had narrowly
escaped massacre at the hands of a native to whom
for many years past nothing hut kindness and con-
fidence had been shown, it is doubtful if so light a
sentence would have been recorded.
Everyone in the Northern Territory knows that
this paragraph refers to the aboriginal station at
Oenpelli, on the E. Alligator River. Everyone in
the Territory knows also that the officers in charge
of this station —Mr. and Mrs. Cahill —whom together
with their young son and a relative. T. O’Brien,
Romula tried to poison, are the only Europeans
living within some days’ journey of the station, and
everyone also knows that they are the very last
people to countenance any such things as it is sug-
gested that Romula complained of.
During the time that I acted as Special Commis-
sioner and Chief Protector of Aborigines in the
Territory I spent some two months at what is now
the Alligator River Reserve for natives, and, during
that time and on other occasions when we were
travelling and working together, 1 have had ample
opportunity of noting the admirable way in which
my old friend and companion “Paddy” Cahill —
the well-known bushman and buffalo hunter of the
Territory—dealt with the natives. No one in the
Territory understands them, their language and their
customs, as well as he does; no one has a more
kindly feeling towards them, and by no white people
have they been treated with greater kindness, under-
standing and consideration than by him and Mrs.
Cahill.
The very fact that the native Romula has been in
“Paddy” Cahill’s employ for more than 20 years
and that his lubra was, at the very time when her
husband attempted to poison his greatest benefactors,
working daily in their house under the most com-
fortable conditions, simply shows that the aboriginal
of the Far North is liable to sudden fits of aberration
when, perhaps brooding over some imaginary griev-
ance or used as a tool by someone else, he attempts
to injure those to whom he is most indebted for
kindly treatment.
Of course, The Bulletin neither said nor
implied anything against Cahill’s treatment
of the aborigine. His reputation is. in fact,
precisely what Professor Spencer says it is.
A Manning (N.S.W.) shire council dis-
cussion raises a suspicion that the working
of the Diseased Animals Act requires over-
haul. Under the Act the inspection of
slaughter-houses in country districts is sup-
posed to be done by the police, and this is
the way this councii’s president reckons it is
done in his district: —
Some of the inspectors had failed regularly to send
iu returns of condemnations. Only one officer had
done this regularly. The return from the Sydney
Meat Board showed that of the cattle slaughtered
there during six months 5.2 per cent, were affected
with tuberculosis, 5 per cent, with actinomycosis,
and 0.1 per cent, with cancer. in the Manning
shire a return showed that 213 cattle, 2808 sheep
and 632 pigs were slaughtered during the year, and
out of these only three condemnations were recorded
—less than one per thousand, while in Sydney those
affected were 100 per thousand. He had no doubt
diseased cattle were going through.
Another councillor said it had been proved
beyond doubt in committee that a cancerous
beast had lately been killed and consumed
in the district. It is an unpleasant story,
and suggests the query: How do things stand
in other districts? It is little use throwing
stones at the police. They are loaded with
too many jobs: and even if they weren’t,
the average John Hop doesn’t pretend to be
an expert in stock diseases, and the detec-
tion of cancer, tuberculosis, etc. —especially
in their incipient stages—is properly an ex-
pert’s business.
From an old colleague:—
On the very day that an Inky Way par. announced
his promotion to second lieutenant the Trinity Col-
lege flag was floating at half-mast over Melbourne
University in mourning for the death, by gunshot
wounds in France, of Philip Schuler, otily son of
G. F. 11. Schuler, editor of the Age. He was only
28—good pressman, clubman, tennis player and actor
in amateur theatricals. Schuler entered Melbourne
Grammar in 1901, was in the athletic team in 1905,
and matriculated the same year. In 1906 he went to
the University, and held a commission in the infan-
try, and, later, the Intelligence Corps. Joining the
Age staff, he went with the First Expeditionary Force
to Egypt and Callipoli as war correspondent, and wrote
“Australia in Arms,” receiving valuable help, in
putting through the proofs in London, from John
Reay Watson, Bulletin contributor and former Age
reporter. On his return to Melbourne he joined the
Third Divisional Train as a driver, and took his
lithe figure and sunny smile to the Front, where the
end came on June 23 at the 2nd Australian Casualty
Clearing Station. His friend and C. 0., Lieut.-Colonel
R. Dowse, was there to close his eyes. Per castra ad
astra !
“Records” : Prior to the close of the finan-
ce! year the N. S. Wales Government
rushed through a Gazette list of all public
service increments and increases affected by
the decision to raise salaries under £325 a
year. Included in the list was a salary of
£275 dating from January 20, 19115. to a
feminine Inspector of Domestic Immigrants.
This position was given to a sister-in-law of
a very prominent politician, and is attached
to his own Department. The importation of
domestic immigrants lias been a gone-bung
industry for a very, very long time, but in
its absorbing desire to win the war—by
economy, for instance —no doubt this fact
has been overlooked by the Government.
Died last week, two ancient and honorable
Bungs. One was J. O. Wascoe, who in the
very long ago kept an inn on the road over
the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.). In the early
days the railway station, now called Blax-
land. was known as Wascoe’s. The other
host to blow the light was William Henry
Ireland, of Burwood. The name is the oldest
on any roll of innkeepers in Australia. In
1832 Dr. Ramsay built an inn on his estate
at Dobroyd, at the junction of the Liver-
pool and Parramatta roads. He called it
Speed the Plough, shortened afterwards to
The Plough Inn —noiv in the thick of the
Western Suburbs. The first tenant of this
Plough Inn was John Ireland, who later
pushed out as far as Burwood. still keeping
to the Western-road ; and the name has been
over the door ever since.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Canary Cottage”
Criterion "Cood Gracious, Annabelle”
Palace “Look Who’s Here”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady”
Royal “Grumpy”
King’s “lag o' My Heart”
Princess’s “The Story of the Rosary”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt's De Lt xe ,V Olymria Moving Pannes
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Rritaxnia Moving Pictures
A flimsy, impossible, yet deliberately com-
plicated plot; sparkling dialogue, burlesqu-
ing the latest New York fads, such as vers
libre and the psychological method of crime-
detection ; obtrusive melodrama ; a romantic
motif incongruously mixed up with farce;
one original stage setting and one artistic;
a host of characters that do not matter;
Graham Browne —and Marie Tempest: this
is “Good Gracious, Annabelle,” first pro-
duced in Australia at Sydney Criterion on
Saturday.
Annabelle and her friends find them-
selves at a New York hotel without the dol-
lars to pay for the expensive lunch Anna-
"GOOD GRACIOUS,
ANNABELLE,"
at Sydney Criterion.
Graham Browne as
Geo. Wimbloton.
belle, a most irre-
sponsible 1i 11 1 e
lady, has ordered.
There is nothing
else in the first act
except frequent at-
temnts to borrow
cash from impecu-
nious persons, in-
terspersed with
heavy chunks of
assorted plot. Then
the innocent Anna-
belle finds herself
in danger of being
cited as a co-re-
spondent. She
seizes the chance
of disappearing by
engaging herself as
cook at a million-
aire’s Long Island
palace, and takes
with her all her
friends as fellow-
servants. The audi-
ence is disap-
pointed in the next
act by not seeing
the mess these in-
competents would
have made of their
jobs. Instead, the
author shows us a
chronically - ineb-
riated millio n a i r c
making improper .proposals to his fascinat-
ing cook, and the arrival of Annabelle s
mislaid husband.
But the plot doesn't matter : all that mat-
ters is the dialogue and Marie Tempest.
Without this artist the farce would not have
survived longer than the first act on the
first night. As Annabelle she is the daintiest,
most irresponsible co-respondent that this
paper has ever corresponded with. She has
the delicate charm of a (fence; she pirou-
ettes through the clumsy plot with an irre-
sistible abandon. Graham Browne, too, has
the exact comedy touch. His charming and
continual jag is an obstacle in the way of
the anti-shouting movement; his smile would
make even Archdeacon Boyce see the error
of his ways, and if he could be retained and
kept permanently unsober till the end of the
war we might see the hotels once more open
till 11. Frank Harvey is butchered to make
a farcical holiday. His earnest and forth-
right methods are wasted in this airy absurd-
ity. Mrs. G. Lauri furnishes a remarkably
engaging character-study of a modern slavey.
Leslie Victor makes all there is to he made
out of a modern detective; he is a salubrious
change towards reality from the detective-
superman of innumerable American dramas.
It is not the actor’s fault that much of his
business was Choctaw to an Australian
audience. There are nine other characters,
either inconspicuous or conspicuously out of
key with the quality of the farce. If the
play prospers it will be entirely due to the
versatility and charm of Marie Tempest.
The Gonsalez Co. is still thrashing out its
revival season in Sydney Opera House.
“Carmen” followed “Lucia.” and the lady, of
the kilts came on the heels of “Cavalleria”
and “Pagliacci.” Leoncavallo’s snippet of
tragedy is one of the co.’s best performances.
In Balboni the cast has a C-assio who com-
mits murder to thunders of applause —a feat
that can only be accomplished by a tenor of
hurricane temperament. “Lucia” gave us
Miss Gonsalez in the part she made vocally
brilliant last year. But the favorite soprano
shows signs of fatigue. She has overworked
her liquid notes and needs a rest. There
are no signs, however, of the producing
any satisfactory understudy. Tenor Cap-
pelli wandered amongst the tombs _of his
ancestors as Edgar, and scattered lyric gems
of melody, dying with undiminished lung
power on an exquisite top note. “Migndn’
is this Thursday’s souffle.
“Book Who’s Here” got away to a flying
start at Sydney Palace last Saturday, and
Sydney James and Jack Waller, who
assembled the show, should be able to
take things easier for several weeks.
It is smartly mounted and costumed.
Pierrot-fasliion, in black and white, consists
of a lot of concert-grade music and singing,
a little distinctive dancing by Madeline
Rossiter. some Sydney James ventriloquism
and a few theatrical and musical burlesques.
James has gathered some new talent round
Strollers Desmond, Graystone, Connie
Milne, Cecilia Gold and others. The best
addition is the Ideal Trio, consisting of
Gregory Ivanoff (violin). Wylie Watson
(’cello) and Frederick Dennett (piano)
three very capable musicians. Dennett and
Ivanoff score well in separate star items.
A confused burlesque of “Turn to the Right”
and “Canary Cottage” is about the only dud
in a crowded bill of 25 items that ends with
a five-piano and orchestral crash of “William
Tell.” An original and pleasantly-varied
entertainment by a clever co.
“Canary Cottage,” with its story of the
beautiful young man who is pursued by three
ladies, all singing his slow, sweet love song,
is still to be seen and heard at Sydney
Majesty’s, at the usual prices, plus tax.
The out-of-date sawmaker who got off the
gag about good wine needing no. bush (ho
reallv meant “push,” but his writing was so
bad that the old English printer made it
“bush”) was never press-agent, to a star or
advertising manager to a wine-making firm.
Ada Reeve is still available at Sydney Tivoli,
and-—though most people already know it—
the fact is written in letters of fire on the
night and in letters of ink on the morning
paper. Her famous name alone is printed
21 times, so that the reader whose memory-
gears are worn will never -make the mistake
of calling her Amy Ileeve or Ada Reed.
Nikola and Lucie Linda continue to be her
best supports, and the twangsome turn of
sleek Frank Macldey suggests a new simile-—-
"As noisy as a banjo turn.”
:I: * *
Anyone who wants to find out how P.M.G.
Webster might save money by utilising
prison cockroaches as mail-carriers should
see “The Honor System” at Sydney Royal.
The big film is in its second week there.
* * *
Matrimonial problems on Sydney screens
this week :—•
Crystal Palace: “The Foolish Virgin,” being an
object-lesson, by Clara Kimball .Young on How,
Whom, When and How Many to Marry.
Hoyt's: “The. Waiting Soul,” a film adaptation of
Marion Short's story about what a'married lady should
do when found out. On Saturday IT. B. Irving in
“The Lyons Mail” will be the star item.
Lyceum: “Wild Winship’s Widow,” in which a
gay old boy has the time of his life and is not
found out until after his death.
Peg O’Connell returned to a crowded
Melbourne King’s last Saturday, and the
effusive Irish heartiness of that spontaneous
young person, in
comparison with
the cold contemptu-
ousness of her
English blood-rela-
fio n s. was as
marked as ever.
Everything that
P e g ’ s idolised
father had ever de-
claimed 'agin the
hated Saxon when
he was travelling
around Erin in his
Sinn Fein cart
was more than jus-
tified by the utter
awfulness of the
Chichester family,
not to mention the
wooden - headed
English seducer
who begs the most
repellent Ethel on
record to bolt with
him. The Chiches-
ter family hadn’t
“CANARY COT-
TAGE,” at Sydney
Majesty’s.
Alfred Frith smiles.
abated one jot of its hatefulness since the
nrst time Peg slung jokes at it. The new
butler (Harford) was more like a graven
image than the previous one. and the new
unprincipled Christopher (Pearce) stood to
be snapped at with more than dog-like sub-
mission. He didn’t even pretend to deplore
his girl's bad opinion of him. Kay Souper
introduced a somewhat different sort of


r
&
0 o ORP EM & sON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
ft
DT
j
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
A NEW AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
FOR
INSULATING COLD-AIR CHAMBERS AND REFRIGERATORS.
COVERING BOILERS. HOT WATER AND ST EAM PIPES.
PACKING UNDER HEAVY MACHINERY, &c., &c.
HAIR FELT
MADE IN SHEETS, 34in. x 20in. x Jin. BALES EACH 50 SHEETS.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, SHIP CHANDLERS.
FULL PARTICULARS AND NAME OF NEAREST WHOLESALE HOUSE
Obtainable from MTCHAELIS, H ALLEN STEIN & CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
;?84 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE-
Wherever you go—driving, travelling, holiday-making—
take a rug with you. These are cold nights, and a good
rug may ward off chills and colds. A warm, serviceable
British Rug, full size, made of Merino Wool Mixture, in
reversible check designs of Green, Brown, Red and Grey,
is obtainable from us for 27/6.
Better qualities are quoted at 30/- and 35/-
An Australian-made Wool Rug at 21/- is another of our
early-bought qualities that is exceptional value in these
days of shortage in woollen goods.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES &
Men's
Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
lawyer, but the brown dawg and the thunder-
storm that makes Peg afraid to receive
flattery seemed _ just as before. Also the
D Ki ral Physical influence of the abomin-
able Obichesters on the delightful Miss
u oonnell was as improving as ever. Four
weeks of their contagious society sufficed to
turn ber toes out and give her a mannah
and a grace of movement. The environment
worked wonders. Her rich, warm heart
remained true to her broth of a father, but
her outward visible characteristics began to
take after her Chiehestrian mother, appar-
ently Anyhow, Peg was a new woman until
she thought she was going to leave the
premises and return to her father, and
then her toes turned in again, and her old
original slouch came back, and nobody in
the world save Jerry would have thought of
marrying her for anything more beautiful
than her money. Probably Jerrv married
leg tor her money. He was with her dear
uncle on his deathbed, he knew all about
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Billie Seaton.
Alf Grant telling an
Irish yarn.
her fortune, and it is hard for a young man
—especially if he’s English—to know of a
girl’s £5OOO a year without loving her for it.
sfc H- V
Concerning “Grumpy,” at Melbourne
Royal, it has been remarked that he makes
rhe same, or nearly the same, speech before
the curtain every night. One might as well
complain that he makes the same asthmati-
cal noise every night. The speech, as The
Bulletin hears it, is part of the perform-
ance. Why, in the sacred name of Mum-
mery, an actor should be expected to change
his words in front of the curtain while he is
repeating his other part for the 1111th time
is something that no politician can under-
stand. “Grumpy” continues to be the most
attractive show in town, and will go on being
attractive for weeks. Jarvis and the beaute-
ous grand-daughter are putting a little more
vivacity into their acting, but the young
lady needs a warning word on the subject
of her playfulness. In gaining confidence
she has acquired artificiality. She is
prettily affected, but she would be prettier
if she gave more time to the art of seeming
quite natural —the art in which Susan is
absolutely perfect until she is required to
burst into tears.
# * j!= *
“The Pink Lady” is said to be in her last
nights at Melbourne Majesty’s. They will
presumably be long last nights. The story
of the actress, the Baroness, the bogus
Satyr and the frisky chorus girls who want
to be satyrised some more is very bright
and tuneful musical comedy, and the people
love it well.
At Melbourne Princess’s the frank and
fearless inanity of “The Story of the
Rosary” appeals to the vast multitude that
takes foolishness seriously. This fairly
picturesque production is one way of keeping
the Allan YVilkie Co. employed, and if they
all recover from its effects without having
a funeral in the ranks it should sharpen their
appetite for more Shakspeare later on.
Paraphrasing the words of Grumpy, one may
say of Allan W. that after talking classic
literature to intelligent people for a good
many months he is now taking a holiday.
Off the chain. Dabbling in vulgar dissipa-
tion. Sitting down in a cellar to utter tripe
and onions. But the change doesn’t seem
to be agreeing with either of the principals.
As a tripe-utterer Wilkie looks unhappy,
whilst Miss Hunter-Watts is obviously in-
disposed to go suddenly dotty in a convent
priest’s garden as though she were Ophelia
at the Royal Court of Denmark. Probably
she is merely mad with the cruel author
who condemned her to thus go off her onion
whilst putting tripe into her mouth. The
comic-relief brigade—Dore, Miss Harvey
and Landor —are on a better wicket than
the rest of the forces, for they have a license
to frivol, and they needn’t feel sorry for
themselves unless they like. In fact, they
frivol very happily. Also the nightly bomb
S j secon d act with great gusto,
faH tlle e^eat enem >’ happens without
** * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the times have been
out of joint since Monday last week. Nellie
btewart was driven out of her commanding
position on the bill by a furious attack of
influenza, so the vaudeville section of the
co. spread itself over the whole ground.
Cecile Adair, who has a nice little voice
enough, was the only newcomer; but Willard
and Wilson introduced a new black-faced
sketch which almost served as backbone to
the programme. All going well with her
convalescence, the only Eleanor Stewart will
return to Act 2 of “Sweet Nell" this Satur-
day.
* * *
The Ideal Film Co. has raked the starry
sky of London for its cast of “The Second
Mrs. lanqueray,” screened by Hoyt’s in Mel-
bourne on Saturday. Sir George Alexander
fills the perfectly-creased clothes of Aubrey
Tanqueray, and is a geometrical diagram in
every profile. Miss Hilda Moore wears the
past of Paula like a new necklace; Miss
Marie Hemingway is a graceful Ellean ; and
Norman Forbes has evidently studied Cayley
Drummle at close quarters. Also several
other popular Londoners indulge in appro-
priate Pineroics when they catch the camera’s
. Hoyt's second attraction is Nance
O Neil in “The Iron Woman,” potted by the
Metro co. from Margaret Deland’s novel.
Nance appears as large as ever, and plays the
female Bismarck with a series of command-
ing gestures that any policeman op point
duty would be glad to borrow.
The big thing at Melbourne Majestic
this week is a Patagonian revolution, with
the irresistible Douglas Fairbanks in the
middle of it. To lovers of excitement the
film, which is called “The Americano,” is
next-best to living in Russia or being a mem-
ber of the Peacock Government. Our own
Sylvia Bremer has come all the way from
the U.S.A., wrapped up in nearly a mile of
comedy entitled “The Pinch-Hitter.” This
is a baseball yarn and Sylvia is the queen
of a pastry-shop who turns a country rube
into a hero of the game. Louise Fazenda
and Charlie Murray are foremost in the
Keystone joke, “Her Fame and Shame.”
” i’lie Quiet Family” and other old farces
are recalled by “Fair and Warmer,” which is
doing big business at Adelaide Royal. Daring
as some of the speeches and situations are, the
finished acting of Thomas Braidon and little
Miss Dorothy Purdell skims safely over the
thin ice. The old “Hansom Cab,” with its
Melbourne street scenes, is as popular as
ever at the Tivoli; R. H. Stephenson is a
fine Mother Guttersnipe, and the Cab itself
also acts well. The Majestic has given its
bill a needed help on the athletic side with
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
The artist missed
this real comedian.
Ray Traynor at the
piano.
Edinbury and the Klintos. At the King’s
“The Wavbacks” put in another week
before starting for a country round. Won-
dergraph shows Mary Pickford in a jolly
Dutch setting, the Town Hall pictures have
aroused the organ in that hall from its long
silence, and West’s has jumped into the
afternoon business, the advantages of hav-
ing a large family, as preached about in
“Where Are My Children,?” drawing two
“over-16” houses every day.
Adelaide has lost its chief hermit. He
lived on the Mount Lofty slopes, and made
it his pride never to enter a house or light
a fire. He always seemed to have sufficient
money to pay for all his simple wants, and
was a great reader and writer. In the end
rheumatism got to his heart, and he went
out at 75. Thirty-five of his winters had
been spent in the open.
Of a fine fellow :
Both young and strong; he has no wife,
No child to whom he owes his life;
He’s six feet in his boots, we’re told—
And every one of them is cold!
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Deadhead”: Cyril Maude chooses the
easy path when he produces plays like
Grumpy,’ that call for nothing but a dis-
play of mimetic power. It is comparatively
simple to reproduce the mannerisms of an
irascible old man. Cyril’s make-up is excel-
lent. of course, and he produces a perfectly
good, illusion ; but that sort of mimicry is the
legitimate sphere of the variety theatre. In
fact, there doesn’t seem to be any reason
why the star-actors shouldn’t go over in a
body to the variety stage. Drama, even
comedy, is supposed to present a conflict of
wills and emotions. For it, one needs some-
thing more than a spot-lit figure encased in a
plot he could poke his fingers through at any
moment.
“First Old Man” : The Age critic became
hysterical over the advent of Cyril Maude
and moaned that “to the younger generation
of playgoers in Australia the art of char-
acter-acting has been practically unknown.”
lhe S. M. Hekald lost no time in calling
this an “exaggerated statement,” character-
ised it as “ridiculous,” and finished up by
saying: “This sort of talk is nauseating to
people of commonsense.” But is “character-
acting” worth all this heat, after all? I
remember what another critic said on the
subject. He was quite as good at his job
as either the Age or the Hebald representa-
tive, and his name was Bernard Shaw. “A
character-actor,” said “G. 8.5.,” in the
Saturday Review, “is a technical term
denoting a clever stage performer who can-
not act and therefore makes an elaborate
study of disguises and stage tricks by which
acting can be grotesquely simulated.”
“0.K.”: “Stargazer’s” complaint that
“Grumpy” is “over-emphasised, overloaded
and too profuse,” and that thereby the
“story is robbed of significance,” strikes me
as being a careless statement of the facts of
the case. The story needs to be robbed of
its significance. It is equally conventional
and flimsy. If there were less Grumpy the
plot would be exposed to closer criticism,
and its absurdities would hurt. Apart from
the old man, whose funniness conceals his
own incredibility, the entertainment has no
interest—certainly no novel interest. Prac-
tically the plot grows out of the fact that
an old criminal lawyer, who has had 50
years’ training in suspicion, invites a young
man of whom he knows nothing—a spieler
or burglar of the Spider species—to come
and stay a few days at his country house,
where he will have carte blanche "to turn
the head of the host’s susceptible grand-
daughter, who complains incidentally that
she never sees any man except her old
Grumpy, although she casually admits to
being a persistent flirt. And the bad young
man travels with a valet who, in four days,
gets the resident Susan’s consent to marry
him when he has money enough. Susan’s
attempt to make this apparently genuine
admirer jealous provides the opportunity
for old-man Grumpy to change himself into
a decrepit Sherlock Holmes and carry the
plot to a conventional conclusion. Cyril
Maude’s job is to distract public attention
from the impossibility of the surrounding
circumstances. Yet “Stargazer” discusses
the play itself “as a work of art.” The
play is sheer nonsense from beginning to
end, save as a vehicle for the semi-farcical
name-character.
Melbourne Argus, seeing Charlie
Macmahon off, credits the brothers Mac
with the production of “Paul Jones,” and
the other comic operas in which Nellie
Stewart and Marion Burton appeared at
Melbourne Opera House (now the Tivoli)
27 years ago. But Charlie and Jim
Macmahon were only the lucky lessees of
the theatre, who participated in the success
of what was the speculation of George
Musgrove and Nellie Stewart. Musgrove
bad then only just dissolved partnership
with Williamson and Garner, so his ven-
ture at the rival house was disguised under
the name of the Nellie Stewart Co., the
Macmahons having previously secured the
lease on the strength of Musgrove’s readi-
ness to come in with a first-class show. J.
L ; Toole, who had been a mild frost under
Williamson and Garner, played a farewell
season at the Opera House after the Nellie
Stewart Co. had moved on, and this also
was understood to be Musgrove’s venture.
Subsequently the Macmahons struck out on
their own account with disastrous results.
Their productions of “Evangeline,” “The
County Fair” and “Hearts and Homes”
(wherein ex-pugilist J. L. Sullivan ap-
peared as a brawny working blacksmith in
patent-leather boots) were dire failures.
Years afterwards Charlie popped up again in
Melbourne with the first moving-photograph
apparatus that ever was in Australia. It
was of the peep-show order of entertainment
—you looked into the little kinetoscope and
saw tiny figures moving about in the picture.
Marvellous! Even the first awful phono-
graphic utterer of weird noises seemed not
more marvellous than the Macmahons’
kinetoscope.
Dear Bulletin, —I am compelled to cor-
rect “Fax,” who asserts (B. 21/6/Y7) that
Barry Lupino “faked up” the words of the
two. interpolated numbers, “This House
We've Come to Search” and “Three Bad
Boys,” which have been so well received in
“The White Chrysanthemum.” The words
were not “faked up” by anybody, as a mat-
ter of fact. They were carefully written,
along with several other lyrics for the pro-
duction. by your old contributor, Eardley
Turner.
.To Smith has booked Melbourne Audi-
torium for August 8, intending to then
produce a new play with the eo. that has
been travelling around with “Before the
Dawn” these last two years. The new play
is “The Reveille,” and deals with the war
in an Australian way. It is in three acts, the
one scene being laid in the kitchen of a
wheat-farm. The principal situation is un-
doubtedly strong, and Jo Smith has hopes of
getting theatrical managements interested.
Meanwhile he has not quite done with
“Before the Dawn,” which has served its
patriotic purpose admirably. Twenty per-
formances have yielded about £lOOO for war
funds, and there is more to follow. His trial
performance of “The Reveille” will be in aid
of the Mayoress’s Patriotic League.
“0.K.”: The latest revival of Nellie
Stewart has produced a fresh crop of guesses
at her age. They remind one of what old
Dick Stewart, her father, used to say on the
matter: “People are trying to persuade me
that Nellie was born before I met her
mother.” The fact is that the actress’s ex-
ceptionally well-preserved stage appearance
is surprising only to those old playgoers who
are unobservant. When Nellie was looking
just lovely in the first production of “Ma
Mie Rosette” “Daddy” Lohr said to me:
“She’ll look no older in 30 years time.”
That was in June, 1804; so Nellie has still
seven years to go before she will look any
older.
“Masetto”: Someone should take Leo and
Mischel Cherniavsky aside and tell them
kindly but very firmly to drop a few of their
mannerisms. At the Auditorium the other
evening Leo struck an attitude which in the
absence of his violin would have been the
correct position to receive an onslaught of
the late Les Darcy. As for Mischel, he fre-
quently startled me by adopting the style of
a jockey finishing a hard race. Imagination
could easily have pictured the young ’cellist
mounting his instrument and riding a
steeplechase over the footlights. Pianist Jan
deserves a hand for not indulging in antics,
and he should advise his brethren to seize
the opportunity when in Sydney to ask
Verbrugglien to illustrate how a reposeful
bearing is not incompatible with a warmth
of feeling.
“Peg-Leg” : In looking at the screen from
a pro.’s point of view, “Snell” fB. 28/6/Y7)
forgets that successful picture-players don’t
care a cuss for the opinions of even the most
distinguished of their stage brethren. Pic-
ture acting is a separate and distinct art,
developed by the people who are 6bw making
the big money out of it. The top-notchers,
including Pickford and Chaplin, were hardy
making a crust over the footlights before
they got into films; on the other hand, the
biggest screen frosts are draped icily around
the reputations of such stage successes as
Sarah Bernhardt, Forbes Robertson, Beer-
bolim Tree and Hawtrey. One man, one job ;
and these are two jobs, not one.
From London: —
Oscar Asche has struck a second gold-mine in
“Chu-Chu-Chow,” which is turning out even larger
dividends than “Kismet.” It has just reached its
300th performance—nine of them every week, and
thronged houses the rule. The opening of the fourth
century was celebrated by wedging ■in several new
attractions, among them a bewitching Oriental dmicer
named Dacia.
(Continued on page 26.)
WALKING BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hay seed was clinging in his hair,
Upon his coat were feathers.
I watched him as he munched his fare —
He’d been out in all weathers.
He was an actor, it appeared,
Who small success commanded,
And lately ill-luck so adhered
The company disbanded.
“We drifted down our several roads,”
So ran the sad confession;
“To beg enough at chance abodes
To feed a whole procession
Was quite impossible, of course,
And so we widely drifted.
I slept last night beside a horse—
I, Wallington the Gifted !
In actual want? I thank you, no—
Mv lunch was not a bad one.
The lesson of experience, though,
Is, sir, a very sad one.
Along my lonely way I tread
To find fresh people daily
Who all deny the artist bread
Yet feed the beggar gaily!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


LADIES!
There is nothing' more attractive
than a comely woman.
m t H*T make the COMELY WOMAN ARE:
sm*ctViKTn&
LAKSHMi
SKIN LOTION
muTtli tofru .
Has
igsgsaai*
x~.r'ev,v,
Kir ”** - c-.ii.™£*r,;rc:s
John Strange Winter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS make the COMELY WOMAN
New OU r r ace° a
Non-Oily), Carmine, Perspiration Powder ’nrv'sj °°' S (R,,y an<l
Ointment, and Creme Marquise ‘ P> sham Poo, Curative
are used by ROYALTY and were AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDALS
Obtainable from all Departmental Stores rivii J ,
ton H. Soul’s, Lassetter’s. Jones” Fkrmel , Wash in K -
Waters’ Horderns’. McCathie’s. McDowell and Hughe"’, l°c *' " T -
or Sil”dr^. f fCT thC tint >
Sydney Office: 32 Depot. 28-30 TamiTsonSt Rome) ’
381 C »‘"- 6 «“ t - «-«• ««« S,««mShlp Baii4iw, &£=
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly,
t arnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
l slier, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR.
"I suppose it upset you dreadfully that you
weren't named in your grandmother's
will."
"Oh, not a hit — I'm her lawyer, you know."
A Melbourne man back from Gallipoli
and the West Front brought an extraor-
dinary collection of curiosities in bullets —
bullets that have done their bit, and which
derive their interest from the strange shapes
they have taken. There is one that might
have been modelled by a cameo artist from a
head of old Henry Parkes. But human
heads are numerous. There are also ducks,
geese, puppies, a kangaroo, one rose, pinks
in profusion, and dozens of other familiar
things—frogs, apples, pears, grapes, a cup
and saucer, and one with the imprint of an
English shilling on its blunt nose.
“Pthis”: “Glen H.” (B. 14/6/T7) in his
comments on “The Three Twins” waxes sar-
castic about an imaginary play called “The
Belle of the Sanatorium, in which pale
voung men and nice-looking girls will dance
and warble ragtime while waiting tor
death.” Now, for the
last five years I’ve
been a consumptive
and an inmate of
several private sana-
toria, and if “Glen
II.” thinks a sana-
torium is a place of
gloom and death he’s
wrong. A proper
sanatorium, as the
name implies, is not
for incurables, but
for earlv cases with
a good chance of re-
covery. The disease
mostly attacks
people under 80 —
just the age to
enjoy life —so there
are frequent out-
breaks of dancing
and ragtime when
matron isn’t look-
ing. The young men
are not pale, either.
Being in the open
air day and night,
rain or shine, they
are generally quite
sunburnt, and with
good food, early
hours and plenty of
rest, after a couple
of months they often
weigh more and look
better than ever they
did before. The main
trouble matrons have
with patients is not
to keep their spirits
up. but to restrain
their exuberance and
teach them to live
the quiet life ordered
by the doctor. I’ve
seen some of the
hardest flirting and
roughest sky-larking
in sanatoria, and the
Belle of the Sana-
torinm is usually a fine healthy-looking girl
who never wants for beaux.
* * * ♦
General Birdwood, over in London lately,
gave Billjim a “reference” :
The records in France revealed the remarkable
and significant fact that no instance had occurred of
an Australian committing an offence against a
woman.
And every Billjim’s mother is entitled to
give her bonnet an extra bit of a tilt as she
thinks of what she did for the army.
* * * *
One lady prominent in the Melbourne
Thrift Campaign advises her sisters to take
a leaf out of Eve’s book. Not out of Eve’s
fashion-book, we hope—for two or three
months, anyway.
* * * *
“Rio”: The Defence Department refuses
to enlist Hubbard, the Tasmanian rifle-shot,
and many others like him, yet it allows them
to go on blazing away ammunition every
Saturday at the taxpayers’ expense. Every
penny spent on civilian rifle shoot-
ing at present is wasted, for the
riflemen either do not intend or
will not be allowed to fight. If
this money were expended on the
provision of proper bullet-proof
30yd.-ranges in the suburbs cadet
travelling could be almost done
away with, and the home-training
of both militia and cadets made
much more interesting than it is
at present. For the Government
to preach thrift and at the same
time liquidate the cost of Saturday
afternoon shooting by 80 or 00
thousand members of rifle clubs is sheer
farce.
“Chevron'’: If it be permissible to tabu-
late glory, here is the record to date of the
big Victorian Public Schools:—
c .
w q q p . fey 2
S oiooi O d S 9, ~
d o ; j % q p P A
C.E. Grammar .. 4 3 !) 24 2 4 sj
Scotch College ..3 1 ll) 17 1 2 1
Wesley College ..24 fi 6161
Geelong Grammar.. 1 3 12 1
Geelong College .. 3 4 3 1
One Wesley boy has also won the Meritorious
Service Medal.
* * * *
Curiosity of literature gravely presented
by a horny-handed working-woman seeking
scrubbing, washing and similar light employ
at St. Ivilda (Vic.) :
The bearer, Jane S . was my wife for over
ntteen 1 ears. I take plesher in recomendin her to
any one is wantin a servint, good, clean, hard work-
SIV, I' ~WaLTER S • P S.—She is also
From a furious Australian in England:
At a moment when Australia is selling England wool
and meat and wheat at prices we have never paid before
—when our food supplies are so low that personally
I haven’t seen a potato for a week —Archbishop
Wright of Sydney is appealing to this country for
“OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT.”
S HE: “Have you heard how Bertie heroically
captured a hundred Germans by him-
self?”
HE: “Yes, lots of times.”
SHE: “Who told you?”
H E: “Bertie.”
funds to enable him to erect a home for his “deacon-
esses.” The Rev. A Malley, of the Vicarage, Tren-
tham (Vic.), is on the same lay, but he is far more
modest than the Gaiters—or is it Alligators?—of
George-street. All Malley wants is a set of lantern-
slides illustrating Church of England history, and he
humbly hopes that his appeal will strike a responsive
chord in the heart of some kind-hearted Briton who
will either present him with the slides or let him
have them at “reduced cost.” One of the London
Church of England weeklies, the Record, gives prom-
inence to this abject appeal under the heading of “A
Request from Australia.” YVhat a grand advertise-
ment for Australia, and splendid encouragement to
emigrants to choose the Commonwealth ! Emulating
the humility of the late Uriah Heep, the Vicar of
Trentham says he has frequently “looked longingly”
over the catalogue of goods on sale at the Church
Army’s dep6t. in London, and wished he “had the
privilege of drawing upon its resources.” In other
words and in plain English, Trentham, Victoria,
Australia, is either too poor or too pagan to raise a
couple of pounds to enable its vicar to buy a set of
lantern-slides, so he comes with his hat to probably
the most distracted country on the face of the earth.
Have these men no shame?
“Kuscobin”: The Armour Laboratory of
Chicago, out of the by-products of the abat-
toir, is solving some of the most mysterious
problems of therapy. Brown-Sequard first
demonstrated the value of the thyroid gland
in the neck of a sheep for the treatment of
goitre, but its use here has been far tran-
scended by later research. For instance, the
thyroid extract has been proven to work sen-
sational cures in cases of cretinism or idiocy.
Six weeks after the administration of thy-
roid the puffed stomach abates, the blubbery
lat diminishes, the hair loses its roughness
and yellowy look, and ultimately a normal
child is evolved from the idiot that was. But
it is necessary that this thyroid treatment be
continued through life, otherwise there is a
relapse. Hence the slaughter-house becomes
indeed a House of Healing. At the base of
the brain in man and in all animals is a
gland, a small oval and reddish-grey organ
formerly supposed to be in some way associ-
ated with the functions of the nose. The
glandular fluid extracted here has a score of
healing uses. The pineal gland, too, found
inside the head of steers; the parathyroid
gland found embedded in protecting layers
of fat under the tongue of animals; the
thymus gland from the lower part of the
throat —all these play a great (in fact, a
sensational) part in the cure of human ills
that have hitherto baffled science. The last,
for instance, is present in young animals
of all kinds and disappears at maturity.
From it is prepared a substance that is
almost specific in the treatment of children
with rickets. There are many other by-
products whose use is still obscure ; others,
again, are still in the experimental stage.
But the fact is outstanding that the research
work now being done by Armours, and, I
understand, other American meat-packers, is
fraught with wonderful possibilities. So far
as my inquiries go in Maoriland, the subject
is as'little known to the freezing cos. as the
binomial theorem or the motif of a Bach’s
fugue. Surely here, with the huge dead-
stock export, is room for scientific research.
You can depend upon it that Armours are
not in the business from philanthropy or the
good of their health, and there must be a
financial side to it that would appeal to Fat
if properly presented.
That remarkable ease in which a N. S.
Wales North Coast man was officially posted
as a deserter, vice somebody else of the same
name, looks as though it may have turned a
somersault and then repeated itself in Mel-
bourne. This time it seems probable that
Governor-General Fairrguson, in the pre-
sence of an imposing crowd, has presented
the Royal Humane Society’s medal and cer-
tificate for saving life at sea to No. 107 Ser-
geant Reginald Mills, Ist Remount Unit,
instead of to No. 6558 Acting-Sergeant
Ronald Mills, 21st Reinforcements, 14th
Battalion. Four days before the presenta-
tion was made the mother of the sergeant of
the 14th suspected that Pearce’s Department
was on the wrong track, and went to the
military authorities about it. She produced
papers to prove that Signaller Frank Hyland
fell into the sea from the deck of a troopship
off the coast of West Africa, that her son
immediately dived and supported Hyland
until the arrival of Private H. R. Tuck-
field, and that Tuckfield kept both his ex-
hausted comrades afloat until aid arrived and
all three were saved. The officers of the
Defence Department, she says, treated her
very nicely, but thought it only a concidenee
in names. Moreover, the sergeant who got
the medal, as soon as he saw the particulars
of the rescue as detailed on the ’certificate,
fancied there must be something wrong, and
told the Department so; but as he, too, had,
it seemed, rescued a man, Pearce’s people let
it go at that. But State-Commandant Wil-
liams doesn’t feel comfortable about it and
is digging deeper into the mystery.
AND SHE THOUGHT THEY WERE
GETTING SO CONFIDENTIAL, TOO.
SHE ( deprecatingly ): “No, I couldn't see
anything in your poem—-and I really
think I’ve as much brains as the aver-
age person.”
HE (sadly): “Yes, that’s the trouble.”
D.F. ’: A “war widow” in my suburb has
set up housekeeping with a local shopkeeper.
A neighbor suggested to the lady that, as
there seemed to be no lawful cause or just
impediment, it would be better and remove
any occasion for scandal if they had a regu-
lar marriage. “Get married and lose mv
oOs. a week pension?” said the widow. “No
tear—l’ll chance the scandal.”
BEER AND SKITTLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Havmakers in Essex have resolved to strike
unless‘they get more beer. A letter from the Food
Ministry was read at a meeting of the Yorkshire
Farmers’ Union promising a supply of light harvest
beer. Mr. Francis Hughes has been nominated for
tlie Abercromby seat in the House of Commons. His
programme includes more beer for the workmen and
the restoration of racing.”— Cable.
The British workman’s spirit none can daunt;
He trembles not, he knows no bloomin’ fear
When Zeppelins threaten him. But what he wants
Is Beer.
In vain the wowser damns the drop of ale
That lends false beauty to a prospect drear ;
The thirsty son of toil could sink a pail
Of Beer.
No heed pays he to what the preacher saith.
Whose facts and figures crow like chanticleer.
No stern statistics shake his sturdy faith
In Beer.
What does he care that teams of Reehabites
In fields of rural labor yesteryear
Proved Booze a mocker? Still John Bull delights
In Beer.
What doth he care that filtered water's cheap
And liquor brewed from malt and hops is dear?
lie dreams all day, he babbles in his sleep,
Of Beer.
lie chants loud praises to the Flowing Bowl
And hugs the notion that it gives good cheer,
The while he dulls his wits and dopes his soul
With Beer.
Thus saith the wowser. I, who write in rhyme
And have for wine and women love sincere,
Have never yet evolved a verse sublime
From Beer.
Now, in the autumn of a mis-spent life,
My summer leaves all yellow turned and sere,
1 watch the workers wage ignoble strife
For Beer,
Arid shake my head. Brave fellows gone before,
Whose gay farewells were music in my ear,
Went forth to Win the War and gave up more
Than Beer.
Heigho! a sigh for them who fight and die —
The heroes at the Front; and then a sneer
For brothers left behind, whose battle-cry
Is “Beer” !
Yea, Beer and racing (Skittles, if I please
To use a phrase in vogue for many a year)—
Two mighty English words! The chief of these
Is Beer —-
More Beer.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Black
1816 pair.
PA'f POSTAGE
Next time you need
Riding: Boots try
“Wallaby’
Emperors
They are soft and light,
Strong and durable. Made
in Queensland from genuine
Wallaby hides, and fitted with
.comfortable elastic sides that
* will not perish or stretch
after a few weeks wear.
Send for a pair on approval.
PIKE BROTH ERS,
LIMITED
TOOWOOMBA.
BRISBANE.
TOWNSVILLE.
FRUIT LAXATIVE FOR MAMMA, DAD,
BABY, CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Better than calomel, oil or pills to
clean and regulate liver,
bowels and stomach.
Mother, daddy and the children can always
keep feeling fine by taking this delicious
fruit laxative as occasion demands. Nothing
else cleanses the stomach, liver and bowels
so thoroughly without griping.
You take a little at night, and in the
morning'all the foul, constipated waste, sour
bile and fermenting food delayed in the
bowels gently moves out of the system. When
ynn awaken all headache, indigestion, sour-
ness, foul taste, bad breath, fever and d!zzi-
noss are gone; your stomach is sweet, liver
and bowels clean, and you feel grand.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
family laxative. Everyone from grandpa to
baby can safely take it, and no one is ever
disappointed in its pleasant action. Millions
of mothers know that it is the ideal laxative
to give cross, sick, feverish children. Ask
your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”—Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs—which has directions
for babies, children of all ages, and for
grown-ups plainly on the bottle. Remember,
imitations are sometimes substituted, so look
and see that your bottle bears the namp of
California Fig Syrup Company. Hand hack
with contempt any other fig syrup. “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—is sold bv all
chemists in bottles of two sizes. Is. lid' and
Is.!)d. [T
C orpoi,al H ” : This is a letter that a
Bill Jim in the business found wrapped in a
pair of socks which were handed out some
days ago :—•
To a Soldier,—
socks St anrl h m e , t 0„ let you know who made the
comiL ami Vk T yo , u , a safe and s Peedy home-
vou if S it b , h ‘ l ii 1 , hav T e the Pleasure of seeing
r U /. ,*■ a]l possible. I am 17 years old, 5 feet
to ‘sav 68 and fair - 1 think this is a H I have
to saj. Hoping you will write to the address below
p.s.-xxxx Yours ’ •
Billjim, fed up of writing to perfect-stranger
appers fed up, in fact, of everything—
replied :
My Dear Miss
solder h° a vl S a l hk ' h , y ° U /° kinfJly knitted for a
sokiiei have adorned my feet now for several davs
i hey are very good socks. I thank vou for them’
HIT IT.
H E: “I’m hopelessly in love with you.”
SHE: “Yes! Quite hopelessly.”
should you be doing nothing, say, next Tuesday,
would you please sit down and knit another pair
same size as these, as they fit me to a T.
Yours sincerely, .
P.S.—I am 99 years of age ; 8 feet 5f inches high ;
complexion lavender. Hoping you will correspond.
Don’t forget the socks.
P.P.S. —Forgot to mention I am the battalion
hangman.
“8.H.”: Poor old wheat farmer! The vul-
tures have gathered round his wheat and his
mice and the small townships are bubbling
over with “business.” Our little place has
an “advantage” in possessing the most
devastated pile of wheat bar one in N. S.
W ales. Consequently, the influx of stackers,
fillers, sewers, rat-catchers and camp-
followers, including numer-
ous agitators, has forced the
baker, butcher, grocer and
publican to work overtime
at the cash register. In
Bung’s establishment every
bed is double-banked, bunks
are spread out in the bath-
room and on the billiard-
table, and Bung himself
slumbers on top of the grand
piano, with a copy of Rule
Britannia for a blanket.
And poor cocky looks ‘on in
a sort of dazed way ;
vaguely he realises
that, unless the Gov-
ernment comes to
the rescue, the whole
cost of this extraor-
dinary orgy is to
come off the cheque
he w’’ 1 ' get for the
wheal that was com-
mandeered from him
last season and the
season before. What
he’s going to do he
doesn’t know. All
he knows in dozens
of cases is that, the
mice having fol-
lowed the drill and
eaten the seed-
wheat, there will be
no crop for him
next year. The cities
haven’t begun to
realise yet the disas-
ter that is looming in the distance.
¥■ * * #
Good, honest Australian advt.: —
Found.—Armidale Road, Overcoat, left Nemingha
Hotel. Owner have same by leaving drinks for
Barney Hoban and Jack Ford.
“Trooper Bluegum”: Here’s the luck of
t e game. A section of Anzac cameliers got
right into the Turks’ trenches at Gaza and
stuck to them despite solid counter-attacks,
lerriers on their left had to withdraw, so
the Australians were “in the air.” xVbdu)
kept on attacking till sheer weight of num-
bers enabled him to fall on the last 13 sun-
downers and capture them. As the unlucky
bakers dozen were starting off as prisoners
on the first stage of the journey to Constan-
tinople, Billjim says quietly to his mate:
bay, Morgan, what about making a dash
El , Arish?” “Ri’buck,” says Morgan,
lhen let er rip.” In a second the adven-
turous pair had ducked past the guards,
leaped the parapet and with bullets flying
tmck and fast around them they did a Mara-
thon for our trenches, 600 yards distant. A
machine-gun opened on them, and snipers all
along the line got busy, but a quarter-mile
was covered in brilliant style, and still thev
edged the leaden hail. Home was now
only 100 yards oft’, and their cobbers rose in
the trenches to cheer them in. As they
lobbed over scathless they yelled frantically
for beer and a ticket in Tatt.’s. (P.S.
There u'ere five bullet-holes in Morgan's hat.)
Bad Australian ’ forwards a funeral:—
In some South American cities man goes to his last
long home in a tram-car, followed by a procession of
friends also in tramcars. In Asuncion they have a
specially constructed mortuary car, which looks like
a gloomy cross between a pagoda and a highly black-
leaded wedding-cake. The tramway carries more
mortgage than passenger, and the bare-footed em-
ployees are generally in a chronic state of strike,
varied occasionally by armed insurrection. It is
said that when .Tara started the last revolution about
two years ago he laid it on his rag-tag “army” to
inspect the funeral car when they devastated Asun-
cion. As a matter of fact the revolution fell to
pieces before it could break even an egg. An Asun-
cion funeral is worth seeing when the subject is one
of the ordinary folk. The bootless, hatless, calico-
clad and half-drunken crowd look more like a picnic
than a boneyard party, and the proud, not to sav
arrogant, expression on the faces of the immediate
relatives of the difunto simply beggars description.
The South American will spend his last centavo in
giving his departed friend or relative a good send-
off, even though he afterwards allows the remains to
be removed from its niche, to be consigned to the
general repository, where all cadavers whose rent is
not duly paid are quicklimed and covered up with
as little ostentation as may be. And his oration at
the graveside on the many virtues of the departed is
only surpassed by the scandalous tales he tells about
the deceased on his way back to his favorite cafe.
* * * *
“Trallwm” : One hardly expects cameos of
lomance in a debts court, but they happen
sometimes. One happened the other day. A
trader was suing a woman named (say)
Wishart for goods supplied for a shop, and
to avoid the fall-between-two-stools common
m suing married people, he embraced the
husband in the summons. The thing was
ordinary—woman owned to being her hus-
band’s wife; owned to getting the goods;
Wishart denied the debt in toto. (That, of
course, is nothing: perjury is common as red-
tape in suburban summary jurisdiction.) The
grocer said the weekly bill had been paid
sometimes by Mrs. Wishart, sometimes by
Mr. W ;shart. Orders had been given by
EXTREMES.
“Some of the things I’ve heard about you,
lately make me shiver.”
“Yes! And some of the things I’ve heard
about you lately make me damn well
boil.”
cither party, and sometimes by both to-
gether to his travellers. Everything pointed
to an easy verdict. Then Wishart went into
the box and upset everything. He admitted
to owning Mrs. Wishart, but denied ever
°*Bering or helping to order or pay for any
stuff; the shop was Mrs. Wishart’s spec.—he
was away at work earning good money all
day, and only gave her a hand in the shop
on b riday nights. The prosecuting lawyer
waded in with a few slurs on the witness’s
credibility. Had he ever been known as
Mitchell —sued for debt in that name in 1912?
ihis account had been opened to Mr. and
Mrs. Mitchell, first orders given thus, and
the name changed subsequently to Wishart.
1 his, too, Wishart denied: he had been
ip M.L. at the time mentioned in
IJI-, anyhow. Mrs. Wishart also denied
the Mitchell cognomen : she had noticed the
A MERE DETAIL.
DOCTOR: “Yes, sir; the case teas precisely similar to yours, and that was what we did.
And it was just simply a lovely operation.”
PATIENT : “And that patient, Doctor, did he recover?”
DOCTOR: “The patient? Let me see! Upon my soul, I forget!”
grocer’s traveller heading the dockets “Mit-
chell,” and had corrected him. “Quite
feasible,” said the J.P., “names not dissimi-
lar. Go on.” The case finished with the
items alleged to have been ordered by
Wishart being struck out and the case
against him dismissed. The Bench also
allowed him costs. Mrs. Wishart was
ordered to pay the balance of the account —-
about 9d. “Dull case,” I said to the ser-
geant after the court cleared. “Not so dull.”
he retorted. “For Wishart, anyhow. Did
y’see that red-headed chap at the back of
the court while the case w r as on?” “Yes,” I
said. The sergeant winked a cynical eye.
“That’s Mitchell!” he said.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The waste in Webster’s Post
Office would give a real business man night-
mare. Some time ago in a Sydney suburban
office I discovered an enormous dead stock
of stationery. It had been ordered and sup-
plied absolutely without regard to consump-
tion. In many instances there were as large
supplies of quarterly as of daily forms. Of
some varieties there were 10 to 20 years’
supply, and of one kind of form (in books)
an accurate count indicated sufficient on
hand for three centuries! (This reads like
a joke, but it’s cold fact.) Less than four
years old, these latter were already obsolete,
though, with alterations, still usable. Many
issues had become quite obsolete, and could
never be used. Afterwards I found the same
waste in every office I visited. As well as
checking the telegraph-messenger’s cash ad-
vance on the chance of finding it the price of
an icecream or so short, the travelling in-
spectors should periodically overhaul the
office supplies. Another foolishness that
wastes tons of paper annually is the issue
of only one size in forms. Thus the post-
master of a small place, handling a dozen
telegrams a week, makes his daily return on
th® same 32-line form as is used in a busy
office.
Dr. “Nil” in reply to Harrison Owen (B.
.1.4/G/’l7) :
I said that about 90 per cent, of prostitutes (in
Australia, of course) were “such from choice and
inclination—inborn sexual perversity.” Mr. Owen, in
his quotation, states that Langer makes out that 513
of 2000 “took to it” from “inclination.” That is 25
per cent., anyhow. But by “inclination” I did not
mean necessarily “sexual inclination.” I meant, and
mean, what I said, “inclination”—for gain, or any
other reason, as against “compulsion.” In Australia
there are hardly any circumstances which “drive” or
compel a woman to go on the streets. I claim
“drunkenness” and the 30 per cent, who "drifted
into it ’ after seduction as part of the number that
chose it of their own free will. My contention was
that here in Australia the women who “go wrong”
have every assistance to “go right” again and take
advantage of such assistance, unless they are naturally
inclined to continue in a loose life. That a propor-
tion should continue on the streets because they want
a “life of luxury” does not disprove my statement.
Neither does Lombroso. I admit that sexual perverts
are often sexually frigid ; I was not, however, refer-
ring to “desire,” but to the suggestion of Brieux’s
play that “seduction” is essentially a cause of
prostitution.
The '‘all practicable diligence” which a S.
Australian hotelkeeper has to show in keep-
ing strangers off his premises during un-
licensed hours is feeling sore from a recent
bump. In the case before the Court the
front door was open, and the visitors walked
in, pulled the latch behind them and sat in a
parlor. Tne defending lawyer argued that
every citizen, even a hotelkeeper, has a right
to fresh air, and that nobody can maintain
a sentry at every possible place of access:
and the P.M., though he admitted feeling
doubtful, dismissed the case.
A LEADER OF FASHION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We should be ashamed to be seen in a new coat.
*-<et us rearrange our ideas in such a way that to be
“be SSaS!"*£££?
she totters vaguely down the Block,
Her hat is all awry ;
Tts draggled feathers nod and rock—
„ 0n l ° dribbles in her eye.
Her hair is all about the place;
touch of powder mars her face —
She goes the pace.
„„„. ...
He '“’TltT- * T ° , T" ’
w , ~ 1 g /’ and sho ,
W ' to Tee d flnd
TT „ V , p lpf '. . ,
v n t , , 1 . n 01 1 ainp ’
Would "steal ’her gamp C Ul "’ P
. g ‘ p ’
She’s saved a lot of soap to-da v •
Her muff’s not- worth a song.
A female derelict, you say •
But you’re entirely wrong
She preaches thrift, and for the while
She is, in fact, from toe to tile
A bit of style!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


“SAMMY.”
"Waal, boys, guess there's room for me it, here somewherest"
(American troops landed in France on June 28.)


LasST* >4cck *n arti'sT, &
So^e r e r J^ r om irtsomryla, ,
vJ»S
a jjrvm
"rtte <governor Cjcneral arnged
a note asking
Him 1o |wm a
Cjoyef'M mcnT
3 'H*sfe 1o
+he Junta!
4.
Ajfer sorwe deity
occasioned b y a dispute
as’fe "Hie jjortljoiio
Treasurer—
9*
tile Mwtsfiy adjourned to
House to be sworn
He»teWC "H-fern
tVf* Book.
tWi. Martfla Washington (Minister o. £ -
Health an<* Diseases) thinks kissing tfe«
Book an wnsanitaty proceeding so she
b'evo out” a maiTchi.
Tne busy
rghTaway by
the ttelij&ious
Editor ("Minister
CounTer Lunch and
Wldfer round
lb Consent all
*
Hon Rancto\(?h Sed-forel
(m<iter jMmediktely
called. o|> for active serv.ee
all politicians.
B^
aoujrr
/factories ujer«
established Jj’or
Irvi garters
A imposed
on gjoom -
"• Pc. SleeftfooT: cVinratcTecs -,ory. IndfiVi* rr« &o r7
agfri -tile Cjovernmi'nT and acTVn* tYj
r«>Tr*iVfT oj. carToon “
** MovJ . said iWe Prime 'VlmliTer 1o -ttie
Cabinet, •> We will proceed To josflLy
■«ie confidence reposed in os
by ihe.
country
We Mill Clou)
Do someTHihg^.
~1?ie "Tariff
,5 ' Mere ttfe'BoiUsfm artVsT
out bed .
ANOTHER WIN-THE-WAR MINISTRY.


n P , Z^ NET f IC PendUpliCatin » Pa Per ensures perfect,
pe manent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
Sci S’X': z “ etic worts ’
.ngland. It s All-British, and economical in use. [2
SOMEWHERE NURSE FRANCES, V.A.D.. write of Clements Tonic.
rhe DroDneforq nf onp nf fU >.
‘^F^urse 0 fi™ing^hne S ' ir^Francp 1 '
testimony is of very great public value ” Nurse Frances he-f "1 yoUr .,? ements Tonic there. l' m sure he,
pleased lam with your Tonic as a nerve restorer I have used a™ uV ® hould like to tell you how very
F, " ce h ~ iiso 1 «■> —» "-vz"S s ns
( Signed )
( c/i ua/u ) 'f f erf.
It is invaluable fnr . nw
net Clements Tonic and get good health at the same time. It • • _ • '~ r * • ° -
a™,™, toni.. ud„ NS .„. A " '' hem ' sts and stor « sell it everywhere!* u and Loss of Sleep.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
ITEMS
TAKING COVER.
PEGGY: “Dad! What do yon think Freddie
has done? Oh, lam so proud of him!"
DAD: “Ah, the young bounder has enlisted
at last, has he?”
P EGGY: “Well—er—no, Dad—he—he's pro-
posed to me.”
Francis Alexander Newdigate-JNeWdegate,
the Speck’s new expensive Superfluity, has
arrived. He is. 55, and the eldest son of a
late colonel of the Coldstream Guards. His
fim wife was daughter of Field-Marshal
Woodford; his present lady is Elizabeth
Sophia Lucia, fifth daughter of the third
Baron Bagot. Dad’s name was spelt with
an i; the son added two e’s in 1902 in accord-
ance with the will of the Right Hon. C. N.
Newdegate. He was in the Coldstream
Guards for a couple of years, has been a
member of the Commons and an alderman,
and has a house in Grosvenor-place, two
daughters and a place at Nuneaton. He is
quite respectable. But at a time like the
present his job isn’t.
In the old coaching days the road from
Melbourne to Sale ivas notoriously bad, par-
ticularly at Brandy Creek. Once the
vehicle was bogged there when Judge Bin-
don was on board. After getting the
coach out with
difficulty the driver
asked the Judge to
use his influence
with the Govern-
ment to have the
track improved.
The Judge pro-
mised that he would
do what he could,
whereupon the
driver made bold to
hope that the re-
quest wouldn’t be
forgotten. In the
next few miles the
coach was twice
overturned. On the
second occasion his
Honor approached
Jehu. “Look here,
my man,” he said,
“you needn’t upset
the coach again. I
won’t forget!”
HARPER, Chief
Electrical Engineer,
Melbourne City
Council.
F. E. Winchcombe, N. S. Wales M.L.C.,
who died at Bombay the other day from
exposure following the mining of the Mon-
golia, was born 62 years ago in Victoria,
where his father was the first Goldfields
Commissioner. After some years at the
school at Christ Church, Sydney, which T.
S. Mort built and endowed, young
Winchcombe went into Mort’s office and
eventually became the firm’s woolbuyer.
After Mort’s death Winchcombe struck out
on his own with a couple of old school-
mates. and founded the Winchcombe Carson
concern. Two sons are in khaki, and a
daughter is married to T. R. Bavin, the
Sydney barrister who recently succeeded
C. G. Wade as member for the" Ma State’s
most tony electorate of Gordon.
Concerning a man who added several
storeys to a success:—
R. S. Gillett, general manager of Anthony Horderns’,
who died last week—much too soon: he was only 52
—laughed to scorn the old adage that any fool can
buy. Gillett, though he did not, of course, despise
salesmanship, climbed up to the top of his own high
ladder very largely on his genius as a buyer. But
that was not all there was in Gillett’s remarkable
make-up. He laughed to scorn another common-
place—that the business-man mustn’t be a
“dreamer.” Gillett was full of imagination; and he
didn t believe that a man could do big things in
business or anywhere else unless he had it—which
explains why the Anthony Hordern art gallery was
his dearest child. This east of mind made it quite
impossible for him to regard the assistants in the
huge business as mere pieces of machinery; they
were all human and he was always trying to bring
out latent qualities in them. And because he had
sympathetic principals the result of it all has been
that Horderns’ service is almost good enough to pass
the I.W.W. Anyhow, when a (probably mythical) list
of places that were to be spared was furtively
shown around a while ago, Horderns’ was at the
top of it.
At 76 A. W. Pain, who has worn Anglican
gaiters in Gippsland since 1902, retires from
bishing to settle down as unpaid secretary
of a missionary society in Sydney. He used
to expound the Word at Cobbittv and Dar-
linghurst, in N. S. Wales. Then, in 1902
when outlying districts were cut off from
Melbourne diocese and formed into three
new sees the mostly “low” Anglicans of
Gipnsland elected Pain, who was then a
canon of Sydney Cathedral, to become tlieir
mst bishop, with headquarters at Sale A
few years back, when “lows” and “highs”
Hen” S f P r« npins J> v « r ,‘the alleged “persecu-
tion of C anon Nash by Archgaiters Clarke,
of Melbourne, Pain gave the archgaiters a
kick in the shins by inviting Nash to Gipps-
land and making him an archdeacon. That
didn’t last long; but the two prelates
haven’t been very cordial ever since, and
probably “H. L. Melbourne” won’t abso-
lutely refuse to be comforted over “A. W.
Gippsland’s” departure.
Charles Marter, who died in Sydney last
week, was a Maorilander. In the long ago
he started out to be an actor (he was with
the Wilmots as a youth), but soon after-
wards picked up a job as shipping reporter
on the Wellington Times. The rest of the
journey was along the Inky Way, and at the
end he had been sub-editor of the Telegraph
for a dozen years. xA singularly tempera-
mental man, Marter had by ill-luck got
tangled up in just that part of the machine
Of journalism which he should have avoided
like poison, for in the sub’s chair there are
physical and mental tribulations which only
the rarest men meet with equanimity. Ver-
satile and very competent pressman though
he was, Marter was not one of these. His
nerves were always on edge. As a “story”
writer and in the field of descriptive jour-
nalism he had few equals on the Australian
press; and when “Arawa” wrote of Rugby
football, he held the attention of even the
uninitiated. He was an eager, simple soul,
whose sympathies were all with the under-
dog, and his passing is genuinely mourned
by every man of the craft who knew him
during his long and honorable connection
with newspapers in the windy islands and
the Commonwealth. The finish came at 52.
Chia, the smart young Chowstocrat whose
romance with Unie Russell in Melbourne had
so tragic a finish, is now quite restored to
favor in the Flowery Land. Chia, senior, is
Supreme Judge (Chinese) at Hong Kong.
Australian visitors lately ran up against
the son at a tremendous function there, and
found him resplendent in rainbow robes of
Oriental magnificence, and holding an im-
portant office at the local university. His
maternal relations run to gorgeous palaces.
From an old Westralian, apropos Bigjohn
Forrest’s disclaimer of the popular story
that he passed over Coolgardie before gold
was discovered:—
The alleged expedition was in 1865. In that year
John Forrest was 18 and a pupil of the late Thomas
Campbell Carey, then Government land surveyor
stationed at Bunburv (W.A.). Forrest started on
his first exploring expedition in 1869. The expedi-
tion which first traversed the Coolgardie-Kalgoorlie
district was that led by the late Henry Maxwell
Lefroy in 186.3 (he died in 1879). On June 14,
1863, he camped in the neighborhood of the present
Gt. Boulder mine, after having discovered and
named Mt. Burges. He was forced to return from
that point in all haste, as his horses had been 72
hours without water and were done. (There were
no camels in W.A. then.) Had his report, which
was submitted to the Government on his return, been
acted upon with vigor, there can be no doubt that
the Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie goldfields would have
been opened in the ’sixties and Westralia to-day
would be so highly developed that she might well be
WISE, GEORGE HENRY, M.H.R. for
Gippslnnd, who, as chairman of the Vic.
Recruiting Committee, has been trying to
make the voluntary enlistment plan look as
little foolish as possible.
the premier State. The second in command of the
expedition was the late Edward Robinson (for some
years an M.L.C.), then a young man of 19, who sur-
IwL Unt H F f m,ary ’ 1913 ‘ The was
fw n d A® -° u hC , Private entel T>rise of the
York (W.A.) Agricultural Society, some of the
settlers and the leader.
Perth has a Khaki Women’s Corps “to
help recruiting.” The wife of “Mulga” Tay-
lor, M.L.A., is leader, with the rank of
Major, and Madge Cort Bevan, a former
Labor organiser, is secretary. They wear
semi-military khaki uniforms and a deter-
mined expression.
"BRIS."
“W.F.”: Clad in the dungaree garb of
Billjim, Dr. Brissenden, wittiest member of
the N. S. Wales Bar, now promoted to be
signalling-corporal, used to strut the boat-
deck with his flags and signal to distant
clouds and wavelets. With all on board lit'
was popular. Witty sayings simply danced
from him. Whenever “Old Bris” happened
to be talking it wasn't long before there was
a ring round him, all mouths set ready to
laugh. He is an object-lesson to all who are
still at home in security. He is happy.
Are they?
Talk about coincidence ! When the cables
were telling of Australia's share in the cap-
ture of Bapaume, one message gave a list of
lads who had been buried in an explosion
arranged by Fritz for that very purpose.
Among the names a North Brunswick (Vic.)
woman was shocked to see that of Private
W. Sturrock, aged 19. That was her own
lad’s rank, name and age, and she hardly
dared believe the Defence Department’s
assurance that he was still safe. But the
really astounding part of the story was only
made known when her son wrote to her on
April 5, detailing how his battalion of
Pioneers had had the duty of clearing away
the debris of the explosion in order to
recover the bodies of the victims and give
them more kindly interment. Under 10ft.
of earth five dead were found, and one of
them was the other Private Sturrock, also
aged 19.
In the Vic. Leg. Council last week mem-
bers spoke of the “brave manner” in which
their late brother Beckett had faced death
when it became known that he suffered from
a fatal disease. At a time when so many
younger fellows are facing death in a matter-
of-fact way it seemed hardly necessary to
make a song about the heroism of an elderlv
Legislative Councillor who had died in his
bed. For that matter, all the world is won-
drously lacking in a sense of proportion.
Look at the quantity of ink that was spilt
on the sad fate of Les Darcv! He was a
boxer and he died young. Had he been a
soldier he might have died younger.
George Webb’s painting of the late Chief
Justice Way did not quite please the old S.
Aus. judge, who made plans to be painted
bj an Lnglish R.A. when he could find
time; so he got the Adelaide Art Gallery
Jt lims 1 i ms waited so long that the
local lawyers have now subscribed to buv
ebb s picture, and presented it to the
Supreme Court which alreadv possesses a
IS™ w % om the Rame brush—the
veterans Way Boucaut and Bundev side bv
side on the Bench after 30 years’ service
as colleagues—with the present Judge
Buchanan in the foreground as Master.
r ; ast September I wrote of
motion o r 5t ai f°r ) Viart and quick pro-
wonndorT IS ! R show that he has been
«eneS Tn vKk n and is now b rig.-
”® eia , l ;, Ia 1915 he was captain. He is a
son of the late Leon C. C. de Wiart a Cairo
thrpp Ste fu : "’ USt P> ~ lias lost a hand, and won
three other wounds, a D. 5.0.. a VC and
several mentions.” anrl
JOE SHIRKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Joe Shirker he reckons if .Toffre had gone
Just after the Marne an’ a-kep’ pushin’ on
Instead of a-stoppin’ down there on the Aisne
He’d soon ha’ got Fritz back in Prussia again;
Joe Shirker he said:
“Why, a man as was dead
Could see it was simply a matter of ‘go it’ —
Just get to your row like a workman and hoe it;
But meddlin’ an’ muddlin’,
An’ fiddlin’ and fuddlin’
Wuz cripplin’ the Allies an’ ‘poilin’ the game.
But Britain in war-time wuz alius the same.”
Joe Shirker wuz certain as Roberts an’ French
Could never see more ’n the end of a trench;
An’ Nich’las the Russian who made the big drive
Could ha’ taken Berlin if he'd been half alive.
“Why, hang it,” says Joe,
“The feller’s too slow
To catch up with a hearse, let alone with a foeman I
He orter get gunning and then let her go, man;
But Russia’s reposin’
An’ dreamin’ an’ dozin’
An’ them who’s her bosses they smother her losses
By coverin’ their bosoms with orders an’ crosses.”
Joe Shirker he says as he’s wastin’ no breath
On Dagoes an’ sich, for they tire him to death;
Fer now they’ve been fightin’ a couple o’ years
They’ve nothin’ to show fer their blood an’ their
tears.
“Why, hang it,” sez he,
“This derned Italee
Is hidin’ three parts o’ the year in the snow
An’ poundin’ the rocks, ’stead o’ punchin’ the foe,
Afraid fer to tackle
A bloomin’ ramshackle
Ole Empire where murder an’ strife never ceases,
That only wants shakin’ to tumble to pieces.”
Joe Shirker he’s rough on old Wilson the Yankee,
With his Notes an’ his talk an’ his long hanky-panky.
Wot good is this treatin’ an’ blanky palaver ?
Wot’s wanted is bay’nets—a million at Havre!
“Why, dern me old boot,
This Woodrow’s 'a coot,
A cove that’s afraid that the Kaiser will take him!
I’d shock him an’ shake him an’ rock him an’ rake
him;
It’s time as Old Sam
Woke up with a dam’
An’ showed he could play a man’s part as he should,
An’ wipe out them insults in torrents o’ blood.”
Joe Shirker he says that if things get no better
He’s thinkin’ o’ writin’ the papers a letter,
Exposin’ these leaders as marrowless blighters
Not worthy o’ mention as genooin’ fighters;
An’, further, he swears,
An’, moreover, declares,
If Booty will call, though he's up on the shelf,
He’ll soon lend a hand (at the callin’) himself;
For them as should go
Are lyin’ so low
A ow’d think they wuz buried in coffins o’ lead.
But if Joe gets a-callin’, he'll waken the Dead!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


'
|§§||
lilllll
s
*
liMIl
■MI
111111
HHi
OP
■■■Ml
" w 1
llltwilll
■
■°v
* •A
Wm
■
j&
*<£*% 'wmL
*rv
■■l
it
/U/^t
m
Wmmm
. us r
"**B
H
***
wm
yAAM
;•>■
.
■i
■■
H
Mi
■
■
■
M
■
m
m
CC* • <■', jm - *i as* tmt
L " ..#- V ' \
■i
H
SH
»!»l*
ill
■
■I-' 1 .
■1
li&.
Ml
mi
Ajf
■€.
'M
W * ' v ■
Mi
■
m
s=^
fM*i
■
4 »S^
,%*.v f r /
A- . ' J...&
m
m
, •??/c- «
H-is
■
Mi
•<-
\ ;-|
**S „*«
i m*
*»' *y
J& S£ > >
i % j
■ •■?
' V *' A ■''■?
Wt<.;
'O' f v s-^v-... <
Vi •- igj* A*f
14 w f
K&i*' -4
✓ I'"' • '
Li'#
<V.-'
i 4&. S
* 4
VR-ySl^
£3. V
'■V.-
# 'SSB
K
JJf ; .
- •s>£
1> *X^r-
jg&?
i
-UV‘ -
■■ •«<
: v .**
-w>», '■*&)
i*
<>
. o£
~ f
1
&
1
Wl
A"W
S*.
/
NV
\ '
\s.
V
Presuming no other inducement offered, the
exceptional merit of Vicars all-Australian Wool
MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS would win the
approval and choice of all men who look for
QUALITY FIRST in the fabric of their suits.
Patriotism should also dictate a preference for this product of Australia’s growth of
wool and workmen skilled, which offers here in widely varied weaves and textures all
in keeping with the needs and tastes of Town and Country men, and Fashion’s call.
Austral Sac Suits to Measure, of Marrickville Tweeds,
85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-
Country Customers send for Patterns. Carriage is paid on all Country Orders.
mu
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484 to 490 George Street, 3-17 Royal Arcade,
New Branch Shop at 304 George Street,
SYDNEY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:—
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, AXTIMOMAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of- 7
SILICI £V,I «? RES '
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (Hiuh grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZING UROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
Thß «* Oua/ity t»rou gh out tUO '
the Empire.
Gelatine Dvnamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co Ltd
MINE OWNERS, iron 8 STEEL MASTERS. ' ’
Manufacturers
Structural Sta,, Sulphate of Arnrnotiia°etc
— —-=i=
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand:—
, —Dividend.--,
74 p.c.pref. Written
March, Profits. 10 p.c. old. On'. Reserves.
1907. . £303,881 £87,500 £16,000 £281,675
1908.. 329,923 87,500 20,000 504,098
8J p.c. pref.
124 p.e. ord.
1909.. 328,151 106,250 15,000 710,999
1910.. 274,386 106,250 15,000 864,135
10 p.c. pref.
15 i.c. ord.
1911.. 315,270 125,000 20,000 1,034,405
1912.. 356,153 125,000 25,000 1,240,588
1913.. 342,530 125,000 40,000 1,418,118
1914.. 348,490 125,000 40,000 1,601,608
Premiums oil new shares, £365,536 1,967,144
“A” pref. “B” Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. lup.c. 15p.c.
1915.. 369,486 229,460 50,000 2,057,170
Premiums on new shares, £12,141 2,069,311
1916.. 335.801 236.507 50.000 2,118.605
1917.. 415,490 237,500 50,000 2,246,595
There is the disaster of war for you ! Do
you wonder that the anti-conscriptionist gets
very angry? But the conscriptionist really
ought to be angrier; for people who stay at
home and get rich out of war are his deadli-
est enemies and the anti-conscriptionists’
best friends. That any institut.on, and
especially any institution partly owned by
the State, should make such a profit—a pro-
fit so much in excess of the normal —and
make it unquestionably out of the war, is
disgraceful, and nothing else. And it is not
merely the profit that this bank is making
that in the circumstances is disgraceful. It
is the profit which it plainly shows that other
people are making. Look at the gross
figures (profits, that is, “after payment
of and provision for all interest due
and accrued on deposits, provision for
bad and doubtful debts, and for the
annual donation to the Provident Fund”) :
1914, £714,076; 1915, £755,240; 1916,
£801,337; 1917, £964,911. So the gross pro-
fits, after paying interest, are more than a
quarter-million in excess of what they were
in the year prior to the war. And all that
the State gets in the way of rates and taxes
in excess of the bank’s 1914 contribution is
£136,785. Now a bank doesn’t take from its
customers more than it thinks they can
afford. If they are doing well, it isn’t long
before it finds a way of getting a cut. That
is what is happening now. This bank made
last year a gross profit of a quarter of a
million more than it made in the year before
the war simply because it knew that its cus-
tomers were making millions more.
It is time we got down to the hard facts
of the situation. How absurd it is to put it
to the little man and woman that they ought
to save up their sixpences a-nd invest the
money in war loans —that they ought to pare
down their domestic purchases to a minimum
so that they may the better give their coun-
try a lift in its dark hour of peril—when
there is this determined rush after profits by
the hundred-thousand throughout the coun-
try! We have heard a lot about slackers.
They are the men who won’t help their coun-
try by going to the Front. But are there
none worse than slackers? What about the
man who extracts such profits that the cost
of living is forced up? He not only does
nothing to help his country, but actuallv
does something to injure it: he makes ail
services rendered to the State expensive
(thereby diminishing its capacity to see the
thing through), and he also makes it very
difficult for some men to enlist. We have
piffled with price-regulation boards, and so
on. They have done, on the whole, as much
harm as good. At the best, they are miser-
ably ineffective. Nothing will be so effective
as a thorough arousing of the conscience of
the commercial and financial sections of the
people. L T ntil it is regarded as prima facie
disgraceful to make a greater profit now than
before the war we can never be said to be
taking the war seriously; and so long as the
State permits some men to stay at home and
get fat out of the national disaster which is
calling thousands of other men to their
death, so long does it neglect almost its first
duty—a duty it owes to every man in the
field.
The balance-sheet figures of the B.N Z
show how the country is booming on the'war
profits, it is extracting from poor old J. Bull
and his Allies and on the vast amount of
paper money it is printing (the issue of war
loans has the same effect as the issue of
paper money):— „„„„
1914 3 916. 19X7.
Notes in circula-
tion .. .. £989,882 £1,862,823 £2,060,32a
Bids in circula-
tion, etc. .. 1,403.457 1,767,410 2,00/,968
Deposits • ■ 18.070,613 23,556,677 29,052,791
Liquid assets .. 12,590,187 39,431,080 22,082,870
Advances . . 11,360.486 11,844,767 15,746.485
Premises . . 449,577 441,867 450,813
It looks beautiful, that increase of deposits
from £18,010,613 to £20.052,791 since the
war started ; but what does it mean ? Look
over the other side and see. Of the 11
millions of new deposits millions are re-
presented by what are. called liquid assets.
But of that 91 millions 0£ millions are
“money at call and short notice, Government
securities and other securities in London,'"
and there are other similar items: not wealth
at all, but merely the people’s promises to
pay in the future out of present accumula-
tions or future earnings. Advances have in-
creased by less than 4£ millions; and pro-
bably the security in many instances is more
of the public’s lOU. So the increase in
banking figures of late may mean and gener-
ally indeed does mean only this: that a com-
paratively few r people have got hold of the
people’s promise to pay them something in
the future. If the public which gives its
promise to pay is getting value for its p.n.,
well and good. The loan may be even a
profitable speculation; that is to say, if it is
invested in something that is wealth-produc-
ing, it may itself earn more than the in-
terest. In this case there are no wealth-
producing assets. The public has to earn all
the interest.
“Yes,” the man who doesn’t want to face
facts says, “but, after all, the community is
merely lending to itself and will only have to
pay itself, so that the debt will be no bur-
den.” This is grossly misleading.. It hides
the real trouble, just as the censorship hid
it from us in the earlier days of the war.
Maoriland is borrowing very largely from J.
Bull. That debt and the interest on that
shameful debt it will have to pay in the
shape of meat, wool, etc. For the rest, M.L.
has certainly undertaken to pay the money
to certain Maorilanders. But all Maoriland
has undertaken to pay it to a very few
Maorilanders. McPherson lends the State a
million. Say the million is all spent in
M.L. —though it very rarely is. Up go
wages, up go prices. In three months who
has that million? Smith and Jones and
Brown, who got an extra shilling a day?
Scarcely a bean of it! A few traders, some
bankers—these people whose profits are so
swollen. They have the million ; McPherson
has the IOU; the general taxpayer (includ-
ing the returned soldier) has to pay the in-
terest, and eventually the principal, and
because he will be none the better off for the
war-expenditure (financially better off, of
course), he is going to find the burden heavy,
and in consequence there are grim, grey days
ahead. And the grimness and greyness is
going to be just in proportion to two things:
(1) how closely we watch outgoings, so that
not a penny is wasted; (2) how far we
succeed in preventing the borrowed millions
getting into a few hands, while the liability
for principal and interest remains with the
multitude.
* * * *
W. E. Smith, Ltd., formed to take over an
old-established printing and stationery busi-
ness _in Sydney as from October, 1910 (the
deficit to start with represented goodwill
and preliminary exes.) :
AVritten
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
AP f r., 1911 ..£3947 10 p.e. = £3408 £18,529
Oct., 3911 .. 5354 10 „ „ 3408 £677 17 260
Apr., 1912 .. 5122 4 „ „ 1500 702 14 340
Oct., 1912 .. 4382 7 „ „ 2625 717 13 300
Apr., 1913 .. 3867 3 ” ” 1125 747 11 305
Oct., 1913 .. 3182 3 „ „ 1125 1017 10 965
Apr.. 1914 . . 2268 Nil r 236 9 533
Loss. ’
Oct., 1914 .. 98 Nil 1238 10,569
£30.000 of capital written off.
Assets written down, £19,431.
Profit. RpciPT-ves
Apr., 1915 .. 1656 Nil 597 1 , q
Oct., 1915.. 2066 Nil
Oct'’ 1916“ fona f p - c -= 1125 537 3,216
Anf 1917 ‘ ‘ 0070 \ » » 1125 549 4,746
Apl., 1917 .. 2573 5 „ „ H 25 455 6,039
See what has been done in the two years
since, with a new Board, the assets were
£75?000\°£4o!000 C :- ita ' Writ ‘“ dowo trom
t • 1915. 1917
Assets-— eS " ’• £23 ’ 669 £21,742
Stock •• •• 32.155 45 sa?
Book debts .. 14.255 jo’P?
Premises and plant 15.173 1.5’497
Cash and sundries 8,214 2 '035
Nothing startling about it; still there is
£l7OO of° ( b° t S Ym ng ’ an<l at the cost of
£l3 700 eb ii and £6200 of c^h
£lo <OO has been added to the stock. No
ddlibt a lot of this stock has been bought at
big prices, and there may be a slump before
it is realised; but appearances don’t po : nt
that way. In England a committee controls
paper shipments; and it is putting the brake
on harder and harder. For a while it looked
as though, even with the trade from the
U.S.A. disturbed, Australia might draw on
Japan, which has made astonishing progress
in paper manufacture in the last three
years; but Japanese shipping is now also
wanted for other purposes. So paper stocks
seem to be still very good stocks. Apart,
from the original overloading of the co. with
capital. £17,000 of which was represented by
goodwill, the trouble here was management.
AV. E. Smith had played a lone hand in this
business, and when he went out he practi-
cally took the business with him. Gradually,
however, through the efforts of one or two
men who saw possibilities in it, the concern
was made fairly shipshape: hence things may
be all right now, though much of the work
this co. does is done also by small offices
which are not subject to the same restric-
tions, and that means keen competition.
But. this applies to only part of the business.
« * * *
H. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants,
etc. (Sydney) :
, Dividends. ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. lOp.e. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., ’lO.. 8,873 2000 7 p.c.= 2029 4,844 38,040
Sept., ’10..10.248 8000 14 „ „ 4088 36.200
Mar., ’11..16,437 2000 10 „ „ 2899 11,538 47,738
Deferred Ordinary dividend. .8117 39,621
Sept., ’ll.. 16,857 2000 10 p e.= 2899 11,958 51,579
Mar., ’12..12.910 2000 10 „ „ 2899 8,011 59,590
f Deferred Ordinary div. 7176 52,414
Sept., ’l2 -i /—Ail Shares.—^
L 14,409 10 p.c.= 4899 9,510 61,924
Premiums on new shares .. 252 62,176
Mar., ’13.. 13,577 10 p.c.= 6500 7,077 69.253
Sept., ’l3. .11,369 Nil 11,369 80,622
Mar., ’14.. 6,594 Nil 6,594 87,216
Sept., ’14.. 7,737 Nil 7,737 94.953
Mar., ’15.. 9,026 Nil 9,026 103,979
Sept., ’15.. 4,744 Nil 4,744 108,723
Mar., ’16.. 9,044 10 p.e.= 6500 2,544 111,267
Written off, £543 110,724
Sept.,’l6., 6,974 10 p.c.= 6500 474 111,198
Mar., ’17.. 4,427 10 „ „ 6500 109,125
“As you will see,” the directors tell the
shareholders, “there has been a falling off in
sales, which is owing to the curtailment of
building operations during war-time. As,
however, the depreciation in trade is not
likely to continue, the directors have confi-
dence in recommending the payment of a
dividend at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.” The
depreciation in the building-trade not likely
to continue! Surely even such a hearty
optimist as A. J. Brierley, chairman of this
co., would be hard put to it to support that
view of the future. The statistics of the
brick industry in N. S. Wales give a very
good history of the effect of borrowing booms
on the building trade. For three years from
1887 onwards Australia was having a
gorgeous time. Then people began to w r onder;
then they left off wondering to consider their
debts. And look at the story of bricks made
during that changeable period :—•
1887 .. 243,831,000 1891 .. 184,862,000
1888 .. 214,199,000 1892 .. 115,293,000
1889 .. 219,795,000 1893 .. 105 442 000
1890 .. 187,769,000 1894 .. 92,113’000
It doesn’t seem to give any support at all to
Mr. Brierley’s speculation that there will be
no shrinkage in the building boom when the
loans cease and the bill has to be paid.
McKenzie’s have at least had the courage
to back their optimism; and there was a
time when their debts were very heavy :
Sept., 1911.. £38,768 Sept., 1914.. £96,918
Mar., 1912.. 46,796 Mar., 1915.. 103 787
Sept., 1912.. 72,276 Sept., 1915.. 65,188
Mar., 1913.. 55,836 Mar., 1916.. 53,482
Sept., 1913.. 70,958 Sept., 1916. . 29,958
Mar., 1914.. 83,444 Mar., 1917.. 15,962
But w’hether the co. is any better off for
having been once over £lOO,OOO in debt is
doubtful. It certainly meant a long spell of
dry years. And now, w’hen the liabilities
have been worked down to a few thousands,
the profits are not enough to pay a 7 p c
dividend. After all, it might have
been more profitable, as it certainly would
have been safer, had the co. just traded on
its own capital, so that the shareholders
might have got the profits instead of banking
them up as the directors had to do. Cer-
tainly the co. showed on March 31 reserves
a most equal to the capital (the reserves in-
clude ±ol ,88 of a depreciation fund) • but
though that may give the shareholders a
comfortable feeling, some of them may be
inclined to ask what is the use of having net
TSIIZ^ a i aearl y double the amount of
the capital if the co. can’t show a profit of
more than about 7 p.c.
* * * *
Solomon Islands Development Co
formed in Sydney in 190 S to make planta-
tions and grow rubber, copra, bananas mo
tem.) and dividends:— a
1909 1 . 1 ! £847 Dlv, *nds. To Reserves. Deficit.
Profit. £847
191 °” 78 Nil £7B 769
1911.. 1294 Nil !9 94 Res ,™-
1912.. 1613 5 p.c. = £2OOB —-
Premiums on new sl’ares 5909 . f
1913.. 4506 74 p.c = 3265 lo'ji 23
1914.. 4371 10‘ P .. 4889 “ H 64
1915.. 2308 Nil 7 ‘ 346
Premiums on scares “ -n i?'£ 54
1916.. 2676 Nil 68 '* j 9 ' 797
1917.. p / is }|:Jgf
But it is a very difficult matter to separate
expenditure on revenue and expenditure on
capital account in a case of this kind. The
co. last year spent £9760 which it treats as
outlay on development; this carries the
“property” asset (including land and build-
ing at cost) up to £80.872. As the separa-
tion of capital and revenue expenditure is
more or less arbitrary, it follows that the
year’s profit—as well as the profit for pre-
vious years—is wholly an estimate. Later
on, when outlay on development has stopped,
it may be possible to tell from the cash
balances how the co. is really doing. At
present the shareholder has to take the word
of the directors for it; and for the most
part the directors have to take the word of
Walter Lucas. B.P.’s Island manager, who
is this co.’s general manager.
Though the co. has, the accounts show,
made nearly £BOOO profit since the last div.
was paid, it is still necessary to dip into the
shareholders’ pockets. But they are prob-
ablv rather glad of that than otherwse. A
while ago it looked as though these Solomon
Island cos. would have to be content with
the comparatively small areas they have
planted, utilising all their labor to keep the
weeds down —and tropical “weeds” are first
cousins to Jack’s beanstalk. Latterly, how-
ever, things have improved a little, and this
co.’s labor force had been built up to 435 on
March 31. 1917 —the best it has been at any
stock-taking since 1911. Incidentally, to
assist in keeping down the growth, theordinary
or garden variety of cow has been introduced
to the plantations. So far Strawberry has
been found to be an ideal plantation-weeder:
she doesn’t have to be paid off and returned
to her old home every two years, just about
the time she ought to be getting really valu-
able. Between Strawberry and the increased
force of other labor, the co. has started clear-
ing and planting again. But this doesn’t
mean that the conditions are satisfactory.
As a matter of fact, various small Solomon
plantations have given up the hunt for labor;
and this has improved things for the moment
for the three cos. in the B.P. stable, which,
working together, are able to maintain a
vigorous campaign. One result will be an
early call of £5 per share, which will make
the 1000 £lOO shares paid to £7O. That,
it is expected, with sales of produce, will
see the co. through the current year.
* * * *
National Mortgage and Agency Co. of
Maoriland :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904. . £32,610 B£p.c.= £16,999 £15,611 £77,400
1905.. 40,240 10 „„ 20,000 20,240 97,640
1906.. 34,880 10 „„ 20,000 14,880 112,520
1907.. 35,226 10 „ „ 20,000 15,226 127,746
1908.. 35,456 10 „ „ 20,000 15,456 143,202
1909.. 38,141 lli„„ 22,500 15,641 158,843
1910.. 38,505 111,,,, 22,500 16,005 174,848
1911.. 41,149 12$ „„ 25,000 16,149 190,997
1912.. 41,669 121,,,, 25,000 16,669 207,666
1913.. 41,056 121,,,, 25,000 16,056 223,722
1914.. 40,789 12| „ „ 25,000 15,789 239A1l
1915.. 39,356 12| „ „ 25,000 14,356 253,867
1916.. 30,729 12j „ „ 25,000 5,729 259,596
This English co., in which lords and vis-
counts are common occurrences, had a
record gross profit in the year covered by
these gradual accounts; but the war has
one way and another bitten out well over
£12,000 more than it did in the preceding
year. And in that year war taxes in Brit-
ain took £5OOO more than usual. Maori-
land is, however, still very moderate in its
demands. The chairman put it this way;—
\ Charges” ®hows an increase in round numbers of
£15,00° of which over £9OOO is attributable to
additional taxation in this country. Passing from
the first to the second item under the head of “Land
and Income Taxes in Maoriland” ( £6522), we find
that that item is practically doubled, and it has not
yet arrived at its maximum.
It is pretty certain that Britain is thus far
taking at least three times more from the
OO’ „ than . ao )’il an d is; and probably, seeing
that Lriturn is providing the monev out of
which the meat-growers of Otago and South-
land (whom this co. is engaged in financ-
ing) are making their pot, this is a fair
thing. But it isn’t a fair thing that the
meat-growers should be pocketing their
profits, leaving the war bill to be paid by
pocket Wh ° WOD ‘ haVe any war P rofi t» to
its N lonn?!i y - he lu' hasn ’ 4 added much to
one n a ing i t,e year - Its advances of
whichS a ? another now amount to £958,352,
which is actually a trifle less than they were
L* m h°e n en S ""T® 4 apc ount debits hav-
ing been considerably reduced.
and merchandise stock run to £135 079 and
cash and investments to £333,504 the latter
fhT g co’s Pr °^-r? V equal t 0 whole**
tu?es The ce ap i rt f rom deben-
lines * and its Toi 41,1,8 ~f i? a nces on safe
a fair mil r * *P >C ’ dlvld end still leaves
Mtra tasation which
helnl™ f a man who has spent many years
thS the 9 h° V eT -Tasmania, and now finds
seriousf-i 0 ” ° f afloat is getttag
? he is a*- s “
G. anted responsible government in


£12,500,000.
The Trust Funds under the control of
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
exceed this figure, thus ®kowlDS
confidence in which it is held by
the
the
public.
This Company offers dis-
tinct advantages over the
Private Trustee.
Write for Booklet setting
out particulars of its
Methods and Charges.
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
It COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
are Born to
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
tk 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,C0C
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Pald-uo Capital . ..96,1656'6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVF., General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. —Advt. 1*
The weak point of metal pipe has been made the
strong point of Pioneer Wood Pipe. In which the
minimum amount of metal surface is exposed to rust
—a telling point when taken in conjunction with its
manv other satisfactory features. Write for our
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company,
Limited (Head Office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Fac-
tories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W.; Footscray, Vie.;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State
Governments. — Advt.
# * * *
The success of the Tote may be debatable, but
there’s no doubt about Asbestolite being the most
economical, handy, durable and satisfactory of
building materials. Time doesn’t Try it —it Improves
it. Large range of sizes and all best Three-ply
Veneers and Arniwud Finishings stocked. Get Book-
let “15.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— Advt. [8
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Svdney.— Advt.
* * » *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
**. * *
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, latest models,
two for sale from Sydney stock —14 nominal h.p.
(maximum effective horsepower 49), 16 nominal h.p.
(maximum effective horsepower 56). Just the right
power for sawmilling or mining operations. Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., head office, “The Quay,” Sydney.—
Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
■* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. AVrite
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
IMMEDIATE SALE.
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHER.
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia.
SEPTIC TANKS^
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
X HE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
-1 fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Dally Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
Liability under the Workmen's Compensation Act
Commenced on Ist Jvily, 1917.
Any Employer of Labor can SECURE COVER AT ONCE from
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited,
THE LEADING ACCIDENT CO. OF AUSTRALASIA,
Tei5.—2404,2405. 79=81 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
1856 she first visited Cohen in 1867, and has man-
aged up to the present to pile up a public debt of
13 millions. Her population is only 201,000, and
although her natural increase is the highest in the
world she has the lowest actual increase of popula-
tion in the Commonwealth. Since 1861 departures have
exceeded arrivals by 8561; she is the only State in
the group that shows a debit in this regard. Her
climate is good; she has a very high production in
minerals and all products of the soil —much higher
than any other Federal State. She also possesses
vast timber wealth, large iron deposits, immense
undeveloped water-power, fine harbors, good rivers
and a plentiful rainfall. With all these resources
she has now nearly reached a stage when something
will have to happen, or she will not be able to con-
tinue as an independent State. In 1915 she col-
lected in revenue £6 3s. 6d. per head and spent
£6 17s. 6d. The Commonwealth average is £9
10s. 3d. and £9 16s. Bd. respectively. Of her
revenue 29 per cent, comes from taxation and 27
per cent, from the Commonwealth grant, whilst the
average for all States is 14 p.c. and 13 p.c. re-
spectively from these sources. From public works
and services she draws only 29 p.c., compared with
the Commonwealth average of 57 p.c. Thus 56 p.c.
of her revenue comes from taxation and Common-
wealth subsidy, and when in a few years the special
grant is exhausted half of this line of revenue will
be gone. Tassy spends 37 p.c. of her revenue in in-
terest and sinking funds, against a Commonwealth
average of 25 p.c. (The sinking funds, by the way,
are a delusion and a snare.) This would not be
serious if the borrowed money had been spent on
reproductive works; but, as, already shown, receipts
from public works are very much lower than in
any other State. Only 38 p.c. of loan money has
been spent upon railways, whilst 35 p.c. has been
spent upon roads and bridges. The Commonwealth
averages are 60 p.c. on railways and only 9 p.c.
on roads.
This is Tasmania’s dismal record of 61 years of
responsible government. Is there any hope for the
little island? She is too small to carry heavy bur-
dens on her agricultural and pastoral resources,
especially with so much of her 16 million acres held
by idle landlords. Apple-growing employs compara-
tively few persons. The tourist trade is only transi-
tory. The timber business as at present carried on
is a mere trifle. The only large hope lies in the
development and utilisation of water-power for manu-
facturing purposes. The treatment by electrolysis of
the complex ores of the State and Commonwealth
would help immensely. Tasmania is rich herself in
mineral wealth —in coal, iron and complex ores of
all kinds. Copper, tin, lead, zinc, wolfram, molyb-
denite, iridium, scheelite, bauxite, and baryta are to
be found more or less abundantly, but under present
methods of treatment it only pays to work the richer
ores. Iron is altogether neglected, copper is ex-
tracted and exported in the form of bullion and
refined in other lands. The refractory zinciferous
ores were mined and the richer portion sent to
Germany for treatment. The products of wolfram
come back to us from America in the form of metal
filaments for electric lights. Fountain-pens are
tipped with our iridium in Germany and America.
Pigments made from our lead and zinc are sent back
to us from other countries. Mining, with all the
concomitant secondary industries made possible by
the development of hydro-electric power, may and
should help Tassy to foot the bill and save her from
disaster.
But, in view of the keenness of foreign competi-
tion, which has grown strong on our neglect, Tas-
mania will need the assistance of a heavy Protective
tariff to establish these natural industries. If this
is not forthcoming, then it is hard to see how we
can avoid a steady drift into a very serious trouble
which will react upon the other States when they
come into the market either for new loans or for
renewals.
* * * •
Despite higher costs New Burragorang
(N.S.W.) has declared another 3d. dividend
(the sixth). The crudes are very rich in
silver and the rise in price is swelling the
profits. Some shipments of ore have assayed
up to 1400 z., and at 3s. this is worth £2l.
Lead contents (from 30 p.c. to 40 p.c.) add
from £9 to £l2 to the gross value. The
weak spot is the skinniness of the ore streak
and the small reserves.
* * * *
Bodangora (N.S.W.) crushed 463 tons for
gold and concentrates valued at £1291, or
£2 18s. 6d. per ton. This is profitable; but
a lot of money is required to develop what
are practically separate mines at the Horse-
shoe and Mitchell’s Creek shafts. Some
prospects obtained in development have been
good, but much work has to be done before
any large tonnage of ore can be proved. The
reef in the bottom of Michell's shaft was
lately only 12in. thick and worth 71s. per
ton; and in the Horseshoe shaft the reef
is faulted.
* * * *
There is talk of the Amalgamated Hill
End (N.S.W.) being absorbed by a neigh-
bor. Certainly something must happen, for
the co.’s bank credit is under £lOO. Tim
liability on 50,000 shares represents about
£sooo,'but the co.’s prospects and the direc-
tors’ undertakings to shareholders make
this worthless. In sparring for wind the co.
has handed parts of the mine over to tribu-
tors, securing four months’ suspension tor
itself. #
lodide (N.S.W.). blocked when it tried to
sell its output to Japan, got into financia
difficulties; and, seeing no way out, sug-
gested to the shareholders that they might
care to reconstruct and put up just enough
money to prove whether the experts are right
about the sulphides underneath. But a
majority of the shareholders were not inter-
ested, and a winding-up motion was carried
in Sydney last week.
* * * *
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) is hav-
ing another streak of luck just when it was
needed, as its No. 2 plant has followed up
a 3140 z. yield with one of 2680 z. No 1 is
also tallying up well. But all through No. 2
has had the pick of the creek-bed to handle,
as is seen by the last four half-years’ work.
The average of the ground pans out thus: —
No. 1 Plant. No. 2 Plant.
Oct., 1915 .. 6.581 d. 8.304 d.
Apl., 1916 .. 8.868 d. 11.069 d.
Oct., 1916 .. 2.148 d. 6.044 d.
Apl., 1917 .. 2.833 d. 8.112 d.
Costs last half year ran out at 4.012 d. for
No. 1 and 4.379 d. for No. 2. From bores
ahead of both plants it is pretty certain
that the co. is assured of a fair run of gold
for some time. The loss of £1233 made on
No. 1 reduced profits for the April term to
£2450. But even that much came in useful
in getting rid of Monty Cohen’s little deben-
ture debt of £3OO0 —the last of a £15,000
loan. This payment, made on June 30, puts
the co. on an even keel and prepares the way
for another bob distribution.
Figuring on trouble ahead Mick Wil-
liams has cut Edna May’s 43,000-ton ore-
reserve values down from 80s. to 735.
Setting the estimates for the last two terms
alongside one another the comparison does
not look at all bad. Thus :
, — Oct., 1916.— > r~ April, 1917 .
Tons. Value. Tons. Value.
73ft. level .. 4,(400 34/6 3,500 34/6
150 ft. level .. 3,980 47/3 2,350 34/6
225 ft. level .. 6,849 81/- 3,150 28/9
300 ft. level .. 21,122 94/6 12,100 90/9
385. t. level .. 22,350 80/-
Water and granite have been the bugaboos
during the last six months, and there are
some fat men hanging round the kerb who
will lay everything to nothing that it will
take 40s. per ton to cope with the water. If
such things were talked to an alluvial man
he would go out with a club. Even with the
burst of a few months back Williams got
costs (including development) down to 345.
2d. per ton; and as he was just about able
to do the last sink in the mine before clos-
ing his books for the auditor, he should get
back to somewhere near the 255. mark for
the rest of his career at the Edna, unless he
has awful trouble. The nigger in the wood-
pile is the way the big granite intrusion has
cut into the rich stuff at 3Ssft.
Clearly during the six months Williams
has pulled out a lot of rich stuff from above
300 ft. in the Edna, as he has the re-
serve of 90s. ore down to 12.100 tons. This
nobby stuff eased up the pressure elsewhere
during the term, but it involved the writing-
down of reserves all round to Some
plums also have gone from the 225 ft. level,
as the grade of the little pile on hand there
has crashed from 81s. to 28s. 9d. r lo-day ail
the stone left above 225 ft. measures only
9000 tons, so that if costs didn’t drop a bit
there wouldn’t be any fat in that quarter.
The mine has to rest for the balance of its
life on 12 000 tons at 300 ft. and 22 350 tons
(or what more may be opened up) at the
3Ssft., plus what the pick brings to light
underfoot to the Deeps boundary. Wil-
liams’s valuation of 735. given to the 43.1KJU
tons in sight means £157,000. If costs keep
about 345., then the stopes above 38ott.
should give profits of £85.000. On that, the
market valuation would appear to be right.
But there is stone underfoot, as work at the
Deeps shows; and the puzzle is to fix what
it is going to give. The two levels above
yielded over 30,000 tons of stone each, and
if the last lift to the Deeps yields only
20 000 tons of 00s. ore, an additional margin
is at once available for the punter. Lump-
ing proved and possible reserves. together,
ouTthis basis the mine would have 63.000 tons
in it worth £217,000 gross. Reducing costs
not to the 255. talked of, but to 305.,
Edna May can show roughly 60s. a share.
Yet the market, which as a rule doesn t
flounder badly when a claim is opened uo like
the Edna May, would require a lot of
wheedling to get it to buy shares anywhere
near that figure. Now, what is the trouble.
# * * *
Commodore (W.A.) is pleasing sharehold-
ers with reports of the Macquarie leases over
which the co. has an option. The Macquarie
has been sampled, but no assay balances
were broken. Investigation has proved that
the leases contain, perhaps, 100,000 tons of
ore, but those interested would be wise not
to expect a great deal of gold.
* * *
Although the best has been taken away
and the outlook is still not bright at depth,
Ivanhoe (W.A.) continues to do well out ot
its upper levels. Gold won last year was
Sorth £383,723 against £381,984 in 1915, and
despite increased cost of min’ng materials
and labor, working exes., at 21s. 10d., were
only Id. per ton more, whilst development
expenses (25.) were sd. per ton less. The
profit amounted to £119,2i9, and the avail-
able balance, with the £14,612 brought in,
was £133,891, from which 10s. Gd. per share
was distributed in dividends, absorbing
£118,312. Ore reserves, after the year’s
extraction of 240,050 tons, are computed at
1.002.096 tons assaying 365. 3d., or about
24,755 tons less than 12 months ago. The
investment account stands at £164.435, and
cash, bullion, loans, etc., at £96,652. The
report includes an informative plan indicat-
ing the position of the east lode and the
porphyry bar,
* * * *
The final div. in Cathcart Central, Ararat
(Vic.), will be Is. 6d., to go on top of
£112,500 already shelled out to holders.
Geo. Bryant was helped to the _ jam
at the end; but what about the bit of
work done by Roberts and Browne? Any-
way, no crape will be needed, as George
Bryant won’t be lost to the district: he is
to shove the barrow ahead at Langi South.
Anent that long-drawn-out show, he declares
in a round-about way that the Langi gutter
ought on ounce ground to return 20 p.c. to
shareholders. He works it out this way.
The Cathcart Central with wash drained can
do that; ergo so should the Langi shows.
Exactly; but the Cathcart is a tributary, the
Langi a big main uncrossed lead, and the
draining is the job. Once that is done,
Bryant and Toole ought to be shifted to
Duntroon to learn tactics if they cannot get
out wash for 12dwt.
* # * *
Moral courage kept Central Red, White
and Blue, Bendigo, out of Teddy Dyason’s
embracing arms, and virtue is having its
reward in developments at the mine. Lan-
sell’s ISO, next door, pointed the way _by
having good gold on the boundary at 225 ft.
The cap of the saddle here is 25ft. wide, so
that it isn’t to be sneezed at, and Central
Blue is hustling along to get on to the shoot.
To do this an intermediate level is going
north, and it is because the Bendigo shoots
do not snuff out in a foot that Pall Mall is
agog. Then the tributors at 400 ft. look to
be on decent dirt, and as a third string the
co. has the west crosscut at 1720 ft. punching
into solid quartz — an east leg.
But so far it is only quartz —no gold.
* * * *
No. 2 N. Columbia, Gympie, crushed 170
tons for 2840 z., and quickly handed out a
fourpenny. The previous dividend, in May,
was worth £l2OO. This show, because of
anticipated dividends, is a favorite at Gym-
pie, shares being worth about ss. or 6s. The
good stone is coming from the 1468 ft. level;
the stopes carry from 9in. to 12in. of crush-
ing stuff in good country. But, like the rest
of Gympie. the reef is patchy and the stock
consequently speculative. One 118-ton crush-
ing from these workings gave 6370 z.
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, is in
better health since it struck a payable run
of stone in No. 20 hanging-wall level. The
latest crushing was 3SO tons, worth £2326;
also, 350 tons of tailings were cyanided,
taking the total to £2532. But there are
250,000 shares.
* * * *
Melbourne-owned Lode Hill, Cooktown
(Q.), has just paid its first sixpenny; the
directors had £3900 in hand before declaring.
No. 2 face of washdirt is practically worked
out and the future is very speculative, be-
cause profits depend to a large extent on the
quantity of washdirt in the recently-pur-
chased block.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) is still hand-
ing out dividends at the rate of 10s. a year,
which takes £BO.OOO and is equal to less
than £l2 per ton on the co.’s copper. Wal-
laroo and Moonta can pay its quarterly
half-crown easily with copper realising £lOO
per ton f.o.b at a S.A. port, but with high
insurance and freight it is hardly possible
to judge the future. Progress reports are
optimistic with regard to the development
of deep levels at Wallaroo. From Taylor’s
shaft the vein stuff at the western end of the
2910 ft. level is 12ft. w'd» and averaging
4 p.c. copper. At the 2550 ft. level from
Young’s shaft the drives east and west on
the newly-opened ore body have proved
p.c. ore for a length of 21ft.
* * * *
Many Peaks (Q.) has just paid its 27th
div. (£1020). The little co. has been receiv-
ing a royalty of 2s. Gd. per ton for years
from Mount Morgan, which also paid
the cost of mining. Once or twice the big
co. has felt rebellious and has tried to reduce
its purchases by getting rid of surplus silica
and by using ironstone from Iron Island and
limestone from local quarries. But there is
a solid difference in value between copper-
bearing fluxes like those provided by Many
Peaks and barren ironstone from Iron
Island; so the little co. hasn’t been much
perturbed. Shares are very rarely on the
market.
* * * *
If you have a motor running in a very dirty or
dubtv place, protect it by means of a Type “I ’ form
“K”-20 totally-enclosed Oil Switch, which is provided
with no voltage, and instantaneous or time limit
over load protection, acting as an insurance against
costly repairs to your plant, thus increasing your
profits. These switches are especially manufactured
for mining and industrial service, and the Australian
General Electric Co. will be pleased to forward any
information desired on these switches or any other
control problem that may present itself to you Advt.
. • * *
A man is as good as he has to he, and a woman
is as bad as she dares, but a roofing is as good as
it’s proved. Adamax Roofing is the best by test.
After exhaustive tests it was selected by the West
Australian Government for use on their Wyndham
Freezing Works. The Ma State and the Vic. Gov-
ernment have used it with great success. To be best
by test is not all that we claim for Adamax.
Adamax is a cheap, durable and permanent roofing.
Compare it with galvanised-iron. It costs one-third
the price of iron, and it neither rots, rusts, sweats,
pinholes, nor affects drinking-water. You can
use it for roofing homes, mine buildings, barns,
dairies, and for making water-tanks, gutterings, etc.
Write for free booklet, “The Adamax Series,’
which tells you all about it. Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.


CIMRLES
HEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
OMHBMIE'
nt PLUS ULTRA
r
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED in FRANCE.
xoste
ALLAN &, CO
pty. ltd.
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/, oosted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song—More/
Meditation . . Morcl
A Resolve - . Kotlar
Questio " - - Kotlar
Contemplation . . f( ot { ar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blare
ALLAN S. 261 Collins St.. Melb.
the PRIDE
°F FRANCE—
MOE-T ®, CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE
VINTAGE
'ney,
1900.
COME UP TO
THE sunshine
SEASON
Barron Falls . R at _ r
Ul p h, , ''
season of
fV&mG
Acfdr&ss
£ > ’ry?c-r or of
"fipfek* & T»unsf Bureau
QUEENSLAND,
*% % ' -viSsja
-
»*%
i?X.. ar,
■
S.B,
3-:
m
,
:-
m
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, July 2, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
The Governor-General pronounced the
grace before mutton at the opening of the
Sheep Show. Later his Ex. invested the
grand-champion ram with the ribbons of
his order. This means that the Miowera
duke butted for freedom while hefty men
held him tight and the G.-G. put the colors
on. The Rajah and his pretty missus poked
round the woolly aristocrats. “Poked” is
the best lay word to describe the opening of
a sheep show—from the indignant beasties’
point of view. Wool men seize the animal
'and their friends dab hard brown hands or
white kid fingers (as the visitor’s sex may
be) deep down into the fleece. Lesser prods
come from the squatterlings, who are on in-
timate terms with all mutton. Pat Osborne
(at the war) took various prizes for his
highborn Romney Marshes. John Nixon, the
Canterbury (M.L.) sheep magnate, and D.
M. Sutherland, of Waimate (M.L.), were
also to the fore. The silliest-looking sheep
amongst those present were the Shropshires,
which are absurdly like the china ornaments
of Mary’s little lamb. The Fairguson wore
the top hat and other garb which is rarely
seen off the stage in these days. The Grand
Champion was visibly impressed.
W hat a brittle thing is Precedent! Like
Humpty Dumpty all the King’s horses can
put it together again if you drop it on t
pavement. Tassy’s new Governor Newt e-
gate had to mind the step lest he shou
stumble. Had he been able to behave ratio
ally lie would have gone direct to Launce
ton from Melbourne. But Precedent insis ts
on a new Tasmanian Gov. landing
Hobart. So his Ex. had to come on to Syc-
ney. This brought the Cullens from the
Mosman lair to week-end at Governine
I louse and offer cutlets and beds to the tra
ellers. With the sub-royaltv are Capta
r itzgerald and Captain Glaiiville as gen
helps. They are badly wounded Britis
soldiers who are going to convalesce in tl
A.D.C. department.
Clifford, looking a new man afte
ruralising amongst the dandelions, goes on
the Fergusons’ staff on July 9.
The G.-G. Fairguson camped for th
week-end with James Burns (lately knighted
at Gowan Brae, beyond Parramatta. Wid
paddocks and a mileage of bushv park enclos
the Burnses’ big white house. Nowhere nea
Sydney can you find more beautiful watth
I lie officers of the Burns-Philp shippin
establishment knew the chiefs pride whe
they had a recent “address” to him designed
one of the panels (it is a folding document
shows a charming view of his beloved Gowa
Brae.
The Town Hall throbbed with the Hughe
oratory about war stamps and the necessit
of emptying the old stocking to help th
nation On the platform a sprinkling o
clerical coats mingled with the plain citi
inst S beh : TT Ri r, Domld Mackinnon sa
ehf t A^ in< n t ie . I,a(lclt ‘ d seats of the mighty
the Acting-1 rcmier being at the left elbow o
the Prime Minister. Speaker Cohen Pro
fessor Peden and the Lord Meagher win
opened the show, were handy, in case ther
One LlT 1 ? w , ai "i° an to aWbody’s head
One lady understood to hail from Victoria
vociferated that women who went abroad in
fashionable attire in the present crisis ought
to be ashamed of themselves. Whereat ul
those who had come out in their worst hats
applauded with enthusiasm. But dead
silence within the furs. a
Do you remember the H on Billv
Grosvenor chiefly remarkable for his dan/
Img shoe-laces and casual schoolboy ways s ’
just ?eU er « e V^ilip
Lord Dalmeny, eldest son of Rosebery'
there’s a notice from Dalmeny St he
won’t be responsible for his wife’s debts
Beauchamp married one nf n aeDts-
but he has ImA ™<- 0 u 1 ot . e Grosvenors,
out ne nas had no trouble with milliners
‘he helping “ attain
16 Tl" told, S the“ e craft a thSt tieS "7',t °''' v
to start with, gave a graphic sailor-chat of
the long swell of the East Indian Ocean,
the horrors of the shambles they found after
the fight, and the bluejackets’ clever handling
of desperately-wounded Germans as they got
them into the ship’s boats. Mrs. Laidley
pleaded guilty to having stalked the sea lion
for the occasion.
Ernest Joyce, who looked after the depot
work on three Antarctic expeditions, is cul-
tivating shore legs at Cremorne, where the
stoutest gale that blows is a black nor’-
easter. He recently took to himself a wife, a
Maorilander, and won’t go hunting icebergs
for many a day to come.
Acting-Premier Fuller pulled aside the
drapery that hid the names of 176 sports in
a roll of honor in King’s Cross Theatre the
other night. The rest of the evening was
given to a mixed programme, and “here’s
luck’’ to a sportsmen’s unit. Then the lads,
headed by a lively band, marched down
William-street as quiet folk were putting out
the cat.
A Sydney tenor—wild bullocks will not
tear out his name—has consented (with a
sigh) to blacken his face and appear as a
Christy Minstrel at the French village on
July 13. The village—with oysters and a
cabaret entertainment—will spring up like
popcorn in Macquarie-place.
France’s Day matinee at the Tivoli was a
tremendous success, and £360 or so goes into
the till in consequence. Soprano Nellie
Leach (here is Judith Fletcher’s impression
of her saucy smile) was hon. organiser and
general rouseabout;
and first-aid on the
business side was
rendered by E. Gard
Trouton. These two
can take a fat help-
ing of the credit for
the success. Albert
Goossens, to the fore
as usual, sang ex-
tracts from opera,
supported by Leah
Myers, tenor Marti-
nelli and again Nellie
Leach—she aglearn
in white satin with
heavenly tulle pan-
iers and diamonds.
The youthful Bar-
bara Gordon led a
; v . magpie set of young
charmers with Buster Brown bows. Then we
had Marie Segur in French songs, Grace
Stafford in pink ballet skirts (and a recitation
to match), and Mrs. Leslie Walford and her
sister in a musical sketch. This duet, mostly
in a froth of muslin, like white of egg weli-
beaten, wore, besides, knutty emerald-green
jackets and hats of the same hue. Immense
applause for the smartest turn-out in the
vaudeville line. Neville Mayman and Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, who had two stage quarrels on
end, were gorgeously apparelled as Sir Peter
and Lady Teazle. The Tivoli staff worked
like navvies don’t to help the show, and a
tearful treasurer had to see £2O or £3O turned
away at the door.
Any money in sweets? Oh, a copper or
two. Mrs. Edols provided the toothsome
.m.vs at a recent flare-up for France. Miss
Moreau and other damsels strapped the trays
to their shoulders with tri-color ribbon, and
pushed the sales. About £6O had to be
counted after the event.
Hungry hospitals are scratching for a few
crumbs. Mrs. Spencer Brunton got a par tv
of bridgers to her house for the Alexandra
Hospital bread-bin, and there was £43 in the
hat to buy loaves for the sick kiddies.
Supervision of War Chest stalls in aid of
finance s Day will be with Mrs. Antill. There
will be a _ tremendous number of winded
creatures, including hundreds of dozens of
quail, for sale. The Chanticleer Stall in
Moore-street will crow under the direction
v- f am £n S - St others) Friend, Mrs
A ictor White and Mrs. Lethbridge. Mrs
Chambers will sell favors.
Mrs. William Macleod’s stall, near the
VI f LY +.^ ELEGRAPH office - will sell high-class
confectionery and loafery, French pastrv
raisin loaves, milk loaves, Gallic rolls etc
Mv. fi. Gartrell, of North Sydnev. has gen-
?0 U %l° nated k PSe goods t 0 the TOluf of
r A Ather sections of the stall will be
to Welsh. Mrs - FlO}d - Mrs - aid
o J? n ii of the charmers * at a recent patriotic
sci amble was pretty Eileen Roberts, who
used to be Eileen Bain, of Neutral Bav Slip
married Surgeon Roberts. R.A.N.. who had
to dash for Ids ship a few days aft-pr Hi
wedding. But his U h SXIJYu.
tralian waters, and Mrs. Eileen is off to try
to get a glimpse of her new hubby on the
other side of—yes, that’s where he is!
Lady Poore lias turned out a spcond
volume of reminiscences; but she pretty well
exhausted her Australian memories in thi
the Nil! pS'
on ™fnner. P 7^l%^
like si wild sheik from the desert, he danced
upon the quarter-deck, sat on his haunches
and skirled an Arab song. The completely
mystified bluejackets were astonished at the
captain fraternising with such a heathen.
While the Poores were stationed at Malta
the Kaiser turned up in the Imperial yacht.
Lady Poore says he landed in the uniform of
a British Admiral, and all through his visit
“played the part of the bluff and hearty
.sailor.” Boarding Poore’s ship, the Illus-
trious, which was undergoing a clean-up at
the time, the Kaiser exclaimed: “Ah. Cap-
tain Poore, how beautiful your ship looks!
Just like a blushing maiden arrayed for her
first ball.” As a matter of fact, says the late
tenant of our Admiralty House, the ship
“looked like a moulting barndoor hen having
a dust-bath.”
Hilton Bede Allen, killed lately in action,
had climbed from private to staff-captain
before the Last Post sounded. Gallipoli won
him his first star, and the others came in
France. Allen was an old boy of North
Sydney Grammar and a son of R. A. Allen,
who has kept an eye on the overdrafts for
the Commercial Bank at Quirindi for years.
After much ’phoning, the Anti-Shouters,
headed by the McMillan dame, Grace Bur-
rows and Mrs. Langer Owen, caught Billy
Hughes on his perch at the top of the Com-
monwealth Bank. They took with them the
precious thing— two garden rollers full of
names! One of the National Council backers
pushed the trolly across the floor to the feet
of the Minister, who patted it on the head
and promised to see about it. H. E. Budden,
old politician J. S. T. McGowen and Edith
Fry gave the Anti-Shout reels good refer-
ences. Billy, who had torn himself away from a
Chamber of Commerce speech, was then able
to retire with a cough lozenge. None of the
deputation mustered up courage enough to
speak to the little man about his own furi-
ous cigarette habit.
The Collapsible Box show for the War
Chest (at Beard-Watson’s) wasn’t all silk
and purrs. A few rival battalion dames
looked in and were sniffy as to its being
“their idea” in the first place. As if it
matters who thought of the notion first!
It came from Japan, to be plain and truth-
ful. The only thing that does matter is that
Mrs. Herbert Clarke expects to hand the
W ar Chest fSO by her two days’ effort.
More trouble in the Amen Corner of Syd-
ney’s toniest Anglican tabernacle of St.
James’s. No. nothing about vestments this
time. The shaking of thrones in Europe led
to a democratic move at St. James’s, and at
the last “Easter meeting” the congregation
elected a parish council to supervise the
three churchwardens. Two of those auto-
crats. who don’t look kindly on revolution-
aries, promptly abdicated ; and the third goes
round nowadays with a worried look, as
though he felt his halo slipping. Newly-
appointed rector Micklem, who came from
Brisbane a few days before the revolution, by
using all his tact has managed to keep things
smooth on the surface; but there are sub-
terranean rumblings.
The fine old head
in this little picture
belongs to George
Colling ridge de
Tourcey. But Syd-
ney knows him best
as Collingridge the
artist. In the long
ago he studied i
Paris—in the so lon.
ago that he caugli
the last train fo
Calais before th
German invaders on
tered the city in the
Franco-Prussian wai
of 1870. Coming to
Australia to work
on the Illustratei
Sydney News, hi
AH Society in ISBO. X tatVtiVohi
f4iin y larkes in tke scheme he got for it the
vis eV
the uSoricaTsW GeoSV h’
belongs to a French^fam
England in the earlv ISI whlch weut to
crossed the Channel again i“l85™ Sl ? * Dd
h he n e the downfall ?f NapoleS T T r
ne has lived to see ' d P° ie °n I. But
melting-pot that he "turns to C^ owns in the
the future mother tongue of fe ranto as
publics now in the making. * Luro P ean re-
Walter Hull, B.Sc., who demonstrates
Botany at our Uni., and does a medical
course in between, found time to ask Clare?
Poole, 8.A., the other day if she would. And
she will, later —when the M.B. is added to
Walter’s other lot of letters.
Bridge is a gilt-edged security against
famine in war funds. Little Mrs. Harry
Austin, just back to the lady-pirate business
after an illness, is rounding-up fanatics to
pay 10s. apiece for France on July 11. It’s
a late start, 8.45 p.m., at the Australia. But
they’ll finish early next morning.
Young Hamilton Merewether, son of the
late Henry, is in the last lot of Australians
to win the Military Cross.
Kate Rooney sends a coo-ee from Hawaii
and records that all’s well with herself and
little Billy.
House full for last Friday evening's show
in St. James’s Hall. Mrs. Hagon’s recita-
tion, Mrs. Verbrugghen’s French song, sil-
very-voiced veteran Randall Woodhouse, and
Goossens thundering the Marseillaise were
the plums. Flowers for the artists bloomed
by the basketful in the latest fashion—
tightly-packed posies in the early-Yictoriau
style, with slim waists and paper petties.
The auction sale having returned with ex-
treme violence at these affairs, a French flag
brought much bidding— agitato! —and finally
fell to the lot of a patriot named Russell.
The greater horrors of war came home to
us when the news flashed this way that Percy
Grainger has shorn his golden mane to meet
the exigencies of military service. He is
oboe player in Uncle Sam’s Fort Hamilton
band.
The Dickens Fellowship—Judge Back-
house presides—brought out its fourth
annual report a while ago. It breathes the
Pickwickian spirit of optimism over a small
credit balance. Ada Henry, M.A., Rev.
George Walters, Frank Walker and Mont-
gomery Stuart help the monthly reunions.
The ghost of Sairey Gamp walked the floor
at a recent party.
The Italian males in “Lucia,” except the
huge Belloni, are'not built for the heather-
and-brae millinery. But Miss Gonsalez as
Lucia and her lady friend Inez are gay as
peacocks in the Stuart tartans, and quite as
graceful. They’re a whole Highland gather-
ing without the brawny knees of the lads who
toss a caber on January 1. If women do get
into a universal rig before the war faints
away, what’s the matter with kilts, in cotton
goods, as a summer rig-out?
The Zoo Society swapped speeches and
tea-cake on Saturday afternoon in its new
premises at Taronga Park. President Bas-
sett Hull and Fred Flowers, M.L.C., chair-
man of the Zoo trust, said civil things about
the menagerie business. But I don’t think
Mr. Mowers said anything about the Zoo
motor-car. I suppose somebody else will have
to tell that story. However, if director Le
Souef didn’t get the motor-car, he is having
a trip “abroad” to buy more monkeys and
things. I suppose that is part of the*Thrift
campaign.
. 1 i )o y. o , u remember Bertie Adams, the small
gl “ w '^ h the glorious mane of red hair?
After 10 months in “Bing Boys” (London)
she has had a nervous breakdown and shuts
off work for a while. This is the first time
* _ \ e r ars the clever Australian has
lested. Managers have kept her too busy,
fi other Archie is collaborating as a son<*-
wri er with another musician. His most
brilliant success thus far has been “God
Crossley. Slmg &t the Palladium Ada
Dr. Norman Robertson and his wife ffor-
meriy Neida Playfair) were on the Mon-
golia when she was mined. The doctor is
after 1 ? bad*a* 0 -? yd “ Gy to have a leg seen to
attei a bad accident m Egypt.
Mater” +l ServGd the “Stabat
week's fe-isi- nra ItlG1 tlG main j° lnt a t last
chef Joe Rimdlp \ le oats I )read hands of
in azure pM ra - Goossens—a vision
angels’ n to pamers . lik e baby-
and Rev in a a Jaspers, Phil Newburv
The SOl ° VOi “ 8 -
led
Cross wants your fleeces whifo ui , d
r&JS wSf b b r e ed - ”," d iitimat '
Ism charge if t h e iTtfw e ', M ?- Bla xlar,J
teaching tabled sofdieS LTtonU™ 8 “5
Kememben the cho?S 4Ee
danisms ■ Wl th the flaxen-haired
wheel thnf vi- asbv ? or six years ago the
out from" Scotland wa S s a a^uHo° n in 1( h br ° Ught
turn at the Women’s College h Sanc “
Education Departmpnf- u
training have hopes at t(:achers-iu-
tapped last S g
Yours affectionately,
V ANDORIAN.


BLACK - WHITE
'4 :■;
"-.’■■"-■• .
->
.
1
«3*SK
'
<
*> tfs* #*r
v: v: V'--'"'
1 v: - \
•itSi fcfc * - •
■ ■
i g!
v *
*
sm I
: ::
.
& ,'i ■ ’O-
.
4; >: j-i *£&&■ . ' < ’ \ . t ,- ~ ‘, , S. ■» , v
' a- » 1 ’■*’ , *
S- . v • '•* -ses it- «!«EStoi^a&MPP
%' • X ,
S,* .•*&.' Jjjf. •- - I
‘ i
i •-.- .
. 'ft .Jt filil L: it*?/
■ : :
.
—.isSßh*.. * *•’
■■, f
X* X X ‘ :
' <S
„v 3# ’ #*,s ?
• -■%
1
.
p
i r 4
l^j
sdrfHK' '•-» rl , , '• *4
Ssfcvv 'H *■+* , r^ft^.iaal^iffiy44UtK>^i v rV '
lagfe t:*-; '' r "/*
lIP * -V* ' ’■ r
H(FsnS!® I tf ?|
ST. ... .i - -i
=<jj?
■ :. ■ ■:
;
: ‘
PH|jR
* J
|
« * t j* ■'
y i
: "-'A&ui
Zt
#«
■
■i I
fi«’-
•^wf
P-' .’ - ■ V W_^
t9F & y--\ - “V- '; ?j?2siiimstfisai
T ‘ ,v ?% > '
%
H
'
Pi®i
%
%:
»■■
p,- J, jili’Sj’lllte % v
P" - !' \ - t
■iifefsfe •%*-'
Sp/ |, mSmSm , \?y
4
, ■
K; Cm!M ♦ r
> .1
'. 1
- is# i
■ ixj
A
i
/.
* jsiSSss
:
■RR |
'
- « -.
.
I
: -4!
|Jh|Hb * *'»i r sBHk J S|r i ;^P
- r f Nk 4|»
JBFQSEm ■ -■*
* 14m ... ffllfeftgtejt!.*
H i
t *,.^.i
.-■' >:
■
..
-feiMsMbw - -~ „
mmMmmM Jm-r-
-• ML W, 'Miatoi/Sr*^
,. ._. ■-.£: ..,; -,, / t fe.,-. 5?
fpKl >, - , , ■-: 1 -:^ r Xir 6^,
j 1
isai " «
<KBhWWI-. * |
_j
:M
"*.:• '■
#Ssss
!
-:. . . , :- r _ .... ~ .- /;pp'3i i .:•
’ ‘ 4 I 9
„ . . ■ ■—
“DUBLIN FUSILIERS."
I
iMIMi ,*fe&
■■■■■■■■■■■
u r\not iju nidi fCO.C
WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO . LTD.


m.
aw
sss==£=s
YOUR
MAKES OR MARS YOUR APPEARANCE
FREE
I wdl tell Every Reader of this Paner pppr
how to Remove Every Blemish In a Few Day®
Stubborn cases have tee”alSSdthrtbSfflSf’ P h roduced 3 sensation,
specialists for years. You have never foVlW™? lif lans a , nd beauty
of anything like it. Makes n nHrfvnnmi - your “ fe used or heard
blackheads, ,T ts * P™Ples.
cream, lotion, enamel salve,Kf? almost like magic. No
S', d,et or apparatus, nothmg to swallow d lr g H^Z na > S » k ’ mas '
whether or not your comnlevion» d ,°esn’t matter
your face is full of mud”y P S Mt« ie™f nB ui t * whether or not
ra sing pimples and eruptions nr SfiPHv, ry blackheads, embar-
and “porey,” and you’ve i?Ped m^ hether .7 our skln « rough
to get rid of the WemShes d under the sun
just a few days, positivelv ram ” IS wonderful treatment in
fies your skin in a marveHouswav 8 e Vo ry i ble i! nish and beauts
It gives the skin the bloom look Vears younger
\£S*§Sr *&£
.o .sws *™n?sz as s*-®«su:s , «sasEaiat
this really astounding treatment *• To,
and vour name and^ddre^nd^s? gvT^
GRACE DUNCAN. (Suite 52 17S
Missingr Friends.
A aItHDB Ssffi&g* jssgn° f
municate with the undersigned PleHSe COm '
MAItSLAND & MARYLAND
London Bank aSS^h^S^
nt-icefl,
UAKE RADDON.'
P tte MgT&’rVS? M?*'
Dare Raddon) A wmiam jSTn'r M Ge °®=
younger), or Walter R fl ?l ddon (the
quired to communing flu. , on ' are re-
undersigned. The said rln rthw^ h with the
died on the 4th February % ddon
“° c or As/luin, a Bachelor at r? road -
a son of Robert Raddou of S 7' F i e was
by his second wife Tt ;«°i ~. eaton > Devon,
said Robert Raddon hod Q beheved that the
Wife Jane, via . Walter R„w. S M >' is *«t
have died in infancy) sv S 0 " 8 t* to
(the younger) and V, , llliam John
to have gone o Anst'an‘7 I S l ? r * *W«ved
i'ES, Tb*t/ Br •#££■ IS!:
BUCKLEY’S
Annual
Winter Sale.
Get
Interested
in
Your Own
Appearance.
82161. “The Balmoral,” one
of our many designs, liberally cut
and perfectly balanced J
Sale Price, 49/6.
Better Qualities—
Sale Price, 68/9, 77/-, 82/6.
good value
in
good clothes
when they are
“BUCKLEY’S.”
You can easuToRDER BY MAIL.
GlV ° bcight aild che »t measurements.
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, July 2, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie. —
The Government House theatricals have
been put aside for the time being; but some-
.thing almost as exciting is to happen. Lady
Susan Fitzclarence is to play Lady Teazle to
Cyril Maude’s Sir Peter. It will happen at
a matinde at the end of next month. Pro-
ceeds to the Australian Red Cross. Melba is
booked for a grand-opera scene, and will also
sing a song that goes wdth words to be
recited by Cyril Maude.
Richard Nevill is always popping up in
the English illustrated papers in some new
pose or costume. He is depicted in his latest
photo, as Comptroller of the Household of
Canadian Governor-General, the Duke of
Devonshire, at Winnipeg, and is wearing an
astrakhan toque and fur coat amidst dogs,
sledges and snow.
Months and months ago I told you that
the doctor-son of old-friend f f Smith, was
at a French military hospital. Now a
mutual captain-friend tells me the story of
Louis Lionel’s death. He had volunteered
for service in the trenches —not in his saw-
bones capacity—and had, after training,
been given a company. It was while lead-
ing them into action on April 2 that he was
killed. “His grave is near the village of
Noreuil, outside, Bapaume. which his battal-
ion captured that morning; and no mound
covers a braver soldier, nor an officer held in
more affectionate regard by his men.”
Geelong has had to wake up and give
itself three cheers. Major Maberly Smith,
who has taken the place of Colonel Semmens
as camp-commandant at Seymour, is a son
of the late Dr. Maberly Smith, long-time of
Geelong, and had his schooling at Geelong
Grammar. The new commandant joined up
with the A.I.F. soon after the war began,
and saw service on Gallipoli and in France,
where he won the M.C. in a successful
attempt to surround portion of the German
army.
Charlie McEvoy’s last son is gone—killed
in action. Lieut. Frank was with the Anzacs
at Gallipoli, and survived that adventure to
fight in France. When he “hopped over”
the parapet at Arras in April, not to return,
he was second in command of the 7th East
Surrey Regiment.
Editor Schuler, of the Age, has lost his
son and the apple of his eye. Philip
(“Peter”) Schuler, fallen in France, was
an exuberant youth, an enterprising jour-
nalist, a graphic war correspondent, a
writer of two or three one-act plays, author
of a distinctive war-book, “Australia in
Arms,” and a good soldier who enlisted as
private, was promoted to corporal at Broad-
meadows, to sergeant at Salisbury Plains
and to second lieutenant in France. While
in camp at Broadmeadows he started a regi-
mental paper which he called The Astra,
with, the motto “Hitch your waggon to a
star.” One of Norman Lindsay’s brothers
was in the same unit as “Peter,” and his
illustrations were a feature of the little
paper. Peter was an only son and truly a
light to his mother’s sightless eyes. That
tall, handsome woman, who passed on some
of her good looks to her boy, has been blind
for several years. She was one of the
Strachans, of Melbourne, before she mar-
ried.
The Stock Exchange adjourned one day
last week out of respect to the memory of
Deut. John McWhae, a fellow-member who
fell in France on June 21. He had been a
member of ’Change since 1913. when he suc-
ceeded his father, “old John,” M.L.C.. who
had been chairman for six years. “Young
d °bn j^ as 33, and had been recom-
mended for his captaincy with the British
Field Artillery.
Mrs. Fnlford and her husband (he was
until lately Consul-General at Tientsin) have
done with Cathay and decided to pitch their
V r °! aic , P "V. t ‘ roacL Mr - Fnlford was
EJ° the brilliant young medico, Dr.
Howard Fulford, who was lost in the
;. a , rat t Bafor . e her marriage Mrs. Fulford
was Miss Rachel Fletcher, the popular
daughter of Mrs. Athol Fletcher. Another
Ceylon NanCy ' ‘ S married to a tea-planter in
fri? il iLhl UgheS IS cnj ' oying a cour se of elec-
tric baths, massage and exercise. Mrs
Hughes occasionally visits the women’s
quarters of the same fashionable Collins-
street lightning parlors.
Captain “Paddy” Lewellin, the Mongolia’s
skipper, forgot to touch wood when he told
a pal here that he had no fear of mines or
torpedoes Paddy is a most popular ind°-
vidual. and his former school-chums invari-
this nort hlm T 'I d u- ner w j) en he floats into
n?I S d P ° rt ' . Blke his medical brother Gus
Tl 1S a bachelor. Dad was a well-
known Melbourne medico in earlier days.
The sinking of the Mongolia has reminded
Mrs Albert Miller of thl £2OOO worth of
lovely pearls that returned to Neptune in
the Arabia when that P. and O. liner was
lost, “I have only my tiara left!” wailed
the poor rich lady. How terrible it must be
to have nothing but a tiara!
The Charlie Lemprieres gave a Toorakese
supper party last Thursday night. Sister-
in-law Melba and Cyril Maude were the
guests of honor; and Lady Susan Fitzclar-
ence, who has been staying at State Govern-
ment House this week, came with Captain
Conant.
Said that Constance Waugh these days is
doing Red Cross work in the vicinity of
London.
Love laughs at locksmiths but not at
measles. Esther Fairbairn, who took to
husband Colonel Wheatley, D. 5.0., inter-
rupted her honeymoon by developing spots.
So the newlyweds had to part—she to a
hospital and he to his trench.
The Commercial Travellers are giving a
great party for the children on Saturday,
July 7. There will be a tea and bun spread
from 4.30 to 6.30, and later the grown-ups
will help the infants to dance and play.
The Very Naicest people are handing out
a new dance called The Saunter, and it is
being rushed by the flappers. The tireless
little Hyamses introduced a few 7 steps of the
fascinating glide at a patriotic ball lately.
The middle-aged Lord Abinger has just
married the Steinheil lady, w 7 hose trial for
the murder of her husband and mother-in-
law was a sensation of pre-w r ar Paris. The
Abinger family was known to Australia
through a younger brother, Leopold. Leo-
pold was here as Lieut. Scarlett (there seems
something appropriate in the family name of
Scarlett being linked with the “Red
Widow”) and was lost on the Australian
submarine AE2.
Ess a D’Ebro, back from her American
trip, _is sporting chiffons which are as
American as Sousa’s music. Her pui’chases
include boots nearly to the knees, short
skirts, cute hair effects and a silver tissue
hat. She won’t be lost in the erow T d, any-
way.
A big dinner party in aid of St. Vincent's
Hospital is to happen on Wednesday, July
11, at the Occidental. The Billy Hugheses
are going: also Melba, and Cyril Maude has
promised to drop in for a late supper.
Miss Adelaide’s valentine:—
Monday, though a holiday, was nevertheless fine,
and Tattersall's Club Cup meeting at Morphettville
was consequently well attended by the elite, spielers,
etc. The sensation of the day was the £lBl divi-
dend paid by Mr. Nott’s Westendale, which ran
second in the Hurdles. The diwy is a record for a
second horse, and ranks third on this State’s list of
tote odds. Only £2 65., by the way, was on Westen-
dale in the machine.
Miss Kathleen Kyffin Thomas, who has put in
admirable work as assistant Red Cross secretary, has
had a step up the ladder, and is now joint hon. secre-
tary with Major Connor.
After patient waiting Victor Harbor has got its
water supply 7, and the tap was officially turned by
the Premier on Monday afternoon. The reservoir,
which dams back the water in Hindmarsh Valley, was
begun in November. 1914, and, with a storage capa-
city of 90,000,000 gals„ has cost about £69,000. In
the holiday season water famine and visitors had a
habit of arriving simultaneously, and the pleasure
that should have reigned got shouldered aside. Now
the harbor ought to go near to being the earthly
paradise it says it is.
Died in London during the week, Robert Gordon,
of D. and W. Murray, Ltd. His wife is a sister of
popular “Tot” Hall, of Broken Hill, who also passed
west the other day.
Israel Cohen, the Glasgow Herald correspondent
who put in 19 months at Ruhleben, mentions a
couple of Adelaide men in his book concerning that
cheerful spot—Bryceson Treharne, once of this Con-
servatorium, who was performer, conductor and com-
poser at camp concerts, and evolved some incidental
music for a special performance of “As You Like
It ; and A. E. Howard, son of the oratorical and
-Kev. Henry, who was chairman of the YM C A
camp. * * *
For a time, at least, no money is to be collected
for sokhers memorials, the State War Council,
while appreciating the sentiment which prompts
citizens to propose the establishment of memorials,”
eeling that the money is wanted for more useful
things. Meanwhile the Repatriation Fund is work-
er! Wlth , the state Bank to help returned soldiers
and the widows of soldiers to buy homes.
Mrs. W. D. Scott, of Marryatville, who came to
vtnr ov," 63 > has i«st ticked off her 92nd
year. She is still young enough to be a gardener
and painter (it was Lady Kintore who first per-
suaded her of her talent for painting native wild-
of m.r S) h t I”" daughter - Miss Winifred Scott, is one
ot our best-known women writers
The Governor took Lady Galway’s place in the
Thursdf the Vlctoria League’s annual meeting on
Thursday, and served up special kudos to the women
members for the war work they have done. One of
t e league s most useful activities is sending news-
papers to the Front, and his Ex. announced that the
publications that he sends personally are in future
to go through the League. Mrs. Howard Davenport
whose proposed trip to England is temporarilv
that she has been able to take up the secretarvshin
again, announced that the society’s annual SS
of journals to soldiers is about 21,000.
Lieut. Ormond Foster, back from the long
b'ne, has booked for the wedding-march with
Ruby Aitken, the sporting youngest of a
Berrigan (N.S.W.) clan. The family side-
board is loaded with golf and tennis trophies
won by these Aitken girls. Mrs. Askm
Foster has enough money to keep the wolf
over the horizon. The late Askin, who
passed out suddenly at sea when returning
from England, was a Gippsland cattle-king
when he married the niece and adopted
daughter of the late Francis Ormond,
founder of Melbourne Working Man’s Col-
lege. - .
The “fair young Sydney girl’’ F mentioned
last week anonymously as having wedded
Ernest Watt has not had time to send me
the wedge of cake, and as cake is “off” in
London she may never do so. However, here
she is: Mrs. Prowse, who was Bertha Brady,
elder daughter of Dr. Brady, a Sydney
specialist. Her marriage to Captain Prowse,
much her senior, and then commanding
H.M.S. Powerful, occurred some seven or
eight years ago. He was killed in the Jut-
land naval battle. Mr. Ernest Watt is one
of the shipping firm of Gilchrist, Watt and
Co. His first wife was one of the beautiful
Weston girls (Mrs. Neville Dangar is one of
them). The new bride is uncommonly
graceful, flaxen-haired and piquante-faced.
Marjorie Williamson, eldest daughter of
the late J.C.W., who changed her name to
Browne last Wednesday week, is here at
Menzies’ with her soldier-husband. And a
fine, handsome, strapping blond he is! Or
rather looks. For he has had 18 bullets in
him and carries a cargo of shell shock as well.
He was in the retreat from Mons and was
the first winner of the Military Cross in
the war. Now that’s something! So Cap-
tain Lindsay Browne deserves his pretty,
gentle, little grey-eyed wife. Theirs was a
very quiet wedding. Marjorie didn’t wear
the usual bridal fluff, and the only outsiders
present were Mrs. and Dorothy Brunton and
the groom’s best man. Mrs. Williamson and
“Tootles” are comm? over from Sydney on
Wednesday to join the bridal couple in a
fly-around. Browne, by the way, is one of
the “Robbery Under Arms” clan.
Flags were half-masted on Saturday for
Railway Commissioner McClelland—young-
est of the three heads, a rare good fellow
and a great favorite. He worked up from
a clerkship in the service and died of heart
trouble in second-top place at 47. Friends
are speaking his epitaph in Collins-street,
where regularly at midday he used to stroll
up the steps of the Athenaeum Club in search
of a chop.
had good sporting notions.
Wishing to prove his contention that the
other State railway systems were just as
open to abuse as that of Victoria, he bet his
fellow-delegates at an inter-State railway
conference that he would travel bv rail from
Melbourne to Brisbane and back upon his
official Victorian pass. He won. The only
time he thought he might lose was when
booking a sleeping-berth on the return jour-
ney from Sydney. A young woman at the
office asked if he had a ticket. “Yes a
departmental pass. ’ said Mac, and displayed
the gold badge. The lady admired it tremen-
dously taking hold of it and examining it
minutely. It is a pretty pass,” she re-
marked. Ive never seen one like it before !”
Max Selinsky gave a wonderful recital at
the Assembly Hall on Thursday night. The
nrT^-f 168 V er ? , pla y ing in Auditorium
opposite, and violin lovers made little dash-
mg excursions from one show to the other
Brother Leo, the rhapsodical family top-
S7 3 SI , i J& ppe ! hiB ow j? fiddle as soon as he
had fimshei! a turn, and oived over, wrapped
in his astrakhanned overcoat, to listen to
f B l Sa bst of Bach or Beethoven. Then
the ff' ISaPPe u r and ’ cellist Mischel, of
the pale fair eyebrows, would slip into his
pmce. But Jan, the tall Bubbles of the
The hov ß to b k t 0 t h ’ S piano at the Auditorium.
X be . bo y.® have been booming so much that
the Auditorium had to open up the balconies
as we!l as the body of the hall-a grea? con-
cession to popularity at a music recital
on stern "chlLh’ M ? nbly Ball < ifc is built
Kirk) wS M llDes alon e side Scots’
Selinskv J Masson , . A Y as Playing with
Dale nfnir highly decorative in
theshoSider, mUSCUI " r a,ms barc *»
Peg Center, Melba’s singing girl, made her
COLT™**? 0 -* at the Saturday
Concerts just instituted. They are under
aS*"S5».«* fred Collier (baritone," an”
thereto™ 18 B ”.roo|ed to be interested in
Elrtas bl at li the tt Hal
house party alone and filM lb tLe b fh2t‘tfatis’
a wreath of tiny wild flower! was woven to
and out of her heavy plaits of hair. Peg
arrived in a misty dress of white tulle, with
flounces standing up on end. Her dusky
hair grows down to a peak on the forehead
in a fascinating way. Her voice is full of
the little graces and delicacies of sound; hut
though she “went” well, she was distractingly
nervous, and when she shivered back on to
the platform in response to an encore, Melba
rose impulsively, went up on to the plat-
form and played the accompaniment for the
encore. That gave the young singer confi-
dence and she sang like a bird, with vigor
and freedom. A clever girl, Ivy Phillips,
added her contralto to the programme.
Sara Allgood (Peg o’ m.v Heart) got a
fine house for her return at King’s Theatre
on Saturday night and a welcome that made
her eyes dance. Beatrice Yaldwyn, the
handsome Australian girl who plays the
chilly Miss Chichester, arrived on the scene
with an extraordinary black-jetted stomacher
on her light evening dress. Doris Gilliam
(Mrs. Chichester) livened up her horribly
austere part with delicate touches of pink
lavender on her most respectable foulard
gown. Mrs. “Dick” Tait was in a box and
a dress of transparent autumn broAvns. Mrs.
Ambrose Pratt, in black and white, enter-
tained a party in another pen. Italian
Consul Eles sat in the stalls wearing his
usual buttonhole of gardenia.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANN.


Born 1820 —
s till going strong
J
*
4
c
H
V
'Mi
v->
"w.
iv m
T%/. /
vV*
>v
"/
y
v
m
/07
'"I
S&
55
II
P
It
?&
/N
N
is
fa
AM
0
££
A*
m
c\
2
*
?
• o
K
%
'V.
%
/
<25
£
-s
'//
/.
S'
v~
I
mmr
°i
1
|Ed
1 ll»'
I
<3s V*z>^
Johnnie Walker: “You get your letters home, censored, eh?”
Anzac: “Yes, but we just put, ‘like Johnnie Walker, then
those at home know we are ‘still going strong!'”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK


THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863 r
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital <50,000 £lo' Shares)
Paid Up Capital
Reserve LtoWllty o^Proprietois®* B
Total Capital and Reserves
£1,500,000
500.000
£lOO,OOO
53,139
540,000
£993,139
Directors:
Senator the Hon. Sir ALBERT DIXSON > Chairman.
Hon. THOS. WADDELL, M.L.A. G ° ULD ‘ A A. C. COCKS, ML A
Acting General Manager: J. S . MARKS ANDERSOX > m’.A.
45 Branches andTcilTt TIT B ™® T ’
irr " nd a
the lQp_notch" scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
whisky
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
WAR RATIONS.
TEACHER (after explanation): "Now, can any of you describe the meaning of the wors
'drought'"
JOUNNY: "Pleassir, it's when the sheep have to eat without grass and drink."
on : hen the average boundary-rider
finds his steed has a sore back he plasters on some
an n« Ure ’ g L rease . or 01ntment > Soft's the saddle-cloth
acioss, next a horsehair pad or more blanket—all
Jf °« ? . tlO trouble —then the saddle and him-
self. So he rides about all day with the weight
icaring flat on the sore and touching hardlv any-
where else My way is different. Make a dng of
the hair-pad or anything soft and fasten it on to the
saddle-cloth to fit round the sore; then nothing
ouches and it dries up. If the cloth is double
frequently a piece, or two pieces, cut out is sufficient
ilf? he PreSSUre ’ When the nuisance is on thj
back bone and a flat-channelled saddle keens it raw
told the cloth up from both sides, flop the feUml«S
om and see that the channel is not touching Dob-
bins collar could be fixed the same way, with two
pieces of bagging or blanket fastened round to fit
each side of the tenderness. a to ht
“0.5. H.”: Anybody ever run across Peri-
opthalmus, the peculiar little fish on the mangrove
mud flats at Gladstone (Q.) ? It is from Sin. to tin.
long, and by means of its ventral fins and gill
operculum is able to hop along on the mud out of
water, f have even seen one scramble up the mangrove
roots, whilst another was actually found alive on a
leaf. A peculiarity is that its tail fin can act as a
respiratory organ.
“Pick’': The old-timers of the teamster
trade become expert at detecting the tone of their
bells. Among the confused jangle of dozens ringing
in the scrub or ranges they can tell from a mile off
whether their cattle are in the mob or not. Travel-
ling the Marulan to Nadjidgomar road once with
bullocky Peter Tickner, I saw him lay authoritative
hands on a bell that decorated the neck of a cow at
Windellama. Peter swore to the sound of the tinkler
which he had lost three years before. The dairyman
anted it up with the explanation that he had found it
on the road “a goodish bit ago.” It didn’t seem
to surprise him in the least that a bullocky should
recognise one of his own bells after three years.
“E.S.S.” : The keenness of the aborigine’s
ear for bird notes is evidenced in the names resem-
bling their call which he gave to familiar species, as
hnobook (kurrawong), jakul-vakul (the wCejugla or
t cockatoo), quook-quook (the topknot-pigeon),
doo-doo (the ground-dove), dilbong (the bell-bird)
and gorgork (the rufous barn-owl). The gillbird
seems to say “got to walk,” and Binghi’s name,
gurruwuk, just about hits it. Willy-wagtail was
called jirri-jirri and pul-cherry-cherry, the notes of
this bird being interpreted by whites as “Kitty
Fisher” and “Sweet, pretty creature.” Old Jack, the
kookaburra, also gets his name from his cry, there
being a good deal of koo-koo at the beginning and
finishing of his laugh. His northern cousin, Leach’s
kingfisher, is aboriginally known as kitticarrara.
The stone curlew was called veelo, or vveeloo; the
bittern, boon boon; and the white cockatoo, karaka
and karaway. There is a similarity in several of the
cockatoo names, as karrak (the western black or
redtailed cockatoo) and larawak (the great-billed
black cockatoo).
“Wonga”: A pal who recently stopped
at a cockv’s in one of the mouse districts had just
turned in when he found the pest biting fiercely at
his hair. A little later several started doing rag-
time over his chest. He decided to sit up and read.
Struck a match and found that the candle had been
eaten. After that he was prepared to believe the
cocky who told him that mice, to reach a well-
protected stack of seed-wheat, had climbed up an
adjacent tree and dropped 30ft. from an overhanging
limb.
™y. : Wl, y “damper”? An old writer
o ned ln N. S. Wales about 1840 says that the
name comes from Dampier, the circumnavigator who
saded along the coast of W.A. in 1697 or there-
abouts (the first Englishman to visit Australia) and
tucfer ° ld - time buccaneer invented the
tucker. Another accusation is that it is so r . u iiJ
because it’s the best kind of grub to nut a “ l n
on the appetite. put a damper”
Westralia is astonishingly free from im
ported thpy are w Jrking west f“ m s'
goldfield, o a X nd aS sparows aU alld “stair Murchison
along the rail wav darlings are moving
Augusta (S.A ). CZtrUCt-ionifrom Z trUCt - i0n i fr0m Port
that all railway men shall he t ser , lously P ro Posed
savage beasts at sight. e( and shoot the
CUSTOM OF THE TRADE.
“Shay, barber (hie), Why don't you open at five (hie) in the morning?"
“Why?"
“Well (hie), all the other butchers do!"
“Ornis”: Saw a white mutton-bird the
other day not one of the semi-albino thimgs half
white and half black, but a really and truly pure,
with pale bill, legs and feet all complete. It was
full ay own and came from one of the numerous
islands ifs Bass Strait. I have paid sundry visits
to rookeries of these useful but smellsome birds on
various islands, and have seen I won’t say how many
thousands of them, but never before met one that
looked as though it had bathed in a pot of white
paint. The mutton-bird industry is one that the
Tasmanian Government should look after properly.
It is worth it. Birds, cattle and sheep can’t and
won’t flourish together. The four-footed beasts make
a dreadful mess ct the burrows in a rookerv, and
the birds won’t return when they find their'homes
woken in. Rookeries should be protected all the
year round. Nothing else is any good. Furnau, the
S'; of parson who made an imperishable name for
himself when Launceston had a bad outbreak of small-
pox some years since and who as chaplain died at a
leper settlement up north, fought, a strenuous fight for
the islanders while resident parson there, but the
vested interests of absentee landlords were too strong
for him. •
“Chink” : I’m with the Abo-seribe who
claims that the starling is the prize pest among
birds. Its appetite gives it the championship. While
the little native silver-eye is picking daintily at
one mulberry the imported nuisance will swallow a
dozen. In Victoria in drought time I’ve' known a
flock of starlings clear a tree of hard green quinces,
f- t * le sa,ne tok en, they’re presently going to be a
tough problem for the fruitgrowers along "the lower
sm-eTd- ( r? Rapid travellers, thev were
spreading fast along the big trickle, from Waikeri
to Renmark, when I was last down that wav. IVe
met the cuss, too, away in the recesses of East Ginns-
SoTlh aiK a o "' iS plantin S a firm claw here in
rth sLkan e R Snd ’ a „ faCt that on the
\dd to th n * R f- ng t Wll have notice of verv soon
Ah! to the starlings orchard robberies the harm he
does in driving our numerous valuable native Wrds
o* leap assl f ance he renders on the farm in respect
; insect pkgues is badly overbalanced. Against
nLrsz'srg?- u " '•« jzt
* * *
“Barcoo”: The claim that Binghi is in,
mune from mosquito bites is so much fuff v
the monsoon has paid afd tte ™ mediatel -V
out, every available hnv 1 • ( e * u £ e has petered
muster, and the hea cllckm U mounted *>r the
is ic£rin Se t e h t 0 * th " t theie
on the packhorses for each of hi rat]o,l -cart or
-ally the gins InvEb^E?
growth which ha‘" the and
flank” of a horse? The “ nder thp “ thin
quickly. ? ” 0t ° ld ’ but
the horse’s movement, but might S'timf “***
“Bad Australian”: The Paraguayan cha-
cero, or cocky, has his troubles, too. The bandicoot
doesn’t hook his spuds, the wombat doesn’t roll in
his 15-bag crop of oats, neither do the depredations
of brer rabbit stop him from looking the mortgagee
squarely in the eye. But when his corn begins to
sprout a devastating fowl called the chopi takes a
grip of the young shoot and sits back hard. Then
he shakes the dust off the newly germinated grain
and drops it into his commissariat department quite
regardless of his neighbor, the armadillo, who is
busy exhuming and assimilating the same kind of
tucker. Later, when the plant is well grown and
the maize is in the milky stage, the acaliayi swoops
down and, picking away the outer husk, takes his
snare of the plunder. This encourages the little
bush rat, who, striking a good prospect in the
scraps which fall from the aca.'s table, shins cau-
tiously up and opens out a lead for himself. All the
time the howling monkey makes sudden raids and
grabbing a cob in either hand gets back like a
Hash into the monte, gibbering insolently at the
f° ~a " d his bow and arrows or his antiquated
tusil. rhe sugar-cane patch, although practi-
cally immune from the beetle, is continually raided
FATAL FLAWS.
COCKY (proudly) : “Ain't he a beauty?"
CITY COUSIN: "Oh, Uncle, not with all
those double chins!"
f u °K eS l , Whil ° the mandi oc4, of
’em good! gets the P t° n f lo ° r 12 VaHeties ’ a » of
dillo family Then th ' H> attention of the arma-
get away with the chicken S the m ° nte cat
the locomotive apparatus off tv, m caiman s ‘iaps
swallows the Muscow ,1 i th . e old goose and
tt. c«h-e.,i„““hS;.‘'Th, ll * w» to
baby’s toe-nails • the h • a gets tinder the
think that he is *"“■ the
ter ; the white ants P ®™ anent mustard plas-
keg; and—well, as I said hef otto ™ out of his carta
all right. S3KI before > he has his troubles
(Continued on page 24J
THE REEF WE LEFT BEHIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We knew the reef was there;
We found a hundred specimens that hadn’t travelled
far,
That never could have steeplechased across the granite
bar.
And they were roug'h, with edges keen, and not the
slightest worn —
And, oh, the gold that they contained ! —was big as
grains of corn !
Experts we were, for sure;
We knew the country’s tendencies, we knew the
country’s make,
We knew its whole geology—w r e did, and no mistake !
And so we guessed we’d find that reef that shed those
precious stones,
As surely as.our names were Smith and Robinson am:
Jones.
We knew that time would tell.
We loamed the hillside carefully, we traced the
golden trail,
We dollied-up the rubble, and we knew we must pre-
vail.
We even knew the sort of reef she really had to be—
Ten ounces to the ton o’ stone, and standard gold and
free.
And on our prophecies
We dreamt our dreams, the glorious dreams that
diggers dream in vain—
Of castles finer than the ones that gem the hills of
Spain.
We even had the pictures dreamed, the garden and
the trees.
The peacocks and the other fowl a castle-owner sees.
Hut, somehow', things went wrong:
\\ e didn t find the reef at all, although we stuck
like glue.
At last we took the track because our luck was
humpty-doo.
And later on a newchum struck the Eldorado. .. .He
Discovered it exactly where we knew it couldn’t bS!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


David Jones’ Sale
Commenced July 2. Ends July 14.
Reductions in Every Department.
%
ONE EXAMPLE of the considerable reductions operating in
every department.
We confidently claim that, at the sale price quoted, the boots illus-
trated above represent absolutely the best value it is possible tor
anyone to offer. Being made specially to our order from splendid-
wearing box calf, in extraordinary quantities, enables us to otter
such splendid values. Supplied in tan and black calf, lace style,
with fashionable round toes, medium welted soles, dnll-lmed, two
fittings to each size, in all men’s sizes.
Usually 217-
SALE PRICE,
IVE PAY CARRIAGE.
18111
David Jones Ltd
OPP. G.P.O.
SYDNEY
Chocolate?!
Fresh from the Factory.
Shipped to you on the day they are
made, the date stamped in each box.
We carry no reserve stocks.
Truly.—The last word in Choco-
lates.
Packed only in Red boxes.
PRICES :
3/-, 5/-, 6/6, 10/6, 15/-, 25/-
Post free to any part of Australia.
StiUJdt Hiltim
162 Pitt Street
Sydney.
/
W&p:;
.
m-
-11
■>. :
'
.■; : ,
."■■ c
WSsi
Leather Tweed Trousers, Judhpores, tu.
Reduced for “SQUARE-DEAL” SALE
Leather Tweed Work-
ing Trousers. — in DARK
GREY effects. Holeproof and
practically indestructible.
Made with Denim Pockets;
Riveted Buttons, and non-split
seat seam.
Sizes 3 to 7. Usual
price, 13/6.
“SQUARE-DEALED
12/6
Cross sizes and Stockman’s
Cut for Riding. 1 sual
price, 15/6. “SQUAKE-
DEALED” 14/6
A u s t r a 1 i a n Tweed
Trouser S. Splendidly
tailored in hard-wearing Dark
and Medium Grey Tweeds.
Made with Side Pockets; Cuff
bottoms.
Sizes 3 to 7. Usual
price, 13/6.
“SQUARE-DEALED,”
11/6
C2l.—Judhpore Rid-
ing Trousers. Ready-to-
wear. Can be supplied exact
to illustration. Fob and Cross
Pockets ; Belt Loops and Side
Straps. Sizes 3 to 7.
In KHAKI DRILL (2 quali-
ties). “SQUARE-DEALED,”
12/6 and 15/6
In Garbicord, of Dark
Stone Shade. Usual price,
15/6; “SQUARE-DEALED,”
13/6.
'W
MM
C2I
C2O
C2o—Riding Breeches— TAILORED To ORDER. In Khaki Drill, 21/-; Khaki Drill
SntonMol? It/O; Whipeo.,l, 45/-; Bedford Cord, 45/-; Self .trapped, 5/- *1
Buckskin strapped, 13/6 extra.
C2l Judhuores— TAlLOßED TO ORDER. In Khaki Drill, 21/-; C ? n f" M °,l e
27/6- MoleX! 27/(1; Mole or Khaki Drill Cord, 27/6; West of England Saddle Tweed
fnd White or Cream Bedford Cord, 45/-; Self strapped, 5/- extra; Buckskin strapped, 13/6
Ridino' Trousers TAILORED TO ORDER. In Khaki Drill, 15/6; Khaki Drill Cord,
Ford 18/B; Mole, 31/-; Twi.t Tweed., 32/6; Bedford Cord, 33/-; Self .trapped,
5/- extra ; Buckskin strapped, 13/6 extra.
Ask for FREE SAMPLES, TAPE & CHART.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
The LEVIATHAN
MELBOURNE.
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-each
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
J 2 Records 4
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/- each
Supplement.
SERIES.
Columbia “No. 27 **
PINK LABEL
12-inch Single-sided. Price 15s.
74015—1 PURITANI: “A te o cara.” (In Italian) Hipolito Lazaro, Tenpr
PURPLE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Single-sided. Price 7s. 6d. each.
7138
289
BSSUI
XXXXI
821X1
281X1
TBXXI
02XX1
BIUI
ixxxi
sxxxi
sxxxi
2XXXI
6£OXl
OXXt
XJ,
-Air for G String (Bach) ’Cello Solo, by Pablo Casals.
r SBWSS:
[ The Ho,y Clty With Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards.
LIGHT blue label series.
12-inch Double-sided. Price 6s. each.
( Greig’s Sonato in C Minor
Ha) Allegro and y iolin . and William Murdoch Piano.
SLa Fileuse (Raff-Henselt) .... Pianoforte Solo, by Vladimir de Pac nnann.
1 (a) Mazurka in C Major; (b) Etude (Ch p achmann .
, x v .„ Gerald O’Brien. Tenor, with Piano.
{tSnS?25 iw. «■» ’**> omwuo.
| “The Bartered Bride” Overture
| “The Marriage of and Beecham Symphony Orchestra.
Serenade Espagnole (Glazounow) Cello . o , y
, SaffTCavS a lßa ff :Wood) .' .* .* .* .*.*.’.* .* •' •' •' •'' Sir Henry” J. Wood’s Orchestra.
\ Danse Macabre (Saint-Saens) >' ” H ’’ bert Eisdell, Tenor.
j Love’s Garden of Roses
j O Flower Divine ”
( Wait (Guy d’Hardelot) ”
) Parted (Tosti) •••'' ‘
(Tristan and Isolde: Isolde’s Love Song (In Englisn)
l Aida: May Laurels Crown Your Brow (In B uckman. Soprano
I "■“«*» Kem, . el ' lW . EUm,ord .'. ® a KeZerll“E»mtord“la?S":
( Any Time’s Kissing'Time';' from “Chu-Ch'in-Chow”.. Ai'leen d’Orme, Soprano.
) Within the Garden of My Heart
10-inch Double-sided. Price 4s. 3d.
J m Sheltered Vale Kennerley Rumford, Baritone.
{ Absent ”
DARK BLUE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Double-sided. Price ss. each,
f “High Jinks” Waltz Prince’s Grand Concert Band
) “So Long, Letty” Fox-Trot ••••*’ ”,
f Something Seems Tingle-ingleing. from High Jinks ™ .
) They Called It Dixieland. (Introducing: Every Little orcheßtra
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Dalsing House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.— Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.— Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High S
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
•\
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


stores"' a ‘' C S ° W bj a “ c, ‘ emists *nd
J o o u rcs g e, L , a he Ms g e?„T„r;u d h t ir- Be «»
Martin, Chemist, :
MEGGITT’S
m
\
MEG
PAR
Vi
%
A
3
m
v*TW
ft
FARMERS!
Make Australia Prosperous by usins
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
b zi:~o:
tarry away al^The^riLt^ ' C *“ U
Rosehill Farm, Kingaroy at the '>',!« a' V "‘ SSt ™ e ’
first prizes with a pen of 1 ■ ' Sh ° W W ° n seven
butter-fat tests with a ’ and Won the three
-al-fe dc ow, S r St : re ra r n; f Meggitt Li ~
meggitt ltd..
y
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers, 26 King street S d
S ire et, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Te Whare”: The gorgeous black and
yellow regent-bird takes some beating, but I think the
rare blood-bird,which science clumsily names sanguin-
eous honeyeater, runs it very close in the beauty compe-
tition. I have met with this bird twice only, each
time in the neighborhood of Sydney. My first speci-
men was feeding among the flaming red blossoms of
a coral tree, and the glossy scarlet of bird and
flower were almost undistinguishable. Tn the second
instance the bird sat perfectly still among the dense
foliage of a camphor laurel, a spot of vivid color in
an oasis of dark green. The blood-bird is nomadic
in habit and confines itself chiefly to the eastern
coastal districts of Australia. Its call-note is musi-
cal, but there’s no song. Has any abo. found a
blood-bird’s egg? Another ornate bird rarely seen is
the mistletoe-bird, or Australian flower-pecker, which
is attired in a glossy steel-blue coat with scarlet and
white vest; but the coloring of the female is much
duller. Sage-brushes bordering on the southern sea
coast of N. S. Wales are haunted by the mistletoe-
bird in summer, when the shrubs are crowned with
white, scented flowers. Sometimes the pendulous
nest is built in a clump of mistletoe, in which, too,
the owner feeds when the parasite plant is in flower.
The home is a dainty thing of fine bark decorated
externally with mosses. From the swallow-like color-
ing of the bird’s back and wings it is sometimes
known as mistletoe swallow.
“N.J.”: Can’t make out how all the rab-
bits are not smothered in infancy. Before they reach
the kitten stage and are able to battle for them-
selves the mother (perhaps the buck also does his
bit) ere going out shopping covers in the entrance to
the home with dirt, leaves, etc., and makes it look
like the surface around. No doubt this is a precau-
tion against iguanas, wild cats, man, etc. Now how
do the young rabbits get air during their entomb-
ment? I have watched the doe return after hours of
absence, and she simply scrapes away the blind. I
have caught the whole family after mother’s day
out and found the young quite lively and
none the worse for their burial. Ineiden-
tally, I have also seen a church the walls of
which were cracked to such an extent you could
place two fingers in the crevices. The churchwardens
blamed rabbits for making dugouts beneath the foun-
dations.
* * * *
“K. 0.”: When riding near the boundary
fence of a back run on the north-west coast of Tas-
mania I came across a horrible example of the
cruelty of the casual white trapper. Kangaroo-hemp
snares had been set; but the trapper had not gone
round his snares, and no less than 15 contained the
skeleton remains of wallabies and kangaroos which
had been caught by the leg and had died of starva-
tion or from mortification set up by the tightening
of the hemp.
* * * *
“Te Whare” : Our No. 1 birds in point of
perfection and elegance of form are the bell-magpies.
The pied bell-magpie, erroneously called mutton-bird,
is fairly common in open timber on the south-eastern
coast of N. S. Males. Wild figs, berries and insects
form its. chief diet. It has a loud, clear call-note
which rings like a clarion and approximates to
curr-a-wong.” I have never met with a specimen
far inland, but /he grey bell-magpie, usually called
grey magpie, is common enough, for instance, in
timber bordering on the Monaro (N.S.W.) Plains,
there is a third and rare species, known as the
black-winged bell-magpie. I’ve found this bird occa-
sionally on the South Coast, in companv with the
pied variety. A maize-grower of my acquaintance
stewed some hell-magpies which he shot as they were
s ripping the grain off his cobs. He voted them
tougher than the drum-sticks of a blackfellow.
TOUGH— NO NAME FOR IT!
MIKE: “ Sure an ’ that was a tough job Oi
had last, Pat.”
P AT: “Tough, Moike! Bejabers you'd ha'
bin a dead man if you’d bin wurkin'
there still.”
“Bddyson”: George Arthur and Wally
Dodd were Bendigo miners put to an unpleasant job
in the ladder shaft, doctoring the lifts. The mine
was 60 Oft. deep, and the two men were kept swarm-
ing about on perpendicular iron ladders in a, dark,
dripping, cold, drafty, slab-sided 3 x 6 box 200
yards long, reared on end, with a fall of from four
to five hundred feet yearning below them all the
time. When they arrived at a spot where a joint
demanded attention, they rigged a staging and got
AMBIGUOUS.
MR. BADGER : “Good day, Mrs. Tadger. This is my friend Mr. Dodger. Pm just o-showin'
’im round the sights o' the place."
to business. It was while astride one of these stag-
ings that Wally Dodd finally made up his mind that
he was sick. He had had his doubts for two hours
past. “Do you think you can make the surface?”
his mate asked. Wally thought he could—just about.
He started up the iron ladders clamped to the
smooth, slimy side of the shaft, and Arthur followed
on as close to his heels as he could stick. Two
hundred feet from the top Wally made a report. “My
God,” he said, “I can’t do itl I’m done, man! I’m
going! I’m go ”He went, collapsing on to his
mate below, and Arthur had just time to close in on
him. For a time Arthur held Dodd across his arms
between himself and the ladder, yelling all he knew.
But yelling is not much good in 600 ft. of shaft, with
the braceman perched far above the mouth, and
Dodd was slipping limply down between Arthur’s
arms. Arthur still yelled. It is not easy to yell
effectively in such circumstances. Try it. Try it
for about 11 years. That was how long it seemed
to Arthur before, with bursting muscles, torn finger-
nails, and a spine like a red-hot iron bar, he had an
intimation that suspicions were stirring below. Two
men were chasing up the ladders from No. 2 level.
One took part of the burden 'of Arthur, while the
other chocked in a temporary staging. Then a
couple of slabs were knocked out, and Dodd was
pushed through on top of the waiting cage in the
hauling shaft, and he and Arthur were taken to the
surface. The rescuer, with black and blue biceps,
and three nails almost torn from his left hand!
called to see his mate on the Sunday. Wally was in
bed. ‘Well, ole man, how’re ’ee cornin’ on?” Arthur
T I, pretty so ' so ’’’ re P 3ied the invalid
faintly. Then: “Do you know you spoiled that new
flannel I was wearin’ ?”
* * * #
“H.V.E.”: Has any abo. seen the knot
snipe ( Tringa canutus ) lately? A few years ago
these grey-brown world-wanderers came to Wapengu
nlet, South Coast of N. S. Wales, in thousands. They
feed mostly on small red sand-worms common about
salt lakes and estuaries. They breed chiefly in Siberia,
hke the so-called Australian (or Latham’s) snipe
which annually visits Australia to feed. Some sum-
mers find these delectable birds crowding about
Cathcart swamp, near Tantawanglo mountain, between
the Monaro and Bega districts. Then seasons pass
and never a feather is seen there. About the end of
summer this snipe packs up and departs for nuptial
purposes to Japan and Siberia. When about to
migrate the birds rise perpendicularly to a grert
jouSev The Sh -°J !T line on their tremendous
journey. The sickle-billed Australian or sea-curlew
also marries and breeds in Siberian tundras and other
parts of Asia; but the painted snipe, now growing
exceedingly rare, is always with us. The great bird
man Gould tart ft „„ Upper H
most of the fat swamp lands in which it bred have
been drained. The egg of this bird is much
treasured by collectors. Gould took one from the
body of a female, but found none in Mtu .
“Merrigal”: Though the usual breeding
period of the black swan is from August to Decem-
ber, there is no by-law on the subject. In extra-
wet seasons, at the head of the Willandra billabong,
Hay district (N.S.W.), nests have been discovered in
June; at Port Augusta (S.A.) as early as April;
and on the Gascoyne and Lyndon rivers (W.A.) in
May, June and July. The nest is mostly twigs or
rushes, scantily lined with fluff from the” bosoms of
the parent birds, and from four to six eggs ordinarily
constitute a batch. Occasionally you find eight in
the bedroom. The sable beauties prefer the southern
to any ether part of the continent, and one of
their pet camping-grounds is Moulting Lagoon, on
the east coast of Tasmania. Some years since the
caretaker of Centennial Park, Sydney, was pleas-
antly surprised to find that a travelling mob had
made a lying-in home on one of the swamps under
his care, and there a squad of cygnets was in due
course introduced to him.
“Play”; In the early ’eighties, when the
news came to the stations up along the Darling that
the rabbits had crossed the Murray from Pine Plains
and reports were circulated of the havoc that was
being wrought, owners of holdings be-
came alarmed and men were put on to
tackle the invaders as soon as they ap-
peared. Rabbiters were paid Is.” per
scalp, besides £1 a week and rations,
soon this pay was reduced to 2d. per
scalp, without wages or rations, and
trappers still did very well. Then the
Government took a hand, paid part of
the scalp-money and put on inspectors.
Money was poured out, but bunny in-
creased and multiplied and spread right
across S. Australia into Westralia in a
very few years. By that time I believe
tie attempt to pay for his removal was
abandoned in N. S. Wales. I know S.
us. gave it up. Then, somehow, the
KL 42T tt'Zi ft-S S.V2
" e '*■ -
ii * * * *
, •' Here’s my contribution to the
ep an versus horse-team argument. When Eroni’s
NS S W) n ,ntrT ie t 0m ’ ed the S ° Uth Coast
f . )ln * he wet tlmes of 1909, in turning from
lieir fourTol' 0 * at Tilba of
their four-horse waggons became bogged, with a
rout -h j crushed aga . nst root 7 a ’J lth
tne van-drivers arrived thpv y,;+„n ~ ' As
ahead, until the string hauling at the fi.T" 6 h ° rSeS
long as from here to peace dir Th P , 6 WaS 33
erable smashage of harness and +J h f WSS COnsld '
have shifted a cathedral but the/ 116 languag ' e would
of the semi-subme7ged S "° "T™ 1
slouched up. He arrana-ed h' « T ,t the cle P hant
neck behind the show , flabby shonl(ler and
tall and pushed L *“ his
and slash on to Arm srouifd. 4 thto ”* h the roots
“Moobitta”: In the early ’Bo's the con-
tractors’ train reached the Government Gums
(Farina), 200 miles north of Port Augusta, and
Brother Binghi came in to look at the Baldwin
engine-—from a safe distance. Each blast of the
siren would make the Binghis jump like a kangaroo.
They would usually stand, in a line, and at each
spasm they’d look along to see if any brother was
missing. When I arrived I could see that they were
tied up in a knot about something or other, and in-
quired from old Flourbag what he thought of that
pfeller. “By Cri, that pfeller walk about all right!
But what name that pfeller grunt (whistle) like that
one? Him big-pfeller prighten me.” I explained
that engine wongi (talk) longa white pfeller that
him going walk-about. Flourbag wanted to know
why white pfeller Towed that one to yabber big
one like that (loud), and how did white pfeller
know what him wongi about. I told him some
yarn, and asked him why blaekpfeller didn't make
nanto (horse) all same as that one. Flourbag laughed.
“No fear! Sposen’ blaekpfeller make ’im that one,
’im been chasem blaekpfeller.” Later he confided to
me that he thought white man was a dam fool to
make a thing that would run over him if he didn’t
hop out of the way. Binghi went back to camp
pondering over the stupidity of a white man building
such a monster and then giving it tobacco to smoke.
I saw Flourbag some days after, miles away from
the line, looking a bit scared. At last he blurted
out in half-native lingo and the other half pigeon-
English: “Mine thinkit that pfeller ooh-ooh no
plurry good. Him bin point bone (make sick)
alonga Murioota Wowrie (black gin), and mine
thinkit tumble down dead! You gib it bulloeky
all a time—him bin all right. That plurry damn
ooh-ooh no good. Mine bin go alonga yabber
Misser Kopperamanna (Mission Station). If gin
die, mine tell it Misser Jesus point bone longa that
one ooh-ooh. So you bin look out.” If anyone
should get sick in Binghi’s camp they always attri-
BEREFT.
TOURIST: “Who’s the oldest inhabitant
round these parts?"
COCKY : “'There ain't none. TV old cove
died last Toosday."
days 'after viewing' theXeJs rf"
trz rrv the *i?s?«Es:
ssrii s
,o ■-«fii?3r. c st's» h ss ,te - *°
PRO PATRIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill had been tried for his offence,
And “Guilty 1” all the jury said.
Poor Bill, relieved of his suspense
On that point, raised his battered head
A head none would regard as quite
A thing of beauty and of light.
He had an ill-cut, granite ehiv,
A purple jowl, a piggish eye.
’Twas proved that William chose to live
By lurking for the passers-by.
Their skulls he cracked upon the roads,
And then relieved them of their loads.
The Judge a few words spoke; and “Please,’
Accused replied, “1 hope you know
That at such troubled times as these,
When sore my country’s burdens grow,
’Twould be a shame to say that she
Should keep a hulkin' bloke like me!”
victoria.
BILLY T.


o
RUBBER
MILLS
m.
4* * ' V
U
LARSES'*
'• -.-
SOUTHERN
HEMIiPM I
») br.ki -
rn
//■if] Ji
V ■
make Everything in Rubber.
NO AUSTRALIAN NEED SPEND HIS
MONEY ON IMPORTED RUBBER GOODS.
The Australian Mills illustrated—employ-
ing over 1,600 hands—can supply all your
requirements, and give you fresher and
better goods, and at a lesser cost than the
imported article. Why send your money
out of the country when by specifying
DUNLOP RUBBER GOODS
you keep Australian workmen employed,
and at the same time obtain a better
article and greater satisfaction. We manu-
facture Cycle, Motor and Vehicle Tyres;
Mining and Engineering Rubber Goods;
Rubber Belting; Rubber Heels; Mats and
Matting; Hot Water Bags; Waterproof
Garments and Rugs; Tennis, Golf and
Lacrosse Balls; Football Bladders;
Handle Grips; Wringer Rollers; Milking
Machine Requisites; Hose Garden,
Suction, Brewers, etc.; Medical Goods, etc.
See that the Goods purchased bear our brand—
it’s your Guarantee of Service. Lists on application
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.
im
J>
Most people find that it takes a very little while to wear down a
leather heel, thus necessitating frequent repairs. They fail to realise
that a soft tough rubber
Dunlop Keel
gives months of wear and much extra comfort and ease—due to
absence of vibration and concussion—at a cost that is
eventually cheaper than leather Heels. Unless you
are a “ Dunlop” user, you cannot appreciate
what wearing these resilient Heels means.
Why not get your bootmaker to fit a pair ?
The cost is small, and out of all proportion
to the saving and comfort you will
derive from their use. Be sure and have
leather removed the thickness of Rub-
ber Heel—and specify “Dunlop” Brand.
VARIOUS STYLES A ALL SIZES-LEADINC BOOT STORES.
DUNLOP BUBBKR CO. ALL STATES « MX
-'XIO
A SOUND PROPOSITION FOR
MOTORISTS!
Full value for your money —should satisfy any motorist.
Some car owners do not get full value, I/ecause nearly
half their money goes in tariff and other charges. Tyre
cost is the heaviest item in the upkeep of a car, and it is
in that direction we can help you. Our White Tread
DUNLOP TYRES
have no superior in the world for Quality and Con-
struction, and on top of that we put more material
into our covers and tubes than is embodied in imported
goods—simply because the rough roads in this country
call for same. Light tyres mean a short life and heavy
running cost, whereas Dunlops give ample weight, ensur-
ing service and economy in upkeep. The cost of Dunlops
is considerably lower than any first grade imported
tyre—owing to absence of heavy tariff charges—and if
you only got the same mileage you would still be the
gamer, but you will find that Dunlops mean more
miles —their extra thickness ensures it. On top of these
advantages you support Australian industry and keep
your money in the country. Surely the above warrants
specifying Dunlops when you again require tyres.
STOCKED ALL
GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER
CO.
All States & N.Z.
\
-
*
Why Vehicle Owners Prefer
Dunlop Solid Rubber Tyres!
These Vehicle Tyres enjoy the confidence
and support of tens of thousands of owners,
simply because there has been no other
tyre to approach them for value and service
during the last 15 years. They stand
alone for Quality of Rubber, Wear and
Dependability. When you fit either the
“ Dunlop” or “Oceanic” Brand, you can rely
on thousands of miles of comfortable
driving—free from jarring and vibration.
You have years of economical service ahead
—without trouble. The Dunlop electrically
welded “wired-on” system of attachment
is only one of the advantages you gain by
specifying “Dunlop” or “Oceanic” Brand.
Fitted from £3 10s. a pair and upwards.
LIST ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States
and N.Z.


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
doe 3 NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE’S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, as it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
*.(*!.*
\X\l//s
»}/
\h
\
i
m
Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
Pnce 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to-
W - °- HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA
Branch Offi ce ,_
N S W • Nz .
14.
“H.E.R.”: Why does the screen heroine,
when she wants to demonstrate that she is a
good girl, hnd a big bunch of roses and
stick her nose into it, or else go out and talk
to an imaginary bird in a tree? If there are
no roses or trees, she wags her head foolishly
and talks to a dog or a cat. Are these acts
necessary to portray girlish innocence on the
screen? I know a good girl (the one I
married), and you ought to hear her senti-
ments and see her face when she sees cer-
tain birds on the tree in our backyard. ( As
for the dog, she talks to him with her feet.
“Jwosp” : According to the J.C.W. repre-
sentatives in Maoriland, increased sea
freights are hitting the Firm so hard that the
chiefs are considering the establishment of
local stocks of dresses, and the
possibility of staging shows in the Dominion.'
The Australasian premiere of “Baby Mine”
showed that the Ricketty Isles can supply
the goods and that Australian Bob Greigcan
produce comedies. “Baby Mine,” by the way,
was cast three times by the Firm, and each
time it got heaved over at the eleventh hour.
Greig twice was picked for Jimmy Jinks,
and now has actually played it. He is the
sole survivor of the three fields. His wife,
Beatrice Holloway, played Zoie in the initial
production in Christchurch, and got enough
praise and bouquets to satisfy any actress.
Report of the death of Magnus Laing-
Meason of Maoriland came from the Admi-
ralty recently. The young chestnut-headed
pianist had studied scales for years in
Vienna and Paris, and was beginning to
make his musical way. when the Prussian
plot ripened and he went to do his bit.
Despite a weak chest he took on a sea job
and passed out with pneumonia in the Admi-
ralty hospital at Southend.
“Jwosp”: “Peg-Leg” (B. 24/5/T7) is
over-winding when he deduces obtuseness in
Enid Bennett because t>o,oooft. of her first
film netted only 10,000 ft. Almost every pic-
ture tells a story of a big discard, many of
them bigger than Enid Bennett’s. With an
old-hand cast like Griffith’s, “The Birth of a
Nation” left the cameras with over 120,000 ft.
It got into the projecting machine with under
13,000 ft.
“S.T.S.”: For me the Australian “Bun-
yrp’ pantomime is badly damaged by the
children s song, which is a sort of backbone
to it, teaching them that a monster will get
them if they are out in the dark. I have
noticed a tendency to the same thing even
in the work of the gentle Renfolds. It is a
cheap effect to get. It is so pathetically
easy to frighten kiddies, so fataffly. easy to
ftn idea that will cause real misery for
years. An inundation was my special terror,
poison that of another kid. nightmare-spiders
in a cupboard haunted a third—afll the work
of nurses prompted by the Devil. And it
really is devilish to bring into <our country
the bogey idea from cold northern lands
where night might well be dangerous. (Pro-
bably'real wolves were the originals of the
bogey idea.) The English Prayer Book, com-
piled in the witch-ridden times of James I ,
™*T! ed t ’ le theory U P to this day that
npH.Vr ° tlm °u of perils anil dangers,” a
see msl° p }' a - y f , at ! ou t and to be thankful to
alive I " J’ aB ? ldy the idea Fas been kept
v , by the Jgnorant black., revived bv
lankee song-writers who sham nigger senti-
nthev “ -n h “ s duklren that Something-or-
In 4nse4r get l° U lf you do » ’t watch out.”
he il- i Y hera to ° m ucb. sun is apt to
time of Siffr troable ’. night should be the
the nl'iee enjoyment, and outdoors
traim fiiia °A tai .“ lt i , If y «u find an Aus-
tralian child afraid of the da.rk, vou can he
certain that there is in the background an
careless? rS ° n either malid ofSinaßy
musical 1 comedv .' dm itting that the average
show is tinkered with by fhe''^ 5 ' T S ‘™!
two tsuts
in this way P i'i™ S been mauled
Lady”—quite" a nasSbW,? 3 of Tlle Pi "k
nothing too insulting “an of^ 88^
son responsible fr.,. ri, • P* J said of the per-
tripiest of ditties “IPs polati T on of that
from Home,” of ’which Ml Lo PS,Long Way
su ch a mournful mouthfuV “w Ix) . ve • make&
Posed to be a o'irblv vf? 1, Mln me is sup-
French somi-demi m d n m.* P 1 Q tati ve of the
•ng for a couple of /If ’ ' and aft er disport-
with a purple mist «l,! k a P in k vampire
the proceedings" in the TT ]i° W ? 3 to interrupt
and Satyrs with a nmS ° f the Nymph «
muvver, with incidental V . f anent hom e and
written in ink dZS ii afe , re nces to letters
Lady” music does not S/.V*® 18 - The “Pink
but it has a lctly . r ® call Rossini,
makes this number sound , sp rightlmess that
the wailing of a ‘lo«r by i com P a rison like
mght on the Old Man Vi S ° ul ™ and e r ing by
ver’s Dream into the L 'miV T c ° dra S Den-
Quick Wallingford” w ol ym ddle . af “ Get p ich
ulous. But, apparent!v d o not be . more rid i ( ’-
Love discovered that sE e Since Min me
Dol l it has been the n 2 pore Bl ’oken
provide her with at ° f the Firm to
tor bathos in ° PPOrtUnity
Business, Bobbery, etc
“The Collector’’: The debts that debtors
show the least compunction in not paying
are those contracted for intangible or imper-
manent things. Furniture, hardware, cloth-
ing: these are present, palpable—they are
constant mementoes of the debt. But bread,
beef, groceries, rent, money borrowed : these
are consumed, evanescent, impalpable, gone!
The hardened debtor lets these debts stand
without a qualm; in fact, in time he will
make himself believe he never owed them.
For the same reason undertakers’ bills are
difficult to collect. A funeral is a passing
thing; the deceased, if not forgotten, is in-
dubitably “gone”: remembrance of the bill
is apt to fade. A recent debtor in my hands
was a very well-seasoned one: he owed
everyone, from the butcher to the barber,
as a normal thing. Then his wife died and
he cheerfully owed the doctor for her illness
—the bill, I mean, of course —and the under-
taker for her obsequies. He married again,
and in about two years the second wife died
also. He cast round for an undertaker once
more. But now the worm turned—meaning,
of course, the undertaker, and speaking fig-
uratively. He took the matter to his trade-
protection association, which decided that,
though it might stand being owed for the
burial of one wife, it drew the line at a man
who made a habit of owing for wives’
funerals. It gave the bereaved clearly to
understand that for the burial of No. 2 and
for all subsequent wives *terms would be
strictly “cash in advance.”
“Glenny” : An unhealthy side-shoot of the
American “commission house” system, men-
tioned as being likely to make its appear-
ance in Australia (B. 7/6/’l7), has already
been worked in Melbourne. Instead of the
face-value of 30- or 60-day invoices being
paid (less a small percentage) by the com-
mission-house on behalf of business firms
buying from manufacturers, these people
used to work between retailers and house-
holders. The idea in its big form is all right,
of course, just as banking is; but its petty
practice offers too many opportunities for
the employment of methods used by the
financial shark in dealing with pinched wage-
earners.
“Bail”: During the turmoil over the bulki-
est cheque handled in exchange for a cow,
let me introduce Jean, a 3f-year-old Ayr-
shire, who in a recently-concluded official
12-months’ test gave 96871 b. milk = 4cwt.
2qr. 22|lb. butter. At Is. 3d. per lb. this
represents £32 17s. 71d., said to be a Ma
State record for an animal of Jean’s age.
* * * *
In Melbourne sausages are now sold in
two ways—by the pound and by the
spruiker.
“Gham”: Bill Gardiner (B. 31/5/’l7) will
have to slaughter many more rabbits before
he equals' Tom Kelly’s cheque for one night’s
business. Operating betwen Mullaley and
Tambar (N.S.W.) he got a tally of
1200. Kelly sells skins only, and this trifle
produced £8 6s. Sd.
“Benno”: Billjim got some of his own
back when he agreed, for a packet of fags, to
write a sign to attract the custom of the
boys for the copper-colored cafe-keeper at
Cairo. That day there appeared outside the
establishment:—•
THIS IS A—— OP A JOINT.
TER’BLE CROOK TACK.
The native was extremely proud of Bill’s
handicraft —evidenced by the great promi-
nence he gave the sign on the front of his
hash-foundry.
“Enrobso”: A word with “Murka,” who
advocated the introduction of electric-light in
suburban trains. The other night I rode in
a carriage so fitted. We stopped at six
stations; so did the glims. Every time the
train slowed down the lights began to fade
away and die, and they did not recover their
intensity until a fair speed was gamed. 1 tie
system works admirably on long-distance
trains, but on suburban runs bring your own
candle! # ,
“Briner”: Money in shipping? T think
so The French captured the German
steamer Walkure, and took her to Tahiti.
Admiral Spree’s cruisers bombarded the
place and a few shells hit the Walkure. She
was sunk— voluntarily. Put up to auction, a
San Francisco firm bought her tor ibUUU.
She was raised, loaded with copra, taken to
San Francisco, coopered up and sold foi
£140,000.
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: Recent mention of an original
shopwindow notice in Bourke-street, con-
cerning a “life-size landscape” (I». 7/0/’IT ),
recalls the work of another original soul.
Before the war began, George Williams, a
Malvern (Vic.) picture-framer and print-
seller, had a notice in his window : Aero-
planes Repaired.” That announcement drew
Is. 9d. worth of my custom first time.
Williams, by the way, was a large, round,
pinkish, waggish citizen, and a patient,
capable and indefatigable instructor in rifle-
practice. The last time I saw him—a long
while ago now —he was putting the finishing
touches on his business’s toilet and settling
his family in a safe spot preparatory to
going on a long journey, crammed into an
outsize suit of khaki. He is in France now.
“0.L.”: A burglar pal of mine has ex-
ploded another of my beliefs. He declares
that, to get through a glass window, he has
to take one of two risks—either smash the
window right in and make a big noise, or
use a glass-cutter on a small section and
push that in, thereby making a small noise.
In fiction your burglar just sticks a piece of
treacled brown paper over the glass, cuts
around it and then pulls the glass out, mak-
ing no noise at all. My burglar says this
isn’t really a method because it can’t be
done. When cut the glass “dovetails,” he
says, and it is impossible to drag the debris
through the rest of the pane. Any other
burglar care to give his experiences,?
“Fleecer”: A Sydney shop was recently
showing a line of ladies’ “three-decker” boots,
made in Melbourne and fairly priced at 355.
They sold well. Within a few days the same
line was displayed in plush-lined boxes,
marked at £3 10s. And fatuous buyers
rushed in and paid double prices for what
they imagined were imported boots—a delu-
sion carefully fostered by the “Australian”
salesmen! Patriotism? Two-thirds of the
people, of Australia don’t know what the
word means when they go out shopping.
“Ken”: When the caretaker opened the
front door he found a lanky Billjim attack-
ing one of the brass business plates with a
screwdriver. “’Ere, wotcher doin’ there?”
the little man shouted aggressively, shoving
his mutton-chop whiskers round the door.
Bill rocked on unsteady legs while he pointed
at the plate. “That firm’s promised me a
job (hie) if T come back (hie), so I’m
takin their addresh. A bloke might lose his
mem’ry (hie) at thish blariky war.”
* * *
“Pass Book ' : Judge Docker at Darling-
lmrst Sessions lately sentenced a defaulting
teller from the N. S. Wales Government Sav-
ings Bank to five years’ peal servitude. The
clerk was charged with stealing £14,000, and
curtly pleaded guilty. This case, coming
after other defalcations, not so serious but
bad enough, calls for some explanation. So
far. the authorities have preserved a lofty
silence as to how it was possible for the bank
to lose £14,000 and not miss it. The loss, it
is said, was discovered only when the tliief
announced it himself, and the amount was
only £14,000 because there was only £14.000
for him to take. The credit of the institu-
tion with the Government of N. S. Wales
behind can no doubt stand repeated shocks
ol this nature ; but there are several classes
ot small depositors who will take alarm at
seeing their money vanish like this. As long
as it is necessary to employ human beings in
banks so long will frauds take place- but
surely it should not be possible for a bank-
£ V,' hplp h ! msel J to all the hard cash
ei I,r TV S ? S for several consecutive
weeks without his actions inviting mildly
adverse comment. The Government which
guarantees the bank ought not to be satisfied
until it receives an assurance from some
auditor that a repetition of this
class of fraud has been made, if not impossi-
ble, at any rate difficult.
<4 *
21 : £ propos country barbers (B.
?x/t)/ 17). Some years ago at Tunmt the
barber was the local bailiff. He had no
. sa^? on - hut carried his razor and scissors
m h» pocket, just as Brother Coffee £up
A'C Government, after consulting every
expei t in sight, lias decided to test local
stringy-bark for wood-blocking, and proposes
to put up a mill at Ivuitpo, where here is
much timber of little use for other purposes
S -. Aus - wants 50 million blocks (present
price nearly 3d. each) in the near future and
a strip of much-used road from Adelaide to
test Xfes a,r “ dj ' ■SSS’IS
,i;f/rr thy •sr r V«
apiece, Somehow it never seems to”ho °
custom of the trade to label wool as cotton
oi leather as cardboard r rnn. c P*-ton
advertisement that has been most- a species of
ably overlooked. most linaccount-
* * * #
(B F 7/6V’l7) Tt that V Font b fl m n fi “ ally notified
Melbourne’s Smellville it 'mav - S * no longer
merchants to learn that thc /fß ll^^? j
trades area is now r n T 1 noxious '
the Government has prepared f Where
body desiring to be a nuisance A a th*VtT
sewage farm is at Werribee rim w e State
down the line, those who estabSh
perfumeries at Sweet- T a ta tlleir
suitable company. - a ' e rton will be in
DRY FRUIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dried fruits are quiet.”— Market report.
Hot is the sun and languid all the shade
(last by the high and dusty poplar trees.
The grass is brown, the lingering lilies fade,
The summer-bitten orchard knows no ease.
Vet here is silence. Not a straying foot
Trips through the scorched weed matted on the
ground ;
And, parched and dry, the weary, wrinkled fruit
Clings to the withered bough without a sound.
Dry fruit, dry fruit—and still the year goes
round !
Here in the sombre place of merchandise
Where souls are bartered at the mart of toil
Sheep's wool to wear and bread the easy price,
And a last bed in six poor feet of soil —-
Loud voices call to chaffer wares of trade;
The c lash of barrows makes a jarring sound;
And in men’s hearts the fine thoughts parch and fade,
Sapless as weeds upon the heat-seared ground.
Dry thoughts, dry fruit —and still the world goes
round !
Loves of the merry time of moon and spring,
When all the days kissed gladness on the mouth,
When small birds sang and clouds on whitest wing
Floated, breeze fondled, to the laughing south!. .. .
The stars have all gone out, the night is still;
Life walks dull-eyed in listless grey begowned;
The leaping pulses and the eager will
Sink, sobered, without sigh or sob or sound.
Dry loves, dry fruit —and still life’s wheel goes
round !
Pluck me three starlit sprays of fairy thorn!
I will not walk the way of sage and clod.
Dear girl, the mart that has us in its scorn
Has never felt the wind that blows from God,
With fadeless whispers of his mirth’s desire....
The stars swim out, their spangles all unbound;
The merry moon has danced the sea to fire ;
Dry, wrinkled fruits about us make no sound.
Dry fruits, dry hearts —but laughter-time comes
round !
tf.s.w.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
A SUCCESSFUL FAILURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a fat and prosperous man ;
He smoked his pipe and drank his beer,
And laughed as only fellows can
Who have no longer cause to fear
Outrageous “slings and arrows” here.
“I was an actor once,” he said,
“And that is how 1 made my pile.”
1 looked at him and shook my head.
“That is, my friend, a tale of guile—
Pros, do not prosper in this style.”
“I was an actor!” he declared.
“The people threw hard things at me,
And that is why I have been spared,
As you and all mankind may see,
To wallow in prosperity.
“They threw potatoes —threw a lot.
Said I: ‘l’ll sow them. Here I stop!’
Next year I planted all I got. .. .
Weil, now, I own the whole hilltop,
And all of it is under crop!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


BRITISH
THOMSOW
HOUSTON C°L
RUGBY
ENGLAND
V
:A-
-111 II II 1 1 « < 111 l Itlf
03
A
IIHHMf
kllillltf
i" | niiiliim
r >
"liiin
\>
Jw<iiiiin~„J
<b -V
3?
S.I
-a^
'•w-
V
5*
\
s J «*r
I
£s^
a»
\vA
.*>
W/M *
I
fT - N
1 ' /
i
&
\
W
*Zim
V
T>
b
SsSS*:
X
n
Ilium
GENERAL
ELECTRIC C?
NEW YORK
INSTALL A G.E. ELECTRIC RADIATOR.
No doubt you’re surprised to see me as a Father. This is my one and only, brought up entirely on Electricity ! I want to give a
word of advice to the “up every morning— at 2. a.m.”—with the “hopeful” brand of Fathers—poor beggars! It’s pretty rotten pacing
up and down on winter mornings—the child yelling, and you shivering all over. BUT—install aG. E. ELECTRIC RADIATOR and note
the difference. Your parental pacing becomes quite a pleasure. No more shivering—just mellow warmth switched on at your desire-
soothing the child and cheering yourself !
Another indispensable luxury is a B.T H. bedside reading lamp—it keeps the wife quiet—if not the child. What more could man want?
Take my advice and avail yourself of these comforts by communicating with the
(Australian • General - Electric - G?
WENTWORTH A v SYDNEY. OOF QUEEN &■ LITTLE COLLINS Si MELBOURNE.
(Representing (British. Thomson Houston. O? jCtd. (Rugby, Vng/and
ctj GENERAL ELECTRIC C 9. NEW YORK.U SA. a


SILVER,
£2
GOLD.
-£7llOl-
A. Saunders’ Double-case Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless Watch, full chronometer balance,
patent non-magnetic time spring, accurate
and reliable, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4, £5. Solid gold, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO. £l5. £2O. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
boat-shape Ring,
18et. gold,
£7/10/-
Smaller diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent’s
pure double cut
diamond Ring,
18ct. gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’''pure double cut diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, jewelled lever movement, £3/ 107-
Others, £4, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO. All guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS, Diamond Merchant.
A. Saunders’ 3
double c-t dia-
mond circle spray
Brooch, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Cross-over Ring,
18et. gold, £lO.
Smaller diamonds,
£7/10/- »
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Ring, 18ct. gold,
A. Saunders’ Diamonds and Ruby Brooch,
1 Set. gold, £5,
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£3O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Ring, £lO.
We Forward All
Orders Post Free.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
cluster Ring, 18et.
gold, £2O, £25.
Diamonds & rubies
or sapphires,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ pure double cut diamonds or rubies and
sapphires Gold Bracelet. gold, £lO.
Diamonds and olivines, £l2/10/
All diamonds, £l5/-
A. Saunders’ diamonds
and pearls Necklace,
15ct. gold, £lO. __ All
diamonds, £1,5.
».jprggtagcKiß
MAS
a
A animders’ diamonds and pearls, rubies or sapphires
Bracelet, 15ct. gold, £7/10/-
*- $r
A. Saunders’ three pure white double cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, 15ct. gold, £lO, £l2/10/-, £lo-
Five diamonds, £l5, £2O, £2,3. Single diamond,
£3/10/-, £5/10/-, £7, according to size of
diamonds.
A. Saunders’ 8
double cut diamond
circle Brooch,
15ct. gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
half-hoop Ri n
18ct. gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Gross-over King,
18ct. gold, £2O.
Smaller diamonds,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ pure double cut diamond Bar
Brooch, 15et. gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
cluster Ring, 18ct.
gold, £lO.
Send for Illustrated
Gift Book, Free.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
half-hoop Ring,
18ct. gold,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway
Station).
SILVER,
25/-
GOLD,
£3
W-
m
1
$2
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hunting Key-
less Watch, jewelled lever move-
ment, compensation balance.
Silver, 25/-, 30/-, £2, £2/10/'-.
9et. gold, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/'-,
£5. 18ct. gold, £B/10/-,
£lO, £l5. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ gent’s
pure double cut
diamond Ring,
18ct, gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Cross-over Ring,
18ct. gold,
£5/10/-
Diamonds and
rubies, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double cut diamond Bai
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Isct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, set
with olivines, redstones or pearls, £l2/10/-.
£l5, £l7/10/-. Diamonds and rubies, £2O. All
diamonds, £3O, £4O, £5O, according to size of
diamonds.
Kill those Germs
Germs cause Sore and Husky Throats.
EVANS’ Pastilles.
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
EVANS, SONS, LBSCHER A WEBB, Limited . LONDON.
REMEMBER!
T
thb sear raw material
■HONEBT MANUFACTURE.
will OUTWEAR the
HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED AS
SUBSTITUTES
SEE
HORROCKSES’”
ON
SELVEDGE
YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 19X5 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly's Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. E’owler’s Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
1 ortune-Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
op the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants)
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford) ‘ iod
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses 1/6
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photol
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins’
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.’
m
%
a
m
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK ”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
it 400 lustrations. 1248 pa^es
IT IS I REE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS fu “ ’
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered Ri nfe S i, U r, P
Suage, a thousand questions that occur to the a "‘
and old, but about which they feel a delict nIVT"*
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable into”
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it- a vppv
superior guide to the action of men and worsen both fn and
out of marriage No man or woman who Spates a bright
Ure ff a " (J W 1 to enjoy married life in its P fuliest spnse
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived
wor? m ?Kfl{X b^ d oia
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS De post ™
BOOKSELLER TO THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Prop. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
oJoo Fo S™ telling cards—love,
BLSINLSS, t DIURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Solderinq, Brazing, Gas-Fitting etc
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards,
i/3. 1 hat Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post 1/3
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-"
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette 1/- Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise/, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car
penter. 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightninc
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for ' ,
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Datf
Pasted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Spfak
ing Made Easy, 1/3 nested. Kelly Gano of
shrangers, illustrations and Dortrait*? i / •
post i/2. Electricity Made Simple (new) 4/V
Self Instructor: Every Man 'His Own ScHom
1/8 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy:
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3 Liff
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDoncxff
Topped the Score, & Other Verses 1/3
French Self Taught, 1/2 Wank' 3 ‘
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powmsop
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
Heptameron and many others, all at 3/6 2
posted. Lee's Priceless Recces 1/6 nosted
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Ltff tv P °m3w
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks. l/2.‘ M
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and sav,
your cash. W~Established 25 Years
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking .
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
v- Pm. u mi g *s
genuine, 1/3. Old Rush q„. ARUS> 1 /* Sappho
Milford's Midwife's Handbook A? 1/13 Po&t. Dr
trations, 2/6. Aristotlf 3/fi° k, A 92 P^ actlcal Ulus
don's Poems, complete pA^ *l Lindsay Gor
1/3. Guide’ to Auc-noNEERiNo^A^^ P^MISTRY
tory Court of Essnsn iT ’ Secret His
wk,„, i L "™«
can's Freemasonry Exposfd v/T,,? 8 ’ V 6, Mor
New Edition, 1/3 posted vp’w to aB Degrees
Bd. posted. 7/6 post S.’ Dictionary,
Bd., 2/-. How To Rpin h!!; Works,
posted. Chevasse's Vdvice to a WTfe °’ }'f
Bread and Biscuit Bakfrs *»,r, n o E ’ P° s t ed '
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's mt™ Sugar -Boilers
Bennarr Macfadden's Works 1 aH f Kj k V c 2 P° sted
Fruits of Philosophy, is post n ‘v 5/6 P° sted
tions and Readings 1/3 k™, 00 New Kecita
Cure, 1/2 posted' Webster'sT°.» BNBS t S T AND Its
Dictionary, 1700 pages 1600 illns ? Unabridged
mv price 15/- post paidiwhvJ o’ l i ather bound,
Bootmaking and Repairinc P M<> 3 an l 4 tineas?).
Electric Motors, 1/0 Moorf'A- Dynamos and
ant and complete Mechanic 1 L „n I R VERSAL ASSIST ‘
bound, IQ/6 posted. Thf cloth
1/- post. 200 Old-Tim! SON E r° P Clairvoyance,
complete). 1/6 posted' §hf a ~ VOrds and music
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO da?
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot.
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


R.A.N. Wireless & Electrical
Workshops, Randwick, N.S.W.
A PPLICATIOiS S are invited for the posi-
tion of Foreman Armature Winder at
the above Workshops.
Applicants should have experience in A. C.
and D. C. Machines, be conversant with the
latest Workshops practice, and must be able
to efficiently organise and supervise the
armature winding department.
Salary to commence, £5 per week.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
testimonials, should be forwarded to the
Manager, Wireless and Electrical Work-
shops, Randwick. N.S.W., to reach him not
later than 15th July, 1917.
Amusements.
Harr.v Rickards Tivoli Theatres i,td.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1* IvO I, I THEATRE. STUNK Y
EVENINGS 8; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
An Epoch in Vaudeville.
COLOSSAL SUCCESS OF MISS
ADA RIiEVE,
World's most famous Comedienne and a brilliant
Vaudeville Co.
■f IVO LI JIELBOU IUN K.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WILLARD and WILSON, BILLIE SEATON, ALE
GRANT, GEORGE WELCH, BILLY REGO, DAISY
and SYDNEY YATES, ARCHIE ONRI, GWEN
LEWIS, PEGGY PEAT, VAUDE and VERNE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/- 2/- and 1/-.
R I T E RI O N T HEAT RE. SYDN KL
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MARIE TEMPEST,
England's Greatest Comedy Actress, in the drollest
of Modern Comedies,
GOOD GRACIOUS, ANNABELLE.
GRAHAM BROWNE in association.
|_| E R MAJESTY’S, SYDNET,
* 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MOST WONDERFUL DRESS DISPLAY EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
CANARY COTTAGE.
The last word in loveliness and liveliness.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
PAI A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES and JACK IVALLER present
LOOK WHO’S H KIIE.
A KALEIDOSCOPIC INNOVATION.
Glowing with gladness of the season when the
heart is young.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
▼▼▼
*T" RlAN'fil-E IM-AYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEA T RES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world’s best iilins.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: Sd. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Elt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBO U BN E
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE PINK LADY.
The Greatest Triumph of the Royal Comic Opera Co.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
T
II E A T It E
Direction J.
R O Y A 1,, MELROD KN E.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
CYRIL MAUDE
in his world-famous production of
GRUMPY.
KING’S TREAT RE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Welcome Reappearance for a brief season only of
SARA ALLGOOD,
in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
pitINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. PULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE
in
THE STORY OF THE ROSARY.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
AN AUSTRALIAN PICTURE STAR WEEK.
ENID BENNETT
in
HAPPINESS.
SYLVIA BREMER
in
evi
THE MILLIONAIRE VAGRANT.
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
iRITANNIA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
©enli»UoH@ Sessions, 11 a.m, to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 21st June, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Secondhand
15in. to 18in. Gravel Pump, for
Flinders Naval Base, Victoria.
r 11ENDERS will be received until 12 noon
X. on Wednesday, 18th July, 1917, for
the supply and delivery of one Secondhand
15in. to ,18in. Gravel Pump, suitable for
direct coupling'.
Tenderers are to forward with their ten-
der full particulars of pump offered.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Gravel
1 ump” on top left-hand corner of envelope
and addressed to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts. Navy Office, Melbourne.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 31st May, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Teak (in the
Dog) for H.M.A.S. Adelaide.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 15th August, 1917,
for the supply of Teak Timber (in the log)
for H.M.A.S. Adelaide, delivery to be f.o.w.
Commonwealth Dockyard, Sydney.
Further particulars may be obtained
from the Commonwealth of Australia
Gazette, obtainable at any Post Office, or
at the Office of the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, Navy Office, Lonsdale Street, Mel-
bourne.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Public Notice.
The Atherton Tableland Co-operative
Butter and Bacon Co. Ltd.
A PPLICATIONS are hereby invited for First-class
Competent Bacon Curer—must understand every
Branch of the Trade, including Small Goods, etc., and
be competent to advise on all particulars in connec-
tion with the Bacon Factory. Liberal salary to the
right man. Applicants to forward copies of creden-
tials, state age and salary required, whether married
or single, and date can take up duties if appointed.
Applications close with the undersigned on 31st July,
1917, from whom any further information may be
obtained.
A. BENNETT, Manager,
Atherton, North Queensland.
Oovernment Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 28th June, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Socks.
HP ENDERS will be received, subject to
JL the conditions of tendering, until 12
noon on Wednesday, ,11th July, 3917, for
the supply of, approximately, 18,000 pairs
of Socks to the Royal Australian Navy.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette.
obtainable at any Post Office, or at the
office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Aavy Office, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 21st June, 1917-
Tenders for Pumping Plant and Equip-
ment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
rp ENDERS will be received, subject to the
X conditions of tendering, for the supply
and delivery of Pumping Station Plant and
Equipment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney, N.S.W.,
1917 12 n °° n ° n Weduesday » October’
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette,
obtainable at any Post Office, or at the Office
of the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Lonsdale Street. Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navv
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of eases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l, Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOSIT OF
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£a 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 O ii „ £5O
£B7 10 O „ „ £lOO
£875 O O „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 year:* from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all B»nks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwkalth Bank of Australia ?/, th March, 1917
So nice to use
a
01 IQ
And it enables you to
give the teeth every day
that thorough antiseptic
cleansing so necessary
to keep them in the best
possible condition.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert 6* CoManchester, Eng.
*9
•##
• •
ABBEY
SHOES
will please you best. They are
made not only for smart and
distinctive appearance, but for
comfort, long service, and all-round
“rightness.”
We illustrate a very smart, All-
Patent Oxford Shoe. Very highest
grade.
Price, 35|- and 40/-
Tan Willow Calf, 32/6 and 337-
In half- and full-sizes, and in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being:
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from 8.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres :
•22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
1
m
e*a
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents* HAMMOND (Si. CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents : QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents* H. C. PANNIFEX, 20 MarKet Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: GIBBS, BRIGHT &t CO., Adelaide.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6 i
IDEAL FILM PLAYS.—The all-Britisli-made Films, showing one week
before any other Theatre.
metro-dramas first releases screened.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-•
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6. ’
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
aw
Throat in
«*?
DiSgg
rou*‘*!
b#n
a«w«*;
KOO>**i
free
trial
bottle
Keep Free
from Colds
Prevention Is Better than Cure.
To resist colds, influenza, bronchitis, there is no-
T / ng f ban a course of Angier’s Emulsion.
Its soothing, healing effects and its tonic invigorat-
ing?*? 5® U ?° n all the bodil y Unctions make it
affK 6d f< ?" tbe P rev ention of colds and catarrhal
mpnrS nS A If ? e . cold or cou gh h as already com-
menced, Angier s is the best means of throwing it
„• - a d repa-nung the damage it has caused. Phy-
twenty-five yetrf' 5 U " d Angier ' S f ° r OVer
Send name and addrpoc
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO' LTD P °, S ag r. and menti on this paper.
” HU., a 33 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
NOTHING DOING.
“I say, old chap, I’m in shocking luck. I
want money badly, and I haven’t the
least idea where I can get it.”
Glad to hear that. Thought perhaps you
had the idea you could borrow from
me.”
Sydney Telegraph lays down the law:—
As to indulgence in luxuries, the only way to deal
with that form of abuse is to tax the articles which
are the medium of wasting.
That’s right. But the Telegraph makes
one mistake; and so do most of the other
war-time economists. We don’t waste on
things so much as on people. This country
suffers not from luxuries as ordinarily
understood so much as from parasites—non-
producers ; people who eat without working,
who get rich without serving any useful pur-
pose. They are the real luxuries which this
country can’t afford: the host of importers,
agents, boomsters, speculators, politicians,
twiddlers of red-tape, and so on. In bydney
and Melbourne alone there are probably
nearly half a million of them.
Cockv is this week to be paid a further
(id. dividend on wheat of the harvest before
last; wherefore N. S. Wales Minister for
Agriculture Grahame, who incidentally
knows as much about farming as he does
about Arabic, seized the opportunity to blow
off a few words: —
The distribution of this £1,500,000 is a striking
answer to the pessimists who have decried the oper-
ations of the Pool, and are responsible for a great
deal of discontent amongst farmers by giving pub-
licity to distorted and erroneous views.
Well, on Grakamc’s own wheat
growers have been out of this £1,500,000 for
18 months. Meantime they have grown and
reaped another harvest and handed it over
STILL UNSATISFIED.
HE: "As I've said before. I think you ought
to pay me a little attention.”
SHE: “Goodness knows I’m trying! If you
can tell me how I can pay you less, I’ll
do it.”
to the mice, and have a third crop coming on.
One of these days Grahame may wake up to
find that his salary as a politician has been
taken charge of by the P.L.L., and what
hasn’t been lost or wasted is being doled
out in occasional half-crowns a year or two
after the forcible annexation. This will fill
him with a great thankfulness, and when he
gets a final 3d. to pay the household accounts
he will be able to buttonhole a passing re-
porter and explain that the coin is a striking
illustration of the wisdom and justice of the
P.L.L.
On present appearances the trouble will be
not to find farms for returned soldiers, but to
find farmers. The N. S. Wales Government
has already on hand far more so-called farms
than applicants; and, though returned men
are wanted for the job of clearing, etc.,
there are so few offering that other men have
had to be engaged. Every week adds to the
accumulated evidence that, so far as settling
men on the land is concerned, the real pro-
blem of repatriation is to give “the land” a
much more attractive prospect than it offers
at present. And because that means making
the city a lot less attractive, the outlook for
the solution of the real problem isn’t pro-
mising.
“Rataplan” describes how Hughes’s House
is winning the war:—
Whatever the result of the Thrift wave in Aus-
tralia, it will leave the .Federal Parliament high and
dry. Members are too much interested personally
to curtail squandering. For instance, there is the
ingenious system of O.S. stamps designed to provide
M’s.P. with free postage for “official” correspond-
ence. No politician, venerating the traditions of
his caste, would suggest a stricter control over the
stamp-box. Nor over private “collect” wires. / Nor
over travelling allowances. All that the outsider
knows is that “travelling exes.” covers a multitude
of train and steamer fares for a member—and his
family, if he is influential. If he gets promotion
to Cabinet rank he can also monopolise a motor-
car.
The spirit of extravagance, tolerated in the matter
of members’ privileges, is encouraged in other ways.
A while back a night-watchman was engaged to
wander about the premises after dark, and an expen-
sive series of watchman’s clocks was set up to keep
the night-bird walking. The watchman is super-
fluous, as the House is the special care of an eternal
policeman, whilst two housekeepers are permanent
boarders.
Vet, despite the growth of useless expenditure,
interested politicians are ceaselessly hatching new
plans. Lately members have petitioned for the
appointment of vypists to help ,vl^ h
correspondence. This precious proposal would TO
anythin* between £2OOO and £3OOO a year, apart
from the cash for alterations to provide lavat y
accommodation. Yet if the suggestion, » pressed
Hughes and Co. will probably grant the comforts
and hand over their own Thrift Week to S*ne De
once more.
“Copy Boy": The Anzac Bulletin is
issued by the High Commissioner b office to
supplv the troops with Australian news, the
cost 'being borne by the Australian tax
payer. Prior to the recent elections 40 lines
were given to the Labor manifesto, the
Phewsion document got three pages. U
Tudor’s appeal 600 words were published
2000 words from Hughes were cabled, and
all were printed. Tudor’s opening speech
was dismissed with a par; Hughes s vv ■
given three and a half columns. W hen the
Anzac Bulletin was started it was laid
down bv the Cabinet of which Hughes was
a member that politics were to have no place
in its pages. Apparently Hughes meant the
other fellow’s politics.
In view of the proposal which the 4 ic-
torian P.L.C. conference is to discuss, con-
cerning the deletion of compulsory
military training from its programme,
it is significant that somebody has
already taken time by the front hair.
The Federal platform of the Labor
party, as recently printed by the local
organ of the P.L.C., contains no men-
tion of Defence matters. The P.L.C.
“fighting platform” last year included
a “citizen defence force”; but it has
vanished. If there is an explanation,
somebody should hurry along with it
just to show that the executive of the
movement in Victoria isn’t the auto-
cratic body its enemies declare it to be.
“Tracker” is troubled in mind: —
If I knock-off smoking to-morrow I can save
Is. 6d. a week and lend it to the Commonwealth,
which has hitherto been getting about 6d. a week
revenue out of my immorality or dissipation, or
whatever it is. Supposing all hands do the same
thing and invest (say) £3,000,000 in war loan.
The following occurs: (1) The Commonwealth loses
£1,258,953 hitherto collected in duty on tobacco;
(2) it loses the income-tax derivable from manufac-
turers and traders; and (3) the Commonwealth,
instead of collecting about £1,500,000 a year in
taxes, borrows £3,000,000, on which it has to pay
£150,000 interest after collecting that sum from
someone else. I have asked 153 individuals to
tell me where the advantage would be to the nation
on this deal. They all stop short at explaining that
I personally would be better off —and run away when
requested to explain how my being better off and the
nation worse off would help to win the war. Per-
haps Mr. Hughes can tell me.
Hagelthorn, Prince of Spuds in Victoria,
has been laying down the law to that revolu-
tionary body, the Farmers’ Union. There was
a meeting of delegates at Ou.ven recently,
with 35 branches represented. Hagelthorn
told this collection of gnarled bushmen wliat
he thought of them, apparently because of
their union’s horrible intention of running
its own candidates at the next Assembly
elections. The fact that preferential voting
obtains in Victoria made no difference to
tactful Hagelthorn, who told the Ouyen
liard-doers that it “wasn’t possible for the
union to get a decent man in,” and
that the V.F.U. was “narrower than
the Labor bodies because Labor
allowed anyone who was respectable
to join, while the Farmers' Union ad-
mitted none not producers.” Evidently
in the best interests of true Liberal-
ism, the Farmers’ Union should give
up being a farmers’ union, and offer
the glad hand to brother Bung and
Bill the barber and Dick at the bike-
shop and Harry the blacksmith. Then
Bung and Bill and Dick and Harry
could speak in the name of the farm-
ers and decide what was best for the
farmers’ good—on the principle that,
if you want to find out what is good
for a dog, you should always consult
the flea that lives on him.
The next time a Victorian Rich Landlord
or a Minister, for that matter, babbles about
"national efficiency” and “economy in ship-
ping,” someone might ask him why the
embargo on the sale of YVonthaggi coal to
the public isn’t lifted. The Vic. public is
now paying 3s. a cwt. for coal shipped from
Newcastle, yet the Railways pay but Is. for
W onthaggi stuff, nearly as good. If the
mine were worked to the " limit of its
present capacity and development gone on
with, the output could be trebled at once
and increased sixfold shortly, coal could be
sold to an eager public at half the price of
nr? arti( b le ’ a ? d thp present deficit
on the btate undertaking turned into a
desirable profit. This might be awkward for
those statesmen who want to keep on forcing
Melbourne to use Newcastle coal, but there
“ n ,°, outstanding reason why the public
should be sweated to please them.
Relative to the barney between the N. S.
Wales Government and the Railway Com-
missioners as to whether the city railwa>
or country lines should be built with the
small amount of available cash, the S. M.
Herald veils for the city railway because
“of what use is it to get primary produce
on the railways if the railways are so con-
o-ested that the primary produce cannot be
taken towards the city sufficiently expedi-
tiously?” Certainly not much. But a
country is in a weird state if primary pro-
duction— admittedly of first importance-
must wait development pending the building
of more transport facilities in. one lone
city; the more so when that city is twice as
far away from most of the main primary-
industry districts as other available harbors.
When a Ballarat draper was called upon
the other day by the Board of Health in-
spector to explain why a half-and-half
material was labelled “Wool: Colonial Flan-
nel,” he merely said that the label was
supposed to tell its own tale. “If it were
all wool,” the draper pleaded, “it would be
labelled ‘English flannel.’ ” What have the
Government and the woollen mills to say
to that? It is certainly up to somebody to
say something. Plainly here is a retailer
who puts it to his customers that, by com-
parison with English goods, “colonial” wool-
lens are a fraud. If that is not a fact, and
if the retailer is merely a person who is
willing to damn Australian industries with-
out regard for truth in the ordinary course of
business, then it ought to be competent for
some authority to prosecute him and, if
successful, placard his premises with an
official statement of his character.
Some samples of the effect of the importing
craze in his special line were given by E. E.
Pescott, Vic. Director of Agriculture, the
other day. A Melbourne nurseryman wanted
some seed of Sturt’s desert-pea, which runs
wild over a lot of Australia and is a native
of no other land. He sent to England for it.
but was told that there were no supplies
available since the war put Germany out of
the market. Just before the war another
Melbourne nurseryman showed Pescott the
seeds of. 100 Australian species of wattle,
every single one imported from Germany.
To kill this sort of thing we don't need
duties so much as a feeling that it is dis-
graceful to buy anything from outside our
own country.
“If any workman really does know just
what all his rights are under the laws relat-
ing to Compensation, I should say be ought
to be given a position on the Bench of the
House of Lords.”— Judge (Jordon (S.A.) on
the complexity of the Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act.
THE SUBSTITUTE.
THE PHYSICIAN : “You don’t appear to be
any better. Did you take the cham-
pagne and oysters I ordered?”
MITHER VINKSTEIN : “Veil, no! You thsee.
I couldn’t afford deni, but I vos take
plenty gingerbeer and mussels insthead."
“L.H.” : What! Does The Bulletin sus-
pect Pearce of beiug a dilatory, indecisive
sort of Minister? Why, it was only in
August, 1915, that he and his colleagues
commissioned a High Court Judge to tell
t lem something about the misconduct of the
Department. Rich urged the appointment of
business men to advise and assist in matters
ot finance ; and now, in less than two years,
action is being taken in the matter. Person-
* nutate to recommend anybody for
think probably Howell-Price
might teach the Department a thing or two.
UNREALITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A profound change had come over the House of
Lords since the Parliament Act was passed. the
attendance had fallen, and a feeling of unreality pei-
vaded the proceedings. The atmosphere was one ot
make-believe.” —Cab le.
Gilt hats, embroidered arms and silken hose
Link the soft present with the stalwart past.
Small, freckled, sandy-whiskered nobles dose
Some distance from the modern battle-blast
Whose fathers, armored like a kitchen range,
Rode the war draught-horse in old charges strange.
Great were the deeds of ancient chivalry.
Then, sweating under half a ton of steel,
Peers swung the meat-axe on to victory
Or pushed a clothes-prop barbed with burnished steel.
Though scarce a knight could write his glorious
name,
They fought to save the castle-yard from shame.
That castle-yard, full-crammed with horse and cow
And pig and duck and minstrels making song,
Where tall, fair damsels smiled amid the row
And breathed the mingled odors rich and strong,
Stood fori the home-sweet-home they loved so well,
And guarding grandly in their valor fell.
’Twas meet that such as these should make the laws.
The churl without the gate was not as they.
He merely ploughed the weary soil because
Someone must And the bread to feed the fray.
Bread for the fighter was the constant need ;
But glory only lived to brag and bleed.
To brag and bleed and plot and legislate
Were the high functions of the ancient peers;
But those old ways are somewhat out-of-date
And common men usurp the pride of years.
In fact, in France, where tortured hills explode,
It is the common men who clear the road.
Gilt hats, embroidered arms and painted show —
The glory of the past sits bleary-eyed
Hearing the larger tumult swell and grow;
And all the ancient deeds that were its pride,
Piled in one place, would scarcely make a fight
Of which to-day it seems worth while to write 1
Knights of the trenches, nobles of the raid—
These are the peers of our tremendous day 1
The ancient boastings and the titles fade,
The olden order passes quite away.
And on red cushions from the strife afar
The dead things wonder who and what they are.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


“Bookstall” Novels
are
Front-Line Favorites.
BUSH
DON
DELANEY
•i
my.
This letter is from an A.I.F. man in
France:—-
“It would surprise you to see the
number of ‘Bookstall’ novels over
here. Why, even on this box at my
side, are ‘The Recipe for Rubber,’
‘That Droll Lady,’ ‘Rung In,’ and
‘Gamblers’ Gold.’ And I think they
have earned their price, for they
have been read by all our men.”
Hip . Bullei ’ in set out to discover what was the most popular reading in
the nrm„-line. This was the reply from the O.C. of one battalion:—
T 3 h c ail^ ering after anything Australian; and
I think the Bookstall Series would please Billiim more than
anything else.”
“Bookstall ” Novels are the best work of Australian Novelists.
Over 1,500,000 “BOOKSTALL”
Novels have already been sold.
A[l ° ne p rice: 1J- each; ijl posted.
A few of the Authors represented in the “Bookstall’
NINETY GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
A FEW FAVORITES:—
‘ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
‘A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
‘STELLA SOTHERN,”
By I. A. ROSENBLUM.
‘IN THE LAST STRIDE,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
‘A BACHELOR’S WIFE,”
By M. FORREST.
“ABORIGINALITIES,”
From The Bulletin.
“FOR TURON GOLD,”
By DON DELANEY.
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
By JOHN X. CAMERON.
“LOVES OF LANCELOT,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
“THE POOR PARSON,”
By STEELE RUDD.
Sent! a
“Bookstall”
Novel to your friend on active service—it will
be appreciated.
‘ an oo nviSMOoa m s n
4-76 George Streat,
— — SYDNEY.
Westinghouse
Tramway Controllers
SOME SPECIAL FEATURES:
Exceptionally strong mechanical construction.
Simple mechanism with minimum number of parts.
All parts made to gauge and strictly interchangeable.
Liberal rating of all current carrying parts.
Low maintenance.
All wearing parts easily and cheaply renewable.
Renewable finger and drum arcing tips.
All parts easily accessible both for inspection and repairs.
Simple method of cutting out either motor, when required.
Most powerful magnetic controller blow-out on the market.
Constant finger tension irrespective of wear.
Stubbing entirely prevented by special design of finger springs.
All connections are visible on removal of front cover.
Ample space for incoming cables.
Head Office for Australia:
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
fstincliougf
Manchester
Works—Yraffor^^^
WORMS—THE SYMPTOMS.
The symptoms of worms are manifold,
embracing not ohly facial indications and
depression of the whole system, but serious
irritation and much distress.
IN VERY YOUNG CHILDREN much
of the irritability and fretfulness is often
due to the presence of worms. Restless-
ness, fitfulness, sudden starts, hardness and
fulness of the belly, irregular movement of
the bowels, and excessive secretion of saliva
from the mouth are invariably indications of
the irritation caused by worms.
IN OLDER CHILDREN the same symp-
toms are present, but more distinctly defined.
Grinding of the teeth, violent movements of
the legs and arms, and an undue flow of
saliva, which causes frequent efforts to swal-
low. When awake there is a constant desire
to pick the nose and scratch the irritated
parts. The bowels are irregular, and fre-
quently the movement of the worms causes
diarrhoea, alternating with costiveness. The
breath is usually foul, and the child is lan-
guid and peevish. The tongue preternatu-
rally red or alternately clean and covered
with a white slimy mucus. A short, dry
cough, frequently slimy stools (excretion
from the bowels), emaciation, slow fever,
irregular pulse, and sometimes convulsions.
Loss of appetite frequently alternates with
a craving for food. Indeed, the latter symp-
tom is most pronounced in many cases, and
many mothers have experienced the insatiable
appetites of their children without realising
the cause.
NEW ZEALAND CASE.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS
SUCCESSFTJL WHEN OTHER TREATMENTS
FAILED.
“My son,” writes Mrs. E. J. Peagram, of
77 Princes Street, Woolston, Christchurch,
N.Z.. “was induced to take Comstock’s ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets after trying several other
so-called remedies but to little use. He was
suffering with Thread Worms, and, after a
course of this medicine (Comstock’s Worm
Pellets) he was cured from these intestinal
parasites. I can recommend this medicine,
knowing myself that it cured my son, who is
now away at the Front fighting for the
Empire.”
GRATEFUL PARENT
DESCRIBES WHAT COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT”
WORM PELLETS DID FOR HER CHILD.
“I really don’t know how to thank you
for your wonderful worm tablets,” writes
Mrs. T. Lackenby, 41 Lower Tupper Street,
Marrickville, N.S.W. “My little boy
Thomas, aged 17 months, suffered a great
deal with the thread worms; he was very
cross and never had any rest at night. I
was told about your cure, and thought I
would try them, as I have tried such a lot
of so-called cures. I got a bottle and can
honestly say they have cured my baby.
There are now no signs of worms, and he
only had one bottle. I again thank you, as
I am sure they can’t be beaten. You can
use this letter as you like.”
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS are a purely vegetable medi-
cinal preparation, compounded on a scientific
principle, for the eradication of worms
which infest the intestines. They contain
specific properties which destroy the worms
but cause no injury to the stomach or
bow’els and do not weaken the system. The
pellets are prepared in the form of a con-
fection or lolly, have no disagreeable taste
or smell, but, on the contrary, inspire chil-
dren to take them as they would an ordinary
lozenge.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and
stores, or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney; and Parish Street, Wellington,
N.Z. Price 3s. 6d. per packet (6 packets
205.), post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
AN AUSTRALIAN PRODUCT.
Dr, Morse’s Indian Root Pills have been manufactured entirely in Australia for the
past fifteen years, and it is safe to say that nowhere in any country is a better pill made, both as
regards high-grade ingredients, splendid efficiency and general appearance. They are packed in the
well-known Amber Bottle, not in cheap wooden or cardboard boxes, and therefore are unaffected by
climatic changes and reach the Public in perfect condition. It may be stated also the ownership
of this preparation is all British, but it is not for these reasons the merits of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are urged on the attention of the Public (although good in themselves)
but rather for the reason that they are a high-grade preparation effective for all classes of the
community, both rich and poor. A millionaire can get nothing better at any price to aid in the
digestion and assimilation of his food. They cleanse the system, purify the blood, and are a safe,
certain and reliable remedy for all complaints arising from over-eating or over-drinking, and from any
other cause that has dislocated the digestive machine. They are sold at a price within the reach of all.


The method of the optimist is to keep
trying, that of the pessimist to keep crving,
or so it seems to the wisdom inspired by
that wise spirit King George IV. topnotch
Scotch.—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Goap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELftOUI\\IP& SYbNEY
No razor’s edge has ever
been ground to that ex-
quisitely fine keenness you
get with the hard yet flexible
wafer blade of the
23L g.V.K-7
NO STROPPING NO HON INS
It took many years to make this per*
feet Gillette blade. But every Gillette
user knows what a pleasure it has
added to shaving. Take a packet
home to-night. Sold in cardboard
cartons.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. Hoffnung & Co , Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Saefty Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
TRADE
MARK
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVfcfc
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
5000 SEVEN DAYS’ TRIAL OUTFITS
OF DR. GASTON
MENIER’S FAMOUS
FRENCH REMEDY FOR
CATARRH
kinds’of FlSds l af , enlbraccd 80 many different
physician, Dr. Gaston Menier’, of the Facultv T that bHlliar,t FrenCh
irtalnV^’
public, from the poorest to the richest, for the t
5
o/- TRIAL OUTFIT FREE IF YOU WILL
SLND ONE SHILLING AND SIXPENCE
IN STAMPS, to pay for postage, box, packing, etc.,
and send a cutting of this advt. MENIER
SYSTEM CONCESSIONAIRES, 64 PITT
STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
1/6
Bul., 6/7/’l7.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Weights were out for the Lpsom and
Metropolitan Handicaps and Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups last week, and for anyone who thinks he can
pick one or the lot, the time is now ripe to have a
try. Amberdown, who has been winning up in
Bananaland, is at the top of the list for the Epsom
with 9st. 61b. This colt is probably a really good
’un, but the weight seems to have been just dropped
on as a precaution. Bananaland form has almost
always proved misleading at Rand wick; anyhow,
what reasonable ground is there for thinking Amber-
down a better miler than Cetigne and 1 lb. short ot
a stone better over this distance than Wedding Day?
Or for regarding Karanaud King as better than the
Doncaster Handicap winner? In the Metropolitan
the Sidney weight adjuster puts Cisco lib. above
Kilbov. For the Caulfield Cup the position is re-
versed, the Maorilander being very properly 91b.
over the other. In the Metropolitan Court Jester
is 131 b. below Chantemerle, 31b. below Sobrina and
51b. above Bucklaw. In the Caulfield the difference
between the Jester and Chantemerle is put at 21b.;
he is reckoned 14lb. better than Sobrina and 81b.
ahead of Bucklaw. Mehi King and Blue Bolt are
on the 7st. 91b. mark in the Metro. In the Caulfield
Mehi King, Bst. 41b. ; Blue Bolt, 7st. 51b. For the
Melbourne Cup Desert Gold and Lanius get 9st.
31b., 21b. below Kilboy and 41b. les3 than Patrobus.
The Maoriland champion is not likely to carry it.
•* * * *
With Pistolier out of the running the
G. N. Hurdle would look an exceptionally open race,
tf.°ing that none of the light-weights are conspicu-
ously preferable to such tried and trusty old stagers
as, say, Ballista, Coronatos and A’an Homreigh. But
Pistolier, the much-whispered “good thing” from
Adelaide, has at last proved himself an easy jumper
by winning the hurdle-race at Moonee A’alley last
Saturday in brilliant style, having the field at bis
mercy half a mile from home. It was an impressive
victory, and explained why the stipes had questioned
the nag’s poor performance at Caulfield the previous
Saturday, though it didn’t explain why they accepted
the explanation as being satisfactory. On this latest
performance Pistolier is a pretty good thing for the
classic July handicap over the little sticks. His
ability to go three miles with manj' hurdles on the
long journey is not yet proved, hut his breeding—he
is a son of Pistol —promises that he can stay, and
other considerations are favorable. He is orly a
6-year-old. His form on the flat can be estimated
from the fact that he was handicapped at 7st. 101 b.
for last Caulfield Cup. There is nothing against him
now except the query whether his jumping muscles
are sufficiently developed for a trying three-miles
journey with lOst. lib. up.
The same doubt applies to Bundong, Merunqua and
King Mostyn, rather than to Fastolf, who will be the
youngest animal on the job. Even the aged Greek
Fire is a comparative juvenile at hurdle-racing;
and inasmuch as he is by the same sire as Pistolier
and has 151 b. more to hump, there is no valid reason
for preferring him to the younger gelding. Besides,
it is safer to look at the weights from 1 Ot. 71b.
downwards in picking one for the G. N. Hurdle Race.
The writer takes Pistolier, Bundong, Nick-a-Jack,
Royal Precedent, Merunqua and Fastolf as a likely
half-dozen; but rot one of them is certain to get
placed in a struggle where one bad jump may settle
the chances of several horses. Nick-a-Jack has
already won a ding-dong race over the long course,
Roval Precedent ran well in last year’s National, and
Fastolf has speed and stamina. At longer prices they
look as well worth backing as the better favorites.
* * * •
King Mostyn, with only 9st. 41b., appeared
to be thrown into the Jumpers’ Flat Race at Moonee
A’alley, and the wonder was that he was allowed to
start at Bto 1. Fir-t-monev was a gift to this son
of Mountain King. Naturally he had backers for the
National on the strength of the easy win from
Fastolf and others that he will meet over the
hurdles. All the same, his parentage doesn’t suggest
stamina. King Mostyn, like Thaletas, is a possi-
bility on his form as far as it has gone, but it
hasn't gone far enough to compel confidence.
* * * *
At time of writing Old Mungindi was
favorite for the.G. N. Steeple, without having per-
suaded the best judges that he will be equal to jump-
ing the Flemirgton course at racing pace. He may
be tested in the Kensington Steeple on the second
day of the meeting, unless he is a starter for the
Steeplechasers’ Flnt. Entrants for the Maiden
Steeple on Saturday don’t include one of the G.N.
candidates, but the Maiden Hurdle may bring out
Barlow, who is entered for the big race at Caulfield
next month. The touts tell great tales of Barlow.
* * * »
“Belladonna” : I don’t know if it origi-
nated there, but I first saw the “Donkey Race” run on
a Mackay (N.Q.) hush course 12 months ago. Under
this system the cash goes to the moke that gets home
last. Each owner takes the other bloque’s horse and
sets it going for its life, so that his own horse may
be left astern. It is cheap racing, too, for neither
jockey nor spurs are needed. All that is wanted is
the slowest nag in Australia ; so what’s wrong with
having it on at Randwick or Ascot during the war?
Anyway, it would settle a lot of argument about a
few of the quadrupeds that are being saddled up
nowadays.
* * * *
How the totalisator hands out to backers
surprising balances that the bookmaker pockets un-
suspected was shown in a small race at Adelaide
last week, when the staggering dividend of £lBl
10s. for second was paid on AVcstendale. Man’s i
mind is a strange machine ; £250,000 is a big for-
tune by itself, but the difference between 2j and 24
millions suggests hardly anything. Simflarly,; the
imagination of backers seems to stop a ’ hg
riirfprpnce between that and ISO wi »
backer who brought off an 80 to 1
atelv after a 100 to 1 chance would talk about it tor
thorest of his life. Even if any booky weie ra&n
enough to have offered 100 to Vf'TsVwoukThave
Westendale’s field of 17, the extra £BO would have
been his all unrecognised. The methodical m< c
just se ts out the mathematical odds, keeps its agreed
commission, and hands out the rest. ■
dividend is not S.A.’s best on record. In 1914
£lB7 ss. was paid; and long ago, before the tote
was widely popular, the solitary backer of D.O.D.
in the Goodwood Handicap of 18^ r tOT L! hVe«ten-
£B36 16s. the machine had to offer. But VVe.te
dale’s dividend for second place—it would have been
three times as much if he had won- is likely
stand unchallenged. *
* * *■
A record second-horse divvy was P&ifl
at the recent Morphettville (S.A.) Tattersall s Cup
meeting, when AVcstendale unexpectedly occupied the
position of runner-up in the Guelph Hurdle Race.
The surprising moke returned £lBl 10s. for every
sovereign invested, and the dollar-punters came into
a small fortune of £45 7s. 6d. each. #
At the buckjumping contest at the recent
Rockhampton carnival a mere youth of 60, by name
C. J. Triffitt, stuck like a postage stamp to a hard-
case. Nothing hut starvation could have got him
out of the saddle. His horse gave an “all wool
exhibition for a while, but the aged party on the
roof never turned a hair. He was awarded second
prize. The animal underneath was Quart Pot
Ex-champion swimmer FRANK BEAURE-
PAIRE, now Y.M.C.A. representative
with the A.I.F. in France.
“Bap-poz-som”: Sgt. Reg Wykeham says
(B. 18/1/’l7) that Australian horseflesh in England
has to give way to Canadian samples when it comes
to resisting cold. I appear for the plaintiff in an
action for libel. In 1915 we took our Australian
artillery horses to Egypt. Loss in transport, one
out of over 400. Landing, they were crammed into
trucks and entrained to Ezbet-el-Zetoun from Suez.
Next day they were rushed into harness to meet
Johnnie Turk on the dust-heap along the Canal;
later they penetrated well into Sinai Peninsula.
Here the ration of food and water was both poor
and scanty. After enduring the agonies of sand
and flies for months we crossed to France 12 months
ago with 120 nags. On arrival, instead of sand,
flies and heat, the horses had snow, slush and wind,
without any protection, and, what is more, they have
since been exposed to the rigors of the coldest winter
for 45 years on that delightful Add, the Somme,
better known in the German official communique as
“the untenable morass.”' After a day’s work the
animals were plastered with mud from heels to ears,
inches thick. For 30 days, in January and
February, we had continuous frosts and snow. The
maximum temperature was 27 deg. below freezing-
point. Of the 120 Australian horses we now have
24; killed, 40; wounded, 22 ; hospital, 18. Contrast
the figures relating to the Canadian horses that we
have had through our hands: Received 117, at vari-
ous dates. Remaining 26; killed, 14; hospital, 20.
The others died from exposure and cold. When
he wrote from England, Wykeham simply didn’t know
what exposure means.
* * *
It was Andy McGuire and Vince Black-
burn at Sydney Stadium on Saturday, with the
featherweight championship hung up for controversy •
and if Andrew had not fouled Blackburn during the
15th round he would probably have won. Anyhow
he was trimming Blackburn in pretty good style
when the blow was delivered, and unless Vincent
keeps his wits under better control next time the
Victorian kid will certainly do him harm in a
lawful way.
* * * *
Tommy Uren led himself on another
expedition against the defences of Fred Kay on
Saturday at Melbourne, and this time got through
The long Westralian was biffed into oblivion for a
change, and that is all there is to say about it
* * * *
Sandy McVea. the Binghi bantam from
1 Westralia, was handicapped with a touch of dengue
fever when he met Billy Reardon at Bris-
bane on Saturday, and for the first half he
let William do all the graft. Then Sandy
detached a few right hooks, and in the unlucky
round induced Reardon to rest twice for 9sec. After
this, White Australia recovered a bit and put in
some good work till the last two rounds, when
McVea monopolised the argument. Maree declared
it a draw, which was about right.
The grim irony of jt:! JjJJ £
go awav. Thousands called when he came
The girl he had been going to marry^^chea
Memphis an hour or two beioie the en of
devoted Mick Hawkins brought what was
Lrs Darcv back last week to Sjdne,,. » * bp
very unusual. The remains w ere rc mav thither
3“T»hlic° to* “IfSuindf t. .nareh past J.i,e
coffin People stood for hours waiting for ~ .
to join the P queue, and when late on thejrsyngl ht
the establishment was closed there as bo(]y
disappointed mob . ™ts‘de On S e und n / ort “ nate ta d
was buried at Maitland, wnere j time
before'’the storfff that quickly-moving life is for-
gotten _ _ .
There is no one who does not feel sorry for
Darcy for he «fs the victim of bad advice and
iron circumstance. But it is over the o i-
expression to a decent, humane regre P* paper
a martyrdom campaign on his behalf. ™ s pape
receives about 15 letters a day full of 'v d lan uage
concerning “the ghouls who hounded Darcy to ms
death.” None of these communications rnenUons
who the ghouls are or what they did. Throwing
adjectives at anonymous ghouls is poor business ,
but if anyone can supply the address of a live one,
with an outline of his heartless offending, thi s page
will gladly make an inspection of him. ,
’twere better that the grave of Maitland s Achilles
should not be kept open.
Killed in the Big Fight, Clyde Pearce, of
Tasmania, the finest golfer Australia has Known.
Pearce won the Australian “open” championship in
1908 and the amateur title in 1909: two years
afterwards he lifted a club in the English amateur
championship, but was beaten in the third round.
* * * *
The Hun bowled over a fine footballer
when Lieut. A. C. Wilson died of wounds in France
recc'-tlv. He had the remarkable distinction ot
having pulled on a jersey for Auckland, Wellington,
Canterbury and Otago in Maoriland inter-provincial
Rugby; and his great strength left many lumps on
o 'posing forwards which took more than soap to rub
off.
* * * *
Randal V. McDonnell, of the Army Medi-
cal Corps, who has been awarded the Military Cross
in France, was all-schools’ rowing champion of N. S.
Wales in 1906, and was in the winning crew of the
Ignatius four in that year. Going up to the ’Varsity
he stroked the winning College four (Johns), and
was one of the crew in the inter-State eight next
year. He was at Cambridge University when war
broke out, and joined the British army because it
was the handiest.
* * * *
F. Mellor landed the N.S.W. three-miles
motor-cycle championship on Saturday, with half a
dozen lengths to spare, from H. Seabrook, in 6min.
31see. Mellor’s ride, on a 2j-h.p. Douglas, averaged
27 miles per hour, which was fair going for Sydney
Cricket Ground concrete track.
* * * *
It was a fine burst by S. Hutton which
won the N. S. Wales Rugby Union’s goal-to-goal
sprint championship at Sydney on Saturday. At
half-way, K. B. Fraser (who recently won the ’Var-
sity 440yds. and 120yds. hurdles championships)
was flying along with a syds. lead; but Hutton’s
great stride got him up to dead-heat in 13sec. In
four tries Hutton has now won two championships
and dead-heated in another.
* * * *
“Chink” : The fellows in a Victorian coun-
try workshop started to pull the leg of a simple new
arrival recently and kidded him he would make a
runner. “Stall” bets were rigged, and, according to
private arrangement, he beat one of the crowd in a
trial sprint. Then it was easv to sool the aspiring
ped. into a handicap at a fair-sized sports-meeting.
It was the simple soul who did the sniggering when
it was over. He won his heat by inches and the
final by two yards, thus collecting a decent bit of
plate presented by Premier Peacock.
* * * *
“F.N.”: The complacent quietude of the
Melbourne police, in the face of all manner of reports
concerning robberies in Melbourne and suburbs,
found its reflex in the City Court on a recent Satur-
day, when for the first time in 25 years no -criminal
cases were listed for discussion. The police are not
idle, however. Twice within the past four weeks
I have been temporarily arrested by a pair of them,
flashing red lights and waving the cloak of brief
authority across the roadway, and lectured at some
length on the impropriety of making too much row
with my motor-bike exhaust. Nothing happened but
the caution ; and as the offending silencer had been
rat-tat-tatting during IS months or so in the
presence of scores of bystanding constables, it seems
as though a lot of time is being wasted in this
branch of police-sport alone. On the other hand, an
innocent pal of mine was lately dragged before a
suburban bench and fined two guineas, on the bare
word of the police and despite his frantic offers of
any demonstration the Bench liked to demand, for
being uproarious with his bike-machinery. The
burglar has the best of it, all right. He simply
stuns the constable and clears.
* * * *
“Montales”: Was present recently at an
exhibition of trick-shooting. Wonderful, if you
don’t know how it’s done. Hitting a tossed-up
ball, to begin with, though not a trick, is about
equal to hitting a 3-in. bull at 10 yards, which a
fair ordinary shot will do at 100. Other tossed-up
objects are never beyond a 10yd. range, and, as
they are hit on the momentary pause for the turn,
they are thrown so as to reach this point when in
line with a mark on a screen behind them. When
trap-thrown, the exact height they will reach is
known, and little skill is required to score a hit.
Splitting cards, driving nails, and so on are quite
possible to an ordinary shot after moderate practice
at the particular distance favored, and back-shooting
is done with the aid of an unobtrusive mirror the
sights being aligned in the reflection. The apparent
shooting of the ash off a cigar is done with the
aid of a spill through the weed, which, at the firing
moment, is pushed forward by the tongue; while,
as for putting out a candle, anywhere within 15
inches will do the trick by air.displacement. Break-
ing a glass ball upon the head of an assistant is
about the biggest fraud of the lot. The shooter
fires, not at the ball, but at a mark about a foot
higher in the screen against which the assistant
file,, which, thus jerked
inward drlvefoutwlrd into the ball a short spike
ifthe other end of a pivoted arm.
“Think” • Instead of bragging of the ex-
CnmK • . All ctralians when out after
ploits of his two t x >> (B. 21/6/’l7) would
birds with a rifle, taken the pestiferous kids
have done better ba h e with (;he bllg j ncss end of a
aside and tried his sk U th;U almost every bird
belt, tor the drab T valuable native species
on their list of '™ oi( ! c t e d from assassins for all
and supposed to be p t « golitary exception is the
or most of the - ve^ r -, b lue crane (correctly
crow. Particular!- , which the calamitous “Me-
the white-fronted heroO, table bird, possess a
tax” incidentally booms the pne that
SdVt'it 'sUsVm offshoot
“V”- Duck-shooters anathematise the
/ r .U.n hf c*, «
eSSHsk's- Jtt Spin's
have a times observed coots packed closely in com-
ninfcs of 30 or more on the margins of shallow salt
lakes dozing in the sunshine and apparently oblivi-
ous of an things. But the .cnnkhngof^st.ckunder-
turnaT 1 patrol 3 ofTkeThore” 'and river banks levies
toll on P the coot family, and th|t’|the only good
word that most sports have for Reynard.
* * *
“Cylinder”: As it seemed to have been
settled that to aim in front is the best way to get
ducks I would not have taken off my coat again had
not “Tam-o’-Bhanter” (B. 17/5/’l7) trod on the
tail of it with a statement about guns having Donald-
son and George Reid speeds. There is no greater
delusion than this with gunners and no better flgnt
promoter. Some years ago in England, where they
do these things with more scientific instruments than
kero.-tins, a big experiment was made. Cartridges
were specially loaded, each shell as like the others
as it was humanly possible to make it. Guns of all
makes and borings were taken and tested with these
shells. The result was that no two weapons in the
same class of boring gave the same velocity, but
(and this is the point) the difference between the
fastest and slowest was not worth mentioning. If one
gun shoots faster than another, timing from the
explosion, it is because of the load that is in it---
not by any virtue of the mere bits of wood and
steel. The cartridge of commerce is as variable as
the wind. Let “Tam o'Shanter” take a naphtha (not
kero.) tin, measure 40 yards from it, take his J.D.
and G.R. guns and shoot at it with two similar No.
6 shells, and see if he can discern any difference in
penetration. The fastest shooter should send ’em
through and the slower should not. I'll back the
tin, barring an odd pellet which may be of a slightly
larger size. Only one othev condition—the shot to
be chilled lead, not an alloy. As for pattern in
guns, I’ve tested ’em at the large target, standard
test —guns worth from £7 to £50 —;and could never
find much more than 10 per cent. dif. and not that
in choke bores.
* * * »
“Flinderino”: The rifle-fish that fired
water-pellets at “Ossian” (B. 24/5/’l7) while he
angled in Station Creek, near Chillagoe, is to 'be
found in pretty well all coastal streams in North
Queensland. It is mostly known as Norman River
trout, is sometimes called anchor fish, and at Cairns
they call it spotted bream. Owing to its habit of
swimming near the surface it falls an easy prey to
sea birds.


Why Wait Till You Get I
a Thrashing
before you learn to box?
Why run the risk of being an easy prey to the first “bully” that crosses
your path?
Why take the chance of losing your prestige—your manliness in the eyes
of your fellows—through your inability to assert your rights when the
occasion occurs?
Why not learn to defend yourself, and become a REAL man—a man always
to be reckoned with—looked up to—and respected?
I Teach Boxing by Post
Teach you how to take your part—how to stand up
and deliver good hard punishment to any fellow
who dares to insult or belittle you.
I unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly art
of self-defence—teach you every “hit,” “move,” and
“stop” known to the world's leading boxers.
My instructions are very simple to fellow, and you
will find my lessons both interesting and beneficial.
You will be both pleased and surprised at the rapid
progress you will make under my personal guidance.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
627 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Siris Cigars
Actual Size.
The equal of
smokes often
soldatdouble
the price.
Boxes of 50
Postage 9d.
11/6
Boxes of 100
Postage 1/3 2216
A Sample Cedar
Cabinet of 5 will
be forwarded any-
where on receipt
of 1/6.
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,”
19 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
r-v
Ss
In 2Any
Condition
BENZINE
IS RELIABLE
I^ELIA]
THE SPIRIT”
OF THE WAR
THE ENEMY OF
BRITISHERS
ENEMIES.
MM
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
Catalogue ” D " with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. C™:
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
NATIONAL
BENZINE
The National Spirit is THE Spirit of true service
—on hills and levels —rough roads and smooth —it
gives more POWER and more DISTANCE, and
gives it smoothly, cleanly and ungrudgingly.
“National” gives more miles to the gallon on any test.
Obtainable from
all Garages and
Storekeepers
NATIONAL OIL CO., LTD.,
4 Brldgra Straot, 8/dna/.
JAS. WARDLE & CO.,
West Victoria Square, Adelaide.
I
iSiMIII
>••• .•
9BE
t
.-■■:■ -
Vs':
Wh
p*
S 3
V'l
;.,,
: >
!*>’
|SStSS
sv?-"?
S ' "'.f v
S&
>..r
mm
■Affff
g jffljtf
mm
?r
•*•:<;
m
k
\
. * a&a&sNK
.<3k.
:•, •; ■ . •
0 : -•_••■ ;'v :;•/ '■
}''-'*;■ i ft* & ?'■•: •' vYr* • * * fvi*
Y: ?• f.WT'i, :r-V^'’.'••<v.. J ’ **•>.
rrrr-T-?
Y'i
-.K-
-? •*'•' •;*
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
Wasting Disorders
Price 26 bottle
LSKJ
1 5* I ’
Pure Australian Wool
Australian-made T weed
Australian-made Trousers
These Trousers were made in Australia. The Tweeds
used in their manufacture were made in Australia. The
Wool used in making the Tweeds was grown on the backs
of sheep “born and bred” in Australia, so it only remains
for you to buy and wear the finished Garments to provide
the keystone in the arch of an Australian industry.
But apart from Patriotic Reasons—the trousers them-
selves are sufficient reason for their purchase Perfectly
Tailored in All-Wool Tweeds in Smart Medium Grey
Shades—Neat Herringbone Patterns—Smart and with
wonderful capacity for service Obtainable with cross or
side pockets—they’re rare value at our price
U//J (plus half postage—Victoria 6d.,
/ O Interstate lOd. Outsizes 1/* extra)
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
r-v 244*256 Flinders Street
*\. Melbourne


"BIFF” Makes Walking
a Comfort and Joy
5m
t-
! ||j 7} m
K>
<
/
rv
War-Time
Economy
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
“BIFF” is a scientific compound which draws out
all poisonous matter from the pores of the skin,
leaving the skin in a perfectly healthy condition,
to perform its natural functions. This unique
compound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
"Before using ‘BIFF’ I could scarcely walk, now
I can nearly run,”—Mr. E. R., Victoria.
"Ihave been using ‘BIFF’ for chilblains on my
feet, and have found great reli f.”—
Miss A.K., n.s.w.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
Nothing equals
FOX’s
Serdes
for
wear*
/#s/ Di/e
&rif/sf) Mac/e
Avoid Spurious Iroi/ahons.
Look for fhe above
Trade /larks on every yard.
Avsfrd/idn fteprese/)/df/ms
Box 1802 G P 0
- Sydney -
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
A simple, old-fashioned, home-made recipe will
make the greyness disappear.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
tney are always obvious, inconvenient and
often downright injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
™™S r V° 10 ,. r in a , hSSeS
manner. You have only to get two ounces
of tammalite concentrate from your chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bav rum to
prove this. Apply this simple and harmless
lotion for a few nights to the hair with a
small sponge and the greyness will gradually
disappear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for' generations past bv those in posses-
sion of the formula. —Advt.
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane's leading Hotel now; in fact it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
° f -. the owner > A. FINNIC!AN
rhe Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
Scotched
by the Red Spot
at MURDOCH’S.
That’s it, men —in a nutshell,
prices in a remarkable way, and
The Red Spot has scotched Tailoring
oiven the average man a widei view
ft
of economy.
Don’t miss this chance—it's yours to profit by if you’re quick.
There’s no shortage of materials lere—come along and make your choice,
rz
irfc
m
mu
<s=
m
rm
W)
'III,
CCO
"at
'mm
m
«(<«,. '<£~~mz‘
wm.
xV=:
'Urn,
CZ>:
B.V
m
Stacks of Tweeds
to Choose from.
And the way prices have
slumped is positively extraor-
dinary when you consider the
times. Here’s something to
tickle your think tank.
Suits to Measure —
Usually 84/=, 95/=
NOW
7419
Get this saving
into your pocket
—and realise to
the full the satis-
faction of Mur-
doch Tailoring
and Red Spot
savings.
Desk R.
Messrs. Murdoch’s in Park St., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Red Spot Suitings
at 74/9 Suit-to-measure, with tape and self-
measurement form.
Name
Address
Leave Your
Order to-day.
The Bed Spot rule is
limited—so don’t delay.
Call and inspect the Suit-
ings or write for pat-
terns. Fill in the coupon
now.
MURDOCH’S
in Park Street Ltd., SYDNEY
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
The Finest Fountain Pen to have and to hold.
the Onoto }i "fait-iTr *ii
Th?" Onoto 0 ”° t 0 ” H airl , y “ d “ Wil ' Serve J ' ou for » lifetime.
..I ~ ~ , ls made of ‘he finest materials and is built for service
The Onoto ’is self-filling, it is easy to fin, and it never leaks
and theffJnmhing a ” d fitted,
S: ZIZ '■■VoM hardeMd ’ “ nd a ‘ ap 1-d.
together. “ N ' b Wlll last as lo ”S aa the rest of the pen will hold
The '• nnT ’’’ Ni r n " er splutters and never scratches,
all times. ”is the only fountain pen thaTgivesTbsohtte satisfaction at
Price 14/6 each.
All Stationers. Jewellers & Stores
RMd! f londoii'c MA th„ W RUE & Co -Ltd.,Bunhill
Baker &I.onghum; York sfree?, Sydney.’ Norman
The Sydney § Suburban Hydraulic Power Co IH
For Hydraulic and Electric T iff Ar • J vO. LIU.
other parts-for Hydraulic Mat er ia 1 '‘ripe s "val veT * Kent “" als of lifting Ropes and
generally. Best workmanship and material Ount'f üblnff and High-pressure Stocks
14 Martin Place, Sydney
A. MAYNE HERON, Manager.
BILL’S LETTER TO JIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old pal, this letter goes to say that we are doin
well.
I s’pose the old home’s where it was, and you know
—how is Nell ?
All things is good and easy, lad, we're up to beat
the Huns ;
B’ Easter Friday I’ll be back and help to serve the
buns.
Our blokes is talking Collins-street and old Post
Office Square ;
They chat about the titters and the such-and-such
they wear;
But you and me will have a pot of good Australian
beer—
And p’rhaps a second, lad, to show the first one how
to steer.
The chargin’ whistle sounds, old horse —I wish that
you were here.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
“Devilfish”: One of the many curious
things about wireless is the existence of
patches of “dead ground.” For instance, the
run from Papeete to ’Frisco is across the
base of an obtuse-angled triangle of which
the apex is at Honolulu. The wireless of
ships running from Papeete to ’Frisco can
easily get Honolulu when they first leave
Papeete; then it grows fainter, though they
are getting nearer to Honolulu all the time
till they are half-way across, which is as
close to Honolulu as they get on that trip,
and there it is hard to raise anything. Then
as they get nearer ’Frisco and further away
from Honolulu they hear the station better. If
there are hills or mountains handy they seem
to cast a shadow on a station ; it is said that
the reason the Hobart (Tas.) station is not
a success is that it is too close under Mt.
Wellington.
“Mooro”: Had a card from Billjim last
mail: “Dear Ned, —I am
All but those five words blacked out. On the
front the rubber stamp had not hit square,
“assed by Censor” it said. Quite so.
“Binnacle”: “Corio” (B. 14/6/’l7) sug-
gests that a derelict sighted near Port Mac-
quarie (N.S.W.) was the Rosedale. It
wasn’t —the supposed derelict turned out to be
a tree. Nor is there any hope that the 20 or
so people who were lost with the Rosedale
will ever come to the surface to explain.
Built of iron, and loaded with sleepers and
other hardwood, the old ship, after leaving
Nambucca, foundered permanently. Aus-
tralian hardwood, when waterlogged, is as
buoyant as kerbstones, whereas Maoriland
pine, like oregon from the Pacific Slope, will
float a leaky ship. On one occasion, after a
kauri-laden vessel had been abandoned 500
miles east of Sydney Heads, a warship was
going out to use the derelict as a target,
when she sailed herself into easy towing dis-
tance. But vessels built of iron, like the
Rosedale, Macleay, Koombana and Yongala,
when they founder, simply disappear from
human ken.
“Fleecer”: Government economy? Cer-
tainly. Take a recent experience of it. Some
time ago I sold a quantity of goods to the
foreman of a Department, receiving the
official order next day. This was duly
attached to the invoice and sent in. Weeks
later, the foreman ’phoned me, asking for a
copy of the account, the original having been
mislaid. I complied, attaching the duplicate
of the order. In due course I was paid on
the original account, and, later, the firm was
paid also on the duplicate. I pointed out
the error, guardedly, as I didn’t want any
official to be carpeted for it; but though
finally I went to the head himself, the only
satisfaction I got was the serene answer
that the Department had made two pur-
chases from the firm. I pointed out that we
had enough only for the original order, and
invited inspection of the stock-books; but
this offer was loftily declined. I duly re-
ported to my boss, who smiled cynically and
advised me to “wait and see whether the
fools will pay again.”
“Quidam”: When parts of the Blue
Mountains, back of Sydney, were surveyed,
a new-chum, raw to Australian conditions,
had one of those flashes which ought to sat-
isfy us that we shouldn’t attempt to do
things for ourselves because outsiders are
bound to know how to do them better. Every
block of land surveyed had a road right
round it. the brilliant intention being to
prevent disputes arising over boundary
fences! The result has been —well, worse
even than you might expect. Most of the
surveyed roads, being quite useless, have
been enclosed, but as no holder can legally
compel his neighbor to contribute half the
cost of. a dividing fence, in most cases the
approximate middle is adorned with a make-
shift log or brush fence, affording the best
O- shelter for rabbits and other pests be-
sides a fine supply of fuel for bush fires. As
most of the alleged roads can only be found
by reference to the map, strangers wonder
why boundary and dividing fences are fre-
quently so indifferent; but the npin who
inadvertently buys one of the properties, and
calls on his neighbor to pay half the cost
reason de fence ’ Speedi]y discovers the
• I{ < Sgic .Rubberstamp”: I have just re-
ceived a circular from our head (I’m in a
I edera! Department) telling me in big tvpe
that I am to economise in paper and im-
pressing upon me that it is a crime to waste
one sheet. But he has forgotten to alter
our departmental system. This is how
work at present:—
duplicate."’ *35 ilTSflol'u, “ b ,l “ ( f c "»»/'"
2K pS'd.l4 J&£
alone use in that way 180 sheets ’of foolscap pel
vtxz&ssr&rjr
same is written by him‘on sheet i tma ’ t h . e
on sheet 2, the boss has a go on shelt T T
accountant in the next office to m a’ the
right” on sheet 4, and the Chief replies that ? r,;
to stress of war economy it is regretted ” etc "t” 8
a■“ s »
.4’ STJSTit Du'nm*"'?
some three or four chaff bao-c . department alone
eluding economy circulars ° f WaSte ' >a P er . »>


fi
1 xm
h 1
? X-‘
». - .
I i k
EK
m
m.
'•ii!V. ii..,y
nlm!
. -
'.ln
i I
■
se
» ,Sf >.. f!
> .
W Ml
rr.
n t i
*
ii a *,
SPSS
"1 : Is 1]
ikv'
i
&>
'-■' *'. ■
«**^£SB«
m<
X
f. lf‘X: •
.v t Li &
\w
m
%y**>
-"r
cnii
?k,.%r i#
5«* S 3>X
: > >
&<f V*
/ fAA
p*
•-. *
IK
/ •'/// !
J
VX>
\1
mu
m
•' ,K.
■
>:Sr- i t
>;
<
wi.
*>-
f i ■>
?*SS. S3=“«3s:
Mi
•» ?/„. W*#*)
K
1 % * '
I, l
I I
Xy ,
r/11/
k»;
%
I
I
Si
Ms
</s
it
V‘A
' •
■>#
i
m
iP*
sm*
•--
fiiAr -in
sse;
Sss
‘
V -'•./- -;:.n
1 'S '^rS^y t sst^sr'--'>
w
\Y
WiOl
|j
X
V - N
MM
ie bci fearolie
IroinTcihs oblHoffmnn,
charming selection—perhaps not intrinsically a very
great composition —has spread the sweetness of its
haunting strains over the whole world. It possesses a depth
of feeling so elusive that frequently the finer effects are
lost. In its execution the expression is its all.
With a Beale Player-piano you will
find that it is not at all hard to play
music with characteristics similar to
the “Barcarolle.” It is an instrument
essentially responsive to one's best
musical thoughts, and is so sympa-
thetic that complete, soul-satisfying
rendition becomes almost instinctive.
Showroorm:
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
,ecile
yx>
&>0? UP
Si
Factories:
41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET.
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
And at Bathurst, Orange. Lismore. Newcastle. Coulburn. Wagga. Victoria : Maples In all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart.
Maples. Launceston South Australia : John Evans Ltd. Adelaide. Queensland : 90 92 Queen Street. Brisbane. Kent Street, Maryborough.
Flinders Street, Townsville Rockhampton. Sydney Street, Mackay. Cairns.


/
-S
ft
A
Ml 1
kit
%
Nervousness
When a sudden
fright makes you
jump or drop
things it is a sign
that the nerves
are unstrung and
probably the
whole system
run down. This
condition may be induced by too much work,
insufficient sleep, mental worries, an injury, or
the abuse of alcohol. As a preliminary, there
may be pains in the head, irritability, sleepless-
ness, general indisposition, headache, vomiting
and constipation.
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at once braces and steadies the nerves, irritation
departs, sleep and restful nights follow, and in
a very short time the whole system is restored
to a normal condition. Fishers Phospherine is
also taken for Backache, Rheumatism, &c. It
is good for indigestion. All chemists and stoics
1 - per Bailie. Fag timn the quantity. Z 6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemist*,
337 QEOBQE BTREET, SYDNEY, W.S.W
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Meats Ear Phone SVJSS!S'S
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars ol our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. 39iq City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
A Perfect
Custard.
u
%
*
a
AC
0>
POWDE
LJanilla
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO*,
Pure Food Specialists, SYDNEY.
A. H. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.
BRISBANE,
Sole Queensland Agents.
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
__T,« Th . e « Wond erful Old-World War Charm
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM
„ . . „ Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in Set. Gold, from JO/6 each
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.’
The Black Opal Store. 89 Market St.. Sydney!
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
c
fi
D
ft • t - -4row!n a sketching people ?*nd things and putting
Have you a liking for drawing for s ~g e to turn your talent for
your thoughts upon P% P ''f° in . i ri ns , and immensely profitable hobby
drawing fnto is a fascinating and mmenj yQu _ pretty
to be able to sketch ® nd sfi tver think what a pleasant and pro-
scenery, trees and old houses. Did you iver mum * drawing? Black
them, ine pro sketchm „ and who is properly trained.
There is no need for you to leave your home to
study this de!ight f ul and absorbingly interesting
art. You can study anywhere umier our up-to-
date system of correspondence instruction, with
which you have the help and guidance of a tront
rank artist If vou are anxious to develop your
talent for drawing so that you can make money
Copy this Sketch
and send it to us for
FREE Criticism
This places you under no obligation whatever;
it will merely give us an opportunity of judging
for you whether you have a talent for this class
of work. . . . , ,
When your sketch has been criticised by our
artist, we will return it to you together with our
deeply interesting illustrated literature dealing
with black and white drawing, which tells how
various kinds of drawings are done, what prices
are paid for drawings, the opportunities that are
open to you. as well as giving you some splendid
examples of modern black and white sketches.
oar.
m
So'
We teach you to draw and help
you to sell your sketches
When returning your sketch we will send
you full particulars of how we can teach
you Money Making Art, no matter where
you live. We will show you exactly what
our system of careful individual corres-
pondence instruction has done for others
and what it will do for you. Not only do
we develop your talent for sketching in a
modem, practical manner, but we also
give you valuable assistance in selling
your drawings, and show you how and
where to dispose of every kind of sketch
you execute to the best advantgae.
FREE
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET ...
Copy the sketch reproduced above and let
us see what you can do with it. We will
also send you free of charge our illustrated
booklet, “ Sketching for Pleasure and
Profit,” a unique production of ines-
timable value to anyone with a talent for
drawing. Kindly enclose 3d. in stamps
to cover cost of postage, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF SKETCHING
109 Exchange Corner, PITT 8 BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
f.
■ ;
« .*
Tk BULLETIN"
STOCK SADDLE
AND
Tk BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
The two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
igslcin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long flaps and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
stirrups, Girth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle. 3/6 Less if Stirrups rot required.
SHORTAGE OF STlRRUPS.—Customers
will help if they will use their old stirrups
until matters improve.
pnPT EI S T n fRffI FOR CASH T 0 ANY
PORT R RAIR WAY STATION in N. S.
, Por 3/6 extra for easing we will send
eight free to any direct port in Queensland,
Victoria, South Australia or N.Z.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 12/6, Post 1/-
SADDLECLOTH 6/6, Post 1/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS,
393 Ceorge Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
h
i
The British Brand
against foreign-made inferior goods
protects you
44
9%
1039
unshrinkable
Quality Stockings and Socks
TRaSSSS^-fi
•Ko* aodrf ™> Socto-whlch are
Tab on every pair. Draner' lhe ason
I» of d,Otototoaeverywhere.
A Hosiery Co.. Leleester, li,„.
T ™en“ lfow e h d at t„ th r e e aL° P from h ;h nld T*
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING.”'“
/e^' i •ickios- 4 re you going to
UlHng o kantr f Be, » iUm "•"* »«*«*
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) Will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS- Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily 'submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
lota : Where did yon learn all that? To
start with, you don’t know how to spell his name....
Dinkum: (1) If they were no better than the one to
hand their non-appearance is accounted for; (/) win
see about the other matter.... S.L.: “Tino” not up to
shocking-example standard 0.5.: If you dream like
that you should alter the brand Bake: What on
earth does it mean?... .A.H.N.: Nothing to-day,
thank you A.F.: Give it to the cat to play with.
She likes tangles....H.E.: “Feathers” is now an
abomination.... G.S.: “Flood and Flow” slopped over
into the basket....'C.D.: “White Coal” good idea,
but verse doesn’t carry it Ploda Long: One held
for inquest Namsus: “Dawn” goes feebly as if it
needed a crutch... .L.8.A.: Thin, with commonplace
tags R.E.: No reason why stuff like the “Wan-
derer” shouldn’t be turned out at the rate of 120
lines an hour by anybody who can hold a pen
W.C.K.: As feeble as the talk of a maiden aunt to
the curate M.E.F.: Not interesting... .Tom It.:
Well, for your persistence, here’s a bit of it:
Woman is clad from neck to knee, at the opera she
wears less, , ,
Her great ambition is to wear a fashionable dress.
History will repeat itself, and it is mere mans firm
belief
That fashion will again adopt the wearing of the leaf.
Vie: You caivt get feeling into that wobble-
and-bump stuff L.G.: “Trespasser” not up
Heidelberg: Neither yarn thrills us F.J.F.:
“Rossville” promising. There’s plenty of unused
local color up there, anyhow J.R.: “Sea Victim”
amounts to nothing P.F.: “Wind” wants more
care. Work at it....J.0.: Not up by some distance.
.... Nap: Sloppy stuff, thrown together anyhow, and
short of ideas.... Half Moon: Here’s the gist of it:
On Sunday morning to the church the people came
With pious mien and airs for such occasions kept.
Hell laughed—down in the dark haunts of evil fame
Over a girl forsaken the Lord in pity wept.
. ...A.F.P.: “Having noticed in several issues of
The Bulletin several pieces of good poetry” you
decided to send us a piece of your own composition.
It was a kindly thought, so here’s some of it:—
When the call had sounded,
Some said this and that.
Most of them just stayed here
Sitting on the mat.
Some are glad-eye persons-
Couldn’t leave their jobs,
While others, brave and hardy men,
Joined the soldier mobs.
But later on will come a day,
A day God only knows,
When there will he far worse to face
Than fighting German foes.
The Judgment Day will surely come
When we shall stand at God’s Great Throne,
A memory shall be given each,
We’ll have to practice what we preach.
. ...R.M.: “Aversions” not our style... .8.J.D.:
Leading man goes a bit thin. .. .M.A.: “Annette”
doesn’t stir an emotion... .C.C.: Not body enough in
it. .. .S.C.J.: “Peter Anderson and Co.” is one of
Henry Lawson’s best-known early pieces of verse. It
is in the volume “In the Days When the World Was
Wide.” Ask any bookseller... .1.M.L.: Artificial
yarn moving heavily... .J.H.: “Clipper” misses, but
the ideas are good.. . . 8.K.: Doesn’t quite hit....
R.R.H.: Awful... .F.A.F.: Cow doesn’t sing here.
....Marietta: Domestic yarn fails to grip... .A.S.:
“Madonna” well enough written, but your lack of
knowledge of the wheels the yarn tries to run on is
stupendous.... G.R.M.K.: Sample:—
It amuses one to look and see
Going through the streets of Sydney
Fashionable motors with fashionable ladies
Flying the flag of the Win-the-War League.
Neither Keats nor Shelley ever wrote anything like it.
. ...F.V.E.: Graceful verse which doesn’t matter.
A.J.S.: It’s always the Kaiser and the Devil,
but the Devil doesn’t mind if you’d only roast him
in good verse M.F.M.: Very well written, but not
our style Ratagot: Quite a matter of opinion, of
course, whether the Chief Justice should get as much
pay as the court crier or the chief engineer as much
as the lamp-trimmer. We prefer our own E.C.,
Brayne (East Africa) : Thanks, but can’t reprint
H.M.: Glad to hear that your pen would not keep
pace with your thoughts Anti: The Bulletin did
nothing of the sort. What it did was to apply for
exemption for one man, not from foreign service, but
from a month’s home training during the Referendum
campaign E.M.L.: All right; we’ll repatriate
portrait-painter Stella Lewis Marks, and make her
a Victorian. Still some Queenslanders have been
quite respectable people.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.T.: Sorry... .W.J.C.: Not a smile in it....
G.S.: How long did it take you to hammer that
out? R-W.: Your soldier correspondents are too
hopeful A.V.D.: No John R. F.: Why not?
It was by no means hopeless A.K.: That tiled
Hades looks like the entrance to a picture show-
E.S.: 'Where did you get the coster lady with the
apron and shawl?
From an Australian in camp in England:
I am again attached to an R.F.A. Battery, which
means the nearest thing to luxury you ever get at
this life now. That is to say, there is a tremendous
appearance of lavishness. The messroom and ante-
room swarm with servants who click their heels
together and bow deferentially before announcing
lunch or dinner. There are armchairs and bridge-
tables and papers everywhere. Superficially we lead
a life of cultured ease. On the other hand, no one
has enough to eat. I personally am always hungry
a rotten feeling which I now know for the first time
m my life. Take dinner here. We have soup which
is like tinted water, a very thin slice of meat and a
few turnips or carrots (you never get a second help-
ing), a tiny bit of suet-pudding with treacle or some-
thing of that sort and biscuits and butter—or mar-
garine The bread is incredibly old and dry and
mud-colored, and no one could possibly want
tha , n ° ne bit of it. By having a
whisky and soda (stiff), a couple of glasses of port,
coffee and a cigar (there is plenty of all these
things) one gets an illusion of having had a square
meal; but it lasts only about an hour. Sitting
P -T" g . , bnd " e after dinner (at 6d. a hundred)
with evidences of wealth all round in the form of
furniture and servants, I find myself brooding miser-
ably on fillets of steak, roast fowls, real bread
genuine butter, civilised vegetables and other things
that I once accepted as a matter of course And
the shortage has only just begun. Three or four
everything! 0 ’ X ’ *** SUpplies of


: '
,
m
&
: sn
I
m
The High Cost of Low-Price Tyres
The low-price tyre is a gamble, and your satis-
faction is the stake.
You risk the use of your motor-car investment,
the pleasure if might afford you, the sure
economy of buying reputable products —all
on the lure of lower first-cost.
It doesn’t pay.
It doesn’t pay -any more than a cheap strap in
a good harness pays, or a scrub sheep in a
flock of Merinos.
It doesn’t pay because questionable value means
questionable service, every time -in motor
tvres as in anything else. And when all is
said and done, only the wear you get for the
price you give determines the extravagance
or economy of the tyre you buy.
Figured on this basis, the solid basis of common-
sense, Goodyear Tyres are the soundest
purchase in the tyre market to-day.
One after another the motorists of Australia are
learning this, and profit thereby. These
buyers would not choose Goodyear Tyres
unless they got more for their money.
More —in miles, in comfort, in security, in free-
dom from trouble; in all that goes to make
up exceptional and satisfactory service.
The growth or decline of any business depend*
inevitably upon the character of the article
produced.
The public is not slow to appraise this character,
and to reward it in just proportion to its
excellence.
Thus, to the discerning person, the fadt that
more Goodyear Tyres are sold in the United
vStates than any other brand is deeply
significant.
And as deeply significant is the further fact that
Goodyear Tyres are daily attaining increased
popularity in Australia.
The first fact admits of but one conclusion: Good-
year Tyres more ably than any others meet
the wish of the average motorist.
The second fact supplements this conclusion with
evidence that Goodyear Tyres consistently
are preferable, and as such are coming into
wider and wider use every day.
Both conclusions should bear heavily with you
in the selection of tyres for your car.
Both recommend directly that your selection
should be Goodyear Tyres.
THE GOODYEAR TYKE & BI BBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.
Branches anrl Agencies in all principal cities.
Dealers and Service Stations everywhere throughout Australasia.
t!
■' V
.....
..
Wi
or
v *. ?*'
*•*
< 3.
: ‘■: ‘
i ;


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E NOLAN D,
| i« DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cahines-ac-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads an
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply - . ~ >-
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BLNDABERG
*ROCKHAMpTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for r
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, July 7.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, July 11
Leaves Sydney, July 14.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, July 18.
Leaves Sydney, July 21.
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, July 14.
* Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, Public Coinnan.es. &c.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 25.3 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Hankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
I>.terminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 6
All new business since IR9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. :
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— lV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... Hit IS IIANE.
Branches—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial janking (Jo.
of Sydney, [limited.
Capital Paid-up . .
Reserve Fuad ■ -> .
KesOrve Capital . .
J;
i, Established 1834.
. £2,000,000
V. 1.900,000
j )<->.> | 2,000,000
£5,900.000 0 0
' /Directors: ■
George J. ConF.v t «i:sq. ' 1 Minin
Hon. H. J 3. Kater, M.UQ Wpiilv-Chainnarr.
I Hon. u. MW/tt.L^?.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T F Knox -Esc
Ho&Ojtary- -Direitor: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs 1 •
General Majnager: 11. 11. Mas-ie.
Head Office: 343 George St.. SYDNEY"
London Office: 18 Bit'chin Lane, E.( .
Branches throughout Ne;w,Spyth,Wfterftnd, Queens-
land. Agencies throughout We World. n 1 ?1 1
ttud
Bank of Oeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner CiHORtiH and WYNYARD
o I Kbt 1
Guaranteed Stock.
Preference Shares.
Ordinary Shares
■ Paid-up '*a .
t'ncalled Capital .. /50Q QQA
Reserve Fund. Undivided Profits 2,246*59'?'
• • . . £ 599 Qfifi
*1*000,000» >ri ,
GRANTS DRAFTS
liritai
Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interewf
transact* all other usual Banking
lor
ami
f-'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Jfcc.
Cana d ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS IRA DING BETWEE:
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANAI **; * t AKFS
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES. PRAIRIE'S. G
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER. VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL P.E SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Ho’'day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC -
Send, for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD f| 9 Bridge Street.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3.894,980
£10,589.960
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
I he lion. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. Eosbery, CJd'.ii"., lu iI.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer Esq.
Head Offico George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St EC
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London *
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nes-n
tinted and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
.T. FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
IBank* Bustralta
SYDNEY.
fSr po a ".. General Banking Business p ;, n ncr pa i
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct Forei™
f s 'transacted*°wiUdr^
fixed deposits 6 AdvancesVade agaTnst ° Pened ‘ Inter6St paid on
bum fir 1 . Savings Bank Department
kfl> Minimum
■/ Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at o°/
per annum “/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL
Savings Bank Facilities.
jjTjA.M£S 15151,1*,, DfcpavriGcjT^rnor.
June, 1916
DENISON- MILLER, Goreruor
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
... ’ ' ° IiIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
•Reserve Fund £95,000
' rr lA ! !K c SIIKLDOiTi Esq./ Chairman;:
YARWO<)D,‘ Esq.;’ it.
SSi sSTmM
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon. '
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).: Manager : E. P. Carr,
BRANCHES: .
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector lor
Queensland: .1. N. H. Bmnvv P 1
(; . H - Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C )
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
and Queensland. Agents throughout the ret o
Australia Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
_Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
T 1 anybody charges you more than Gd for
£10? oi"l e 2 C ,Tr.° £ T ™
r. 1 to 214 George Street. Sydney nnri
it will be posteo to you for one year. *
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
is now ob-
tainable at
no cost of
energy and
very small
one of
money, by
using a
Wheel,
On sale by all the "following 'linns'
Wnte or call for particulars.
D St t ! y Me"b°ourne Pl R 8 n° ® Uzabeth
Edward B^! 5 ’ T hiHp
» Xr Cr z:
Western Australia ° eo ‘
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
PARINGA, Saturday, July 7.
MORI ALTA, Saturday, July 14.
IiITPARA, Saturday, July 21.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Transhipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Cilice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,” “Wimmera,”
“ llimaroa,” "Victoria.”
"Riverina,” " Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS
HOBART AND SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITIi,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
"J"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
lhe Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination tickets are issueu m conjunction witu
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to incluue first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to '1 weed Heads— steamer to Mutwillumbaii,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or ClaVence Rivera,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
-teamer. L. 6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
I .S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,0C0 tons
1 .5.5. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
5.5. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
H,' r T iStS ai l d s / e 'vers after a health trip and also
7® a -° f beauliful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
tC \ date arran =ements for convenience and corn-
first’n^rf k if g t ii av n? safe, easy and pleasant. After
intprohn xf ’ Second Saloon Tickets are
witwvf 6 al . ! Interstate Companies, also
vith the Lmon S.S. Co. s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
DailyCUpaperf a PP lication - For dates of sailing see
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
T S Ra U d the British Austral-
asian, bd. weekly—an illustrated paper
trfrn imng a mail and cable news from Aus-
tralm and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
to -J ISlt the British Austsalasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hoi-
L ri ondon ’ C -. where they can the
teWhr,n aPerS • their friends - USe tIN
charge ’ and obtiHn inf °nnation without


A KodaK adds to
every pleasure you enjoy
■-i
mm
mmmmmmmrnm
■H I
' I;
m-
m
•V
...V'. <
,
mm
* .** .
••-•TV. *
You need never be lonely when you have a
Kodak. It is a companion that adds interest
to everything you do; that multiplies your
every enjoyment.
A happy moment pictured by your Kodak
will be a source of pleasure all your life.
A Kodak will enable you to hold fast to the
memory of your holidays, your outings and
your travels; it will give you pictures of your
children, your friends, your home-life and your
pastimes and hobbies.
You can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour, and they are
priced from 30/= to £l5/2/=.
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is splendid for
views, groups and portraits. Takes the popular postcard
pictures — x inches. Price £5 10/=
Ask for YOUR copy of a Kodak booklet.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
(Incorporating Baker 8 Rouse Prop. Ltd.)
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba Theatre), Valley; 37 Bundle St.,
Adelaide; 15 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Buthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St.,
Bockhampton; 316 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner Earnbton Quay and Willis St., Wellington,
N.Z.; 3 Borne St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
Special Gossard Corsets
for Slender Women.
During tlie past few years we have added to the Gossard line over forty different models for slender
women, and the success of these models has been exceptional. The smartest-dressed slender women
in every style-centre choose these special Gossard front-lacing models for what they add to the style
and comfort of their wearers.
We know your objections to every corset you have ever tried—we know just how particular and
exacting you are in your demands. If other smartly-dressed slender women choose Gossards over
all other makes, why don’t you ?
Ideal Tall and Short
Slender Figures
'.IM-
If you are of either of these two figure types,
your waistline can be lengthened or short-
ened, your hip line rounded, your lower back
confined, and you will never be conscious
of your corset. You have your choice of
many models, in materials that give you long
service and which are beautiful in appear-
ance.
An expert corsetiere, who understands -your
figure requirements, will deem it a pleasure
to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women
of AUSTRALIA by
Allan Stark, Ltd., Brisbane.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd., Melbourne.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat.
Farmer & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
James Marshall & Co., Adelaide.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
n NEW ZEALAND by
J. Ballantyne & Co., Christchurch.
The Drapery and General Importing
The Drapery and General Importing
The Drapery and General Importing
George & Kersley, Ltd., N.Z., “The
J. Ballantyne & Co., Tiniaru.
Co., of New Zealand, Christchurch.
Co., of New Zealand, Lyttelton.
Co., of New Zealand, Wellington.
Economic,” Wanganui.
Herbert Hayes & Co., L/td., Dunedin.
W. Lewis & Co., Invercargill.
Milne & Choj’ce, Ltd., Auckland.
Ideal
Short Slender
Figure.
Ideal
Tall Slender
Figiu e.


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
RESIDE and DINE at
The
Australia
Hotel,
SYDNEY
Suites
de luxe.
Rooms with
Bath & Balcony.
European or
American Plan.
Private
Safe Deposit.
Spacious
Winter Carden.
Cuisine
par excellence.
Crill Rooms
a la carte.
Afternoon Teas
and Suppers.
Recherche
Dinners.
Weddings
Catered for.
Address: THE MAVAOER
CHANDLERS” DO NOT ‘\SKID
SO EVENLY 15 THE CAR BALANCED.
CHANCE- OF SKIDDING REDUCED TO A MINIMUM.
yy
42
y
THL CHANDLER SIX.
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Ltd.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR N.S.W.
Garage and
Showrooms:
162 Castlereagh St„ Sydney.
snow-storms, and °w /ili ,?/'To a u * omob 1 1 e ’ especially after one of our numerous
figure that something had been overbooked ° ha T’ - vou naturally would
when I dropped in at the Achen l that was the way 1 felt about it
“Brownie” in the Milwaukee Journal. 0 ' qUarters ’ dist nbuters for the Chandler,”
to ride 6 with f ° r >OU ’ Said Frank sheeren . the company’s representative, who was
‘/What about chains?” I inquired.
“OhT rePHed With a -il-
is not exactly lady-like ” ’ d 1 warn - vou beforehand that mv style of driving
JH*g. % .‘VMS’JasjS.Si'.i
turns and „ L
necessity of chains. - ■=
“What’s Tasked I * B 1 " let with failure.
“No,” he replied *"
So evenly is the eara 1 a need *1 ha t ! uV/ ° LE ?’ S , N Y FEATURES.
That sounded all right, but still I was r fi re^ uced to a minimum.”
open country I gave tin- ear every oppm-tunßv /l u Sat ! sfied ‘ °n my way out to the
across the icy roads on Prospect Avenue sbn?7 l tS cha raeter, faking short cuts
a smr>«rß k ’ but / he biff car held to the ’road ft a Stop * on the smooth surfaces in
is nn f thn< n\u hlch spoke wonders for its pquinment passed . over th e rough spots with
Ohio!i° P rn n i t 9 h 1 e 7 which 1 put i? tlrrougl^S R
- RING CITY 8862 ANI) arrange a demonstration.
IN BANANA LAND
Horse enthusiast Ernest Baynes continues
to strenuously advocate the improvement of
the Australian neddy. The Chamber of
Agricultural Societies is now giving him a
hearing. Baynes reckons three things neces-
sary to remedy the steady deterioration he
sees in progress: (a) The registration of all
stallions standing for public service, and a
stallion tax; (b) that no stallion be allowed
to land in Queensland from the other States
or abroad unless accompanied by a Govern-
ment veterinary certificate for soundness,
type and conformation; and (c) that the
export of mares be prohibited. The matter,
however, requires attention from more than
one State. The horse is of national import-
ance, and uniform action throughout the
Commonwealth is necessary if the Austra-
lian moke is to be saved from running down
to cab-rank standard.
“Trees”: There’s no tired feeling about
the young tallow-woods and blackbutts on
Fraser Island up north. Local people are
prepared to swear that trees of which the
seed was planted in January, 1914, had
grown anything from 40 to 43 feet by
January, 1917. There is a local myth that
Jack’s beanstalk was on Fraser Island.
“Chink” : The Bulletin’s old contributor
“O. C. Cabot” (E. N. MacCulloch), after
putting in 18 merry months as associate-
editor of Brisbane Daily Mail, has blos-
somed out as a proprietor. His venture, a
bright eight-page weekly, the Humpybong
Halcyon, is the incarnation of a myth
created by “Cabot” when digging at oppo-
nents of the Mail. While glancing about
the world at large the Halcyon is to cater
chiefly for Moreton Bay townships—to
“amuse, entertain and interest,” and be
“quite unlike any other paper published in
Australia.”
The man who temporarily blocked the
entry into politics of Brenner
out at Brisbane the other day. This was
James Brennan, who defeated Ryan for Rock-
hampton North in 1907. Three years later
Ryan went west and won the Barcoo a„ainst
George Kerr, a former Minister for Rail-
ways. Brennan was a staunch Kidstonite,
and of the type a leader likes—a man who
voted party always and asked no questions.
~ »B J S.” : Although the State elections are
not billed till next year, both parties are busy
clearing the decks. The old anti-Labor ship
which has sailed under many aliases is being
repainted, and it looks as if the name a
eral” will be shed in favor of National.
Jim Tolmie, who is at present on the bridge,
is apparently not to be captain when the con-
flict starts. A big, good-natured fellow, he
is not fitted to make thunder. The party is
looking for a leader, and Wulhe Kidston
is being approached. But ‘A ullie isn t
THE POINT OF VIEW.
PUB ORATOR: "I wish I could live f'rever —I shay I wish I could live f'rever!"
THE OTHER BLOKE: “Oh. wot rot! What would y'do with yesself?”
THE ORATOR: “Yesh, thatsh all very well —you can. ’ave yer ’Euven and yer 'Ell, but give
me Australia.”
eager; he prefers his snug job on the
Land Court. Apart from him the Liberals
can’t think of a leader who would be any-
thing like a match for Ryan in tactics. That
is really what the recent vote over the aboli-
tion of the Leg. Council amounted to —a con-
fession of the weakness of Liberal represen-
tation in the Assembly.
Another early Bananalander has slipped
off—Thomas Ridley, of Tynedale, Aspley.
He came from Neweastle-on-Tyne in the sail-
ing-boat Melmubly in ’65, and started sugar-
growing at Doughboy (now Plemmant),
later giving the same industry a turn on the
rich-soiled Buderim Mountain. After a spell
at tanning in the Ma State the enei-getic
pioneer returned to Aspley (then Cabbage-
tree Creek), where he camped till the end.
Passed out, J. M. Cavaye, one of Gympie’s
best-known citizens. An Edinburgh man, he
had been at Gympie since ’B3. He served
with the 2nd Q.M.I. forces in S’Africa, and
when that contingent left for home remained
with a commission in Doyle’s Australian
Scouts. The old warrior, though well past
military age, made an unsuccessful attempt
to get into the present big scrap, and has
since been on home service. A son was
killed in France in December.
Grey Farm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘The battle raged about Grey Farm.” Cable.
Grey Farm! I seem to picture you with
walls of roughened stone
And frail shell-pinks of peach, and cloud-
white pear about you blown,
And poplars that across the roof their spires
of shade have thrown.
Your garden would be full of bees and tall
French hollyhocks,
Pale lavenders, and privet hedge, and tour-
leaved “ladies’ smocks”;
Coquetting with the formal paths a flare ot
scarlet phlox.
There would be willows by the stream, and
fields where violets spring.
And sometimes, through the pinewood s
hush, a merry bird would sing ;
A cricket answer from the grass; the rustle
of a wing.
Ea petite mere towards the door with high-
dressed hair would come,
And she would watch across the fields lie r
stalwart son stride home
Through twilight air all sweet with bloom
and rich with new-turned loam.
Grey Farm! The shadow of a dream!
Your walls go with a crash,
The scream of shells, the roar of guns, the
piercing lightning flash !
Grey Farm, you are a smoking heap of shat-
tered roofs and ash,
And trodden grass and buried flowers, and
poplars split with storm —
La metre is there no more to give a welcome
quick and warm....
Though something on the threshold lies in
bloody uniform.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 30, 191 <•
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Our jaunting Ministers, after revelling m
the sunny North, are foregathering at Bris
bane again for the opening of the last session
of the Parliament. Premier Ryan, back from
Rockhampton and Mackay, is straining on
his collar in a semi-legal argument with h
keenest opponent, Macartney, M.L.A., wno
is out on the Barcoo saying things about the
boss that would be interesting if they
weren’t the usual political make-believe.
Home-Secretary Huxham has been looking
around the Westbrook Reformatory, and
breathlessly announces that under his man-
'agement “the 60 boys in the home are no
longer sullen in demeanor, but bright, cheer-
ful and clean.” Shut your eyes, my dear,
tilt your shell-like ear, and I’m sure you’ll
be able to hear what e#-Home Sec. Appel
has to say to that.
Closed to-day, by retirement, the long and
creditable career of R. 11. Roe, inspector-
general of Bananaland schools. English
by birth, he came to Australia in ’76, and
took the position of headmaster of Brisbane
Grammar, in succession to Harlin, the first
principal. That kept him busy till eight
years ago, when he was appointed inspector-
general by the Kidston Ministry. The
vacancy now created is to be filled by A. S.
Kennedy, chief inspector.
At the end of the first wool season under
the British Government’s acquisition scheme
there was a smart dinner party at the Belle
Vue Hotel, Mr. J. McGregor, the appraiser,
being the guest of honor. The tables were
decorated with scarlet gerberas, with true-
lovers’-knots of scarlet gauze and maiden-
hair-fern. The rascals!
Corporal Henry Morgan .Tones, of Goodna.
lately killed, was one of 16 cousins on the
war trail. One fell on Gallipoli, three in
trance, four have been invalided home and
the rest are still hard at it.
The funds to furnish the Residential Club
for returned soldiers and sailors benefited
klwi anticipations from a concert pro-
moted by a number of R-C. ladies and held in
Fvbihition Hall. Amongst those who
were E glad b that they attended were the State
Treasurer and Mrs. Theodore the Mayor of
Brisbane and Mrs. Hethenngton and Arch-
S3S Duhig. The songs of contralto Ivy
Norman were a feature.
Friends of S. M. Salisbury, of Sandgate,
are rejoicing with him over cabled news that
his son. Colonel A. G Salisbury has been
awarded the French Region of Honor in
addition to the English D.S.O. Colonel
Salisbury was on Gallipoli with a Queens-
land battalion, but is now commanding
South Aus. battlers.
The Labor Women’s Vigilance Committee
introduced to Home Sec. Huxham this week
•i scheme for the establishment ot an infants
home in Brisbane. The deputation urged
that the Government’s responsibility was
admitted by the Infant Life Protection Act.
but the Minister shook his head. He said
that there was no money available, and
hinted that Uncle’s pocket couldn’t be opened
with a steel drill. The best he (the Home
Sec ) could say was that he hoped to start
baby clinics in' a small way almost immedi-
ately.
Mrs W T. Bouchard gave an afternoon-
tea at’the patriotic Coo-ee Cafe on Wednes-
day in honor of Mrs. Ward (Sydney) and
he ladies who went south with the Banana-
land bowlers recently. Crimson roses figured
prominently in the table-decorations and
songs brightened the programme. Mrs,
Bouchard’s daughter, Mrs. M. B. Petersen,
lent mamma assistance in passing the billy
and damper.
Miss Lamb, late matron of the Gayndah
Hospital, is listed for duty with the A.I.F.
Before she left her post at Gayndah the com-
mittee and staff pressed upon her some solid
good wishes.
There is sorrow in the Esk district over
the death of George A. McNeill. An only
brother, also in khaki, has been missing for
several weeks, and the father died a few
days ago. If sympathy can assuage her
grief the widowed mother has it all.
Died at Dalby, George Imber. well known
in Sydney and Brisbane for his connection
with Dafgety’s, and better still as an ama-
teur boxer, fisherman and sailing man. He
had been ailing for many months. Two sons
are with the Queenslanders in France.
Higli-Commissioner Andy Fisher has a
friendly way with kings. When George V.
lately reviewed Australian troops and pre-
sented decorations. Ahndrew was on hand in
a dark suit beautifully creased and a shaggy
winter haircut. Presently he was “pre-
sented” to the King, who spoke affably to
him for the regulation few minutes and then
stepped back, intimating that the conversa-
tion was at an end. But Andy had
other ideas and promptly stepped forward.
There was another handshake—evidently in-
tended to be final. Still Andy chatted on
eagerly, and—then the King laughed ! That
was enough: the friendly chap from Aus-
tralia promptly set to work again. Portly
Newton Moore, however,' came to the rescue
of the Throne, and all was over.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


HAW AND HAW ,
Hand Balancers and
Exponents of Physical
Development.
ht
A
h.
mf:
Men Who Value
Health and Strength
* USE
MEAN’S TONIC
NERVE NOTS
The Reliable Home Remedy for
Nervous Breakdown
Mental Depression
Insomnia
Neuritis
Backache
Headaches
Overwork
Palpitation
Anaemia
Rheumatism
And Other Disorders of the Nervous System.
ME. CHAS. BATES, of Haig and Haig, the popular and entertaining
hand-balancers and exponents of physical development, is an ad\ocate ot
the use of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS, because of their nerve-build-
ing and strength-sustaining properties. He says: ‘T advise everyone vho
values health and strength to use Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts. they help
those who are well to keep well; while those who have become the victims
of nervous breakdown will find Nerve Nuts of great value as an aid to the
regaining of their health.”
Letters are being received every day from all parts of Australia sounding
the praises of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS, which have worked
wonders for the users.
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS purify and enrich the blood, and
replenish the nervous system. They do not contain any cardiac stimulants
or opiates, which, by their action on the heart and brain, buoy the patient
up or soothe for the time being, but have an inevitable depressing after-
effect which calls for more and still more drugging. When the nervous
system is built up by the aid of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS, such
ailments as headaches, backache, dyspepsia, neuralgia and other neuias-
thenic conditions disappear : insomnia gives way to natural sleep, and the
capacity for work, both mental and physical, is wonderfully increased.
Try a course of this valuable preparation. If you experience difficulty
in obtaining HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS from your Chemist or
Store, do not accept any inferior substitute, but send to me and your order
will be filled by return mail. The price is: Small boxes l/~, huge size
(containing double quantity), 3/- per box, or six for 17/3.
G. W. HEAN,
Manufacturing
Chemist, Jc?
178 CastlereagH Street, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Soldiers Express Appreciation
of
HEENZO
(Registered Name for HEAN’S ESSENCE)
THE GREAT MONEY-SAVING REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, CATARRH,
And Other Chest and Throat Troubles
New Zealand Expeditionary Forces,
C Company, 24th Reinforcements,
May 8, 191
MR. G. W. HE AN,
Chemist.
Opfli* jj* -
As users of Heenzo (Hean’s Essence) who have found the prepara-
tion of the greatest possible efficacy in checking new colds and curing
old ones, we desire to place on record our appreciation of your great
money-saving remedy for Coughs and Colds. W hile in England and
France we shall miss no opportunity of making known the merits of
Heenzo.
With best wishes,
Bugler H. B. SUTCIAFFE,
Private A. F. ASHBOLT,
We remain,
Yours truly,
Private R. BUCHANAN,
Private T. G. RISK.
Among Nearly 5000 Other Testimonials
received from satisfied users of HEENZO are many from Australian and
New Zealand soldiers who have gone forth to fight the cause of Liberty,
Justice and Humanity. Some write to say that while in their billets they
have been able to get' HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) mixed up for them;
others ffill how serviceable a few drops of the pure essence, added to a little
sugar or chocolate, has been to them in combating colds while in their
trenches and dug-outs. While HEENZO is always a welcome item m
parcels received bv our gallant soldiers at the Front, in the homes of the
people HEENZO' has come to be regarded as an indispensable article,
because of its efficacy in the treatment of coughs and colds and because of
the great economy it effects.
Costs 2!—Saves 10|-
HEENZO (Hean’s Essence), when diluted and sweetened according to
easy directions supplied with each bottle, produces a pint of superior-
quality Mixture. A pint of ordinary Cough Remedies would cost at least
12/-/ HEENZO costs only 2/-
If you do not need a large supply of cough mixture, ask for HEENZO
COUGH DIAMONDS. They' are made for the convenience of those who
do not need a large supply of mixture. They cost 9d. and 1/- per box,
and are used extensively by singers and public speakers.
BOTH REMEDIES are obtainable Tom all leading Chemists and Stores,
or by post from 0. W. HEAX. Manufacturing Chemist, IvB Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; or Box 131 0.P.0., Brisbane.


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
CARTERS
lITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Smalt Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS,PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents :
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
Cures Colds,
Huskiness, and
Nasal Catarrh.
NO WATER, TUMBLER,
or SPOON NEEDED.
CINNAK
Cinnak is a pink powder in an
air-tight tube. Shake a little on
to the palm of the hand and trans-
fer to the tongue. The Cinnak
gasifies immediately, permeates
the air passages, and at once
relieves the stuffiness. It steri-
lises the cold germs and the cure
is begun.
The Cinnak tube is air-tight
and unbreakable, and can be car-
ried in the pocket. An occasional
dose prevents infection.
Carry a Cinnak tube
yourself and send one in
each parcel to France.
CINNAK IS SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
16 PER TUBE 1/6
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
OOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box
&2L Strand, i.nmiJ
(fjPILMRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
<7
QUICKLY !
The ideal prepara-
tion for growing
those short, stubbv
moustaches affected
bv the military is
undoubtedly Capil-
larine. Hundreds
have proved its un-
failing merit. Send
for a .Tar to-day.
Price 10/6 Jar-Post Free.
Craig 8 Aitkcn, 65^° N r | e y st -.
Established over 30 years.
A £l4 Machine
With 5 pg | a
Drawers, 10 IUS.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
lacked and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
vir.Tnpi a
TF anybody charges you more than Gd for
n «H ng t e of The Bulletin, send
ft „fi'i u' to George Street. Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one vear.
§3
fefl
S'.,
Vc
THIS instep-strap shoe has been speeialli
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
prettv shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off bv an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that srpait.
Cuban heel which makes -walking so comfort-
able, it reallv is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other ar.d equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostoek ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostock No.
OqBoo
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
82(5
Cl
(3--^
w.
di
e
ftetismi
«
ea;
T)RUiv
lAiNf
a
&
m
w
%
W'
UUU
/
, *WL.
X
ey ■ JLL«
UNIQUE PROCESS FOR
RETAINING AND
REGAINING BEAUTY.
By Mi.le. Charlotte Sirier.
Does your skin chap or roughen easily, or become
unduly red or blotchy? Let me tell you a quick and
easy way to overcome the trouble and keep your com-
plexion beautifully white, smooth and soft. Just get
some ordinary mercolised wax at the chemist’s, and
use a little before retiring as you would use cold
<l a ea ™- 1 " e ' vax > through some peculiar action, flecks
off the rough, discolored or blemished skin. The
worn-out cuticle comes off just like dandruff on a
diseased scalp, only in almost invisible particles. Mer-
cohsed wax simply hastens Nature’s work, which is
the rational and proper way to attain a perfect com-
plexion, so much sought after but very seldom seen.
The process is perfectly simple and quite harmless.
* * * ij!
fmm *!?« "umber of women who suffer
from unsightly growths of hair on the face, and it
.1. come as a piece of good news to know that
Dhemir.nl substance k,l own as powdered
\< h wIU re ,move it immediately and per-
S a fl mti MlX t small , quantlt .v into a thin paste
Growths 1 tt T le e Water ’- Bnd apply t 0 the objectionable
growths In two minutes ail trace of the hair will
and e sro[h l ls V rihOd d ’s. and >OUr WiH be aS Soft
fi ] a m r Q rhoU l id be , aliowed to breathe, and the
f mfld Xr each u trand must be removed with
tabbed T, kai \ e shampoo. Soaps should be
be mflrip hv V H- ry ? e * st solutlon f or the purpose can
granules in b p dlssol Y l ’s a teaspoonful of stallax
fcaln tn n " m, CUP hot , water - It stimulates the
the in +, action, and at the same time leaves
admired. Any chemist can witWn
30 g shamp P oos ket ° f StaDaX ’ make % lr
nedient "of d reso . rt to the very questionable ex-
pedient of hair-dye in order not to have grey hair
natural color lr in Ca n n f eaBil J b , e char^ed back to a
Sc « ln a few da ys’ time merely bv the
. pphcatmn of a simple, old-fashioned and' perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from tout
SWwSVT 8 " 0f tammalite concentrate, ‘and
th? three ounces of bay rum. Apolv this to
the hair a few times with a small sponge ‘and you
Jrn i °n n 5 nV , e tle P lea?ur e of seeing you? g?ey hair
f,p“i?®, t 0 the desired sbade - The‘lotion
the P hair "n any £?? ° T and d ** injure
DIAMONDS—
FEW PROCURABLE.
Germans. Amsterdam fs* prevented " 0W is occu P ied by
able to cut, because of iL v • exporting those it is
Ainerii ean^ut^mondshi E ”" la, ' d “or
ronside ,'de rise in the price? hence .there has been a
world o< . PlCes of these Popular gems all the
nfter war >■*> 'eclared' we 'bought they slumped i llst
position to ,1v all demands for tho, '? ands > and so are in the
raising our ,bove our famous low 13 t ™ onths without
have not incieas-.. he price ofTdli P 7 quotations. So far we
-y we are selling ♦ l ess than the' ? pr cSTlS^?&£? "**
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
THO ft Irlnni. I ..
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
& 25 HUNTER Sir eet .
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
Fine diamonds,
set in platinum,
with platinum
neck chain,
£lO/10/-
Fine diamonds,
set in platinum,
with platinum
neck chain,
£l2/10/-
A divorce case fought to a successful issue
in Melbourne the other day was Virtue r.
Virtue. Jolly the co-respondent.
The ease, we fear we’re forced to own,
Improves the wowsers’ plea
That Virtue falls if ’tis too prone
To .'lolly eompanee.
It is not always a Jew even when it isn't
a Scotchman. In fact, it was an Australian
of English parentage who admitted in a Mel-
bourne court recently that when he gave his
young lady the engagement ring he took a
signed and stamped receipt.
The Rev. J. H. McKay, Port Melbourne
Presbyterian, is attracting attention to his
hunt for the truly-moral man. Any person
with an unquestionably virtuous gentleman
concealed in his clothes is urged to submit
the sample without delay. The clergyman
admits that his assiduous hunt has been
profitless up to now, and on the strength of
his failure lie declares, in a loud, defiant
voice: “There is not one physically, morally
and intellectually perfect man in Australia.
I have not discovered one man or woman
who gives all his or her time and talents to
God.” The Rev. McKay has been searching
with ordinary spectacles—he should be given
a looking-glass. But why does he demand
physical perfection along with moral and
intellectual excellence? It seems to have been
done deliberately to exclude [censoredJ.
Boyd Cable, The Bulletin’s old contrib-
utor and brilliant war-writer, explodes in his
latest book a favorite excuse of the locally
war-weary—that the weight of any future
troops Australia might be able to send could
not pull down the scale of victory. Cable
tells how war ultimately boils down to little
desperate struggles between small groups of
men—the spearheads of the armies. And
one man more or less in a group means the
success or failure of that part of the line.
Colonel J. G. Austin, until recently Assist-
ant Ordnance Director to the First Anzac
Army Corps in Fra nee, has been promoted
Chief Ordnance. Officer at a French port
where there is about the biggest and most
important British army base on the Con-
tinent. As an outcome of the late
Kitchener’s visit of inspection to Australia
Austin was sent to the Commonwealth some
years before the war to remodel and organise
the Ordnance branch. He knew his job and
did it. When the Ilun ran amok he left
with the first Australian contingent, worked
up the ordnance side of the enterprise dur-
ing the long sojourn in Egypt, and looked
after the boys on Gallipoli from his quarters
on Anzac Beach. Back in Egypt after the
evacuation, he worked up the ordnance for
later Divisions; then went on to France, to
retain his connection with Billjim until now.
David Barker, the Sydney man who did
many of the finest illustrations for “The
Anzac Book,” was recently on loan to the
British War Office and map-drawing in the
neighborhood of ancient Babylon. “Luckily,”
he says, “I didn’t build auy castles around
Bagdad, the place of 40 (thousand) thieves
—mostly Jews, selling Oriental carpets made
m Germany. It is musty and dirty; but
what of that when we can buy lettuce—let-
tuce by the dozen? You don’t know how
different a crisp lettuce can make the world
until you’ve fed out of a tin for most of a
year.”
Henry L. White, of Belltrees (N.S.W.).
who lately gave £15,000 worth of stamps
to the Mitchell Library, has for years been
the chief benefactor of the Ornithologists’
Union. Now he has clinched the obligations
ol: bird-students by a gift of £lOOO, invested
in the war Loan, to establish rooms in Mel-
bourne for the advancement of bird-study
lor years past he has given a hand (with
a roll in it) to field ornithologists in outlying-
parts of Australia, and [lie results of these
excursions, too. have-,been passed over for
the benefit of science. -
During the regime of the first N.S W
Labor Government the late Tom Thrower
was often acting-chairman of committees.
Ihe incorrigible Jack Meehan, member for
the Darling, was the bane of his life, as of
the life of every other chairman. One nighf
.Tack was making one of his usual speeches
m which Cohen, pork chops and Dave
.Morey s bald head were being strangely and
irrelevantly intermingled. Thrower stood
him to the last gasp, then ordered him to dis-
(h<;"tl"m' lu s speech. .Tack couldn’t believe
his ears. Excuse me. sir.” said he, with
tremendous politeness, “but did I understand
sneeehr> a ' Vr^ r ’ that 1 to discontinue im
speeih? Thrower nodded. “Then.” said
Jack, you re a cow.” The sergeant-at
arms strode down majestically and the ob
servation was developed outside.
the A !\wtl Ce r'.. re f mp “ bered in Melbourne and
the VV extern District as a swift-moving voumr
SSSshiM Of r P,JH r if object in life b »t the
e g f T i lq P d as sets, has lately been
heard from. He is now a lieutenant in Africa,
doing valuable work as an interpreter hav-
ing acquired Swali, and being able to handle
Th' 'V* “ntlvl^
Johnned and is chiefly distinguished for
being heavily gilded, both sides and on ton
l.ut it was the Curries, of the Western dis-
SatZS C,6arly that there wi
shed wharf consigned to BR W tit
worth prised the IM on,l oxSeY;„e "eS
>f ale and claret. Then he slipped an ex-
S hS°f?iend W- Dt ° Vaemim addressed
on instances'alter "eases.” * na * " Ci '-
At last the Victorian farmer—or as mam-
of him as intend to uplift an organist w i/.
ai the next. State elections— has decided n.t
to be an insectarian. The Vic if,, >
I nion. suddenlv stiff in it, i lL i . drraers
hat the winning of an ele/thTZtt.'sS,
Johns wort DOW poisons the laXape


V
I
P 2990. —Solid Sterling Silver
Neatly Engraved Purse.
Price 27 /6.
Ditto, Plain Design, 25 /-
Klss.—Single Stone Diamond
and Platinum set 18ct. Gold
Ring, £5/10/-
C69B2.—Finest Quality
Cut Glass Scent Spray.
Price 50/-
Ivl79.—Fine Diamond
2-stone Crossover
Ring, Platinum and
18ct. Gold, £B/10/-
C628.-—Fine Diamond
and Ruby set 15ct.
Convincing
Values in
Gifts of Gold
and Silver
Jewel I ery
at STEWART DAWSON’S.
SPECIAL MEM. —It will be found
by comparison that Stewart Dawson’s
Prices have remained practically
unaffected since the war commenced —
a fact entirely due to our splendid
manufacturing facilities and our
unique position as extensive buyers of
precious stones. Send direct to
Stewart Dawson’s.
STEWART
DAWSON’S
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
Mothers should try
Benger’s Food for themselves. Those who are nursing
will find the greatest benefit for both themselves and infant.
Take the Benger’s Food between meals, as an addition
to the daily diet. It promotes a»high state of nutation and
a full supply of natural milk.
Food
although among the “ lightest’’ foods known, is all nutri-
ment. Mothers, when overtired or out of sorts, will relish
and enjoy it; flavour with tea, chocolate, or coffee, for
a change.
Benger’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc. everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it
Booklet and full particulars post free from:
BENGHR’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S.A.) go, Beeicman St. Dep&ts throughout Canada.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winclicombe, M.L.C.; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Samuel Hordern, Esq. Consulting Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £86,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000
The Society issues, every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
w, » 1
V f
»
&
*3%
'-r-
-ll
*/
/
DANCE AT HOME THESE WINTER EVENINGS
TO THE LATEST MUSIC ON
"HIS MASTER’S VOICE” RECORDS!
How much more delightful to dance at home to the music of a band than to
a mere piano! Think of that little dance that. you intend to. give when
your boys are next home on leave. With a selecfioir of “His % Master’s
Voice” records they can one-step and fox-trot to the latest music played by
The Coldstream Guards Band, the Mayfair Dance Orchestra, the Metro-
politan Dance Band, and many other famous dance bands. All can dance.
No one will have to sit out to play the piano! And the dance music on “His
Master’s Voice” records is perfect, exquisite in tone, and in absolutely
correct time.
“GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Mark.
There is quite a large selection of Double-sided
Dance Records. Ask your nearest dealer to play
some of them over for you. Complete lists, instru-
ment catalogue and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
;
> /
i/
f V<>
> ' "<,"O
!! j!!! I!!!!! III!!! 1! Ejjffij
==
What the HUDSON Has Actually Achieved.
LAST YEAR, in competition with the world’s finest motor-cars, the Hudson Super-Six won all worth-while
records for endurance, speed, power, acceleration and hill-climbing. A Super-Six stock chassis travelled
1819 miles in 24 hours, exceeding S. F. Edge’s record by 347 miles. A seven-passenger Super-Six Touring-
car went from San Francisco to New York and back (6972 miles) in 10 days and 21 hours, breaking all
previous one-way records and making the first round trip against time. The best time up Pike’s Peak was
made bv a Super-Six against twenty famous cars. And to show speed, a Super-Six stock chassis went 102*53
miles per hour. Just as the Super-Six leads in performance, so does it excel in beauty of line and finish. In
every country where motor-cars are used you will find a Hudson Dealer.
Hudson Motor Car Company Largest makers of fine cars in the world,
■
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address : HUDSONCAR —DETROIT.
& Co. Ltd.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
Lane Motors Pty.
,1 5 Bent Street, Sydney.
, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
Ltd., Melbourne^.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide,
W. Johnson Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J. Brier*, Tasmania** Motor Service, Hobart.


SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT.-LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
ass ■s&ssus -sssrijs;^
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth us long us possible bj
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes. crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe ou the enamel. .
l-’i nF.XT Y TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the of dental limuies V- tubei ev .1
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCIvE. TOMI Slll a. 10.. .Meinoui ne.
if
:a
[PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS ani WORKMANSHIP!
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON g ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
A SUPREME
favorite:.
There is no pulling or dragging of the heard
with
The “PLUM” RAZOR,
but just that smooth, velvety shave that every
man appreciates.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube.
AH the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
w
\
"i
A 2
m
•V . -^-Ji
7"
Reatjnpon,
CARTRIDGES
jySCRIMINATING users
of sLot gun cartridges Lave
given tLe Remington UMC
brand tLe stamp of tLeir approv-
al. Supplied in black and smokeless pow-
der loads. All cases are waterproofed.
Ask your dealer for them or send for
descriptive catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO./
D, D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
The mart ofsuperior
•tor cor <r
1
V
m
6
fhe mart ofsuporton
\jmator
The World’s Viewpoint on the Hupmobile
BECAUSE motor-car buyers have learned keenly to
judge values, the world-wide approval of the Hupmobile
is both interesting and important.
1 lie car that wins everywhere the high favor accorded to the
Hupmobile must be the best in its class and the Hupmobile
is that.
It must be comfortable to the point of luxury—and the
Hupmobile is that also.
It must afford the maximum in roominess, convenience and
easy riding— as the Hupmobile does.
f must be fast in the get away, flexible and easily handled,
powerful for speed and for the hills and heavy roads,
silent and smooth-runnino-
o
And the Hupmobile is all these to an unusual degree.
Last it must be economical to run and to keep - and Hnp-
mobile reputation on that score is flawless.
Any Hupmobile dealer is ready to submit the car to any
reasonable demonstration you may require to convince you
LdasT S 6ady k,,OW - that U outpoints any car in
tmiu* HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS
Hood and seat cover*
Magneto .*nition, wire
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A. *
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand -
L PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DEXXYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelon-
PHCEXIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
i A BATR, A -K <° T n 08 1 SERVICB . Hobart, Tasmania.
it™-- c^T^rs™r on - Nz -


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
"My head broke out into mattery
pimples which then spread into large
sore patches. My hair fell out in hand-
fuls leaving bare patches. There was
also dandruff on the scalp. The pimples
would bleed at times and the skin around
them was veiy inflamed and painful.
“I suffered for 18 months. I hap-
pened to see the Cuticura advertisement
in a paper and the Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment have healed all
eruptions and pimples on my head and
face.” (Signed) Miss Muriel Rowe, 112
Chandos St., North Sydney, November
9, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SP£CIAL/3£
TWO
LINE 3
I# 5
s
IFI.
CATALOGUi
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TQ
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZT jHIWTEft S' NEWCASTLE
V
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
-LEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
m
i
m
■m
e
ELEY .410 “Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Long Rifle Eiey .22 Rim
“E” Brand Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEV Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S. W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L- LONDON
fJT C If i
mJf % # t
my 4 #
11 m
10
2
-*.4
s
Westdax
BIG BEN
Hi’!
For Service
Big Ben —the clock
for service. Lookhim
over. He’s keen-well
set-up—well equipped
—pleasing to the eye.
An honest face, capa-
ble hands, spick and
span uniform.
Look him through.
Forty hour mainspring—
watch-like escapement —
a long, mellow, distinct
alarm —careful adjust-
ment of all parts.
Big Ben is mechanically
right.
Big Ben for the sleeping
room—workshop—office.
Big Ben for 24 hours’
service the day—each day
in the year.
Big Ben is seven inches tail,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial —
a cheerful, deep-toned voice-
large, comfortable winding keys
a light running movement
with watch-like escapement —an
alarm that calls steadily for five
minutes or intermittently for
ten. At all clock dealers, 15/-.
La Salle, 111., U.S. A. Western Clock Co. Makers of Westclox
OtherWestclox: Baby Ben, ish; America, 6/-; Sleep-Meter, Bj6; Boy proof Watch, 6j6.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
fl
V
✓ <£
V-
*-■
V> \
i 1 .N
y,i.-.
■S ,</-'*.
"R\
.
■V
m
ne
"\
"T
'v©
Wv
<£S
=7jy#
The Strength of ATLAS in a drop or
PLUME BENZINE
THE ab'lity of Atlas to carry the Globe on his
broad shoulders is positively outdone by the
ability of “Plume” to create power,
Fill up with “Plume” and you get a spirit so rich in
heat units, so full of energy, that the maximum of
horse power is developed in your engine.
Every gallon of this popular Benzine is of the same
high quality-—a quality that ensures “easy starting,
sweet running, more miles,” All garages sell it.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout Australia and New Zealand. P .R. i
The Inky Way.
The championship of his curious trade has
been won by the Spanish censor. Last week,
when all the world was waiting for news of
troubled Alfonso, the only cable that leaked
out of the country related to potatoes.
* * * *
“Peg-Leg”: E. G. Knox, who used to
carve copy for Sydney Sunday Times when
Aldworth ran the show, is now bossing avia-
tors. He enlisted as a private, tried most
branches of the army work, and climbed to
the job of adjutant with the Australian wing
of the Flying Corps, with two stars on his
shoulder and millions overhead.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: The Parkes (N.S.W.) Ex-
aminer, which does not accept liquor advts.,
is not the Australian pioneer of that quality.
The little Tumut and Adelong Times (pro-
prietor and editor, S. Groves) commenced on
similar lines in the ’Bo’s.
“Ferro”: “Billy” Moore, late of Bohemia
and the Melbourne Herald, went to London
just before the crack o’ peace. He stripped
but was too wide in the midriff and too short
in the wind for trench work, so, having once
written up the„ harvest, disguised as a
swaggie, for the Herald, he was put on to
assess crops and advise purchase of fodder
for the army. “I’ll have a finger in the pie,
anyway,” wrote Bill, and word comes now
that he has two fingers in—by way of a hay-
baling machine which he was superintending.
The spell in hospital is the first Moore has
had since he enlisted three years back. He
is now (salute!) staff-sergeant-major.
* * * *
“D. McC ” : The Bulletin (7/0/M 7)
tells of the frenzied search of a poet to find
a rhyme for “window.” Well: —
He said, “I wouldn't have sin’d so,
If the girl had latched her window.”
* * * *
“559 a”: Until recently, when the paper
shortage in England became acute, Billjim in
ETance did not do badly for newspapers.
Most of the London dailies were to be had
the day after publication; in some instances
girl-runners brought them up to the commu-
nication-trench entrances. Nowadays North-
cliffe’s Daily Mail has got a rod or so ahead
of competitors by turning out a Continental
edition printed in Paris and delivered in the
towns —what is left of therm —on the Somme-
Ancre Front the same afternoon. Price:
ETance, Italy and Spain, 15 centimes
(lid.) ; other countries, 25 centimes (2|d.).
Here (in Albert) we get the paper for tup-
pence if we’re civil.
* * * *
“John Drayman” mentions a threatened
casualty:—
Hobart Daily Post Co. frankly announces that unless
the democrats of Tasmania find another £2OOO before
July 31, the directors will have to consider putting
up the shutters. This co. started nine years ago
with the absurdly inadequate capital of £6OOO. H
struggled along for four or five years as a “Liberal-
Democratic” journal; then Labor acquired the whole
concern, increased the authorised capital to £lB,OOO
(calling up to £.14,000), and until the war broke
out seemed likely to make a success of it, without
asking for the other £4OOO. But the war price of
paper, interest charges on a lumpy overdraft, and the
burden of redemption payments on debentures in
slack times have compelled the present S.O.S.
At a big meeting of shareholders the other night
it was shown that the co. made a small profit on
working account during the past year and the assets
are £BOOO ahead of the liabilities. The crowd
present (mostly trade-union representatives) decided
that it was up to them to skirmish round for the
required cash, and to get the whole weight of
organised Labor, including the Housewives’ Union,
behind a “campaign of appreciation” of the goods
sold by those business firms that do advertise in the
Daily Post.
Only Queensland, South Aus. and Tasmania have
so far tried the experiment of running metropolitan
Labor dailies. And Melbourne, Sydney and • Perth,
with weekly Labor journals,, appear to have been
able to hoist the Labor banner just as high on elec-
tion days as have Hobart, Adelaide and Brisbane.
Theoretically, of course, Labor should be miles ahead
in the last-named villages; and perhaps it is, but
election figures don’t prove it. Still, it is somewhat
noteworthy that no Labor daily, once fairly estab-
lished, has ever been permitted to utterly fail in
Australia. The only exception writer can think of
at the moment is the fearsome wild-cat for which
Hughes and Holman were chiefly irresponsible some
20 years ago in Sydney. This at least argues that,
once Labor gets a daily, it finds it too useful to be
lightly scrapped.
THE VENGEANCE OF THE GODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, all things being good, the gods at play
Sat down and fashioned them a tiny world.
Moulded in full perfection of their thoughts,
They threw it into space, wherein it whirled.
Man the} 7 devised, and Woman, too, they formed
(For ’twas not well that life should be all joy) ;
It caught their fancy and they worked with zeal
Upon this strange, incomprehensive toy.
And in their play they added to the toy
Odd details from their ever-varied wit:
Virtue, revenge, hatred and love —what not?
They e’en installed a Devil and a Pit!
But Man grew stout apace and, swelled with pride,
He strutted him and gibbered at the gods,
Till they, enraged and hungry for revenge,
Devised the Press to punish these poor clods!
This was but adding fuel to the flame—
The scoffings spread far more than hitherto.
The disappointed gods in caucus met
To think out what the devil they could do.
Then one with bitter smile swung into Space,
And, searching where the banished demons lurk,
He dragged to light a veritable fiend
And set him to destroy the writers’ wbrkl
Unto this day the soul of that ill fiend
Is fitted to the body of each “sub” ;
Driving the wearied waiters to despair,
Goading them on to marriage or the pub!
Sitting with bayonet he cuts and hacks
Till good is bad and bad is twisted worse.
How long, oh, ye offended ones, how long
Till to the Pit returns this too-great curse?
N.S.W.
BILLY B.


si
No Up-to-date Garage Machinery Plant
can be considered complete without
one of these SLOTTING MACHINES.
PROMPT DELIVERIES .
This Machine is of modern design and is constructed to meet the general
requirements.
It is found very useful for special classes of work for which the ordinary
build of Slotter is either not adapted or is to# unwieldy.
Specially suitable for Motor Garages and Firms doing Motor-car Repairs.
c
Proprietary Limited
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE,
VIC.
Bathurst Street,
SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
“There is no difference
between my voice cind
its Re-creation”—says
Christine Miller.
• M,
}
Miss Christine Miller, the celebrated Concert Contralto, was
one of the Edison Artists to undergo the daring Tone Tests,
which proved to the world that
The NEW EDISON
Re-creates all forms of music
“It would be fatal,” says Miss Miller, “for a big artist to say
tee is no difference between her voice and Mr. Edison’s
Ite-creation of it, unless it was a fact that could be proved
Ihe music critics would condemn me unmercifully. I couldn’t
afford to Tone Test unless I had absolute faith in Music’s
e-creation... .There is no difference between my voice and
its tp-frpfllinn ”
he NEW EDISON is the world’s finest musical instrument—
iar and away superior to ordinary “talking macliines”-the
product of a master mind in the science of acoustics.
Learn more about this charming instrument, which has
delighted cultured music-lovers everywhere. Write for
illustrated catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
• -<
<•*
■'■v
®. 3 , /; •/?>* -'<? ? %■;.
Sporting'
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you 11
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Mb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
13/6
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, sJlb.
take-down. Carriage paid
Model,
magazine
hardened
90/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
“Suitable for small game and target shooting.”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 4Jlb; slide action, A EL
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
JL
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel: weight, 4Jlb.;
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
30/-
■3 51-
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s£lb. ..
60 /•
4t ,
'Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all, 37|in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b oo /
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
S*“SPORTINQ REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
“A suitable toeapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges. case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock,
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
open
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
22/6
New Edition Sports and Firearms List—Post Free.
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
. Bine >4?i0, 2 2?.^ f ss?.d.wS ,, JS; ti £„gtb H r , sss e 3
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sjlb.
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 30 /- 1000• ‘if inn
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
£6/6/-
m
A perfect rabbiter's rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
- tr „,. . „ . M °£el 12, 22 calibre, solid breecli. side ejector,
traight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short. 12 long or
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
front sights; weight. 4*lb Delivered
CO/-
SUNOLTOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
11d. post free.
rite Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F. round o 4in
4fr e ' 8011,1 bre " h ’ bl »<* “er
)Den FVrmt mwi c
87. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle 22
barrel case-hardened frame, solid
action; weight, about 4ilb,
calibre, R.F. round
breech, block under
24in.
lever
pis.ivr Pront ” ud si,orti “ e sign
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight
Same rifle, but 22 W.R F | o/ <>'./''
' ’ or calibres, 2/0 extra.
30/-
40/-
ww-yncea, reliable rifle.
22
guard, rubber heel ninto- Scroll tri &S er
m.-Jsri".S-.W3S
S»SiS“--.S
Pfl, Ti'r'ronn'w* « j <~u _
Nero edition illustrated Firearms and V V r ’ 2/&)
Cateh” Anglers' Guide (Catalogue B 2) ,fZt ' Free*to^^T/ 6 B1) ’ also “ Bure
or both lists. They temoney WH * e f ° r ° ne
7C
• • j
7JUSTR7ILWS GREATEST
SPgJVS OUTFITTERS •
7MD TOBMCCOJYISTS
City Sports Depot
HDKintiSt also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


Pwntnimfc*
G
£22
MmBP
0X0TU1
BvmncU
jOinmienn^
A Gallant Australian
V.C. Endorses Rexona
Lieut.-Col. LES MAYGAR, V.C., C. 0., Bth Eight, Horse
Kegt., 3rd Eight Horse Brigade, Egypt, writes to us:
“I have pleasure in certifying that I have used
Rexona whilst on active service in Gallipoli and Egypt,
and have found it excellent for the skin, especially in the
trenches. When the skin was broken or cracked the use
of same prevented festering sores, which were so preva-
lent amongst the troops. I feel sure that a box of
Rexona will always be appreciated by any man or soldier
at the Front.
“ (Sgd.) EES MAYGAR, Et.-Col.”
REXONA A FRIEND TO THE
BOYS IN THE TRENCHES.
We are in the trenches in France and all sleep in the
one dug-out. We can recommend your Rexona Oint-
ment after putting barbed wire out in front during the
night, and would like a few samples of Rexona.
CHICKAN WRIGHT, No. 3873, C Coy., A.1.F., FRANCE.
MAT DOWNING, No. 3291, C Coy., A.1.F., FRANCE.
JACK WARING, No. 3859, C Coy., A.1.F., FRANCE.
C. J. PATTARSON, No. 3457, C Coy, A.1.F., FRANCE.
Yours sincerely, THE DUG-OUT FRIENDS.
FIRST AT THE FRONT AND
FIRST AT HOME.
The wonderful healing powers of Rexona have made It a
password among the boys at the Front. For Cuts, Chafing and
Burns of all kinds Rexona the Rapid Healer is without an equal.
Don’t forget—make a wise investment now by buying two tins
of Rexona, one for your home use—the other for your friend at
the Front.
Rexona is sold in two-size triangular tins, at 1/6, or large
size (holding nearly four times the quantity), at 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
U.
zximx
KING
vtmsx
i?oV ’P
tel
KC*0TUl1
T)0 YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
''"when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,' The Reliable Tonic, are . needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —“ Impoverished t blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . • IRON ‘JELLOIDS No. 2 A.
For Ancemia in Women , . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS' No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/\
k/0
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
NAZETHA
THE CREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effertive and
pleasing' Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to —
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
umA
m
.
Duel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"I 1 ! IW ARY Mother, and did you see?
|f I They strode together into the dark,
Down the steps by the statuary
To the haunted copse in the cedar park !
And one was swart, and one was fair ;
Yet, fair or dark, no word they spoke,
For a pale hate hung in the evening air
Like the pale keen blade in the swathfed
cloak.
Virgin Mother, the night is fair,
The daphne-breeze is pure and sweet.
And my white pet pigeon upon the stair
Struts and struts with his coral feet;
But down in the copse where the cedars sigh,
With only the glimmering stars to guide,
Foot points foot and eye meets eye,
And the twist of a wrist will my fate
decide !
Oh. one is bonny and one is swart,
But the swart arm knots at the elbow bare,
While the fair curls cover a world of thought,
t White as the bird on the crimson stair ;
Yet the hot hand under the rapier guard
And the hungry mouth on the fiick’ring
blade
May usher death to the castle yard
And break the heart of a watching maid!
The brooch he gave me (the garnet star)
Burns on my satin, a crimson stain !
Is it his cry that I hear afar
Or the breeze in the wavering weather-
vane?
Is it my poor heart’s beat and beat,
O laggard minutes which slowly pass.
Or the beat and beat of the fighting feet
Which shuttle and stamp o’er the frightened
grass?
Mother of God who gave me eyes
To learn the love of my heart’s lord,
Do I see the flash of the fireflies
Or the fire which burns at the clash o’ the
sword ?
O tautened muscles which strain and strain,
O red star burning low in the west.
Like a tiny wound with its garnet stain
Red as the star on the curve o’ my breast!
Right jauntily strode they through the night,
The mellow night with its tilted moon ;
But a weary maiden with wearier sight
Hearkens the click of the coming shoon,
Of stamping heel on the balustrade—
O laggard minutes which slowly pass!. . ..
A white hand wipes from a gleaming blade
The caitiff blood with a tuft of grass !
MAOKILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Doing the Funerals.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A HOT summer dhy twenty-five years
ago. A small, red-cheeked boy of
about twelve, in a long-trousered
suit (borrowed) and a dismal black felt hat
(bought), might have been seen toiling up
a steep suburban hill in search of a funeral
he didn’t want to attend. The reluctant
mourner had been unluckily cradled by Pro-
vidence. In the first flower of his youth
he marched at the end of a long family
which was led by a very senior brother,
now absent in a distant State. In between
were a bunch of sisters who were no good
for funeral duties; so the small boy found
himself commanded every now and then by
his mother to take a holiday from school,
buy a tie and one of the dreadful black felt
hats of the period, and represent his family
at the obsequies of some old friend whom
he had never met. Each job meant a new
black hat and tie, because these doleful
extras always got worn out between
funerals, remaining till their last dusty
stages as reminders of the grave. The
sombre ties weren’t so bad ; but the sort of
black felt hats they made for small heads
twenty-five years ago would get a laugh
on any vaudeville stage now —as they did
then in the school playgrounds. But the
oldsters who paid for the atrocities thought
them very stylish and frowned at any criti-
cism. The cheap touring German still wears
something that dimly resembles this dreadful
hat when the world is at peace and he
goes wandering in Switzerland.
The small hurrying mourner was acutely
conscious of the absurdity of his headgear,
and. if he had dared, he would have taken
it off and carried it under his arm. To
liis young legs on this hot summer day the
unfamiliar long pants seemed as clumsy as
skirts; but long pants, after all, were a
mark of seniority and could be worn without
loss of self-respect. It was the idiotic
Alpine feit on his head that made him feel
an outcast.
It was consoling, though, to think that
his classmates in the severe bluestone school
on the hill would now be droning, buzzing
and occasionally yelping over the accursed
French lesson with the hot-tempered clerical
gentleman who taught it with a brogue and
leathered them for the good of their souls. The
Father’s voice when he was angry (and he
was nearly always angry) had a rasp in it
like that of the schoolroom clock when it was*
about to strike the hour with quick, savage
“pings” and bring the pupils to their
stockinged knees for the hourly prayer.
There was always some small unfortunate
with cheeks stained with tears who put
smarting hands together and mumbled his
petition chokingly. But the Providence
which was so often appealed to remained
apparently as unresponsive as the distressing
sacred pictures that hung on the painted
walls. Yes, it was good to be out in the
sun where there was no legalised assault and
battery going on !
Then, of course, he was rich. He had
the enormous sum of two shillings in his
pocket for expenses; but the funeral cab-
men never seemed to expect money of one
so young, and there was always a scene
of respectful bustle at the cemetery gates
during which one could be overlooked.
Generally the cabmen were too busy collect-
ing the fares of the adult passengers and
acknowledging tips to see a small boy in a
dreadful hat. Provided his luck was as
good as usual, he would make a clear profit
of at least one-and-six. And the joy of get-
ting a whole day from school. But where
was the house?
He hesitated on the corner of a sleepy
suburban main street and then approached
a butcher who was loading his cart. “Would
you mind telling me where Houston-street
is?”
The butcher slammed the door of the cart,
scratched his head with a greasy forefinger
and looked dazedly up the street. (The
mourner almost thanked him for not saying
anything about his hat.) “Let’s see now!
No. that wouldn’t be it! I tell you
what —you ask at the baker’s up the street
there. I think Houston-street is a little
narrer place up that way. It ain’t on my
round, son.”
“Thank you, sir,” said the boy, who had
been taught to be very respectful to his
elders. The butcher who didn’t know his
streets looked after him suspiciously; he
seemed to think his leg was being pulled.
The reluctant mourner with the hat went
cheerfully towards the baker’s. He told
himself he was trying to go to the funeral
and that if he arrived there too late to take
part in the usual drawing-room muster it
wouldn’t be his fault. At every funeral he
went to he was hailed by very old men as
his elder brother—who was some twenty-five
years ahead of him. Explanations always
took a long time and seemed unnecessary,
and when all was cleared up the indulgent
oldsters always stared at him as if he were
something unheard of—which was just what
lie felt like in his funeral hat. Fortunately
it wasn’t necessary to keep it on when inside
the house.
He was always undecided whether to
“take a last lpok.” If you didn't look you
missed some small-boy excitement, and there
was a certain absence of reality in following
a mere black box; if you did accept you
sometimes regretted it. The complete in-
difference of the dead to external things is
a terrible thing to see, and the heavy scent
of the funeral flowers always remained and
made him dislike gardens for weeks after-
wards. The last time he had risked the
“look” was in response to a whispered invi-
tation to “see poor Uncle James.” Tip-
toeing into the scented death-chamber, he
had looked for a moment on a tranquil,
waxen-faced old gentleman whom he had
never met in life.
But here was the baker’s! The mourner
went in timidly and found a little woman in
a soiled apron cleaning the brass counter
scales. “Could you tell me where Houston-
street is, please?”
The baker’s missus stopped work instantly
and looked at him till he became conscious
of his hat. “Houston-street!” she gasped.
“Houston-street!”
“Yes : I’ve got to go to a funeral thege.”
The baker’s wife faced towards the door
and yelled piercingly, “Har-ry !”
To the boy the yell seemed loud enough
to wake the corpse he was looking for. But
it _ failed to Wake Harry. “Wait a jiff!”
said the. baker’s missus, and went out into
the sunlight and silence of the street. The
boy heard her inquiring as though she had
only one object in life. The baker’s missus
was always interested in funerals.
The mourner, left alone, looked at the
unguarded tarts without interest and won-
dered idly at the silence of the place.
Presently the little woman bustled back
quite pleased with herself. “It’s a terrible
long way from here.” she reported, and
straightway overloaded his young mind with
sailing directions. He escaped as soon as
he could and set off again, his way taking
him past the butcher’s shop where he had
originally inquired. The butcher, who was
still loading his cart, saw and hailed him.
“Hey. son! Did y’ find it?”
“No, it’s up this way!” called the hov,
and hurried on. He bore the butcher no
malice for misdirecting him, for he didn’t
really care much whether he found Houston-
street or lost it. Fie had no watch and
wasn’t sure about the starting-time; but
after travelling a mile it struck him that
it wouldn’t be much good going to the
house now, even if he knew where it was.
Much better to cut across country and join
the cortbge at the cemetery gates. The
more he thought of it the more it appealed
to him as a pleasant variation of the usual
funeral formula.
As he walked and inquired and walked
again, he cheered his hot and lonely way
by imagining the slaughter that was pro-
bably going on in the hot classroom presided
over by the angry clerical gentleman. It
made him a little sad to reflect that three
o’clock would see them all as free as he
was now. And of course they would be
handy to their playjng-grounds and in ordi-
nary decent clothes instead of being miles
off the regular beat in horrible fancy dress.
At the corner of a lonely street that seemed
to lead nowhere in particular, he took off
his hat to cool his head. A sinister boy
who happened to be passing saw him with
the thing in his hand and said threateningly,
“A bloke ougliter give yer a ’it on th’ snout
f’r wearin’ a ’at like that!” The mourner
thereupon crammed the thing on his head
and started off, shadowed by the avenger,
who seemed to he debating whether he
shouldn’t inflict the deserved chastisement
at once. It was an orderly procession of
two till a sizeable piece of bluemetal bounced
past the funeral-specialist, who was doubt-
ful about his fighting abilities but rather
proud of his running. He flew like a swal-
low for a quarter of a mile before he allowed
himself a backward look. The boy who
disliked the hat was a mere speck "in the
distance making insulting signs.
“Which is the nearest way to Kew, sir?”
he presently inquired of a cyclist postman.
“Goin’ to 'walk?” asked the amazed man
of letters.
“Yes.”
“Well, it’ll take yer about two hours
from ’ere. Go over the bridge down there,
turn sharp to the right an’ keep on till yer
strike th’ tram.”
“Thank you very much,” said the
mourner, and started off.
“Hey. son!”
(Continued on next nan*..)


1$ CAUSED
AmonE other thte b, «OMY. OWWOW «»»*
INFLUENZA, DAMPNESS and CONSTANT STOOPING.
i "EireryPrcture
\ Tells A Story"
’■ c.
»Jr
-a
71'
I! •»
m
>»
set
m >
It Should Never be Forgotten that Stabbing or Dull Pain in the Back,
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Gravel, Dropsy, are all the Result
of Weak or Diseased Kidneys.
The danger of a wreck begins
immediately the vessel springs a
leak, and then is the easiest time,
the right time, the safest time, to
safeguard the ship from being
wrecked. The danger of Bright’s
disease, dropsy, diabetes and other
fatal kidney disorders begins imme-
diately there is any sign of kidney
complaint—backache, dizzy spells,
urinary disorders, sediment, gravel,
impure blood, pains in the loins and
sides, puffy eyelids, swollen ankles,
etc. The easiest time, the right
time, the only safe? time to protect
yourself against fatal kidney com-
plications is when the first signs
appear, for kidney complaint comes
on unnoticed and it is bound to end
fatally if neglected. Take no risks
with your health, but begin with
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at
the first sign of anything wrong.
Doan’s Pills are a special medicine
and a sure cure for every disorder
of the kidneys or connective system.
But you must be careful to get the
genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY TROUBLE
CURED.
SYDNEY WOMAN SPEAKS.
Mrs. W. H. J. Richards, 16 Cook Road,"
Marrickville, says: “For about seven
years I was a martyr to kidney trouble,
and only those who have suffered in this
way have any idea what I went through.
My back used to ache so much that it felt
like breaking, and every movement was
positive torture. When the pains were
very severe it was impossible for me to
stoop, and I was almost crippled. Other
symptoms of kidney, trouble were dropsi-
cal swellings of my legs and ankles and
disordered secretions. During the time
I suffered I was treated by doctors and
others, but they failed to do me good.
About six months ago Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills were brought under my
notice, so I made up my mind to give
them a fair trial. After using the first
bottle I realised I had at last got a medi-
cine that was benefiting me, so I con-
tinued taking the pills until I was quite
cured, using in all six bottles.”
Four years later Mrs. Richards con-
firms the above: “I have had no trouble
with my kidneys since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me over four years
ago, a fact that speaks well for this
splendid remedy.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
ITCHING PILES.
Mr - James Higgins, 21 Terry Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says: “Some years
ago I suffered a lot from Itching Piles,
the irritation being very trying, particu-
larly so at night and during the hot
weather. A friend advised me to try
Doan's Oinment, and, knowing how
good Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were.
I bought a pot at once, and it proved
a blessing. After a few applications I
got lelief, and as I continued with the
remedy the improvement was maintained,
until finally the Piles completely disap-
peared. Five years have elapsed since
I used Doan’s Ointment, and I have had
no return of the ailment all that time
I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s
Ointment, and recommend it to other
sufferers.”
Two years later Mrs. Higgins says:
My husband is still free of the torture of
Piles, and has been since Doan’s Oint-
ment cured him seven years ago.”
ECZEMA.
Mrs J. Thompson, 3 Onslow Street.
sa J s: '‘ For a lou g time 1 was
tot tuied with Eczema. The irritation
ot this ailment is dreadful, the days are
!a ’ ab n e aiKl the ni ghts sleepless. I
tried all sorts of remedies, but nothing
, * 'J 1 ? an y good. I consulted a doctor,
but his treatment also failed to benefit
alf c r? st -. Sun induced me to get
a pot ot Doans Ointment, having heard
this remedy very well spoken of. After
nrLi im^ appl,cation 1 noticed an im-
i '°J, ei ? ent ’ 80 I continued the treatment
as Quite cured, using in all two
i )oa n s Ointment is wonderful,
• _ ne Y^ r nnss an opportunity of prais-
- I ‘, * jCzer na is a terrible complaint,
L * suffer ers will be pleased to
know of a sure cure.”
M rs - Thompson says:
nf ttvPP to y * have had no signs
since Doan’s Ointment cured
me four years ago.”
ln ° by n p e °st; 5 t ; or posted
The mourner turned and found the post-
man grinning at him. “Yes?
“Where did you get that ’at.
The agonised boy blushed miserably. t
-I'm going to a funeral!” he called and
■ timed away. When he thought the post-
man was no longer looking aftpr him he
l-ook off the shameful hat,, crammed it under
11is arm and walked on bareheaded.
An hour later he was still walking. \\ non
he came to places where there were shops
and houses and people to see, he put the
hat on to escape notice; when the going was
< pen and nobody was in sight he took it o
t„ save his own self-respect. And midday
and dinner-time came and went and still ne
walked, pausing only once to buy a penny
drink of gingerbeer in a little frmtshop.
Elevenpence in Small change seems more
than a shilling, and he felt cheered by the
jingle of coppers in his pocket.
But he never got to the cemetery. As he
walked up the last steep slope to the gates
he heard the solemn trot of funeral horses
and saw a gleaming mourning-coach roll
down the hill with the brakes on. He
stepped into a shop door to watch it go by.
As it passed him he saw the face of one of
his uncle’s old friends at the window. The
old friend was smiling and the elderly gent
on the opposite seat seemed to be telling a
good story—as elderly gents do on most
occasions. They had seen an old triend
home for the last time and were not going
to be doleful about it. Two more mourning-
coaches similarly loaded followed the first;
and then the road-dust settled and the boy
turned back thoughtfully to the little rail-
way station. He felt tired enough now to
spend a little of the cab-fare he hadn’t used
in a second single to Richmond.
An hoar later he was at home changing
into his playing clothes and reporting to
his mother that it had been a beautiful long
funeral and that everyone was as well and
cheerful as possible.
“Where’s your new hat?” asked his
mother suddenly.
“It—it blew -off when I was coming back
in the train,” mumbled the boy.
As she threw up her hands despairingly
lie wondered guiltily whether anyone had
seen him throw it into the river and if the
police would find it and drag for his lying
body.
M. M.
The Operation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. HORACE HALPER, the draper,
was wobbling his wavy way home-
ward, in that mellow condition in
which a man feels paternal to all.
It was midnight, and he was the only resi-
dent of that part of the little town who was
not indoors with the exception of Peter
Coffer. Peter was standing at his gate when
Mr. Halper zig-zagged past. But, being
short-sighted,- he did not recognise Mr.
Tlalper.
A buggy, in which two men were seated,
drove along the metalled street, and was just
passing Coffer’s, when the driver noticed
Peter standing at the gate.
“Say, mate, where’s th’ doctor’s house?”
“Up th’ street a couple er ’undred yards.
That’s ’im jist goin’ ’ome; ’e’s a bit shik-
kered; but ’e’s alwuz at ’is best wen ’e’s a
bit meller. He won’t go out with y’ t’night,
though.”
“Thanks, -we’ll try, anyway. Good-night!
Git erp, Bluey!”
“Wot if ’e won’t come, Joe?”
“We’ll make ’im,” answered Joe, a sixteen-
stone scrub-cutter.
Mr. Halper was standing in the middle of
the road, gazing in puzzled surprise at the
cottages in front of him, when the buggy
pulled up and obstructed his view. The big
scrub-cutter descended and stood in front of
the homeless draper.
“’Ullo Doctor!” he said heartily, “we’re
jist goin’ up your way. Jump in an’ we’ll
give y’ a ride ’ome.”
“Mush oblige, m’ fr’en’; but love’y cottage,
five rooms, every conven’ance, two min’t’s
walk posh office, can’t find, rnosh amusin’.”
“ ’Ard luck,” said Joe. “Jump in an’ we’ll
’elp y’ t’ look f’ it.”
“Splen'id suggeshun,” and Mr. Halper
moved towards the buggy. He raised his
foot to put it on the step, but the effort
overbalanced him and he fell back into the
strong arms of -Joe. The next instant he
was lifted and jumped on to the back seat
and Joe sprang in beside him, the horse was
slewed round, Bob yelled as he brought the
whip down, and the buggy was rattling out
of town, doing a mile .in three-twenty.
“Forward one!” murmured the astonished
diaper.
Out of the little town, on to the main road,
up hill and down dale tore the blue-roan
raare, with the buggy swaying and rattling
behind her. The draper sat dazed and aston-
ished until fully five miles of the road had
slipped away behind them like a roll of
dusty ribbon. Then he roused himself suffi-
ciently to address his companions.
“ ’-Souse me, m’ fr’en’, would y’ min’ tellin’
me who what you——what I —f’ goo’ness
gracious sake tell me anything .”
“Well,? Doctor, we’re takin’ y’ out t’ see
poor ole Ned Seers—’e’s been' took awful
bad.
But I’m not a doctor, m’ fr’en’. I’m
Horace Halper, draper. Terrible thing mis-
U l ,, d ™per f ’ doctor. Stric’ly in conf’dence.
111 tell y’ where doctor is.”
“I know where ’e is.” said Joe grimly.
‘My oath !” said Bob from the front seat.
“I lef’ ’im in billiard-room splainin’ t’ lan’-
lcrd an C.P.S. an’ bank manager an’ lot
more. \
“What were y’—l mean what was V ex-
plainin’?”
“Doctor very kin’lv ’splainin’ how n’form
op rashun pend citis.”
“’Ow did yer—l mean ’e show y’ that’”
“Very simple, very. Takin’ sharp pocket-
knife he made incision in cloth billiard-table
l hen pushes chalk under cloth,”
“Hogan’s ghost!”
“Yesh. Then bank gave table
chloroform outer whisky bottle; y-££;
stan'in' by informsh doctor that patien no
under an’s’hetic; doctor now removes coat
ac‘ vest an’ puts shirt outer trous. Doctoi
now leans over patien’. feels earetullj
’pendix, finds it, makes long ’ciwon, opens it
out. and removes chalk, I mean pendix. V-rj
instruc’ive, very. Doctor then orders sis-
tants t’ sew up patient; ’sistants sing out
lan’lord bring in needle an’ thread. Dan lord
came in, swore very mush, very : man gei
’nounces that table is regainin’ eonshusnush,
gave ’im more an s’hetic outer whisky bottle,
lan’lord swears shameful —I ’sure you, m
fr’en’, shameful. Doctor d’clares he washes
his ban’s of case, takes no ’sponsibil’ty of
fatal termination; if patien’ dies, lan’lord s
fa “Jumpin’ Caesar! What happened then?’’
said Bob. „ , ,
“Doctor states that lan’lord not member
Bri’sh Med’cal ’Sociashun, therefore refuses
hold cons’ltation, lan’lord scoundrel. Doctor
walks away from op’ratin’-table, very dign -
fied, shirt outsi’ trous’. Very realis’ic, very.
No braces, trous’ fall down, doctor falls
down. M’ fr’en’, where are we goin’ in thisli
awful conveyance? Did I engage you t’ drive
m’ home, an’ where’s m’ hat?”
“Don’t let those things trouble y\ Doctor."
said Joe, adding: “Will y’ ’ave a nip?” He
produced a bottle of whisky and assisted the
draper to tilt it at the right angle, after
which he and Bob drank the draper’s health
and the bottle went round until Mr. Halper
insisted on them calling him Horace, and
demanding to know what ailed old Ned.
“Well, Doc —er—'Grace, I don’t know
what yous medical blokes ’ud call it, but ’is
swaller is all swelled t’gether, an’ ’e ain’t et
nothin’ f’ over a week ; so we thought we’d
better git y’ out t’ fix ’im up.”
“Serious op’ration, very,” murmured the
draper as the buggy pulled up at the scrub-
cntter’s hut.
A sleepy-looking man who had been sitting
with the patient came out and led the mare
away, while Horace, Joe and Bob entered the
front room of the liut, where they solemnly
drank long life to each other and to “Pore
ole Ned.” Bob proposed the health of the
blue-roan mare, Joe proposed the medical
profession, and Horace asked them to drink
confusion to the landlord and the man who
stole his cottage.
“Now, ’Orace,” said Joe thickly, “we’d
better come'n’av’ a look at pore ole Ned.”
“Greates’ pleash do anythin’ pore ole
Ned.”
“Ain’t ’e a bosker!” said Bob as they
moved towards the back room, which was lit
by a hanging lamp.
On a camp-stretcher lay the patient, his
mouth open and his lips flecked with blood-
stained froth. His wide-opened eyes were
turned back displaying the glaring whites,
while his breath came in bubbling whistles.
Horace was almost speechless.
Joe was tight but dignified.
Bob was weeping.
“Mos’ serious, mus’ op’rate.”
“Yesh, Doc., git to it.”
“My oash !” sobbed Bob.
“Mush r’move coat an’ ves’.” His assist-
ants went to work, and after considerable
trouble they removed his coat and vest.
“Mush put shirt outsi’ trous’.” Again the
assistants set to, and after the trousers had
fallen down a few times the toilet was com-
plete and the surgeon stood in his operating
costume, with his braces tied round his
waist.
“Very re’listic, very. Oblige me loan
pocket-knife.”
“Cert’ly,” said Bob, opening and handing
his to Horace.
“Shanks; now give patien’ an’s’hetic outer
w’ish’y bo’P.”
Joe, being the best walker, returned to the
other room and brought a freshly-opened
bottle. Then, acting under the doctor’s orders,
he stood near the patient’s head and inverted
the. bottle over the upturned face, on to
which it splashed and gurgled, filling the
wide-open mouth, eyes and nose. The
patient gave a groan of agony and turned
his face away; the doctor ordered Bob to
straighten the face up again, and Bob did so.
“Can’t make proper ’cision lesh patien’
fully und’ an’s’hetic, mos’ improper.”
The patient struggled and gasped under
the stream of whisky; his struggles became
fiercer, he suddenly raised himself into a
sitting position, and threw Bob from him,
and with a great gasp he heaved and
vomited.
Bob staggered back against the operating
surgeon, and they crashed to the floor. Bob’s
head ncliochetting off the corner of the
table. They remained where they fell.
Joe put the anaesthetic bottle to his mouth
and drained it. Throwing his head too far
back, he overbalanced, and he, too, remained
where he fell.
The sick man dropped hack on the
stretcher and lay still.
An hour—two hours—passed. Just as dav
was breaking, a man, passing the door, was
nearly bowled over by the perfume of the
anaesthetic; he looked in, then walked
through into the back room, gave one glance
at the figures on the floor, the white face and
blood-stained pillow on the stretcher and
rushed out.
Ten minutes later a messenger was gallop-
ing towards the town in quest of a doctor.
* *
Mr. Horace Halper was seated on a stool
m the front room of the hut, looking as fresh
as the shilling counter at the termination of
a jumble-sale. On the opposite side of the
him 0 Sat J ° e a,K B ° b gazill S admiringly at
“It’s no use talkin’, ’Orace. Th’ doctor
says it was your treatment what saved Ned's
life; e says that th’ abscess would er choked
01 im if y’ ’adn’t told us what
wearily.'* nonsense ” said Horace.
But y did save ’im,” persisted Joe. “Th’
ol°o Ct Npd SayS th i U V 1 ’ ann ysthetie made pore
bLky rtS,.' 6 h,Bself until "• b » s « «■’
abrS-' 1 " Bob - “**•» «»■*»
“Let’s wet it,” suggested Joe.
Certainly,’ assented the hero.
bow/rfSSefte ,Ir °! tte 1,08 °" 1 O-e
W. MARSHADL.


d f “'’
m
lai
n« :
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi=
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves 5 per cent . on
Automobile
Fire Insurance.
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE
THE OWL AND THE W
$
£ -
£
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia —or bloodlessness—-
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis ’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks—
gives a sparkle to the eyes—
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new -life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
s Wincarnis/
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
•Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
camis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
If you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney. N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
nent. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hop-
lick’s, there is a great treat ia
store for you. Ask for it at tha
i Form tain.
HORUCK’S
.MALTED MILK
MAt-TEDMILK
Cl'S
A«
S
%o
For Neuralgia
and Headaches
Nervous headaches are
often relieved by a gen-
tle massage with
Vaseline
iv.d« Mark
Mentholated
Petroleum Jelly
Sold in handy, sanitary
tin tubes at all chemists
and general stores. Re-
fuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street. New York, U.S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
BEECHAM’B
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. “Time tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price lO.jd (36 pills), 1/1 u (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
"MILLER”
LIGHTING FIXTURES AND LAMPS
No. L 2318
Electric — Gas—Oil
When you ask for a "Miller”
Lamp no matter whether of
the Electric, Gas or Oil variety,
you are exercising good taste and
judgment and are assured of the
very best obtainable.
Styles for all requirements
Look over the f( Miller” line NOW.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPAN
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
SAFEGUARD You* HEALTH
0f j.Ceftis Brownes
CMorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE I'Oli
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
KONCHITIS and
and in the Coug
COI
Checks FEVEHISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM,
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/8, Si-, oh.
Made in England.
4
C* c
x A" f -
S' 10
HI* 11
Afr, o ‘ h *
M
Work up the lather with wet
brash (don’t use fingers.)
y °«r
■s o*~ /
The New Way to Shave
Just three simple operations and your shaving is
done! No impatient calling for “hot-water” —110
“soaping-up” in a mug—no mussy “rubbing-in” with
the fingers. The rich abundant lather of
TOWN
SHAVING CREAM
simplifies these operations. No
smarting burning after - effects.
Mennen’s contains no free caustic
or other irritant to torture or dis-
figure your face.
Mennen’s saves you time and
torture. It leaves your face soft,
cool, comfortable and refreshed.
Use it and you will realize that you
have been wrongfully blaming your
razor the secret of a good shave
is the lather.
Mennen’s Shaving Cream is
put up in airtight, sanitary tubes
with handy hexagon screw tops.
Prove its value. Try it, that is
the only way to find out what it
will do for you.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores
6. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
Sydney, N. S. W.
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN


BmAN GROVITE”
leather
muni
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
‘‘MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowlci,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advloe and Price List on application.
The Mine Manager’s Friend.
The Celebrated "An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Mining Steel.
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
Supplied
in OCTAGON and
CRUCIFORM SOUR SECTIONS,
HEXAGON and ROUND HOLLOW SECTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
AESTHETIC TREATMENTS ARE
ACHIEVED WITH FIBROLITE.
Fibrolite is the trade name of oar Ann.
Asbestos Cement Sheets.
FIBROLITE
not only durable, hut very effective for
Ceilings, Idmngs, Walls in lieu of lath
and plaster, and even for outside wails
They will not crack, chip, rust or decay.
They are fire resistant, and when used
lower insurance rates are charged.
Send for Samples, Booklet and full
details to
James Hardie & Co.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
New Tel. No.: City 6239.
WOLFE’S
Acts directly and
pleasantly upon
VBV fill
w*«i» nm
(titi slum nuin
•mw*
««*» iitiim mnu
s.^«noM
the bladder and
the kidneys.
DALGETY’S
Machinery
Department
MILLER'S POINT,SYDNEY
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
High-grade & Popular Agenoiee. comprising the following llnee-
Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam
TANCYE
Engines.
® uo^on ® as Plants, Pumps, Jaoks, etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction
Engines.
JOHN BUNDLE * SONS ~ur.2“7i Or«MnL
E.R.B. Separator Engines. CANE Milking Machines.
Catalogues posted free.
m
Olayton Portable Steam Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling Ohaffowttar.
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
a profitable investment
You can always be assured that the money spent on
“Wolseley” Sheep Shearing Machines will come back to
you with big interest.
Through sheer force of merit the Wolseley is the most
popular machine in the world.
Obtain full particulars. Address your enquiries to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd., Australasian Agents—Alt Branches.
UPPER PULL PIN
9^^° ItNO WCST GRADUATED COLLARS * TIGHTN6*
graduated both compound rsst And bolt#
sides or center cross peed
GEAR
CHANGES
ALL GEARS 4
Thoroughly
PROTECTED
ADJUSTABLE
TAPER G»©S
LARGE CAPACITY
STEADY REST
EXTRA LONO
REVERSE PLATE
FOR RIGHT AND
LEFT THREADS
ma pov.tr s w l
gfcßO'.S FEED/ * Vj
>/
FRICTION
I'REVkfesl
HALF NUT LEVER
n . - A CANNOT ENGAi
.‘\ . - ACCIDENTAL LY
L \ NON-INTERFERING DEVICE
iNNOT-THROW IN FK£D AN
' 'Uga AND-'CROSS FECPv CANNOT THROW IN FLED A.NOTB
—:• S HA ; NUr/AT SAME TIME/1
■HmiviNG i: cHangE-Si, • * V /
-G-WORM AND WORMWHEEL FEED /
Longitudinal and ; N r-’ , ->v. \ runs in oil /
CROSS r ECO RATIO. ... x y , \ /
TO V • • COUBI.e P pLATE TYPE ADJL'FN'MEffrs'MAOE
GIVINO BACK SUPPORT • AT THIS END
, g , T9 #r - g - ,
fes
tfJWER PUU
When Time and Production cut
important figures in your costs
it pays to instal
Modern Machine-Shop Equipment
We have in stock for immediate delivery Modern Machine Tools designed to
handle to-day’s work under to-day’s conditions. Tools designed to increase
your output and rede ?e your costs.
High-speed Engine Lathes, Universal Milling Machines, Universal
Grinders, Drilling, Shaping, Screwing and Sawing Machines.
Write for Catalogue and Prices or call and inspect.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
YOU NEED THIS DESTRUCTOR
A SANITARY NECESSITY FOR THE HOME AND FACTORY.
Consumes AH Refuse; Keeps the Premises Clean;
Affords the Best Means of Eliminating the Germ Peril.
The “CUTHRIDG” DESTRUCTOR
Adopted by Board of Health, Education Department, etc.
Full information from MANUFACTURED IN FOUR SIZES.
(
N
Patentees and
Man ufacturers,
equitable building.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
