

W.A.R*S The Whisky of txqmsiie lasle
R. Or- WATKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
Ell
NOW**
(J
On all Classes ol
J3II JUS DIS COUISiTED
Easy Terms Interest
NSWMONTDE PIETE-D-&I-C?U?
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEKEAGH ST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO.DAY FOR SO-PAGE BOOK,
l OSCILLATING
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY.
WALL
reoto medal
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
BEDS
For In. and Out.door Sleeping,
American Wall Bed 'Co.,
380 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney
The Bulletin
Hultor\'s
Pitvco^lc.’ 1
HamdA Bacorv
'&eAfc>! s
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Ju
HANSELS
The Bulletin
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER C 0279 George Street, Sydney,
C.M.A
f
f
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
arnii*^ 4.
Wallboard
“Not the same as others.”
Amiwud is tbs smartest of all wall
ami celling materials—you know
what we mean—lt looks fine, takes
the eye, and wins the approval of
all who see it. Let us send you
samples and some illustrated book-
lets showing its use.
□
r®
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (Makers ol Malthoid), Challis House, Sydney. (D. S, Evans, Aust. Rep.). Agents in all States.
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
s .v. o.
GILBERT LODGE 8 CO.
Cooke’s Bar Iron
For all Purposes, in Stock.
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone, City 4126.
115-117 William
MELBOURNE.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 38—No. 1927.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, January 18, 1917.


The Bulletin
CIGARS
v :
Actual Size
THE EQUAL OF SMOKES OFTEN SOLD AT DOUBLE THE PRICE.
Boxes Of 50 11/6 Postage: N.S.W., -/9 ; Inter-State, 1/2
Boxes of 25 . . . . . . 6/- » .. -/6 ; „ -/9
A Sample Cedar Cabinet of 5 will be forwarded on receipt of 1/6.
A. KEBBLE W HITE, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House," 21 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
DEATH TO FLIES.
THE NEW NON-POISONOUS
POWDER.
“MUSTDIE”
The Great Insect
Destroyer,
Price
9d. per tin.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
Fleas, Flies,
Mosquitoes, Ants,
Cockroaches, Moths.
gpl®^
\' v •
. FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box
1520. G.P.0., Sydney, and a trial tin
will be sent post free, or forward 9d. in
stamps for a full-size tin.
1916
The Red Page
Australasian poetry suffered severely from
shell-shock last year. No new or notable
contribution to poetry has come in book
form from our bards during the last 12
months. Evidently the publishers are
getting chary ; it pays Angus and Robertson,
for instance, to bring out the rather stale
collection of Will H. Ogilvie’s The Aus-
tralian, sure of an immediate sale on
Ogilvie’s previous .Australian reputation,
than to venture upon the publication of
poetry. Various little books made a modest
bid for recognition. Poems, Real and Imagi-
native, by M. R. Walker; Preludes,'by Alan
Gross; a few of Annie R. Rentoul’s kiddie
verses ; and the precocious first offerings of
16-year-old Ernestine Hemmings, in Peter
Pan Land, and 0.P., are practically all the
minor verse offerings of merit. To these
must be added Signaller Tom Skeyliill’s
crude but realistic Soldier Songs from Ansae,
aud Gunner E. Westbrook’s Ansae and
After, also crude but real. However, C. J.
Dennis has partially filled the gap. The
Moods of Ginger Mick is a worthy cobber of
The Sentimental Bloke, though its success
is more popular than artistic.
Fiction reached a higher average level last
year than poetry. But there are no out-
standing Australian novels. The best of a
rather poor lot are: An Australian Wooing,
by Sophie Ormond; Coo-00-ee, by John
Butler Cooper; and Isabel Maud Peacocke’s
delightful story for kiddies, Dicky, Knight
Errant. Mary Gaunt shows good work in
The Ends of the Earth, and Lindsay
Russell does not offend so much as usual in
her conventional The Interior.
The contributions made to the literature
of the war are noteworthy. Boyd Cable,
author of one excellent Australian novel,
and recently a resident with us, enlisted in
the British Army, and his brilliant war
studies, Between the Lines and Action Front,
are British, not Australian, in content.
Hence Australia can hardly claim these—
two of the finest books that the war has
called forth. E. C. Buley, whom we can
claim as ah Australian, has done excellent
journalistic work in Glorious Deeds of Aus-
tralasians in the Great War, in which the
first full-length portrait of the Anzac
appears. Oliver Hogue’s Love Letters of
an Ansae conveys authentic information in
an irritating guise. Signaller Ellis Silas, in
his comments upon his fine drawings in
Crusading at Ansae, also strikes the real
note with greater sincerity. And “Anzac,”
author of On the Ansae Trail, speaks good
Australian and divulges! much information
that hitherto has only been the subject for
hints. The two outstanding Australian con-
tributions to war literature are Hilda M.
Freeman’s highly-interesting account of An
Australian Girl in Germany, and Sydney de
Loghe’s masterpiece of Australian psycho-
logy, The Straits Impregnable. The latter
work places Loghe in the ranks of the best
English writers on the war. He is Aus-
tralia’s chief literary discovery. Incident-
ally, another of the surprises of the war has
been the development of Ted Colles, a con-
tributing Bulletin artist, into a brilliant
unofficial Avar correspondent.
The finest Australasian product of the
war, however, is a composite one. The Ansae
Book. Favorable mention must also be
made of the local compilations, The West-
r alia a Gift Book and The Australian Sol-
diers’ Gift. Book.
Our historians have had little to say. The
Colonisation of Australia, 182fl-.'i2. by R. C.
Mills, fills a gap in our records. Fredk.
Watson has produced three more volumes
of his Historical Records of Australia. C.
11. Curry’s British Colonial Policy. 1783-
1915, is a neat summary of a complicated
subject.
Three scientific works deserve mention:
National Efficiency, by R. F. Irvine, lucid
essays upon important subjects; Botany for
Australian S.tudents-, by xAgnes A. Brewster
and Constance M. I.e Plastrier. the first
complete work based upon xAustralian flora;
and Fishes of Australia and their Techno-
logy, by T. C. Roughley, also complete and
la vishly illustrated.
Tiie only attempt at humor is A Fool’s
Talk, by H. E. Boote, who has a pretty
philosophical wit. but whose method and
style groAv monotonous when collected in
book form.
Lady Poore’s Recollections of an
Admiral’s Wife is the only autobiographical
work apart from books dealing Avith the war.
It reveals a kindly personality and a shrewd
observer.
Nothing of the least importance in Aus-
tralian drama appeared. Apparently the
poor thing is dead.
Art publications flourished, chiefly pub-
lished by subscription, with satisfactory
results to author and publisher. The Art of
Frederick McCubbin was beautifully pro-
duced. but the letterpress was mostly fill-up
stuff, and though this tribute to a well-
known Australian artist was due, his place
in Australian art does not seem likely to be
very high. The little memorial volume,
J. J. Hilder, Water-Colorist, deserves a per-
manent place on our bookshelf; for this
book, though necessarily small, is the record
of a characteristically Australian genius.
Elves and Fairies of Ida Rentoul Outhicaite
is another, though artistically slighter, con-
tribution to Australian art. The publication
of the first number of an Australian art
magazine, Art in Australia, promises to have
an important influence on the cultivation of
our artistic taste. Signaller Ellis Silas’s
Crusading at Ansae, a series of drawings
done on the spot, will have a growing his-
torical value.
The selection of accessions to our growing
Australasian Bookshelf is as follows :—-
Poetry : The Moods of Ginger Mick, by C.
J. Dennis.
War: The Straits Impregnable, by Sydney
de Loghe.
The Ansae Book.
Art : J. J. Hilder, Water-Colorist.
J*
The Bulletin Bookshelf, begun in 1912,
now holds 19 books. The date of the year
on which each was selected is given in
parentheses.
Poetry : The New Life, by William Block-
sidge (1912) ; The Bush, by Bernard
O’Dowd (191.3) ; The Ballades of
Thdodore de Banville, by .Archibald T.
Strong (1914) ; The Witch-Maid, by
Dorothea Mackellar (1914) ; Poems, by
Chris. J. Brennan (19151 ; The Senti-
mental Bloke, by C. J. Dennis (1915) ;
The Moods of Ginger Mick, by C. J.
Dennis (1916).
Fiction ; Jonah, by Louis Stone (1911) ;
Tears and Triumph, by Dowell O’Reilly
(1913).
War: The Straits Impregnable, by Sydney
de Loghe (1916) ; The Ansae Book
(1916).
Drama : Three Short Plays, by Louis Esson
(1912).
Biography : The Life of Captain Matthew
Flinders, by Ernest Scott (1914).
.Anthropology : The Native Tribes of the
Northern Territory of Australia, by
Bald "win Spencer (1914).
Literary Criticism : The Poems of Adam
Lindsay Gordon, by Frank Maldon Robb
(1912).
Description • The Dreadnought of the
Darling, by C. E. W. Bean (1912) ;
New Zealand, the Country and its
People, by Max Ilerz (1912) ; Flagships
Three, by C. E. W. Bean (1913).
Art: J. J. Ililder, Water-Colorist (1916).
Can the Dead Smoke?
When Oliver Lodge’s son, Raymond, was
killed in action in France, it was but to be
expected that one so prominent in the Society
for Psychical Research should attempt to
get in touch with the soul that had “passed
over.” Raymond, or Life and Death, by
Oliver Lodge (Methuen, per Dymock’s
Library), is an account of his experiments
through mediums and by other means to
prove to himself, and incidentally to the
sceptical public, that Raymond's soul sur-
vived death and actually communicated with
his bereaved family. In addition to these
evidences the author believes he received
specific instructions from his Psychical Re-
search friends “on the other side” to speak
out: hence his decision to utilise these pri-
vate messages for public ends. Llis natural
diffidence thus gives way to the conviction
that by publishing this book the many
mourners of sons and husbands untimely
slain may “derive comfort by learning that
communication across the gulf is possible.”
Granting that these messages come front
the spirit of Raymond, the impression that
the ordinary sceptical reader gets from the
evidence is not one likely to cheer those who
are bereft. For what sort of existence do
Raymond and the other spirits lead, judging
from his own admissions? First, “the other
side” is a place for family and friendly
reunions. Raymond meets a sister who died
immediately after birth, another sister and
one grandfather, and he is welcomed by
Myers and other old S.P.R. friends of his
father. And what are these spirits doing?
Their main interest seems to be to get in
touch again with those on earth. One
cannot help picturing Raymond, translated
to a new sphere, seeking out spiritual
mediums in order to transmit through them
trivial memories to other mediums on earth.
Candidly one would think these souls, thus
freed from a clogging body, would have more
important things to think about and to do.
But that pathetic and futile picture remains
of Raymond and his friends standing in a
queue in front of a spiritual “control’s”
residence, waiting to transmit their trivial
messages to earth. And the “controls” that
take command of the mediums on earth are
often quite ignorant beings, unable intelli-
gently or grammatically to translate the
messages they receive. Why should these
futile spirits be chosen for such an impor-
tant work—if it is important—when the
late president of the S.P.R. is there himself?
The business seems to be as badly organised
“on the other side” as it is on this.
At
Lodge makes much of a message received
from Myers before his son’s death, from
which Lodge learnt that some blow was
about to fall upon him, but that Myers
would avert the blow. Subsequently he con-
cluded that Myers meant that he was going
to soften the blow, though the word “pro-
tect” was actually in the message. But the
message was couched in such cryptic form
that the average person can be forgiven if
he finds nothing in it. Well, Myers did not
protect Lodge from the blow, except in a
strained meaning; and though Lodge con-
cludes from a message from Raymond that
his son had met “some friends of his,”
that did not appreciably soften the blow.
It hardly seems worth while to have sent
such a vague and worrying message. An-
other piece of evidence is the fairly-accurate
description given by Raymond of a group
photograph in which Raymond appeared, of
which none of the family had the slightest
knowledge. When the photograph came to
light it confirmed Raymond’s description.
Other messages led the family to believe
that it was actually Raymond speaking.
Raymond not only describes his spiritual
surroundings, but actually jokes with his
mother. The reverent reader will be sur-
prised to learn that disembodied souls can
have cigars if they want them. “There
don’t seem to be any children born here.
People are sent into the physical body to
have children on the earth plane;.they don’t
have them here. But there’s a. feeling of
love between men and women here which is
of a different quality to that between two
men or two women ; and husband and wife
seem to meet differently from mother and
son or father and daughter. He says he
doesn’t want to eat now. But he sees some
who do; he says they have to be given some-
thing which has all the appearance of earth
food. People here try to provide everything
that is wanted. A chap_ came over the
other day who would have a cigar. ‘That’s
finished them,’ he thought. He means he
thought that they would never be able to
provide that. But there are laboratories
over here, and they manufacture all sorts of
things in them. Not like you do, out of
solid matter, but out of essences, and ethers,
and gases. They were able to manufac-
ture what looked like a cigar. He didn’t
try one himself, because he didn't care to.
But the other chap jumped at it. But when
he began to smoke it, he didn’t think much
of it; he had four altogether, and now he
doesn’t look at one. They don't seem to get
the same satisfaction out of it, so gradually
it seems to drop from them. But when they
first come they do want things. Some want
meat, and some strong drink ; they call for
whisky sodas. Don’t think I’m stretching it
when I tell you that they can manufacture
even that.”
Is it worth while to invoke the dead
for information like this?
There are bricks there, too —they appear
to be bricks, they feel like bricks. Raymond
suggests they are made from a smell. Ray-
mond Wanted a suit, and got it. He expects
“it was made from decayed worsted on your
side.” And when the table, used for table-
rapping," got rather rampageous and broke
flower-pots, Raymond explained that he
couldn’t always control it, and that “there
was a considerable amount of skylarking, not
on our side, which he tried to prevent.” He
even saw the Zeppelins over England.
There are some remarkable omissions in
Raymond’s communications. Apparently he
met no Germans on the other side: are we
to assume that no Huns have souls worthy
to survive—which is quite opposed to
Lodge’s theory—or do they all go to a
separate and presumable more cultured
sphere? Also,'there must have been millions
of black and brown and yellow souls that
survived death, ever since man had a soul. Do
these souls go to colored and mottled spheres.
Since the majority of the inhabitants of this
world are non-Christian, those other spheres
must be much more important and much
more'- crowded than the Christian one. But
though Raymond speaks of various higher
.planes he does not seem to have come to a
mottled one. His own sphere is exclusively
English and French. It seems as if Ray-,
mond hadn’t gone to Heaven, but to the
suburbs.
S
Oliver Lodge, though a thorough believer
in spiritualism, is also a man of science.
x\nd he attempts to be scrupulously fair.
All through he hints that many of the mani-
festations he obtained might be possibly due
to telepathy—unconscious thought
ence. The memories that Raymond evokes
are present in the subconscious self of the
communicants; they may not be normally
conscious of them, but there is no doubt that
the memories are there. And, as Maeter-
linck aptly says, why call in the spirits
when there is another explanation at hand—
the hitherto unexplained power of the
subliminal self? To the sceptical reader’s
brain there is nothing divulged in Ray-
mond’s alleged cofimnmications that could
not have been the unaided product of the
subnormal self. Telepathy- is already a
proven fact: thought transference from one
living brain , to another is sufficient to ex-
plain the origin of all these messages.
’The third portion of the book is an elabo-
rate attempt by the author to explain his
spiritualist theories. It is interesting, but
unconvincing. Incidentally Lodge does not
recommend all bereaved persons to devote
the time and attention which he has done
in getting communications. “I recommend
people in general to learn and realise that their
loved ones are still active and useful and
interested and happy—more alive than ever
in one sense—and to make up their minds
to live a useful life till they rejoin them.”
And Lodge admits the difficulty of obtaining
crucial evidence of the survival of the dead.
The “cross-correspondence” scheme seems
to promise most; but “the gradually recog-
nised possibility of normal telepathy, or
unconscious mind-reading from survivors,
raises hesitation about accepting many mes-
sages as irrefragable evidence of persistent
personal existence.” And many serious per-
sons would rather hear no voice across the
gulf of death than have to listen to the
spirits’ method of manufacturing unsatis-
factory cigars and tasteless whisky sodas.
xUso, though Oliver Lodge quotes the fact
in his own justification, the messages from
Raymond advising the publication of this
book and prophesying that it will be the
means of converting mankind more or less
to the spiritualistic belief, as well as the
references to the late Sir. Stead, might have
been judicially suppressed. But these things
may be excused when it is remembered that
it is not so much the scientist speaking in
this book, as the bereaved father snatching
precious consolation from the evidence of
the survival of his son. and hoping that he
will be able to impart that consolation to
the thousands of other persons bereaved.
A New Australian Novelist
Odette Tcbernino makes a promising
debut in her Outback novel, Thou Shalt
Not Fail (Melrose). The novel belongs to
the ordinary type of Australian fiction, and
the style is commonplace; but the author
depicts real Australians in a real Austra-
lian background. The plot does not depend
upon the long hairy arm of coincidence, and.
though logical in its slow development,
reaches its climax by unexpected means. Its
sole weakness is the insufficient means indi-
cated by the author to cause the estrange-
meirt betwmen hero and heroine; yet this
may be partially condoned by the character
of the heroine. For Trixie is not the con-
ventional heroine; she is a bit of a prude,
U bit of a fool, the product of an artificial
education, a girl out of whom Fate has to
hammer her false pride before she gets to
grips witli Life. The hero, however, is a
fine Australian, no paragon, a youth with
a youth’s weaknesses, a man with a man’s
failings. The characters of the other men
and women on station and selection and in a
country township are admirab’y indicated,
without much pretence at anything but a
surface psychology. And Odette Tehernine
happily keeps comparatively clear of melo-
drama.
The story begins with a deserted mother,
her death, and the legacy she leaves to her
son to revenge her sufferings upon the man
who had misused her. The boy gradually finds
liis way through youth, is mixed up in the
tragedy and the sordid ness of life, discovers
his father, but finds his project to ruin him
more difficult than he had suspected, since
he cannot help liking the man. But he
fulfils his mother’s dying injunction, pros-
pers on his selection, meets and loves the
little prude with the college education, and
marries her. How the estrangement comes
it would be unfair to tell; but the final re-
conciliation is due to no melodramatic fact
but is wisely left to the healing influence of
time.
The value of this first novel lies in its
genuine picture of life out back and the
slight but realistic drawing of. the types
that people the bush. Whether Odette
Tcliernine has the real stuff in her for the
making of the real Australian novel must
be left to be decided by her next venture
into Australian fiction.
WHAT BILLZAC READS.
“Te Babarantiko”: What Billzac reads
depends on what he can get to read.
At Namanula hospital. New Britain,
I found a copy of Norman Lindsay's
Boole, one ancient Lone Hand, one
of Gould’s novels (never reading them
have forgotten title), two American magas.
and the remnants of a dry-as-du.st self-educa-
tional work published in “parts”—and
nothing else. On tire verandah of the
A.A.M.C. in Rabaul were a few motley
fragments of Spheres and London Illus-
trated News— all very hoary—and the
intelligence-insulting type of half-penny and
penny English “comics”—and that was all
there.


A.
w aae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
No. 8B. —Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless
Expanding Watch Bracelet, 3-plate,
Open Face, with horizontal movement ...55/-
||2aV n ;
No. IB.—Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless
Expanding' Watch Bracelet, 3-plate, Com-
pensation Balance, fully Jewelled. Set with
circle of first-quality, double-cut Diamonds—
From £32/10/-
No. 3B.—Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless
Expanding Watch Bracelet, J-plate,
Compensation Balance, fully Jewelled, al sclutely
reliable £ll/10/-
No. Cx9o. — Butter Dish, Silver-plated, White
printed China Dish 20/-
2—sse^f J^^s^S!
No. Cx6l. Cake Basket, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver egO
o. Cxi 15.—Dinner Cruet,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, 4
Cut Glass Bottles 25/-
Harry designs of Bangles and Silverplate
are illustrated in our Price List of Popular
Presents. Write for a copy, posted free
on request. It will interest you.
m
atent
Ex PAn
m
m
D, M(5
<sr £
«eo.
o S zt9 3&
No. 2B.—Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless Expand-
ing Watch Bracelet, J-plate, Compensation Balance,
fully Jewelled, splendid timekeeper £l2
Higher grades of movement £lB, £22/10/-. £25
*
*s
(=!
No. 6B. — Lady’s Keyless Wristlet Watch, with
Strong Leather Strap. With Solid Gold Waltham
Watch £7/15/-
Other grades in Gold Watches, 58/6, 65/-, 70/-, 84/-
With Silver Watches 42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-
With Oxidised Watches .... 22/6, 27/6, 42/-, 55/-
2L_
No. 7B. —Lady’s Gold and Platinum
Expanding Bracelet, with Solid Gold
Best-quality Lever Watch, Compensation
Balance, Fully-Jewelled MovcmeYit, dainty and
attractive £18/7/0
Also similar line £12
24335
&
A
m
m
No. 5B. —Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless
Expanding' Watch Bracelet, 3-plate,
Compensation Balance, fully Jewelled, very
accurate and reliable £7/15/-
Others at £6/0/-, £5/2/0
pME" 1
°//V
No. 4B.—Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless Expand-
ing Watch Bracelet, 3-plate, Compensation Bal-
ance, fully Jewelled, thoroughly timed £14
Others at £10, £9/9/-, £8/8/-
No. Cx59.-
plated on
—Cake Basket, Silver-
Nickel Silver 30/-
'rim
SSI
m
4/5
No. Cxt»s.—Cake Basket, Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver ••••••• 35/-
o. Cx97. — Jam Dish, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver Stand, with
Ruby Glass 17/6
No. Cxl2l.—Sugar and Cream
Stand, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver —
38/6
No. Cxl4o.—Biscuit Box,
Silver-plated Mounts, floral de-
sign 15/-
No. Cx64.—Cake Basket, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver 30/-
No. Cx9l. Jam Dish, Silver-
plated on Britannia Metal, cover
prettily engraved 15/-
No. Cx27.—Dinner Cruet,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver, 4 Crystal Glass Bottles 32/6
No. Cx67.—Nut Dish
and Cracks, Silver-
plated on Nic'cel Sil-
ver 27/6
No. Cxlo6. —Butter
Dish, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, clear
Crystal Glass. . 15/G
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
Rifles and Car tridges
“SURE I USE ’EM!
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
I’ve been usin’ ’em
for a number of
years and expect
to continue to, as
they always do
the business.”
Ask any dyed-in-the-
wool sportsman about
Winchester rifles and
cartridges and that’s
about what he’ll tell you.
They are made in various
sizes for all kinds of
shooting and you’ll get
them if you ask for
ITHE w
1
Better Health
Added Beauty
Are Yours
t I # HESE great human desires come
JL true with but small outlay of effort
and money through
GOOD TEETH
Do not allow indifference to stand in
your way of having a life time of good
looks and vigor. Good teeth pay. They
are easy to have by visiting your den-
tist twice a year and using
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
1
2 ,*««**€& *
|iNT»'
r
4 Rc«Bt)ivii4
THE TEEM
l.vr. i.roi
:; ft lirecr '«
NO PURifVtNS,
rmmmnK
i
W jssnar*
!*"« a* *
Both Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder and Dental Cream are safe
dentifrices and superior and efficient preparations. Both are equal in
preserving and cleansing powers. Both at alternating periods should
be used to secure and retain good teeth. Tooth powder is. the super-
cleanser. To those exercising that preference the wise
suggestion is offered of an accasional use of tooth
powder to secure the highest efficiency from the
preservative agents embodied in both preparations.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
FEDERAL, lorries
TELEPHON
BELL
Masters of Transportation
Throughout the world Federal Lorries are satisfactorily handling
all kinds of transportation problems. They are strong and sturdy, and
extremely easy and economical to operate.
Buyers of Federals are assured of satisfaction, for back of every
Federal Lorry stands the Federal factory, with a world-wide reputation
for the way in which it has built thousands of lorries. No detail is
overlooked to make the Federal the best lorry sold to-day. Federal
Lorries are made in three sizes:—H-ton, 2-ton; 3|-ton —worm drive
exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney : KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635, Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[2
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
The Bulletin
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold d Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
ARE, YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of -wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and wc
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW ; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT'SPOT. To show
what we think of the Anpliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
yy/s
:
if
m
MR. GEORGE GOODMAN.
The following testimony is from Mr.
George Goodman, better known as
“Goody” in the profession, and one of
the most widely and professionally
known of a band of brilliant theatrical
managers who form an artistic link
between the theatrical past and
present.
Mr. Goodman has been associated with
the present firm of J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., for a long number of years, ex-
tending back to its inception, when
as “Williamson, Garner and Mus-
s-rove,” it occupied, as it does to-day,
the foremost position in the theatrical
world of Australia, and was respon-
sible for the finest imported produc-
tions of Grand Opera and versatile
drama and comedy.
ifr. Goodman's experience with these
productions and association with the
many “stars” imported under the Wil-
liamson management, ia proverbial,
and the following letter will be of
considerable interest to the many
members of the theatrical profession
throughout the Commonwealth, who,
physically exhausted by the exacting
nature of their many roles, will find
in the med.icine ’Mr. Goodman advo-
cates a nerve rejuvenator and health
restorer of remarkable power and cer-
tainty. Mr. Goodman writes from his
Sydney residence thus: —
BEVERLY, BAYSWATER ROAD,
DARLINGHURST, 20/9/’l6.
CLEMEXTB, TOXIC .Ltd.
I kno& thp horrors of insomnia or lack of refreshing sleep as well as any
who have i Suffered acutely from it.
I haVe endured it often, combined with an irritable, excited and weakened
nerve condition that almost ruined my health. I am not wrong in stating that
this condition at times almost incapacitated me from my managerial duties.
But "I experienced a pleasing and grateful change after taking the medicine
I was advised to use—Clements Tonic. After taking it, that change may be
summarised thus: —
1. Sweet, refreshing sleep EVERY NIGHT.
2. Real healthy appetite.
3. True enjoyment of life through being absolutely well, which I
attribute to no other source than this remarkable medicine to which
I testify.
V > I am, Sirs,
(Signed) G. L. GOODMAN.
All Chemists sell CLEMENTS TONIC within the Commonwealth.
the very best remedy for “professional” weak nerves.
Clements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
It is


&
A
4*
r J
Why
Look
So
Sad ?
m/y
Will make you glad!
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
“BIFF” is a scientific compound which draws out
all poisonous matter from the pores of the skin
leaving the skin in a perfectly healthy condition’
to perform its natur 1 functions. This unique
compound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
"My husband finds great relief by using ‘BIFF '
He thinks it will cure his sore feet.” Mrs T
W., N.S.W.
"Before using ‘BIFF’ I could scarcely walk, now I
.. .r>, c^S," early run -” Mr - e - r - Victoria.
BIFF is splendid for thefeet.it is all you claim
for it.” Mil. W. H„ S.A.
Please send me a large box of ‘BIFF’ tablets I
find them a great comfort.” Mr. J. M , n.s.w.
BIhF can be obtained through all chemists and
'tores from the wholesale house*, or post free
jirect 1 1 om the manufacturers. Price Is fid per
dox, large 'size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
m
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
if you use freely several times a day
ROWLAND'S
Kalydor
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands. 67. Hatton Garden. London
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely eured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since l last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke ; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“Mv general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
m
A Cooling Lotion to prevent
Scorching and Burning of the
Snn for Bathers. Motorists.
Tourists, etc.
ALL CHEMISTS
I/O BOTTLE
OR POST FREE
BOnhINCTOMeCo-
I 7» HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
MOSOHITOBAHE
A few drops applied to tbe
Bands and Face keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINGTON & CO.. LTD.
179 Harris Street. SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/0 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
CELEBRATED
m
S 3
K
x
*
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young:—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —-it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don't feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Cd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—•
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart. [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Courage
What we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
l
9
\
Ns?*a
npHE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. He
gets the best out of himself and out of life —and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation —the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
The Bulletin
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dead.
The dead were busy to-day, and they never
came near;
1 knew they had work they must do in their
wonderful sphere;
Long I might wait for them, yearn for them,
thinking alone ;
Vainly I waited—l know they had work of
their own.
But often they come and they walk with
me, holding my hand.
Need have I none of a vision: we both
understand.
Clear through the silence they speak to me,
clear I reply,
And they are contented with me, and how
happy am I!'
I know not what pathway they come by, what
door they unclose;
Something in me must give way, and for
them, I suppose.
There must be longing and love for a pass,
for a key—
Sudden permission conceded, and then they
are free.
Free of the winds and the stars, of the
storm and the rain.
Free of our minds and our hearts with their
. love and their pain,
Treading the waves of the sea and the blos-
soming sod;
Free of the earth that they knew and the
Kingdom of God.
And sudden I- wake in the morning and feel
They are here!
Joy in my heart flooding swiftly to know
them so near;
Fearful lest something affright them, so
slender the thread
Binding me, blinded with living, to those who
are dead.
And we weep and we laugh and remember,
and joy overflows.
For they bl'ing me a taste of the rapture that
earth never knows;
And deeply thev love me and trust me who
read in my soul
All that no others can read there, not see-
ing the whole. . . .
But to-day they were busy, 1 know, and they
never came near;
I listened in vain for the voices I only can
hear.
But sooner or late they will come, when a
, word sets them free.
For even as I wait for them they are waiting
. for me.
N.S.W.
RUTH M. BEDFORD.
Friendly Wings.
To shield a prophet from the sun
Long ago, oh long ago.
The birds came flying one by one
O’er the turbaned head below;
Over him, how tenderly,
Made a rustling canopy !
It was in a lonely land—
Jut of rock and drift of sand
To horizons hot and wide,
Where the dawn star slowly died
On the bosom of a cloud
Spun into a lilac shroud
For the Vision of the Night;
Y\ here when temple domes rose white
By the green and hidden wells
Fled the sound of camel bells!
hen the birds flew home at dusk
i Long ago, oh long ago,
To the gardens choked with musk
Or a jungle, where the tusk
Of some giant gleamed below,
With his big ears flapping wide
And his grey and wrinkled hide,
Did they carry on their wings
Man’s (and prophet’s) sorrowings?
Tasks untried, regrets that seared,
Prayer entangled in his beard,
Fastings that he had forgot,
Good intentions graven not,
Ego strong, but Courage faint.
Too much man, too little saint,
Poor forgotten at the gates
While lie dreamed o’er milk and dates,
Gifts withheld - from begging bowl—
How they weigh upon the soul?
Oh, you arrowing birds that fly
On a lemon-colored sky
In a whirling dance at eve,
Sometimes I can well believe
Did I lure you close to me
In my vine-hung balcony
I could cast upon your wings
All my day-time sorrowings!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Thing Unsaid.
They talked of the weather and talked of
the war,
And talked of the season just sped,
Of things as they should be, and things as
they are,
And they parted with never a hitch or a
jar....
But something the twain left unsaid !
Though war be a topic of interest, ’tis true,
weather a general theme,
Yet the something unsaid was a subject for
two—
Two alone—and her eyes were of marvellous
blue.
And the moon made the garden a dream.
The man and the woman met never again.
And the years, greying both of them. fledj
But I wonder if ever the thought brings
them pain
When they think of that night ’neath the
moon’s golden reign,
And of something, alas, left unsaid?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


PERDRIAU
GARDEN
HOSE
saws#
70s*
'■:/"Z
'«///A't
y'M: /AC
s;,'
<{«
Made in Australia
and
Obtainable from All Stores.
Look for the registered brand,
moulded on every coil.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
“WATERSHED”
Regd. Brand.
A very high-grade RED RUBBER Iloae, light ana
flexible, but strong enough to stand the highest water
pressure. Specially made to resist our climatic con-
ditions.
PROSPECT”
liegd. Brand.
The best low-priced Black Rubber Hose on the market.
k
The Bulletin
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney .
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
The Bulletin
Picnics to right of us,
Picnics to left of us
Picnics all round us.
And who has not heard of
“REX” Camp Pie
as the Picnic dainty with few equals? Prithee —take notice!
REX CAMP PIE when cut in thin slices is fine for sandwiches,
and by combining it with Lettuce I.eaves, thinly-sliced Egg,
Tomato, Beetroot, Cucumber. Olives, etc., you can prepare dozens
of dainty kinds of sandwiches quite unlike those usually served
at Picnics.
REX CAMP PIE is concocted from the choicest morsels of
meat cooked to retain the savory navors, then packed in tins
and surrounded by clear, mouth-watering jelly.
You should also try
CHEESE
mz
bbss®
m
!i :
fi
m
md
wsm
“REX”
Luncheon
Cheese.
The economical cheese
—it spreads easily and
no butter is needed.
Also ask for: —
“Rex” Ham Pate. »
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and lleans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in 11b. prints.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “REX” HAMS & BACON; Packers of “REX” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
The Everlasting Valve.
In material and construction is made to suit any service.
Quick
or
Slow
Opening.
The Bulletin
.y
The
Solution
of Valve
T roubles.
Section of Valve.
Simple.
Rotating
Easily Operated. Straight-thru Blow.
Disc. Self-cleaning and Self-grinding Seat,
Continued and Uninterrupted Service.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
AaupAs ‘IS aSJoao OS£
‘ONiamna anavxin&a
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
ENJOYS AN UNUSUAL DEMAND.
Goodness of the Car accounts for it.
Wonderful Works Expansion.
Its goodness is alone responsible for the unusual
demand that has existed from the beginning.
At no time since the first cur was built has the demand
been satisfied, and yet in point of sales Dodge Brothers
stand among the first five producers in the world.
Satisfying the demand which the goodness of the car
creates is still their one great problem.
Dodge Brothers’ Works are attaining the proportions
of a city in themselves, but the demand grows in excess
of the expansion.
The Bulletin
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales & Queensland


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38. -No. 15)27.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1917.
Peice 6d.
WHO WINS?
BILLJIM: “How am I to catch the swine with this moke to drag?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia tor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. AU communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
o MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tiie Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to he re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- — Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., P/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
IT.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets. CK /V '"'>.
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A,
Honolulu .—Home News Agency, 16$ /Ctu/i.i. ...<
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —-Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z..
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.: 81oz. to 10oz., Sid.:
lOoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, 1/oz., Id., and Id. each
additional Soz.
'ffluTjßixZZelzffl,.
THURSDAY, JANUARY IS, 1917.
AUSTRALIA, THE MISSING GERMAN
AND THE TARIFF.
The possible results of the war are many.
Some'of them are horrible to think about.
Nobody knows all the things that may be
done by armies and navies; but some of the
things that are not going to happen are rea-
sonably certain. Germany is not going to
be wiped off the map. Nor is Germany going
to be reduced to the position of a whale
stranded in the middle of Europe. She may
emerge badly damaged. She may be impov-
erished. This paper hopes so, anyhow. In that
case she will be a saner and a better neigh-
bor and in the end Germany will be a better
and cleaner place for Fkitz to call his
Fatherland. But the sooner Australians get
it out of their heads that Germany is going
to cease to be an efficient and enterprising
competitor in the world’s trade, and the
quicker they realise that wild yells of “Never
again” and about tearing up upas trees are
mere gusts of hot air, the nearer they will
be to a grip of the job that was theirs before
the war and will be the same old job after
wards. It is the job of doing for them-
selves what they paid the German to do be-
fore he went mad. It is because the German
was alert to opportunity and other people
were dull and careless that he pushed his
way to the middle of the market-place. This
quality is more than likely to be sharpened
by war and necessity. It cannot be de-
stroyed. Only to a limited extent can it be
met by tariffs, for unless there is work going-
on behind a tariff wall there is nothing more
certain than that it might as well be half an
inch high as half a mile. Under cover of Ms
■ wall the German built up many industries
that were a source of wealth to the nation.
He became an exporter on a vast scale. In
eidentally, he also became a large buyer of
raw material from Australia. Either Aus-
tralia must buy from someone else the goods
previously bought from Hamburg or make
them on the premises. If she adopts the first
of these alternatives she will bo in the same
old economic hole; if the second, she will
have started to get out of the hole and save
the wastage the German fattened on. If
other buyers of Australian exports are not
ready to take what the German wants, it
is a safe thing to wager against the material
.being stowed away in a museum and a con-
tract let for extending the establishment.
*- * * *
Of course the German is going to get out
of his bath of blood to look at a world very
different from the one in which he formerly
hurried round with samples. He is going to
find that countries which had been in the
habit of relying upon him for various
descriptions of goods have contracted the
habit of relying on themselves, lie will have
to convince them that they ought to change
their ways, a job that in itself may be one of
great difficulty. And he will discover that
a new competitor is in the field—a competi-
tor who during the war has added im-
mensely to his technical equipment and can
turn out goods at a price which make the
lowest quotations of Berlin look like the
wildest extravagance. Germany competing
against tariffs and dislike and Japan will
certainly have a hard row to hoe. But in-
dustry and skill count for a lot in the world
of commerce, and if Germany is a market for
goods from outside, she will without a doubt
provide someone with goods that originated
inside. German brains and adaptability can
no more be cut out of the world’s business
than the steamship and the telegraph. The
world would be poorer if they were. Not
even the most resolute of the Allies has any
quarrel with the German of the laboratory
and the workshop. It is with the military
despotism that has enslaved the German and
desires to enslave all Europe that the gory
struggle is proceeding. W hen that is dealt
with the contract the armies are working on
will be over and the job of cleaning un the
mess that existed before the war, and the
chaos Created by its progress, will commence.
Reconstruction will mean work in Germany.
It can mean no less to any other country.
In none of them is reconstruction suspected
of being a trifling matter that can be dis-
posed of by passing a resolution against
trading with Germany and letting it go at
that. In all of them there is a large convic-
tion that there is a lot to do besides talk
and the erection of barriers of hot air
against a recurrence of what happened be-
fore.
* * * *
The problems of this country have a
family likeness to those that are common to
all other countries, including Germany
itself. They boil down to the old, familiar
question of how the resources of the coun-
try and the capacity of the people shall be
best employed for the national welfare.
When war burst on the world Australia pro-
fessed to be horrified to learn that Germans
had a solid grin on the metal business and
were supplying large quantities of manu-
factured goods in exchange for the jumbuck’s
overcoat and copper and mne concentrates
and so on. All this was said to be a “reve-
lation” —proof of German baseness and
cupidity. .It was nothing of the sort. It
was rather a revelation of our own cupidity
and lack of patriotism. One lot of people
regarded German purchases as cheerful inci-
dents. They might have sold to Australians,
but would not. Another lot said “Let it
slide, anyhow.” The few individuals who
pointed to the waste and folly of it all were
told that Australia had a tariff, or was go-
ing to get another one or something, and that
they were never satisfied whatever happened.
Well, what about it notv? Imports are pour-
ing into Australia as they never poured be-
fore. The conditions which were favorable
to the German taking root remain unaltered.
If they are not changed the chances of the
field being left vacant are about a million to
one. To this paper it seems that the ques-
tion to which Australia has to find an
answer is whether the vacancy is going to
be attended to on the premises or by some-
one at a distance, as before. If the outsider
attends to the matter, his reconstruction, or
aggrandisement or whatever he is seeking
will be materially expedited at the expense
of Australia, and not because he is a pirate
or German in disguise, but because Aus-
tralia has refused to wake up. The notion
that, bv cutting out the German and estab-
lishing in his place another individual whose
interests are not Australian, the people of
this country are doing anything of benefit
to themselves is madness. . It is a simple
business for a crowd of politicians to run up
a tariff and fling the document into the Cus-
toms Department. That has been done many
times in this country. But a tariff that does
not protect—which merely taxes—is futile
for the purposes of such industrial develop-
ment as Australia must have if she is ever to
break with the dreary story of the past. The
need for the revision of the Australian tariff
on Protective lines was urgent while the
German was doing business; it is more
urgent now. and every day that the existing
mania for importations is allowed to con-
tinue makes the future more difficult to
handle. The country cannot afford it.
Among no people are the opportunities to-
day so great for redeeming errors or for
organising to prevent abuse. And nowhere
does there seem less inclination to face the
obligations of government—or more anxiety
to blither about the affairs of other people.
HUGHES FILLS ANOTHER BALLOON.
First it was to be a National Democratic
Party. Now it it to be a Win-the-W ar
Party, with Hughes in the lead and J. C.
Watson in the chair and Alexander Pea-
cock giving a push behind, with -a committee
(but not a junta) in every State. It is to
be a non-political party. Also it is to “sup-
port in politics those men and parties who
during the war are prepared to make
national issues paramount,” these being de-
fined as “winning the war, preserving and
developing Australian national life and
maintaining Empire solidarity.” Up to last
week Australia had:
1. A Labor party.
2. A Hughes party.
3. A Cook party.
All of these accused themselves of being
anxious to see the German defeated, the
point of difference being that No. 1 objected
to compulsory service for Australians, while
Nos. 2 and 3 were-supporters of conscription
three months ago, but now agree with No. 1
that voluntary enlistment must be depended
on to prevent Australia looking like a
quitter. All three parties being agreed that
the war should be won, the time is, of
course, ripe to have another party with the
same object, so that there need be no mis-
take about the other three. At any rate,
Hughes says so. Therefore if this party
gets up on its legs safely before a general
election arrives, the citizen with a vote will
be bellowed at from four places at once by
people telling him to support one of three
parties for political purposes and to have
nothing to do with them for non political
purposes, but to rally to the assistance of a
party which wants to win the war and oblit-
erate party divisions in the electorates by
making more divisions in Parliament. It is
a weird jumble and could perhaps be met
with calmness if every elector had two votes
and each candidate for the Reps, and Senate
possessed a couple of policies; for it is obvi-
ously absurd to suppose that connected with
winninsr the war there are* not issues provo-
cative of abrupt divisions of opinion.*
Rut what this paper wants to know is
why. as there is a majority of war-winners
in the Reps, and Senate, Hughes cannot go
ahead and win the war? If he is personally
objectionable to the war-winners, what does
he mean by not removing himself into a back
seat so that the prosecution of the war may
be proceeded with more expeditiously?
Pending some explanation the public is in
danger of being misled into supposing that
when Hughes is talking of winning the war
he is thinking of winning an election and is
dodging about looking for safety behind
words. Whether .Toe Cook will suspect that
Hughes is collaring the Liberal thunder is
another matter. Meanwhile until the agitated
little man comes out into the open with a
justification for himself as Prime Minister
of the Commonwealth —with a yarn that
will reconcile his leadership of a party Gov-
ernment with his platform appeal for sup-
port of a non-political party— The Bul-
letin prefers to regard this Htjghes-
Watson-Peacock outfit as 4 a crude experi-
ment in. soaping the stairs for the benefit of
its opponents. On the confession of its own
resolutions it stands convicted of a desire
to do nothing except blow off wind, and
adjourn, and keep matters steadily in view,
and go through all the elaborate pretence
that has already sickened the community.
What Hughes really wants, of course, is an
organisation behind him and Pearce. This
league is that organisation in the making,
and it looks about as cheap as a dead rabbit.
Talk about “winning the war” from Hughes
is in the circumstances of the hour a mere
stall. He himself and his Government form
a national issue of the very first importance,
and if Parliament was not demoralised by
party intrigue the decision would be prompt.
Being in a hopeless minority he would be
turned out.
“TELEGRAM—IMMEDIATE."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a telegram which should have
reached you on Monday waits for you on
Wednesday morning, if it isn’t Thursday or
Friday, you know the official explanations
by heart —“Pressure of traffic,” “Line in-
terruptions,” “So many of our officers have
heard the call of their country and it is
impossible to replace them” —the poor nags
are ridden to death!
But what is the true explanation? Fol-
low your telegram from the time it is
handed to the receiving-clerk at the counter.
You observe he duly puts a check and a
time on it and places it in a basket. There
it waits till a boy considers there are suffi-
cient to deserve his attention. The boy takes
it, screws it up (never mind if it gets a bit
torn), presses it into a carrier and sends
it up the pneumatic tube to the operating
room. Another boy now has the handling
of it. lie drags it from the carrier and
throws it on a table, whence it is taken
by the sorter —perhaps a man—who drops
it into a receptacle, from which it is taken
by a boy when he is satisfied that there
are sufficient to be worth his attention, and
carried to the line on which it is to be trans-
mitted —if he does not place it on the wrong
file. It now comes into the hands of the
telegraphist, whose duty it is to transmit
messages, in turn, according to time of
lodgment.
An officer in authority used to boast that
this journey from the sender’s hand to the
file at the instrument occupied two minutes.
To day the message may get there in 10
minutes, but an average of recent timings
was 22 minutes.
Having been placed on a file, the telegram has
not reached its point of transmission. In the
case of inter-State traffic it is placed on a
file at an instrument on whieh it is well
known that not more than 10 per cent, of
the traffic can be handled. But here it
rests, until it is about an hour old, when
it begins a new journey to the automatic
section. Here again it comes to the hand
of a boy, to be numbered and marked off
on a sheet. This the boy does when he
has finished shying paper-balls at his com-
rades across the room, or dodging the mis-
siles they return at him. Having at last
received his attention it' waits its turn for
perforation on the Gell machine. Now again
trouble begins. The Gell is a very admi-
rable machine, and is capable of dealing
easily with 80 messages per hour when it
is in working order. But the Gells in use
to-day should have been on the scrap-heap
—well, not to be too hard, we will say five
years ago, so that it is only with consider-
able exertion that they are induced to aver-
age 40. Consequently there are not enough
Gells to deal with the traffic, and the delay
grows.
Still, no delay is eternal; and having at
last passed the perforator the message
continues its journey to the Wheatstone
transmitter, and when the line is up to
expectations is transmitted at the rate
of 150 words per minute.
Now we shall see it at the other end of
the line. As it comes through the Wheat-
stone receiver in Morse characters it is
gummed on a brown-paper form, and is
passed on to be “checked.” That is, time
of receipt and station of destination are to
be written, and the number recorded on a
sheet for the purpose. It is then placed
in a basket, and is again at the mercy of
boy till it reaches either the copying basket
or "line for further tranmission. Its troubles
are not by any means over yet. There is
the old cry of shortage of staff for transcrib-
ing purposes, with the result that your
message probably lies for 20 minutes to
anything up to an hour awaiting transcrip-
tion.
Having come into the hands of the trans-
criber. it 'is found that, owing to the worn-
out Gell having failed to accurately perfo-
rate the characters, or because the line is
not equal to the speed asked of it. or, again,
in consequence of being handled by Gefiists
who do not understand their machine, or
from any of a dozen other causes that could
be remedied, the message is unreadable, or
only partly readable, and a correction has
to be obtained from the sending station. A
simple operation, of course, but one that
takes from 20 minutes to seven days. In
the meantime the addressee will have re-
ceived a part—that is, the decipherable part
—of the message, the part in all probability
saying the very thing the whole message
was intended not to say.
Having been duly transcribed the. message
is placed in another basket, and again waits
the convenience of the boy. It ultimately
reaches the entry desk, is recorded, ad-
dressed —these operations sometimes per-
formed by adults —and passed on to the boy
to despatch per pneumatic tube to the
ground floor, where it is passed (by a boy)
from the tub.e to the despatch clerk, a fur-
ther record made, and'passed on (to a boy)
to deliver, which he will assuredly do—
when he meets a companion going in the
same direction.
No doubt a large proportion of the duties
assigned to boys could be successfully per-
formed by them if they were efficiently
supervised; but while this supervision is
lacking the public must continue to suffer
the delays that it now daily experiences.
And even with proper supervision the ser-
vice could not be satisfactory with the
present equipment.
W. F.
THE FAILURE OF PARLIAMENT.
“Rimu” puts it bluntly:—
The habit which persists in the case of shop-
walkers, waiters and persons in evening clothes of
wearing buttons in a place where buttons are no
longer of any use is an indication of the tremen-
dous progress made by mankind and the ease with
which change operates when dictated by strong
horse-sense. It doesn't take more than five or six
centuries to get rid of an unnecessary button, and a
foolish ancient law can sometimes be uprooted and
entirely cast aside after a brief agitation extending
over half a dozen generations. The proverb which
asserts that to keep lumber gathering dust on the
premises for seven years is the best way to find a
use for it fairly states the conservative human
viewpoint. By keeping it 77 years the utility
is supposed to be proportionately increased;
and the fact that it fills space and keeps out
other desirable things matters nothing at all. Aus-
' tralia, a comparatively new country rearing a new
race of men, has carried over from the past an
astonishing amount of variegated lumber which hei
citizens cherish with zeal and which is allowed to
occupy the space that might long ago have been
given to things of utility or beauty. Among these
things is that quaint, old, effete institution called
a Parliament; and so custom-bound and conserva-
tive is the Australian mind that men are still
heard to say that the poor old wreck with its mace
and its Jabberwock, its tangles of insane verbiage
and its lumbering procedure, is the bulwark of our
liberties. In the time of Edward I. of England
Parliament was a brand-new contrivance. The
mace was shining; the representatives of the nation
had zeal for their job; and the thing really did
stand for opposition to the hob-nailed autocracy
which since the Norman invasion had usurped the
functions of government. By the time of Cromwell,
however, the institution was already in decay and
Oliver ordered it off the premises and told it to
wag its whiskers somewhere else; but now, when
the big man who saw the futility of the thing has
been dead more than two centuries and a half, Par-
liaments are as thick in Australia as barnacles on a
wrecked galleon and the disease of political repre-
sentation passes for a sign of health.
It was under the Todors that Parliaments served
their purpose best; and to observe their working
in that age is to discover how far they miss the
mark to-day. In the days of the much-married
Harry parties in England were of tremendous
strength and closely organised. The Duke of
Slopshire was always up against the Earl of Dust-
bury; and behind each of these potentates was a
mob of peers, churchmen, partisans and job-hunters
who would stick at nothing- to get their party leader
into power. The king, who stood for a quiet
life and keeping the treasury full and was in a real
sense the nation, had a tougher task than pleased
him in holding the jarring factions off and pre-
venting the party leader who was on top for the
moment from walking away with his crown and
royal perquisites. Generally speaking, with the - aid
of a hefty executioner, he contrived to hold the
balance; but when things got too bad and there was
no other way out, he called a Parliament. Up from
the shires and the boroughs came the commoners.
The Speaker was chosen; the mace of authority lay
before him; and the big parties, which had threat-
ened to subvert the State and smash the King and
Constitution, and make catsmeat of the Law and
the Prophets, became mild and docile things, ready
to eat out of the hand and glad of the patronage
of some mere knight who dressed in the fashion of
the reign of Edward IV., but voted solidly in the
King’s interests. In a word, the function, of the old-
time Parliament, when the thing was alive, was to
crush party and give the nation a clear road.
To-day, in Australia, all that is changed. It is
through Parliament that parties exist and the
heavyweight machine goes lumbering on its course
with one mob pulling at the head and another at
the stern and the whole motive power expended on
making a loud noise. During the political truce of
the war the parties are more or less pledged not to
pull too hard; but the difference amounts to noth-
ing, for the machine is stuck as fast as ever, and
if the hot air isn’t coming out of it in as great
volume as usual there is plenty of the warm stuff
elsewhere and nobody seems worried on account of
it. The old function of Parliament is quite lost.
When the rage of parties threatens to destroy Aus-
tralia in one wild scream of well-directed fury, there
is no call to the representative institution to save
the nation. It can’t save anything. The simple
knight of the shire no longer exists. He is a cor
in a party machine; and when the Speaker takes his


x jlace behind the ancient absurdity of the mace, every
inember of the alleged honorable House before him
is bound, tongue and intellect, to something that is
not Australia and that does Australia no good. If
Harry VIII. had tlie job of settling, things in the
Commonwealth he would look in vain for the obi
popular instrument that served him so well and
would have to fall back on relays of executioners
as the only possible way out. To speak of Parliament
ns the defence of our liberties when the very mean-
ing of liberty is lost in Parliament itself is to talk
i vain thing and to prove that we ourselves have
tost all grip of the vital aspects of representative
institutions.
* * * *
As a plain fact, Parliament lias been a clumsy
and out-of-date machine ever since the time when
the practical Cromwell found it out; and, although
in a lame sort of way it has been made to do the
work of nations since then, other and simpler
mechanism might have done that work better and
with much greater expedition. In Australia the
thing grows more and more absurd. The Common-
wealth has big work to do—work which when the
European guns cool it will take the whole energy
ot tiie nation directed in the best possible way to
accomplish. AVe must have the best tools to work
with, and our present Parliaments are far too heavy
and far too blunt for our purpose. Keep a thing
seven years and you find a. use for it. We have
kept our elaborate and unworkable Constitution 16
and we have any amount of work for it, but there
is no indication that it can do that work. The
system has failed and now becomes a menace to
the continent; and nothing remains but that the
people should themselves step in, smash the parties
by smashing the machine through which they operate
and take over the functions of legislation in the
direct way they can understand. The Referendum
is established as a workable system; and its exten-
sion, with the Initiative in the hands of the people,
is the real safeguard of our liberties, because the
only means by which we can get forward and do
things.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Hush Business and the Nod and the
Wink.
Melbourne Age seriously suggests that the
subjects likely to come up for discussion at
the London Conference should be secretly
debated in the Federal Parliament before
the departure of whoever is going to repre-
sent Australia. The Bulletin with equal
seriousness exhorts every member of that
Parliament to whom the principles of Demo-
cratic Government are something more than
temporary expedients to resist any such
project. Democracy knows nothing of
secrecy unless it first knows what the
secrecy is about. In this case it does not.
And if there exists a single reason which
might seem to give a plausible justification
for secrecy, there are 50 which should
warn the Legislature against putting its
head into a bucket at this stage of affairs.
Once let there be a secret session for issuing
secret instructions to a representative of
this country, then the first step has been
taken towards more secrecy—towards work-
ing habitually in the gloom ; towards making
of public affairs that are vital to the nation
a game in the hole and the corner. . It is
unhappily true that where politicians can
escape from criticism and responsibility by
hiding from the people they readily suc-
cumb to the temptation; and in the long-
history of mankind’s struggle for emancipa-
tion from government by a club or a clique
or a Council of Ten to government through
a ballot-box, the worst hurdle to get over
has been that formed from men’s passion for
switching the lights off. Secret resolutions
about public policy mean a gagged Parlia-
ment and manacled electors. They mean
ignorance. They place an impassable barrier
between the constituencies and their repre-
sentatives. Australia has had enough secrecy
since this war began, Heaven knows, and is
paying dearlv for it. But one thing has been
learned: that the public man whom the
people could trust to monkey with their
affairs on the quiet has not yet been sighted.
Nor will lie be.
» ——. —.
The Stern Economies of War.
Driven by the rude blasts of battle and the
demands made upon the nation to bear the
financial strain of a war conducted on prin-
ciples more costly than any country on
earth ever dreamed of, the State Premiers
have decided oh an act of sacrifice that
should prove to the world their patriotism
and devotion. N. S. Wales stands out of
the collective sacrifice and will do some
proving alone. The others, instead of bor-
rowing £11,782,000 as in 1916, will be satis-
fied with £9,782,000 during 3917. Of this
sum £5,400,000 will be raised by the Com-
monwealth in London and £4,332,000 will
be canvassed for in Australia while the
Federal Government is gathering in as many
millions as can be found for war and waste.
Ma, of course, will grab as much as she can,
too; and as she managed to get £8,000,000
during the year of dreadful stress which
ended in June last, she can be relied upon
to do her worst with a light heart. The
division among the other States will be like
this:—
Victoria .. ..£1.552,000
Bananaland .. .. 2,910,000
S. Australia ~ ... 2.660,000
AVestralia .. .. 1,929,000
Tasmania .. . . 681,000
Total .. ..£9,732,000
Five years ago when wars were rumors and
loans to provide the new monkey-cages and
other permanent and reproductive works
could be pursued in peace and comfort,
these skinflint Governments were satisfied
with a supply of loan on this scale
Victoria .. .. £2,657,271
Bananaland .. .. 1,995.301
S. Australia . . . . 1,567,210
Westralia .. . . 1,484,367
Tasmania .. .. 300,216
Total .. ..£8,004,365
And so it pans out that, in order to
strengthen the financial position of Australia
end give the war loans a clear run, the five
■sacrificial States find they can do with
£1,728,000 more than was sufficient five years
ego, before their great national resources had
Jbeen developed by the spending of the
£55 000.000 ’which has been borrowed mean-
while. Incidentally Hughes, the “National”
“win-the-war” leader, explains that the
economies in State expenditure agreed to are
very considerable. It is just the sort of
thing that Hughes might be expected to
say. The fact is this schedule is in itself
proof of the wildest extravagance—of a
folly that is going to bring Australia to the
brink of ruin and make hash of her ideals
and ambitions.
«
The Place of Australia.
Ax a hurry-up-and-enlist meeting in Sydney
last week someone put it that “Australia
should stand behind the Mother Country, but
for whose great navy Australia would not be
in such a position of security to-day.” There
may be some force in such an appeal; but
in the judgment of this paper the Aus-
tralians to whom it is addressed are not in
any particular need of being warned to
“stand behind” either Britain or any other
country. They are doing that already, with
a great determination to keep on doing it.
In any case, the British navy has not been
the only protector of Australia from the con-
sequences of German victory. Unless that
navy had been in existence the war would
have been over and Germany a winner long
ago. But had the armies of France and
Russia not also fought with unwavering
resolution in the first year of their agony,
and had Belgium and Servia scurried away
from the enemy like frightened rabbits, the
British navy could not have prevented the
German sitting astride of Europe and Asia
from the North Sea to the Indian Ocean.
That circumstance would have altered the
whole face of the earth, and further altera-
tions would have followed in good time. Aus-
tralia cannot get away from what she is or
from what she would be if Germany won this
war. This is a vacant continent—to an over-
crowded European country, lusting for terri-
torial expansion oversea, the greatest prize on
earth. No! The place for the Australian
is not behind anyone. It is alongside of
those who are fighting for their own land
and freedom —and for ours. It is Australia’s
war, just as it was when the Australian and
Japanese warships drove the enemy’s fleet
from the Pacific. It is a war that is not
yet won ; and until it is won the shadow of
defeat rests heavily on the future of this
Commonwealth. It is mere lunacy to think
that, if the German armies are not swept
back to where they came from, Australia,
standing behind the British navy, will be
“secure” or anything x’emotely resembling it.
The German made war on Australia. lie
is killing Australian soldiers. Australian
regiments are wasting under his fire. If
the voluntary system will not make this
wastage good—if Australians cannot bear to
hear the truth and fight the battle of Aus-
tralia —then assuredly we shall have to
creep behind somebody else, and our best
hope will be that he will do our job for us.
But the Loan only knows what will happen
to our national self-resoect!
Temperance v. Fantodism.
Those Melbourne Anglicans who have been
barracking for “disinterested management” as
a sane method of temperance reform are
chortling with delight at the latest success
of the policy in the Cold Country. Through-
out an area around Carlisle, where munition-
factories are in full swing, the British
Liquor Control Board last year abolished
private enterprise in the manufacture and
sale of the stuff that bitetli like an adder. All
the pubs and breweries in the area were
bought up by the Board, which set to work
to remodel the habits of the British work-
man. Houses deemed unnecessary, or useless
owing to insanitary construction or lack of
accommodation, were promptly closed. The
remainder were placed under salaried man-
agers, who had no interest in pushing the
sale of booze : frowsy little parlors were
replaced by wide, airy halls, hung with pic-
tures and furnished with small tables at
which refreshments, alcoholic and otherwise,
might be served ; music, games and in some
cases picture-shows were provided as side
attractions: and customers were encouraged
to bring along the missus or the best girl and
make themselves at home for the evening.
Bung, the brewers and the bitterest section
of Wowserdom are the only persons dissatis-
fied with the result, which has meant
sobriety, diminution of crime, better work
and improved social conditions. The scheme
of “disinterested management” was originally
imported to England from Sweden some 12
years ago by a few unusuallv level-headed
temperance reformers who understood that
temperance doesn’t mean teetotalism. They
got the support of most of the bishops, both
Anglican and R.C.. and formed two com-
panies—the People’s Refreshment House
Association and the Home Counties Public-
house Trust —to acquire and carry on licen-
sed premises on “disinterested” lines. The
salaried managers were allowed no commis-
sion on the sale of booze, but received bonuses
on all food and non-intoxicants supplied ; and
to save the mostly parsonical shareholders
from the gibe that they were making money
out of grog, dividends were restricted to five
per cent, on capital invested, any surplus
going to improve the property and provide
gardens, pictures, skittle-alleys and other
attractions. Before the war these companies
had grown to a fair size, controlling a couple
of hundred “reformed” pubs from which their
profits were easily sufficient to pay the maxi-
mum dividend permitted by their articles and
to build up a fund for purchasing further
houses, in addition to improving those already
controlled. London County Council gave tlw
scheme its blessing in 101.'!. in the teeth of
allied opposition from “the trade” and tee-
total fanatics, allowing the “disinterested”
houses to remain in business in certain
resumed areas, though it closed up all other
pubs which fell into its ownership. The
Carlisle reform is a further step by public
authority to appropriate the scheme and turn
it into action on a large scale. But though
prominent churchmen of all brands have long
supnorted the idea in England, the Melbourne
committee still remains a voice crying in the
wilderness so far as Australia is concerned.
The Church in this country continues identi-
fied with the extremists who don’t know what
temperance means, and pins its faith to Pro-
hibition which doesn’t prohibit, or pursues
the fantod of Local Option, which closes pubs
in areas where they are already as rare as
water at Canberra, and leaves them undis-
turbed in slum districts where they are as
fecund as rabbits.
The Discouragement of Hanging Back
in the Breechin’.
Deak Bulletin, —When Australia has com-
menced to face the business of production
with understanding of what is wanted, one
of the star items of news in the daily papers
is going to read this way:—-
LANDOWNER PUNISHED.
Severe Comments by the Bench.
Judgment was given yesterday by the Full Court
on the appeal of John Sheepskin, of Oolacamung-
bung, farmer, against his conviction at the Supreme
Court on a charge under the Go Slow Prevention
Act. The grounds of appeal were (I) That the
Judge at the trial had shown bias against the appel-
lant by remarking that “he belonged apparently to a
class of men who were determined to take life
easily,” and (2) that the sentence of five years’
reformatory treatment was excessive.
The Chief Justice said the facts were simple. It
had been shown that appellant owned 3600 acres
of good land. On this property were depastured
seven ewes, one ram, one cow, four fowls. Fifty
acres had been sown in lucerne. The agricultural
implements consisted of a bucket. The improvements
on the property consisted of a dwelling of three
rooms, several fences and some gates which refused
to move. The evidence submitted by the Crown
proved conclusively that the appellant could produce
crops and animals having a value of £4OOO a year,
but he had disregarded every notice served upon
him to conform with the Act. The legislation of
last session had been passed for the express purpose
of dealing with such cases as this —of men who, hav-
ing at their disposal the means for the production of
social and national necessities, evaded their responsi-
bilityi Apparently Sheepskin had hoped to sell his
land at a profit and appropriate the added value
given to it by railway construction in the neighbor-
hood. A course of instruction in farming and citizen-
ship would do the appellant good. Future offenders
would probably be dealt with much less leniently.
The appeal would be dismissed and an order made
throwing the land open to ballot at a nominal rent.
When that happens there is at least a fair
chance of the insidious go-slow doctrine be-
insr dropped by proprietors of earth which
now produces about a fourth of what would
follow the application of brains and labor
to their landscape. -It is no use telling me
that many farmers farm their land intelli-
gently and profitably to themselves and their
country. A very large number do not, and
it is a safe thing to say that the lands
tapped by existing railways would yield
more than three times what they do
to-day, and thereby make it easier
for us to pay our railway debts, if
it were not for this infernal go-slow
disease gnawing at Cocky’s vitals. Every
Government knows this. Every man who
understands what land will do knows it.
Shake-up legislation has got to come. As an
incidental part of it. too. there will be a
section devoted to the manufacturers who
piffle along in a shed. These indi-
viduals have no right to be ornamenting the
industrial scenery. They are go-slowers.
And until someone puts a fizzgig under them
the production Australia must have is going
to take a lot of find s * 1 "—Vo'”-s. Tracker.
♦ ——
Beyond Alice Springs.
The Northern -Territory is again being dis-
covered by the average Australian citizen
through tiie delay which has occurred over the
appointment of an Excellency to continue
the slumberous progress of the Common-
wealth’s best estate. The general report
on affairs in the North is usually summed
up in the phrase “Nothin’ doin’ ” ; and the
monotony with which the public has read of
tremendous potentialities and the absolute
inertia of the Commonwealth Government
with regard to them tends to disgust every-
body with the whole problem of the warmer
half of the continent. Yet the whole
problem is really summed up in a single
phrase—lack of railway communication—-
and the Government can solve it by the
simple process of keeping its pledge to the
State of South Australia. T. E. Day.
who has been exploring and mapping out the
inland portion of the Territory, says point
blank that if one-quarter of the amount
spent in and near Darwin had been devoted to
railway and water supply at the southern
end there would be a wealthy wool- and
meat-producing industry in Central Aus-
tralia, altogether apart from the mineral
riches which might also have been tapped.
In the coastal areas there is still room for
much experiment, but the possibilities of the
region beyond the Mac Donnell Ranges are in
no doubt. Carry on the railway from Ood-
nadatta to Alice Springs and the immediate
advantage of carrying it farther will be
se?n. Settlement will follow its progress
from that point as. surely as it has followed
the course of the great Canadian trunk
lines; but by neglecting their pledge and
leaving the line at an unpayable point the
Commonwealth authorities are doing all the
harm they can to the whole project and
destroying Australian faith in the one great
national adventure which can keep the con-
tinent whole and indivisible. . The question
as to who shall administer the affairs of
the region round Darwin is of little more
vital interest to us than the appointment
of a Governor of Ceylon until the railway
connection is made; but the day when a
railway engine puffs into Alice Springs will
be an epoch-making one for White Australia.
This got past the Censor one day last week :
Professor Macintyre, official head of the recruit-
ing campaign in N. S. Wales, condemned the policy
of keeping the public ignorant of certain military
facts, on the ground that these might be of value
to the enemy.
Then lie declared that during the month of Decem-
ber no reinforcements left Australia.
Later he said that the State Commandant had
made an urgent appeal to him yesterday for 000
men—they were wanted at once.
Professor Macintyre said facts of this character
should not be kept from the public.
The truth is, as The Bulletin has again
and again declared, the censorship in Aus-
tralia has been used from first to last, not
merely for political purposes, but for party
purposes, which is worse. Matters certainly
have improved; there was a. time, not so very
long ago either, when The Bulletin was
restrained from saying that Pearce was a
weak administrator. That, too, was in the
days of a Labor Government; and equally
outrageous things were done —in fact, more
outrageous things—in the early days of
the war, when Cook was Prime Minister
and Millen was at the Defence office. What
is happening now is that a vast number of
the electors of Australia bitterly resent the
control of the business of the country by a
small body of political outcasts who are in
a hopeless minority in Parliament; and that
small body of political outcasts is busy try-
ing to keep from the public the disastrous
consequences of that resentment. This is no
time for a party Government. We ought to
have had a National Government two years
ago. And until we do have one recruiting
will be prejudiced, because, for one thing, no
matter how badly events may be going, the
party politician will declare that they are
going well. He always does. llis job
depends upon making the public believe it.
The British Government shows the Com-
monwealth Government another point.
.Simultaneously the two are issuing war
loans; but whereas Britain offers . r > per cent.
intei*st the Commonwealth quotes only -U
per cent. Yet the British loan is certainly
not as good as the Australian. The differ-
ence between the two is that the Australian
loan is free of income tax. The British
investor can “compound” his income tax;
but in that case, though it is a 5 per cent,
loan, he will get only 4 per cent. Thus,
though nominally the British loan is 4 per
cent, better than the Australian, and is
more likely to catch the eye on that account,
really it offers 4 per cent, poore/ interest.
In selling a loan, just as in selling a hat or
a bundle of drapery, the vendor is entitled
to make the best shop-window display he
can; and the Commonwealth certainly isn’t
doing it.. The Commonwealth' loan, taking
all things into account, is far better than it
looks, even from the investment point of
view.
♦
Eva Gore Booth, writing in the English
Socialist Review, brings forward something
Avhich looks not unlike evidence to show that
Roger Casement’s landing, in Ireland had
another meaning from that attributed to it
by the English Court which condemned him.
According to the story of Father F. M.
Ryan, who saw him in Tralee on April 21,
Casement was in a nursing home in Ger-
many on April 6, when news came to him
through a spy of the intended Sinn Fein
rising. He got up from his sick bed, hurried
to Berlin and begged for a submarine to take
him to Ireland in time to stop the calamity,
llis request was granted after some delay,
but the boat broke down off Heligoland, and
he had to wait some days for another. The
captain of the second submarine did not
know the Irish coast and landed him at a
point where he had no friends. Casement,
on his arrest, asked to be allowed to com-
municate with the Sinn Fein leaders and
try to stop the trouble, but the request was
not considered. He spoke to Father Ryan,
however, and his message went through all
Ireland helping to arrest the flow of blood.
That yarn may be gospel truth or a garbled
romance with a germ only of truth in it;
but it is safe to predict that it is the story
which will pass into Irish tradition. Case-
ment played a wild game in Germany which
most of his own countrymen angrily con-
demn. But he knew something of the nature
of the tragedy likely to occur in Dublin and
other centres; and it is not too hard to
believe that in order to prevent that disaster
he took all the risks and sacrificed himself
at last in a manner too decent to be under-
stood in any court out of Ireland. That at
least is a possibility and, in the phrase <sf
the Gaelic past, it will be a “tale for other
days.” What no jury of Englishmen con'd
possibly grasp is the fact that an Irishman
could go to his death keeping a secret which
would have put an altogether different com-
plexion on his later conduct through a subtle
sense of loyalty to his own people. Case-
ment claimed the right to be tried in Ire-
land. Not being tried in Ireland, he could
not bring forward in evidence matters which
were entirely between the people of Ireland
and himself.
* :
“N.”: The Riverina has about 20 different
kind of mosquitoes, among them the insect
with the tiger-marked wings. This fellow,
instead of doing his work with his body
parallel to the human who supplies his food,
finds it more efficacious to get his trunk and
body in a line at an inclination of about
60 degrees. Very few people have any
stronger objection to the attentions of this
insect than they have to the bite of any
other variety; but he is the anopheles
mosquito which inoculates with malaria
The Sea of the Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fishermen, fishermen, what is your catch?
Have you drawn good herring, or mackerel
fine?
Did the full net strain?- Did the big fish
snatch
At the tempting bait on the singing line?
Fishermen, fishermen, say, oh say,
What is the tale of your toil to-day?
Oh, we went out with our trawling nets,
Out of the bay, where the big seas roll;
And we went out where the swift tide sets
And the breakers curl on the sandy shoal;
And we have been out on the rocks since
dawn.
And our lines, all day, we have cast and
drawn.
But what of the catch, men, tell me first!
Ah, the tale of our toil is too foul to tell,-
For we have been fishing in seas accurst,
And we have been casting our nets in Hell.
Idleman, idleman, go, now go!
What we have caught is not good to know.
A babe and her mother was all our spoil;
And dead men’s limbs were the most we
drew;
And we had nought for our long day’s toil,
Till the sea at our feet three corpses threw.
Idler and fisher, now let us flee
From the sight and the sound of the charnel
sea.
MAJORCA.
J. LINDO-WEBB.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., t
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntaii y
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Dis 1
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Offices Corner Pitt
&, King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, General
Manager,
PS
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
99
U
U n derwear
Xo see the Jason Brand on a garment
is to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert tashuning have
gone to its making.
New '* Olympic " Brand.
Owing to the high prices'of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton —bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng«
Ab 6 7
when lie can. At present he can’t, since there
is no supply of malaria to draw on; but is
it anybody’s business to see that malaria is
not introduced to the district where this
carrier of 'infection exists? Perhaps the
Government, the shire or municipal councils
think it will be time to take steps to destroy
the mosquito when the returned forces from
the Tropics introduce malaria to the differ-
ent localities where this mosquito is known
to flourish.
If the Overseas Markets Shrink.
The menace of the German submarine may
make England almost a self-supporting
country before the war is over. Grain is
to be grown in Bushey and Richmond Parks,
which for generations have been show places
basking in idleness within a few miles of
London’s hungry East End. Potatoes are
to be grown in public pleasure grounds
throughout the country; even Hyde and
Regent’s Parks and Kensington Gardens are
to have space devoted to the culture of such
vegetables as will stand London fog and
smoke. Presumably these are only the pub-
lic end of a vast national movement to secure
the independence of the dinner-table from
enemy attacks. All over England there are
wide areas of private park and forest kept
for sporting purposes or for mere landscape
effect, and if these are tilled with care and
sown in suitable crops it is just possible
that Britain might feed her millions without
aid from overseas. large wheat crops
can be grown on the heavy soils of the Mid-
lands and on the rich, red tertiary forma-
tions of the eastern counties; and the forced
application of science to the attempt to
increase the food supply might have sur-
prising results. One agricultural expert,
working in Norfolk, declared seven or eight
years ago that he could raise 100 bushels of
wheat per acre from the same land year after
year without exhaustion by a suitable
system of manuring. Presumably, the
same kind of thing is going on in Ger-
many and France; and if close cultivation
became the rule the demand for Australia’s
primary products might slump strangely
after the war. Britain is looking some
distance ahead; and it is up to Australia
also to try to see some of the possibilities of
the future. If the markets for our primary
products should shrink, only our extent and
variety of industries can save us. AVhile
Britain nushes on with the cry “England
expects every man to grow his own pota-
toes,” Australia might well raise the shout
“Australians their own manufacturers.” And
that brings us to the tariff —the point to
which most of our patriotic desires lead.
Peace, Bash and Recruiting.
The whine of Imperial AVilliam that his
enemies “do not possess a man able and
firm enough to liberate the world by making
a peace proposal” sounds as if he was feel-
ing worried about the matter. But what
about the Imperial AVilliam himself? The
German has really made no offer of peace.
He has only issued a wordy proclamation
that he is ready to talk about it, and when
the Allies replied with a statement of their
views on fche subject, he bitterly asked the
world to notice that his honest offer had
been rejected with contempt, and that the
Lord was strengthening the Teuton arm. It
all makes a very interesting story. The Ger-
man idea, first of all, was to bash . Europe
into insensibility and then hand out Kultur
to the victims of the assault. Next he was
seized with the notion of capitalising his
conquests so far as thev went, and to that
end he worked witn great assiduity to break
the alliance against him. AVhen that failed
he commenced to have a suspicion that the
best thing to do was to save his bacon on
the basis of letting bygones be bygones and
quitting while he looked like a winner. Now,
while William is filled with remorse at
having been unable to “liberate the world”
by trampling it underfoot, the main difficulty
of the Allies is and has been not to find an
individual firm enough to make peace pro-
posals, but to perfect an organisation capable
of enforcing peace at the end of a bayonet;
and the problem of whether they have suc-
ceeded in doing this is one that they and
William have yet to find out. In the mean-
time it is not much use being cocksure about
anything except this: that the job on hand
is a stupendous one. The final tests of
endurance have not yet been made; but if
they ever are made it is probable that the
crumple-up will be as swift as the collapse
of a pile of undermined bricks. AVitliout
reserves of men and supplies the war could
not be carried on a week. But attrition cuts
two ways, and a point incidental to this and
of interest to Australia is that the recruiting
figures hereabouts must look more cheerful
in Berlin than anywhere else on earth.
A cable message from London published in
Australian newspapers the other day repre-
sented that “a distinguished statesman” was
appealing to Australia not to wreck the
Imperial Conference, and had gone on to
remark that —
Australia merely smacks the Mother Country’s
face, declaring that she cannot adjust her domestic
politics at the most critical moment of the war.
Heaven knows what this distinguished per-
son has been reading about Australia lately;
but if he is not a spook it seems that the
time has arrived for someone to tell him to
sit down and behave himself. Australia has
smacked nobody’s face. But she has had her
own countenance rather severely assaulted
lately by a garrulous little person who in-
sists on making the country look ridiculous.
It is not the fault of the people of Australia
that there is delay in announcing the repre-
sentation of the Commonwealth at the Con-
ference. The circumstance is wholly due to
one individual attempting to manipulate the
Parliamentary machine for his own advan-
tage, and to so pull the wires that, unrepre-
sentative and discredited though he may
be, he shall manage to be let loose again in
London as the delegate of the Common-
wealth. How much longer is the Federal
Parliament going to suffer their country to
be misjudged by the standard of this mis-
chievous man?
Senator Lynch, Federal Minister for
Works, talking last week to his Ivalgoorlie
constituents, said that he and the other
Labor members who had left the party had
done so because they could not otherwise
maintain their self-respect. As a good demo-
crat, Lynch might now explain what he did
with his self-respect when he took office in a
new Government (1) whose leader’s, policy
had just been defeated at the polls, and (2)
whose leader has the smallest following in
the Reps. Also, he might mention what
happened to his self-respect when he retained
office in a Ministry whose conduct of the
business was turned down Hat at the first
time of asking in the House of which he is
a member.
The Vic. agriculturist is already getting
practical returns for his sub. to the. new
farmers’ union. The latest is tlm fixing ol
maximum prices for fertilisers. For a long
time the farmer has been protected, by State
“interference.” from the inclusion of. exces-
sive sand in his fertilisers; but while the
sand-contents have crawled down prices have
poked up. Apparently there are several
firms competing in the sale of these manures;
but prices have been wonderfully alike, allow-
ing for differences in contents. It may be a
coincidence, but it looks more like a mammal
understanding.
A Sydney father tells the press a ghastly
story of how his 12-year old daughter visited
an apparently clean public lavatory, and a
few days later was round by a doctor to be
suffering from syphilis. The shocking occur-
rence ought to about lay the “Wages of Sin
superstition; also, it badly mauls the mealy-
mouthed theory that only the male party to
the marriage bargain need be asked for a
clean health bill.
Sydney water-front rubbed its eyes when
an unexpected Yankee lumber schooner
dropped anchor in Double Bay. According
to her Customs entry she was “bound from
Eureka, U.S.A., to Auckland; entered for
provisions and water.” The oldest shell-
back on the Exchange Corner had never
heard anything to beat that. In the run
across the Pacific the schooner had clean
missed Maoriland, and with a couple more
degrees’ alteration in her course she would
have missed Australia, and had a clear run
to Patagonia!
It is rumored that the Belgians want to
relieve the shortage of eggs in Germany by
giving up their share of the German yolk.
The Allies are confident that Austria is
in the soup. Vienna is understood to wish
it was.
“J.A.K.” : It gave me great joy yesterday
to see a policeman stop a G.P.O. mailcart
in Pitt street, Sydney, and take the driver s
name. The poor lame beast seemed to be in
want not only of a vet.’s care but of a
square feed. It would give me added
joy if some of these postal officials could be
fined for their slovenly dress.
Practically every prisoner in the hands of
the Germans complains of the mixture ot
sawdust in the food his captors give him.
This is how the Kaiser translates the Eng-
lish “board and lodgings.”
“The Old Soldier” scents it from afar
The Dobrudja! I well remember that detestable
maze of swamps and reedy lakes when the British
and French armies in the Crimea used the port of
Varna as a sort of secondary base to sort out their
supplies and to give their men a run on shore.
Transports, in those days, were small and slow, rarely
over 1000 tons, and able to crawl up to 10 knots if
they had steam, but most of them were sailers. Dob-
rudja was then a notoriously unhealthy district, and
the first lot of men who were landed got malarial fever
in a bad form. When that began to abate, the doc-
tors were startled by a frightful epidemic of Asiatic
cholera. It was my first introduction to the horror,
and after later experiences of it in what is supposed
to be its native country I’m satisfied that the
Roumanian brand is equal to anything India can show.
I hope it satisfies the Huns !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SUOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cinema Star
Criterion “Mum Dawson, Boss
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle I’lays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Handies
White City Various Shows
Wirths’ Hippodrome .... “A Daughter of the Gods ’
MEI.ItOI’HNE SHOWS FOK CtftflNG WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built’’
Royal “The House of Glass’’
King’s “Happy-go-lucky O’Shea'
Princess’s “She Stoops to Conquer
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “Ramona’
“She Stoops to Conquer,” at Melbourne
Princess’s, puts another feather in the cap
of Allan Wilkie as a producer of ancient
plays in the spirit of all-time. The comedy,
which was full of modern point when Oliver
Goldsmith wrote it, had an interestingly
humorous “go” in its revival last Saturday ;
certainly it looked older and more out of date
when it was staged at the lloyal eight years
ago—a revival that had dropped out of the
present historian’s recollection till he was
reminded of it. On that occasion, when liar-
court Beatty and Madge Mclntosh were
starred as Young Marlow and Kate, the play
was cut down to three acts, and a curtain
rose on the ale-house scene. VV ilkie starts
it on the original lines, with the explanatory
discussion between himself (.as the old
Squire) and Mrs. Ilardcastle, and arranges
the five Coldsinithian acts into four, with
improved effect. The comedy holds together
better than it did in the previous condensa-
tion ; the tone of the performance is made as
sentimental as can he under the far-fetched
circumstances of the boisterous plot, and this
tone strikes one as being well suited to pre-
sent popular taste; and scenery and dressing
and a good, hard-working orchestra help
along to a notable success. _ On the lirst.
night a little speech by Wilkie after the
vegetable tributes had been served brought a
happy performance to a graceful ending.
* * * *
Goldsmith’s comedy, like “School for
Scandal,” is full of pink parts for persuasive
people. The most difficult to naturalise are
the characters of Tony Lumpkin, an oafish,
mischievous practical joker, who, after all,
is not a bad sort in his selfish way save as
regards his cruel contempt for a stupidly-
fond mother; Marlow, the ultra-bashful
young man in the presence of refined women,
but a devil of a fellow after barmaids; and
Diggory, the dull, bucolic clown endeavoring
to ape the manners of a full-blown flunkey.
Diggory (Fred Patey) was an irritating blot
on the show —as lfiggorys in general are apt
to be —not because of his extravagant
behavior, but because he seemed conscious of
it. There were no other blots. Landor is
the right figure of a Tony (although his face
looks old for 21). and he accentuates the
ready-xvittedness of the bumpkin by subdu-
ing the noisy buffoon in his character.
Vivian Edwards, whilst giving a lot of hand-
some swagger to young Marlow when he
fancies himself, is mostly convincing in his
fit of nervousness where he meets Kate, and
in his air of modest sincerity after fie has
become ashamed of himself. Certainly it is
the best thing Edwards has done in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
Allan Wilkie presents a Squire Ilardcastle
who is essentially a sober gentleman of his
boozy period. Ilis amazement at. the impu-
dence of his misinformed guests seems as
natural as his strict regard for the law.s of
hospitality. His a.ltection for his daughter
is expressed with real old-fashioned cour-
tesy. 11 is good-nature is ingrained. The
actor identifies himself Avith this genial
character more easily than he identifies him-
self Avith its near blood-relation, Sir Peter
Teazle. And Miss Hunter-Watts is a charm-
ing Kate Hardcastle —of a sort. Not the
conventional sort of high-spirited wench who
revels in the deception she is practising on
Marlow, but a sweet, thoughtful, mtensely-
dutiful young woman. A demure humorist
Avith a gentle rather than a saucy or Bunty
talent for managing men. Miss Gladys
LeDh makes a consistently satisfactory Mrs.
Ilardcastle, Avith not more than a reasonable
quantity of acid in her composition. Miss
Lorn a Forbes is a bright and lively (but
somewhat rough) Constance to the uneven
Hastings of Walter Hunt, who is always
stagev when he draws up a note of deep
emotion from his boots. Varna is a good
Sir Charles in th,e last act, and Cosgrove,
Dore and Miss Ne*y also run.
Next Monday niglit there will be a tem-
porary interruption of the run of “She
Stoops.” It will be the anniversary of the
Wilkie co.’s first appearance in Melbourne,
and in honor of the occasion they are to pre-
sent a mixed Shakspearian bill and a few
extra musical items.
“The Cinema Star” continues to sparkle,
at ller Majesty's (Sydney). Telescopes
can't assist The Bulletin to discern any
sign of a fading away.
“The Bunyip” continues its gay corrob-
uree at Sydney Adelplii, and the enterprising
Fullers are not feeling at all sorry for them-
selves for having backed Ella Airlie’s bright
Australian panto, for the box-office stakes.
Usual matinees on Wednesdays and Satur-
days.
At Sydney Criterion our own good coun-
try will have a look-in on Saturday evening,
when a new Australian comedy, “Mum Daw-
son, Boss,” Sumner Locke’s work, will be
presented for the first time by the Bert
Bailey people. The gum-leaf season will
last only two weeks.
“Our Selection” will have the sliprails
put up on Friday night at Sydney Royal,
and from Saturday the Bert Bailey family
will camp at the Criterion.
“Peg” will peg out to-morrow night, after
which Builder and Renovator will star in
the Sydney Palace for a brief season.
The bill at the Tivoli (Sydney 1 is so
entertaining this week that customers who
use naked language at the box office when
asked to shell out the amusement tax make
apology at the close of the'show. Some of
them offer to pay a double tax even if they
have to raffle their grandmother to raise
the money. The juggling Togos, from the
land where the paper lanterns glow, Sydney
James and Billy, Madeline Rossiter, Owen
Lewis, Connie Milne, Desmond, Gray stone
and the merry and bright Vaude and Verne
are at the old address, and since this blush-
ing journal last attracted ecclesiastical atten
tion Lingarde, a poseur of classical sculp-
ture, and Rose and Dell, eccentric dancers
and acrobats, have joined them. Both new
turns are worth their place in the strong
programme.
“THE PASSING SHOW,” AT
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Strollers James and Desmond in a curate
dance.
A succession of carnivals at the White
City ( Sydney! is making the big amuse-
ment park a very profitable concern. To-
night the most elaborate show of the season
to date will be dressed as a lantern festival.
Silent drama in Sydney this week :
Hoyt’s: “The Soul Market,” in which Olga Pet-
rova sidesteps the white-slave traffic and sets the
pace for her chauffeur; “The End of the Trail,”
strenuous days with Wm. Farnum in the old Hudson
Bay settlement.
Lyceum : “American Aristocracy,” Douglas Fair-
banks in a whirlwind of humorous adventures; and
“The Waifs,” the tragedy of a parson who got drunk
on the bishop’s punch.
Cuystal Palace: “The Law Decides,” a new
concoction of the old ingredients—marriage, jealousy
and divorce; “His Busted Trust,” a Triangle-Key-
stoner.


pOORD^SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
r
O
%
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
A DELIGHTFUL STIMULANT.
JJaniel (rawfords
RED STAR WHISKY
r
Va
The "WARREGO" SHIRT
An Improved Style for Outdoor Workers.
The man Outback needs a STRONG Shirt —something to withstand
wear and washing; but there is no reason why it should not
also embody neat style. Peapes’ Warrego Shirt is as strong as
light shirts can be made —and it looks well. The material has
a pattern of tiny squares close set (see illustration), thus
forming pleasing tones of Grey or Buff. The soft collar is
attached and buttons at peak. Two pockets with expanding
pleats and buttons.
Ready to Wear, 6/6.
Please state usual collar size.
PEAPES & CO LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
Allen Doone, back at Melbourne King’s,
is again festively apparelled as a new
romantic adventurer professing the same
old affection for Edna Iveeley. This time
Doone’s alias is Larry O’Shea, and he weds
Edna in a twilit prologue while wandering
about in the disguise of a half-witted gypsy
idly strumming a zither and warbling non-
sense to the moon. As, however, he objects
to the winning of a missus by false pre-
tences, Doone subsequently pretends to be
dead so that he may reappear and honorably
woo his divinity as Allen plain and un-
adorned. Three acts are then devoted to
blarneying Edna with amorous intent; but
not even the provocation of a dirtily rival,
who borrows some of his thunder and tries
"THE CINEMA STAR," AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Freddy the movie actor (Percy Clifton) and
the “Rolling Stone ” (Clyde Cook).
to get him gaoled for debt, can induce him
to disclose his former identity to his wife.
Until the end, when he describes his share
in the midnight wedding, Allen simply con-
fines himself to sliming his prey in his cus-
tomary artless manner. Honey drops from
his lips and he combs his thoughts for clever
endearments, while Edna puts up an enor-
mous pretence as a spoilt and pettish darling
with wicked words on her tongue and the
Wedding March in her heart. It has all
been done so often before that the “business”
contains no element of surprise for even
those who are moderately acquainted with
the mummers’ methods. Edna is a resume
of all the previous Ednas we have seen in
earlier Doone dramas. Her pout is a classic,
and her smile and curls are only the left-
off adornments of Molly McGuire, Kathleen
O’Reilly or some other heroine. Similarly
Doone amounts to a mere reiteration. Even
the green coat and hat are brought in again
and the usual green songs are sung in the
old falsetto. Cullenane and Buckley are pre-
sumed to bo lights of Dublin society, but
they would have been better cast as com-
bative members of the Ancient Disorder of
Hibernians. Ethel Bashford is billed as an
actress; Onslow Edgeworth is embarrassed
with the small villainies of Captain Aubert;
and Messenger Beilis and Joseph North,
Maurice Lynch, Vincent White, Ethel Grist
and others have a small share of the general
conversation. Barring Lynch as a vociferous,
white-gaitered bailiff, none of them are of
much account.
* s': * *
Melbourne Royal is just now the place
where “The Woman” has ceased to be. The
theatre will remain empty until Saturday,
when Miss Florence Rockwell and co. come
over from Sydney with “The House of
Glass.”
* * :I:
The annual nanto. at Melbourne Majesty’s
continues to carrv a title which doesn’t
matter and a “book” which would be burned
by the common hangman if it got its deserts.
The Animated Dolls are still deriving their
animation from a mysterious source, and the
Chinaman has yet to be discovered who could
identify the Procession of Vegetables by the
natural products of his market-garden. Also
the Cow with a Crumped Horn persists in
chiming the half-hour and quarters when she
is milked, and the nublic pays its amuse-
ment tax with a good grace.
At Melbourne Tivoli the performance has
started to lose daylight by commencing at
8.30 p.m. A welcome break in the monoto-
nous puerilities of the Follies is supplied
by a rigid comedy of conjugal infidelity,
which gives Vera Pearce, Sydney Yates and
co. a chance to be amusing. Also Belle
Oliver, a pupil of the Coon Academy of,
Music, sings three songs in glad raiment.
The lady has a personality and a contralto
voice, but her ditty of admiration for Aus-
tralia and Australians is the limit in mush.
The change of programme by the Dandies
at St. Kilda (Vic.) last week included a
small impression by Joseph Brennan of old
Matthias in “The Bells.” The comedian de-
clared that, he had borrowed the impersona-
tion from H. B. Irving; but Irving, if he
had seen it, might not have recognised
his property. Apart from Ford Waltham,
who on one evening got out “On the Deep'
and seemed to lose his rudder, all the rest
of Brock’s people were entirely satisfactory ;
and Pearlie McKenzie, disguised as a Dutch
maiden, was better even than that.
“The River of Romance,” filmed by the
IToyt firm in Melbourne last Saturday,
shows that canoodling is largely a matter
of scenery. Harold Lockwood and May
Allison, who play the chief roles, start boat-
ing in the Thousand Island district of the
River St. Lawrence, and everybody knows
what will happen under the influence of
their enchanting surroundings. “The
Italian” and “The Unwelcome Mother,” the
other feature films, are not so emotionally
attractive as the riverside wrestle; still they
provide some exceptional opportunities for
George Beban and Madame Yalkyrien in
the principal parts.
* * *
“Ramona,” the new screen-play at Mel-
bourne Auditorium, is telling a protracted
love-story of early California, and inci-
dentally reciting the wrongs of the Red-
skins under the rule of Uncle Sam a lmlf-
century ago. Samuel is the prize villain of
the picture, and the incendiarism and gun-
play that distinguish his citizens when their
land-hunger is roused contrast very unfavor-
ably with the yards of prayer which repre-
sent the lot of the Indian under the cart 1 of
the Spanish and Mexican missions. The
film is really a post-dated indictment of
Amurkan misgovernment, and has no pre-
sent significance. Still the story is inter-
esting. and faithfully depicts scenes of love,
courtship and racial inter-marriage, wherein
the name of Ramona is perpetuated through
three generations, as fulsomely described in
Helen Hunt Jackson’s original novel. The
principal characters are Spanish, Greaser or
Indian, and mantillas, guitars or Mexican
hats figure in almost every incident. The
feature of the film, however, is the excellent
photography, which does justice to the
scenery and old Spanish civilisation of
Southern California.
“Copabella”: The true spirit of demo-
cracy was shown at a Melbourne suburban
court the other day. The ‘ttrunk and dis-
orderly” had been fined, with homily added,
by the honorary beak, and he strolled up
to the clerk to hand over the cash. As he
did so he ran his sobering eye over the Bench.
“Oh, hello, Albert!” he said affably to the
city father (and probably old schoolfellow)
sitting there. Even Albert laughed.
“S.S.”: There was a motor accident in
Bay-street. Port Melbourne, the other even-
ing. My friend arrived just afterwards.
There was a crowd, a hot and embarrassed
motor-owner, an indignant woman and a
husband whose fury was frightful to see.
Two strangers were holding the man while
the foundry-grimed son of industry poured
out his wrongs in a stream of invective shod
with profanity. From his inflamed remarks
it was gathered that the fiendish motorist,
driving with murderous recklessness, had
dashed into the perambulator and hurled it
to a distance, wrecking its contents utterly
and forever. “But the baby—the baby!”
was the motorist’s distracted appeal. The
man tore ahead with his oratory. Three
times more the motor-owner cut in with
“What of the child? Where is the baby?”
At length the righteous man condescended
to explain. “Baby!” he screamed. Then as
if revealing to the motorist for the first time
the full horror of his dastardly act: “That
p’rambulator hadn’t no baby in it —it was
full of beer!”
Suggested international song for the
1.W.W.: “Keep the Home Fires Burning.”
He was responding to some toast or other
at the wedding breakfast. He beamed on
the gathering with the good-natured superi-
ority of a man of 50 who had lost much hair
and little flesh in his 20-odd years of double
harness. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he said,
after he had wished the happy couple life-
long happiness, “when I was married I
thought I was going to live in a .sort of
Garden of Eden—perpetual bliss —sunshine
—-all that sort of thing. But it wasn't so.
I soon found out that wliatT had done was
merely to —ah —join another debating
society.”
A recent smash on the Melbourne-Burwood
electric tramway, when a car left the rails,
turned turtle, and tore out a big tree by the
roots, at least provided a good advertise-
ment for Australian woods and workman-
ship. Beyond broken glass (imported) and
considerable gravel-rash the vehicle sustained
little damage.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Fax” : “Sundry Shows” was very forget-
ful in stating that “She Stoops to (Conquer”
hadn’t been played in Melbourne for more
than 25 years. It was staged at Melbourne
Royal in 1008. Madge Mclntosh and
Maggie Knight were principal women in the
revival,' which came to pass without much
flourish of trumpets and didn’t take long to
pass. It was the Brough-Boucicault produc-
tion of “She Stoops” (at the Bijou) that
was boomed some 25 years agone. Mrs. B.
was Kate Hardcastle, and Brough played
Tony Lumpkin not more effectively than
Gannain impersonated the out-of-date bump-
kin in the more recent production.
“Melb”: “She Stoops to Conquer” was
last played at Melbourne in the Royal, with
Athol wood as Hardcastle, Beatty as Mar-
low, and Cannam as Lumpkin. Before that
a good while it was acted, at the old Prin-
cess’s, by Miss De Grey’s company, with
Kinghorne as Lumpkin. The piece has been
rarely seen since Barry Sullivan’s manage-
ment at the Royal, when Stewart was
Lumpkin, Lambert was Hardcastle, and Heir
was Marlow. Ohas. Young left the company
because he refused to study Lumpkin at
short notice. However, he was soon engaged
again. Incidentally. Young and Stewart
played Khorsanbad alternately in Sullivan’s
Christmas pantomime “Lalla Rookh.”
Lumpkin was a favorite part with Coppin.
“Masetto” : During the last production of
“She Stoops to Conquer” in Melbourne, nine
years ago, there was an extra thrill in the
love scene between Hastings (Gaston Mer-
vale) and Miss Neville (Winifred Gunn).
Hastings’s eighteenth-century wig caught fire
from the lighted candle used in the scene. The
gallery shouted a warning, but the players
continued their business until the conductor,
Wynne .Tones, called across the footlights,
whereon Miss Gunn smothered the flames
with her handkerchief.
“Jimmy” Ure, who died in Melbourne
last week, was conductor for a while of the
Williamson orchestra, and at different times
had a lot to do with musical shows. But he
suffered from a heart trouble, and of late
years he figured only in private practice.
He had one fair daughter—beautiful Gladys
Ure —who might have made a mark as a
musician and singer had her physique been
equal to her talent. The girl went to
America, was boomed for a few weeks as an
Australian beauty, and then fell sick and
dropped out of notice.
“Buffalo Bill” (Colonel W. F. Cody) is
dead, in his 71st year. He earned his pro-
fessional moniker through the contract which
lie carried out to furnish the Kansas Pacific
Railway with all the buffalo meat required’
to feed the laborers engaged in the construc-
tion (18(57-8). In 18 months he killed 4280
of the beasts. After being employed as
scout in various engagements against the
“Reds” he, in 1883, organised the “Wild
West Show” —the first of about a million of
them.
“Van Eck”: Adelaide audiences have, as
G. P. Huntley says (B. 11/1/T7), a keen
sense of humor. In my experience as a
dramatic critic in Adelaide I found they were
so responsive that they laughed loudly‘before
the joke arrived. For instance, when
J.C.W., Ltd., staged “Faust” the play opened
to a scantily-filled house. Then suddenly it
got around the town that “Faust” was
funny. The success of the season was
assured. Adelaide laughed itself hoarse over
the drama and reckoned it was the best joke
of the year. Alsq it smiled in glee over
Irving’s tragic scene in “Louis XI.”;
chuckled audibly when Oscar Asclie drowned
one of the characters in “Kismet” in the
Harem scene; and, to cap all. grinned joy-
ously at the pathetic phases of “The Blue
Bird.” So it’s not much of a testimonial
the comedian gives S.A., after all.
“M.P.A.”: “8.D.” (B. 11/1/’l7) tells
about a cocky farmer who cornered an ibis
camp and thereby got even with a mean
camera man. That farmer needn’t worry. On
December 5 last I screened a big star movie
at Kerang (Vic.) and before the show a
local doctor got the operator to throw on a
few slides of ibis studies he had taken. I
was then informed of the thousands of ibis
on the swamps and rivers thereabouts. That
evening a cinematographer, well known to
me, arrived in the town and early next day
commenced cinematographing. How he got
the birds is best known to the camera man.
1 met him the day after he did the job and
learned that he had turned some 800 ft. on
the birds. I subsequently saw the negative,
showing flights and other studies, and it is
good stuff. It was a rare scoop. Now,
what about the “corner”?
“Stargazer” : We have just had an oppor-
tunity of comparing filing and “legitimate”
production of a fairly good play. “The
Woman” was screened in Melbourne only a
week or two before its appearance on the
Royal stage, and after witnessing both dis-
plays of the same Americanism, I am sur-
prised most at the small importance of dia-
logue in conveying what few ideas the play
contains. Nothing whatever was to be
gathered from the stage version which the
screen did not convey with the use of probably
something less than 100th part of the talk
and in several respects the picture play was
distinctly superior to that done by material
mummers. The important telephone busi-
ness was far more effective as depicted by
the vshadow.v hero and the photographic
Wanda Kelly than as interpreted in the solid
flesh at the Itoyal. Of course on the screen
we did not get Jim Blake’s “My boy, a
reformer is only a grafter out of a job!”
Nevertheless the comparison satisfies me
that in nine cases out of ten the picture can
give you all you want of the successful
illiterate play.
“Dou Par”: Although Gaston Mervale
has returned to Australia it is doubtful
whether he will be seen on the stage during
bis engagement with the Tait brothers.
Mervale hates limelight more than a com-
edian dreads a beer famine. All he wants
to do is to “produce.” What interests him
most in the theatre is “the chaos of a first
rehearsal.” It gives him something to
wrestle with.
“Glen Huntly” : When Taylor Darbyshire,
who bosses the Firm at the Melbourne end,
complained in the press that daylight saving
was having a prejudicial effect on the Firm’s
business, as people didn’t like going to the
theatre in broad daylight, somebody asked :
“Why not start the shows later?” and was
told that there would not then be time for
theatre-goers to catch the last trains. A day
or two after Darbyshire had spoken the Firm
put on “The Woman,” which, with the assist-
ance of two intervals, only succeeds in last-
ing two and a quarter hours. This play and
most of the other Yankee productions
featured by the Firm could start at half-past
eight and finish nearly an hour before the
departure of practically all the last suburban
trains. Eight o’clock is an absurdly early
hour at which to begin a performance. It
leaves golfers and other workers inade-
quate time in which to scramble into their
waiters’ clothes, and means that the diners-
out must either leave before tue liqueurs
arrive or arrive at the theatre after the show
has begun. Even in London, where darkness
comes so much earlier than here, half-past
eight or later is the usual hour for commenc-
ing.
Through illness Little Tich recently
dropped out of the London Hippodrome
revue, “Flying Colors,” and bis place was
taken by W. S. Percy. London Referee men-
tioned that he was “an admirable substi-
tute,” and “in a task of great difficulty came
through with flying colors” ; and other papers
filled the pint-pot of praise and handed it to
the Australian.
Another actor killed in action is Sliiel
Barry, son of the original Miser in “Les
Cloches de Corneville.” He took the cue from
. Lionel Mackinder, Tom Dawson, Basil Hal-
lam and many more.
“0.K.”: The authors of these American
humorless dramas, such as “The Woman,”
practically try to shift all their responsibility
on to the performers. They show mechani-
cal skill in constructing “good acting plays”
—plays in which only mummers of marked
personality and exceptional dramatic force
can make good. No suitable actor of fair
ability can fail to make Hamlet interesting,
more or less; and in modern melodrama any
passable stock company can do “Silver
King” effectively. The characters are per-
sonalities, the plot is full of humanly truth-
ful suggestion, and the course of events is
sprinkled with pleasing sentiments. But
the Yankee graft-and-craft dramas have
nothing to recommend them to favor except
the opportunities they offer for very good
acting. The performers are expected to
blind the public’s eyes to the unreality of the
situations. The mummers must impart f
glamor of naturalism to the story, or it h,
utterly unconvincing. And there can be £♦
illusion anywhere if the cast has two
three weak spots.
(Continued on page 3Jf.)
THE PROBLEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dressing of principals, dancers and choruses
presents a greater problem to producers than ever
before.- —Australian manager.
Time was in gaudy pantomime
Or op’ra when the girl
Just smirked and sang her little rhyme
Or danced a fancy twirl.
With dress they didn’t load her.
Those goods she wore
Which, aft and fore,
To best advantage showed her.
But nowanights in gay revues
Or pantomimes the maid
From swanking hair to satin shoes
Is wondrously arrayed.
And what the boss oppresses
Is how to show »
The girl also
While she displays the dresses!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


A FRIEND IS A SECOND SELF.
Try
Joha S trange w
inter’s
SAVON MARQUISE.
Price, 1/- per cake, or 2/10 per Box of Three Cakes.
A PURE, BLAND AND BENEFICENT SOAP
Instantly softens the hardest water, and therefore
the user begins the second stage of the toilet —that
is the using of our
Lakshmi Skin Cream or Lotion and Poudre Marquise
ending with a skin of satin-like smoothness.
Ask for our other Toilet Preparations, viz.: Dental
Cream, Perspiration Powder, New Face Cream, Creme
Marquise, Hair Foods, Shaving Sticks, etc , etc., a 1
obtainable from Drapers, Civil Service, W. H. Soul
and Co., etc., etc.
Awarded Six Gold Medals —London, Paris and Rome.
&
n
&
2E£
The Bulletin
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably svith any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
The Bulletin
“McNortli”: On certain Torres Strait
islands, where there is no resident mission-
ary, power is given to the Samoan and other
teachers to perform a kind of preliminary
marriage between natives who desire to get
spliced, the proper ceremony being carried
out by a visiting man later on. The idea ot
the scheme is to bind these children of
impulse while they are
keen on the matter, and
so check immorality. For
a time it worked well;
but black brother has be-
gun to find out that the
first part of the arrange-
ment is not legally bind-
ing and that he and his
trial wife cannot be com-
pelled to undergo the
second and final perform-
ance. There has been
more than one case lately
of pairs, after a couple
of months of “married”
life, refusing to have the
agreement ratified, and
forcibly stating their
whole-hearted disillusion-
ment —in some cases
even their intense dis-
like. All the thunder of
the church has failed to
bring them up to scratch.
In fact, from a theologi-
cal point of view, this
experiment of marriage
by instalments lias been , . .
proved a distinct failure; but it has a lot to
recommend it otherwise. x
How Billjim takes his wounds:—
Funny things happened in the fighting at Romani.
The bullets were like hail. You could feel the wind
of them as they went past your ear. One of the
chaps who was hit close to me jumped about six feet
into the air, yelling with delight. “Hurrah!” he
shouted. “Couldn’t have ordered a better one.
He was covered with blood from head to foot fiom
a bullet through the shoulder, and was so carried
away bv the thought of a holiday as to be heedless
of the thousands of Turkish rifles potting away at
him.
Another chap was cleaning ammunition for the
machine-guns. Sand on the ammunition will cause
the gun to jamb. Well, this chap had dug a hole,
or rather scratched a hole, in the sand sufficient to
protect him from his head to waist; the lower part
of him, legs and latter end, he had taken great
pains to expose. There he was, then, patiently waiting
for what is known as a holiday wound. Much to
his disgust, and with the greatest contempt for the
Turk as a rifleshot, he came out unscratched.
The difference between one man and another is
wonderful. Some are not the least bit excited when
shot; others lose their block completely. The more
highly strung ones, I suppose. They are not conscious
at all of anything they do or say. One chap was
shot only a few feet away from me. At the time
I didn’t know where the bullet got him, and neither
did he, but it turned out afterwards it was through
the fleshy part of the thigh. Well, he made an awful
fuss, crying out for “Stretcher-bearer” at the top
of his voice, even after the bearers had reached him.
When asked where he was hit he said he didn t know,
but he thought it was through the heart. I roared
with laughter. My head, though, as you can imagine,
was mighty close to the sand, and at the first roar
I took in a mouthful of Sinai. That settled it. I
never smiled again.
The bearers told him to buck up and try to drag
himself down the hill a bit, just enough to be safe
from bullets, and lie would then be taken away on
a stretcher. lie had crawled about five yards, with
about 10 groans to the yard, when a Turkish 18-
pound shell came whizzing over. The thing burst
just over his head, and the' shrapnel hummed all
round the place. Everyone ducked. The danger
past, we lifted our heads and looked around. There
was this lad with a bullet through liis heart and
unable to walk —there he was, one hundred and fifty
yards away, just disappearing in a cloud of dust.
He couldn’t walk, but, ’struth 1 he could run.
At all costs Victoria’s rising generation
of girls is to be taught how to bake in
dripping and fry in lard. A series of £l7O
studentships is being offered by the Educa-
tion Department, providing for three years’
maintenance, with education in the "domes-
tic arts” for that period. At the end of the
term the successful trainee will be offered
from £2 to £2 10s. a week for teaching other
girls how to pursue the daily round and
common task in as slick and economical a
manner as possible. It sounds as though the
Education Department meant business. Any-
thing that will result in lowering the per-
centage of nnderdones, overdones, scorches,
wrong-mixtures and pig-bueketings must lie
good for the nation. Yet much might be
accomplished without expense if the Depart-
ment issued a general request to mother to
let. Eileen and Emma have regular daily
practice at the cooking-stove, instead of con-
fining the kids’ domestic education to the
making of beds and the peeling of spuds.
Anybody can peel a spud after a few months’
practice.
CONVALESCING.
“Feeling any letter to-day, Uncle?"
“Yes, dear, heaps better!”
“ That’s lovely! Now you can come for a
walk, can't you—only as far as the
cemetery?”
From an old wig : —•
“Law is a jealous mistress,” a wise man wrote
long ago; and another wrote: “Concentration is the
secret of success.” These maxims are absolutely
true of the successful lawyer. To succeed he must
not only cut himself off from much intellectual
pleasure, and cease to acquire knowledge outside his
own profession, but jettison much of that which he
has already acquired. Such a man may not be aware
TOP BERTH PREFERRED.
“Put me on yer nover lap, gran'ma.”
that he has become ignorant of common facts outside
his profession ; but that is the position.
An eminent example of this was furnished b> the
late C. K. Pilcher, K.C. Letter perfect in Common
Law and its procedure, he had also cultivated the
art of cross-examination to a high degree of per-
fection. But above and before all he had attained
success in that most difficult of all the arts of the
advocate —the power of bringing out evidence virtually
as it stood in the brief. Only practising
lawyers can appreciate the height of his attainment
in this respect. On the other hand, he was notori-
ously deficient in general knowledge, even to a
greater extent than his rival Jack Want. It must
not be thought that these men were dunces; as a
matter of fact, they were more capable of learning
than most men. But their close application to
strictly legal matters simply crowded out much in-
formation which they had at one time possessed. The
remark of Hallam would justly apply to the case of
each, and to that of most successful lawyers; they
were “men whose intellects had been sharpened, but.
narrowed, by the study of the law.”
An episode in the career of these two eminent advo-
cates will illustrate this. They were on opposite
sides in an important libel action in a circuit town.
Pilcher was for the plaintiff; Want for the defend-
ant ; John Garland was with Want. The defendant
had described the plaintiff as “a Barabbas.” Pilcher,
in opening the case to the jury, stressed this fact.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “you all know who Barabbas
was. He was the impenitent thief crucified with the
Saviour!” This electrified Garland, well read in
Scripture, who told his chief to contradict it. Gar-
land procured a Court Bible, turned up St. Luke,
23rd chapter, 18th and 19th verses, and
handed the book to his leader. Then Want pro-
ceeded to floor his opponent in these terms: “Your
Honor, I hope you will not blame me for this in-
terruption, but my friend is wrong. He can get one
of the Court Bibles, the citation is Luke, chapter 23,
sections 18 and 19.” Even Jack’s strong voice was-
drowned in the laughter.
“Pint Pot” : Concerning that French advt.
of a battlefield for sale on the Somme, and
the owner’s confidence that he will be able to
give a title to land at present occupied by
the Hun trenches (B. 28/12/’l6). When
Hannibal was roving through Italy with an
army of Carthaginians about 218 8.c., and
knocking Hades out of every Roman general
who ventured to meet him in open battle, an
enterprising landowner sold by auction in the
Roman forum the paddock on which the in-
vading general’s headquarters were located.
Livy, who wrote a history of the disturbance
a couple of centuries later, reckons that Han-
nibal was more worried by the fact that the
land sold readily without any drop in prices
than by any other happening in the Roman
campaign against him. Perhaps the French
advertiser wants to give the Boche a similar
na'sty jar by showing him that his occupa-
tion of the territory in question is merely a
temporary incident.
The war lias changed many habits and
customs; but the world goes on killing itself
in the same old ways. There is hardly an,\
originality about suicides: year after ycai
they adopt the same methods in almost
exactly the same proportions. In Melbourne
last year 28 per cent, of those who had had
enough of it used firearms to finish it. In
the year before the war the all-Australian
average was 27 per cent. In the six years
before that it was 28 per cent. The poison-
ing method is a shade more popular always.
In Melbourne last year 30 per cent, adopted
it, the same as in the year before the war. Still
there is, oil the whole, a larger inclination
to do the thing painfully, and buy a shil-
ling’s worth of lysol; a few years ago
the average under this head was only about
25 per cent. Hanging, in spite of its draw-
backs, keeps a steadv third ; and the horribly
messy misuse of a razor is always a close
fourth.
From The Bulletin’s private chaplain:
The exact point at which Armageddon has been
fixed to occur by the students of ancient Hebrew
prophecy is not so far north of the recent desert
fighting as to preclude the possibility that Australia
may be there. Palestine as an ancient battle-ground
of tremendous world powers had two centres of dis-
turbance —one on the fringe of Edom, near where
the A.L.H. have recently been busy, and the other
in the broad valley between the lower spurs of the
Lebanon range and the hill country of Samaria. It
is at the latter place that Armageddon has long been
billed to appear—in fact, the final charges of the
righteous in breaking up for ever the forces of wrong
are scheduled to take place on the slopes of Mount
Carmel. It was just about here that Pharaoh in the
“Song of Pentaur” —an ancient and less democratic
version of the “Charge of the Light Brigade”—was
represented as pursuing the flying chiefs of the Keta
“like a griffin.” That song is supposed to be the
oldest in the world, and it is quite on the cards that
before the end of this year the very latest chant
may record the doings of Billjim on the same spot.
How far the big European armies of Gog and
Magog may be able to trek towards the valley
of Jezreel in time for the final testing is an open
question, but some battle fought on the old place
might quite easily be the biggest the Orient has ever
known. Firfiaka led a million men, Sayon had at
least half that number, and other old persons could
arrange stoush on an extensive scale; but Abdul’s
Waterloo may yet dwarf all the efforts of the past,
.lerusalem, on the road to Armageddon, has been
taken by an enemy at least 17 times; somebody
might soon have to record that it has been taken at
least 18, and that Australian field artillery was more
rapid and effective than the catapults of Titus in
breaking up the wall of Sion and the dust-heaps of
Moriah.
Incidental ly, the Camel Corps may cross the only
and original Tophet where “their worm dieth not
and their fire is not quenched.”
THE CUBE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This hate-born, curse-laden starvation war is bene-
fiting many sufferers. There have been many com-
plete cures of gout and corpulence owing to the
compulsory war diet, which is a godsend to the
weaklings who fail to follow their medical advisers.
—Professor It os in in German paper.
Take courage, brothers! This will cure the gout
And much reduce the weight of flesh that hung
About the wheezy Teuton, gross and stout,
Who wore his manhood heavily and swung
A pendant jowl ere the war-diet plain
Came to restore the girth of youth again.
Cease from your frightfulness! This great blockade,
That hems us closely in on every side,
In our best interests was surely made.
That which was once our shame is now our pride.
On sawdust bread we win to that slim ease
That the blue eye of beauty yet may please.
Beauty herself has lost her beefy look.
And, gorging less, grows sylph-like in her pose.
Xo more her corsage strains the brazen hook,
But concertina wrinkles mark her hose.
The war has done her good. Let us endure
Till empty tables work the linal cure.
Let the guns roar! Athletic, wiry, free,
We face unflinchingly the roasted dog ;
Dyspeptic tremors spread their wings and flee
Till we can eat oak bark and beechen log
If treated in a scientific way.
Keep the war going! Germany is gay!
Yes, gay! And in our souls a subtle change
Comes like the frolic wind of early spring.
The noise and tumult grow a little strange;
We do not want to fight, but dance and sing.
This silly game of war is out-of-date,
Our sawdust feeding frees our hearts of hate.
Praise God from whom all blessings softly flow,
For hunger that can cast all devils out.
Peace comes again; and with unbandaged toe
We stand relieved from shame as well as gout.
Licked? Kamerad, who wants to win
When he stops gormandising and grows thin?
X.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


a fine English
Hat by Garrick
Here is a model by Carrick—one of the
oldest hat makers in England
Carrick’s Hats always carry a pleasing
distinction, and have about them an
atmosphere of good taste that STAYS
with them to the end
The Bulletin
18/6
POST
FREE
This model has an unbound brim, 2:} inches wide. Shades: Light, Mid and Dark Grey
mixtures, also Fawn. Have one sent on approval. Please state size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED BRISBANE,
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
. Table d'hote luncheon 2/6
a la carte luncheon, from ! 1/6
Table d’hote dinner 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
“Dry Shave” : Someone in the South com-
plained in a recent Bulletin that early
pub-closing would mean an increased birth
rate in the “unofficial” class. Wliat about
daylight saving as a'check? One hour less
darkness will frequently, mean “time to go
home” just when Lothario thinks he is on
a good wicket.
HE DTDN’T KNOW FTHER.
GOERGE : “If you will only give me your con-
sent, I will go and ask your father right
away."
ETHEL: "Oh, don’t, George—go into camp
and have some training first.”
THE EXPRESSION CELESTIAL.
BILLJIM: “Say, Gustave, tell me something nice to sag to her.”
GUSTAVE: “Say ‘Vous etes ange!'"
BILLJIM ( doubtfully ): “But what does ‘ ange ’ mean?”
GUSTAVE: “Oh, he mean — er —‘blankee boneaire!’ ”
He had come out of the wilderness to
enlist and was wallowing not too happily in
the bath, before interviewing the doctor. “I
went as a kid to ’ave a cut at the bloomin’
Boers,” he said. “I get into one of these
baths every war!”
“E. 8.”: Five years ago
T was training at one of
the largest hospitals in
Melbourne. -- Tired of per-
petual tough mutton and
turnip, my inner woman
rejoiced sometimes in a
visit to a Collins-street
cafe. One day, when on
duty, I was busy dressing
a row of syphilitic ulcered
legs in the outdoor casualty
department. A “screen
case,” i.e., one to .be
dressed personally by the
medical officer, stepped
from behind the screen,
and, in leaving, asked me
for his readmission card.
Imagine how I felt when
I recognised the waiter who
had brought me my food
the previous night at my
favorite cafe. His record
showed that he had been
in attendance for some
time, and his condition was
down as badly syphilitic.
Since then I like a homely
chop better than any cafe
spread, and I feel I badlv
want to sterilise the world.
Doctors can do little until
there is universal autho-
rity to report and deal with
the horror. It is the
reigning evil in every hos-
pital ward. Epilepsy,
-blindness, deformities, in-
sanity and paralysis arid
numberless other avoid-
able diseases are the chil-
dren of this monster. And
none need be. Every word
said or written against
sheltering syphilis is a
blow struck for posterity.
“McNortli”: The answers to Woodrow
Wilson’s peace proposals call to mind tlie
cable sent by the Rev. James Chalmers, the
kindly old explorer-missionary who was
murdered in 1001 by the natiyes of Goari-
bari (Papua). Chalmers intended visiting
the then newly-started mission-stations at
the east end of Papua, and found himself
short of “trade.” So lie sent the following
cable to London headquarters from Cook-
town :—-
Send one gross tomahawks, one gross butcher's
knives. Inform l)r. Muirhead am going east to try
make friends between tribes. — Chalmers.
The weapons were, of course, needed as cur-
rency ;. but when the story leaked out many
dear old lady supporters of the Society con-
sidered that their beloved Tamate had most
dreadful notions of how to conduct a peace
campaign.
A sudden outburst of public fury in
Adelaide has made the Tramways Trust
restore the “late” cars. In the old horse-
tram days, when each co. had headquarters
in a suburb, one could leave town up till
1J:45. The electric cars, which have to get
back to a central depot, found 11.30 to 11.35
late enough, and afterwards made it 11.20
without much of a kick. Then the coal-
strike pared it down to 11; and it was a
recent announcement that this would go on
indefinitely that caused the riot. Hot weather
and daylight saving had come in together,
and residents in any inland suburb taking an
evening on the beach didn’t want to start
for home by daylight, with certainty of a
struggle with all the theatre people in the
last lap. A reversion to the not indecently
late 11.20 has lifted a little of the gloom
from the restaurant people, among others.
Supper-after-the-show was, becoming a lost
sin in Adelaide.
“L.S.”: Here is a problem in daylight
saving. The innovation is to continue until
March 25, when the clocks will be put back
an hour. Very well. Take the case of an
entailed estate. Twins are born to the
parents, the first at 2.30 a.m. on March 25,
and the second at 3.5 a.m. ' At 3 a.m. the
clocks are put back 60 minutes. Which is
the elder child? The one that is born at
what is 2.30 according to the law. or the
one that arrived at what is 2.5 also accord-
ing to the law?
* * . * *
"Mrs. Rye Dry”: Adelaide grows more
paradoxical every day. At Glenelg, during
the holiday season, one can, by permission
of the council, play the old game of ringing
the coins on the black velvet; or be taken
down by the circle trick ; or get fleeced by
the Cheap Jack. That is all on the sea-
beach. But on the same beach the decent
inhabitant is shooed off if he dares to appear
in a one-piece bathing costume! What loose
morals these authorities must have! They
can’t see any harm in spieling and robbery
by trick, but they can see a volume of it in
a naked arm and leg.
“Exile”: If heredity is intrinsic and such
things as pride, bravery and disease run
in the blood, so must patriotism or love of
country. Love of his country is hereditary
in a Scotchman, an Irishman, a Welshman
and an Englishman. That is, if lie does love
his country ; quite a lot of humans do not.
Hut whether a man does or does not love
the place where he was born, it is unthink-
able that an Irishman could ever regard
Australia with the loyalty he feels for Ire-
land. And I don’t believe a true Australian
can be made out of a man born any where
outside Australia. Love for your birthplace
and loyalty to an adopted fatherland which
has been good and kind to you are entirely
different emotions. George Reid told an
Anzac dinner-party in London: “I am full
of gratitude to the country which made
me.” Quite so; and so are A. Fisher, vv.
M. .Hughes, Kink O’Malley, W. 11. Irvine
and Joe Cook —all full of gratitude for Aus-
tralia, but not of love. It isn’t theirs.
Love of country is born in a man, and can-
not be implanted. The whole course of IV.
M. Hughes’s oratorical journey through Eng-
land and Wales showed lie was thinking of
the Welsh people and their bad living condi-
tions, and of the poor half-humans of the
East End of London. lie was neither think-
ing nor talking of the Australians who do not
live in the damnable environment of the
British poor. Hughes’s message jvas t°
people born in Great Britain, and his slogan
about the Welsh being the best proves him
a Welshman first, last and all the time —not
an Australian. We Australians are quite
different people from the British. The type
has digressed and changed under the influ-
ence of sun, climate and soil, and our ideals,
social and political, have accordingly
altered.
A CLEAR CASE.
HE: “On what grounds will you base your
suit for divorce?"
SHE: “ Incompatibility. I want a divorce
and Harold doesn’t .”
Loudon cremationists are seizing the psy-
chological moment to push business. War-
depletion of the labor market has caused such
a shortage of cabinet-makers and grave-
diggers that in some cases coffins are being
buried without lids, and in others bodies are
being deposited in shallow holes pending the
discovery of a pick-and-shoVel artist to dig
a common grave to put them in. Apart from
the crying indecency of it this state of things
is a menace to public health which will be-
come deadly when the summer arrives. The
cremationists urge that as their method is
cheap, quick, final and. before all things,
clean and sanitary it should be made com-
pulsory—during the war, at any rate.
HISTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The King, though young, was wondrous wise,
So for nine learned men he sent,
And said: “I have it in my mind
To know the hist’ry of mankind,
And all this wide world’s government,
Since government was first begun—
Go you away and write me one.”
A score of years were to elapse
Ere king and sages were to meet;
Then seven came (for two were dead) ;
The eldest spoke: “O King,” he said,
“The task you set us is complete;
Our caravan now. waits without,
It bears six hundred volumes stout.”
The King by now was middle-aged.
“To read six hundred volumes through,”
He told the sages, “is a thing
Which, though I’m an enlightened king,
I simply must decline to do.
So get ye back, 0 sages wise,
And cut it down to half the size.”
For fifteen years the wise mon worked,
Each night the midnight oil they burned;
Then on their faithful camel’s backs
They placed their history in packs,
And to the grey-haired king returned.
Three hundred volumes, crammed with lore,
The camels through the desert bore.
Of sages there were now but five;
Their grey beards past their girdles grew.
Alas, the King's fast-failing sight
Stopped him from reading in the night.
“Sages,” cried he, “away with you,
And into one stout volume see
If you can crowd your history.”
The years trudged on ; a caravan
One day across the desert came.
By now the King was old and frail,
llis hands were thin, his cheeks were pale,
His life was but a flick’ring flame.
One staggered to the royal bed—
The only sago who was not dead.
The hist’ry in a single book
He’d crammed, though ’twas a weighty one.
“My sight is gone beyond recall,”
The King wheezed, “so just tell me all
The races of the past have done.”
“Just this, 0 King,” the sage replied—
“ They lived, they Suffered, and they died!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
A CHANGE OF COMMAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
New York. —The International Episcopalian Con-
vention has decided not to omit the word “obey”
from the. marriage service.
The sweet old fraud remains ! So let it be !
Demurely sweet beneath her bridal white
She may be planning blackest treachery.
“I will not let my husband order me!
The dear old thing! Of course, he thinks it’s
right!
“I wonder if my Jim Oh, dear! how set
His face is now ! Why do men take alarm
At altar-rails? I’d like to kiss the pet!
I le’s frightened as a child ! Why should he fret
Because I’ve placed my fingers on his arm?”
“Love, honor and obey?” “I will!” she sighs,
And like a lily sways. Her so-called “lord"
Stands at attention with his mournful eyes
Fixed on a fading vision. He is wise,
And knows quite well his captain’s come aboard.
ws.w.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


THE RETREAT FROM MOSCOW.
NAP. HUGHES: “Let us push on, comrades. All is not lost. Nothing, indeed, is really lost so long as we can keep our hold on yonder point.”


WALKING THE CHALK-LINE.


SPLENDID REMEDY FO R
CHILDREN’S COUGHS.
Mothers all over Australia are making in
their own homes as good a remedy as money
can buy for Coughs, Colds, Whooping Cough
Croup, Influenza, Bronchitis and Sore
Throats. AH they do is buy from their
chemist or store 2s. worth of Mean’s Essence,
and add to it water and sweetening matter
enough to make up to one pint. Such a
quantity of ready-made cough mixtures,
would cost at least 12s. The beauty of the
Mean’s Essence mixture is that it contains
no paregoric, laudanum or other opium
drugs, which are apt to do untold harm to
young children. — Advt.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 2nd November, 1916.
Tenders for the Supply of Dynamos,
Switchboard, Motors, Balancers, and
Control Gear, for Power Plant for
Flinders Naval Base.
TENDERS will be received, subject to the
conditions of tendering, until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 31st January, 1917, for the
supply of Dynamos, Switchboard, Motors,
Balancers and Control Gear for Power Plant
for Flinders Naval Base.
Tender forms, specifications and any fur-
ther particulars may be obtained at the
Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; and at the Naval
Staff Offices, Brisbane; Edgecliff (Sydney) ;
Birkenhead (S.A.) ; Fremantle and Hobart.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
r ° H
K \s?c
M. The
Warn
t*
it.
/
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
VrCaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
ft
n
r&uno
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Of the 111 members of the first Common-
wealth Parliament only 29 are left in Fed-
eral politics: Senators Gould and Milieu
(N.SAV.), de I.argie and Pearce (W.A.),
Keating and O’Keefe (Tas.) and Stewart
i o. i ; Representatives Bamford, Higgs (for-
merly Senator), McDonald and Page (Q.),
Chanter, Chapman, Cook, Hughes, Bruce
Smith, Spence, Thomas and Watkins
(N.S.W.), Forrest, Fowler and Mahon
(W.A.), Glynn and Poynton (S.A.), Best
(formerly Senator), Manifold, Salmon and
Tudor (Vic.) and O’Malley (Tas.).
Dr. Frank Gellatly, financial editor of the
S. M. Herald, is not a great singer, but he
once taught the famous Caruso. The news-
paper man was on tour in the homeland of
the singer, and wandering in one of the
ancient buildings, of which an echo was a
special feature, he coo-eed. The noise at-
tracted Caruso, who was in the vicinity,
and he asked to be educated up to making
it. Probably Gellatly is the only male Aus-
tralian who has duettcd with the famous
tenor.
THE ADVANTAGE OF HAYING A
HOLE IN YOUR MEMORY.
THE MILD JONES: "Wotto, Smithy! ’Spose
you haven't forgotten that quid I lent
yer Jars' Satterdy night?"
THE TRUCULENT SMITHY ( emphatically ):
"Yes, I 'are. 'Aren't you?”
JONES AGAIN: “ Gripes , pairs; I—I—begin
to fink —I 'are."
. “Maldon”: The youngest Billzac? We
claim him. He hails from Tarrengower
(Vic.), and when he bluffed the examiners,
after running away from home, he was only
14. His dad- is a well known farmer, Jim
McConnel, who has several others at the
Front. The infant is still holding his end
up, and has beeli doing it since the brave days
of Gallipoli.
"M.K.” : lie youngest Billzac !B. 4/1/M7).
Jim Martin, of Glenferrie ( Vic.), who en-
listed in March, 1915, is my candidate for
the honor. He celebrated his fourteenth
birthday in January prior to emptying him-
self into khaki. After serving three months
in the trenches in Gallipoli he died of
enteric fever on hospital ship.
Brig.-General Elliott, recently invested
with a Russian order and made a C. 8., was
first “mentioned” for work in S’Africa. This
is his second war; yet in peace times he is
a singularly inoffensive Six-and-eightpence.
SHIRLAW, now
runnier) the business
of the late W. J.
Chidley.
He was a late starter.
Bo r n in Charlton
(V-ic.), his education
was only commenced
at the age of about IT,
when, a great, awk-
ward lout, he turned
up at Ballarat Col-
lege. As he was as
innocent as a baby lie
had to go through more
than the ordinary initi-
ation functions. No-
body ever dared to
fight Elliott, though.
Boys who ran up
against him at football
bounced back and gen-
erally fell in a heap.
But he had as much
determination as he
had strength, and with
about four bo y s’
capacity for work was
dux of the college
about three years after
getting there.
Tiie views of the dead Chidley are not
to be buried with him. The prophet had a
fair number of followers who consider that
the duty devolves upon them of propagating
his doctrines. Accordingly a handful of
them have banded together with the idea
of establishing a home and living according
to his teachings, including those regarding
the use of sparse clothes and a fruitarian
diet. There will be at least a dozen dis-
ciples, all discipling simultaneously and argu-
ing the point with the authorities in between
times. What the gospel of the defunct
prophet really needs to give it a lift is a
female Chid.
Gerald Kempe, who had been missing from
his home at Morgan (S.A.) for some days,
was found in the Murray near by. He was
one of Australia’s best-known lmshmen. an
unusual type, highly-strung, religious, with
a good literary style, something of a modern
Adam Lindsay Gordon. He knew the Mur-
ray and the Darling up and down as few
men do, starting as swagman, drover, dam-
sinker and boundary rider, working up to
be overseer and then manager of various
stations. Then he got down to the south-
east of S. Aus., buying lambs for export from
Adelaide, and when he became station-owner
on his own account he stuck to that State.
As a judge at shows he was known all over
Australia. He was 66 when the unexpected
end came. His reminiscences lately appear-
ing in Adelaide Register will probably be
made into a book.
Mrs. Keogh, a contractor’s wife, of Ken-
sington (Vic.), did what she could for Aus-
tralia the other day, and produced thre'e boys
and a girl at a birth. It wasn’t her fault
that there was vile weather next day and
two of the boys died —they were mere 31b.
mites. Knibbs will have to make a special
statistical table for this lady. It is years
and years since so fruitful a citizen was
placed on the records. Triplets are fairly
common —they average about a dozen sets
a year. Any prospective father, when he
is thinking over his chances, may reckon that
it is .about 300 to 1 against his being able
to claim remission of income tax for more
than one and 12,000 to 1 against a remis-
sion in respect of triplets.
Probably the oldest Australian native
with white skin is George Richard Tuckwell,
of Parramatta, who on January 10 was 92,
His parents were native-born: the grand-
father came to Botany Bay with the First
Fleet as quartermaster.
Ozanne, M.H.R., though he qualified on
Salisbury Plain for a commission, has failed
to stand a winter in England and is return-
ing to Australia.
The Friezlsnd (Q-) Sentinel announces
that W. M. Hughes will open a hairdresser’s
establishment opposite the local P.th This
seems to offer a chance for Kink O Malley
to get a cheap trim-up.
In a long list of insolvents published in
Melbourne the other day was a “putter-out.”
lie gave the reason of his broken and con-
trite condition as “want of remunerative
employment.” Another shocking effect of
six o’clock closing.
“Polstan”: Brig.-General J. K. Forsyth,
just returned after nearly 2i years’ service,
is one of the finest Light Horse commanders
that ever sat in a saddle. “Jacky,” as he is
affectionately termed by everyone, from the
junior trumpeter up when he isn’t looking,
left Australia in command of the First
Brigade of Light Horse ; and. though he was
later transferred to an infantry brigade, he
saw his Divisional Light Horse become the
best cavalry in Egypt, British or Austra-
lian.
Willie Xom, ex-market gardener and min-
ing investor of Bendigo, will think, twice
before he makes another of his periodical
visits to China. Instructions have come to
his fellow-countrymen to forward the equiva-
lent of a stiff ransom. Willie having been
captured by I Won’t Workers, Honorable
Understanders or some such predatory gang
and threatened, with the bastinado, followed
by decapitation, if the cash isn’t forthcoming.
Ah Sin hasn’t much to learn in the art of
exploiting the capitalist—or the worker
either, for that matter.
“0.K.”: The yarn (B. 11/1/T7) hitched
to the name of lately-retired Capt. Patrick,
the veteran Port Phillip mariner and weather
prophet, was originally told of Baracchi.
A Collingwood barber was said to have
built up a reputation for predicting rain
or sunshine ahead by reading the forecasts
of the Vic. Government Meteorologist and
reversing them to his customers when they
were getting a shave. Of course in Capt.
Patrick’s case, at any rate, it was mere leg-
pulling, for this ancient mariner has long
been recognised as the weather-wisest *skip-
per that ever was in Victorian waters. The
wonderfully well-preserved old salt has a
remarkable record apart from that. He
was master of a sailing vessel in 1854, and
for 60 consecutive years—barring only a
break of six months when he served as first
mate —-he w r as the skipper of a steamship.
Gunner Henry Erasmus Wren, who died
of wounds lately in Rouen, was the second
son of W. W. Wren, of Tarraganda
(N.S.W.). who managed for many years
baronet Tooth’s Kameruka Estate—one of
the show places of the South Coast. Henry
Wren, the gunner’s grandfather, was mate
of an old-time sailing-ship trading between
London and Sydney, and, marrying a
wealthy lady passenger, left sea and took
up Tarraganda and other properties in the
Bega district, where he was one of the earli-
est to settle. He was the first manager of
Kameruka after it passed from the old Two-
fold Bay Pastoral Co. to now-deceased R. L.
Tooth, who retained it. and the management
descended from him to his son. W. W.
Wren, till about 12 years ago.
NEIL ELLIOTT LEWIS, Treasurer of
Tasmania.
This year’s Victorian Rhodes scholar is
Patrick MacFarland Hamilton, of Ormond,
who early in 1915 left for Egypt with the
Army Meds. His study-mate in Ormond.
Lieut. N. 11. MacNeii. Highland Light
Infantry, was Vic.’s Rhodes scholar in
1914. He gained the Military Cross and
the names of three other Ormond men
appear on the same list —Keith Officer, Wil-
liam Hinman and Jack Buckland.
Mrs. Cornwallis West, the antique beauty
and faded Court favorite who has been the
central figure in another “scandal,” was at
once the particular pal of Mrs. Asquith and
the mother-in-law of
Prince Pless. late sec-
retary to the German
embassy in London.
The old lady amounted
to a link of social in-
ti uenee between Pots-
dam and London, and
she ought to have
been warned off the
War Office steps at
the outset of the
strafe. All the public
suspicion that applied
to Lord Haldane
ought to have applied
to the woman who
had entertained the
Kaiser at her castle
in North Wales and
married her daughter
to one of his official
spies. Yet she was
allowed to remain on
as a minor wire-
puller for two years
after her son-in-law’s
country had started
sharing the Hymn of
Hate.
MILFORD
McARTHUR.
editor Hoburt
DAILY POST.
Once a Brunswicker always a Bruns-
wicker. Ex-Councillor Voice died in the
bricky Melbourne suburb the other day after
breathing the local air for more than GO
years. Half the time he was a member of
Coburg Council, and for 20 years he repre-
sented it on the Metropolitan Board of
Works.
Died a few days ago, John Reynolds, of
St. Arnaud (Vic.), who fought in the
Crimea, Indian Mutiny and Maori Wars,
but of all his experiences remembered with
most satisfaction that for a while in the
Crimea scrap he was orderly bugler to
Florence Nightingale.
“Bob D.” : Apropos the German Trappists
in Australia and “Vigilnns’s” account of
their cattle-raising mission stations (B.
4/1/M7). A few months prior to the war
one of the missionaries was bequeathed £l2OO
per year by his parents in the Vaterland.
but decided’ that it wasn’t worth while giv-
ing up his job of “enlightening” poor old
Abo. to go home to Berlin after such a pal-
try sum.
Reade, the English “town planner,” is
getting an unexpectedly long engagement in
South A us., which has now handed him
another retaining fee till the end of June.
Adelaide itself was laid out by Light in a
way that does not leave much to add, but
the suburbs have had no intelligent effort
behind them; and the country towns —Mount
Gambier, Port Pirie, Murray Bridge and
others —-are unexpectedly sending in s.o.s.
signals. Iteade’s most pressing job of the
moment is to “plan” the 300 acres now used
as a military camp at Mitcham. It is to be
an extra-special “garden suburb” after the
war—all Adelaide suburbs are gardens more
or less—and in the coming installation of
deep drainage a little forethought now may
save much cash hereafter.
“Filkoil”: A curious mixture is Mick
Sawtell, who stood out from amongst his
I.WAV. “comrades” in Westralia who were
found guilty, sentenced to two years, and
immediately let out. He is an Emersonian
anarchist, hating politics, and despising the
craft-union secretary’s job, one of which he
slung up. At the trial he and Monty Miller,
84 years young, heaved chunks of heavy
philosophy at the jury, and the illiterate
police witnesses all admitted the superior
education and good living of the accused.
One Crown witness swore Sawtell made
some remark in Fremantle about burning a
shop down; then police and other evidence
proved that Sawtell was not in Fremantle
at the time. Sawtell’s friends wanted to
expose the character of the Crown evidence
by prosecuting for perjury; but Sawtell
wouldn’t think of it—that would be vindic-
tive. Sawtoll’s variety of anarchism differs
from Chummy Fleming’s, whose motto is,
“No God, no Master !” The first half finds
no favor with Sawtell, who bows his head
humbly before God, and with his friend
Leighton (ex-President of the Theosophieal
Society and lately suspended as a civil ser-
vant for his anti-conscription) discusses
Karma and the reincarnation.
THE REDEEMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw the Christ down from His Cross,
A tragic man, strong-limbed and tall,
But pale with suffering- and loss.
He leaned upon a broken wall.
And out across the warring world
He sent his gaze. Mis piercing eye
Beheld the towns to ruin hurled,
And saw the storm of death pass by.
Two thousand years it was since lirst
He offered to the race of men
His sovran boon. As one accurst
They nailed Him to the gibbet then;
And while they mocked Him for their mirth
He smiled, and from the hill of pain.
To all the hating tribes of earth
Held forth His wondrous gift again.
To-day the thorns were on His brow;
The grief was deeper than before.
Vrom ravaged field and city now
Arose the screams and reek of war.
The black smoke parted. Through the rift
God’s sun fell on the bloody lauds.
Christ wept. Still was the priceless gift
Enclasped within His wounded hands !
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.
A YEAR AFTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I loved her once—her lips were like the red
Hibiscus flower, whence honey-bees have fed.
Heigh ho ! how sweet they were, those vanished hours.
To-day? Well, other bees —and other flowers!
N.S.W.
F. S. BURNELL.


GOWING BROS.’ Summer Sale
Commencing'January 15 —Ending' February 10.
A FAIR
PRICE
t
s
a
o
©
*l.
JM
■
a
LESS
10
PER CENT
ITS A
BARGAIN
A FAIR PRICE is always assured of a purchase at Gowing Bros.’ Stores for Men ... it is
expressed in our often stated Business policy, “A BETTER QUALITY AT THE
SAME PRICE OR A LOWER PRICE FOR THE SAME OUALITY” ... it is the
basis of our bid for Trade.
But during Sale Time prices all round take a sudden drop, as the 10°/ o Sale Discount on all purchases for Cash so strikingly testifies.
And it is this certainty of a fair price and a genuine price redudlion that constitutes the special inducement to both City and Country
Men to order here while the sale lasts.
All over the State there are hundreds of men who, from past
experience of the advantages of a Sale-time purchase, will order
now or before the sale ends.
Those to whom it has not yet been demonstrated will want no
better illustration of the actual money saved than comparison of the
Usual with the Sale Prices of all ‘‘Austral” Sac Suits to Measure.
“Austral” Sac Suits to Measure
Less 10% During the Summer Sale.
Usual Price - 63/-, 70/=, 75/-, 84/-, 95 -, 105/-, £5/15/-, £6/15/-
Sale Price - 56/9, 63/=, 67/6, 75/6, 85/6, 94/6, £5/3/6, £6/1/6
484 to 490 GEORGE 5T
3 lo 17 RCUAL ARCAPE
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS SEND FOR PATTERNS.
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns, with tape measure and
forms for self measurement, free on request. And not only do we pay the carriage,
but guarantee customers absolute satisfaction with the fulfilment of all orders.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
Go wing Bros. Ltd.
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
484=490 GEORGE STREET, 3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
New Branch Shop at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
464 b 490 GEORGE 5T
3 fo 17 ROYAL ARCAPE


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monotael
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER. ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Ass’n
382 George Street, SYDNEY. Limited
Transacts Life, Endowment, Personal and General Accident Business.
Life Assurance Po icies contain Disability and Hospital Benefit Clauses.
Reliable and Capable Travelling and Local Agents required throughout the Commonwealth.
S. P. WOOD, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance,
shipping, merchant and general agency
peopl e: —
Written
Off Pre- To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. mises. serves, serves.
1904 . £64,802 5 p.e. = £50,000 — £14,802 £195,508
1905.. 85,892 6 ,, ,, 60,000 -- 25,892 221,400
1906.. 103,981 7 ,, ,, 70,000 — 33,98 i 255,381
1907.. 142,743 7 ., ,, 70,000 £30,000 42,743 298,124
1908.. 142,187 7 ,, ,, 70,000 30,000 42,187 340,311
(5 p.e. on prefs.)
1909.. 156,502 { = }3°,°0° 50,460 390,771
191(3.. 211,808 | pj.pf'' ” fg’ooo } 40,000 (i(5 > 808 457 - 579
1911.. | 8 LJ'- ” 25OO0} 4,1)000 ° 4 ’ 138 521 > 7L7
1912.. 207,438 j 8^ f °' ” 80)000 | 40,000 62,438 584,155
1913.. 213,8771 ” 25’000 } 50,000 58)377 642 > 532
1914.. 209,4831 ” 8 j?’°j*[l — 104,483 747,015
1915.. 206,6721 ” 25’ooo} 40,000 61 > 072 398 > (i87
1916.. 203,857 | pj.gf C ” 1 25000 } 25)000 r ’ 3 ’ 857 ' 862 > 644
Profits have steadily declined since 15)155;
but look at the increasing appetite of the
taxation ogre:—
English. Australasian. Total.
1913 .. £11,786 £12,614 £24,400
1914 .. 17,989 14,790 32,779
1915 .. 24,256 16,340 40,596
1916 . . 48,706 32,921 81,627
So the English collections have increased by
446 p.e., while at this end we are only col-
lecting 261 p.e. more than we did in 1913.
It illustrates again the deplorable weakness
of Australian politicians everywhere except
in the jaw and our tremendous capacity for
letting baby pav the bill.
The present Dalgety Co. dates back to
INN 4 and has an admirable record. It
started paying 8 p.e. in 1885; and though
almost every other • Australian concern
formed in that period, and especially if it
had anything to do with pastoral securities,
collapsed, this co. not only avoided recon-
struction, but paid a steady 8 p.e. all
through, maintaining it until the hard, dry
times of 1901. The co. has never treated
this pastoral-finance business as a gamble.
In the years of plenty it does not rush its
dividend to 20 p.e., to drop it to zero when
drought wipes out a few hundred thousand
sheep and turns many an advance into a
doubtful debt. Its shares are held very
largely in England ; but wherever they are
held it is as a conservative investment, and
security of principal is the first consid-
eration with the investor in that class.
Hence the importance which has plainly
been attached to the strengthening of the
reserves. And these are not ordinary reserves
either: of the formal fund of £600,000 as
at June 30 £250,000 was in war loan,
£165.000 in the co.’s London premises, and
the balance in high-class public securities.
Through thus holding its reserves liquid
what may be called its cash position is ex-
traordinarily strong. Apart from perpetual
debenture stock, the co. owes £2,621,174;
and it holds in cash and high-class public
securities £1,455,510, with well over
£1,100,000 in customers’ balances, etc. But
here are the figures:—
Liabilities.
1900. 1915. 1916.
Capital .. .. £1,000,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Perpetual 44 p.e... 620,000 509,749 509,749
„ 4" p.e... 1,643,210 1,753,391 1,753,391
Terminable 5 p.e. Nil 125,520 133,625
„ 4 p.e. 86,720 269,598 188,368
„ 3f p.e. 1,400 Nil Nil
„ 34 p.e. 21,145 Nil Nil
„ 3' p.e. 105,670 Nil Nil
Sundry creditors.. 1,759,320 2,314,392 2,299,181
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. .. 4,609,575. 5,295,645 5,246,707
Premises, etc. . . 277,189 625,428 555,641
Cash, deposits, etc. 196,763 1,521,264 1,620,510
Or put it this way. The total amount in
advances, stations, stock, wool, etc., and in
merchandise and Australian premises, is
approximately £4,600,000, and the funds
which are not withdrawable from the busi-
ness—capital, reserves and irredeemable
stock—are approximately £4,500,000. The
assets on which the co. might not be able
to realise quickly are thus practically all
represented by money which is at the co.’s
permanent disposal; and the floating debt
is represented almost wholly by cash, liquid
assets and quickly-convertible assets. The
position is thus one of extraordinary strength ;
and that is almost as good a thing for the
customer who gets accommodation from the
co. as for the shareholder. For it means
that, even if things don’t turn out exactly
as they were planned, the co. is in a posi-
tion to see its client through. Perhaps two
out of every three people who have failed
on the land in Australia have done so be-
cause they have accepted backing from
somebody who couldn’t see them through.
The co. has of late years developed the
trading and general agency end of the busi-
ness, and must now find it extremely profit-
able. On June 30 it held merchandise stock
valued at £300,755. A c-o. with such numer-
ous and diverse activities might easily fail
through ineffective supervision. Dalgety’s is
not at all likely to.
* * * *
The Bank of North Queensland: —
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1909.. 4311 sp.c.= 2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909.. 4641 5 „ ~2666 1975 23,7 / o
June, 1910.. 4717 5 ~,, 2668 5000 20,824
Dec., 1910.. 4838 5 „ ~2671 2167 22,991
June, 1911.. 4851 5 „ ~2671 4000 21,171
Dec., 1911.. 5383 6 „ ~3197 2186 23,30,
June. 1912.. 6062 6 „ ~3214 2848 26,205
Dec. 1912.. 7601 6 ~ ~4192 3409 29,614
June, 1913.. 8376 7 ~,,5445 2931 32,545
Dec., 1913.. 8406 7 „ ~5688 2/18 35,263
.1une,1914.. 8479 7 ~,,5688 2500 291 35,504
Deo., 1914.. 7496 6 ~ ~4875 2621 38,175
June, 1915.. 6462 6 ~,,4875 luB/ 39,/62
Dec., 1915.. 6274 6 ~,,4875 1399 41,161
June, 1916.. 6277 6 ~ ~4875 i>ooo 37,063
Dec., 1916.. 8262 6 „ ~4875 338/ 40,900
This will probably be the last time the
accounts of the Bank of North Queensland
will be post-mortemed. On January !> a
meeting of shareholders hold in Brisbane
unanimously adopted resolutions authorising
an amalgamation with the Itoyal of Queens-
land ; and there is likely to be the same
absence of opposition from the Itoyal share-
holders. The confirmatory meetings held and
other etceteras attended to, the Bank of
Queensland will put up its brass-plate; and
not only the shareholders but the staff and
customers of both of the old banks should
benefit. The assets of th« two are being
valued separately and on a conservative
basis, and shareholders in each bank will
receive £lO shares to represent the value of
the assets of their own institution. The
North Queensland’s present paid capital is
£162,500 and the reserves as shown above
£40,950; but of the latter sum £853 has been
earmarked to pay dividend for January.
Presumably it is intended to amalgamate as
from the end of that month; and something
will be gained in convenience to the staff
by shifting the balance away from December
81.
The little bank has made splendid progress
in the past 10 years, as this comparison
shows:—■
Dec., ’O6. June, ’l6. Dec., ’l6.
Deposits .. £474,250 £1,079,048 £1,063,585
Bills, etc. . . 40,203 70,695 88,537
Liquid assets . . 237,839 452,216 537,562
Advances . . 372,264 822,710 738,129
Premises . . 29,209 85,000 85,000
The total liabilities on December 31 were
£1,152,122 and the liquid assets represent
47 p.c. of all deposits and other debts —-a
strong position, indicating that the bank is
keeping something in reserve for contin-
gencies. As the Royal’s cash position is
also strong, customers will have an easy feel-
ing ; there ought to be a bit available for
them if they want more help and can pro-
duce the right security. From the creditors’
point of view nothing could be more satis-
factory than an overhaul of one bank’s
assets by another bank’s management: they
will know exactly what there is to show for
their deposits, etc. The figures in the pre-
sent accounts are of course prior to any
writing down that may be necessary; but
on book-values there are £823,129 of ad-
vances and other non-liquid assets to repre-
sent £614.560 of liabilities unrepresented, by
liquid assets; and the overhaul of securities
isn’t likely to make much difference to that
very comfortable margin.
* * * *
The N.S.W. State Bank, officially known
as the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.:
Savings Department.
Loss. Reserves.
June, 1906 £21,663 £16,175
Dec., 1906 4,484 11,691
Profit.
„ 1907 .. 2,945]
Accumulated interest on guarantee j-
deposit with Commonwealth, £5OlB .. J
19,654
Received on an adjustment of ac-
counts with the Treasury, £30.000 . . 49,654
Dec., 1908 9,115 58,769
„ 1909 . . . . 7,790 66,559
„ 1910 27,275 93,834
„ 1911 44,988 138,822
„ 1912.. .. .. .. 22,508 161,330
Loss.
„ 1913 6,011 155,319
Amalgamation with N.S.W. Savings
Bank—£36s,ooo of reserves and
£8778 balance of P. & L. account
absorbed .. . . • • ■ • 529,097
Profit.
June, 1914 .. . . .. .. 6,357 535,454
„ 1915 . . 50,798 586,252
N S.W. Savings Bank Officers’ Provident 1
Fund absorbed, £12,288 !
Compensation to discarded N.S.W. Savings j
Bank officers, £12,578 J
585,912
Profit.
June, 1916 20,8-29 606,741
Written off premises, £45,728 .. 561,013
In March, 1914, the rate of interest was
fixed at 31 p.c. for the first £2<X) and 3 p.c.
for the next £3OO, and this continued till
October 1,1915, when it was put up to 3* p.c.
all round. The srross earnings last year were
£1,273,079 as against £1,234,519 in the pre-
vious year; but the advance in the interest
allowed to depositors increased the outgoings
on that account from £1,022,540 to
£1,125,301. That's a fine year's performance
for a State’s Savings Bank —it has earned
for the people well over a million ; and pro-
bably half of the money on which this mil-
lion-odd was earned would not have been
employed at all had a savings bank not been
handy. Also, by the way, the fact that 34
millions or thereabouts earned for us
£1,125,000 at 3f p.c. might recall to us that
we have to pay the same solid lump of
interest when ue borrow 34 millions at 3f
P-«.
The Commonwealth is paying more than
4 3 p.c., while this Savings Bank is paying-
only 3j p.c., and there are depositors who
want to know why. The simple explanation
is that the Commonwealth does not under-
take to repay the principal in less than about
nine years, whereas the money deposited
with the Savings Bank may la* withdrawn
practically on demand. This means that
the Savings Bank must hold itself ready to
repay a large sum at any moment. The
person who doesn’t want to be able to draw
all his money at any moment should not
leave it all in the Savings Bank, lie can
get better interest by lending direct to
the Government. It does not follow that he
will not get the principal till 1925, supposing
he takes up War Loan, for instance. If
anything should happen to make it necessary
for him to realise, he can always sell his
bond or certificate or whatever it. may be.
The one thing to avoid is the closing of the
Savings Bank account. You don’t save faster
by buying war loan or other Government
stock. You only do that by retaining a
Savings Bank account and paying in the
larger interest earnings.
The bank has no capital; but, after
writing off the total amount spent on pre-
mises during the past year, it has now pro-
perty of its own worth, according to the
books, £561,013. This doesn’t look much to
protect an investment of over £30,000,000 ;
but the nature of the risk is everything. And
how small the risk is, so far as most of the
money is concerned, may be judged from
this:—
p.c. of
total.
Loans to N.S.W. Government ..£21,172,128 60.05
Loans to other Governments .. 109,848 .31
Loans to Advance Dept. .. .. 4,948,408 14.04
Municipal Loans .. .. 2,457,705 6.96
Fixed deposits, etc. . . . , 2,632,852 7.48
Mortgages .. .. .. 2,512,345 7.12
Bank premises .. .. .'. 590,000 1.67
Sundry debtors, cash, etc. .. 836,080 2.37
£35,259,361 100.00
Behind the reserve fund is, of course, the
State. Depositors are thus protected in
the most complete manner; and the
State is reasonably well protected by the
reserves. Apart from the loan to the Advance
Department, there are no more than about
three millions of ordinary commercial risks;
and £561,013 is good cover for that lot.
Advance Department.
Reserves.
Taken over from Advances to Settlers Board .. £14,319
Dec., Profit.
1907 . . £4,735 19,054
1908 . . 4,661 23,715
Losses of A. to S. Board written off, £17,132.. 6,583
1909 . . 5,390 11,973
Losses of A. to S. Board written off, £3933 .. 8,040
1910 . . 7,566 15,606
1911 .. 9,744 .. .. .. .. 25,350
1912 . . 10,334 35,684
1913 . . 13,019 415,703
Written off, £22 .. .. 48,681
June,
1914 .. 7,949 .. 56,630
Losses of A. to S. Board written Off, £lO6 . . 56,524
1915 . . 15,217 71,741
Written off, £822 .. .. 70,919
1916 . . 17,455 88,374
The Advance Department finances itself by
issuing debentures, which it sells almost
always to the Savings Department: the
debentures now outstanding total £4,975,050,
of which all but £120,050 worth is held by
the Savings Department. It seems a cum-
bersome and roundabout way of doing things,
this separation of the borrowing and lending
activities of the bank. But, really, this
Advance Department is an annexe. For-
merly there was an Advances to Settlers
Board, whose job was to hand out assistance
to settlers on mixed principles—to be philan-
thropic without losing money, if possible.
That it didn’t lose more is amazing. The
Advance Department took over this agency,
and has either got in or written off all but
£39,572 of the principal. It has itself made
loans of which £2,473,761 is outstanding.
Total £2,513,332, divided among 6045 bor-
rowers, giving them an average of £416 each.
From time to time Parliament has given
the Commissioners special jobs to do, author-
ising them to make advances mostly under
specific State guarantees. This table shows
the total advances under the separate head-
ings : —-
1915. 1916.
Advances to Settlers .. .. £2,514,150 £2,513,332
~ for Homes . . . . 215,085 492,115
„ on Closer Settlement
terms . . . . 1,546,734 1,819,708
„ on Irrigation Farms.. 13,403 19,767
Total . . £4,289,372 £4,844,922
An Act of 1913 authorised the Commissioners
to make an advance to any person who is
not the owner of a dwelling-house other than
that upon which the advance is required, to
erect, enlarge or purchase a dwelling or pay
off a mortgage. The loss on the branch so
far is £2701; last year’s profit was £5B. In
the two years’ operations 1369 borrowers
have been accommodated, and the arrears are
insignificant. The Closer Settlement loans
are made under an Act which authorises the
Government to purchase an estate for which
farm-buyers have been secured. The buyers
pay a deposit of 51 p.c.; the Government
advances the balance of the purchase money.
As this is obviously a risky proceeding,
though the Government valuers have to
approve of the price, the Commissioners are
guaranteed against loss. The reserve fund,
provided out of profits, is a quite inadequate
£2633. Irrigation loans are made on lands
already mortgaged to the Irrigation Depart-
ment. and thus far there is a small accumu-
lated loss of £22(i. The State’s security in
this case also is doubtful.
* * * *
AlleN Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney) :
Reserves
To (including
He- Insurance
Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve).
May, ’O9. . £6389 10 p.c. = £3760 £2039 £5,346
Premiums on new shares 1876 7,221
Nov., ’09.. 5029 10 p.c. = 3760 1279 8,500
May, ’lO.. 5377 10 „ „ 3795 1582 10,082
Premiums on new shares 3125 13,207
Nov., ’lO.. 6605 10 p.c. = 4614 1991 15,198
May, ’}l.. 6306 10 „„ 5000 1306 16,504
Nov., ’ll.. 0522 10 „,, 5000 1522 18,026
Premiums on new shares 3125 21,151
Mar, ’l2. . 6561 10 p.c. = 6054 507 21,658
Nov., ’12.. 7743 10 „„ 6250 1493 23,151
May, ’13.. 7484 10 „„ 6250 1234 24,385
Nor., ’13.. 8318 10 „,, 6260 2008 26,453
Mav, ’14.. 8770 10 „„ 6771 2005 28,458
Nor., ’14.. 9729 10 „ „ 7500 2229 30,687
Mar, ’15.. 9239 10 „„ 7500 1739 32,426
Nor., ’15.. 8723 10 „ „ 7500 1223 33,649
May, ’lO.. 8614 10 ~ ~ 7500 1114 34,763
Nov., ’lO.. 7613 10 ~ ~ 7500 113 34,876
Run the eye down the first column starting
at November, T 4, and by the time you get
to the bottom you won’t be feeling too com-
fortable if you are in the timber trade. Rut
what else: could you expect? This country
was borrowing easy millions and flinging
them about, until it got to the same state
of mind as the partially-drunk who talks of
his rich relations and calls for a taxi when
lie knows (or will know next morning) that
he really can’t afford a tram. Timber men
have been getting any old price for some of
their stuff; and Allen Taylor’s have had as
good a chance as most people to reach the
best plums.
' In the days of big profits Allen Taylor
and his old partner and co-managing director
General Bob Anderson were wise not to
shove the dividend past 10 p.c. In the first
place it wasn’t well to invite nasty remarks
and probable competition; and, anyhow,
they knew that slack times would come pre-
sently, and there is little doubt that some
undisclosed profit was employed to write
down assets. This shows what has happened
in the past 10 years, apart from the growth
of the reserve fund :—*
Liabilities.
Nov., Nov., Nov., May, Nov.,
1906. 1910. 1915. 1916. 1916.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital . . 60,000 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Debts . . 9,597 704 32,254 30,431 ’ 33,255
Assets.
Country mills 3,825 11,480 53,363 60,714 57,359
Pyrmont
wharves,
mill, etc... 15,900 7,000 5,500 5,250 5,000
Vessels . . 18,050 24,160 18,750 17,006 19,550
Book debts,
etc. .. 25,517 53,506 48,721 53,270 54,155
Cash, etc... 1,010 4,443 41,974 29,126 24,095
Stotks . . 9,502 8,658 29,096 30,328 37,473
The reserve fund, invested outside the busi-
ness, has grown from £135 in 1906 to
£28,000 at present. In six years £50,000 of
capital has been got in and the liabilities'
are £32,551 more. Total of outside money
brought to the business, £82,551. During that
period there has been added to the reserve
fund investments £16,731, to special deposits
£lO,OOO, to other liquid and semi-liquid
assets another £9652, and to stocks approxi-
mately £28,000. That makes in round
figures £64,000 added to these assets; which
leaves £lB,OOO-odd of the outside money put
into other assets. That is to say, of the
£46,000 or so of money put into country
sawmills and tramways in the past six
years, all but £lB,OOO has been provided out
of profits. But if the future can be judged
by the past this paper will be surprised.
True, new markets may be opened up ; and
in this as in many other lines that co. will
show up best which can best adapt itself to
new conditions. The pieman who still goes


THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to
Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection by appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight years’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
35-39 HDNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 IS 4
Deduct Cash. Value .of the .
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year . . . . 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
/E ARE BOAMTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tl “ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
w. R. CAVE, General Manager,
‘-2-63 George Street. Sydney
The Australian General Electric Company, who
specialise in all classes of electrical mine machinery,
are ready to submit full information or quotations in
connection with engine-driven generators suitable for
mine operation. These generators represent the
latest developments and most advanced designs yet
offered in this class of apparatus, and possess the
inherent ability to successfully meet the most exact-
ing service requirements that modern mine applica-
tions demand. Communications with the above com-
pany, corner W entworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney; corner Queen and Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, will be promptly- dealt with.— Advt.
* * * *
“The Best that Money Can Buy" is a phrase truth-
fully applied to Adannix Booting, for no roofing with-
stands changes of temperature better than Adamax—
the roofing that means cooler homes in summer and
warmer ones in winter. The process of manufacture
thoroughly impregnates long-fibred felt with pure
hydro-carbon, then develops a surface on the roofing
which makes it resist the elements. It is also
cheaper than galvanised iron and costs less for
freight. It resists sulphuric acid and chemical
fumes, and is thus an ideal material for roof or floor
coverings on mining buildings. Call or send for
full particulars to William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vjc.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per' cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and, spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked, on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
When considering economy there can be no satis-
factory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe, the
ideal pressure pipe. Manufactured in all sizes, from
3in. to 14ft. in diameter. Send for illustrated cata-
logue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited.
Head Office: 57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to
all State Governments. Factories at Lane Cove
ltiver, N.S.W. ; Footseray, Vic.; Port Adelaide, S.A.
—Advt.
* * * *
Have You ax Idea worth- patenting ? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footseray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
* * * *
Eakth-iiandlino and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg k Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney :
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 <»
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 (T
£783,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. =s
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents anti Correspondents throughout the WorltL
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
•Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT.
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
(IT Cnstb'vppaT. Street. Sydney.
on thinking of hot pies in Hades will file
his schedule while the one who remembers
fans and ice-cream will make a fortune.
The Dubbo Co-operative Flour Milling
Co., Ltd. (Dubbo, N.S.W.) :
Written To Ee- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1907. . £7032 111 p.e.= £l3lO £1597 £4125 £10,301
1908.. 1020 74 „ „ 854 465 10,002
1909.. 458 5 „ „ 569 9,891
Loss.
1910.. 562 5 „ „ 569 8,760
1911.. 41 442 8,277
Profit.
1912.. 2557 74 p.c.= 854 1371 332 8,609
1913.. 802 5 „ „ 569 233 8,842
1914.. 1215 5 ~ ~ 569 646 9,488
1915.. 140 Nil 140 9,628
1916.. 2236 lOp.c. = 1138 1098 10,726
It is an erratic business; but the reserves
are just where they were nine years ago and
an average of 54 p.c. dividend has been paid
meanwhile. Capital is £1389, and liabilities
on Sept. 30 were £4350. The assets, besides
premises and plant, include £7924 of book
debts and £3llO in stock, cash and sundries.
This co. is one of numerous little co-opera-
tive and semi-co-operative flour-milling con-
cerns which are doing a genuine service to
the country by keeping that valuable fer-
tiliser, the offal, in the district that pro-
duces it. They don’t, as a rule, make mil-
lions ; but they can generally on a run of
years show something better than bank
interest, and they occasionally make a punch.
Which is good for the district, for if there
were no local mill to benefit by a rise in
prices it would be a city miller or a foreign
buyer who would make the punch.
* * * *
At last there is an official kick against
Hughes’s “solution of the metal problem”
b.v the simple process of handing over the
small producers of Australia to the tender
mercies of a local unregulated ring. Geo-
logical-surveyor Andrews, the official adviser
of the N. S. Wales State Government, has
made a report on the whole subject. He
says:—
With the exception of the largest companies the
various producers are forced, for financial reasons,
to dispose of their copper ores or mattes to com-
panies that charge very high smelting rates. If the
smelting and converting plant be up to date and
thoroughly efficient, then there appears to be no
justification for the extremely high smelting rates
charged; if, on the other hand, the smelter be small,
badly equipped and insufficient, then there is an
injustice in compelling the producer .to refine his
produce locally when lie could secure much better
terms by exporting his ore, or matte, to bona-fide
consignees in England.
As a matter of fact, the position is not now
nearly so bad as it was at the outset.
Hughes’s “settlement” was, in fact, so dread-
ful (simply, of course, because the man
didn’t know two things about the business)
that the smelters varied their terms at
almost the first kick. Hut there is still
room for the inquiry for which the N. S.
Wales Government asks.
Newcastle shipped 3,295,555 tons of coal •
to Australian and foreign ports last year, or
980,937 tons less than in 1915. But the
mine output of coal shrank very little. Hos-
kins’s iron and steel works at Eskbank and
the B. IT. Prop, works at Newcastle pro-
duced 131,000 tons of iron and steel in six
months, and that consumed an enormous
quantity of coal and coke. Australia, by the
way, isn’t to get the whole of its own steel
output; for under an arrangement with the
Federal Government 50,000 tons of it in
various forms are to be shipped to Britain.
This early export of Australian steel to
Europe is one of the surprises of the war.
N. 8. Wales gold output for last year got •
down to 126,5290 z. crude, equal to 108,1450 z.
fine, worth £459,370, as compared with
162.0080 z. crude, worth £562,819 in 1915.
The year’s record is the poorest since 1889.
The war, by putting up the cost of stores,
etc., has no doubt had some effect; but it
can’t be blamed altogether. The shrinkage
started long before the Devil got loose:
1905.. £1,165,013 1911.. £769,353
1906.. 1,078,866 1912.. 702 129
1907.. 1,050,730 1913.. 635’703
1908.. 954,854 '1914.. 528,873
. 1909.. 869,546 1915.. 562,819
1910.. 802,211 1916.. 459,370
The old mining centre of Adelong
(N.S.W.) is fast becoming a has-been, rank-
ing with such one-timers as Sofala, Hill End
and other towns which once boasted large
populations. Sofala has dropped from 30
pubs and innumerable shanties to two grog-
dispensaries. Hill End, Tambaroora and
Box Ridge—other Turon River diggings—
have been among the decayed for years now.
Recently the Great Gibraltar Reefs (Adel-
ong) and the main dredge of the Adelong
Creek closed down, thus - driving another
nail in the almost-ready coffin of the oldest
quartz mining field of the Ala State.
* * * #
Westralia’s gold yield still tumbles. Last
year’s output (1,061,398 fine oz.) is down
148,7120 z. in quantity and £631,695 in value
compared with that for 1915. The figures
are now little more than half of what they
were a decade ago. New Minister for Mines
Robinson, like his predecessor Collier, is
eager to break the fall, and is convening a
conference of mine owners, mine employees,
leaseholders, dryblowers and others in March
to see what can be done. He also proposes
to ask Parliament to increase the mining
vote to £lOO,OOO a year, to be spent mainly
in trying to find new mines. Very little,
however, is likely to be accomplished with-
out the aid of outside capital; and as capital
is, for more reasons than one, a bit shy of
the West nowadays the outlook is not bril-
liant. Nearly every field showed substantial
decreases in production last year, and the
slump of Kalgoorlie was one of the worst.
Oroya Links shut down, and is in the hands
of tributors; Associated Northern is practi-
cally at an end; Perseverance and Associ-
ated have one foot each in the grave; Kal-
gurli doesn’t expect to last much longer;
South Kalgurli’s fate hangs on a balance;
and Lake View and Star declares that in-
creased price of stores and a big decrease in
values have knocked it all of a heap. Ivan-
hoe is still trying to extricate itself from the
tentacles of the porphyry octopus, and its
reserves are getting less every month.
Boulder’s star is waning. Golden Horse-
shoe, as mentioned in a recent Bulletin
par., is looking better than anything else on
the field, and will probably be paying divi-
dends when most of the others are but
memories.
Nearly every other centre in the West had
misfortunes and bereavements during the
year. Yilgarn lost the Corinthian, and saw
the Bullfinch put on its death-bed ; Laverton
mourned the Ida II; Sandstone buried the
Black Range; Meekatharra, the Queen of
the Hills and Commodore; and Murchison
witnessed the end of a number of wild cats.
Great hopes are entertained regarding the
liiverina South at Mulline, Leonora Blocks
at Leonora, and Clark, Robinson and Co.’s
sluicing venture at far-away, Nullagine. They
are promising, but have yet to prove them-
selves.
Edna May is still battling with ounce ore
and much water. Turner has been dropped
from the Board, and as he has, been always
opposed to buying the Deep Levels his re-
tirement is taken as an indication that the
present directors want to acquire the show.
Edna May Central is depending on the possi-
ble location of the new lode at 300 ft. level
and the striking of the continuation of the
new Consolidated lode at depth to justify pre-
sent market prices. Central is now well
managed, and the best of which the mine is
eauable is being got out of it. Still,
nothing but prospective value can warrant
the present market price of the stock. Ore
above 225 ft. level is too poor to justify the
opinion that £60,000 profit is in sight. How-
ever, prospects of cheerful developments at
depth are good. Edna Mav Consolidated
struck a new lode at 200 ft. about three
months ago, and the stock immediately re-
ceived public favor. Owing to alterations to.
the main shaft being necessary, no further
work has since been done on the develop-
ment. If it responds favorably to driving
for even a short period the shares will
flutter, quite apart from actual value. On
present appearances the show is still far dis-
tant from regular dividends. The position
at Edna May Deeps is depressing. Funds
are low, and the sinking of main shaft can
only result in disclosing the shortening of
the reef with depth. The ore reserves above
the 485 ft. level are being depleted, while the
striking of heavy water with further shaft
sinking is almost certain. The end of Deeps
must be amalgamation with, or sale to, tin 1
Edna May Co. Battler has been decidedly
"squibbish,” but recently the reef widened
considerably, so a greater tonnage of ore
may be available.
Kite flying over the Edna-Deeps amalga-
mation isn’t finished yet. The latest yarn is
that out of the kindness of their hearts Edna
May directors are to give the Deeps 17,500
shares. Of these 15,000 are to be shed
among Deeps shareholders and 2500 among
the doleful group that took up that co.’s
£lO,OOO issue of debentures. On what is
known of the Deeps there could not be
other than handshaking if the co. got off
a deal of the kind. On market prices the
15.000 shares would give back roughly
£60,000, and the 2500 shares to the deben-
ture crowd would refund their £lO.OOO.
What would Edna May get for that? The
Edna shoot, like all other bodies, is failing
in values at depth. Water troubles in the
Deeps aren’t over by a long way, and there
will be the cost of the equipment of a second
shaft if the myie be taken on. Of course,
it would be foolish not to get hold of the
Deeps if available at a price, but that figure
ought to be settleu on an outsider’s examina-
tion of the claim, and it is un to the direc-
tors of the Edna May in their capacity of
trustees to see to that. The kicking out of
Bob Turner makes careful action more than
ever necessary.
‘Mining operations at Yilgarn (W.A.)
during 1916 disclosed nothing very encour-
aging. A few working miners’ shows, nota-
bly the Queen May and Colleen Bawn,
enriched their owners a bit; but as for com-
pany-owned mines the results obtained did
not, with the exception of the Edna May,
justify the prices paid to vendors. At Mount
Jackson, the Butcher Bird in June last
yielded about £l5OO from 270 tons; but it
has done nothing since. Bullfinch Proprie-
tary, which was reported to have over a
million pounds’ worth of bullion in sight, has
paid an occasional dividend and is now
quietly expiring. It is now using as a
tailings area the Bullant, which was floated
in London for £200,000, and the ill-famed
Chaffinch is now a grazing area. Corinthian
North was tackled pluckily with adequate
capital under good management, and the out-
look was for a time promising. Refractory
ore was, however, too much even for the
skill that was brought to bear upon it, and
the result is that the mine and very fine
plant are now in the hands of thfe caretaker.
At Marvel Loch the Marvel Loch and Moun-
tain Queen petered out at comparatively
shallow depth, although the latter was pay-
ing expenses on 14s. ore; but as the 14s.
promised to become something nearer 45., the
co. called in the undertaker. The Great
.Victoria, which contains the biggest ore body
in Yilgarn, is struggling on without profit,
and no doubt the owners are now sorry they
did not accept the terms offered by the
Mountain Queen Co. for the property. The
Broncho Horseshoe, near the Great Victoria,
has also ample ore in sight which the owners
are anxious to sell. The Mararoa is look-
ing at the Broncho, but. whether negotiations
will get past that stage rests with the
Mararoa. Mount Rankin, near Southern
Ci'oss, has been floated, and this is the most
favorable development that has occurred in
connection with this property during a life
of 20 years.
* * * *
An official circular just to hand explains
why the Oroya Links handed the show over
to tributors. The question of shutting down
the mill and mine until prices of stores
become normal and labor more efficient was
discussed at the last annual meeting, but as
the general managers wanted to keep going
they were allowed to have their way. Diffi-
culties, however, became accentuated, and
finally the Board decided to cease operations
rather than deplete the ore reserves while
crushing at a loss. Several tributes have
since been let, and in order to increase its
income from royalties the co. has added a
ball mill, remodelled its plant, and in-
duced the tributors to have their sulphide
ore treated on the spot.
* * * #
The foreword about the Christmas crush-
ing at Cohen’s Long Tunnel, Wal-
halla (Vic.), was loz. per ton; the actual
was Sjoz. from 124 tons. Then the battery
took its second plunge, 100 tons being run
through from December 28 to January 0 for
Ooz. A little before the holidays shares were
os. They opened on January S with a very
willing seller, who biffed them to 9d. before
he had finished. The points that want clear-
ing up are why all this was thus, and why
wasn't the Christmas Eve yield announced?
The Argus bleated that “such incidents as
these are most unfortunate, for not only do
they cause loss to shareholders, but they
tend to discourage speculation in gold-
mining at a period when every effort is
needed to restore confidence in the industry.”
This mush would not have suited the old
Arc; us. It would have had a man up at
Valhalla to find out exactly why the stuff
hadn’t panned out to expectations.
The output of galena ore last half-year
from the little Magnet (Tas.) was 2045
tons; and although this looks small, remem-
ber that the nominal capital is only £5OOO in
2s. shares. While war prices last tlie directors
hope to hand out Is. per share (£2500) every
half-year. The 2045 tons of crudes produced
nine tons firsts and 400 tons silver-lead con-
centrates, which were sold to the Sulphide
Corporation (N.S.W.). The Magnet produces
a lead concentrate rich in silver, and isn’t
bothered with zinc. Reserves are 41,957
tons.
* * *
A Board of assessors is to be appointed
to value the assets of and allot the shares
to the 28 or 30 Bendigo mining companies
to be amalgamated. Promoter E. C. Dyason
will, of course, be chairman, and Sam
McGowan, an old Bendigo legal manager,
and James Willis, of the Bendigo Stock Ex-
change, will presumably represent the ex-
directors and the local sharebrokers. The
two Government officials will be A. 11.
Merrin, Chief Inspector of Mines, and ID
Herman, State Geologist. They may make
mistakes, for there is no professional mine-
appraiser in the bunch, apart from Dyason ;
but there will be no question at all" about
the honesty of the Board.
* * *
The Mount Molloy railway-purchase Bill
was thrown out by the Queensland Legisla-
tive Council, and at the moment the Chilla-
goe deal isn’t a certainty.
* * * *
Malaya Tin Corporation’s distant fields
are greener even than usual. At a recent
meeting in Sydney to hear his report. T- 11.
Martyn, a director, stated that “the whole of
Siberia from Vladivostock to the Ural Moun-
tains, a distance of over 4000 miles, is aurif-
erous country.” Martyn found 335. a yard
in gold and platinum for over 20 acres, and
probably for 100 acres more, and he' has
“arranged to take the ground up under a
title, paying only for certain surface
rig’hts, and there are no labor conditions.” i
Still he “recommends the Corporation to
spend nothing on development for the time
being, but to wait and watch results obtained
by other companies working in the vicinity'.”
More, he has secured leases over 3000 acres
and options over other 9000 acres of reefing
proposition—“reefs four to six feet wide, and
values of from 10 to 20 dwt.” Twelve
thousand acres along a reef sft. wide bulk-
ing 15dwt. looks a pretty good thing. Also,
the co. holds leases oyer 1120 acres and
options on 8900 acres on a quartz show with
a reef “up to 16ft. wide, and samples yielded
up to 9oz. Odwt. per ton.” Mr. Martyn
expects a return of £60,000 a year. Mow
soundly those 170 million Russians must
have been sleeping!
Westraliau Miners’ Federation is clamor-
ing for more drastic regulations to safeguard
life and limb. In 1913 there were 26 fatali-
ties, the same number in 1914, and 34 in
1915. Serious accidents in 1913 totalled
741, in 1914 831, and in 1915 923, showing
an increase of eight fatal and 182 serious
accidents in 1915 as compared with 1914.
The number of men employed in 1915 was
2444 less than 1913. Nearly every branch
of the union is finding difficulty in securing
sufficient money for accident pay, and unless
something is done by the Government or
mineowners, or both, to prevent a lot of what
is described as “easily preventable acci-
dents,”- the Federation says there will, be
trouble.


Cud RID
Neidsikks
Vintage 1906
CMfUM
HE PLUS ULTRA
I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED AN FRANCE.
jvLOSiC
ALLAN & CO.
rr. LTi-
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/t
Norwegian Cradle Song —vlvel
Meditation - - . Morel
A Resolve - - Kotlar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse » Eugene Blore
ALLAN S. 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
moet <sl chandon.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ fa. CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, l5, 1917.
My Dear Ahinx,—
One woman one fan was the rule at the
Donald Mackinnon recruiting meeting for
women held at the Town Ilall on Friday
afternoon on the crest of a heat wave. Miss
Annie Perry pluckily entered her voice in
a competition with the big organ ridden by
Mr. Truman, but was beaten from the post.
His Ex. and the two recruiting Macs —
Mackinnon and Macintyre—came ' along
from the Millions luncheon, and the Mayor
presided.
“Win the War” literature was scattered
as lavishly as leaves in an autumn gale.
These leaflets abjured you in assorted poster-
type to be non-party and non-political and
to win the war, and ended by asking you
with a big interrogation mark, “What can
you do?” Ah! that’s the rub. For whether
you put the emphasis on the can or the you
or the do, echo seems sadly to answer
What? You can collect for the new war
loan (after first raiding your own pocket) ;
you can join committees galore; and you
can urge your men friends to enlist. But
you must not do this with frowns and scorn-
ful words; you must lure them to the battle-
field with smiles and wiles. Be kind to
the shirker, for shirking is his only joy.
On the other hand, Professor Macintyre
says you may make life unbearable for the
recruiting committee that does not move
rapidly. So, thank goodness, there’s one way
you can still let off some of your suppressed
emotion.
Weird beings in medieval trappings rode
through the streets of Manly on Saturday
afternoon mounted on good honest nags that
looked as if their usual occupation was draw-
ing cartloads of bricks. Some of them felt
their position keenly. Joan of Arc or some
other female warrior in a rich array of tin-
ware held her mane of auburn locks firmly
in place with one hand and looked the fierce
sun as squarely in the eye as if she had come
of eagle ancestry.
On Saturday, the fourth day of the Car-
nival, Manly had decidedly the air of having
been up ail night, and didn’t care who knew
it. Four huge ferry-boats disgorged their
contents every hour on the long-suffering
strand. Queues waited at the entrances of
all the tuckshops and fixed baleful eyes upon
the feeders until the happy moment came
when they could shoulder their way in and
devastate the menu. Then flocks of “tick-
ler’s” came joyously forth. These are
feather dusters, with a bar sinister on their
scutcheon. With them the public counte-
nance is tittivated, dust and spiders and other
trifles being swept off. The correct attitude
when you are thus “tickled” by a perfect
stranger is to laugh genially and turn the
other cheek. It’s not good form to give out
sulphurous language and a nasty left. Still
it is sometimes done.
The proceeds of the carnival are to be
devoted to the Manly Cottage Hospital and
a motor ambulance. What becomes of the
profits oiled up by the Greek eating-house
proprietors is not so clear.
Now if you and I, dear, and all the other
intelligent women we know, were in Parlia-
ment instead of the male geniuses who are, I
know what would have happened. Somebody
would have proposed daylight saving. “Oh,
bother!” you would have said, being the
most intelligent of us all. “Let’s do some-
thing to save the food that is now wasted by
the ton.” Even before a brilliant Parlia-
ment saved our daylight for us I never saw
or heard of a case of it being taken to the
rubbish-tip ; but here we’ve had what they
call a “glut” of soft fruits, and, while
thousands of people haven’t been able to buy
plums and peaches, because they are too
dear in the shops, scores of cases have been
taken from the market and thrown into the
garbage destructor. Some day you and I
will meet and decide that, as a legislator,
man has proved himself a great success in
looking after the shadows, but that, as he is
a dead failure in attending to the substance,
we will take charge of that department our-
selves.
Writing from Berne to an Australian
cousin, a London woman tells how British
and Australian prisoners are being cared for
by the Red Cross in Germany :
I have seen both sides of the organisation and am
only amazed at the magnitude and the beneficence of
it all! Every day two furniture-vans arc loaded
with bread-parcels, over 4000 a day, and are sent
off by train. Every one of those parcels necessitates
labefi post-office number, Customs declaration and
card of identity; all the parcels have a p.c. en-
closed, on which the prisoner acknowledges receipt
and returns to the bureau. So. from here, there is
really a most correct record kept. At present we
are sending cheese to 550 Australians and nearly
800 more to other prisoners every week! Your
Australian Red Cross sends the funds to this bureau,
and it is most faithfully distributed. As much more
as they like to send, for food or clothing for then
men, will be carefully and truly administered.
Six scribes and a Pharisee recently
motored to Jenolan Caves as the guests of
the Publicity Department. In charge ol
the scribes —who were women —went Lewis
Deer, lately one of Sydney’s most popular
pressmen, now helping hand to the X. S.
Wales Premier. A driver of tremendous
qualifications personally conducted the big
automobile (which is not to be confounded
with a mere ear). The auto was the
Pharisee. Thanking, in soft purrs, its
maker that it was not as other cars, it ate
up mileage in ravenous gulps. It sped across
the landscape like buttered lightning. \\ hue
lesser petrol chaises pulled up to permit
their owners to bury their heads and then-
language in the works.
At the Caves the scribes did the stalag-
mites under the wing of guide \\ iburd. Aftei
81 years’ intimate acquaintance with Jenolan
—the fairy tale of Geology —this enthusiast
is able to remain calm when avalanches ot
adjectives fall from the lips of trip-
pers and go in fierce pursuit of torrents
of interjections. Owing to his persistent
efforts several caves —notably the new Orient
—have been discovered. A hole in the pale
chocolate wall, a hundred feet or so of
rope, and guide Wiburd, ten chances to
one. will find another home for Aladdin.
The State Governor will officially open the
Orient as soon as the new power plant is
fixed up for the lighting. Meanwhile, before
the vice-regal head gets an occasional burnt)
in the Indian and Egyptian fastnesses of this
wonderland, the scribes, with Railway Com-
missioner Milne and his gentle missus m
the party, lightly tossed together wisdom
concerning heliolites and felsitic dykes. Then
they gazed at the marvels of the Lord, 1 airy
visions of milk-white temples and miniature
jungles; ivory statuary set in grottoes of
white lace work ; cream and chocolate colon-
nades like the trimmings of some early
Pharaoh’s tomb; the translucent tints that
date from the hour when the Nile crocodiles
remote ancestor ran Cairo —all are piled
together under the great Egyptian dome.
The party, with some pre-Adamite mud on
its feet, crossed the Styx on its way back
to the blue sky and the 20th century. The
mathematician of the party solemnly re-
marked that they had negotiated 1472 steps,
each 9in. apart, and the company bolted for
the Caves House teapot.
Organist Lilian Frost, whose parental nest
is in the Speck, is over in Hobart through,
the dog days. About half the law of Sydney
has packed its horsehair switches and hurried
off to the same cool city, where the Gilbert
Lodge pair and the squatting Crace family
swell the total of the visitors for whom the
local inhabitant maketh daily supplication,
begging that they may be very fat.
Mrs. Lempriere, one of Melba’s sisters,
is over here from Melbourne.
Harold Hunt, the Melbourne beau whose
socks and trousseau were featured when
he married Eileen Collins a while ago, has
landed his bride, his baggage and himself
safely in Sydney. The ’moon included
U.S.A., where Wordy Wilson still chats of
peace.
Signed up for an early marriage, Ettie
Brownliill, daughter of the late .Tames
Brownhill, of the A.J.S. Bank, Goulburn
and Wagga, and Mrs. Brownhill, now of
Roseville, to John P. C. Dalton, son of the
late James Neale-Dalton, the Queen’s
School, Darlinghurst. The young man is a
nephew of that Canon Dalton of W indsor
Castle who says prayers for the King —he
used to be tbe lad’s tutor.
Surgeon Maitland’s wife, with her tw'o
boys and her sister, Miss Annie Cook, is
enjoying life at Badger River (via Cooma),
trout fishing, swimming and riding. Under
rows of Kentish cherry-trees which grow on
the banks of the river and are. at present
covered with red fruit, the holiday-makers
take their morning swim without fear of any
species of shark.
The Henry Harpers, from Melbourne,
removed themselves and their household over
to Rowral for the holidays, to stay with
Mrs. Donkin at her country camp. Young
Mrs. Arthur Harper—she who was Mar-
garet Barton, half-sister of the George Knox
lady, of Beaconsfield —had hopes of an early
voyage to Europe with her one ewe lamb,
but the new regulations may now alter these
ideas. Her husband. Lieut. Arthur, is the
youngest of Robert Harper’s male quartette.
He has been in France and khaki for some
time.
Mrs. Fred Taylor, once a Queensland
Yaldwyn, came back to Sydney last week
after some years in England. Her niece,
the beaming Beatrice Yaldwyn, is one of
the popular “Peg” people, and her daughter,
a dainty morsel, is also acting in America
at present with a comedy co. Mrs. Dudley
White is a sister of the returned Northerner.
Her London friends gave Dr. “Jimmy”
Graham’s widow a warm welcome when she
arrived, after her experience in the ill-fated
Arabia. This ex-Mayoress of Sydney is a
daughter of the Rev. H. Millard : she was o
nurse before she met her fate.
Fred Johns, of Adelaide Hansabd staff,
is coming over towards the end of Janu-
ary as secretary of a Royal Commis-
sion. He’s the “Who's Who” man, the
author of those handy volumes of boiled
biography which used to appear as "Notable
Australians” but now as "Fred Johns’s
Annual.” I looked through the latest volume
the other day and found that every notable
person is without stain or blemish. Not a
solitary one confesses to a crime or mis-
demeanor, or even a peccadillo. None of
them have slipped on the primrose path, or
committed a political blunder, played the
wag or kissed his neighbor’s wife. Isn't it
beautiful to think that in this fair land of
ours our public men, politicians, civil
servants, lawyers, poets, artists and the rest
have lived such good, regular, correct lives,
that all are immaculate?
St. Vincent’s Hospital nurses are giving
their annual At Home at the hospital on
Wednesday evening, the 31st. Every woman
is an actress, even if she be a nurse also,
and the St. Vincent’s staff are in close
rehearsal of a Pierrot show. Governor
Strickland and Lady Edeline are to be on
hand, and Saint Denis Meagher and W. A.
lioiman will be present. There will be much
music and progressive euchre, supper, and the
comforting knowledge that the financial re-
sults are to help the building funds of the
new Nurses’ Homes. There are 10 secretaries
—five nurses and five men—which seems a
huge staff to ask to keep a secret of any
sort.
On Saturday at the Burwood residence of
John Stinson, a great friend of the bride,
Amy, eldest daughter of that ex-political
Sydney Smith whom the irreverent Bul-
letin used to call “Pumpkin,” was married
to Ernest Kensett Bishop, son of the late
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Bishop, of Yamba, Sum-
mer Hill. The Rev. Scott West performed
the ceremony in his best Austral-Scotch.
The second- (or is it third-?) best man was
Arthur Stinson and the bridesmaid Gwen
Barnett. The bride wore a simple but effec-
tive frock of silver-grey crepe de chine,
trimmed with silver, her large grey picture-
hat being lined with pale pink. The brides-
maid was in pink georgette. Among the
200 guests were Joseph Cook and Thomas
Waddell, who made speeches, of course.
Young Keith Wade, who went to the
Front from Sydney with the A.M.C., in-
tended to follow in the footsteps of his
father, Presbyterian parson Arthur Wade,
of St. Peter’s, North Sydney, but inter-
rupted his Arts course at Sydney Uni. to
go out with the stretchers. He was killed
the other week. Bruce, the remaining Wade
lad. was farming in South Aus. when the
trouble started. He is now somewhere in
the brown line. Also a Wade daughter is
married to a soldier, and his dad is Presby-
terian-shepherd Fraser, of Victoria.
Strollers on the Block these perspiring
days have been turning round for a second
look at the bland spectacled figure of a
Chinaman, garbed correctly as an Anglican
curate. His name is James Cheong, and
normally he helps parson Ernie Hughes at
Melbourne’s tony St. Peter’s, on Eastern
Hill. Cheong has an M.A. degree from Mel-
bourne University, and did a further course
at Oxford, where he was trained for the
Anglican priesthood at Cuddesdon Gollege—
quite the most exclusive of such seminaries.
He has acquired the characteristic bleat to
perfection. The reverend James is a full-
blooded Chinese, but was born in Victoria,
where his father, Cheok Cheong, has been
an Anglican lay missionary in Lilly Boulke-
stleet for half a century. He (the son. not
the father) is a “high” churchman —a shade
over 6ft. —and wears chasubles and the other
dreadful vestments about which Canon
Merveilleux Archdall used to orate at the
Sydney Synod ; yet when lie comes to Syd-
ney lie generally stays with the Archdall
family and has a friendly crack with the old
Canon, now retired, at Drummoyne. Just
now he is having a look at the Blue Moun-
tains and jenolan.
Miss Christine Spark was the founder of
the Girls’ Pioneer Club in Sydney. I forget
whether the Pioneers were Girls or the
Girls were descendants of Pioneers—at any
rate, a men’s club presently came along and
grabbed the title, or as much of it as it
could wear in its buttonhole. Then an
epidemic of matrimony swept over the Pio-
neer Girls and decimated their ranks, the
Club evaporated in the odor of orange blos-
som, and all the cosy corners in the King-
street rooms where it used to powder its
little Pioneer nose were devoted to commer-
cial pursuits of some other kind. Quite
recentlv Miss Spark herself caught the mat-
rimonial microbe, and married one Henry
Cardew, a philosopher of ancient lineage
who used to preside over a Metaphysical
Library in Moore-street or thereabouts. The
new firm is now located near George s River,
Campbelltown, where it tends orchards ana
chicken incubators.
An Australian in the C.S.A. picks up the
tracks of various people:—
The heroic Sarah Bernhardt is battling through the
States on another farewell tour. The frail old
lady opened at Pittsburg and showed her need of a
pound of flesh in a novelty impersonation of Shaks-
peare.’s Shyloek. Hilda Spong, the old Bland Holt
favorite who was last in Australia in “Passers-Bt,
has become an interpreter of polite middle-age. She
is expounding the superior spinster principles of
Lesbia Grantham in the New York production of
Shaw's “Getting Married.” The Queensland girl,
Irby Marshall (Mrs. Leonard Willey), was a misfit
in a misfire called “The Happy Ending ’ at New
York Astor. It is an allegorical play, full of
unwise saws and immoderate instances, and furnished
Irby with the rococo part of Queen Helene. Young
Dion Titheradge, who is doing well, figured promi-
nently in the Brady presentation of “The Whip” at
New York Manhattan. Ronald Byram, a somewhat
raw juvenile with Niblo in Australia, has been pla\-
ing in a lvlaw and Erlanger comedy, “Shirley Kaye,”
at Atlantic City. A few weeks back Lincoln Plumer-
was in the cast of “Buried Treasure” at Allantown
(Pa.), but the title didn't refer to Plumer. Mar-
garet Anglin, recently conspicuous in Somerset
Maugham's “Caroline” in New \ork, is following
the multitude into the movies. The Margaret
Anglin Picture Corporation lias been formed, and
her 100,000-dallah studio is to go up at Detroit.
Charles Waldron, who was everywoman’s darling in
“The Squaw Man,” is immersed in numerous activi-
ties. In addition to his footlight and movie work
h< is managing theatres at Concord, Laconia and
Franklin, New Hampshire. Evelyn Ncsbit, who was
something of a fillip to the box-office .just after the
Stanford White-Thaw unpleasantness, is now little
more than a fill-up in movie shrieks of the old
Unwritten Law order. Our old vaudeville acquaint-
ance Rudinoff is on the road with the popular
nuisance Eva .Tanguay; and Emilio Melville has
joined a Morosco co. at Los Angeles. Incidentally
motor-magnate Ford is again in the limelight. lie
has won innumerable crossheads in the press by
solemnly proposing pictureman Inee for the Nobel
peace prize. In Henry’s opinion luce deserves the
reward for his alleged services to humanity in pro-
ducing the screen-spectacle “Civilisation.”
Parson S. C. -T. Grime, who died at New-
castle the other day, had been assistant
priest at the Anglican cathedral in the coaly
city for 32 years, and minor canon since
1009. Of his four sons, three are now in
khaki, and the fourth recently returned to
Australia after losing an eye at Gallipoli.
Grime came from the Cold Country in 1873
to Maoriland, where he was ordained, and
he worked at Oamaru and Riverton < AI. 1..)
till he was appointed to Newcastle in 1884.
Oliver Hogue, formerly of S. M. Herald's
writing staff, “Trooper Bluegum” in between
arguments with the enemy in Egypt, and
aide at headquarters of Australia’s Light
Horse, sends a cheerful note to say that he
is “fit as a fiddle.” This son of ex-Minister
for Education “Jimmy” Hogue has been
recommended for the post of Australia’s
official war-correspondent in Pharaoh’s
ancient heritage, and although he wasn’t
looking for the job he won’t pass it if an
ultimatum is handed up to him.
From “Rosna” in London: —
The latest Australian to join the book-mongering
fraternity is Frances Fitzgerald, the writer of many
witty Bulletin yarns of a few years ago and a con-
tributor to “The Bulletin Story-book.” She has been
successfully journalising in London for some time,
but her book is good Australian, and is illustrated
by artist Laurie Tayler and published by the
British Australasian, London. Its name is “The
Children at Kangaroo Creek” and its address will
shortly be every properly-conducted bookshop and
library.
Our friends the Dutch don’t see why they
shouldn’t take the place of the German in
all-over-the-world trading. Their young men
are being encouraged to load_up with great
ambitions and go out to conquer the earth.
You remember J. H. Stewart, who organised
the Dutch Packet Co. in Australia? He left
Sydney early in the war intending to take
up arms for the Allies, but was called in
for home service in Holland. He has now —
having had experience with exchanges and
advances in India —set himself up as a
banker in Petrograd.
Journalist and camera-man T. J.
McMahon expects to see Sydney in the
autumn. He has been trying the climate in
the Torres Strait and Northern Territory,
attended by Yip, the black cocker-spaniel
who does everything but record his vote.
Amongst the photos, he sends this way
there’s one of a Darnley Island belle, with
her coiffure a la steam-roller, and an enchant-
ing view of the famous N.T. lagoon described
by Mrs. Gunn in “We of the Never Never.”
It’s carpeted with water-lilies —a lovely sight.
The N. S. Wales Health Society, which in
peace times used to have mild discussions on
drainage and similar public nuisances, is in
a backwash in these days of Red Crossing.
But it came out of its meditation to hand its
retiring hon. treasurer. Miss A. Drewe, a
handsome Christmas present.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Melbourne, Victoria, the
present seat of the Com-
monwealth Parliament,
ranks as the temporary
capital city of Australia.
Here, as elsewhere, Good-
year Tyres are being
increasingly adopted
through sheer merit alone.
Why Melbourne
Shows Increasing
Preference for Goodyears
w
DY
E
0
A
0
*
Qy
k
h
*
*
m
<1
A
£
*
*
*
❖
T
<a
fe
ran
~i*
ELIZABETH Sn
T*TE,LII OVKWF.
3aC(^ QO 9
v **O«IMV
«V3A
Without any hesitation whatever,
you must admit that the fast in-
creasing number of Goodyear users
kills the delusion that one tvre is
like another and worth no more.
If it were a volume based on a lower
price it would carry no conviction- —
but the first cost ot a
tyre is now more than
ever not the last de-
cision in estimating its
real mileage and service
value to the motorist.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE & RUBBER
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Head Office—233 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies in all Principal Cities.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Goodyear Tyres, Tubes, Belting, Hose Packing; etc., are now obtainable throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Melbourne —and Victoria too— like
other cities and States in Australia
and New Zealand, month after
month show increased preference
tor Goodvears —because they are
j J
o'ettino- service from them to a
o
greater proportion of value than
from any other.
Motorists in all States have bv now
realised from experi-
ence that Goodyear
claims are backed by
sterling Goodyear per-
formance —no extrava-
gant claims are made —
every promise is fulfilled.


Farmer's for Riding Wear
Parmer’s Riding Trousers and Breeches are cut by
Experts who thoroughly understand where the
necessary room is required, and at the same time
retaining the Perfection of Fit.
PR7S. Drab Canton Mole Riding Trousers, special value 12/6
Better quality 17/6
PR76. — Khaki Cotton Cord Riding Breeches, strapped knees,
laced or buttoned 16/6
PR77. Twillette Riding Breeches, drab shades, strapped
knees 18/6
UR7B. Calf Riding Boots, single soles, standard screwed 12/6
We pay. the carriage.
The Bulletin
Pitt, Market and
George Streets,
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
MARRIAGE.
HERBERT—PIRIE.—Jan. 6. 1917. at St.
Luke’s, Mosman, by Rev. F. W. Reeve,
Engineer-Lieutenant D. P. Herbert, B.Sc.,
8.E., of the Royal Australian Navy, eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. S. Herbert. Mosman,
to Jean Pirie, second daughter of the late
James Pirie and Mrs. Pirie. of Elgin,
Scotland. Scottish papers 'please copy.
BUCKLEY’S
For the
DAINTIEST
and
SMARTEST
BLOUSES
At the
KEENEST PRICES.
fc/
£
81811. As illustrated, a particularly dainty
White Voile Blouse, with modified Raglan yoke,
finely spokestitched vest effect, smart roll
collar, long sleeves, finished with the new
handkerchief cuffs.
Price 3/11
81812. ——Special-value line of fine White Mus-
lin Blouses, with shoulder yoke and sleeves
inlet with beading, new Sailor Collar, finished
with beading. Fastens down the front with
small crochet buttons.
Price 6/11
81813. A very smart, daintily-designed
White Lawn Blouse, prettily trimmed with
beading ; has roll collar edged with Guipure,
and long sleeves with plain shirt cuffs.
Price 9/11
81814. Useful Tussore Silk Shirt Blouse,
with groups of pin tucks half-way down the
front. Has verj' .smart roll collar, and fastens
down the front with Tussore shade Silk Crochet
Buttons.
Price 12/11
81815. An exceptionally dainty White Voile
Blouse with finely-embroidered front. The
shoulder yoke, armhole and cuffs are inlet with
very pretty beading finished with nice roll
collar of embroidered Organdie Muslin.
Price 13/6
We Specialise in Providing Out-size
Blouses that Fit and Give
Satisfaction. Write Us.
Melbourne’s Lowest
Prices —Always.
BUCKLEY S NUNN
LIMITED,
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Mei.bourne, January 15, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Charlie Fairbairns are off to England
to sanctify the marriage of Esther, the red-
headed, wealthy radical. After fracturing
hearts by the dozen or so she has capitulated
to Colonel Wheatley. D. 5.0., of the Argyll
Highlanders. Some time he Gent-Helped
for Governor Fuller.
The Maddens are off to the family man-
sion at Frankston. The old place stands on
the cliffs with a Masefield seaview. Por-
traits of the familv weddings are a feature
of the interior. There are groups at every
age back to the time when Queen Victoria
was a trial to Westminster. The Frankston
home used to be'gay in summer in the days
when dimpled daughter Ruby was the belle.
The beach below and the rocky path descend-
ing to it were then frequented by bathers
in wonderful French dresses which took
away the breath of the simple untutored
fisherfollc. During vice-regal holidays gentle-
men aides or ushers earned most of their
wages serving as bathing-wrap carriers or
towel bearers in this neighborhood.
Barrister Monty Cohen’s sou Harold is
nowadays a brigadier-general and has the
D.S.O. Before he went to the Front he
wrestled yvitli the vagaries of the law, but
found time to marry Freda, daughter of
solicitor Pirani.
Fred Lee, the secretary of the Land
Settlements Board, has signed up for active
service. He went to Duntroon, and from
there was drafted off with a quartermaster-
sergeant’s stripes. Ilis wife (the plump,
fair daughter of the late ex-I-Prime Minister
Allan McLean, of Maaaafra). remains in
Melbourne to look after the buds.
Australia pianist William Murdoch is
now in the Grenadier Guards. The clever, good-
looking lad’s way was strewn with payable
and unpayable engagements —which seem to
come to ns all. As. I write Murdoch is busy
instilling his helping of rhythm into the
Grenadiers’ band. Lately he lent a hand to
Beerbohm Tree’s daughter Viola at a con-
cert, and played some of Debussy’s works.
The Duchess of Rutland, Lady Diana Man-
ners and other gilt-edged folk forgot them-
selves so far as to applaud violently. So
our Willie may look upon himself as arrived.
Dr. Fitzliardinge, a son of the sporting
N. S. Wales District Court Judge, has gone
to the war. His practice is at Eden
(N.S.W.) mostly, and his locum tenens is
his very small wife. She was a Banana-
lander who studied medicine at the same
time as Fitzliardinge. Now she cuts about
with amazing pluck into very out-of-the-way,
rough places. One of her talked-of deeds
was to bring an injured man into Bega
from the wilds for special attention. He
was carried through the water of an angry
river at one stage of the journey.
Justice Higgins is an unhappy man these
days. The recent death of his soldier son
has added another rut to his already well-
creased brow. The loss of the boy was a
terrible blow, and its effect was woefully
increased by the fact that no details are
obtainable regarding the manner of the end.
Apparently Mervyn Higgins was just blown
out and no one noticed his extinction.
By the tragic death of the Frank Army-
tages’ 26-year-old son Stanley, who acci-
dentally shot himself whilst rabbiting on his
father’s Drysdale estate, practically the
whole of the vast Western District wool-
growing clan is in mourning. The young
man’s parents were first cousins, one being
the son of the late squatter Fred, the other
daughter of the late squatter Felix. It
was another instance of the vagaries of
fate that young Armytage should escape
German lead while fighting with the A.I.F.
to get it from his own gun. But the his-
tory of the Armytage clan abounds in sad
stories.
Cecil McAdam, who has been filling a
medical captain’s job at the St. Kilda-road
Military Hospital since his return from Fog-
land, is hurrying back to adorn himself with
a secopd suit of British khaki. The youth
prefers the Atkins army, he says. I wish I
knew why.
An Australian at Salisbury Camp (Eng-
land) sends me a growl that sounds like a
grandfather bear. “The two items that
annoy me most,” he says, “are the dialects
of the various Tommy and the overbearing,
over-manna/ted officah. Still, these are small
things to put up with. Another thorn-on-
the-rose is the patronising, be-sure-you-keep-
your-place attitude adopted by numbers of
those who help in the rest-rooms. There
are some really charming women
amongst , the workers, but—well, just
but. Some make you feel as if you were
in a charity school.” The essence of thou-
sands of casual Australian remarks is in
these complaints from the grouchy soldier-
boy at Salisbury Plain, and the feeling they
express is as strong and as stubbornly fixed
as the Druidieal monuments that attracted
globe-trotters to the cheerless plain for ages
before Billjim pitched his tent there.
Reg AYykeham (who, by the way, now
carries a sergeant’s stripes) is tenting with
Alaric Howitt. a Tooraketty youth, at Salis-
bury. They both sigh for sunny Australia,
particularly as they are being kept inactive
in England—for the winter probably. The
cold is so nippy, they scribble, that Aus-
tralian horseflesh cannot stand it, so Cana-
dian mounts have been provided. The Aus-
tralian gee-gees go down with pneumonia if
too much exposed to Dickens's Christmas
weather.
Pretty Miss “Ning" Tatchell fairly radi-
ates happiness these days. News is to hand
that her own Major Howard Sinclair has
gained the D.S.O.
Enid Whiting Waters is still in London
watching with admiring eyes, so she writes
to girl pals in Melbourne and Sydney, the
upward steps of her military husband, lie
has just been given an important job on
headquarters staff in France. Incidentally,
“so much knocking about and worry has
made me quite thin!”
From “Rosua” in London :
Margaret Macpherson, the Adelaide artist girl, has
some pictures decking the new English Art Club
show, which is the top-notch art scrimmage in this
village. The Morning * Post, in particular, threw
bouquets at her for her “excellent work.”
Lieut. G. A. Fairbairn, who goes Hun-chasing with
the Hussars, and is a son of the Logan Downs (Q.)
Fairbairns, has an appointment to marry Deene
Hastings, daughter of the lion. Osmund Hastings, of
Rugby.
Patricia Brown, daughter of Mrs. Alexander Brown,
of Canterbury (Vic.), has just been given away to a
Welsh medico, Dr. .bines, who is temporarily a war-
rior with the R.A.M.O.
Elizabeth Newhold, the little Victorian songstress,
has left her repertoire in Noo Yark and arrived in
this isle wifh an American twist to her tongue, after
two years with Uncle Sam. Her immediate job is
to see a wounded Anzac brother who is here in
hospital; but, later on, she will send for her reper-
toire and do some singing, Zeps., etc., permitting.
This year-in the haughty Western District
squattocracy have hopped off to Peter-
borough, their own special bit of seashore,
and the waves are bowing gracefully at the
condescension. The best wool-growing fami-
lies even mix freely with the ground-rollers,
surfing by day and two stepping by night,
and if delicate complexions turn brick-red
and noses are cracked at the turneu-up end,
why, that’s the sun’s fair share of the ex-
cursion.
Elsa, the elder of the John Grice goldeu-
liaired chicks, after three years’ hard going
as a nurse in Melbourne, is taking her experi-
ence to one of the military hospitals in Eng-
land.
Miss May Stewart, daughter of “Squire”
Stewart, of Mario, on the Snowy River, has
breathed fin interesting Yes to Harry Daw-
son, a young Englishman who is in Australia
in the interests of the British Imperial Oil
Co. Wedding-bells are booked for about
April.
John L., the youngest and plumpest of
the Fosbery family who live at The Cur-
ragh, Caulfield, has decided to commit matri-
mony with Dorothy Garnett, of Windsor.
John is a son of the late J. W. Fosbery,
who was once chairman of the Vic. Public
Service Board, and is a relative of Sydney’s
ex-Commissioner of Police. The young man,
something of an exquisite, helps Dalgety's
to keep the wolf three streets from the door.
Reggie, second hope of Trinity College
Warden Deeper, by his first wife —a daughter
of the late Wigram Allen, knight, of Sydney—-
has kicked-off in the new year with an
orange-blossom ceremony in the Fog. He was
helped by Cousin Primrose Allen, whose
dad, George Boyce Allen, married the pretty
Dundas Miss who fluttered in the best social
circles in the Ma State under the wing of
the late Admiral Fairfax’s lady. The
Keepers seem fond of the maternal relatives.
One daughter was wedded to Naval-Lieuten-
ant cousin Maxwell in Sydney a few years
back, and went to England with the brass-
buttoned bridegroom. Ilis mother was an
Allen.
Prescott, the electric signalling expert,
after having a busy time with Victorian
railways during the last two years, lately
knocked off for a honeymoon. His bride
is an Australian girl, a daughter of Alwyn
Valentine, a man of importance in Vic-
torian Railways. Miss Valentine was taking
an after-school stroll through Germany when
war swirled round her. However, she
escaped, and on the home trip met Prescott.
She was one of the first women war-workers
in Melbourne. With three other Toorak
College chums she went into the Bank of
N. S. Wales (Melbourne) to release soldier
men.
Little Mrs. Henry Cornish, who is pur-
sued by portrait-painters until life is just
one dashed thing after another, has dedi-
cated herself to war work. She is special-
ising on Braille for blind soldiers.
Mrs. W. IL L. Cooper, a Maorilander
visiting Melbourne, gave a jolly little lunch-
party at her Spring-street flat to immigrants
from the Shivery Islands who have induced
Australians to marry them. Lhe Coopers
intended merely to perch in Melbourne on
their way to England, but the industrious
submarine reminded them that there is o
place like home. They are going back at
the end of this month. Mr. Cooper was
much Interested in Repertory aiunrs here
and was one of the original Reps, in Maon-
land. Some of the fraternity lured him
into a part at The Playhouse m the Gor-
ringe Necklace. He did the job in an
ovster-grev suit, and his habit of clasping his
noble forehead with exquisitely manicured
hands moved the womenfolk to admnation.
William Pearson, formerly of Kilmany
Park in Gippsland, who has resigned his
seat in the Legislative Council, has been
"sitting” by proxy in the House for years,
just as he has been squatting by proxy in
Victoria while he roamed between the wilds
of London and a county residence in Eng-
land. Once he even had a walk-over m his
election at Gippsland while lie was an
absentee. The election was in 19L>, and
he did not return to he sworn in until l‘dL>.
Since then he has blessed the Old Men s
Home with about four visits. Some time,
ago this choice sample of legislator sold
Kilmany Park, near Sale, to the Govern-
ment for a tidy price. The daughter has
captured a highborn personage with awe-
some possibilities of inheritance in the title
business. A young giant of a son (he was
over six feet and broad withal at 16) showed
signs of being a good Australian; but lie
was shipped off ’Ome to have that sort of
nonsense knocked out of him at an English
school. To make doubly sure he was not
allowed to return to this vulgar country. He
was a mighty handsome boy with a mighty
ha ndsome a I lowa nee.
David Low’s sister Dorothy, the young
Muwilander who is obliging with a song or
two at the piano, inherited her voice from
her mother. In Dunedin Mrs. Low was a
fellow student with Philip Newbury. She
was a Miss Carlyle and sang in “Pinafore
with a big co, while it was in Porridgeville.
Philip Newburv was in the same cast. There
Mrs. Low’s career as a public singer ended.:
for the family didn’t look upon the stage
with reverence.
Theophilus Roberts, of Allan’s Chambers,
who teaches the Morell method of voice
production, is offering another of his
scholarships to free competition. It runs
for three years, and entries will be received
gratis until January 30. Previous training
is not necessary: the Roberts award goes to
the candidate possessing the best voice, tem-
perament and ability to become a singer.
In short, the candidate. Who is most likely
t o .be a star pupil in the future is the one
who, gains the scholarship.
“Miss Jennie Brenan has ceased —for a
while —to teach the young person to wave
a graceful limb, and is seeking a new sup-
ply of energy at Colombo. While she is
there she will stay at the home of Mrs.
Garrick, who was Miss Rose Musgrovo
before she married her discerning planter.
Adelaide’s donation :
Two ex- University students have been winning
their way upward in London. Dorothea Proud, ol
“Welfare Work” 'fame, has acquired the Doctor of
Social Science Degree, and Dr. .7. L.. Jona, who
belongs to Melbourne but was educated here, has
taken the Rogers Prize of £lOO from the London
University for an essay on some fever-research work
which he commenced at the Lister Institute. Ihe
prize is open to all persons whose names appear on
the United Kingdom medical registers, so its annexa-
tion is no small achievement.
Bombardier A. S. Patterson, a son of the late Dr.
Patterson, who for years was in iharge of the old
Mental Asylum on North Terrace, has won the
Military Medal. His brother is this State’s Italian
Consul.
F. W. Wheatley, of the Naval College, was in
town in the early part of the week on departmental
business. He is an old Prince Alfred College boy
and was at one time on the staff of the now-extinct
AVay College.
The Government was nothing if not thorough in
its wiping out of the Glen Osmond hill advertisement.
It decided at the same time that all such disfigure-
ments were to go, and declared that if advertise-
ments on public roads are not removed within a
month they will be destroyed. Do you think you
could get your Mr. Holman to follow such a good
example?
Saturday was the first anniversary of the Y.M.C.A.
Soldiers’ Club-house at Henley Beach, and in cele-
bration of the occasion a fete was uncorked by Lady
Galway. Since it was first opened the Club-house
has been extended and a large dormitory built, and a
couple of billiard-rooms have been added to its
attractions.
• Dr. Benliam isn’t to get the Is. for his broken
watch-glass from the Port Adelaide Corporation.
His letter was “received” and his account “returned.”
Seeing what the chronic condition of the Port roads
is, he may count himself lucky that he sustained no
more serious damage in motoring over them than a
fractured watch-face. I’ve had my face driven
through my hat several times.
Professor Bragg, who was for some years at the
Adelaide University, and whose wife is a daughter of
the late Charles Todd, has been awarded the Rom-
ford Medal by the Royal Society of Great Britain.
The trophy was for research work in physics.
Walter Howchin, lecturer on geology' and pakeon-
tology (a sort of winged giraffe, my dear) at the
University, has just indulged in his 72nd birthday.
He arrived here in ’BO, two years after being elected
a Fellow of the Geological Society of London, and
since then has taken- a keen interest in local geolo-
gical conditions and published some valuable
pamphlets concerning them. In 1914 he was awarded
by the Council of the Geological Society of London
part of the proceeds of the Lyell Geological Fund,
which, under the will of the late Sir Charles Lyell,
is used annually for the encouragement and advance-
ment of geological research. This was the first time
that the helping came to Australia. Mr. Howchin
was appointed to his position at the University in
1902.
Harry Allan’s daughter Mary, who ha:
shown a good deal of talent with the brush,
is busy transferring Miss Hunter Watts,
otherwise Mrs. Allan Wilkie, to canvas.
These feminine war economies are really
touching. Our dear Melbourne Club decided,
after an exciting meeting, to permit 50 more
members to enrol and till the new Collins-
street apartments. No sooner had the news
leaked out than the place hummed with
about 200 applications for membership. And
won’t there be wailing and teeth-gnashing
over the hundred-odd rejections and compul-
sory saving of golden guineas for entrance
fees and subscriptions ! >
It’s the silver bullet that does it, of
course, and that’s why it made such a hit
at the concert of tenor Boffard. Someone
suddenly called for an impromptu auction,
with Boffard as auctioneer. The goods were
a bird and a cage. It took 15 minutes to
raise £1: another 10 minutes to raise the
hid to 80s. and eventually a Frenchman
took pity and nodded £2.' Then we all
streamed out and snuggled into the 50 or
so motor-cars at the door.
Architect “Dicky" Ivlingender and his
missus (she was an a'Beekett, niece of the
judge) are going to have a gamble with the
Hun submarines. They intend afterwards
tackling a munition-worker’s job, or, rather,
two jobs, whilst only son Keith, fresh from
the Grammar, does his hit with the Anzac
gunnel's.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


The Bulletin
t
E
**
O
Q
rv
n
o
3;
G
t


P. (Si o.
Royal Mail Steamers
for England.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
No Visitors allowed. on Ship or on Wharf on Day of Sailing.
Passage Tickets are section ally interchangeable with the Orient
Company.
First Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
between Australian ports.
For Fares and all further particulars apply to
Tel., City 6321.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
Superintendent in Australia, 63 Pitt Street.
KingGe
66
n
rgelV
WHISKY
the TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“E. and 0.E.”: Yes; and you’ve all for-
gotten Dundreary Kelly, the Ararat remittance man
who grew asparagus whilst recovering from one
cheque and awaiting the next. Also Niblick Kelly,
the golfer who insisted on advertising that his
father ran the rabbit for Governor Brassey. Then
there was Lamb-tail Kelly, No. 8 Kelly (who used
this bit of a fence to persuade his wife to go to
mass), Tape-em Kelly (the Lobb’s Hole bullocky),
Wowser Kelly and Kelly himself. lie was the
boarder that closed up Purgatory.
**• * *
“Jay-Jay”: “S.A.” (B. 21/12/’l6) need
not travel to Central N.S.W. to find a vegetable fly-
catcher. One in the first class is the sundew plant,
which grows in thousands on low-lying damp spots
along the eastern Australian coast. The lower por-
tion of the plant consists of fine, radiating fibres
covered with a viscid juice. Inquisitive flies, mos-
quitoes and other disturbers of the peace, attracted
probably by the smell, settle on the plant and find
escape impossible. A less common insect-murderer
is a species of fungus growing also on these damp
spots. It has five or six scarlet petals similar to a .
cactus dahlia. In the centre is a wide tube into
which the insects disappear. Abo-ites who locate one
of these vegetables will make no mistake as to its
business. It “pongs” worse than an unwashed
nigger in the dog-days.
“Buntow”: Lumpy, ex-digger, drover and
carrier, now fencing contractor out West, took on a
carrying job on the Palmer at the time when the
abo. was numerous. On the coast he got together
a team of 16 head of mixed horses with a table-top
waggon, and set out for Maytown to deliver a bil-
liard-table at that calico township. All previous
carrying along the Range had been done by pack-
horse. The worst part of the road consisted of 36
miles of blazed track, which took nine weeks and
three days to do. At extra-steep pinches only a
block-and-tackle gear with a couple of hundred feet
of steel wire rope and the horses got “Morning
Star” through. But block and tackle, snatch block
and Murrumbidgee whaler’s manoeuvre, could not get
her to the summit of the spur. Going back to the
coast for more power meant the loss of too much
time and money. There were 200yds. to go to finish
the climb, and it was two days before Lumpy hit
on a plan. He rounded up a blacks’ camp and
collected all the bucks and gins who were willing
to pull for red handkerchiefs, which in those days
a bushman always carried to give to the blacks as
his introduction card. Altogether there must have
been between 200 and 300 abos. lifting on the cable,
getting purchase from tree to tree. It wasn’t long
before the “Morning Star” showed above the range,
and some days later she arrived in Maytown. As
six o’clock closing wasn’t in force, Maytown wet the
occasion in style.
* * # *
“D.F.”: About the size of Tasmanian
Black Brother (B. 28/12/’l6), now dead and gone.
Tasman’s crew did not see any natives, but from
the noises they heard and the niches cut in trees for
climbing they concluded “in these parts must be
men of no common stature.” But the early voyagers
had a fixed idea about monsters in these unknown
lands, and Tasman talks of the giants he saw
walking along the shore of the Three Kings, off
Maoriland. Marion du Fresne and his Frenchmen,
the next European visitors to Tasmania after Tas-
man, saw a little of the natives, one of whom they
killed in a fight, and describe them as of middle
height or a little below it; and that seems about
right. It is true that Kelly in the account of his
boat voyage speaks of various natives whom he met
on the west and north-west coasts as very tall men,
but most of the evidence is that, on the average,
the black fellows were not as tall as the white men.
* * * *
“OCX”: Re “Bill Bedsox” and bis tale of
the sheldrake that carried her family from the nest
in the tree to water (B. 14/12/’ 1G). He is not
the first that has given the public the result of
l.is imagination on this question. Yet the mode of
procedure is simplicity itself. The old bird takes
up a position on the ground at the butt and calls
to the youngsters, and they just drop out. The
'sadden stop doe 3 not affect them in the slightest.
I happened along when about half the brood wan
on the ground. Ma made off as fast as a broken
leg and a couple of broken wings would let her ; but
I had had that trick played on me before. Up aloft
about 30ft. were five of the little ones standing on
the edge of the nest in a great state of alarm. Then
one appeared to lose his footing and topple over,
and the rest followed in quick succession and made
off as soon as they landed, to hide in some grass till
Ma (by this time quite recovered from her bogus
breakages) came to collect them.
REPARTEE.
HE: “Ye’d letter dhrop some of your consate, Molly — that's the chap ice shpring from.”
SHE: “ Thrue, Flannigan; hut any one can see my ancisters shprung further than yours.”
TRADE COURTESIES.
THE COBBLER (who has had words with the butcher): “Hi! I'm short of sole leather
send us in a couple o' pound of your prime steak.”
“Biddy B.” : The best way to get rid of
bunny is digging out. Years ago Kildary (near
Temora, N.S.W.) was alive with the pest, but ex-
cavating did the trick completely. Carbon bisul-
phide is the next best thing, and after rain is the
best time to apply it. Pour a little on a wad of
cotton-waste or a piece of tightly-rolled bag and
poke down the burrow. Then throw a match in.
Next ram a piece of bag in, plug up with earth, find
heap the earth up above the entrance. Do the same
with any holes from which smoke issues. If any
are not smoking, throw in a piece of waste and
light it. Lighting the carbon is the quick way ; for
although the fumes thus last a lesser time they are
far stronger. -If the ground is crumbly, or at all
porous, wait for rain. Otherwise any time is suit-
able. Be sure to heap up the earth above the
entrance, because if bunny manages to get past the
piece of bag the extra dirt on top will smother him.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: The budgeriega rs of Queens-
land are more prolific than ever before. This pretty
little grass parrot is the most exquisitely-marked
bird in the Australian bush. The colors, blue, purple,
three shades of green, yellow and slate, are so beauti-
fully. blended that no artist could hope to copy
than. This season'every hollow limb in the West,
where they flourish, apparently harbors a nest of
young, each brood numbering from five to eight.
. But they are being captured in hundreds. After the
little creatures have attended to the domestic
arrangements for the season they gather - into enor-
mous flocks and feed on the downs. When disturbed,
a flock, viewed from a distance, resembles a cloud
rising- on the horizon.
“Silas Snell” : A Gippsland relation pro-
vides the facts. A man named Quine, of Emerald,
taking his ease under his own cherry tree on Sun-
day afternoon, fell asleep, and awoke after about
an hour in a condition of sweaty trepidation. He.
was not conscious of having dreamed, but his whole
being was shrinking with horror, and he lay for a
moment trying to master himself and arrive at
some idea of what his great trouble really was. He
felt a thrashing against his leg, but this was not
a definite perception for a space of some seconds.
Then he knew all. A brown snake had put its
bead into the hollow of the man’s hand as he slept,
the hand had closed on it with a convulsive grip,
and some instinct had made the sleeper aware of a
terrible danger. Quine says he was holding the
snake with all the power of his right hand, and his
grip never relaxed till he had trodden the enemy
into a limp thing with his heel.
The Censor hasn’t let it . through, but The
Bulletin has decided to chance it: —
Broadmeadows
Dec 23, 1916.
Editor Bulletin.
Sir, —Some News as to Horrible conditions in
Northern Territory' are filtering through press seems
to be Robbery waste. Incompetence and neglect seems
to be from Impudent Robbery to unfortunate BlacK
gins, strong Whisky and Black Gin. N.T. should
he garden of Eden officials keep it the Garden of
Bleeding the public, but allright. Real thing
supresed perhaps soon shifted (The Officials) to say
New Guinea as men having- Tropical experience. If
dont meet a a white man soon same thing same
robery and neglect, soon on another.- Wheres great
labor Unions, benefit fellow Worker and Is it not
their business a bit beleive in Unions; Not present
Half Mad Unionism. Would not buy union ticket
to wipe my nose with under present Union manage-
ment. Some of Age's Melb. statenet state of Botanical
Gardens a calamity Health Department a .Joke and
a Nuisance That in a semi Tropical climate Public
Works department wants careful overhaul State
Hotels payable and disgusting Black gins already
dealt with as damaged goods Great parliment.
Great Newspapers great leaders. Nice state of affairs.
Yours Etc., Hard-up, Esq.
“Cape Ilelles” : As a respite from milking
Spot' and Bluey, I harnessed a burr-infested moke
in a mud-caked jinker for a drive the other hot
Sunday, after a cloying midday meal of corned beef,
and chose a stretch of the old Melbourne-Sale road,
near Warragul, eventually reaching a cool, leafy
spot where one can always hear the beautiful call
of the bell-bird. Allowing the quad, to stand easy
in the shade of the roadside, and listening dreamily
to the “tink,” “tink” of the birds, a rattling of
chains obtruded on the holy Sabbath calm, and turn-
ing lazily toward the other side of the track, I
beheld the cow cocky’s, young hopeful, aged eight
or nine, partly clothed in trousers, shirt and boots,
hatless, and scorched tb a passionate brick color,
driving Prince and Captain attached to the family
harrow. As the local State school had gone into
vacation the preceding Friday I presumed that Bill-
jim, jun., had commenced his Christmas holidays.
“Hay Stack”: Re huge stacks at River-
ton and Gladstone (S.A.). Here are the measure-
ments of two at Georgetown, in the same State: One
is 181 yards long, by 8J yards wide, by 8i yards
high; the other, 174 yards long, by 8i yards wide,
by eight yards high. The height is reckoned after
allowing'for the roof. Work this out at 12 cub. yards
to the ton, and then stand off and admire the monu-
ments.
(Continued on paye 24.)
A NEW YEAR RIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the provisions of the Daylight Saving Act,
the clocks of the Commonwealth were put forward
one hour at 2 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
Ti e shoved the Old Year out upon
An ebbing tide of bottled beer,
And, as she settled.... and.... was gone,
AVe welcomed in the glad New Year.
We drank the last, lone bottle then
And vowed the usual New Year stuff—
Never to fill ’em up again
When once we’d really had enough.
“We’ve had enough hic-niglit,” said Smith,
And laughed in his loud, noisy way;
And, as he spoke the words, therewith
There came a sound of singing gay,
And Brown burst in, a jovial sou),
With something he could hardly drag,
First-footing with a swag of whole
Beer-bottles in a carpet-bag.
Then up spake Smith: “We gotter stay
Around, th’ Gov’mcnt shays, till two,
An’ push the bally clock on.... Shay,
Now, while we wait, what shall we do
With all this boshtcr beer? We’ll go” —
He grinned a wide Australian grin—
“An’ shift th’ ol’ clock hack, y’ know,
An’ slice hicnuzser New Year ini”
VICTORIA.
O. L.


DAVID JONES’ ORIENT
Two-Piece
TUSSORETTE SOIT
THE “ORIENT” TWO-
PIECE SUIT expresses
—in dependable quality
and moderate price—the
correct note for motoring,
golfing, shooting and all
sports, yet is equally suit-
able for town or business
wear.
Front of coat is exact
as illustration at side;
the back has yoke and
half band, also inverted
pleat, which gives free
and easy movement, and
is the means of coat
ress3uming its original
shape.
In Tussorette ,
Nan Shan Silk .
Grey Flannel. .
Gabardine . . .
...... 32/6
55/-
55/- and 65/-
65/- and 70/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
3216
DAVID JONES LTD.
CL
ft
&
~TI
O
71
cJO
£STP
Opp
G.P.0.,
Sydney
%
' .
■
. .
s
i _
;
LJ
*
•SL, .
j[ j *^j^2jpp
fIUMHSHi
' '-*" ts*}-. r— n jp**'
S- **T k /
v* m **h
Q f!N faßMßwaandrk
N* . vvi . Immmhml
* Q L 1 1
‘ S
£M|
•tV fO * mhJLm ym* 1 i 00M
■■MM BME'
v W*\J
S§ O r [2-4
*os.' fS WmI
F*\
i" B TI
Leviathan Tailoring Reduced
for “Square Deal”
The great “Square Deal” Sale
the event that has made The
Leviathan famous throughout
Australia —is now on. Thous-
ands of bargains in Men’s and
Boys’ Wear are offering in every
-Department. Ask to-day for the
“Square Deal” Catalog it’s
worth having.
3
Great lines of
SUMMER
SUITINGS
are being absolutely
“thrown out” at the
greatly reduced prices of
59,6, 82|6, 98,6.
WRITE FOR FREE PATTERNS,
Tape 8 Home Measurement Chart.
ORDER BY POST.
We Pay Carriage.
i
' I
Cl
■ T*t
Leviathan
Cornier Swans ton (SL Bourße Streets, MELBOURNE.
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/- each
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
4 Records 4
12=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5-each
COLUMBIA “No. 24” SUPPLEMENT.
PURPLE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Single-sided. Price 7s. 6d. each.
7126
( II Bacio (The Dream of Home) Madame Elsa Stralia, Sopiano.
[ Sung: in English.
7127
O Best in the Lord, from “Elijah” Madame Clara Butt, Contralto, with
| (Key “G”) Orchestra. Conducted by Sir Henry J. Wood.
LIGHT BLUE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Double-sided. Price 6s. each.
1,1054
\ Hungarian
( Hungarian
Dances. No. 5 (Brahms) Sir Henry J. Wood- and his Orchestra.
Dances. No. 6 (Brahms) ~ „ »
1,1063
I “Faust” Ballet Music No. 1 Sir Henry J. Wood and liis Orchestra.
I “Faust” Ballet Music No. 2
1,1055
i Blow, Blow thou Winter Wind Gervase Elwes, Tenor.
) (a) Now Sleeps the Crimson Petal, (h) Love’s Philosophy ~ ~ „
1i1056
( Beethoven Quartette in G. (Op. 18. No. 2) (a) Allegro.
, ~ ~ (b) Adagio—Allegro.
London String Quartet.
10-inch Double-sided. Price 4s. 3d.
D 1347
f Amourette (Hamisb MacCunn) ’Cello Solo. By W. H. Squire.
I Gavotte (Mehul) •• . » »
SPECIAL “STAR” LIGHT! BLUE.
12-inch Double-sided. Price os.
1,1065
( The Loving - To-to-lo Melville Gideon, Baritone.
(My Honolulu Girl » » »
DARK BLUE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Double-sided. Price ss. each.
618
( Underneath the Stars —Fox Trot Prince’s Grand Concert Band.
I Down Home in Tennessee—One Step
619
London Repertoire Orchestra.
i “The Bing Boys” Two Step
j “The Bing Boys are Here” Waltz
' Eleanore (S.
■ A Memory.
Coleridge-Taylor) Edgar Coyle, Baritone.
(The Kiss) ~ >. „
620
621
( Overture —L.a Gazza Tatlra (The Magpie Thief).
| Overture—Pique Dame.
10-inch Double-sided. Price 3s. each.
Regimental Band of H. M. Grenadier Guards.
2689
( Underneath the Stars The Taylor Trio.
| Because
(Violin, ’Cello and Piano).
2690
Miss Leslie Elliott. Entertainer at the Piano.
( Molly O’Connor . .
) On the Road to Ballysheen
2691
( MR. MANHATTAN: “Piccadilly” Frank Norris’’Comedian.
| “ ’Twas in September” ~ ~ ~
2693
f VERY GOOD EDDIE:
\ “Some Sort of Somebody” Duet: Elvira Marsh and Edgar Grey.
I “On the Shore at Le-Eei-Wi” Duet: Sheila Williams and Milton Stevens.
( Tommy Tad
’ King: Charles
Norman Allin, Bass.
2693
2691
f Darby and Joan Carrie Herwin, Contralto.
[ The Bells of Dee ,> •! »
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Dalting House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Svvanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


GGITTS
MNSEED OILMtA!
m
60 Wf / i ///n
MEGGITT LT. D MW %
PARRAMATTA M
FARMERS!
Peed your
MILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS,
HORSES,
POULTRY,
on one ration per
day of
MEGGITTS
Linseed Oil
Meal.
Full particulars write
Meggitt Ltd.
Parramatta,
New South Wales.
“The connoisseur is one who knows. The dilet-
tante is one who thinks he . knows.” Try Kartell's
and you’ll become a connoisseur; you will know then
what the best is ; and will know you know. When
it comes to ordering brandy again, -you will specify
KARTELL’S BRANDY,
and thus enjoy the luxury of flavor, the mental and
physical tonic, that Kartell's ensures. Never travel
without some Kartell’s. It is
THE BRANDY OF UNBEATEN QUALITY. [2
THE: GREAI BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT **
& RHEUMATIC PIERS.
Tlie famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Front A- Go.. 229 Strand. .London.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature :
Martin. Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
Actress Tells Secret
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,'
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment : “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum and a small box of Orlex Com-
pound. These ingredients can be bought at
any chemist’s at very little cost. Apply to
the hair twice a week until it becomes the
required shade. This will make a grey-
haired person look 20 years younger. _ It is
also fine to promote the growth of hair, and
relieves itching and dandruff.” — Advt. [1
ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
CHRISTIE?
SPECIALISE
TWO
LINES
sKllf
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
p.nD
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
The Bulletin
520 GEORGES 7 " SYDNEY
ZT flO/MTER S T NEWCASTLE
‘‘Nick Bottom”: Most Abo-liars will re-
member the big spicier that, in their boyhood’s days,
they called the triantelope. He is a frightful gour-
mand, and I am now fully convinced that he is Ger-
man. I called on him the other day during his
lunch-hour, and found him dining upon the hind-
quarters of a frog that was fully three times as big
as himself. llow he captured and killed his mutton
I cannot say, nor did I ask him when he commenced
his meal, but I kept him under observation for two
hours, and at the end of that time nothing remained
of froggie but the hind feet. Heaven only knows
where the old glutton put the tucker. I couldn't see
aiq' bulge in his coat of mail.
* * * *
“Lagaui-Namo”: The jade axes of the
east-coast Papuans are, I think, the natives’ greatest
treasures. They are handed down as heirlooms from
generation to generation, and several famous ones
have names and are of inestimable value in the eyes
of our cannibal brother. The worth of the commoner
blades depends on the thinness to which they have
been ground or worn, and their age. The toia, or
armshell, comes next. It is cut and ground from a
rare conical she'll found on I lie outer reef. Its
value varies according to its size: One that will fit.
only on a child's wrist is not worth a stick of
tobacco; but one that will slip right over a man’s
biceps is worth anything from £5 up. These are
worn by both males and females when dancing, and
are always included in the purchase of a bride. Boars'
tusks must be evenly curved, and at least three-
quarters of a circle to be of value. One completely
circular and big enough to go well up the arm
would be worth £2. There is one in the Solomon
Islands with three circles that the British Commis-
sioner offered £5O for in vain. Stone clubs are
rapidly disappearing. Their order of worth runs:
“Double Stars,” “Stars,” “pick-axe,” “pine-apple,”
“bald-headed” and “disc shaped.” They are made
of the hardest rocks procurable, chipped roughly
into shape to begin with, and then laboriously cut
and ground into form. The hole, sometimes three
and a half inches deep, for the wooden handle, was
made by alternately heating the spot by means of
a bamboo blowpipe, and then dropping cold water on
to decrepitate the stone away in flakes. Finally the
excavation would be smoothed with a length of stone
worked to and fro in it under water. Some stone
clubs would take years in the making. Sapi-sapi is
a crimson-edged shell, resembling a Sydney rock
oyster. It is made into two sizes of money. The
larger, consisting of 20 pieces each as big as a six-
pence, and usually worn attached by tortoiseshell
clips in the ears, is worth from 10s. to 155., accord-
ing to the redness of the shell and the perfection of
the workmanship. The smaller variety is comprised
of circular pieces one-eighth inch in diameter,
threaded on banana fibre. This runs about eighteen-
pence an inch. Dancing head-dresses, made of
cassowary feathers, parakeet plumage and birds of
paradise, vary in value from 10s. to £5. Dogs’ and
cus-cus tusks are strung together and worn as neck-
PUSH PLEASANTRIES.
MR. SOAP: “Motor accident?"
MISS JONES: “Blimey, no; stopped a
bottle.”
lets. Values vary according to the localities. In the
Purari, traders buy from 10 to 15 for a shilling.
Forty miles away, 30 dogs’ teeth will be exchangeable
for a pound’s worth of copra. The crescent-shaped
mother-o’-pearl breast ornament ( maili ) is made
from the “gold-lip” pearlshell of Torres Strait. A
good one will bring anything between 7s. 6d. and
15s. Tlie Papuan has innumerable other treasures,
such as arm-, leg- and necklets of plaited cane or
grasses; decorative head-bands of marsupial fur and
shells; carven or poker-worked bamboo pipes; lime
gourds; hair ornaments; drums; strings of small
cowrie shells and seed money ; various ochres and
pigments ; war and hunting trophies of human, croco-
dile, pig and fish skulls-; human or cassowary shank-
bone daggers ; crocodile and wallaby claws, etc.
THE CONSOLATIONS OF WAR.
THE OPTIMIST (sotto voce): “Anyway, it might he worse. They tell me it's HELL in
the trenches!”
“Bilbie”: Re the Bananaland record of
one flash of lightning that killed 49 head of cattle.
Here’s the N. S. Wales record for number of sheep
electrocuted by one flash. In 18S3 a drover lifted
12,000 wethers at Burrawang station, on the Lachlan
River, and moved for the Dumaresq River, travelling
up the Barwon. When nearing Collarendabri he
camped his flock on a ridge close to a telegraph
line. During the night a thunderstorm broke over
them, lightning struck the wire, wrecked a number
of posts and passed through the mob of frightened
jumbucks. Next morning showed 800 dead. Hence
“Liglitning Ridge.'’
* * * »
“Pick”: On a far-south (N.S.W.) coastal
dairy farm the owner of which is provident and loads
alternately two 300-ton brick silos as a standby
against drought, the bigger end of a team of draught
horses chucked the seven after eating a musty por-
tion that had been forked aside. Ensilage experts,
build upon the tlieory that green fodder, even if
damp, can be safely filled into a silo, and if there
are any of these scientists handy let them now ex-
plain what was amiss in the instance cited. The
ensilage was made from broadcast corn, and came
out of a clean paddock, so no one need rush in with
the idea that poisonous weeds had got a strafe in.
* * * *
“A.S.H.”: “Pick’s” (B. 7/12/’IG) cow-
worshippers of N. S. Wales are in luck’s way if they
can get rid of bracken-fern per medium of pigs.
The scheme does not work very successfully in South
Gippslar.d. I had a small paddock which was
covered with the fern-pest, so 1 turned it into a pig-
paddock, and though the grunters have occupied it
for five years there is still plenty of the vegetable
left.
* * * *
“Under Below”: Close shaves? A well-
known wharf-manager of Melbourne had the closest
of my experience. During the big shipping strike of
’9O he was turned on as a young clerk from the city
office to help unload pig-iron. Standing at the edge
, of the hatch on signalling duty, he had just sent a
sling of iron aloft when he heard a faint, far yell
and the rush of an angel’s wings. He staggered back
dazed with something' wet and warm blocking the
sight of one eye. A “pig” had fallen from mid-air,
severed the skin just above the eyqbrow and passed
on into the hold. He has worn a neat scar ever since.
“Fiat Lux” : Jibbing horses? I had one
which my mate cured by driving two-inch nails
through the breeching, the business ends towards
the cause of the worry. Ilis plan worked a cure
all right, but ever afterwards one man had to hold
that horse while another climbed into the sulky.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “Bill Bedsox” is talking
through his boots when he recommends the bush-
whacker to wrap up his dillybag of flour in stout
white cotton duck to protect it against the attack
of mice. I was poking in and out of the bills -
bongs of the far western Mulligan, Georgiana and
Lower Barcoo (Q.), when a huge moving mass of
mice was overlanding from north to south. They
were in millions. It was useless to hang the flour
bag to a limb with a saddle strap; the rodents
would hop up the tree, bite through the tie, and
the whole caboodle would be tucked under their
waistcoats before sunup. The rabbit-trappers and
poisoners in those outside places found the only way
to secure the damper, as well as the pollard for bait,
was to suspend it by a piece of wire from a limb
to within four feet of the ground. Even then the
mice would climb up and try to skate to the spoil
below, and an odd one now and again would lob on
the bag and eat his way in. In the migration men-
tioned above snakes were everywhere in the wake
of the procession, which disappeared towards the
south as mysteriously as it appeared in rhe north.
“McNorth”: Have a helping of Thursday
Island early in the morning. The Chow storekeepers
are noisily taking down their shutters and disfigur-
ing the tropic day with the swish of brooms and
the gabble of their barbarous tongue. A Cingalese
fisherman with a number of variously-lined and
-shaped fish strung on a stick calls “Flesh Pish!”
A Malay in charge of a waggon-load of cordials pulls
up in front of the pub. A young half-caste China-
man, with a basket on iiis arm, rides a horse along
the street. He is the butcher. .An adjacent maniac
starts a gramophone reproducing the voice, or what-
ever it is, of a Javanese female singing Malay opera.
Some mainland Binghis are hoisting sail on a cutter
in the harbor bound to Prince of Wales Island for
firewood. Prince of Wales is the largest dot in the
Strait. It contains 110 sq. miles, and has a popula-
tion of one. Malta has an area of 99 sq.. miles and
a population of 200,000. Perhaps within a few
decades another man or two will swell the total of
Prince of Wales’s population. If so I hope they'll be
white.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
GRACIE: “I sent out our wedding invitations yesterday, George. A hundred .”
GEORGE, THE PRACTICAL: “Yes, that should about cover exes."
“Carnamah”: I believed, like “Bad Aus-
tralian” (B. 30/11/’l6), that the eucalvpt was frost
proof. This year, however, at Wooroloo, about 30
miles from Perth, I safv red flowering gums, seven
or eight years old, that Had all the young leaves
burnt brown by an October frost. These trees had
been planted on the banks of a creek by an orchard-
ist, not for beauty, but because he was forced to,
as the water in many W.A. creeks beomes brackish
when the native timber is destroyed. I wonder if
this change is the cause of so many failures in
transplanting fresh-water fish ?
“Bavcoo”: Binghi’s bread-fruit plant,
nardoo, grows thick on the flooded areas of the
inland rivers and creeks. The foliage of the plant
resembles that of trefoil, only it clings closer to ihe
ground. Its leaves rapidly turn brown. The seeds
from which the blacks grind their flour are very
plentiful, larger than split peas, a plump oval in
shape, with a full kernel enclosed in a thin dark-brown
skin. A couple of gins can gather 10 or 12 pounds
in a day. The gins also run the flourmills, of which
the Central tribes have two varieties, made-out if
sandstone. The commoner consists of two stones of
oval shape, the main or stationary one being hollowed
out to contain the seed. The top or grinding stone
is the same as the nether one inverted. On this
the miller places both hands and works it half round
backwards and forwards till the seed is ground to
powder. When, this is completed the bottom c.i
hollow stone is moved rapidly with a circular motion
and the husks come to the top of the meal, and are
thence easily separated. The less-used mill is a
slab of stone, having a crevice scooped out and a
pestle, which is rapidly worked backwards and for-
wards along the groove, into which the seeds are
fed. Binghi thrives on the black, tight-grained
resultant damper, baked in the hot ashes. I don't
care for it myself.
* * * *
“M.M.” : “Verbal agreement be d —d,”
said the cook's off-sider. “These verbal agreements
ain't worth the paper they're written on."
HOPE FOR THE HUNGRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Brewers in London are advertising beer as a
food.’ I — Cable.
A sense of shame attaches to
The very act of drinking beer,
And many there are with us who
Shrink from the fierce teetotal sneer.
All those who would their thirst excuse
Are recommended: “Eat your boose!”
The pewter passes out of date,
And if you think .your pint a boon,
Well, make them serve it in a plate ;
Then you may eat it with a spoon.
Or, if you have no haste in life,
Expertly hoist it on a knife.
We’ll be great gourmets very soon—
The toff who picks a magnum tall ;
The workers squatting down at noon
With bottles full of lunch. For all
A five-course evening meal, and not
A single dry course in the lot!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


The Bulletin
Motorist
a
Motorist
: “Am I to use Australian Dunlops
for ever and EVER, because
Australia will suffer if I don’t r”
Oh no, Sir! But WHY not use
them till a tyre is made that equals
the DUNLOP for. service and
cost of running?”
: “Well, and when that day
comes —”
I don’t think the Dunlop Co. will
let it come, Sir.”
I UAJZ^h
In Three Styles
Grooved, Three Ribbed
and Rubber Non-Skid.
ALL LEADING GARAGES.
# * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
AH States & N.Z.


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
tv?
iJJ>
sr
k--,. 11*
c S^ ,t h»
s
?««0B
16
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
Delightfully
Soothing
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches at Sydney, N.S.W. & Wellington, N.Z.
The Inky Way.
“Hassan” : That vague but none the less
real quality, news value, depends a good
deal on the headlines. For instance, Wil-
helm and Ferdinand have a sausage together.
You can put it up " “Mouarchs lunch
together” in small pica, or you can star it
in blacks under “Enemy Kings Confer. ’
“Wilhelm Meets Ferdinand.” “Important
Questions Discussed.” Or a man is found
dead in a gutter. It may he hidden away
as a fill-up, it may have one small crosshead,
“Man found dead,” or it may have greatness
thrust upon it with three headlines begin-
ning “Is It Murder?” a favorite old Mel-
bourne Herald device. News is like
drapery: you can display it properly and
deck the shop window, or you can empty
it out in a jumble on the bargain counter.
And it is wonderful what dressing up will
do for a mediocre item.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
Chris Bennett, who died the •other day in his 65th
year, was the younger and last surviving son of the
late Samuel Bennett, a Cornishman and comp., who
came to Sydney in 1841 under an agreement with
Stevens and Stokes, then proprietors of the S. M.
Herald. He continued with Kemp and Fairfax
during their partnership, and then with John Fairfax,
and was for many years “Old John’s” foreman
printer.
In 1859, in partnership with William Hanson,
who had been Government Printer, Sam purchased
the Empire newspaper, which had been started by
Henry Parkes in 1850, and conducted it for several
years. In time he became sole proprietor of the
Empire, and while continuing that paper started the
Evening News (1867) and the Australian Town
and Country Journal (1870). He put his three
sons into the business —Alfred the eldest, in the
counting-house; Frank, an easy-going chap, generally
useful; and Chris in the machine-room, under uncle
Christopher. “Old Sam” had one daughter; she is
now the widow of Baronet J. Ilenniker Heaton, who
in his young days was country traveller and corres-
pondent for the T. and C. Journal.
The first office of the Evening News and T. and C.
was in Pitt-street, near King-street, and on the top
of the building is still to be seen Mr. Bennett’s
design in stone —Caxton and his printing press. The
editor of the T. and C. was an old Brisbane jour-
nalist, the original “Flaneur” here; he was cynical
and blunt. “Old Sam,” though a most kind-hearted
man, was a bit boorish. One day he was standing on
the pavement opposite the office, admiring the new
front, which had just been completed, when the
T. and C. editor came along. Said Sam: “Mr.
Wilkes, 1 want a piece of sculpture to place at the
top of the building. Can you suggest something?”
The editor was not in the best of humors. “Yes,
sir,” he snapped, “the Warwick Arms.” “The War-
wick Arms?” quoth Sam. “What are they?” “The
Bear and Ragged Staff.”
Old Sam Bennett died in June, 1878, at MundarraU
Towers, Waverley, the result of a hammer stroke on
his thumb, and was interred at Waverley, Sydney’s
fashionable coffin-resort.
* * * *
William A. Robyns, basso and musical
critic, who did splendid work on the Adel-
aide Mail, has joined the Advertiser and
other journals run by Bonython. Born at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) 40 years ago, Robyns
started as a chorister at St. John’s Church
of England, Sydney, at the age of 32. Syd-
ney citizens sent him to England to com-
plete his musical education, and Melba took
an interest in him. Since then he has sung
in every State of the Commonwealth and in
Maoriland in oratorio, classic and ballad
concerts and as a'vocal recitalist.
W. It. Steele, dead in Adelaide at close on
70, was a born journalist. The son of an
Anglican parson on the N. S. Wales South
Coast, be was a cattleman of the Snowy
River till printer’s ink got hold of him. In
W.A. he was editor of the Miner at Cool-
gardie and the Express at Geraldton, and in
Adelaide he was on the Standard, a weekly
which barracks for the liquor interest. lie
died in his office on Sunday afternoon—sud-
denly, from heart failure.
“Incas”: 11. 11. Marks, just dead in
London, revolutionised London financial
methods when he founded the Financiai.
News. Up till then there had been no free
criticism of loan-floating, company-forming
or share-mongering, and the promoters and
stockbrokers did not like Harry Marks for
sticking his nib into their bubbles. For a
long time he was reviled for telling the truth.
Of course it came quite- natural to accuse
him of using bis powerful journal for pri-
vate gain; but during numerous visits to
London to acclimatise wild cats of various
species in Throgmorton-street, I learnt that
the best stockbrokers and company promo-
ters did not believe wrong of him. Any-
how, bis paper cleansed London Stock
Exchange methods, because it never hesi-
tated to call a fraud a fraud. Marks bad
the priceless gift, enjoyed also by Harms-
worth, of “spotting” good financial journal-
ists. In Ellis T. Powell he had perhaps
the very best financial editor in London, not
excepting Palmer, of the Financial Times,
or Charles Duguid, of the Daily Mail.
Sydney and Arthur Murray, two pressmen
born in Maoriland. established the Financial
Times as a rival of the Financial News,
and they were exceptionally brilliant financial
journalists. For sane, destructive criticism
all these five pressmen were remarkable.
A. ,T. Wilson, of the Investor’s Review,
another great journalist with a vitriolic pen,
struck me as the mildest-mannered man
that ever scuttled a wild cat prospectus.
Once when luck left me in London, and stout
and hard-boiled eggs nourished me instead
of cold partridge and Johannesberger, I
wrote regularly for the Financial News
until Marks found out that I was also con-
tributing to the Financial Times and
Financier. Being a free lance there was
no breach of faith, yet my copy was thence-
forward declined. The satisfactory memory
remains to me that no other Australian
pressman ever wrote simultaneously for
three London daily financial papers, and it
seems certain nobody will again get iny
chance.
* * * *
Clarence Moody, the Adelaide journalist
who broke from the Register after 30
years (he started as a copy boy) to found
the week-end Mail, and got on to the rocks
‘chiefly through trying to run it as an after-
noon daily when the war started, has passed
over to the Sydney Sun.’ Moody, who was
at one time Adelaide’s best-known cricket
writer, is nowadays its best-known bowls
player, and holds the single-handed cham-
pionship.
“J.F.H.”: Passed out, at 78, W. H.
Mudford, the man who raised the London
Standard to the highest pinnacle of pros-
perity, and lived to see it blotted out by
bad luck and bad management combined. It
was in low water when he joined it in early
manhood, but be soon made it show an
annual profit of £300,000. In gratitude
Professor Johnstone by will made him editor
for life at a salary of £5OOO a year, which
was considered a prodigious remuneration in
the ’7o’s. Mudford carried editorial seclu-
siveness almost to a point of monomania;
leader-writers, reviewers and special corres-
pondents worked for years in the Standard
office without ever seeing his face. Even
Cabinet Ministers were denied admission to
his inner sanctum. He was like a “mys-
terious and awe-inspiring inhabitant of a
Forbidden City.” He sent his instructions
to his staff either verbally by one of his
few favored intimates or in notes that were
like barbed wire entanglements in their un-
decipherable illegibility. He retired in 1900,
and the luck of the paper left with him.
* * * *
“J.F.H.” (London) : Alfred Deakin has
held the record of fastest speaker we have
known of recent years; but some of the men
at the press-table believe that Massey of
Maoriland can beat him. I think they are
wrong. The special speedometer of the
Chronicle timed Massey and reports that
In* “discharges an average of from 180 to
200 words a minute.” Deakin in his prime
was quite equal to 250. Still 180 is hard
going. Asquith rarely reaches a hundred a
minute'; but bis sentences are models of
literary construction, always smooth and
polished, and .characterised by the use of
the perfectly-correct word. Massey does not
bother about literary style in his helter-
skelter. and his English is as loose as the
speed is reckless.
* * * *
Fluttered out at last, aged 40, the North-
West Post, “Tasmania’s pioneer provincial
newspaper.” Its headquarters were at
Devonport, where it grew from a tri-weekly
into a daily in an effort to keep pace with its
reptile contemporary. Increased cost of
paper and the demand of part of the staff
for more screw make up the gravedigger’s
story.
* Mr * *
C. J. Dennis is now in the wilds of
Tolangi, where he is hard at work on a new
hook in which Glugs will take the places of
Sentimental Blokes and tarts. The glugs
were introduced to Bulletin readers some
time ago. They were invented by “Den” to
amuse a boshter diner, aged six or there-
abouts, the daughter of a friend, when ill.
Those who know the glugs predict that they
will gain for their creator a reputation as a
sort of Australian Lewis Carroll.
* * * *
“Simon”: In days of journalists’ insti-
tutes. journalists’ associations, typo-
graphical societies, etc., let me record the
achievement of Jim Barry. Jim was a
big, good-natured navvy who, being out of
work, was casting round for something to
exercise his arm on. Bus Miller. Labor
M.L.A. for Monaro (N.S.W.), owned the
sometimes-inarticulate Adaminaby Adver-
tiser. He, too, was casting round —for a
lessee who would keep things going. They
met. Jim took the job on, and he and a
solitary comp, started on it next day. Soon
the comp, tired of the hush and threw it in ;
whereupon Jim, who had been a navvy till
a few months before, became his own jour-
nalists’ institute, comp., stone-hand, letter-
press machinist, delivery cart and bad debt
collector. He sent me several copies of the
’Tiser, and I should say that in its way
it was unrivalled.
“Mailed Fist” : Officers in the higher-paid
niches of the South Aus. Public Service are
indignant that Col. S. Price Weir, D. 5.0.,
should have been appointed Public Service
Commissioner at £BOO per annum. Before
he went to the war Weir was officer-in-
charge of survey stores and the Government
motor garage at a salary of £285. After
two years in Gallipoli, Egypt and -France
he came home, secured his discharge, and is
now appointed over the heads of many cap-
able officers to practically design the reorga-
nisation of the Public Service. Adelaide
people admit that the returned ■ soldier
should be well treated, but if military suc-
cess is going to win promotion for a man in
a civil job, they see that there are going to be
some queer results. For instance, a junior
solicitor who managed to beconffi a major
may be surprised to find himself on the
Supreme Court bench. And, of course,
immediately on Lieut. Denny’s return,
Vaughan will throw his brother out and
make room for the other lawyer-politician
as Attorney-Genera 1.
“Star”: Accordinar to a Harmsworth
cable, Ireland is now clamoring for Hughes
to come and settle her troubles, oblivious of
the fact that little Billy can't get out of his
own. Indeed, the one country that doesn’t
want Billy seems to be the one that has to
put up with him.
It is still the belief of the Vic. Council of
Churches that the totalisator “augments the
gambling craze, inculcates greed and imperils
the morals of youth.” The Council held a
special meeting the other day to consider
the matter, in view of the possibility that
the tote may miraculously be soon intro-
duced ’in Victoria, and duly arrived at its
foregone conclusion. It wasn’t a packed
meeting, in a literal sense; but it was a
“packed” one, all the same. The logical
parson with an open mind doesn’t attend
such gatherings, as a rule, because he knows
what he would get if he tried logic on his
brethren. As for the Council-members who
did attend, it is a lamentable, unarguable
fact that most of them sunported the succes-
sion of Vic. Administrations which made
such a poor fist at suppressing illicit totes
in the days when there was so much more
said about the evils of the machine than
there is in these years of thin odds and fat
bookmakers.
“Filkoil” from the West: —•
Can Jack Scaddan “come back”? He may; but
with difficulty. ’Tis said no man is a hero to his
valet; and —well, here’s the story of how Jack let
himself down. To push Attorney-General “Cocky”
Robinson out of the Canning seat meant pushing
Wilson front office, and ’midst the acclamations of
the whole Labor party Scaddan the Big Man resigned
from Ivanhoe-Brown Hill to do the shoving. A brass
band and drag were hired. Proudly the horses were
festooned with ribbons in front "of the Beaufort-
street Trades Hall, and all day the band blared its
message throughout the’ jerrymandered Canning elec-
torate. At night it got in front of Cocky Robinson’s
Victoria Park Town Hall meeting and loudly essayed
“Who Killed Cock Robin?” It then marched 100
yards further up to Scaddan’s meeting, playing
“See the Conquering Hero Comes.” Disgusted
Laborites rushed off to ferocious-jowled “Texas”
Green (the committee’s secretary) and wrathfully
asked of him who was responsible for this
foolery. “Texas” had been bottling up his own
feelings. Now they burst out. “It’s Jack’s sugges-
tion —not mine! He wanted it.”
“Glenhuntly”: We were taking a New
Year’s Day walk from Elwood to Brighton,
and it was on rounding a turn in the beach,
far enough from both places not to attract
a crowd, that the epic began. It opened
with a cry of: “My wife! My wife!”
Forty yards away a little man was standing
near the water’s edge waving wildly towards
the sea. Out from the shore a woman was
splashing strenuously. In a second Clay-
ton had thrown off his coat, kicked away his
sandshoes and dashed into the ocean. With
great presence of mind I threw away my
cigarette and went towards the man on the
beach, who was still shouting and gesticu-
lating. Refusing to lose my head, I assured
him that his wife’s life was safe in our
hands. “That man —that man is a scoun-
drel !” exclaimed the little chap excitedly,
and turning seaward he yelled to Clayton to
leave the lady alone. But by now Clayton
had reached the victim, who had clutched him
round the neck and was struggling violently.
Being a man of resource, he struck the
woman a blow which quietened her, and pro-
ceeded to swim with her to the beach, while
the distraught husband executed a war-dance
on the sand. When my heroic friend reached
shallow water and was wading in, dragging
behind him 14 stone of wet wife in a
flannel bathing-costume, the overwrought
husband ran into the water and sprang at
Clayton. There was a short, sharp strug-
gle and both fell. Feeling reluctantly com-
pelled to take a hand, I hauled the woman
to dryness and disentangled the combatants.
“If you wanted her to drown why the h —l
did you howl for her to be rescued?” de-
manded the angry Clayton. It was a hus-
band nearly choked with salt water who
informed him: “You are a scoundrel, sir.
I didn’t howl for anybody to rescue anybody.
I only called out to let you know that my
wife was in bathing, so that you would not
come this way!”
H. D. Young, M.L.A., of S. Aus., is a
grandson of Lady Charlotte Bacon (Byron’s
“lanthe”) and General Bacon, who was
Wellington’s youngest officer at Waterloo.
Lady Charlotte’s daughter, Mrs, C. B.
Young, is alive at Adelaide, but very old.
EXILED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Five hundred miles from light and life, from girls
and gas and beer,
Five hundred miles from all I love, and I am
' anchored here;
Afar from all the madding crowd, afar from rail or
road,
A humpy built of slabs and cracks my rustic, rude
abode;
The river runs a banker past the slieoaks on its
shore,
It makes me think of trains and trains and such-like
things that roar ;
Let others rave of country life, and of bucolic bliss.
Give me the parts that furnish drinks and glad-
some girls to Jciss.
Time was when I was gay and free, with time and
cash to burn, 1
And now upon this cursed flat I get but what 1
earn ;
The flat that’s ringed with sombre hills, that shut
the world away
And throw a dark, funereal pall around at close of
day—
A pall that fills my heart with gloom and makes
the world look black,
To think of all that once I had, and all that now
I lack ;
The careless jests, the blithesome nights, the women,
wine and song ;
Anjl now, no matter what the days, the nights are
twice as long.
I hate that river roaring by, in wild and warlike
mien ;
The nearest pub is five miles off; the river runs
between.
The flying driftwood scoffs at me, the foam-flecked
wavelets hiss,
For me no draught of Lethe’s spring, no few short
hours of bliss ;
The turgid yellow flood sweeps by upon its sea-
ward course, t
And only rabbits hear me curse the rains that feed
its source—
The rabbits, sheep and kangaroos, the mopoke and
the fox,
That share with me the joys of life among the
trees and rocks.
I hate the trees, I hate the winds that in their
branches sigh,
I hate the various brands of birds that mock me
from on high.
In short, I hate with general hate that fills my
soul with strife,
But worst of all I hate the ass who raves of country
life;
The city poet reeling forth his sentimental rot—
Give me his city billet and give him this peaceful
spot;
Give him the trees and sighing winds, the silly river’s
roar,
And let me skip to brighter parts and stay there
evermore.
N.S.W.
QUIDAM.


B.TH
B In
MAZDA
B.T.H
MAZDA
MAZDA
B.T.H
MAZDA
B.TH
o
BTH
MAZDA
/BTH'
I MAZDA
MAZDA
B.T.H
B.Th 1
MAZDA
B.TH
B.T.H.
MAZDA
MAZDA
MAZDA
3. ?
.vm
.ATJl-
uuu
L
B.T.H
u
mm
<r
\
X. P
-•tu. >
\
A
3
P 3
K
%
'Y
1/
*
\
VT
*»!
WJ
ir
a
y) j*' /
n
(
r
TTPk/
7.
r
ferf
li?
<h
v
L
Pit
m
r.
&
A
3
l§)
t®
6<<^
\r
v?
J&
V
o
gjK .
uru#
THE MAZDA WEDDING OF ALADDIN AND THE SULTAN’S DAUGHTER.
Aladdin Series
No. 12.
9
‘Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering: Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd.. Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold half-round waceiet
with Safety Chain, plain or engraved, 25/-, 30/-
£2, £2/10/-
15ct., £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-, £-4.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooeh,
set Pearls, or Pearls and Turquoise,
25/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, extra-heavy, richly en-
graved, 30/-. Isct., 50/-;
Plain, with Initials engraved,
same price.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
(luster Ring,
set pure <loul)le-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-;
Sin. Her Diamonds,
£lO.
Larsjer Diamonds,
£l5, £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Sig-
net Ring,
25/-.
15ct., £2.
18ct„ £2/10/-
A. Saunders’
15et. Gold
Cluster Drop
Earrings, set pure
double-cut Diamonds,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
CHARMING GIFTS
/mv
V:
S
*
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold
Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, £5/10/-.
Other styles, £3/10/-, £4, £5,
£6, £7/10/-, £lO.
/
Sn Jl
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold Neck-
lace, set Diamonds
and Pearls,
£B/10/-
All Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, sot Pearls and
Amethysts or Red
Stones, ;J0 /-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set two
Double-cut Dia-
monds and one
Pearl, Oval setting,
£2/15/-
3 Diamonds,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Curb Snap
£2/10/-. Cithers, 25/-, 30/-, £2,
Isct., £3, £4, £4/10/-,
Padlock Bangle,
£3, £3/10/-.
£5.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set
three Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A Saunders’
15ct. Gold Claw
lting, sot Austra-
lian Redstone,
£3/10/-
A. Rammers’ Oct. Gold Two-bar
Brooch, set Diamond and four Rubies,
25/-
A. Saunders' Oct.
Gold Sleeve Links,
handsomely i ngrave d,
20/-. 15ct. Gold, 35/-
fib
■P
HI
m
■
gjSSBBB
St
A. Saunders’ Hunting Keyless
liever, 30/-. Extra-quality Silver Oases
and Works, £2/-, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £O, £7/10/-.
Rolled Gold Oases, 10 years' guarantee,
£2/15/-; 20 years’, £4/4/-; 25 years’,
£5/5/-, £6/6. Solid Gold, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Sovereign
Purse, 40/-; extra
heavy, 50 / loct.,
£3/12/6. Gold-filled,
17/6. Silver, 7/6.
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Pendant, set
Pearls and Amethyst,
22/6.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Half-hoop
Kins, srt P ure
Diamonds,
£3/10/-'
Diamonds, Robies
or Sapphires,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
(iold Souvenir Pen-
dant, 10/(5; with
Enamel Shield, 12/0.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George St., Sydney (Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Keyless Level- Watch,
15/-. Our Special Non-magnetic Lever,
20/-, 25/-, 30/-. Extra-quality Cases
and Works, £2, £2/10/-, £3. All
■ guaranteed.
Lx^c/una
Cures Eczema.
Frederick Street, Camperdown. Mr. S. Fielder,
Randwick. Dear Sir,—l have received great benefit
from your Skin Cure “Exzerma,” for Prickly Heat
and Chafe, and 1 will be pleased to recommend it to
anybody 1 see suffering from the same distressing
trouble. — Ernest Bird.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick. 2/6
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
Shipped in British, vessels. M
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
Evans lens teacher & Webb, Ltd. Liverpool * London.
The Bulletin
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRA TED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over oO
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Meurie
England. Bd. How to Get Rich, II- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders,, a laie
book by lie Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, 1'- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS' RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Fife, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window licket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke by Hubert Males, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., • 1/-. Beauty s.
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1 '3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. SaniwCs Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisles 1 ref.masonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Bod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce 11/-. Practical Gas and- Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd
The Art of Jiu -Htsu. 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd How to Bead Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2, New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Tainting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m.
HOME CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN PIOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
up
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows _ r
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in-plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both m and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived. _
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this nreat work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. .
bookseller to the commonwealths
I> K ok. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
gipsy foutuni-:: telling cards— love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated.
I'3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-: post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man
From Snowy River.-#?-. Poultry Keeping. ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, II- posted.. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. -Every Man His- Own Car-
penter. 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator. 11-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-To-Date,
1 '?, po«ted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations ana poruaits, i/-,
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2, Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood,. 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lef/s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want l l ve got it,
Don’t, be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash PF’Established 2o leais.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Jig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mare Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
I/- posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/- Sapphc,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Da.
Milford's .Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsav Gob-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Sd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Head Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing,.. 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2, Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted 8d; WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


The Bulletin
M^RlfflAjjSjL
Oil
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
4&
S
v i
■^sssSfy 7 ”- •
i ~ t
•■XMg:
SAXTON & BINNS’ NEW TUO “SAXO.’
60-h.p. “SKANDIA” ENGINE.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON.
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Don't forget to use
I)
to - night—and again
in the morning .
You will find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the leeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores,
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester, England.
Used the
World Over
The Bulletin
MOTOR
...CARS
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
The Bulletin
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Eights, 4-Cvcle,
4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
QUICK and KEEN
A quick, keen shave is the result of using a sensible
Razor like
“the: plum”
Its silver-steel blade is tempered so accurately that, no
matter how stiff the beard, the “Plum' will leave the
face as smooth as velvet.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
mq^
00
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which ii different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’lr never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jckes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
06
Write for our New I' ovelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the ease than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Hayraarket, Sydney.
. . '".7 '■ •’
Savory Double Boiler.
Enamelled Throughout.
It boils inside or on top of any stove,
requiring no attention.
It is a specially-devised double boiler
for boiling and steaming fancy meat-
dishes and puddings, so that they will
be more nutritious and delicious, as
well as economising fuel.
Steam enters sufficiently at the white
arrows to keep food moist and thor-
oughly steam it. whilst surplus steam
condenses and returns to boiler
through holes where the black arrows
are shown. Result —delicious, nour-
ishing food.
Trice, 9/6. Posted, 11/6.
Practical Cookery.
Something Really New.
EVERYBODY WHO HAS THEM IS TALKING ABOUT THEM!
The Hollow-bottom
Savory Roaster.
A low-priced cut cooked in the .Savory
Roaster is more palatable and nour-
ishing than a more expensive one
cooked in any ordinary dish.
It roasts meat and vegetables to per-
fection in any good stove. Write for
one to-day. 12in. Round Shape of
Blued Steel, 8/6; Posted, 10/-;
Inter-State, 10/9. ITiin. xDA in.
Oval Shape of Blue Enamel. 10/-;
Posted', 11/9; Inter-State, 12/6.
These two Cookers make any Stove
doubly efficient.
“DANKS”
Otherwise JOHN DANKS & SON PTY., LTD.,
“THE stove PEOPLE,”
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
Edison BlueAmberol
Records for January
The Bulletin
The list of records for January starts the New Year extremely
well, and it only necessitates your glancing through the items,
a'nd' noting" the pieces and the names of the artists, to be con-
vinced of their meirrt.
Two charming-Concert Records are available, while the Regu-
lar Records could not fail to he popular, since they include such
splendid items as “Back Home in Tennessee” (A. 1 eesey and
his Orchestral ; “In Monterey” (B. Lenihan) ; “Massa’s in de
Cold, Cold Ground” (F. J. Bacon) ; “And the Great Big
World Went ’Round and ’Round” (Collins and Harlan) ;
“Ciribiribin” (Sodero’s Band) ; and “I’ve Been Floating Down
the Old Green River” (Billy Murray).
Make a note right away of those you fancy.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
28229-
-Nymphes et Svlvains {II.
Soprano, in French, orch.
Bemberg).
ace.
Alice Verlet
28230—1 Know That My Redeemer Liveth —
Messiah (G. F. Handel).
Soprano, orch. ace. Julia Heinrich
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2824—Back Home in Tennessee.
Armand Vecsey and His Orchestra
2827 —Loading Up the Mandy Lee. Male
voices, orch. acc. Premier Quartet
2831 Could the Dreams of a Dreamer Come
True. Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
2832 — Bells of Lee. Contralto, orch. acc.
Helen Clark
2833 Ciribiribin. Sodero’s Band
2834 I’m Dreaming of You. Yodel Song,
orch. acc. Ward Baiton
2835 — There’s a Long, Long Trail. Tenor,
orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard and Chorus
2837 —lolanthe Airs —No. 1.
New York Light Opera Company
2 838 And the Great Big World Went ’Round
and ’Round. Baritone and Tenor,
orch. acc.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan
•2839—1 Love a Piano—Stop ! Look ! Listen !
• Tenor, orch. ace.
Walter Van Brunt and Chorus
2840 — In Monterey. Tenor, orch. acc.
Burton Lenihan
2841 Little Love; a Little Kiss Would Go a
Long, Long Way. Contralto and
Baritone, orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph A. Phillips
2842 I’ve Been Floating Down the Old
Green River. Tenor, orch. acc.
Billy Murray
.2844 —Lorna. Tenor, orch. acc.
Emory B. Randolph
2850 Girl Who Smiles—Waltz. For Danc-
ing. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
2851 Molly Dear, It’s You I’m After Medley.
One-Step. For Dancing.
National Promenade Band
2853 Massa’s in de Cold, Cold Ground-
Transcription. Banjo, unaccompanied.
Fred J. Bacon
2854 Answer. Baritone, orch. acc.
Thomas Chalmers
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


?
GEORCEjt
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 0.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
'Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
Bo U RICE 5-
The PtctuVc BlocK
COMMONWEALTH
3?
'A'*
OF AUSTRALIA.
To the Business Men of Australia:
Although you may be striving strenuously to preserve the Empire's Trade,
your responsibility does not end there.
It is your duty and privilege to help the men who are risking their lives at the
front.
Those men’s sacrifices would be useless without monev. MONEY is needed to
WIN the WAR.
The war will be won, well won, and quickly won, if behind the firing line the
business men stand and offer their money to their Country.
The Commonwealth Government asks you to lend your money to help win the
war, and offers you A\% interest and other advantages, and the security
is the consolidated revenue of the Commonwealth.
All information, forms, etc., at any Rank, Savings Bank or Post Office.
INVEST IN THE WAR LOAN AND MAINTAIN YOUR COUNTRY’S STABILITY.
Applications close February 8
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, January, 1917.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Phe odious differentiation between officers
and privates on the Egyptian railways still
continues. From thereabouts The Bulletin
receives photos of the Alexandria railway
station, with its notice-board “Entrance for
Officers and Civilians”—the hole for the
nigger and Billjim to crawl through is
around the corner. This war ought to con-
solidate the Empire. But the stupid, blun-
dering military, and the woolly-brained poli-
ticians whom they control, seem to be trying
how many grievances they can supply Bill-
jim with. And every grievance is a wedge,
big or little.
During December only 2617 recruits were
' secured in the Gommonweattn, whereas the
number needed every month to repair wast-
age is 16,50(h The Antis said in the con-
scription campaign that voluntaryism would
• do all that was necessary. It might not be
a bad thing to call off all other effort for a
couple of mouths and throw the whole
responsibility on the Anti organisation. In
fact, if the Anti organisation is half as
sincere as it declared it was, it would sug
gest this scheme itself.
The Cook and Hughes followers in Par-
liament expect to meet at an early date to
form still another “National" fusion. Of
course it will be nothing of the kind. A
National Government would embody all
parties. It would carry into effect The
l iurxETix’s old dream of an elective Minis-
try consisting of the strongest men in Par-
liament. A Cook-Hughes junta would ex-
clude representatives of the party which has
a majority in at least one House; and,-so
far as recent trials of strength have shown,
that party has a majority in the country,
too. If it is impossible to secure a National
Government, and if we must have a party
Government, then the only honest, demo-
cratic thing to he done is to appeal to the
country in order to ascertain which party
it shall be.
. Like a lot of other people, Donald Mac-
kinnon, Director-General of Recruiting,
wanted to know how many shirkers the
Defence Department was sheltering. In reply
the Department makes the confession that
no less than 23 per cent, of the staff are
“apparently eligible for active service.” It
is added that 9 per cent, have been “de-
barred by superior authority”; and it is
about time “superior authority” reconsid-
ered the matter. There may have been some
excuse for withholding certain men early in
the war, when we had the idea that the
recruits really got some military training in
Australia. Now, however, that we know
they don’t—and if they did, returned men
are best able to give it—the list of Defence
Department employees who have been “de-
barred by superior authority” might appro-
priately be overhauled.
Talk about “repatriating” soldiers and all
the rest of it is cheap. If there is any man
who ought to fight till the last gasp for the
llilljim who has been put out of action it is
Pearce, Minister for Defence. Yet in
Pearce’s own Department, of 2097 persons
employed, a miserable 356 are returned
soldiers. There is scarcely a job in the
whole establishment that the returned soldier
of one grade or another could not do; yet
only 17 per cent, of the places are filled by
returned men. It is the same from the top
to the bottom. If they were all Australians
who had the best jobs it wouldn’t be so bad ;
but some of the most responsible places are
filled by men who have not only never seen
action but have not the least understanding
of the Australian.
THE TERRORS OF PEACE.
JIM: "Wot teas that you teas sayin’ about
that brown filly?”
BILL: "Oh, the time she nearly pitched me
over the stock yard fence. That was the
nearest I ever got ter bein’ passed in.”
One little step lias just been taken
towards making the old border lines less dis-
tinct. In the days before Federation Broken
Hill had an immense Customs business, and
the establishment has been kept up till now
Goods imported to Australia have been con-
veyed from Port Adelaide or Port Pirie
(S.A.) to the Barrier in bond, and cleared
there as required. Now Customs house and
bonded stores at the Hill are to go, and goods
from outside Australia will be bonded, or
cleared, in the natural way at the point of
entry. One effect will be to increase S. Aus.
Customs figures and diminish those of N. S.
Wales.
The incurable Argus is overjoyed to find
something to replace the German and give
Australia permanent Freetrade :
Japanese hypodermic syringes are absolutely true
to the [German] model, and, it is said, superior in
some respects to it. Japan’s hope lies in her ability
to sell her manufactures cheaply until she can
improve in workmanship.
And, of course. Australia's hope is not to
have any manufactures until she can improve
her workmanship by never making a start.
A WAY THEY HAVE IN THE ARMY.
"But if I brought you back a Victoria Cross,
would you — er—give Me a chance
then ?”
"Oh, can't you think of something original.
Captain Brown? I've got half a dozen
promises of I .C.’s.”
The farce of closing up Gorman-owned
businesses in Australia while the Common-
wealth tariff leaves the door open to the
foreigner, is shown in tin; rubber industry.
Hughes shut up the German-owned Conti-
nental Tyre Co. and then practically handed
over its business to various German-owned
American companies. While in 1914-15 our
importations of rubbered waterproof cloth
were valued at £34,741, in 1915-10 they were
£109,017; and imported rubber manufactures
(mostly tyres) rose from £407,529 in 1914-15
to £775,531 in 1915-16. Britain practically
controls the rubber fields of the world, and.
we can shut out the foreigner entirely by a
tariff if we choose; yet German-Americans
largely control our trade, put our workers
out of employment, and make fat profits out
of us. No wonder they laugh.
A new idea in economy has occurred to
the Vic. Education Department. When a
district wants a school very badly the De-
partment lets the parents of the prospective
scholars buy materials and build the school
on their own land with their own labor. The
Department then sends along the staff. But
what about the yarn that our system of edu-
cation is free? No education system is free
which offers a district the alternative of
providing its own school-building or going
without a teacher.
During the past year the Political Labor
machine came more completely under “the
domination of the trades unions” than ever.
By paying sixpence per year per member a
union can secure, for all its members full
League rights, including a vote in selection
ballots. Hitherto, except for the A.W.U.,
the Railway Workers’ Union (now a branch
of the A.W.U.) and one or two others, the
organisations were content with representa-
tion on the conferences, which was secured
by a capitation fee of 2d. per member. Last
year, however, 25 N. S. Wales unions, in-
cluding such big bodies as the Northern
Miners’ Federation, Wharf Laborers, Boiler-
makers, Amalgamated Engineers and Opera-
tive Bricklayers, decided to contribute on
the more expensive basis, whereby tens of
thousands of votes which are ' definitely
unionistic are thrown into the balance in
all ballots. In theory, at any rate, the sys-
tem is quite wrong; for a man becomes a
member of the Labor party, not because of
what he thinks, but because he happens to
be a brickmaker, or a boilermaker or a cook.
The statesmen who built Victoria’s new
Footwear Regulations Act, under which
leather is to be leather and brown paper
shoddy, carefully provided that the measure
should not apply to boots and shoes intended
for export. The foreigner will presently
note this, and after he has given Australian
goods a bad name will steadily .refrain from
buying them.- so that another prospective
industry will be wrecked. After that he
will buy our leather and make the boots
himself.
“Die Alibi” :
In Melbourne a meeting convened by Prime Min-
ister Huffhes was held to form a Society for the
Rehabilitation of Discredited Politicians. Out of
19 appointed as an executive committee only four
were born in Australia, and one of them was Alec
Peacock, whose Premiership and seat are both in
jeopardy. Hume CooK was elected lion. sen. sec. and
if Sammy Mauser had been made librarian all the
rejects would have been there. Three Australians
out of au executive of 20 are to have the direction
of Australia's political affairs; so I’m not surprised
no mention was made of a proper Protective tariff
for Australia. Australia? Pooh! Also Rabbits!
Conscription might at least be extended
to young men who have left Britain for
Australia within the past live years. Take,
for instance, the case of young man John
Brown, four years out from England, who
was charged in Melbourne last week with
begging food. He confessed to having no
other means of livelihood, and was accused
by one householder of returning to examine
one of her side-windows after she had sent
him empty a\<\ay from the front door. The
fact of a policeman finding 29 revolver cart-
ridges in his pockets still more pointedly
suggests that John should be bearing arms
to kill Germans with ; and to that end the
Law should repatriate him.
P.M.G. Webster isn’t joking when he talks
about enforcing economy. Witness Esrom, a
village in the Bathurst (N.S.W.) district.
Lately someone, noticing that the post office
seemed abnormally funereal, got suspicious
and poked a small hoy through a window
to investigate. Then it was found that the
place had been evacuated with such masterly
skill that no one suspected the move, and
for some days the township had been trust-
ingly pushing its correspondence into an
office that was no longer there, in a way of
speaking. An extravagant department
would have notified that the business was
to be closed down ; but the rigidly-economical
Webster saved the l id. or thereabouts by
letting Billjim find out for himself.
IN ACCORD.
WOWSER: “In dealing with this drink evil.
Brother, tee must go to extremes. Half
measures are no aood at all.”
BEER BRIGAND: “ That's me, Boss —full pints
every bloomin' time!”
As the miners who cut the coal made such
a good thing out of punching holes in the
Arbitration principle, the water-siders who
unload it at Hobart have quite naturally
been trying the same dodge. They have an
award givirfg them Is. 24d. per ton, but they
decided not to work for anything less than
2s. 9d. per hour by day, and 4s. Id. by night.
When therefore the Taviuni came in with 500
tons of coal which were badly wanted, they
knocked off. But there weren’t enough of
them to frighten the law into a hollow log;
and all that happened was that the Taviuni
took the coal away again. This shows how
powerful the Arbitration law is to resist
the strong and command equal justice for the
weak!
GAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The 134t1i report—on “Gas”- —of the N.S.W.
Necessary Commodities Commission lias been issued.
The report, in its preamble, states among other things
that where an unfortunate difference of opinion has
existed among the members of the Commission, the
difficulty lias been got over by the submission to his
Excellency of a separate report from each member!
Welding to shape our weighty views
On the various items the vulgar use,
Morning and evening, heavy and grave,
Nose unto nose in locked conclave,
We sit in a horrible secrecy,
The regnant lords of the N.C.C.
Eatable, condiment, broth and brew
Under our noses in grand review
Day after laboring day have passed—
Some to the outermost darkness cast,
Some on the list of the Only Great
Blazoned in permanence. Such is Fate!
Never a thing that the working bloke
Haply may guzzle or gorge or smoke,
But we run it to earth and hold it down,
Examine minutely from crop to crown,
And blither and jibber above, to see
Whether or not it’s a true N.C.
But the product and proof of our lingual toil—■
The only, impeccable, dinkum oil—
Ts the scintillant subject that takes the floor
In report one hundred and thirty-four.
Many a tireless, champing chin
Went to its building, whose words begin:
"Printed report of the N.C.C.,
May it please your Excellency ,—
Gas !”
Now and again, by evil hap,
Out of the dust of the daily scrap
It chances that never a mother’s son
Voices the views of another one ;
That every cove has a differing shout
On the matter we chance to be thrashing out;
And lo! in that innocent circumstance
A glorious juncture of Happy Chance!
For every member (such is the law
Framed by the deity known as Jaw)
Must air his particular, private views
In a rainbow phrasing of words diffuse,
Placid or turbulent, long or short,
In a separate, splendid, Special Report
For the eye of the Trinity erudite —
Oonnington, Edmunds and William White,
Chairmen-Commissioners, N.C.C.,
Holding our stomachs and souls in fee,
Honored to be (as their signatures state)
His Ex’s obedient serfs to date.
Figure his Ex. with the portly screed.
Mindful that he who can run may read,
Yet murmuring still, the report begun :
“Why should he read who can also run?”
Brothers, ’twould madden you and me !
Does it please his Excellency,—-
Gas?
Brothers, awaken (also arise!)
Gird your exteriors ! Move ! Get Wise!
Under the nescient noses of you
Leaks a commodity out to the blue !
Streetfuls of revenue, shipfuls of “tin,”
Babble to waste as you waggle your chin ;
Bluff, innuendo, premiss, abuse—-
Here to your hand is their ultimate use:
Over this continent, centre to shore,
Talk till you’re tired —then talk some more!
Mouthing committee and militant strike,
Scuffle in unison, yelp what you like!
Candle-box orators, coves in the street,
Go to it, keep to it, burble and bleat!
Veil at a canter, a run or a walk—
Matter won’t matter, if only you talk !
Give us the strength of what England should do;
Spruik, for the Empire’s depending on you !
Salve your verbosity day after day,
Cork it in cylinders, stow it away;
Make it the freight for a million trips,
Ship it to Europe in Billiam’s ships;
Then, with your slogan of “We are the One!”
Yank out the stoppers—and vale the Hun!
So with our home-grown weapon we
Shall serve both God and his Excellency , —
GAS!
N.S.W.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


Australian Novels .1 Adventure
1/.each— The “Bookstall” Series—l/1 posted
MAJESTY
SEI
s'
of Australian Books.
“OX HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
by ROY BRIDGES.
An intensely interesting and dramatic
romance of Van Diemen’s Land.
“FOR TURON GOLD,”
by DON DELANEY.
A brilliant Australian goldfields’ tale,
crowded with exciting incidents.
TiffinmES don
DELANEY
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
by JOHN X. CAMERON.
A story of the good old days in the Aus-
tralian bush.
“BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S
COMMAND,”
by ROY BRIDGES.
By LOUIS BROKE.
The Famous Australian Writer of South Sea Stories.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,”
“THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS BLAKE.”
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR LAUNCH/'
by ARTHUR 11. ADAMS.
SIX SPLENDID BUSHRANGING BOOKS—I/
“SHORT-LIVED BUSHRANGERS,”
—by CHARLES WHITE.
“ JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER,”
—by CHARLES WHITE.
“DAN KELLY, OUTLAW,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
‘“THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN RANGE,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP,,”
—by LANCELOT BOOTH.
each.
“STELLA SOTHERN,”
by I. A. ROSENBLUM.
A novel of exciting adventures in
Northern Territory.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
by DON DELANEY.
TOOLSorSaIN
mm
77
“TOOLS OF SATAN,”
by LANCELOT BOOTH.
One of those thrilling, absorbing novels
that holds the reader’s attention from the
first page to the last.
“SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,”
by A. J. BARRY.
A series of sea stories of great dramatic
strength by one of the most popular of
sea-adventure writers.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or direct
from the Publishers.
Write for Complete Catalogue.
The Bulletin
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney
I 111 11111 111 11111111 111 1111 111 111111111 111 11 i 1111111111 111 I 111 11 111 11 111 111 1 11111 1 111 111111 (111 111 I 111 11111 111 I 111 1 11 111 11 111 111 111 111111111 ni 11111 111 In ? 11l 11111 m l"l I
Electric Motors
The Bulletin
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse— motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
rstinoliougf
Manchester
Standard Waygood Hercules, Ltd.,
77. King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co,, Ltd.,
William Street, Perth.
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Works Tralford Park. Manchester. England.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
27-31. Currie Street, Adelaide,
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
m
VS
Welding 1 18 in. diameter Steel Gas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds.
Nl7l//
■0
L-/h
w
NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS,
COG WHEELS, etc.
THE DAY OF THE EXPERT. To-day is the day of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
who is thorough, efficient and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
be conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
THE ENGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxy-Acetylene process is not abreast of the times; he is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence.
Throughout the world to-day the Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest scientific addition to every engineering
workshop, which, fitted with this process, has an advantage over the opposition impossible to estimate. It is simple,
yet wonderfully effective; its price is trifling, and the plant is portable. Whether the broken parts require to be cut
or welded at the bench or by the roadside is of no consequence.
, wor k of Iron or Steel welding or cutting can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It is revolutionising
tne engineering trade. Broken parts that once were useless can now be successfully welded and made new
again. This, too, in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
ot pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
All Engineers should at once'write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetvlene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process will make new again:—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes,
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes. Worn Iveyways in Shafts.
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous AVelding,” published by Charles Griffin & Co., London, states:
Within the last few years welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-aeetylene blow-
pipes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents— MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street,
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
>1
m
.
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Acetylene Works, Flinders Street,
Adelaide.


The Allies’ peace proposals .being so im-
bued with the spirit of; justice must be
endorsed by everyone inspired by the spirit
of right and that wise spirit King George IV.
topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special Whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
The Man Who Made Motor Tyres Possible.. —
Many old ti*ne experimenters and inventors would
be greatly surprised if they came to life and saw
the extent to which their discoveries have become
a necessity of modern existence. This applies to
many men long since dead, but to none more
forcibly than to Charles' Goodyear, the man who
discovered rubber vulcanization in 1844- After fail-
ing in the farm-implement business in 1836, Good-
year investigated the rubber industry, .in which he
foresaw great possibilities, provided rubber articles
could be made durable enough for commercial pur-
poses. He spent eight years in unsuccessful attempts
to discover a way to accomplish this. One day,
while experimenting with a combination of rubber
and sulphur, he accidentally dropped a piece of
the mixture on a hot stove. Before it could bo
removed it had been partially cured. Goodyear
noticed the toughening effect of this treatment, and
followed up the idea more carefully, finally producing
a practical rubber compound. The process of vul-
canization has been .perfected in many details; but
it is fundamentally ’ the same as sixty years ago.
Goodyear’s fortunate accident was the beginning of
inventions and an industry which has become one of
the largest in the world. In a sense, Charles Good-
year is the father of the rubber industry. So the
founders of the Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Company
chose the name Goodyear as representative of inven-
tive- genius and elemental merit in this field.
Goodyear died in 1850, after his patents had been
widely infringed. He passed away a poor man,
little realising that in 1916 over-3,500,000 pneumatic
motor tyres would be manufactured under his name.
. —Advt.
TWICE
DAILY
2 p.m., 8 p.m.
WIRTHS’ NEW
HIPPODROME
HAYMARKET
NOW
SHOWING
WILLIAM FOX PRESENTS AUSTRALIA’S PERFECT WOMAN,
A N N E TTE KEL L E R M A N N
in his Million Dollar Spectacle,
A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS.
THE MASTER PANTOMIME OF ALL TIME.
Unequalled for gorgeous magnificence.
20,000 Gnomes, Fairies, Battling Warriors and Beauties. ■>'
Transformations beggaring description.
Grown-ups will revel in its splendors—-Children will find a realisation of their dreams of
Fairyland.
FULL OPERATIC ORCHESTRA UNDER THE BATON OF GUSTAV SLAPOFFSKI.
, . T.WO PERFORMANCES. DAILY, • 2 p.m. -and S p.m.
POPULAR PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Palings.
Note. —“A Daughter of the Gods” will positively not be shown in the suburbs for at least six
months.
KELLERMANN SEASON
SPORTING
NOTIONS
‘Stinger” : Apropos the par in last week’s
Bulletin concerning the A.J.C. and its obligation to
have an occasional look at Ikey’s bank account.
Whj' not follow the example of the Calcutta Turf
Club ? When that body licenses a bookmaker it de-
mands a deposit of £l3OO, so that should he fail
to come up to the scratch the person taken down
may put the case before the committee and receive
payment. The Ike who had attempted to dodge his
obligation is then handed what remains of the
deposit and told to get off the earth. However,
there is something doing even in Sydney. Since
last week the A.J.C. has sent out notices to several
of the Chosen asking them to call round at their
earliest convenience.
It is not often that a circus act is seen on
a Sydney racecourse, but one occurred last week at
Rosebery Park. For the 14.1 Handicap Lillyman
had been put on board Bon Accord, but as the
diminutive nag declined to face the barrier the field
was delayed for about 10 minutes. Suddenly Lilly-
man dismounted, led the pony to the tapes, and
as they flew up took a flying leap into the saddle.
He got away on terms with the rest of the field and
won in easy style. Lillyman deserves three cheers
for his acrobatic feat, and the club which allows this
sort of thing deserves to be told not to do it any
more. On Saturday at Rosehill Lillyman rode the
winners of three successive races, and that was a
good performance, too.
Two seasons back La Penna won as a
two-year-ohl, but until Saturday had not since then
done anything. Nevertheless there was solid backing
for him in the Rosehill Handicap, which he won.
There Was a bit of luck about it, though, for Naviro
was only a head away and going two strides to the
other’s one. For a tick or so it looked as if what
happened at Randwick in the autumn when Cetigne
just snuffed La Penna out on the post was going
to happen again. The winner is by the Maoriland
sire King Rufus, also represented in Sydney by
Royal Rufus and Common Law. La Penna lately
moved from Burton’s establishment to O’Connor’s.
Black Nut, over whom someone won a hatful at
Randwick on New Year’s Day, was in the hunt on
Saturday and finished third.
* * * *■
Preparing two-year-olds is an art, and it
looks as if Rosehill trainer Booth has no equal around
Sydney-; in this ticklish business. Last Saturday
week he provided Mehruda, the winner of the
youngsters’ event at Canterbury Park ; and on Satur-
day oh. his own ground produced Lady Egale, who
started ; favorite and showed the way home. This
last winner of Booth’s is by Malster from Egale, and
consequently a full-blood relation to Even Time,
Grist, Eager and others which in the past had their
share of victories. Early in the day Booth turned
out the Flying Handicap winner Dame Acre, who
as a juvenile last year made a big name for herself.
She led practically all the way and beat a good
field comfortably. Dame Acre carried 7st. 121 b.
She has 7st. 111 b. in the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes.
The Hordern filly Cerealia, third with 7st. 71b. on
Saturday, is accommodated with 71b. less.
Kalgoorlie and Boulder City can still
spare a bob or two for sport. During most of last
year races held each alternate Saturday proved a
financial success. Then in Christmas week, when
thousands of the more affluent citizens were holiday-
ing at the coast, a meeting was held at each place,
and over £6OOO went through the totalisators. Israel
was doing peezniss as usual, too, and did not look
unhappy at the end.
* #■ * *
“Chal” : Cannot something be done to pre-
vent owners from starting in jumping-races horses
which appear to have absolutely no chance of getting
the course safely, let alone winning? This type of
steeplechaser is not at all uncommon, and it is time
the clubs recognised that the mere presence in a
steeplechase of such a nag is positively dangerous to
the rest of the field, while the unfortunate jockey
that rides him absolutely takes a gamble with his
life. The jockeys are the servants of the clubs, and
should be protected. The entries of one-eyed horses
and of particularly obstreperous prads at the barrier
are refused in the interests of safety and of backers.
Why not apply the same rule in this case? How
pleasant it is for the supporters of the favorite to be
robbed of all chance of collecting because one of these
apologies for steeplechasers, perhaps started by some
vain owner who likes to see his colors carried in a
race, brings down their elect ! In this State (South
Aus.) during the last 12 months one horse has started
in eight races on metropolitan courses and has fallen
every time. Another (the property of a well-known
legislator) has started eight times and only thrice
has the pilot dismounted at his leisure.
Complaints are being made in England
that racing—which has a struggle to exist these
Mines, anyway—is being strangled by the exactions
of “Kitty,” meaning incidental expenses. . Nearly
every race-day means a special train at stiff fares,
and local caterers, hotelkeepers and drivers regard the
racegoer as a lamb to be shorn. Details mentioned
in the 1 correspondence are a sovereign admission to
Tattersall’s betting-ring, “four shillings for four
glasses of home-made non-sparkling lemonade,” and a
guinea; a night for bedroom alone, and “no bridal
chamber at that.” The result is that a man has to
bet pretty high and successful! v to get home square,
and if he loses has his losses doubled.
Every young Australian should seriously
ask himself “Shall I be a pug, a movie star or a
jockey?” Otherwise he might decide to become a
mere Judge or a surgeon or a sharebroker or some-
thing and be tormented by the cost of living all the
rest of his life. Lately-dead American jockey Danny
Maher drew from Lord Rosebery £4OOO a year for
seven years as a first retainer, and Lord Derby
parted with £2500 annually for the privilege of
having second call. Danny had been riding 15 years
in England when consumption got him.
At 19 race meetings in Maoriland during
Christmas and New Year holidays £815,000 was put
through the totalisator. At the same meetings 12
months previously £747,000 arrived at the pay-in
counter. The public cut it all up except the best
end of £lOO,OOO, which was left behind. Multiply
that by x and get an idea of what Ike has been
getting away with in N. S. Wales.
"Toki”: The Hawkes Bay Jockey Club
(Hastings, M:L.) is a vindictive body. In the
registration of disqualifications appearing in the
Racing Calendar is the name of the racing gelding
Problem, alias Carmo, Warepo, Redeem and some
more. It was in ’9l that this nag journeyed from Aus-
tralia to conquer Maoriland. It won races in Otago and
Westland under various names, but was copped as a
ringer and sent up at the Napier Town and Suburban
meeting, since eliminated by the Racing Commission.
In the official record all horses and owners with the
exception of Carmo are disqualified for “life”
or a term of years. But this did not satisfy the
Hawkes Bay Jockey Club. The offender and his con-
nections were fired out “for ever,” and the sentence
is so recorded in the register. The picture of the
club’s vengeance pursuing the ghost of the erring
moke through Sheol is appalling.
Matty Smith, imported from U.S.A. by
Stadiums, Ltd., made his debut at Sydney on Satur-
day in a two-part drama. Jimmy Hill was the other
part, and the main purpose of his job was to give
Mr. Smith a lesson in boxing and, incidentally, an
occasional punch on the nose. It was a dreary
business. The visitor, a chunky, strong chap, whose
face became suffused with an expression of pained
astonishment whenever he stopped a hard ’vm, was
Hill’s meat at any stage of the performance. Appar-
ently he has a punch, but a wallop that doesn’t
land woodens no pug. Smith by the grace of the
smite withheld was there at the end, and when judg-
ment went against him there was much applause.
He started off the wrong mark.
■¥■***
The disturbance at Brisbane on Saturday
night between Wave Geike and Sid Godfrey (N.S.W.)
only proved that a hat-rack frame may be accom-
panied by a cast-iron jaw and a fistful of high
explosive. Geike carried 51b. more weight and used
it for T 1 rounds. But thence onwards the sparse
Godfrey had most to say. By closing one of Geike’s
eyes and opening the other the Sydneysider asserted
himself considerably. To have given the verdict to
Waverley would have been grand larceny..
If the Mike Gibbons-Dillon affray at St.
Paul (U.S.A.) on November 10 was on the level
Gibbons is entitled to all that has been said about
him as a mighty clever boxer. Dillon, the best
fighting machine in America, was made to look like
a novice. He scarcely landed a glove on Gibbons,
who piled up points by the dozen. It was a fighter
against a boxer, with the boxer a winner all through,
mainly because the wallops were deposited where
Gibbons didn’t happen to be, and because the fighter
could never get close up. All of which suggests that
Darcy, if he ever gets into the ring with Gibbons,
will find himself up against something different from
anything lie has been accustomed to. Weights:
Gibbons, list. Ilb. ; Dillon, list. 91b.
“Eryander”: Re physical culture and
boxers (B. 11/1/T7). *An axiom of former lights
of the .ring was that “muscle-binding” was fatal to
speed and skill. Mace used to be very plain about
it. “I don’t care much about coaehin’ chaps wi’
muscle-mountains all over ’em. Course I can teach
’em a wrinkle or two, an’ smarten ’em up a bit, but
they’ll never do me no credit. A boxer ought to be
that way that, only for the bones, you could tie a
knot in his arm. Feel this”—and out would go his
limb. Quite easy to the touch; no sign of stony
muscle-ridges, until he suddenly stiffened them into
existence. “That’s the way to be,” the old ’un would
comment. “Muscles sound asleep till you wants ’em.
The other sort is mostly slow as a funeral.” Yet
Sandow was a physical-cultnrist, and his muscles were
quite supple to the feel until he braced them.
“Scot”: About physical drill and training
(B. 11/1/’l7). All training is supposed to be
physical drill, but physical drill is not training in
the sense implied by athletes and trainers. In
most cases the driller or culturist or whatever he
calls himself has at least a fair understanding of
what he is doing. But the great majority of alleged
trainers and athletes are as ignorant of physical
processes and organic function as they are of astro-
nomy. To a great extent training methods have
been revolutionised in the last 20 years, but there
is still room for revoluting a lot more. Scores of
young athletes are ruined by application of lunatic
theories regarding “plenty of work” applied by igno-
ramuses whose rule-of-thumb methods are derived
from legends about what Bill Jones successfully
endured, or something that was reported to have
been done by Bill Smith, I have two great
runners. One of them trained on. fresh air, very
simple food, and an occasional sprint; the .other on
laborious toil with a pick and shovel, on covering
many miles morning and night, and swallowing vast
quantities of nitrogenous grub. The first ran for
years and is alive and sound as a bell. The second
did some wonderful things for a short period and
then his heart struck. Both were thin slabs; and
one had brains and the other hadn’t.
Two fine efforts stood clour in Sydney
swimming on Saturday—Frank Carberry’s success
from scratch in Waverley League’s 100yds. handicap
(61 3-ssec.), and the Eastern Suburbs 14-year-old
Donald Fraser’s 200yds. heat from scratch (2min.
34 3-ssec.). Fraser, 'who gave away starts up to
129 sec., is suspected of being likely to develop into
a marvel.
“T. 0.1.”: Charles Lawrence, who came
to Australia in 1861 with the first English XT,
imported by Spiers and Pond, died recently in Mel-
bourne. lie must have long passed his 80th' year.
He was Middlesex by birth, but became qualified to
play for Surrey. Then he went to live in Edinburgh
for some years, and afterwards crossed over to Dub-
lin, where a namesake and near relative kept a sports
depot in Sackville-street. Here he became secretary
to the United All-Ireland Eleven. He was a fast
bowler and a good bat. though not a powerful hitter.
He remained in Australia, having accepted an engage-
ment with the Albert Club, Sydney, whose ground
was out Redfern way. After that Lawrence got an
appointment on the railways at Newcastle, and in
time took a team of aboriginal cricketers to England.
Unless William Caffyn be alive Lawrence was the
last of the Spiers and Pond XI. The members of the
firm are dead, Spiers but recently at between 80 and
90 years of age. Mallam, the agent sent to England
to secure the XT, is also gone. In 1899 Caffyn was
71 not out, so if alive he will now be 87.
Concealed in a gtudebaker Six, on the
beach at Seaport mj.) the other day, AY. Jewell
left half a mile astern in 21 2-ssec (84 m.p.h.), and
a mile in 44sec. (81f m.p.h.). If this speed microbe
gets acclimatised in Australia, the local production
of frequent thrill and occasional smash is a sure
thing.
11. Parsons’,s whiz along the Mortlake
(Vic.) roadway last week skittled all previous motor-
bike records. When blow-outs, battery troubles
and other calamities ended the whirl it was found
that Parsons’s machine had covered 10 miles in
7min. 21 l-ssec.; 25 miles in 22min. 9 2-ssec. ; 50
miles, 44min. 35 2-5 sec. ; 200 miles, 3hr. 20min.
All these times go on the slate.
J. O. Anderson, N.S.W. country singles
tennis champion for 1917, is a six-footer
from Trundle. An exceptionally long reach,
keen eyesight and mighty smashing have been
the chief factors of his success. Ilis win-
ning of the final against .J. Logan (6-0, 6-2)
was meteoric.- With Baker, Anderson also shared
the open doubles, and in the Country v. City the
same pair were “even” with Peach and Jordan
(2-6, 6-4). Anderson, who won the N.S.W. singles
championship in ’l4, is a 23-year-old limb of a fine
Burwood family of half a dozen athletes.
Take sport too seriously in Australia, do
we? Well, perhaps; but listen: “The ground long
before the game began was a sight which held
spectators spellbound. No proud Roman Emperor
ever looked down at such a gathering as this; no
spectacle of the kind, perhaps, has ever rivalled it
for enthusiasm and grandeur. The human eye balked
in attempts at gathering in the thousands and thou-
sands of tiny human faces which appeared like a
myriad of dots around the arena. The great ex-
panse of black w-as illuminated only by blue and
crimson flags and the occasional splash of color from
a hat or gown. The crowd took the city by storm
and. jambed its hotels and crowded its streets.
Visitors sat on the kerbstones and on the doorsteps
of houses and ate their basket lunches, for the city
could not hope to feed them all. It didn’t matter
how much you were worth or what your social
standing—everybody was on an equal footing.” It
is only part of an account of the Yale-Harvard foot-
ball match printed by the N’York Tmus (26/11/’l6).
\ ale won after a devastating struggle, and the yells
and howls and dances and fireworks that followed
take several columns to describe. It all finished up
with the mighty assemblage standing with bared
heads and singing “Bulldog, bulldog, bow, wow,
wow. ’ It was “great, by gum”—especially the final
wow!”
* * * *
Arthur M alley’s 11 wickets for 133 runs
for Balmain against North Sydney in the just-con-
CORDON
CAMPBELL
(S.A.), just
awarded the
Military Cross for
bravery at Pozieres.
He represented
S.A. at cricket and
lacrosse , and had
been chosen to
manage the Aus-
tralian XI. in S.
Africa just, before
the tear happened.
elucl e d premiership
cricket round suggests
that the young man has
found his mislaid
punch. Last season
he knocked all records
endways by taking 102
wickets at an average
of 14.04 —the most
bountiful harvest of
wickets in Sydney pre-
miership cricket. In
spare moments Mailey
is a black-and-white
artist who caricatures
batsmen tangled up
over a leg-break.
“Up Stage” : We were very sick of Da,sh-
leigh, our leading - man. He was a superior person
who brought to this country some mediocre talent
and a most perfect system of cadge. Within two
months everybody in the theatre had become his
creditor. The suspense grew unbearable when Dash-
leigh seized one’s lapels and loftily requested “an
oyahdraft, dear boy,” which left the actors muttering
vague excuses. The breaking-point was reached when,
with tears in his voice, be cornered the comedian
and demanded (“matter of life an’ death, ol’
chappie”) £2O. It took three whiskies to bring the
comic man round ; then we advised Dashleigh to
interview Hill Screwitt, who kept the corner pub.
The actors had never noticed Bill in a generous mood,
but told Dashleigh to put it on him hard —“he’d
come at it like a bird.” Throwing - down a borrowed
coin he asked Bill to join him. “Bill, ol’ chap,” he
gulped, “could you let me have 20?” Bill finished
his drink, and feeling under the bar-counter produced
his favorite cue. “Twenty in a hundred?” he re-
plied, leading the way to the billiard-room.
“Oert’nlv !”
* * * *
“Alfonso”: The Bulletin sports who
have experienced trouble in removing obstructions in
firearms might try the following method. Fill that
part of the barrel between the obstruction and the
breech with water. Insert a cartridge with bullet
removed ; then fire, but take care the powder doesn’t
get wet. I have seen several obstinate obstacles re-
moved thus without any ill-effects. Have never tried
it on a shotgun though. Has anyone?
“Montalex” : The chief trouble about blow-
ing obstructions out of firearms is that the method
that will succeed in one case will cause smash in
another. I have known a fired cartridge drive an
obstinate rag-olug out of a Marlin barrel without any
apparent damage, and I have seen a Remington barrel
shattered by a similar proceeding. I have an idea.
that the plug’s position in the bore is an important
factor. From near the breech it can often be safely
driven out, but a block near the muzzle nearly, always
spells explosion.
E. M. Fisher, a once well-known bowler
in Sydney University first-grade eleven, has been
pinned on to a Military Cross. He graduated in
medicine two years ago, and then left for the Front
with the A.M.O. He graduated in warfare at Anzae,
went through with honors at France, and now he is
studying what it. feels like to be a patient in a
hospital in London.
“Albatross” : Above all things the Filipino
loves his fighting cock, and will back his favorite
bird’s chances in the cockpit to his last peso. In the
Isle de Luzon it is common, especially on Sunday
mornings, to see groups scattered about, talking
excitedly and gesticulating; each person carrying a
fancied fowl under his arm. Years ago, while I was
in port, a Yankee ship put into Port Nariveles to
effect repairs after a typhoon. The second mate, a
hard-case “down-easter,” used to take the boat
ashore daily for fresh provisions, and during one of
his trips he witnessed a cock-fight. Astonished
at the huge sums of money that changed hands,
he determined to make a few dollars on his own
account. He had, he told the spoits, a bird on
board the ship that would “lick creation,” and
finally made a match to fight the champion shore
bird for 400 Spanish dollars a side. When the
second mate got on board he cut a large comb out
of leather and painted it bright vermilion, and fast-
ened it to his bird’s head to make it look more for-
midable ; then with the assistance of the Russian
Finn ship’s carpenter he attached two bayonet points
to its legs for spurs. Before the engagement in a
fowl fight it is customary in the Philinuines for the
respective owners of the competitors to hold their
bird under one arm and let them peck at each other
to “bring them on.” The second mate’s bird did not
seem to be taking much interest in the preliminary
proceedings on the day of the match ; but the Filipino
bird kept peck-pecking away at the Yankee bird,
who seemed not to resent it. All of a sudden George
Washington opened his mouth and bit about a pound
and a half of meat out of the other fowl, spoiling it
so completely that it had to be reinforced. When
reinforcements arrived they decided to cut the pre-
liminary out; so the combatants were placed facing
each other in the pit. The newcomer started tin-
offensive instanter, side-stepping, shadow-sparring and
putting on all sorts of guiver; but the Yankee just sat
on his haunches, so to speak, with eyes half-closed,
dreaming of the old folks at home. Wondering what
manner of bird was this the Filipino warrior stalked
slowly up and gave it a sharp peck on the back of
the head. The result was disastrous. George Wash-
ington, with apparently no effort, bit his opponent’s
head clean off. The spectators were satisfied, and
particularly the owner of the defeated birds, though
he paid up the dollars with a bad grace. Picking
up his undamaged warrior the second mate walked
down to the boat, followed by a crowd of reverent
worshipners—silent ■ and flabbergasted. Arrived on
hoard the second mate gave his bird a good feed of
meat, after removing its unholy trappings. “Guess,
Sam,” said he to his pet, “you’ve again proved to-dav
that nothing on earth can lick the American bird-o’-
freedom.” Which was perfectly right under the
circumstances. The bird was a Rocky Mountain eagle!
* * * *
“S.Tt.”: Walking, is it? (B. 11/1/’17.)
Well, about 1870 my dad walked from
Christchurch (M.L.) *to Hokitika on the West
Coast in 24 days.- The distance is 163
miles. Ho had missed the coach and desired
to keep an appointment to run on New Year’s Day
at a sports meeting at the old Montezuma cattle-
yards. He had been backed in the mile race by a
friend and wanted to save the friend’s cash. He
arrived at mid-day, refreshed himself with a. bathe
in the lagoon, and won five events in the afternoon,
viz., the high jump, broad jump, mile run, putting
the 161 b. stone and throwing the 161 b. hammer. AH
this is chronicled in the files of the Hokitika papers
of the day.
* * , * *
“Wal”: Those mates with “Carfax” (B.
11/I/’IY) on the 40-miles walk he sings a. song
about must have been go'-slowers or sufferers from
ago or wicked living or something; hut as he says
they had five, feeds on the trip, it was most likely
weight, not distance, that settled ’em. There are
about 10,719 Billjims in N. S. Wales who could
trot over 40 miles in 24 hours on about two fills of
the pipe.
■ * * * *
“Pick”: At Bega (N.S.W.) some years
ago a bank manager named Ford regularly ever'-
half-holiday took a constitutional of from 25 to 40
miles. When Central Tiiba and Cobargo, further
north, had such a football enmity that each club
refused to submit to the arbitration of any local
referee, they requisitioned the services of Ford. Ib
walked to Cobargo, umpired the disturbance and
walked home"again the same afternoon. The dis-'
tance between Bega and Cobargo is 25 miles. Dunn>
how far he travelled during the 80 minutes’ dust-up
but I know-that he was always thereabouts, hecars-
I was one who bullocked among the forwards of
the -victorious Central Tilbns.
“Norbell” : Talking of a good day's walk
•Tim Webb, a Bulletin bard, now and for years pas!
lazing at Majorca, Spain, was then on tlie_ Bendigo
Evening. Mail, and he and 1 started from the Golden
City one Sunday morning to leg it to Melbourne. W <■
got to Kvneton, 42 miles off, that evening. Nexl
day we hit Diggers’ Rest, 33 miles further on, and on
Tuesday we finished the 1(M) miles’ tramp at the
G.P.O. at 2 p.m. Our swags comprised only a tooth-
brush and an auxiliary pair of socks. We didn’t
train for the- sprint, yet we didn’t muster a blister
between us.


LEARN HOW TO DEFEND YOURSELF
mi
r
TO-DAY
NOW!
The fear of getting a thrashing prevents many a man from asserting
his manliness when the occasion for doing so arises.
Have YOU the necessary confidence in your ability to take your own
part in the world —to assert your manliness the moment you should be
called upon to do so ?
A knowledge of Boxing, such as I impart to you through my course
of Postal Instruction, will give you confidence in yourself, and ability
to deliver a sound thrashing to any agg’ressive fellow who may cross
your path.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable move in scientific boxing.
Write TO-DAY 'for my interesting Booklet, “SCIEN-
TIFIC BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which describes mv
methods, terms, etc. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
571 Belmont Buildings
SYDNEY.
You Will Enjoy
Club Royal “Cabinets”
—if you like a mild and fine-flavored
cigar, with a delightful aroma.
They are made from the finest Havana
leaf, and are exceptional value. They
are a particularly good smoke, and will
satisfy even the most critical taste.
In Handsome Cedar Cabinets of 50,
20/-
Postage on 50 : N.S.W., 9rl.
Inter-State, 1/2.
Sample Packet of Five, post free,
2/6.
Write for a Free Copy of my Illustrated
Catalog. It will interest all smokers.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HH
SHELL-
BENZINE
SHELL'-
SHIU
INZINE-
Luza
I
SHELL
BENZINE^
PATOW
60.3 5
Find the Wonder Places
the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track Go touring on
SmUm
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue " O " with Pleasure,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
The Bulletin
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
safeguard your health
ptXColtis Brownes
CWorodywc
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, lIS, 8/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
Everybody Admires
the fine style, perfect fit and high quality of
RICHEY SHOES.
We illustrate a Choice Willow Calf Lace
Root, Linen Lined, close and medium welts,
perforated golosh and lace face.
IN BLACK OR TAN—BOOTS OR SHOES.
Price 21(- and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
The Bulletin
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
-is m M»
r.-.'-'-vs. **i
■*?'••. —-
salsa
I ssig& .>0- mm mm k
WgSSmM
wf Sms
!& jMSasf
V ....
ass
Pi
WP
SsßSii®
IMlill
11
mmz
m
J
m
■m
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
Price 2/6 bottle
**f\ e
K
Vi
rs
IT.
I'i
m \
M
ir:
.-"i-Ti
i
i£S
IvA
%
>
saw®
: ■•■
11
■i
»i
:
mm
a
ftiSiliS*!
-
ms
Hi
lJ
1.
.
wm
if.
I
I.
:
a H ■
I- 1 : !
. i
I
k :.-
■
Mf
fl
%vl
Post Your Order
to us for your Summer
Underwear now! We
have every class of tex-
ture in the size and at
tjie price you want
to pay. All Garments
are guaranteed' against
shrinkage, and we pay
freight.
India Gauze
Underwear.
Delightfully Light and Cool. Does much to
combat the discomforts resulting from exces-
sive perspiration. Washes easily and per-
fectly. Singlets or Pants 4/6.
Spun Silk
Underwear.
The Limit of Underwear Luxury. Gives
wonderful wear. Beautifully Soft, Light and
Wholesome. Singlets (Men’s): 10/6; 0.5.,
11/6. Pants (Men's), 13/6; 0.5., 14/6.
“Aertex”
Underwear.
Its Cellular Construction results in speedy
absorption of moisture and as speedy evapora-
tion. Keeps the skin at an even temperature.
Hygienic, cool, comfortable, and gives great
service. Singlets or pants from 4/-
Owr catalog is post free —write for your copy
to-day.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.
Flinders Street
Melbourne


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
The Bulletin
CARTERS
fITTLE
IVER
I PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price,
GENUINE must bear signature
The Bulletin
An Obstinate
Case of . . .
GOITRE
Goitre sufferers will be interested in
this letter—a lady writes: “I am more
than pleased to he able to tell you that
since using your treatment my neck
has gone down five inches.”
Doig’s Goitre Treatment seldom fails
to perceptibly reduce the swelling
within two or three weeks. Easy to
take. Over 3000 successes to its credit.
Full information Pott Free on application to
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD.
Manufacturing Client i»ts
197>|? Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HOTEL
The Bulletin
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart Of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
'A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
will restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a
few days’ time . merely by the application
of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from
your chemist two ounces of tammalite con-
centrate and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum.- Apply this to the hair a few times
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradu-
ally darkening to the desired shade. The
lotion is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and
does not injure the hair in any way. [1
Ta It
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
The Bulletin
Nature never intended
a man to be clean-
s h liven. The
Moustache is a man’s
natural adornment.
Why not encourage
its growth by the
aid of CAPIL-
LARINE —a genuine
Moustache grower
which has never been known to fail ?
Price 10/6 Jar—Post Free.
Craig 8 Aitken,
Established over 30 years.
m
The Bulletin
KING OF ALL METAL POLISHES
Keeps automobile fittings new and makes
all metals a pleasure to lookat. The only
safe polish for aluminum. Made of the
finest oils—no acid or ammonia used.
Does the work quickly and gives a last-
ing polish. Sold in two size cans by all
Grocery, Hardware and Drug Stores,
book for the Photo on Can
TkCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9et. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20 /- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
r
l *
I'W.
0
//
id Hii»
ID Lin*
'Y&rdleys
Shaving Stick
The Stickm the Glass Case
The Secret of a
Comfortable Shave
The Yardley lather, flat, oint-
ment like, 11011-drying, is Alylv
WORKING all the time. It
soothes the skin, softens the
beard and lubricates the razor.
This good BRITISH Soap is
packed in a glass case, by which
you may know it.
London,
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building- 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
l’or all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
O-
-1
M
BEAUTY SECRETS
REVEALEP.
By “MIMOSA.”
HAIR CULTURE.
DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
1 1 there is really no need to have poor or
impoverished hair if a few commonsense
rules are observed. First of all, hair tonics
must be freshly-made in order to obtain the
best results, and thousands of women, and
men, top, are now making up their own
lotions with most satisfactory • results. For
this purpose they obtain from the chemist’s
one ounce of boranium and mix this with
\ pint of bay rum, quite a simple formula,
and according to all accounts remarkably
effective. This simple home-made lotion
quickly removes all dandruff, and creates a
growth of new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman. One word
in conclusion. Do not experiment with
your hair, long suffering though it may be.
Nature will surely revolt if you continue
to subject the hair and scalp to all kinds
of fanciful treatments. Employ a tonic by
all means if such is required, but having
found a satisfactory one use no other.
GOOD SHAMPOO IMPORTANT.
THE hair should be allowed to breathe,
and the greasy film around each strand
1 must be removed with a mild non-
alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be tabooed.
The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stal-
lax granules in a cup of hot water. It
stimulates the scalp to healthy action, and
at the same time leaves the hair in that
soft, fluffy condition so much admired. Any
chemist can supply you with an original
packet of stallax, sufficient to make twenty-
five or thirty shampoos.
MAGIC FOR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
IT is astounding the number of women
who suffer from unsightly growths of
hair on the face, and it will come as a
piece of good news to know that there is a
simple substance, known as powdered phe-
minol, which will remove it immediately
and permanently. Mix a small quantity
into a thin paste with a little water, and
apply to the objectional growths. In two
minutes all trace of the hair will have
entirely vanished, and your skin will be as
soft nnd smooth as a child’s.
RENEWING COMPLEXIONS.
HE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite
skin is now within her reach, providing she
has the good sense to stop using cheap made-
up preparations and adopt what has now
become known as the mercolised-wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that are the envy
of all their friends, and, as is usually the
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now
been verified, and is known as mercolised
wax. Inquiry at several chemists’ shops
have resulted in ascertaining that this sub-
stance has been known to the select few for
some years as a complexion beautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that it has been
used to any extent for this purpose. It was
also explained how mercolised wax renews
the complexion, but as this is rather tech-
nical it is not proposed to repeat it here. It
will be sufficient to say that through some
peculiar action the wax absorbs the dead
and discolored outer cuticle, revealing the
fresh young complexion which every woman
has underneath. The process occupies about
ten days, and the change is so gradual and
imperceptible that no discomfort whatever
is caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
BLACKHEADS FLY AWAY.
A PRACTICALLY instantaneous remedy
for blackheads, greasy skins and
enlarged pores, recently discovered, is
now coming into general use in the boudoir.
It is very simple, harmless and pleasant.
Drop a stymol tablet, obtained at the
chemist’s, in a tumbler full of hot water.
After the effervescence has subsided bathe
the face .in the liquid, using a small sponge
or soft cloth. In a few minutes dry the
face and the offensive blackheads will come
right off on the towel. Also the large oily
pores immediately close up and efface them-
selves naturally. The greasiness disappears
and the skin is left smooth, soft and cool.
This simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days to
ensure the permanence of the result.
"Melb” : For “The House that Jack Built’’
panto, the management announces that all
the clothes were locally made. Creditable,
hut see what the co-operative management
did' in 1869. Said management was formed,
in 18(37, of Lambert, Chas. Vincent, Har-
wood, Stewart, Bellair and Hennings. Let
us do something literary, artistic and patri-
otic,” said they. So they gave Akhurst (1
believe), who had been Morning Herald
sub-editor, £lOO to write the book. Lhe
House was Melbourne, and Jack, imperson-
ated by Harwood, was Johnny Fawkner.
There was something in that show to give a
glow! Night after night audiences sat en-
tranced before Henning’s magnificent pano-
rama of Melbourne history, beginning with
Fawkner’s schooner, the Knterprise, sailing
up the Yarra at a point opposite where the
Custom House now stands.
“1.A.K.” : It may be true, as "Ike Pag-
liacci” says (B. 4/1/T7), that, the Fullers
started a waxworks .show in M.L. between
30 and 40 years ago. But their meteoric rise
is of much more recent date. I have not yet
been 30 years in Australia, and when 1
arrived Fuller the elder was singing at
thruppenny pops, in Melbourne Temperance
Hall.
Item from the Front: “Killed in action
in France, October 1.2, Captain Amory Sulli-
van. son of Amory Sullivan, of Paddington,
and grandson of the late Barry Sullivan, oi
Brighton, England, aged 34 years.” The
elder Amory Sullivan was agent and right-
hand man for his father while the latter had
his historic lease of the old Theatre Iloyal,
Melbourne, in the ‘(3o's. There is a fine
monument to the memory of the tragedian in
the cemetery at Glasnevin, near Dublin.
“O. Blin” : “The Woman,” staged by the
Williamson firm at Melbourne Royal,
reached Australia in movie form a few weeks
back. The picture lias the advantage over
the play in cleverly visualising flu; scene in
the Yankee House of Reps, where the Hon.
Jim Blake’s followers industriously stone-
wall while Jim tries to blackmail the Hon.
Matthew Standish into withdrawing his
deadly legislation. On the other hand, the
local version beats the film in characterisa-
tion. Apart from the superiority of living
people and the spoken word over flitting
shadows and pantomime, the Australian
mummers are physically more pleasing than
the Amurkan east. Gwen Burroughs, for
one, is a more alluring sinner than the
Grace of the picture, who looks like a
disappointed school-marm running to seed.
The Freddie Shipmans have left Aus-
tralia bound for a tour of Japan, China.
India and the Straits Settlements. They
are taking their prize - canary, Pauline
Bindley, and it is probable that the lovely
Paul Dufault will also be found in their
vicinity. The object of the Shipman mission
is not stated, but presumably Paul and
Pauline are going to astonish our tinted
brethren.
The “principal girl” of the panto, drops a
line of protest against a recent allegation
that her front name, Gretclien, was “merely
adopted as a suitable companion to Yates.”
Gretchen is the name she bore aw r ay from
the baptismal font, says the sprightly young
lady. Her godfathers and godmothers had
no idea of the coming German menace when
they gave her that name. If • she
here and now had the choosing of
something to go nicely with Yates
she would probably select Yarra. The
wonder is that no Melbourne girls have been
named after their native city’s poor apology
for a sparkling stream. It means “flowing,”
and it sounds saucy. Yarra Yates—Yarra
York or Young! Why didn’t our Florence’s
parents think of Yarra for her when she
started to be Young?
Irene Dillon, the pert little Australian
comedian and dancer who used to be in
Williamson pantos., has since sufficiently
enlarged to play principal boys without feel-
ing small. When the last mail left she was
wearing the tights of the chief lad in a
London extravaganza, and was making a
great success of the job. Irene is now the
wife of one Rostock, of New York, and
owns a bright little daughter who promises
to repeat her mammsl’s legsome energy.
Australian pianist Willie Murdock was at
the keyboard when Clara Butt gave her re-
cent concert in London. Half the takings
went to put a new ham-bone in the pot of
artists suffering from the war.
“S.S.”: Picked up in Melbourne Paddy’s
Market on a recent Friday evening. “Big
mouth? Struth, her mouth’s so big she can
sing and accompany herself on the mouth
organ!”
“F.N.T.”: The frankest picture-play
poster seen in Melbourne of recent years is
a hoarding advt. of “The Common Law.” It
depicts a lady, physically imperfect and of
no particular facial charm, gloomily emerg-
ing into the open from behind a pair of
drab curtains, which are the only clothing in
the painful scene. Some time ago a made-
in-Australia shirt was advertised by a poster
showing an aboriginal clad in a wide grin
and one of the patriotic garments. The
Society for the Prevention of That Sort of
Poster soon got busy and had pants put on
black brother. But the imported picture-
play is a holy thing compared with an Aus-
tralian shirt, and interference with its advts.
is a matter which no one in authority would
lightly undertake.
DISSATISFIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I go out to a picture show
At least one night a week,
And as the people come and go
Upon the hoarding, friend and foe,
I wish that they could speak.
1 go one evening to the play—
Whatever kind may come—
And as the actor's say their say
In comic or in tr. gic way,
I wish that they were dumb !
VICTORIA.
S.S.


ft
m
w
m
m
i
£
m
M
m
A
i
F
si
F!
: s
§2S;
7F;-«s^
s-j
lS**as
sg=
%
>
%
:5^
F mJk
zzm.
Showrooms :
333 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
thurst, Orange. Listnore. Newcastle. Goulburn and Wagga.
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs,
lasmama : Williams Bros. Hobart. Maples. Launceston.
South Australia : John Evans. Ltd.. Adelaide.
IT IS A BEALE KALCPHQNE-
tfie musicaf instrument wfiiefi recreates
tfie tinest efforts oft fioAidrlds Best
Entertainers. Tfie fuffriefi tone ripples
fortfi in a flood ofmefody as artistic
andas perfect as tfioudfi tfie actual per-
former were in tfie room.
Abu wifi enjoy fieann(s your favourite
artist on tfie ‘‘BEALE KALOPHGNE.
Made in many styles.
I’seale
L J &C? LTP
333 George St Sydney
Factory :
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST„ ANNANDALE.
Queensland . 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane
Kent Street. Maryborough. Flinders Street. Townsville.
RockhamDton. Sydney Street. Mackay.
Cairns.


?
ft
n
M
*-w
Nervousness
When a sudden
fright makes you
jump or drop
things it is a sign
that the nerves
are unstrung and
probably the
whole system
run down. This
condition may. be induced by too much work,
insufficient sleep, mental worries, an injury, or
the abuse of alcohol. As a preliminary, there
miy be pains in the head, irritability, sleepless-
ness, general indisposition, headache, vomiting
and constipation.
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at once braces and steadies the nerves, irritation
departs, sleep and restful nights follow, and in
a very short time the whole system is restored
to a normal condition. Fishers Phospherine is
also taken for Backache, Rheumatism, &c. It
is good for indigestion. All chemists and stores
1/- per Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2 6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing: Chemists,
337 GEORCE BTREET, BVPNEY, N.S.W. rs o j>l
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
J
*
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and lor all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of onr Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON U CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VARICOSE VEINS,
WEAK LEGS AND JOINTS.
THE VAROX SUPPORT is an Entirely
New Method of dealing with Varicose
Veins and any Leg Weakness. Instant
Relief is obtained, together with Perfect
Ease and Comfort.
The Bulletin
It is a laced
appliance,
which gives
equality of
pressure at
every point,
and can be
regulated
to the com-
fort of
wearer. It
always
keeps in po-
sition, can
b e easily
put on and
taken off.
The Bulletin
Will last for years.
Catalogue and Self-Measurement Chart
Posted Free on Application.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You’ll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
4
A )
4 V.
un*
SEND FOR CATALOG OF SADDLERY.
A STOCKWHIP
TO BE PROUD OF
One of Hodgson’s Make .
These Splendid Whips are All
Kangaroo. Xo sheepskin or inferior
leather used inside them.
LIFE-LIKE FALL.
Oft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. 10ft.
12 plait 10/6 12/6 13 6 15/6 18i6
16 plait 13/6 15/6 17/- 18/6 20/-
20 plait 16/6 18/6 20/- 21/6 22/6
Plaited Handles to Match.
16 plait, 12/6; 20 plait, 14/6;
32 plait, 16/6.
POST FREE FOR CASH.
Walther U Stevenson Ltd.
393 George St.
32 Hunter St.
Sydney
REMeRKaBLEDISeoVERY
GREY HAIR
' JAv>s Mary Q\)apir)at) restores fyer Hair
J fo its ovtgiV)a\ colour, after \)criit)g
Beet) corppletelLf Gretj for 8 tjears.
fl SIMPLE, HARMLESS METHOD, WHICH
eaN BE USED IN ONES OWN aome
WITA COMPLETE SUCCESS,
2
? m
m
% ;
A\dfy K.Qjaprrjap at age of 27.) (A\rS A\a
ry K.G)apn?ar) at tfyepfesept damage 35.)
Tfyis photograph stjows \) er *
8 YEARS YOUNGER..
Tl)is pbotocjifcipb shows Ijer
8 YEARS OLDER.
MY APPEARANCE TO DAY IS A DELIGHT TO MYSELF ,
AND A SURPRISE TO MY FRIENDS.
!, who was once Grey Haired, and belong to a
prematurely grey-haired family, address the readers
of this paper, in particular, persons who have tried
sundry widely advised preparations for Grey Hair
and have been disappointed with the results. I do
not wish to criticise these remedies, but users of my
preparation have the firm assurance that IT WILL
DO WHAT IT CLAIMS TO DO. The colour
creating cells of the hair, which have hitherto been
dormant, become revitalised under the influence of
my Specific, and they commence to produce fresh
pigment and the same shade as in earlier years.
The change comes about GRADUALLY, SURELY
and NATURALLY, the improvement is remarkable.
After a few days’ application the hair becomes
richer in colour and the transformation increases
in strength and intensity until the hair is once again
THE SHADE OF YOUTH. Six weeks’ treatment
changed my appearance from that of a prematurely
aged woman and gave me back the hair ol my
girlish days to the astonishment of myself and the
surprise of my friends. Since I have introduced my
preparation to public notice numerous people of
both sexes and of all classes, who I only know
through my extensive correspondence have written
to me acknowledging the same MARVELLOUS
EFEICACY of this formula, which they say is unlike
anything they have hitherto tried. It was through
FREECOUPON
Cut out this Coupon to-day and post, with your
name and address, and enclose two stamps, to Mrs.
Mary K. Chapman, Suite 56, Falmouth Chambers,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney (just below G.P.0.), when
complete instructions to restore Grey Hair to its
natural color and beauty of youth will be sent by
return of post, under plain, sealed cover.
Name ..
Address
my own greyness that I came into possession of this
wonderful remedy, the fruit of the work of a Scien-
tist who had made the CHEMISTRY OF THE
HAIR the favourite hobby Study (not for money-
making motives) of his leisure hours, and amidst
the Legions of Grey Hair Preparations, it is the one
genuine prescription that RESTORES THE COLOR
BY A NATURAL PROCESS. Many, in fadt the
great majority, of Grey Hair preparations eventually
ruin the hair, but my remedy is ABSOLUTELY
HARMLESS and will help develop a Strong and
beautiful growth of hair.
I wish every grey haired man and woman who
reads this announcement to try my remedy, and I
offer a reward of £lOO if this Guaranteed Genuine
Preparation can be proved not to have restored grey
hair to Original, Natural Colour. My Genuine
Specific opens up a sure avenue of escape from the
grave disadvantages of grey hair, in fait you need
not remain grey another week if you make up your
mind to give my preparation a fair trial. If you
have in the past been disappointed by trying this,
that and the other thing, do not be discouraged but
write or call to-day. Simply write your name and
address plainly on the coupon below. State whether
Mr., Mrs. or Miss and enclose 2 stamps for postage,
and I will send you in a plain sealed cover, complete
instructions.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character ) Kill he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken l'e contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Star: Wrong in one respect, at any rate.
V verdict with a farthing damages doesn t necessarily
carry costs. In fact, in some matters, it expressly
doesn’t A.P.V.: There’s a ton weight of expert
reports on the subject of harnessing the Yarra; and
it isn’t a bad time to dig up some of them. . •
No use producing a stringy-bark in answer to a chal-
lenge for cypress pine... .T.R.P.: Too long and too
late J.F.D.: Send us a good photograph of the
Devil and we’ll print it —if the Devil is being talked
about at the moment. .. .J.F.M.: Yarn commits the
unpardonable sin of being du11....8.8. (M.L ) : Its
this way. Typed lines jambed so close together have
to be sent first, to the typist, and that means delay,
and often something else steps in ahead and the
thing that was delayed is crowded out. The man
who jambs his typed lines so that they can’t be sub-
edited in the original MS. reduces their chances of
acceptance by 20 per cent, at leajst ... .11.F.W .: No
use... .W.P.S.: “Messengers” don’t quite arrive....
A. 11.: Not bad verse, but gets nowhere 1.5. G.:
Starts well, but is without point. .. .H.K.MeD.: \ou
haven’t the art of condensation. “Actor” held ■ for
inquest G.L.L.: No good. .. . Lyttle: All said
better before J.F.McM.: Tedious stufT going a
long way round to 1 say next-to-nothiug. .. . M.R.S.:
Bitterly pathetic. You should be able to do some-
thing with such things elsewhere.... Mac: Sorry;
verse won’t d 0... .L.W.N.: Tired of that hard-worked
idea... ..T. Tj.lt.: Pan seems a prosy sort of person,
but the boundary-rider might be a London footman.
What’s the use of half a yarn, anyhow?. .. .Mar-
guerite: No use. Sorry this paper should help in
“colonising” you. We’d prefer to make you an Aus-
tralian... .Learner: Why dish up slops like “lovely
rays”?. .. .W.G.M.: “Thor,” “saw,” “jaw”! Learn
to rhyme. .. .J.0.G.: You have a long way still to
travel... .The Corp: No g00d... . A. 8.: Horrible....
Lanark: Too little in it... .E. 0.: “Blackbird’s”
misses.... A Reader: Glad you were shocked at
“Trench Gospel.” A person who felt as you say
you did about it must either be a very dull sort of
ass or a smug pietist who hasn’t yet discovered
there is a war 0n... .C.L.G.: Hideous libel without
point... .W.T.D.: Not our style. .. . A.T.D.: “Bugle-
call” nicely done, but not for us. . . .P.H.C.: Not
quite up. . . .M.A.: No use. .. .Rabbit: Too slight. . . .
Danstewer: Won’t d0..;.M.E.: Aon had an idea in
those “Legs,” but workmanship too crude
E.M.T.: Pleasing, but verse bumps too much....
E.N.G.P.: Not enough force lean: Commonplace
.and very uneven. ... W.D.W.: Conventional island
yarn E.M.C.: Very lame verses Six and
Eight: Dill you try to make it dull?. .. .N.A.E.:
You’ll have to learn to take some pains... .J.T.S.:
Heavy fooling. ... P.F.: Fine anarchical flavor about
the finish:—
And then weel hoist the Hat
and jump up on the fat
Yes. weel spend His rotten Money
And, then weel dwell in peace on Honey.
. ...L.W.: The reconstructed “Lady” has lost none
of her thrill... .W. .1.11.: Take your “endeavors”
away if you fancy they rhyme with “feathers”....
A. Meek Cus. : They’re damaged all right. .. .A.D.C.:
A fine record, but poor veYse. .. . Macque: It’s all
right if you could make it rhyme and scan in addi-
tion to correcting the grammar and putting in some
ideas. .. . A.T.M.W.: If you're not a “worldling,”
what are you? Are you a strayed heavenling or a
Tophetling gone good ?!'. . . . J.R. : Well, have it your
own' way:—■
I’d have you to know, I’m a hardened old cuss,
Who often says, “Well, I’ll be damned.”
And sometimes I fear that on leaving this sphere
Heav’n’s gate in my face will be slammed.
So now I must straightaway come to the point,
(For 1 am a snake, double-fanged).
If given my pick, I would vote for Old Nick.
I’d rather lie damned than be hanged.
. ...M.P.A.: Yarn too obvious. Now, if the “fashion
plate” had won there might have been meat in it.
. ...Sivad: Handwriting suspected of criminal in-
tent. As far as your yarn can be read it seems slush.
. ...A.G.J.: N 0... . W 11. I!.: If you couldn’t see
more than that at the corner, why bother to write
about it?....The Dosser: “A Night in the Domain”
makes us creep closer under the mosquito curtains: —
’Owl, veh cold wind, ’owl.
I ’ear yell groanin’ in the trees ;
Yell crool penetratin’ breeze,
Yeh judgin’ by me tremblin’ knees
■ I’m goin’ to sky the towel;
But I’m a bloke that’s ’ard ter please,
An’ sech a cow ter growl.
.. . .S.L.: Said better before. . . .R.E,F.H.: Almost
a good but a poor story.... Rioli: John got
drunk and then drunk again. Nineteen pages, and
infamous handwriting at that....N.: Advice v to
America noted. Verse p00r....JM.: Nothing in it.
.. . .R.H.C.: “Go slow” goes too slow. The small
idea isn’t worth 11 stanzas. ... E.M.E.: Faded verse.
....A.X.L.E : “Australian Fauna” stirs an unusual
string:—
Hid ’mid Eucalyptus blossom
Seek Australia’s pouched Opossum,
And (hat furry soft affair
Called Koala, Native Bear.
On creek bank see that curious cuss
Ornithorhyncus Platypus.
From grassy seat ’tis best to rid the
Spring Porcupine Echidna,
Long-legged gaunt forbidding Dingo
No old-maid’s choice for Bobby Bingo.
. ...R.M.8.: Pleasing but slight.... R.N.C.: Your
“Dream People” amount to nothing. ... G.R.H.:
Some atmosphere, but. not up....J.T.: If the origi-
nal is as bad as your "translation it must be pretty
awful. . . .Drysdale: Rotten verse. . . .A-woman-who’s-
seen: Not up.... S.A.M.: It’s crude all right....
R.M.: No, it won’t do. . . .W.J.11.: Feeble. And
what a fist!.... D.C.T.: Send your next attempt
when you are five years less confident.... Chick:
Clever, but fails.... Gendarme: Very lumpy....
GI.D.: Not well enough done, but worth doing....
11. W.: Metre out from the third line... . W.J.: “Love
Survives” and “Prayer” are poor stuff... .M.li.:
Commonplace. Why do first attempters always drag-
in the vampire? Have you ever met the beast or
seen him “flaying the land” ?... .Lyttle: N 0....
Iraq: Dreary tack.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.J.D.: Poor collection of scratches. . . .Stanthorpe:
Call when you’re down and explain the joke... .J.F.:
Nothing in the. joke; less in the drawing... .J.H.:
Spdlceshave the bumps off your figures... .G. D.
Mac.: But where’s the drawing ?.... W.11.P.: And
the joke?... .Zenda: The Bulletin is not a Paris
fashion journal... .Jos. T. II.: Why resurrect the
thing? It never was humorous.... I. Again: Still
only a second-class amateur... .R.A.K.: Not up....
Massah K.: Pawnshop gag second-hand.... G.B. and
Geo. H. T.: There is a corpse in the back lane. The
man brought us a pun.


We
Offer
tHe
New
Gossard
Cor
for
Autumn and Winter
1917
IN these new models our designers have
painted the wings of the butterfly - the
Autumn and Winter Gossards are more
beautiful than ever.
A new note in design —attained after months
of careful study —has accentuated the beauty
of the far-famed Gossard back and added a
subtle “feel” that will delight you.
When women of fashion the world over choose
Gossards ; when leading couturiers use them
as the foundation for their gowns; when famous
addresses noted for their exquisite dressing
prefer them to all other corsets —then the
Gossard corset should receive your most
careful consideration.
The illustration is an unretouched photograph
of the Normal Ideal Figure correctly corseted
in a Gossard corset. It is possible for you to
have as charming a figure, just as youthful,
just as free from restraint.
If you want comfort, wearing service, fitting*
service and style that are alone in their com-
pleteness, then select a Gossard at your
favorite store or shop.
Ask for living-model booklet, profusely illus-
trated, containing a complete list of all the
Gossards for your figure type.
A fitting by an expert Corsetiere involves no obligation.
Gossard Corsets are supplied to Women
of Australia and New Zealand by
Allan & Stark, Ltd.,
Brisbane, Australia.
J. Ballantyne & Co.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch, N Z.
Stafford Street, Timaru, N.Z.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd.,
298-312 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Australia.
Harry Davies Co.,
Ballarat, Australia.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd.,
King and George Streets, Sydney, Australia.
Drapery & General Importing Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd.,
Lyttelton, N.Z.
Wellington, N.Z.
Farmer & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Australia.
•James Marshall & Co.,
Adelaide, Australia.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd.,
Queen Street, Auckland, JST.Z.
Mm**#”
tm
m
-TV
*
#


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabiues-de-
i.ii.i-c. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Eor all information regarding sailing-
dates. etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Place,
_______ Sydney.
Australian Steamships Ling
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (c-iieunistancos permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MAKYBOKOUGH
BUNDABJ2RG
GLADSTONE
‘ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
mid other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
Bl'liW AH (Cargo Only).
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 20.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 24.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 27.
CAXBKRRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 81.
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 3.
MELBOURNE |
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
*Passengers only.
SOUTH.
CAN BERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 27.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Ituiiliiiiir, I’ll bile Companies, &c.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
lion. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, IC.C.M.G
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Obnbiiai, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Rrisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.( .
NEW
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian flank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED .. .. .. £1 198 679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) .. £1,197,’393
RESERVE FUND £85,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street, E.C.
DIRI'.C lORS Mark Smei,don, Esq., Chairman:
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood.
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F
Jodman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the~ Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated tinder the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
y° n ' ,5”: r ■ Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. •
Generai, Manager— lV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—l. oil don, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Qimited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. ICater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birehin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
QRANTS DRAFTS
Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS Ld'S',. .'Z
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
rnn » m\TP TJTTTWFF.N
the largest, newest, fastest AND BEST-EQUIPPED steamers trading between
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT ...
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HOXOLILU (Hawaii).
'i’HF “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the! CA
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIE.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
ANADIAN PACIFIC
GREAT LAKES.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA ANI) PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around tlie World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning h.v Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TKIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An I'n rival led Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
K.M.S, Niagara and It.M.S. Makur'a.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing' Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Bench—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
OW'
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with th
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks' Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILR & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Director! :
- £3,705,320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Fa-ithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C,
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; \V. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office —29 Thread needle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and , drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.7. PTTSSCJT7T.T PI7P\TCTT OoriP'-nl l(, mlwr
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
The Bulletin
JanMustralia
SYDNEY. * I
for pe a n n General Banking; Business p^Ppai
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 A S encies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at o°/
per annum '*/o
up to £3OO
JAMBS KELL. Deputy Governor.
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
June, 191C>
DENISO.V -MILLER, GoYeiuor
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
Vhe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Siurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects ot Sunscorch.
The Bulletin
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER service to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN. SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
I'OR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DI.UBOOLA, Friday,
Feb. 9 and Mar. 9.
IMISBANE
-UACKAY
HHVNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, Jan. 20.
MORI ALTA, Jan. 27.
rt , o Sa fl^ n n P f Sa / e ,?" itkets are interchangeable after
on a 1 J, ol;t ° f Ca i J - with other Inter-State Con,pan e
on all services subject to conditions which can be
a.ceitained on application at the Company’s Office.
O. S. Vim,Li & CO., LTD.,
Agents, C imiDGli STItEET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent l ast Passenger Steamships
‘ Zealandia,
‘ Ulimaroa,’
‘Riverina,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
“Westralia,"
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraph''.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTII & ALL NEW ZEALAND
HOIIAItT AND SYDNEY
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND
AUSTRALIAN POUTS.
POUTS,
WEST
lIUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Col ins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street,Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMPORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA-hONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
App'yO CE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. 'Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACI-lARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's ’ magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLIN'GEE,
N A MB C CCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillurhbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer.. ■' 6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on stean £4 2s. 6d.
For and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10.0C0 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers-possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should’ read the British Austrax-
a sian, (id. weekly—-an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Yustralians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Mart
V*
\
.n\
\>*\
\A«\
\ »
.V,
;■' E«
r
'■?v;
mmm
K-SsSMS*SK
B
■
IS*
3
/
m
wfe
llllil
#*fl
jJ&cii •»5 > •> V’J^ y -
•£:'< ' y it- >'A> j
y •*
y_. <
SK&SS'
.vX* ;i
*4
ippil;
Jm&p‘«^iim£i
:'-*I&BSZa I
ISM
bV
Cable Address
‘OCEDAR’
A Bright
and Cheery Home
is assured, if your ‘cleaning companion’ is
o€feM°p
[Registered in principal countries]
FLOORS free from every particle of dust,
invitingly clean and with a mirror-like
lustre, obtained almost without effort, are
the inducements the O- Cedar Polish-Mop
offers you as it invites your patronage.
O-Cedar Polish-Mops are now used in
Over Two Million Homes
Don’t scrub—it is out-of-date labour. The
modem way is to have your varnished or painted
floors, tiled hearths, woodwork on stairs and ban-
nisters, etc., kept bright and clean with an O-Cedar
Polish-Mop.
It Cleans sis it Polishes
does all the work with a single easy operation.
O-Cedar Polish-Mops (either round or triangular)
are sold in two sizes at 611 and 411 complete
—fitted with new “Handy Handle Hinge.”
All leading dealers sell them' —don’t hesitate to ask
your own dealer to demonstrate O-Cedar to you.
It is fully guaranteed to please you.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples and Prices- obtainable fr<
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
Manufactured by
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO.
Factory: CHICAGO, U. S. A.
Offices: LONDON, TORONTO, BUENOS AIRES
AVON
11
TRADE MARK I
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
«► at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
The Bulletin
Do You Suffer from CATARRH ?
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR
will cure Catarrh, Hay Fever, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Price, with Complete Treatment, only
10/-. Post Free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
Box 466,49 b Elizabeth St., Melbourne. [2
“CASH MORE”
PIGEON GUN
A new model issued by this favorite
maker just before the war. Our con-
tracts placed us right on price, and
whilst the Stock lasts you can have
the benefit of “old rates."’
No. 1194 in our catalog is a splen-
did value side clip pigeon gun with
Greener Cross bolt, full choke barrels,
2fin. chambers,, Flat file cut rib,
-J-pistcl hand, Walnut stock.
At English catalog price,
£ll.
This and many others are in our 60-page gun
catalog No. 7.
ALCOCK& PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin
DINNEFORDS
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“OINNEFORD’S’*
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout .
and Gravel. ;
— *
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
For Delicate Infants
and at weaning time, use Benger’s, because it adapts,
with scientific exactness, fresh cow’s milk to the delicate
digestion of a child.
A process of natural digestion begins as soon as you
bring Benger’s Food and fresh new milk together. As a
result, the rich food contents of both
Food
25oA.
and the milk can be fully absorbed even by weakly children.
By means of Benger’s Food nourishment is imparted easily
and quickly, and distressed infants comforted.
Beng-r’s Food is perhaps the most distinct food we have. Our Booklet describing it makes
interesting reading to thoughtful intelligent people. Copies may be obtained post free from
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S,A.) 90, Beekman St. Depdts throughout CANADA.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
m
l
p;OW;6
IF YOU
DESIRE
ii correct and distinctive style for
every ocasiou, you cannot do better
than make a point of wearing
ABBEY SHOES
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a Special. High-Grade
Patent Bal., with Perforated
Golosh and Grey Suede Legs.
Price 37 6 & 45/-
In Half-sizes, I), and E. Fittings.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW
CATALOGUE.
A B BE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
. - in
uisj&S
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached, llot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


The drink for men. Men who drink whisky wonder
why there are others who don’t. Men who drink
Thorne’s Whisky wonder why there are some who
don’t. If you’re a whisky-drinker and want real
quality-production—the choicest that is distilled in
the famous district of Glenlivet—you should call for
Thorne’s. The carefully-selected high-grade malts from
which Thorne’s is distilled give it a distinctive flavor
and delightful bouquet.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.” [2
% fP> mil///
1 / rf/*
THAN EVER
Murdoch’s “Red Spot” Sale
NOW IN FULL SWING.
An event that will cause a commotion amongst those who want to save money on Men’s
and Boys’ Clothing.
Mammoth Bargains in keeping with the reputation of the Mammoth Store.
“Red Spot” Reductions will
Ginger Up Your Purse.
iGet in touch with the Red Spot right away—silver savings available in every department.
iOur splendid Red Spot Tailoring Offers are big with money-saving possibilities—link up
your enquiries to Desk R.
For Goodness Sake—Don’t Miss This Money-saving Chance.
WRITE FOR
“RED SPOT"
CATALOGUE
and
PATTERNS
OF “RED SPOT”
SUITINGS.
DO IT NOW.
MURDOCH’S ft P L?d r !;
“ Where the Good Huts are .
SYDNEY
IN
BANANA LAND
This isn’t a bad performance. On Decem-
ber 18 5750 jumbucks were trucked at Bar-
cjildine for Goondiwindi (Q.). They
reached their destination, 1048 miles away,
on December 21, all well and only one wether
short.
The Townsville Amalgamated Society of
Carpenters refused to allow any of its mem-
bers to go to New Guinea to erect a wireless
station for Defence and other purposes unless
the pay was 255. a day ashore and afloat
and all travelling expenses thrown in. Yet
thousands of Australian unionists are work-
ing overtime for the same firm at six bob a
day. Blacklegs—one of the two lots! You
can take your pick of them.
. Petrie-terrace, a Brisbane suburb, was
recently startled by the gruesome discovery
made by a person named Nahoom, a descen l-
ant of the gent, who came down like a wolf
on the fold. Nahoom was cleaning up his
back yard, and when pulling out some rub-
bish from underneath an adjoining fruit
shop, discovered a c.urious-looking bag and
was highly horrified when a small skull
dropped to the ground. He immediately
informed the Keystone Police, and Sherlock
Holmes promptlv arrested the evidence. And
then the beautiful tragedy that the suburb
had been preparing for fell to pieces: the
find turned out to be nothing but an ape’s
bones brought from Egypt as a curio by
some crank soldier.
“Bad Australian” from S. America:—
What about mandioca as a standby for the north-
ern cockatoo? Bananaland has adopted practically
every other tropical vegetable or fruit of value, and
it is a matter of surprise to me that this one has
been missed. It is the staple food of Brazil, Para-
guay and those sections of Bolivia and Peru situated
on the watershed of the Amazon. Some of the native
tribes live almost entirely on it, boiled or roasted or
in the form of sodden damper made from the grated
or pulped root (“farinha”) after the juice has been
pressed out. This juice when diluted with water
and fermented makes a potent gloom dispeller, and
is responsible for the weirdest and most immoral
jamborees on this planet. A good mandioca crop
runs from 12 to 15 tons per acre, and in some cases
considerably more. The plant flourishes anywhere
that sugarcane, bananas, pineapples, pawpaws and
similar products succeed. The great advantage of the
vegetable over practically all other root crops is
that up to the third year it improves when left
in the ground, and is harvested entirely at the
convenience of the grower. All the Australian coastal
scrub-land north of Maryborough or Bundaberg is
eminently suited to its cultivation; and if the
Northern cocky gets busy on a patch, in 12 months’
time every animal on the selection will wear a
more contented smile.
Three or four years ago the Queensland
Pine Co. put up a plant for the manufacture
of wood-pulp for paper : making and spent
nearly £14.000 in achieving a product fully
equal (not to say superior) to the imported
pulp it was matched against, and needing
only a moderate measure of tariff support
to secure the local market. But as the in-
dustry did not have the required tarifE sup-
port the works were closed down two years
ago; and, though the war has sent up the
price, the co. is apparently not disposed to
go ahead until it has some sort of assurance
that it will not be again knocked out, in a
few months perhaps, on the termination of
the war. There are only- two Australian
factories making the paper—a tough brown
wrapping paper—for which the pulp is a
suitable raw material; and the ideal arrange-
ment would be a co-operative one, with
these factories as shareholders. But even
then they must have adequate tariff protec-
tion. For if they were more or less bound
by self-interest to take a comparatively-
dear Australian pulp, they might easily find
the market for the manufactured goods
knocked from under their feet by a foreign
dumper.
THE SEED OF DISCORD.
BILLO (recently reformed): “’Ere, I've 'ad enough o' yous blokes causin' trouble
between a bloke an' his tom."
SALVATIONIST: “Wof’s wrong, Brother?"
BILL: “ Why , one o' yers inside arsks me right before me bit o' skirt 'ere was I lookin'
fer Grace — an’ me tom’s name’s Sarah!"
“Shay”: The sectarian squeal over the
appointment of T. W. McCawley as presid-
ing Judge of Queensland Arbitration Court
is a characteristic ebullition. The first man
to “spot” McCawley’s unique legal capacity
was that dour Scot, ex-Premier Wullie Kid-
ston, whose leaning towards the “Micks”
was very far from a penchant." When he
appointed McCawley Crown Solicitor not a
word was said save by disgruntled members
of the profession. The next man to recog-
nise McCawley's parts was Denham, an ultra-
Methodist. Now, because the Ryan Labor
Government appoints McCawley to a judge-
ship, the yellow pup bays the moon. Dur-
ing his time as Crown Solicitor (and he is
now only 25) McCawley thrice toppled over
the High Court on appeal to the Privy Coun-
cil, and if there is any man in Queensland
who seems marked out for a place on the
High Court in due time it is unquestionably
this brilliant logician.
Anybody seen a stray selection on the
wallaby? A local body in Beaudesert wants
to answer this inquiry concerning it: —
Dear Sir, —I would appreciate greatly any infor-
mation regarding a piece of ground bought by me
near Queensland. I bought it from the Council of
Queensland • some 29 years ago for- it 8 Bs.. and it
was situated in- the main street of Bow Desert, 40
miles from Queensland. Mr. Kelly was the squatter
who owned the property, and the allotment was num-
ber 19, and it faced the Registry office at that time.
Owing to a tragedy occurring in the Great Australian
Coffee Palace, Sydney, Castle Rae-street, where I
was staying, I left, being afraid to stay, and left
all my baggage, containing title deeds, etc. I sailed
for England on the steamer Oceana in the early part
of May, 1888. Any information you can give me
regarding my property I would be deeply grateful
for. —-Yours etc., Benjamin Davis.
Finder please return to 42 Daisy-street,
Glasgow.
“Itan”.*- Premier Ryan is a sort of lone-
hand politician. He was the only Premier
in Australia to stand out against conscrip-
tion, the only one to object to summary,
powers to deal with the I.W.W. fire-fiends,
and the only one to declare that there shall
be no inter-state freedom of trade in live
stock. The border hold-up was originally
established to conserve stock during the
drought “for Imperial needs.” On that
plea a majority of the High Court held his
action was sound. But the Court did not
contemplate a continuation when the drought
lifted, nor the cornering of 15,000 tons of
meat for the State butchers’-shops. It looks
as if Ryan intends to keep his revolver
pointed at trespassers on the border as long
as he can, and on Chicago-octopus lines
attempt to. corner the meat trade of Aus-
tralia for his cattle-runs. On what is really a
dishonest plea he is holding up stock prices in
all the States except his own by at least 25
per cent. He declines to open the border,
though there are now millions of fat stock
in Bananaland, and he declares that if any-
one wants meat they must buy it dead from
the Government ring. What sort of a
Federal Government is it that will allow the
Commonwealth to be bled in this way?
Rain and Ruin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Food or famine, drought or plenty, you’re
perverse, Australia mine;
After sending seasons-splendid rain destroys
the corn and wine;
Sometimes you are mean and niggard,
grudging moisture for the dust,
Then you empty out the downpour that will
rot the wheat to rust.
Now when our Australian fields must give
the Allies strength again.
Come the sodden days to spoil it. Are you
German, Mister Rain?
We have many sons in Flanders in the
battle’s bloody dance,
And the waratah is gartered with the lilied
fields of France;
So our wheat must go to feed them from
the Downs and Western plain,
We must give the Allies succor from the
sweet and yellow grain—
Feed the men of France and Britain, swell-
ing up their hearts again.
But you turn the tap to flood us—are you
German, Mister Rain?
All the sneaking submarining hunger brings
to many a mouth,
And we grow their chief salvation in the
cornfields of the South ;
.\ll the soldiers, and the children, and the
nursing mothers wait,
For the crop of old Temora and the corn
from Bogan Gate.
And the ballast shins steam southward that
they may relieve the strain;
And yet you keep on falling! Are you
German, Mister Rain?
QUEENSLAND.
M. L.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 13, 1917.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Dr. Dunne, the Archbishop for whom more
than R.C.’s are this week mourning, gained
early distinction as a teacher in the then
newly-established seminary of St. Lawrence
O’Toole, which had been founded by Dr.
O’Quinn, afterwards first R.C. Bishop of
Brisbane. Dr. Dunne, following O’Quinn to
Brisbane, arrived in 1863, and became vicar-
general and secretary to his old friend. In
1868 he went to Toowoomba, where, during
a pastorate of 13 years, he was greatly
beloved. The eminent churchman was near-
ing the ninetieth milestone when the hour
struck.
Mrs. Walter Kirk (she used to be pretty
Zaidee McCord) died suddenly on Monday
morning. Her husband is the manager of
CTessbrook station. It is only about IS
months ago since she went thither with him
as a young bride.
Another death, unfortunately—Mrs. Dora
Eliza Armstrong, mother of ex-Speaker W.
D. Armstrong, M.L.A. The old lady (she
was 90) was daughter of the late John Beit,
of Westbrook, and afterwards of Nelson
(M.L.). Her two sons-in-law added the
prefix “hbn.” to their name —William Van-
neck and Leopold de Sal is. Lord Hunting-
field, fifth baron, of Heveningham Hall, Yox-
ford and Leiston Old Abbey, Suffolk, is a
grandson. Four grandsons are on active ser-
vice, and one of them wears the Military
Cross. In her day Mrs. Armstrong was one
of the 'most kindly and hospitable of the
many kindlv Downs hostesses.
Nellie Bracker has accepted the diamond
forerunner of a plain gold band from Arthur
Stephens, son of A. Cornwall Stephens, of
Sujcfey, England.
Another bull’s-eye to the little blind god’s
shaft. The victims are Colin Taylor, son
of the John Taylors, of Russell Park, Surat,
and Jean Dyson Holland, daughter of the
late secretary of the Q.T.C. and Mrs. Dyson
Holland, of Melbourne.
George Dunbar, our last Rhodes scholar,
did like the rest of the scholarship boys—
reported at Oxford and then hurried into
khaki,
Private Stuart Cameron, son of the
squatting I). C. K. Camerons, has won the
Military Medal.
Billzac hgain ! He has no veneration for
anything. Six of him hired brumbies from
a London livery stalile. and actually raced,
encouraging the mounts with shouts, down
Rotten Row! What will they think of us
in Mayfair! ,
Ellen McEwan, a small person from Glas-
gow, has been appointed Health Inspector.
She was one of the first women to gain
a diploma for Sanitary Science in the
smoky Scotch city. Elleu’s job will be to
visit schools, factories, etc., in pursuit of
dirt, disease and other devils.
January 26 is to be “Red Triangle Day,”
when the Y.M.C.A. will hunt more money
for additional huts for the soldiers. Our
Mayoress is as usual on the warpath.
Yours well a-steamed,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“M. Jay” : Bananaland introduced to Aus-
tralia the idea of using a scrap of paper
to report the accused’s blasphemy to the
Bench. It happened about 30 years ago, in
the old Elizabeth-street dust-hole of a court-
house, in the days of picturesque Pinnoek,
P.M. It was customary till then for the
constable to march up the court and bawl
out for all his job was worth the full text
of the obscenity used by his captured quarry
the evening before. The limit in endurance
was reached one morning when a burly
policeman on the notorious Albert-street beat
weighed in with a haul of eight for language.
Necessarily he had to procesh to the Bench
eight times and roar eight different collec-
tions of curses. That settled Pinnoek.
When the Court was adjourned, he held seri-
ous consultation with young H. L. Arehdall
(then deposition clerk, now senior P.iM.)
and others, with, the result that it was
decided to shut off the filth that daily oozed
from the throat of the arresting cops and
experiment with the slip of paper handed
up to the Bench.


TOOTH'S
Light Crystal
V
. ! ‘ 1 I 1 >.i_ i'
A T '.
AT F
Resolve to drink it
right throughout the
New Year. It has
: '■■■- ■■ ■*: ‘t?■ ;
recuperative qualities
that you will thor-
oughly appreciate on
the hot days.
Have you tried
a bottle — lately?


wn.
For Dry
Shampoo
In between the wet sham-
poos and whenever you
want your hair to look
nice and bright, but have
no time or desire to wash
it, use Icilma Hair Pow-
der. Simply sprinkle the
powder lightly over the
hair and brush it out
after five minutes. The
hair will then be free
from dust and dirt and
look beautifully fresh,
clean and glossy —without
wetting and loss of time,
or risk of catching cold.
Icilma Hair Powder is a
British - made preparation
which greatly benefits the
hair and cannot injure the
most sensitive scalp. It is
the only dry shampoo which
readily brushes out, and
so simple and successful
that it has completely solved
the difficulty of cleansing
the hair when suffering from
colds or illness, and is par-
ticularly useful for ladies
who cannot wash the hair at
all. Icilma Hair Powder also
provides an excellent means,
when used between the wet
shampoos, of keeping the
hair in perfect condition
without too frequent wash-
ing —too much wetting being
as bad for the hair as too
little wetting.
Hair Powder
(For Dry Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is -pronounced Eye-Silma.
T. C. Gambles & Co., Sole Agents,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your linger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression ?
if so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being-
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which tlie skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your ease is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Keniedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Hites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3j- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng
Can be obtained at any Drug- Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
The Bulletin
RYDERS
SEEDS
FROM OYER THE SEA*
■will give you the best flowers of the old
Homeland and the finest home-grown
Vegetables.
Illustrated Catalogue
of Ryders Seeds in Penny Packets
FREE to anyone anywhere.
RYDER G SON, Ltd.
Seed Merchants. ST. ALBANS. ENG.
The Answers Shewm&Question
The Bulletin
Illustration of
attachment for
Gilktteßlades
W THE v
EVERMORE
mt=
mmm
The Bulletin
Attachment far
DurhamDupkx
1 Blades.
m
, i
«
v v
Yu: \
\ OH
Uuiui*
tow
f Dotted >
arrows show
DIAGONAL
COMFORT
QUALITY
VALUE
PLEASURE
ASK YOUR
DEALER (o
DEMONSTRATE
IT
©
For Sale through
out Australasia
IF UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO
BOX 1003 G P.O SYDNEY BOX M GPO. AUCKLAND NZ.
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
ifl
M I
THIS instep-strap shoe lias been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black floweret!
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted, shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it really is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostoek No.
09800
S2<s
A
fes
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostoek” on the soles.
THE SIGN OE
AGOOD SHINE
SOLDIERS, FOR A BRIGHT SHINE
—a quick shine, and a lasting one, use
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO PASTE.
It w'ill give your boots, leggings and leatherware a brilliant chestnut color, and
produce a lasting polish. ONLY 6d. PER TIN. TRY IT.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who v;UI quote you price for it*
Record of Australia’s soldiers so far: 3 4
Y.C.’s, 1 K.C.8.. 20 O.R.’s. 1 K.C.M.G., 34
(Ml.C.’s. 00 D.S.O's. 321 Military Crosses.
257 D.C.M.’s and 250 Military Medals —767
decorations. But those are trifles compared
with the real things.
“Boro-Belle”: Bananaland’s sugar indus-
try wastes immense quantities of two pro-
ducts which in other countries are being
utilised .for all they are worth. These are
molasses and mogass. In Natal they are
now manufacturing motor spirit by the dis-
tillation of molasses, and the cost permits it
to compete with gasoline, while a paper-mill
is being erected at New Iberia, Louisiana, to
utilise the megass. In Queensland what
molasses is not carted away by the farmers
is conducted into adjacent creeks and water-
ways, while the megass is burnt as the
swiftest means of getting rid of it. The
worst of it is that this scandalous waste is
at the cost of the sugar cocky,
“lieges”: Justice a’Beckett's portrait has
just been added to the poor collection in the
Melbourne Supreme Court Library. The
first item was a portrait, presented by J. D.
Wood, of a’Beckett’s uncle, a former Chief
Justice. The present Judge, fullest of
years on the Bench, looks back to a good
deal more than half a century’s work.
When lie arrived the Judges were Stawell,
Barry, E. E. Williams and Molesworth,
senior, ablest of all. It may fairly la' said
that the present Bench is superior, on the
whole, in calibre. The Bar is as good. Yet
the Old Bar excelled tin' present very much
in racy qualities. Fellows was probably the
only one who would have shone in London.
But even lie did not make a good impression
as Judge. Aspinall was the wit, Dick Ireland
tin' champion for blarneying juries. Iligin-
botham shone more in politics.
Bisln.p Wentworth-Sheilds, “enthroned” at
Armidale (X.S.W.) on December 27, is the
Jifth to wear Anglican gaiters in that town.
When the see was founded in 1868, Armidale
was coupled with Grafton, and the bishop
had a cathedral in each place. Dr. Sawyer,
imported to give the diocese a start, had
hardly got used to his apron when lie was
drowned. Ilis Successor was Dr. Turner,
and since his death, in 1894, the diocese has
dropped the importing policy. Dr. Green,
the next man, was schooled and ordained in
Victoria, Cooper, who followed, had been at
Ballarat for some years. In his time, the
Armidale diocese was divided, and Grafton
went into the bishing business on its own
account, under Dr. Druitt. The latest wearer
of the Armidale gaiters, Wentworth-Sheilds,
had for years superintended collection plates
in Sydney.
“Locker”: “Y.Z.,” who deals (P>.
28/12/TG) with Grant’s escape from Mel-
bourne Gaol, knows less of the place than
1 do. Neither Melbourne Gaol nor Pent-
ridge has spiked walls. Grant made his rope
fast to the iron railing of a sentry tower,
which is only manned in the daytime, when
the prisoners are not locked in their cells.
As for boys climbing over the outer wall
at Pentridge, what of that? The obstruc-
tion merely surrounds the farm or outer
station, and is not supposed to be iinpass
able as a wall. But as armed sentries are
stationed in boxes at short intervals on top.
it isn’t advisable for a client to try scaling
it. Some years ago a prisoner named Kelly
thought he would take a chance. Ilis luck
was no good, and he had a funeral next day.
The walls of the upper station or gaol pro
per are a different proposition altogether.
Reverting to Grant’s “job,” he was ex-
tremely lucky, the odds against his rope
making fast in the ironwork of the tower
to retain his weight being enormous.
“Eiwod” : The little Jap hustlers have just
put up the tallest chimney in the world. It
is for the Keehara Mining Co., at Saginasaki,
15 miles from Beppu, on the east coast of the
island Kyushu, where the co. is building one
of the largest copper smelters on earth.
The foundation of the chimney is on the
hill at Saginasalci. which is 480 ft. above sea-
level. The stack proper rises 550 ft. above
this foundation. It is concrete reinforced
with steel bars 42ft. in diameter at the bot-
tom and tapering to 20] ft. at the top. The
smelter is being built at the foot of the hill.
It is connected with the large stack by a
concrete flue 1500 ft. long. All the materials
used in the construction are Japanese ; and
the owners have hopes that some poor, shift-
less people like the Australians, who don’t
use up their own materials, will send them
ore and matte to treat.
“Billy T.” : Have you given weighty con-
sideration to the many cables with which
Australia has been blessed dealing with the
opinions of Mr. Ilall Caine concerning the
little disagreement in Europe? I am a pas-
sionate student of Hall Caine views, and
simply cannot get enough of them. When
the celebrated author delivers himself of the
idea that the Germans are a lower order of
mammals, and the cable hastens to tell us
so, all Australian doubts about the nature
of the Germans are set at rest. When Hall
Caine senior—the popular author of Half
Caine, junior—ups and says that “the Allies
will not recognise America’s right to force
the pace,” and the eablegrammer feverishly
breaks the Sabbath in order that Australia
may have this bit for breakfast, I thank God
there is at least one leader and teacher of
jnen who sees facts in their true perspective.
If ever a few censors are killed in Australia
(and I trust there may be), it will be be-
cause they are suspected of suppressing some
few of the wise maxims of the great Caine.
DAYLIGHT ROBBERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“it's robbery! 7 ’ the stranger said,
A surging anger in his air.
Ilis face was colored nicely red.
With tints of purple here and there.
“You call it ‘saving,’ if you like!
The thing’s as clear as mud to me
(I'd like to see it cause a strike) —
It's simple daylight robbery!”
He only snorted when I tried
To show the blessings it might bring.
In angry tones he loudly cried:
“It is the wowsers worked the tiling!
What use is there to be alive
If matters go like this? It's clear
The pubs will really close at five!
Oh, give us back our hour of beer!”
N.S.W.
ARFPINT O’KASIONALLY.


Daylight Saving means
more time for Kodak Photography
Kodak Photography is camera work with
the bother left out. It is daylight-all-the
way —no dark-room required from first
to last —and' can be indulged by itself or
in combination with all outdoor games,
pastimes and rambles.
The daylight saving reform gives you
another hour of clear davlight to follow
j o
this delightful hobby.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/-,
all of which are extremely easy to use, and with the
Kodak Tank the novice can develop with the same
splendid results as an experienced professional.
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak takes postcard
pictures — x 3J- inches. Price, £5/10/-
Ask for very interesting, fully illustrated booklet :
“Picture Making with a Kodak.”
Of all Kodak dealers, and
Kodak (Australasia) Ltd.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.
379 George Street. SYDNEY; "The 810ck,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
250-252 Queen Street. Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Buthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 316 Argent Street. Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, also Corner Eambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z
3 Eorne Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
i*.... .■
- . v -1
m
m
.
MM
m
,M fe>&
"••; - ;
Is^^lasWß
■
ssistiiai
J*
M
i
Wg&'
Hi
vv'
if ••'
mm
m
Hi
'i,4, .. ■ ' $ ■&; «-tv - i -<' * v^/ ■/ '%&«s£
The Bulletin
ThemtfrM ofsup&r/br
motor car ■service
A
&
I
Tv
*
The Bulletin
The mark of superton
motor car derate#
Everywhere Hupmobile dealers are offering the evidence of Hupmobile performance
to help motor-car buyers settle the question of which automobile to buy.
IF YOU ask the dealer to demonstrate “pick-up” he will send the car from a
stand to 25 miles an hour within ten seconds. Or he will slow the speed to
5 miles an hour on high and then accelerate to 50 —smoothly and silently.
If you want high-gear hill-climbing demonstrated, say so; for if the Hupmobile
excels in any one of its virtues, it is pulling power on high gear.
Lacking a hill, ask to have the car pull through deep sand or mud on high, and
see how easily it is done.
Watch how beautifully it handles on high gear; how easily it steers; what short
turns can be made; how nimble it is in the getaway with other cars. Yet it is a
big. comfortable car. And at slow speed or high speed or moderate speed, notice
how little motor‘vibration you feel.
We have told you what to expect from the Hupmobile.
Now have a performance test of several cars if you want the question decided to
your own satisfaction.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tops. Motor: I'our-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in. x olin.).
Transmission: Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Rear Axle floating- type, spiral bevel gear. Cam shaft and crank shaft bearings bronze shell, babbitt
lined. Tong wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater). Tyres 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- arid 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 41in. on 7-seater. Electric
starting and lighting; ventilating, rain vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting side curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery; speedometer; ammeter; robe rail, foot
rail and carpet in tonneau; non-skid tyres on rear; five demountable rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki
hood and seat covers at small additional cost over list price of ear.
Hupp Motor Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICIv & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


i,egal Notices.
In the Estate of JOHN LANE, deceased,
ANY person who can furnish any informa-
tion respecting the next of kin of the
abovenamed, late of 2 Nithsdale Street,
Sydney, is requested to communicate with
the undersigned.
T. W.HJARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers, ,
Castlereaah Street. Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH 1). McINTOSH.
JIV O L I THE AT It IS, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WI’DX' SDAVR AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
TIVOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
1 -EVERY EVENING AT 8. -
Grand Reappearance of
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
VERA PEARCE, JACK 'CANNOT, GEORGE
WELCH, BEL OLIVER. THELMA If A YE, DAISY and
SYDNEY YATES, FRED BLUETT, BILLY REGO,
and others.
Plan at Glen’s.
IJ| E It 1M A .) E STY’S. S Y I) N E Y.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Return of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
including FLORENCE YOUNG, with
THU CINEMA STAR.
Most Resplendent of the Theatrical Firmament.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
Qlt I T E It IO N T II EA T It E, SYDNEY.
The Directors of the Bert Bailey Co. announce
that their company will transfer to the CRITERION
for the LAST TWO WEEKS of their Season.
ON SATURDAY NIGHT.
For the first time in Australia, the BERT BAILEY
CO. in A NEW AUSTRALIAN COMEDY, by
Sumner Locke,
MUM DAWSON, BOSS.
Popular Prices. Box Plan at Paling’s.
T H E A T It E It O Y A L. SYDN E Y
1 Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
The Popular BERT BAILEY CO. present STEELE
RUDD’S
ON OUR SFLUCTION.
BERT BAILEY as DAD.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PAL A C E TIIEAT I t K, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
J. & N. TAIT'S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY ' ">J
■ in''• *,, ?’
PEG O’ MY HEART.
The most popular of all plays.. Plans at Nicholson’s.
WHITE Cl T Y
TO-NIGHT.
7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
The Bulletin
T KIANGLE I’LAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: IX a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer's Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION riCTUIi E THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
jug select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m
PRICES: Sd. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Mii.luu, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
II E A T R E K O V A E, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 20.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present FLORENC'
ROCKWELL in
THIS HOUSE OF GLASS.
Prices as usual.
Amusements. __
P KIN CESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
First Appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER.
Popular Prices.
ING’S THEATRE, M E L 1! O U li N E.
Lessees.... Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of Allen Doone in his New Play,
by Tlico Burt Sayre,
1J APPY-GO-LUCKY O’SHEA.
Popular Prices.
HE T'INEST SHOW AT STL HILDA,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, 8.30.
HANDIES.
BEST COMEDIANS. BEST SINGING.
The Prices, like the Dandies, are Popular.
■y HE AUDITORIUM, ME Ll 5 OURN E.
TWO SESSIONS DAILY.
E. .1. CARROLL presents
A CINEMA THEATRICAL ENTERTAINMENT,
RAMONA.
FULL SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
Prices as usual.
IRC H & C A R K O L L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) front Toowoomba tr
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Hu An Office: ROTH WELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
uY L E R’S HOT EL. mTe L B O U R N E
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Wanted.
Wanted Lady Home Workers.
jjj WEEKLY may be earned in spare time. Dainty
.. work, easily mastered at home from our simple
instruction. No matter where you live you can take
advantage of our special offer, which is open for a
limited time only. Send- three stamps for booklet
giving full detaijs. TORCHON LACE CO., 229
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Business Notices.
The Bulletin
A £l4 Machine
Drawers, £8 10S.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
UMP
proved
Europ
The Trusty Triumph is
mount for all occasions,
is absolutely reliable as
by its unparalleled
ss in the Great
ean War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
Bennett 8 Barkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
(Oft
The Bulletin
•ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AIiABIS’
.gyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
iieapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
iiiy Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
erior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ure of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price II- and 2/6.
Ibtninable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
few
»Wri
=3 iiV.
fi-w
*'-wr
w?M3&&sss&jaa£!
•Jsm
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which you
are interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
I
\
/
s
THE “KI-WI” LEVER.
Strong and Reliable Keyless Open-
face Lever Watch, with Compensation
Balance, Nonmagnetic, Jewelled,
Three-quarter Plate Gilt Movement, in
Oxidised Steel Case.
PRICE, 20/-
from
Stewart
Dawson’s.
OUR NEW
CATALOGUE
is an excellent
shop-window
for Country
Residents who
desire to avail
themselves o f
our splendid
values in
Watches and
Jewellery. We
send it Post
Free.
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY.
2 Splendid
TIMEKEEPERS.
!=?
i
,<5.
8-DAY LEVER WATCH.
This Watch needs winding only once a
week. It’s a Strong Eight-day Lever
Watch, with Visible Escapement,
Enamelled Dial, Jewelled, Compensa-
tion Balance, Keyless Winding, and
Strong Crystal Glass, in Nickel Case.
PRICE, 18/6.
Sterling Silver Case,
PRICE, 25/-
Si
Under any con-
- ditions and for all
kinds of game shooting
Remington-UMC Shot-Gun
Cartridges will respond to the demands
of discriminating sportsmen.
Sold under four brands: .
NEW CLUB, REMINGTON, NITRO CLUB and ARROW
(Black Powder) (Smokeless Powder) (Smokeless Powders, Steel-lined)
All Remington-UMC cases are waterproofed
For sale by leading- dealers. Catalogue free.
The Remington Arms Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Wool worth Building
New York. U. S. A.
The Bulletin
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia. National Mutual Buildings. Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DAYLIGHT-SAVING
means “ Music Out-of-doors! ”
Out on the verandah, or, better still, out in the garden, these Summer
nights, is the ideal place for music. But one cannot move the piano
about! What, then? Well —what better than one of
vu* f *n u
His Master’s Voice
Instruments.
The “Gramophone” is EVERY instrument in ONE— it is virtually a
theatre or an opera house in the home.
One of the best and most beautiful
Portable Hornless Models is the
“T AS M A N,” in Satin-finished
Mahogany, with Nickel-plated Fit-
tings. Its tone and volume are
perfect.
Price £l7/17/ - everywhere.
Instrument catalogue, record lists
and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request.
The “ Tasman,
“ GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.


PIMPLES USED TO
IRRITATE AND BURN
Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“My face was very itchy and red and
after a day or so it was full of little
pimples, which got bigger. The skin
round the pimples was red and inflamed.
They used to irritate and burn me and
I scratched them and caused them to
bleed, then most of them festered. The
pimples caused me great disfigurement.
‘‘l had the pimples three months. I
obtained Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
I used to wash my face with Cuticura
Soap and apply the Ointment. In a
fortnight the pimples were healed.”
(Signed) C. H. Cabrie, 134 Stewart St.,
E. Brunswick, Vic., November 15, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. ;Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card -
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, JN» So V c
Sold throughout the world.
The Bulletin
>~ v
rrs.
ra
»*ti
a
from the Ross .280 <
using the Special Sporting Am-*'
munition with its copper tube
expanding bullet fells the largest
game if a fair hit is registered. i
You increase your chances of
success by carrying this rifle which
not only hits but anchors the
game.
Expert guides and hunters all
over the world recommend it..
Sold by best dealers.
Illustrated Catalogue free on
request.
x ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec,
A 1215 Canada^
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
I».0. Bax 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
The Bulletin
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
ELEY ‘Fourlong’
A .410 bore 2J inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
m
w
*4
OiNWEBSm
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
ELEY 38
Automatic
for VVebley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 410
'Universal'
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L» LONDON
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paving office in the World. HEAD OFFICE .. 87 FITT SIKEE'I, bIDNEx.
Directors •—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. «*•
Black," M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. E. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian -vnox, Esq., K.C.;
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,070,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
"Mine finfirf,"
3 Winners
PL
/ c-? - -c '
La.-*^
i
s^2P^
c^T>-«!r>
i^rC;
SHIPTS -UfafengiH
Pyjamas
The Bulletin
't 0 «(LO'^
«r-\
€rfj
ur^S
B
a_
Glad to oblige you!
A genuine fellowship exists between
users of Plume Motor Spirit. It is only
natural that men who have learnt to believe
in “ Plume ’’—men who know by experi-
ence, its efficiency, its dependability, its
economy—should have the greatest con-
fidence in recommending it to their friends.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
It is an established fact that “ Plume ”
costs less by giving more mileage to the
gallon, is easy starting and ensures a clean
cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
Lubrication plays such an important part
in the sweet running of your car that you
cannot afford to use other than Gargoyle
Mobiloils—“A grade for each type of
Motor.” Write for free Recommendation
Chart, which shows the correct grade you
should use in your car. For sale at all
dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
Pb 6
VO a , Lo^
The Bulletin
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Fax”: Any action by the Federal Senate
to delay the inevitable payment of civil
servants might be a blow to Hughes, but
it would also be a gift to Shylock. The
pay-sheet is a good enough guarantee tor
the usurers who haunt Government offices,
whether payment be regular or otherwise:
and suspension of salaries could only mean
a new crop of clients for the usurers. In
fact, a Senate full of Sh.vlocks would want
to hold up supplies every other month-end.
# * * *
With the old year passed one of the best-
known pubs in Ballarat, or, for the matter
of that, in Victoria —“Lennon’s,” in Sturt-
street. There was a time when the house
was the most popular in the city ; but busi-
ness of late years has slumped so badly
that its last proprietor surrendered his
license without a kick, although his “com-
pensation” amounted to only £175.
* * * *
“llassail”: Thank God! The loannou
has been sunk by a German submarine.
Henceforth I can meet my creditors face to
face.
“Victim”: The N.S.W. Board of Patent
Investigators was inaugurated about 12
xnonths ago by the Government with the
very laudable object of assisting the strug-
gling inventor. Actually the Board is doing
nothing of the sort. Of the money appor-
tioned by the Government it is safe to say
that not more than about 10 per cent, has
gone to the poor inventor. A committee
selected from a ladies’ seminary would have
rendered better service. In my case it
refuses assistance because (>6§ per cent, of
the raw material used in my invention is
of N. S. Wales origin and pet cent, is
from an adjoining State. Illogically the
Board says that it should therefore be
exploited in the adjoining State. The object
seems to be to drive the inventor out of
N. S. Wales as being a useless citizen. This
is the selfsame idiotic policy that allowed
and encouraged the vtormans to capture the
metal from the mines of Australia. It is
quite safe to say these men never have
invented, never will invent, or never could
invent anything useful if they tried. Their
outlook is too circumscribed, and would
have been antiquated in the days of Nero.
To-day they are intolerable and a menace to
progress.
“De Oriel” : I know a man in Tasmania
who runs a cat farm. Only the black furs
are marketed; they are worth up to two
shillings each. Other colors are too cat-
like, so the tabbies and tortoiseshells are
weeded out and condemned to an early death.
Their more fortunate relations eventually
adorn some' fair creature, who confides to
her dearest friend: “Yes, and it cost me 20
guineas, love. Real sable.”
“M.P.A.”: The artful Dago who pushes
the fruit barrow upa longa Bourka-street
puts up a clever dodge during the grape
season. lie “loads” (a conjuring term
for concealing an object unnoticed into a
receptacle of any kind) his paper bags with
several ounces of loose and damaged grapes,
and refastens these bags on the hook with the
really empty ones. In serving a customer
he pulls one of the loaded bags off the hook,
blows it open and fills it with bunches of
the fruit. The customer’s eye naturally fol-
lows the fruit, and the “loaded” bag is never
suspected. The Dago take-down must work
off on the public pounds and pounds of
damaged fruit which is accepted as loss in
any legitimate fruit business. This finds its
way to the dirt-bin of the unsuspecting sub-
urban householder, who has paid full price
for every ounce of it. In handling the
peach or the apricot Constantino is also
very deft. His principal stunt is to lift
a fine sample of fruit with his fingers and
“direct palm” an inferior piece all in the
same movement. It is a sleight similar to one
often used in billiard-ball manipulation. The
Dago becomes an adept at this sleight-of-
hand game, and never fails to work off his
low-grade stuff. I’ve studied him at work
from different angles and on different classes
of fruits, and his dexterity would put to
shame the efforts of some star magicians—
Horace Goldin, for instance. This is the
“office” for every good Australian to put
the Dago’s pot on when the grape-laden bar-
vow pushes into sight.
THE MAGNET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"The prime of summer row is here, - ’
I wrote, “and, though we’re far from wealthy,
The trip can be afforded, deal- —
Poor no one ever is if healthy-!
Replied my spouse: “I’ve one good reason
For staying home —the burglar season.
“The harbor’s at its best, ’ I said—
“ Come, gaze upon its sparkling glories ;
Old girl, we’ll be a long time dead,
And happiness all else before is !
She wired: “Augustus, cease your fooling—
We can’t neglect the children’s schooling!
I urged, I pleaded —all in tain!
Excuses still she had in plenty:
The journey ; how she loathed the train ;
No frocks to wear. (I swear she’d twenty!)
She for the trip was not a starter,
She'd stop at home and play the martyr!
I wouldn’t let the matter rest,
All of her woman’s reasons scorning;
My last appeal to her addressed
Proved a trump card —she came this morning !
And here’s the bait with which 1 caught her:
“The summer sales are on!” That brought hei .
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
A JEWELLED EVENING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The golden flower of day .is closing.
Dusk, like a wraith, flits softly down.
The dying sun the west is nosing,
While Night adjusts her starry crown.
As each fresli beauty I discover
(I very seldom feel this way),
I tread exultant as a lover —
They raised our “minimum" to-dav.
N.s.w.
HELEN BURKE.


DEPENDABLE GUNS
Its Great Sport to get ’em on the wingc
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
FIREARHS EfIBARCiO LIFTED
The military restriction prohibiting the sale of GUNS,
REVOLVERS AND AMMUNITION having been removed, we
supply these goods to the sporting public.
RIFLES,
can now
WM
ttliM
iMMM
MM
mlvMa
mm
ill
Mi!
mm
mm
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
British Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
824. Boswells High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, ‘
it*™™ lover. Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side
ooJt, chambered for cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately
engraved; weight about 71b. soz Delivered
‘The Reliable,”
clips. Greener X
£17(10/-
WE STOCK EVERYTHING FOR EVERY SPORT. “ Goods Right—Prices Right.’
£4
Ho. Greener’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, treble weuge, fast action,
rebounding, 32in. “Siemen s'’ special steel, barrels, shooting guaranteed, both full choke,
nair pistol grip, same as above, but no engraving; a splendid pigeon
£ uu Delivered
£l4/10/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
Send for our new
edition Sports
and Firearms
Catalogue. Post-
ed free to any
address.
The Bulletin
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt. D. & E. lore-end, pistol
nut stock; weight about 71b
grip, wal-
Delivered
£B/7/6
Same as above, but with 82-inch barrels
Delivered £B/12/6
§
Smoke Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2o z. Sample lid., Post Free.
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.1j. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
711 b.; of 16-gauge, about Glib Delivered
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30in. barrels, 7/6 extra.
£5151-
NS
mm
Is
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE
The Bulletin
r
lin
m nn
&
The pen he used
in the Trenches
he is using now in the hospital.
Through that last gallant charge and
through many a tough day’s fighting
before, that pen reposed in his pocket
ready for the moment when it, too,
should come into action. What a boon
it has been to him ! Always ready, the
instant he wanted to write, no matter
where he was, his Waterman’s Ideal
never failed him. If you want to do your
friend on Active Service a real kindness,
send him a Waterman s Ideal, Safety
type , the best type for soldiers.
Three types— Regular, Safety,
and Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan,
(Tomer,
London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vacuum System
m
Can Your Car
Do This?
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers,
Motor-car Dealers and Garages everywhere,
or write
BENNETT U WOOD Ltd.
Exclusive Distributors,
2*4 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Under its own power this car climbed this open jack-
knife bridge at the angle shown in this picture.
This feat was made possible only by the Stewart
Vacuum System.
A car without one could not do it.
Every car so equipped is absolutely sure of a perfect
and positive flow of petrol to the carburetter under
all conditions and on any grade.
With the old gravity system of petrol feed, your car is
dead whenever your carburetter is higher than your
petrol tank.
The pressure system requires endless, troublesome
hand-pumping—keeping air leaks out of the lines,
and often, when most required, it fails.
You need power to climb a steep hill —but you need
more than power —you need a sure, even flow of
petrol to your carburetter at all times.
A Stewart Vacuum System insures this.
It also saves 10 per cent, to 20 per cent, on petrol bills.
It is used by over 60 per cent, of all car manufacturers
as standard equipment.
It can.be installed on your present car (any make or
model).
PRICE £3151- complete.
Bear in mind in selecting your next, car to
see that it is fully equipped with Stewart pro -
ducts; most cars are, and it costs nothing
extra. See that it has a Stewart Tyre Pump,
Stewart Speedometer, Stewart Warning Signal
and Stewart Vacuum System .
No car is better than its accessories ,
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in Th.>
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


GRACE and BEAUTY
Praise LAXO-TONIC PILLS.
m
m
m
m
Miss ANNETTE THORNTON
(from a photo.).
Miss ANNETTE THORNTON is
not only a classical beauty, but
she is an expert in the art of
modern stage dancing. Her ex-
ceptional height and slimness
embrace the effect of her graceful
“dips” and “sweeps” in the Fox
Trot and other strange society
k crazes. Miss Thornton
writes: —
“In a changeable
climate like that of
Australasia, every-
one old and young
needs medicine of
some kind. As you
know, some medi-
cines are very in-
jurious, and in the
end, if persisted in,
completely demoral-
ise the system. I
consider your Laxo-
Tonic Pills the best
medicine there is.
They act upon the
interior of the body
as soap and water
act upon the skin,
cleansing it of every
impurity. They cool
the blood, and, so
to speak, wash it
also. Three or four
hours after taking
a Laxo-Tonic pill
the whole body
seems toned up and
fresh ene d—eyes become
bright, the skin clear, and
one’s energy rises to a new
standard. Even the hair be-
comes imbued with new life
and gloss. As a girl who is
very fastidious as regards
medicine, and whose friends
have vainly tried dozens of
the advertised remedies for
depression and want of health, and then have turned to Laxo-Tonic Pills and found
them all they could ask for, I am sure my opinion is of value to you.
“Believe me, “Yours very truly,
“(Sgd.) ANNETTE THORNTON.”
Laxo-Tonic Pills assist the process of nature, give relish to the food and prevent
exhaustion, nausea, sick headache and other ailments to which women are so
accustomed. With the girl, young woman, the mother, the middle-aged woman
and woman of advanced years, Laxo-Tonic Pills will prove to he a most ratable
friend
o
V
9
9
HILL
*s
The Bulletin
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES DTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
D°, YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘J e ll°ids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids’ the
“most ehictive and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2A
For Anaemia in Women . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1,6. Large size 3/'.
toonMoidt>H?2A
4Pr (rrouounced Jell-Lloyds)
36s
E
a
BOVRVL
increases
the defensive forces of the body.
To keep lit drink Bovrd.
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
%
TC any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Road Fairies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f~\H, hark to the chattering fairy folk
f M outside the garden fence!
f J T winkling eyes through the old
grey gate and a wee brown
thumb on the catch,
And the merry, merry lilt of the fairy lutes
trill call and call me hence,
For I have a mind an ’ a dancing mind to
lift up the misty latch.
Little brown feet on the dusty kerb and
mirth on the wrinkling lips!
’Tis hey for the dower of the sparkling hour
that the roadside fairies bring,
And the leap of the heart, and the beat of
the pulse, and the blood in the finger-
tips,
And the rollicking, frolicking Roadside
fairies hand in hand with the Spring!
Oh, they have set the daffodils beside the
river brink,
And flung the scent of jasmine blossoms on
the flowing breeze;
Oh, every field is painted green and every
road is pink,
And I shall hear the harps of Elfland play-
ing in the trees;
And I shall join the airy fairy marching
throng and feel
The tugging at my shoe-strings and the
plucking at my coat.
The tickling of the fairy fingers on my
lagging heel.
And I shall find the fairy music waking in
my throat.
Oh. every road the fairies take leads on to
pleasant things,
The mumbling of bumble bees, the
laughter of the brook.
They bite their thumbs at Parliaments and
thumb the nose at kings,
And leave to grey and wagging heads the
bondage of the book.
The cleanly joys of sun and sky they
gather for their need.
Oh, every foot’s a joyous foot that joins
the fairy dance
And in the jowl of Grime and Gain they
fling the fairy creed
And strip from off their limbs the hodden
garb of Circumstance!
And if you'd take the pleasant roads and
join the fairy throng
Or tread the fields of daffodils wherein the
fairies play,
Put all your years upon a stave and weave
them into song
And make a bundle of your cares and
leave it by the way !
Nor heed the dusty platitudes the stubbled
chin would preach,
The jingling folk who pass and pass, the
open mouths that prate,
But take unto your Soul the phrase the
merry fairies teach :
“Sleep closes gay or gloomy eyes—the hour
is growing late.”
Oh, the rustling, bustling fairy folk are
clustering in the street!
Whispered words of the winding roads and
talk of the windy hills,
And a chuckling word of the shadowy dell
where the Roadside fairies meet,
And a word of the blooming of violets and
the blushing of daffodils!
Oh, my heart goes out to the fairy folk and
the whimsical fairy ways,
And my toes out-point to the painted roads
that lead to the magic lands;
And only the crease by my mouth will speak
of the dim, drear City ways.
And only the twist o’ the smoke o'er the
hill will say where the City stands.
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Gadamighty!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. HABBAKUK K. DEMPSTER, a
swarthy, villainous person, with a
black patch concealing the un-
sightly socket that had contained his left
eye before it was removed by the thumb of
a citizen of Callao, stepped lightheartedly
out of his boat close by the mouth of the
Tank Stream and came ashore with the air
of one who looks forward to making agree-
able holiday.
It was such a day as has always made
the city of Sydney pre-eminently a place for
a holiday. There was sunlight everywhere.
Mr. Dempster’s black brig, the Rose of
Sharon, flying the Stars and Stripes, swam
in a sheen of sparkling waters out at the
mouth of Sydney Cove. Gum-trees in the
gardens of yellow dwelling-houses above the
beach glinted dewy leaves in the brilliant
early morning. The cloudless blue sky was
still cool with the freshness of the new day.
It was an exhilarating day, and Mr.
Dempster was sensible of its influence, and
sensible of a certain joyfulness that was, if
not entirely due to the gloriousness of the
delightful morning, wdiolly and altogether in
keeping with it. He stepped briskly into
Pitt’s Row, walked as far as Michael
Kavanagli’s inn, the Stuck Pig, stooped his
way through the entrance, and looked about
the dim tap-room as if in search of someone
whom he was expecting there. Before his
one eye had adjusted itself to the dark
interior he was greeted by the gentleman
whom he sought.
“Good day to ye, Cap’n Dempster,”
croaked a voice in the gloom. “Here I be,
so large as life, an’ at y’r sarvice. Micky,
fetch th’ Cap’n a glass of rum, d —n y’r
soul. An’ another for me. Bring th’ bottle,
d —n y’r soul.”
The American peered into the corner
whence emanated this discordant noise, and
made out the author of it, seated beside a
barrel that did duty as a table, with a nearly-
empty glass in his hand.
“Mister Biddlecombe?”
“Jack Biddlecombe it is,” acknowledged
the other harshly—“ole Jack Biddlecombe
of Bideford, d—n his soul. Ole Jack Ketch,
d—n all their souls. An’ what might be y’r
business with me, Cap’n Dempster? Sit ye
down, an’ spit it out, for I’ve work to do
this mornin’, as well ye know, d —n y’r soul,
d—n y’r soul.”
The master of the Rose of Sharon depo-
sited his long, thin carcase on the bench
beside the other and peered at him with his
single bright eye.
“Waal,” he drawled, in a voice as soft
and gentle as the other’s was harsh and
loud, “I guess you’re the man I’m lookin’
for. You’re the hangman, ain’t ye?”
“At y’r sarvice, Cap’n, as I says afore.
The werry same, d—n me soul. An’ don’t
fergit, this is one o’ me workin’ days. I’ve
a job to do at nine o’clock sharp, so I have,
d—n his soul.”
“You had my message?”
“So I did—an’ here I be. What is it ye
want of me. Cap’n?”
The gaunt American waited for the rum
bottle, helped himself to a stiff nip, which
he swallowed neat, put his glass down and
eyed the jovial officer of the law for a few
seconds before he spoke.
“See here, Mister Biddlecombe,” he began,
“I guess you’re jest about to do me a right
good turn, a vurry good turn indeed. Guess
I'm a-goin’ to get quite a likin’ for ye over
thishyer good turn ye’re doin’ me.”
His companion stared at him wonderingly
and laughed. “Well now, Cap’n, wot’s tli’
game, d—n y’r soul? I does many a good
turn —round coveys’ necks, so I does, when
I turns ’em off. But I dunno wot sort of
a turn you may be expectin’ me to do you.
It ain’t one of them there turns-off you’ll be
a-wantin’ of me?”
“No, not for myself, Mister Biddlecombe.
I guess not. It’s for a friend of mine. You’re
hanging Daniel Larrup this morning, ain’t
that so?”
“At nine of th* clock, sharp, Cap’n Demp-
ster, you loses your mate, d—n his soul,
so you does. At nine sharp. A quarter
afore nine, this ’ere Dan Larrup ’ll be all
alive an’ jolly-o. A quarter past—-he’ll be
cold meat. Sieh is life, Cap’n Dempster—
sieli is life.”
He leaned over towards the sailor and
nudged his arm. “Was ye wishful to have
made heasy for Dan’l Larrup, Cap’n?
Was ye wantin’ for to make things pleasant
an’ politeful for ’im? Did ye want ’im
treated gentle?”
“Gentle—Hell!”
Captain Dempster snat in the sawdust
and banged his fist down on the barrel top
so that bottle and glasses jumped and
rattled. He stood up and placed himself in
front of the other, leaning towards him
eagerly. From his breast pocket he drew
out a little bulging canvas bag.
“See here, Mister Biddlecombe, sir ! Here
I have fifty Spanish dahlars. They’re yours
—if you let me take your place an’ hang
this goddam skunk myself. Fifty dahlars
for doing your work for you ! What d’ye
say now, Mister Biddlecombe? ’Tis money
easy airnt. Count th’ dahlars y’self. Just
let me have th’ fixin’ of thishyer Dan Larrup
up, an they’re yourn.”
The hangman considered a little while
and shook his head regretfully.
“It can’t be done, Cap’n. I)—n me soul,
it can't be done. Old Jack Biddlecombe’s
th’ on’y one wot’s allowed to scrag coveys
here in Sydney. Besides, even if they was
to let you—why, you couldn’t do th’ job.
Hangin’s a trade, Cajl’n—a werry skilful
trade. So it is. d —n me soul. It’s a art.
A hamachewer like you wouldn’t know wot
to do with sich a job. It takes knowledge to
scrag ’em proper, so it does. Knowledge,
d—n their souls, knowledge.”
Captain Dempster reluctantly replaced his
money-bag and sat down. He pondered for
,a moment.
“Waal,” he said sadly, “I guess so, I
guess so. No strangers ain’t allowed to
officiate, I guess.”
He pondered a little further. Mr. Biddle-
combe drank some more rum.
“See here, now, Mr. Biddlecombe.” pre-
sently went on Captain Dempster, “I was
having some conversation last night with the
feller that bosses that thar gaol of yourn
up on the hill. I’d been up seeing Dan’l
Larrup—kinder rej’icing over his situation
an’ letting him know how much rej’iced I
was. It sorter hurt my feelings to see him
so careless about it, and when the gaol-boss
was a-letting me out I asked him if thishyer
hanging business wasn’t a vurry painful an’
onuleasant manner of quittin’ th’ vale of
tears. I was hoping it was. But he laffed.
‘Bless ye. no, Mister Dempster,’ he says, ‘it
don’t hurt nohow T —the way John Biddle-
combe does it.’ Guess that upset me a
little. I want Dan’l Larrup to be hurt—
to be hurt good an’ hard —an’ I want to be
standing close by, givin’ thanks to Gad-
amighty that he’s having a disagreeable
departure to Hell. That’s what I want.
I don’t want to see th’ blarsted, crawlin’
son of a gun die comfortable. I want to see
him die ugly. D’ye get my meaning, Mr.
Biddlecombe?”
“Why, d—n my soul, Cap’n Dempster, it
looks to me as if you ain’t too friendly
towards y’r shipmate.”
“Friendly! No, by hell I’m not, Mr.
Biddlecombe. D’ye know what th’ skunk
done?”
“Well, I seen th’ warrant, an’ it says he’s
come into my hands on account of murder —
for shootin’ some felne over a question of a
woman, up on th’ Rocks. Common sort of
haecident enough. Was the covey he put
away anything to you, Cap’n? Friend,
maybe? Maybe you’d know th’ madame?”
“No, I've never seen the trull. Guess I
don’ wanta meet no. female that’d associate
with Dan Larrup. An’ I didn’t know the
man he killed. But I know this. That
goddam, jumped-up yahoo he stole my best
pair of breeches an’ two dahlars that was
in them. Took them out of my cabin, an’
put ’em on to go and see his woman. And
now he swears he’ll be hung in ’em. Says
he hasn’t got a decent pair of his own to
attend the cere-mony in. What d’ye think
of that, Mr. Biddlecombe? He won’t give
’em up nohow, and the authorities won’t
make him.”
Mr. Biddlecombe grinned.
“Too bad. d —n his soul, too bad !”
“Waal now. Mr. Biddlecombe, I was a-
lioping that ye’d let me have the satisfaction
of attending to the skunk myself: but if it
can’t be done, why, I’d be willing to pay
you to make it as painful as ye can for him
when ye turn him off.”
The hangman leered his approval of this
suggestion. He grasped the American’s
hand.
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY DISEASE
IS CAUSED
Among other things by WORRY, OVERWORK, CHILLS, COLDS,
INFLUENZA, DAMPNESS and CONSTANT STOOPING.
1 "Every Picture
) Teffs A Story
c
7
It Should Never be Forgotten that Stabbing or Dull Pain in the Back,
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Gravel, Dropsy, are all the Result
of Weak or Diseased Kidneys.
The clanger of a wreck begins
immediately the vessel springs a
leak, and then is the easiest time,
the right time, the safest time, to
safeguard the ship from being
wrecked. The-'danger of Bright’s
disease, dropsy, diabetes and other
fatal kidney disorders begins imme-
diately there is any sign of kidney
complaint —backache, dizzy spells,
urinary disorders, sediment, gravel,
impure blood, pains in the loins and
sides, puffy eyelids, swollen ankles,
etc. The easiest time, the right
time, the only safe time to protect
yourself against fatal kidney com-
plications is when the first signs
appear, for kidney complaint comes
on unnoticed and it is bound to end
fatally if neglected. Take no risks
with your health, but begin with
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at
the first sign of anything wrong.
Doan’s Pills are a special medicine
and a sure cure for every disorder
of the kidneys or connective systeml
But you must be careful to get the
genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY TROUBLE
CURED.
SYDNEY WOMAN SPEAKS.
Mrs. F. Osmond, West Street. Bal-
gowlah, Manly, Sydney, says:—“I am
pleased to have an opportunity to pub-
licly testify to the virtue of Doan's
Backache Kidney Pills as a cure for all
symptoms of kidney trouble, and I trust
the publishing of this testimonial will be
the means of benefiting other sufferers.
About three years ago I was a martyr
to backache, and the pain I had to “endure
was at times almost unbearable. The
ache seemed to centre in the small of the
back, just above the kidneys, and never
left me day or night. I also had several
other distressing symptoms of kidney dis-
order, such as headaches, dizzy feelings
and sleepless nights. I was always try-
ing one remedy or another, but derived
no benefit from any of them. One day a
friend urged me to take a course of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and this
medicine proved to be the very thing I
wanted. There was a marked improve-
ment after taking the first bottle, and by
the time I had finished three bottles of
the Pills T was quite cured, all signs of
backache liaving disappeared entirely."
Five years later Mrs. Osmond says:—
“I am still free of backache and kidney
trouble, and have Keen since Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me over five
years ago.’’
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
The Bulletin
PILLS
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
ITCHING PILES.
Mr. James Higgins, 21 Terry Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says: —"Some years
ago I suffered a lot' from Itching Piles,
the irritation being very trying, particu-
larly so at night and during the hot
weather. A friend advised me to try
Doan’s Ointment, and, knowing how
good Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were,
I bought a pot at once, and it proved
a blessing. After a few applications I
got relief, and as 1 continued with the
remedy the improvement was maintained,
until finally the Piles completely disap-
peared. Five years have elapsed since
I used Doan’s Ointment, and I have had
no return of the ailment all that time.
I cannot speak too highly of Doan's
Ointment, and recommend it to other
sufferers.”
Two years later Mrs. Higgins says l
“My husband is still free of the torture of
Piles, and has been since Doan’s Oint :
ment cured him seven years ago.”
ECZEMA.
Mrs. J. Thompson, 3 Onslow Street,
Granville, says : —“For a long time I was
tortured with Eczema. The irritation
of this ailment is dreadful, the days are
miserable, and the nights sleepless. I
tried all sorts of remedies, but nothing
did me any good. I consulted a doctor,
but his treatment also failed to benefit
me. At last my son induced me to get
a pot of Doan’s Ointment, having heard
this remedy very well spoken of. After
the. first application I noticed an im-
provement, so I continued the treatment
until I was quite cured, using in all two
.pots. Doan’s Ointment is wonderful,
and I never miss an opportunity of prais-
ing it. Eczema is a terrible complaint,
•and other sufferers will be pleased to
know of a sure cure.”
Four years later Mrs. Thompson says:
.“I am pleased to say I have had no signs
,of Eczema since Doan’s Ointment cured
( me four years ago.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per pot, or posted
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“D —n my soul, of course! A pleasure,
Cap’n. a pleasure !”
“What can you do?”
“I can give him two runs for his money,
Cap’n. Rope breaks th’ first time, an' next
time I gives him a short drop, so as he
chokes slow. How’ll that do? It ought to
learn ’im t’ leave off priggin’ pants.”
“That’ll do nicely, Mr. Biddlecombe.
Guess I'll enjoy a performance like that.
Say, will ten dahlars cover the damage?”
“Fifteen. Five for a new rope. D—n
me soul, we must have cost o’ material.”
“Very good. Here’s the money. And my
best thanks to ye, Mr. Biddlecombe.”
Over at Government House, across the
valley of the Tank Stream, Mr. John
Thomas Campbell, Secretary to His Excel-
lency, laid the following circular despatch
before Colonel Macquarie :
Downing Street, 13th October, 1812.
Sir, —Ilis Royal Highness the Prince Regent, act-
ing in the Name and on Behalf of His Majesty,
having been Pleased, by an Order in Council dated
this day, to Order that General Reprisals be granted
against the Ships, Goods and Citizens of the United
States of America and others Inhabiting within the
Territories thereof, I herewith transmit you a Copy
of the said Order; and I am to signify to you the
Commands of llis Royal Highness, that you do
make the same as public as possible within your
Government, in order that ilis Majesty's subjects
may do their utmost in their several Stations, to
make Capture of the Ships and Vessels belonging
to the Citizens of the United States, and to destroy
their Commerce; for which purpose Ilis Royal High-
ness has been Pleased to direct Letters of Marque
and Commission of Privateers to be granted in the
usual Manner. 1 have, etc., Bathurst.
“The Rose of Sharon!” observed Gover-
nor Macquarie.
There was a pleasant view from the hill-
side where the gallows stood. Captain
Dempster took up a. position close to tin*
rear of the ugly structure, and contemplated
with much satisfaction the black line of
greasy rope that cut the blue sky above the
platform. Underneath the staging re could
see the sunlit waters of Port Jackson,
stretching to the Heads, between the dark
green and purple of the wooded bills.
Half the people of Sydney were assem-
bled to enjoy the hanging. The first race
meeting had been held the year before last,
but it was long before the most popular
source of entertainment ceased to be pro-
duced and stage-ma aged by Sheriff and
Provost-Marshal. An execufi <n w->s a form
of open-air entertainment that never failed
to draw ft large audience, in spite of the
fact that executions were frequent and
familiar. The crowd was in a good humor
to-day. It might well be in such pleasant
weather.
Presently a small procession made its
way up the hill. There were some soldiers,
a few civil officials, and a cart which carried
three men and a coffin. Captain Dempster
noted its approach—and then something
that was going on in the harbor attracted
his attention.
A white boat which had left the side of
his Majesty’s sloop of war Samarang had
ranged alongside his shin. He saw quite
plainly that two white-clad figures climbed
the side ladder, and that they were followed
by six red marines. Half a minute after
they had reached the deck the Stars and
Stripes fluttered down from the gaff of the
Rose of Sharon, and, to his bewilderment,
in another half-minute the Red Ensign had
taken its place.
“Gadamighty!” muttered Captain Demp-
ster.
He was astounded, but the imminent and
satisfactory discomfiture of Daniel Larrun
demanded his immediate attention. He
turned to look at him, and found him not at
all discomfited.
The cheerful sinner was mounting the
steps in the wake of the parson, a broad
grin on his sunburnt face at the sight of his
scowling captain. Hangman Biddlecombe
brought up the rear, also grinning.
And Hangman Biddlecombe was wearing
Captain Dempster’s buckskin breeches.
As he caught sight of the captain, Mr.
BiddLccombe slapped his pinioned victim on
the back, and thev both roared with laugh-
ter. Then Mr. Biddlecombe attended deftly
to the duties of his office, the trapdoor
crashed, and Daniel Larrup died comfort-
ably, and spun slowly round at the end of
the rope.
Captain Dempster turned bitterly away,
and as he turned he felt a hand upon his
shoulder.
“You are my prisoner, sir—a prisoner of
war.”
It was the Provost-Marshal with the Gov-
ernor’s warrant in his hand.
“Gadamighty!” muttered Captain Demp-
ster.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Resolution.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the more or less pretty bar-
maid at the Pig’s Head said “Hello,
Mr. Jones,” I was not surprised.
To meet Jones in a bar in the early morn-
ing is ' one of the least surprising things in
life. I simply put back the sixpence change
I had just placed in my pocket and said
“Have one !” without turning round.
“No ; I won’t have a drink,” said Jones.
“The fact is, my watch has stopped, and I
only just dropped in to see the time.”
Still, he lingered.
“You see, old man,” he said. “I’m not
drinking. This sort of thing is no good to *
us, you know.”
“No good at all,” I admitted.
“We waste money and time buying head-
aches ; that’s all. I’m going to cut it out
altogether. I’ve made a resolution.”
“Let me see,” I said —“the forty-fourth,
isn’t it?”
“Oh, I’m dead earnest this time.” an-
swered Jones. “I’ll tell you what: I’ll have
this one with you, and that will be absolutely
my last.”
The more or less pretty barmaid had put
a glass and his usual bottle out long ago, and
he helped himself.
“You see. old man, I reckon we owe it —
to others. This swilling business is an ex-
pensive habit. Think what a man would
save in a year I”
“It has been worked out,” I said. '‘Old
Perry used to do it in the Domain. It
amounted ‘to a gold watch, a suit of clothes,
and sixpenn’orth of conversation-lollies, a
packet of hairpins, and a holiday trip for
the wife in a year. In your case it might
amount to a terrace of houses. The mar-
vellous thing is that temperance people don t
become millionaires.”
At this moment Brown came in and
joined us; and Jones told him that the
drink he was having was his last. He ex-
plained his resolution in detail, with the
reasons.
“That’s all right,” said Brown, cheer-
fully. “Drink it up and have one with me.”
I said that I concurred with Jones’s
resolution, and to help him along I was
going with him along the street.
"No, no.” said Jones, hastily. "Don’t let
me take you away, old man.”
“Come on. drink up,” cried Brown.
“Well, I’ll have the same,” said Jones.
“Absolutely the last.”
It really might have been the last if
Robinson hadn’t arrived. He had the situa-
tion fully explained to him. but his conten-
tion, that as Jones had had his last drink
with Brown he couldn’t refuse to have a
last one with him, seemed to appeal to Jones.
A logical chap. Robinson.
Brown withdrew hurriedly to keep an
appointment, but said lie would lie back in
an hour or so. Just then Smithers and John-
son joined us. By the time Johnson had
shouted I thought the thing had gone far
•enough.
“Look here, Jones.” I reminded him.
“What about yom’ resolution? We’d better
get along.”
“Oh. no,” he returned. “You chaps must
have one with me now —and that’s the abso-
lute last. And I would cut that one out
only Brown will be back in a few minutes,
and he’d think it mean if he found we'd
gone.”
Somewhere towards midnight I took Jones
home. It was a rather tangled proceeding,
in which doorsteps and unnecessary* trams
and a strange hotel or so were vaguely
mixed; and I have a dim remembrance of
fried fish and chips. Everywhere Jones con-
fided his knowledge of the foolishness of
liquor and his resolution to drink no more.
Jones didn’t seem very clear about the
identification of his house, until he spotted
a milkjug with a cracked lip. Then he stood
on his doorstep and gave me a sort of fare-
well address.
“Old man,” he declaimed, “I’ve tak’n absho-
lute lars’ drink. \Sno good t’ any man, an’
I’ve cut it. ’F liadn’ been for thosh shaps
’sisting have a lars’ drink with them, I
wouldn’ have had any ’tall.”
“You damn fraud, Jones,” I said. “The
whole thing was your fault”
“’Sh, ole man! ’Sh!” whispered Jones
frenziedly. “Bear me out. ole shap, bear me
out! Th’ wife’s upstairs there, lishning.
“Couldn’ very well help rn’self to-day, ole
shap,” he said, continuing his declamation.
“But no more —’flexible resholution ! Never
’nother drops parsh lipsh o’ mine !”
In the cause of friendship I kept my end
up. I applauded his resolution in a loud
voice, said I would help him keep it, and men-
tioned the gold watch, suit of clothes, con-
versation-lollies, hairpins and the holiday
trip.
“Things for th’ wife!” said Jones enthu-
siast’cally. “Never ’nother penny on
whiskliie. Not a drop !”
“Tom,” called a voice from the upstairs
room —in the next house.
It was Jones’s opportunity. He knew now
that he had the audience he wanted, and,
ignoring the voice, he went enthusiastically
ahead with a description of his resolution
and his hatred of liquor.
A window next door opened.
“Tom.” said the voice, “why don’t you let
the people next door go to sleep, and come
into your own house? Tell your friend that
he ought to have been home long ago. There’s
no need to let the whole street know you’re
drunk!”
Seeing myself home was harder than the
job of seeing Jones to his mansion; and
when I got out of bed in the morning I
was feeling stiff and cold. A doorstep is not
the easiest bed to sleep in. I felt that I
needed invigoration, and sought it.
While I was invigorating, the door swung
and Jones entered.
“Hullo ! you’re up early !” I said.
“Didn’t give me any peace all night,” said
Jones, bitterly. .“Hardly been to sleep at
all. Bet’s have a drink.”
“But what about your resolution?” I said.
“This.” said Jones, “is going to be abso-
lutely the last.”
It wasn’t; but I really believe that if it
wasn’t for women few men would drink to
excess.
HAMER.
November Moonlight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IIE moon is up at half-past five,
She frightens me among the pines;
The moon, and only half-past five!
With half the ruddy day alive —
So soon, so high, so cold she shines,
This daylight moon among the pines.
The moon is walking in the wood,
Her face is very white and strange ;
The moon is coming through the wood,
Her face half-hidden in her hood —
Cold silver face whose hourly change
Blanches her cheek more white, more
strange.
The moon beneath a pine-tree stands;
Her weal-y face is full of dreams;
The moon by yonder pine-tree stands;
She builds a palace with her hands,
Pillars of silver, shafts and beams —
She builds a palace for her dreams.
The moon is sleeping in the trees,
So early is she tired of heaven ;
The moon is dreaming in the trees,
Her shepherd boy she sees, she sees!
Asleep, and it is only seven !
O moon that is so tired of heaven !
VICTORIA.
WILL C. KELLY.


estinghouse
(Morse)
mmm
],#
THE ROCKER-JOINT eliminates fric-
tion, and as there is no slip, power losses
are reduced to a minimum. Our chain
business is constantly increasing, prov-
ing that engineers are realising the
advantages to be gained by using
ROCKER-JOINT CHAINS.
Ask for Booklet 8.M.310 when making your
inquiry.
TheWestmghouse
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST. N.S.W. „
The Bulletin
To make tube screwing faster, easier
more
The Bulletin
OSTER Bulldog Die Stocks
the tools with five big features: (1) Self-locking, adjustable
dies, (2) self-centreing guides, (3) no running back over
newly-cut screws, (4) no loose bushings to lose, (5) no
breakable small parts. Eleven convenient sizes. Write
for catalog.
THE OSTER MFfi. CO., Cleveland, Ohio, 11.5. A.
Australasian Representative—
CHAS. <J. WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria.
Oster Screwing
Tackle, Dies
and Extra Parts
are carried in
stock by
ironmongers,
Machinery and
Hardware and
Plumbing
Supply Houses.
The Bulletin
If the saddle is not scientifically designed
your cycling comfort can never be
complete therefore always specify a
BROOKS
„ OF ALL DEALERS
\
\
RIBBEE
77YJRES
THREE
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO M Ltd,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO.. 129. KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.:
COLTON KROS , 212, MADRAS SIREKT.
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
The Bulletin
et}&
r
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. “Time tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. §uch a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10 (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14'
Saves sper cent, on
Automobile
Fire Insurance.
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
'.’■'imMMoitraUri';
m
m
©
BROODY HENS for 12/0.
The “HATCHO” 16-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tim Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
SSSM.
This vice has a slide traversed by an ordinary screw. Both jaws move simul-
taneously. by right- and left-hand screw, being self-centring. Jaws are of cast
steel. Width of jaw sin., opening to Clin. Traverse of slide 9in. Weight 1321 b.
-Ksf
Price JEB.
Australian-made
Rack and Pinion
Jacks.
The Bulletin
Superior Quality to the old Continental make, Double Action I tail way Pattern.
Capacities—3 and 6 tons. Useful for erecting machinery, removing houses, bridge-
building, etc. Prices on application.
We Manufacture
Bolts and Nuts
of every description, and will be pleased
to quote you Bolts in any quantity.
We make Coach, Engine,
Service and Pump Bolts, Nuts,
Coach Screws, Set Screws, Bolt
Ends, Tie Rods, Rivets, etc.
We specialise in contractors' require-
ments, such as for Bridge und Pier
Building, etc.
Contractors to the various State Rail-
ways, Government Departments, and all
leading Mining and Engineering Com-
panies throughout Australasia.
M^PfiersoiV§)
Proprietary Ltd.
MACHINERY, IRON AND TOOL
MERCHANTS
AND BOLT MANUFACTURERS.
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE - VICTORIA*
And • 51-65 Bathurst Street,
SYDNEY - N. S* WALES.
The Bulletin
Forged from One Solid
Piece of Steel.
Our Anvils are forged from one solid piece of
Swedish Steel. The face is hardened and tempered
by a patented process, and it is impossible for any
part to crack and fall off, like so often happens
with the ordinary “built up’’ anvils.
Seven tons supplied to the Victorian Government
for the Newport Workshops.
)3 to 28 lb.
9d. lb.
58 to 113 lb.
50 - cwt.
29 to 57 lb.
Bd. lb.
Over 113 lb.
45/- cwt.
Blacksmiths’ Staple
Vices
From 27/- each.


THe All-Australian
'er Transmitter.
ifrIANGRQVrrEg
•HKV ~
LEATHER
The Bulletin
which is used exclusively by th»
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
■l'ft
(Pspf
&
IT
MARK
WAR*.:: ;? XC
m :
p rill
*
"AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE Brand
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen from Best Sheffield
Crucible Cast-Steel Plates. Sizes 6in. dia. to 72in. dia.
BAND-SAWS, Ys to 134 wide.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALITY.
IRON AND STEEL FOR MACHINE KNIVES.
R 62 SPECIAL MILL-SAW FILES.
Testimonial from an Australian Saymiller: —“When
I bought that 42in. saw from you I - also got some
Special Files. Have you any morfc 7 There is none
other that we have used to hold a candle to them.”
Eagle & Globe
Australian
Offices—
379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle;
I Brisbane: John Reid & Nephews; Adelaide: Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.
Sheffield, England.
HARDIE’S
GENUINE
“FIBRO-CEMENT”
Sheets & Slates for all Building Purposes
“REXILITE”
Flat Roofing and Dampcourse
(Approved by Public Works Department).
P¥s©i*H^
The Bulletin
For Interior Walls anti Ceilings.
Write for Samples from
JAMES NARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildings
Brisbane; and at Adelaide. '
The Bulletin
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
Tangye Portable Lampless Oil Engine.
“Buncle” Chaffcutters
We beg to notify Farmers
and Chaff cutting Con-
tractors that we are now
SOLE AGENTS for New
South Wales for above
celebrated Cutters, and
are in a position to Supply
various types and sizes of
these well-known
Machines promptly on re-
ceipt of order.
Clayton & Shuttlcworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Write us for illustrated and descriptive Catalogues.
One of the above Cutters, driven by either a TANG YE LAMPLESS OIL
ENGINE or CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam Engine, forms an
ideal CHAFFCUTTING PLANT, and will give wonderful satisfaction.
So/e Agents—
Jua£i
9
STD
Tangye Oil Engine driving Centrifugal Pump for
Mif/or's Point, Sydney.
Tangye Pumps and Irrigation Plants.
Nicholson & Morrow Farm Implements.
Wolseley Sheep-shearing Machines.
E.R.B. Separator Engines.
E.R.B. Farm Pump Engines.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
m
mm
m.
.mi
Wolseley 1-, 2- or 3-Stand Crutch-
ing Attachment affixed to Wolseley
Engine.
IN STOCK FOR IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
Crutching
Machines
are what you how need to overcome
the evil effects of the noxious Blow-
fly.
Wolseley Crutelling Plants are all
of the standard Wolseley pattern—
famous for ease of operation, relia-
bility and efficiency.
Write for descriptive folder, post
free.
Dalgety ®, Co. Ltd.,
Australasian Agents.
All Branches.
f
\
If you are interested, write for
our catalogue, giving full
description and capacities .
PARKE O, LACY CO. LTD.,
CENTRIFUGAL Pumps
FOR THE STATION, FARM or DAIRY.
Have you considered the advantages of installing one of these
little Pumps on your property? It means an efficient water
supply at low cost of installing.
Especially adaptable for Irrigation Purposes, General Water
Supply, Tank filling, Factory Use, etc.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St«, Sydney, N.S.W.
George Ellison —Birmingham.
Maker of High-class Circuit Breakers, A.G. Starting Gear and
Crane Control Gear of all descriptions.
Totally Enclosed Oil Break Circuit Breakers.
improved Vertical and Traction Type Air Break Circuit Breakers.
Autotransformer Starting Panels for Squirrel Cage Induction Motors.
Totally Enclosed Oil Immersed Metallic Rotor Starters for Slip Ring Induction Motors.
ALL BRITISH MADE.
Sole Agents
for Australia :
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, Sydney.
