

DEWAR’S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
Machinery Merchants, 10*7 lEs^en."t Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Satnnm Reqmsrtes.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts ot New South Wales. Netvan eco ~
C.S.D.
cjfe OcUfance,
Si«i L ‘sPs&iSffiK f
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE P ETE Dtjfjl.C? LTP
office: 74 castle reagh st Sydney 74
Next to "Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Gastlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR SO-PAGE BOOK,
L OSCILLATING
WAIX
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY,
fGOUD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
BEDS
For tn- and Out-door Sleeping,
American Wall Bed 'Co,,
380 Georgre Street, near Q.P.0., Sydney
s*
Hlllloi\s
6acoi\
die, ■ »
dgsdggsd
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
unket,
gsd
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
g
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
t
1
I
Royal
Dutch
I
SUPERIOR
everyway*
M ALTHOID
Is better Dampcourse.
99
“Not the same as others.
Because of absolute permanence ; because years of
great compression does not affect it; because it is
always damp-proof —are but three of many reasons
why it pays to use Malthoid Datnpcourse.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company <D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager),
CHallis House, Sydney.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
nu
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL s.v.o
Gilbert lodge&Cb
"SON 1)1 11V JO SlOOl OIJLVINfHNd pu« f SH3IIIHQ
‘saaiania ouvranaNd aaoia
WE HAVE STOCKS ON HAND.
109 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
115-117 William Street.
MELBOURNE.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth"
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 38.—N0. 1935.]
[Thursday, March 15, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Co'
UCP
SS
VSS
XS^
335*2
sfc>
sees
«3W
w-
Siris C\it Gold Bars
A High-grade Virginian Tobacco that will
not bite the tongue.
Specially Prepared and Packed in- Hermeti-
cally-sealed lib. and -11 b. Tins, which ensures
delivery in perfect condition.
lib. Tins, 8/-; Postage, lid.
%lb. Tins, 4/-; Postage, 6d.
An Ideal Smoke for the Troops Abroad. We
Pack as per G.P.O. Regulations FREE, and
forward same on receipt of address and P.N
_ value 9/_ f or lib., or 4/7 for y 2 lb. tins.
A Sample 2oz. Tin forwarded anywhere Post Paid for 1/2
A. KEBBLEWHITE, Cigar & Cigarette Merchant,
“The Old Established House,” 19 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The Round Table
DECEMBER, 1910.
A REVIEW of British and Dominion Politics.
The Dominions and the British War Council.
Necessity for Constitutional Reform. Higher Direc-
tion of British Industry. The Labor Point of Vieiv.
Trade Union Congress. Australia. India. Ireland
since the Rebellion. 2/6 per copy; 10/- per annum.
MACMILLAN & CO., Melbourne.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
1*
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
fiv.'
&
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H.,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward 9d. in stamps
for full •size tin.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
n
. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
T he Red page
Tho Crowd
Gustave le Bon practically discovered for
us the crowd, and since his first book various
author! have investigated its characteristics.
no of the best of such studies is Martin
yonway s The Crowd in Peace and War
(lionginans, (freen, per Dymock’s Library).
e all. are part of crowds; we all contribute
to that extra-human thing called the crowd-
soul. Lor the crowd has a soul of its own.
Lvery Australian is part of all sorts
or crowds: the Australian crowd, the school
ciowd, the Empire crowd, the temporary
crowd in the street, the theatre crowd, the
political crowd, the religious or anti-reli-
gious crowd, the social crowd, the trades
union, the professional crowd, the
Argus crowd, Tiie Bulletin crowd, the
poultry-farmers’ crowd, the Win-the-War
crowd, the Anzac crowd. The minimum
number of individuals that can form a
crowd, that can merge itself into the one
organisation, is . 12. The author suggests
that our jury of 12 has been arrived at as
the minimum number that can normally be
relied upon to act . collectively as a crowd.
A cr»wd hypnotises its members to behave
as one organism. The wdiole aim of drill is
to absorb the soldier’s, individuality, when
necessary, into the crowd-squl. The Hun
is the finest crowd-maker of them all; he is
trained to become a crowd; when he mur-
ders or rapes he is no longer an individual:
he is part of the sort of crowd he has been
carefully drilled into being.
The reason why a collective body of
human beings differs from so many indivi-
duals is because no two individuals can ever
think alike, whilst any number can feel
alike. For a crowd has all the emotions,
but no intellect. It can feel, but it cannot
think. People are absorbed into a crowd
by a process purely emotional. Political
parties are not the incorporation of any
reasoned set of opinions or theories, but
only of a group of emotions. Views and
theories can reside only in a brain, and that
no crowd possesses.
And this new kind of beast, the crow T d, acts
according to its instinct. It is always
intolerant; it has highly developed the in-
stinct of self-preservation ; it fears freedom
of speech, for an orator might be able to
create a crowd adverse to it. It need's ~a
leader, since only through a voice can it
t -pr/vK S itse]f. Conway defines, tliree kinds
of crowd-leaders; .crowd-coinpellers, crowd-
exponents, crowd-representatives. There are
few of the first class, the men that create
and make the crowd do their bidding—
Napoleon will do for an easy example. The
erowd-eompeller gives a brain to the brain-
less body of his crowd. So far, the species
does not seem to have been evolved in Aus-
tralia. But we possess several specimens
of the crowd-exponent. “The crowd-expo-
nent is the man who feels by sympathetic
insight and mere sensitiveness of nature as
the crowd feels or is going to feel, and who
expresses in clear language the emotion of
the dumb organism. For all the ideas of a
crowd are necessarily of a vague emotional
sort and can only be expressed by them
in the form of shouts or actions of approval
or dissent.” He may be a speaker, or a
writer, or a group of newspaper writers —
but whatever he is he is the voice of the
crowd, and his utterance is really theirs.
“He is by nature akin to an artist.” His
job is not to think out the solution of some
difficult problem in the privacy of his study,
and then go forth and proclaim a new
gospel to an unwilling world. He waits
till he senses the vague feeling of the crowd,
and then says with eloquence and enthu-
siasm what they are unable to say. “Where-
upon they raise him aloft with loud applause
and worship him like a god because his voice
ha° 'giver, Lhem words and enabled the
crowd to realise its own mighty, if vague
and ill-defined, existence and power.... The
crowd merely as it were sniffed around Win-
ston Churchill, recognised him immediately
as one of its own sort, wagged its tail, and
game to heel.” So Lloyd George is the most
prominent and powerful crow’d-exponent in
our day. “He has never manifested any
trace of an individual mind or of indepen-
dent thought.” But he has perfectly voiced
the ideas of his crowd. One of the charac-
teristics of a crowd-exponent is that his
emotions respond as sensitively to those of
a crowd as ever a barometer to changes in
atmospheric pressure. And another is that
he is the typically ambitious man. The
approval of the crowd is the breath of his
life. Once he has tasted its savor he cannot
live without the incense of crowd-approval.
Anybody mention Hughes? Or Holman?
Crowd-representatives are less interesting.
The King is one ; his job is merely to ex-
press the crowd emotion. Accidents occur
every day, but the crowd takes no notice.
Let a great accident kill at once enough
men to look like a crowd, the public feels
the wound, and its royal spokesman ex-
presses the public emotion. “The publication
by Darwin of The Origin of Species was a
far more important event in the world’s his-
tory than the opening of docks at Liverpool;
but the one was the act of an individual
addressing indi iduals. the other the con-
cern of the crowd.” So royalty gave public
recognition only to the latter. Hughes and'
Woodrow Wilson have both expressed the
view that their job is to do as democracy
tells, them- And government by public
opinion, crowd-government, must possess all
the qualities of a crowd. As this is the sort
of government Australians ..suffer under,
there is no need to stress this point. The
instinct of all crowds is to dominate, to
capture and overwhelm the individual, to
make him its slave, to absorb all his life for
its service. An organised crowd sets the
interests of the many before those of the
individual, and it is always the superior
individual whom the crowd destroys and the
inferior whom it fosters. “If some are not
to drink, all must not drink. If some are
to be slow workers, all must be slow workers.
AH must be depressed to the level which all
can reach, inevitably a low level.”
As one of the fundamental characteristics
or crowds is~ to expand indefinitely, like a
living organism, every crowd hates all other
similar crowds. Conway cites the hostility of
organised Christian religious bodies. Also
neighboring towns.” The love that is mislaid
between Sydney and Melbourne is an apt
Australian illustration of crowd hostility. So
ail independent nations are mutually hostile
u° another. I n times of peace this
hostility is latent; but this inherent hostility,
a crowd-characteristic, is the cause of war.
If all the nations of the earth are not
always fighting it is not because they don’t
want to, but because they have other' things
to do and. also because they are restrained
by the action of contrary forces.” A state
of war is the natural condition of independ-
ent crowds. That is the difference between
the individual and a crowd. If these crowds
are united by alliance under any kind of
over-crowd, war would not occur.' Thus so
j, on B as the crowds known as Dominions
teel themselves united under the over-crowd
called Empire, there will be no war within
the Empire. “Armageddon will be the last
battle between the last two over-crowds into
which the world will some day consolidate.”
Enthusiasm for humanity shows no signs of
becoming a crowd characteristic and there-
fore a guarantee for world peace. The only
event that would, for centuries yet, unite
the whole race into one over-crowd would
be the threat of invasion from another
planet.
a. book for the “Red Page” crowd.
According to Gerald Stanley Dee, author
of We (Allen, per Dymock’s Library), there
are differences in English, American and
German crowds. “An English crowd is
round, and shaped a good deal like a bomb.”
An English crowd refuses to stay a crowd.
It explodes into individuals. “The only
really safe crowd on this earth is an Eng-
lish crowd. It is safe because no English-
man proposes to be mixed up with any other
Englishman more than a minute if it can
possibly be helped.” An American crowd
is wedge-shaped, and any force applied to
it only drives all of it together, further and
harder together. “An American crowd is
like a cartridge. A German crowd is shaped
like a hammer, with the Kaiser for a handle.
Germans allow themselves to be placed in
neat, orderly squares fitting closely to-
gether, where they can be easily handled.
A German crowd is comparatively safe be-
cause it can be counted on and because it
has a handle. An English crowd is com-
paratively safe because the first thing an
English crowd does is to blow itself apart.
An American crowd blows itself into a
thousand thousand smithereens of being
more of a crowd than ever.” The emotional
American never feels himself happy unless
he is a crowd.
Harold Bell Wright, the super-best-seller
of the U.S.A., hastens to proffer his own ver-
sion, of “How to Write a Best-Seller.” In
N.Y. Bookman, we learn that When a
Man’s a Man has taxed the capacity of “the
largest fiction factory in Chicago,” over
5000 copies having been sent out and sold
daily. The largest fiction factory himself
attributes his wqnderful popularity to the
alleged fact that his work—and he says it
with all modesty—is “the structural steel,
the anatomy, and this I clothe with what
I call life. If you put solid bones in your
story, have real ribs and real femurs and
real tibias, you have a real groundwork to
build upon. With such a groundwork there
is no difficulty in fiction-writing, provided
you use good understandable English.
People will recognise this instantly and you
will be a successful novelist. .. .After my
first novel the stories kept crowding in upon
me. I could hardly keep my mind off them,
they clamored so for attention. I wrote
The Calling of Dan Matthews with one hand
and The Winning of Barbara Worth with
the other.” He had been a pastor, “but
when I came to see that I could reach a
larger congregation with my books than
from my pulpit I gave up the ministry.”
When a Man’s a Man was written in 13
weeks, against doctor’s orders, for his ribs
had been broken in a motor-accident. “By'
working very hard and fast I finished the
135,000 words, and all the pictures, went
out to the- cross-triangle ranch, where the
scenes were laid, read the story to the Dean
and the cowboys for their technical criticism,
made the corrections they suggested”—"and
thus fulfilled his publisher’s contract. You
see how easy it is!
Australian
truest Scott, History Professor at Mel-
bourne University, writes a lucid and well-
balanced Short History of Australia (Ox-
ford University Press, 3s. 6d.). It “begins
with a blank space on the map, and ends
with the record of a new name on the map,
that of Anzac.” The author, however,
opens up a debatable question when he states
that: “History is a record of the doings
of men living in communities, not of blind,
nerveless forces.” Scott’s recognition of
the importance of literature in history is
given emphasis in his chronology.
In 1859, the only two outstanding events
mentioned are: Colony of Queensland pro-
claimed and the publication of Kingsley’s
Geoffrey Hamlyn. In 1870 the British
troops were withdrawn from Australia and
Adam Lindsay Gordon died. One of the
four events of 1574 was the publication of
Clarke’s For the Term of His Natural Life;
and in the three events mentioned for 1877,
the publication of Bruuton Stephen’s poem,
The Dominion of Australia, has place. In
1895 the Victorian Wages Board system
was established, and Paterson published The
Man from Snowy River; while in 1896 the
only interesting event that is worthy of men-
tion in Australia was the publication of
Lawson’s In the Days When the World Was
Wide. In the history itself, however, Aus-
tralian literature is but briefly discussed, and
a silence is preserved of the recent develop-
ments of our literature—in this respect
Arthur W. Jose’s History of Australasia,
though published earlier, is more up-to-date
- —while Scott introduces us to a new Aus-
tralian poet, Bargrave Boake. The early
maps of Australia, or of the place where
Australia ought to have been, are a valu-
able feature of the little volume. In one
16th century map the cartographer has
filled in the blank space of Terra Australis
by a white elephant, evidently foreseeing the
Territory. But none of these early guesses
about Australia is so unlike the real place as
the small map of Australia that forms part
of the decoration of the cover. This blotch
of black, surrounded by a bright yellow sea,
may also have a prophetic aspect, though the
designer might have remembered that Bass
and r finders proved that Tasmania was an
island, and that no bridge has been built
across Bsss Strait. However, the history is
admirably written, and with the aid of an
engaging and iliuminativ- style SfiQ.tt makes
our romantic history even more
Another Professor of History, G. C. Hen-
derson, of Adelaide University, publishes a
course of lectures recently delivered in S.A.
upon The British Navy at War (Hassell,
Adelaide; Is., proceeds for a patriotic fund).
The subject is rapidly but carefully covered
in 12 chapters. The author writes with
clarity and a comprehensive knowledge of
his subject, and though he brings no new in-
formation to bear, nor discusses naval
strategy in any detail, he admirably pictures
for his readers the composition and value of
the navy, the new developments arising
from Germany’s violation of the laws of
humanity, and the meaning and value of the
British control of the sea.
A third Professor, R. F. Irvine, who holds
the chair of Economics at Sydney Univer-
sity, advances a remarkable theory of the
meaning of money— The Veil of Money
(The Review, Sydney), a paper read
before the N.S.W. Actuarial Society. He
points out that modern banking is built
wholly on a principle which in the 17th and
18th centuries was stigmatised as dishonest
and illegal; and that modern bankers still
are mistaken in maintaining that all bank
currency is ultimately based on their hold-
ing of gold. “We have reached a stage in
the evolution of money, in which the greater
part of the money-work of the world is done
by devices which have little in common with
the commodity money with which we started.
.... Gold used as a medium of exchange is
only an alternative, used on rare and special
occasions, for credit.... Money to-day is
immaterial and almost ideal. It can be
created and cancelled in millions without
any risk or loss, and with a rapidity and
ease impossible to any material money....
The real substance of credit, and therefore of
the greater part of modern money, is not
gold, but simply the wealth of individuals
subject to legal claim. Ido not deny that
some portion of any particular monetary
system may be based on holdings of gold.
I admit that in certain cases gold is still
necessary as a medium of exchange, but
compared with the vast sum of exchange
transactions effected without the use of gold,
these cases become almost negligible. But I
do deny that gold can in any real sense be
regarded as the basis of modern money, and
I am sure that its use as currency will be
more and more restricted.” The development
of this theory, which the author asserts is
not novel to advanced students, is extremely
interesting, since R. F. Irvine discusses its
relation to the huge war loans now being
raised, their meaning and their bearing upon
the financial and material stability of the
warring nations, and analyses exactly what
happens when a man puts, say, £lOOO in the
Australian War Loan. The pamphlet cer-
tainly demands the attention of our finan-
ciers, bookies’ clerks and presidents of two
up schools. LWO '
Jt
~C f - L Beeston, who commanded
the 4th I leld Ambulance, A.1.F., tells of his
Five Months at Ansae (Angus and Robert
son; 2s. (id.). Necessarily he covers familiar
ground, but his comments are shrewd and
terse, and he fully appreciates the humor of
Billzac. One of the curious things that
struck him was a new sort of shelf. This
shell came over the Red Cross quarters and
it looked different, being seeminglv formed of
paper and black rag. A shell* had burst
among the mules near by and the resultant
hurtling mass was merely mule. Luckily it
did not explode.
There are interesting photographs.
Jt
A. B. Piddington collects his Spanish
Sketches (Oxford University Press; 55.)
which appeared some years ago in a Sydney
daily. The author writes charmingly of
Spanish and Moorish art and architecture,
while the photographic illustrations give the
volume a value of their own. Of Velasquez
he has much to say that is illuminative. The
wonderful architecture of Toledo, Cordova,
Seville and Granada is fully illustrated and
interpreted, while an essay upon Columbus
in Seville is full of matter. It is interesting to
recall, thanks to the author, that Columbus,
since his death, has hardly stopped travel-
ling. Columbus wished to be buried in Santo
Domingo. But he was buried at Valladolid,
then moved to the Chartreuse in Seville, then
to Santo Domingo, and when the French
took Ilayti the body was taken to Havana
Cathedral. Now he has come back to Seville.
As Piddington says : “What a voyager!”
(G. Innes, who forwards this fine example
of Billzac verse, states that it was composed
in a trench in France, not for publication
but for the eyes of the author’s parents. The
author is Corporal G. B. Crerar, Machine
Gun Section, 6th Infantry Brigade, A.1.F.)
WHAT BILLZAO READS.
John O. Cannon, somewhere in France: Your
opinion that the bulk of the reading matter is
unsuitable is correct. I have unpacked many cases
marked “Literature.” In the newspaper class the
publications most commonly found are: The Aus-
tralian Journal, The Family Herald., Tiie War
Cry. These appeal only to about 2 per cent, of the
fellows. There are also a few copies of The Bulle-
tin, The Referee and Australian dailies. As pack-
ages of this kind reach us some months after the
mail, copies received by post have rendered them
out of date. The novels are mostly English of the
pre-war era. Hocking, Garvice and Effie Adelaide
Somebody are the favorites of the senders. The
man who would read this stuff has read it avant la
guerre. The ordinary man thinks more here than
he did in civil life. He hasn’t a girl to take out or
a football match to watch. He sees a man blown
up and perhaps an identity disc buried to represent
him. This makes him think about the mystery of
death. I’ve lent my copy of Omar Khayyam to
men whom I didn’t expect to read it, but they have.
Extracts from Tennyson are also sought after. Aus-
tralian poetry -would be read by those who merely
glanced at it in civil life, and glanced at, at least,
by those who had not even heard of it before. I’ve
not met The Sentimental Bloke in a box of “litera-
ture” yet, but over 70 per cent, of our fellows have
read the one copy we possess. The chap who
received a copy of Ginger Mick has it promised to
over 20 already. Nobody has been guilty of book-
ing The War Cry in advance. If the kind
people who pack the eases of literature were
to send modern novels, Australian poetry and an
occasional volume of classical English, their choice
would be appreciated in addition to their kindness.
Fritz sends his love.
UP AND DOWN THE DUCK-BOARDS.
Up and down the duck-hoards, up and down
again,
Blinkin’ at the star-shells failin’ in the rain;
Thinkin’ of the rations, if they’re gettin’ wet;
Thinkin’ if there’s any rum, and how much
we will get;
Thinkin’ if a bullet hurts —if there’s any
pain—
Yowl Here comes a hleedin’ homb
Up and down again!
Up and down the duck-hoards, screwin’ at
the moon,
Musin’ on the bally strafe we got this after-
noon;
Thinkin’ how explosives make you jump and
shake and sweat j -
Thinkin’ how you duck and run and hug the
parapet;
Thinkin’ of the next one—-if it’s joy or
pain. ...
Hell, it’s gettin ’ hotter!
Duck, and off again!
Up and down the duck-hoards, good and had
and worn.
From “siand-to” in the evenin’, till “carry
on” at morn;
Thinkin’ all the bloomin’. things you never
thought before;
Thinkin’ of the stunt last night, and feelin’
pretty sore;
Thinkin' you’ll chuck thinkin’ up, before you
turn insane;
Two whizz-bangs, a nine-two-eight,
And then you think again.


w aae
X
No. 5147. —A well-shaped Model
for the average figure, l° w
bust, in White Coutil trimmed
with neat washing embroidery, 4
suspenders. Sizes 21 to 28 7/11
IZOD’S CORSETS are made by an old=established
English firm of corset manufacturers to suit the Austra=
lian types of figure. They are perfect fitting, and will
give absolute satisfaction. From the lowest to the high=
est priced there is the same careful attention given to
selection of material, cut and finish.
No. 5374. A very fine White Coutil
Corset, with vibonite boning, for
tall, fully-d eveloped
figures; medium bust', slightly
raised back, with extra cross bon-
ing, reinforced with light-weight
abdominal belt, finished with silk
scalloped fanned top ; 4 suspenders.
Sizes 22 to 30 .... 19/11
)\ Model for
Every Figure.
0
Duplex Boning.
0
Will not break,
ruxt or tear.
2>i
SSf-
mm
No. 5163. —For the medium to
tall figure of average
build, medium-height bust, in
White Coutil, strongly boned,
embroidery trimming • 4 sus-
penders. Sizes 22 to 30 8/11
No. 5149. —For the short,
matronly type of figure,
strong treble boning and wedge
busk, in White Coutil, trimmed
with washing embroidery; 4 sus-
penders. Sizes 22 to 30 7/11
No. 5350. —A flue, soft-finish
Coutil Model for the average
figure, medium boning, low bust
graduating into a higher back, with
extra cross bone at the shoulder;
silk embroidered fanned top, 4
suspenders. Sizes 21 to 28—
16/11
wmws
Mi
No. 5371. —A handsome Model in
Mercerised Jean, with silk em-
broidered spot and silk scallop top,
for medium to tall figures,
with well-sprung, medium-height
bust graduating to a higher shoul-
der ; very strongly boned; 4 sus-
penders. Sizes 22 to 30 14/II
are the Highest
Standard made
0
They will stand
washing.
No. 5314. —For the slight
Maid’s figure, lightly boned
and low bust, in Mercerised Jean
with Embroidered Silk' Spot, fin-
ished at top and bottom with a
dainty Silk Scallop; 4 suspenders.
Sizes 20 to 24 12/11
No. 5375. Model in Silk Brocade,
with medium boning, low bust
graduating to high shoulder, for
medium to tall figures,
honed with Vibonite; 4 sus-
penders ; embroidery trimming
and silk. Sizes 20 to 26
20/11
O. 5308. A double-skirt Batiste
Model, for average to stout
figures, with treble boning in
front: bust well sprung and
medium height, graduating to a
higher shoulder; 4 suspenders.
Sizes 22 to 36 10/11
No. 5188. A good shaping Model
for the average figure, low
bust, extra treble honing .at hack,
in White Coutil, with embroidery
trimming; 4 suspenders. Sizes 21
to 26 . ■ 8/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


tsiii iiiiifliiimiii
sdg
Shotgun Shells
“Leader” and “Repeater”
For the high flyers, or the low flyers,
“Leader” and “Repeater” shells have
the reach, spread and penetration.
Their great sale is due to these qual-
ities, which insure a full bag. Use them
in your gun. To be sure to get them
ASK FOR THE W BRAND
Jg
4
rn
Work up the lather with wet
brush Q don't use fingers.)
At% tb* ’
, O el
a'"
k e 6t
'v/J.
The New Way to Shave
Just three simple operations and your shaving is
done. No impatient calling for “hotwater”—no
soapmg-up ’in a mug—no mussy “rubbing-in” with
the fingers. The rich abundant lather of
SHAVING CREAM
simplifies these operations. No
smarting burning after-effects.
Mennen s contains no free caustic
or other irritant to torture or dis-
figure your face.
Mennen’s saves you time and
torture. It leaves your face soft,
cool, comfortable and refreshed.
Use it and you will realize that you
have been wrongfully blaming your
razor the secret of a good shave
is the lather.
Mennen’s Shaving Cream is
put up in airtight, sanitary tubes
with handy hexagon screw tops.
Prove its value. Try it, that is
the only way to find out what it
will do for you.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St., Sydney, N. S. W.
<©
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
-There are no teeth like those furnished hv rn
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with * °,! f rv \ ce ’ comfort and good
Sensible people will accordingly try their T’
keeping them clean. Cold water and * teeth as ]°?S as possible by
SUCh aS CUttle4 > crude 3 and S< charcoal
the (tSl-clean S 1 - clean thc “*«■> sweeten
S EN^ti^T/r e Ef dcd f‘“^
wnere. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. EOCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
federal, lorries
Acknowledged Superior
D avi s SU & ° h Co r FeSaST 8 C °- 8 “
EEDEKALS have earned a world-wide reputation, and to-day the\
o^e°r P s er g m manJ ’ everywhere giving satisfaction to S
These firms are known internationally— and when they selected
S™ir;^r ased eede^ls - uss
Drive exdu a keiy* ieS_l H *+ 2 to “’ ** ton - ™ d 6 *»n. Worm
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Uedal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
p* are you
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW- it is
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-’
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Anplianee.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
an y° u as k or more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WNSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
Ml
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold at Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow & London
*?•STEVENS, Cycle Manufacturer and Expert, in business at
' in S Street, Newtown, N.S.W., and residing privately at 32 Jersey
Road, Woollahra, writes—May 31, 1916 of
CLEMENTS TONIC
j. ..^ r \ Stevens is a noted English and Australian athlete, having won many
distinguished races and trophies in Australia. Here is his letter in part:—
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“One of the worst forms of taxation is that of ill-health. In this competitive
a o e, a man needs to be at his best. I won my first race at the age of 20, and I
am still hale and hearty, only that I am sometimes troubled by want of sleep.
iwL 1S Cle “®nts Tonic comes in to my relief. Before I have taken half a
bottle of that medicine I sleep splendidly and wake up fresh and well, quite ready
foi a good meal and prepared to face a good hard day’s work at my business.
“(Signed) W. B. STEVENS.”
Mr. FREDERICK C. CROUCH, 51 Moncur Street, Woollahra, Sydney,
writes 20/4/ 16 that he is perfectly agreeable that this letter should be
published, which is given by his wife, because she has derived so much
benefit from this medicine:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
I or a considerable period I suffered from loss of appetite, extreme nervous-
ness and poorness of blood. A friend recommended Clements Tonic. I obtained
a supply and I have derived great benefit. I feel perfectly safe in recommending
your tonic to anyone similarly affected. You may use this letter as you think fit.
“(Signed) Mrs. E. M. CROUCH.”
. This is the kind of letter to appeal to all men and women, for it proves that,
in cases of mental and physical exhaustion caused through overwork and excess of
any kind, this reliable tonic restores strength rapidly. Send for it if vou are ill
from Constipation, Loss of Sleep, Biliousness, Poor Appetite, Low Spirits, Weak
Kidneys or Neuralgia. All Chemists and Stores sell it.
This Medicine is regarded by some as the
Twin-brother of Health.
In cases of Poor Blood, M asting Weakness, Debility, Loss of Rest, Poor
Appetite, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Low Spirits, Insomnia, Constipation, Liver
or Kidney iHlments, OLLMLNTS TONIC is most reliable for giving the system
strength. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT. It is only another name
for health.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause—and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by , a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. 11ns acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with loug 1
edges, settles in the joints and muscles anc
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys, and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out ot the
system.
Mi
w
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
und not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a muddy bluish color —a feature which dis-
tinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief —every
time. A permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. Od.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badl>
you have suffered.
DeWITTS
Kidney Pills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
“CASHMORE”
PIGEON GUN
A new model issued by this favorite
maker just before the war. Our con-
tracts placed us right on price, and
whilst the stock lasts you can have
the benefit of “old rates.”
No. 1194 in our catalog is a splen-
did value side clip pigeon gun with
Greener Cross bolt, full choke barrels,
2fin. chambers, Flat file cut rib,
-l-pistol hand, Walnut stock.
At English catalog price,
£ll.
This and many others are in our 60-page gun
catalog No. 7.
ALCOGK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. It. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W-,
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect ; all mv former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action. Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through 'he use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
N. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
u
VELVOLINF
A Cool, Creamy Application for
Hot Winds. Heat and Cold. Sooth-
ing and Cooling for the Skin
ALL CHEMISTS
1/6 BOTTLE
SYDNEY
OR POST FREE
/ '
BONNINGTON & CO. Ltd.
<79 HARRIS ST.f [
sdg
The Great Preventive fl
of Mosquito, Sandfly
other Insect Bites
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINCTON & CO., LTD.
17» HARRIS ST . SV
V
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Tost Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
CELEBRATED
9.
/
8
CT-
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
bv the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young— hard or soft, anil
that remedy is ACORN SILK, winch
removes the worst Corn in -a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure _it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a bandy cuie
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Solti in packets, Gd. ea<jh, ° r posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—•
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T L Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. 11
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s !
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
sdg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
sd
'' / /
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its history
THE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
gsd
per bottle
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents.
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pinch-gut.
Amber and opal, jade and amethyst,
Mazed in a dancing mesh of living gold.
How well she wears her gems, this velvet-
stoled .
Barbaric harbor queen ! Bold brow and wrist
And bosom bound by many a blazing twist ;
The royal scarabs on her vestments scrolled
Flashing through veil and wimple’s shimmer-
ing fold
Like magian shuttles threading moonstone
mist.
And, set in many a coruscating querl,
In some strange spirit of sardonic jest.
A thing of hate and sweat and blood and
tears, . .
(Jrim deep-sea growth of dumb despairing
years, , , ,
The costliest jewel on Port Jackson s breast,
Old Pinch-gut darkles like a great black
pearl.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
All or Nothing.
Lean over the fence and kiss? Not I!
If the tide,leaped up to a kiss
The fence were a bar too low —
Or the kiss was a lie !
And a kiss that’s a lie is none
When everything’s said and done.
Lean over the fence and kiss?
Philander and play the fool?
Blood that is blood is hotter than this,
Or life were easy to school!
Lean over the fence and kiss? I? Never!
Scorn to your safe-to-lean-over!
Half-and-half lover!
Give me the kiss that is all,-
Or nothing, for ever.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
Love.
Love, I have sought thee long. Where is thy
evening?
In what remote recess, what palmy plot.
Sweet, to my eyelids the tear-founts aie
welling, .
Why dost thou banish me, why claim me
not?
Built I a palace for thine own abiding,
Fashioned it fragrantly with mine own
hands —■
Ah ! but a 'spectre I found therein hiding.
Strewing the pathways with colorless sands,
Haunting the heavens with sorrow compel-
ling,
Rapture and laughter in terror dispelling.
Wandered I forth through the valley of
morning,
Down where the dews of delight filled me
through,
Day on the hillocks her hair was adorning.
Binding her tresses with blossoms of blue.
There by the mellowy margins retiring
Seated with Youth, for thy coming I spied,
Tempe were mine in that sunny desiring,
Love, hadst thou lingered a while by my
side; ,
Love, hadst thou gathered me out ot the
morning,
Nought of my loving so splendidly scorning.
Into the chasm of night I am falling,
Love, on my eyes are the shadows of sleep!
When wilt thou answer my passionate call-
ing? „
When through my portal in sympathy creep r
Scented my hair for thy fingers’ caressing,
Blossomed my lips as a rose of the south ;
I am a slave for thy constant possessing,
Bread for thy body and wine for thy mouth.
Love, wilt thou vanish beyond my recalling/
Sip not a moment the sweetness enthralling i
Never, ah never, O love of my dreaming.
Earth gave a lover thy infinite charms—
Eyes with the sunlights of Paradise gleam-
ing.
Pressure of God in thy soft-curvfed arms.
Time, with my soul, as a priestess adoring,
Came to my chamber at close of the day.
Sat there and sang to me, comfort restoring,
Drying my tears with the lilt of her lay,
Singing that Love through the darkness is
beaming. ...
Come to me, Love, for I weary of dreaming.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
A Geographical Lyric.
This is the map of the world.
llow it tangles and blurs!
Mountains on mountain chains curled —■
And all of it ought to be hers!
Continents set for her feet.
Empires to cushion her head ;
And a jewel-bright lake, burnished blue for
her sake,
To bathe her white limbs should be spread.
A necklace of islands to wear,
With a coraline one
To set in the dark of her hair,
Aflash with a tropical sun.
Greenland to fan her cheek cool,
Etna for cold .winter days;
And each longitude line with its polar incline
To use as a busk for her stays.
Silk of green steppes for her dress;
And. to powder her nose,
Arabia’s spicy caress
Is dusty enough. I suppose.
Oh, geographical love!
Queen in your absolute right,
I can’t give you the lot; it’s too heavy and
hot —•
Take my heart as a part for to-night!
N'.S.'WV
PAT O’MAORI.


PERDRIAU MACINTOSHES & OILSKINS.
4r
\
Made in Australia. Guaranteed WATERPROOF.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STORES.
PERDRIAU Macintoshes are
proofed with purest Para Rubber,
which renders the materials
absolutely waterproof.
In cut and tailoring they are far
superior to any waterproofs on the
market.
1 hey are made on full and easy-fitting
styles to ensure ease and freedom of
movement.
The full skirt allows plenty of walking-
room and will keep you drier than
a longer coat cut on a narrower
model.
The “ WATERSHED ”
Pit “‘ OILSKIN
is the most protective coat ever invented
for RIDING, DRIVING, WALKING
and all wet-weather wear.
It has distinct features not embodied in
any other brand
Made in two weights.
DUGONG-WATERSHED'
Light weight for general use,
3 51-
“ Rainbow-Watershed ”
Stout make for rough wear,
28/6
Taking into consideration the care used in every stage of
manufacture, the high-class tailoring and distinctive features
of the I erdriau,” the prices of the different qualities are very
moderate.
Postage extra.
>ST.
. *
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. BRISBANE.
ADELAIDE. PERTH. NEWCASTLE.
I
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “Referee”
to Every Property Owner and* Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia. ‘
_ » V>>
-rffe*' V_ '
3?
The Jolliest Motoring Trip of All
is that one -which has as part of the
programme a mid-day lunch of—
“ Rex Camp Pie
There’s enough of this ready-to-serve Meat treat in each tin
for a party of four and the chauffeur, if one goes with the car.
The keener the appetite the better. Take a few tomatoes or
a couple of cucumbers with you if they’re available.
But whether you eat “REX” CAMP PIE with or without Silad
everybody is going to be filled, as those who ate Iduna’TAnnies
were, with the gladness of immortal Youth Apples
UNCHEON
(MUM
fT.JUM
o' ✓
V
Ask, if you please, for
“Rex”
Luncheon Cheese.
OTHER “REX” GOODS ARE
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jellv
and 21b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Fie in Jelly
tins.
Rex Puncheon Cheese, in
decorated tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in
enamel jars.
Rex Pard, for cooking
poses, lib. prints.
121 b.
lib.
5 oz.
soz.
pur-
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
The Everlasting: Valve
A BOON TO ENGINEERS,
Solves all
your Valve
Troubles.
Stops Leaks.
Section of Valve.
Means
Mechanical
Efficiency,
Durability &
Economy.
Senses time otherwise lost in Repairs, Re-grinding, Re-packing,
Write for Descriptive Leaflet to etc.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
350 George St., Sydney.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
As improvements are made in the Dodge Brothers Car nothing
is said to the public about them.
This is in pursuance of a policy inaugurated by Dodge
Brothers at the very outset.
They look upon the progressive improvement of the car as
a matter of course.
The car, however, is basically the same as it was when first
built two years ago.
Yet there is not the slightest doubt but that it is a better car.
Standard Touring 1 Car ... £340
Standard Roadster £335
Dodge Brothers’ Cars will he on view at our pavilion at the
Royal Easter Show, to be held at Moore Park, Sydney, from
April 3 to 11.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 3S.— No. 1935.
THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 1917.
PIUCE 6d.
ON THE SPIT.
THE BIRD: “Here, William, I’ve had nearly enough of this!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £l 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special' Christmas Number, to anY
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. pet-
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tiie Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical' drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago-,'
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Hume Neics Agency, ?6‘3 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Holing, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
■Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Hid. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 1917.
THE CONSPIRACY’S APPEAL FOR
VOTES.
All the talk about Federal elections to “win
the war” and to “ensure the representation
of the Commonwealth at the Imperial Con-
ference” and the wild yells about the preserva-
tion of the Empire have no more meaning
than the cackle of kookaburras. The plain
question for the electors is: To whom shall
the administration of the public affairs of
Australia be entrusted—to the party rejected
at the last election, but now, in defiance
of the people, back at the old address, or the
party returned at that election, but now in
th. wilderness? Does Joe Cook Liberalism,
puts a discredited rump of billet-hunters.and
office-mongers, look any better now than it
did in 1914? Does Labor, minus the
Hughes and Pearce job-hunters, appear
any less entitled to the support of Austra-
lian men and women? On the answer to
either of these questiotfs the citizen with a
vote can get to the very crux of the problem
before the nation. By so doing he solves
for himself 7(342 irrelevant issues that will
be flung down to keep him in a state of con-
fusion. The Government, driven to the
country by the failure of its undemocratic
intrigues, is asking that into its hands shall
be placed at this hour of tremendous crisis
the custody and direction of a democratic
people’s future. In effect it is shrieking
that, since plot and wire-pull have not given
it the majority yielded by the ballot-box to
another Government, the public shall rush
up reinforcements and administer the boot
to everyone who objected to Australia being
dominated by a surreptitious fusion among
individuals who, during a riot, had got into
a place where, by bargaining one with the
other, they could exercise political power
without consulting the constituencies. And
Liberalism, which now. talks through the
mouth of Hughes, has the assurance to go
shouting up and down the country praises
of its own “patriotism.” and denunciations
of the “reign of terror” that is abroad in
tlie land because of secret juntas being at
work! Fine exhibitions of honest patriotism
indeed were given by the junta haggling in
the Cabinet room at Melbourne lately and
constructing a platform dependent on
successful rat-catching!
Except upon the dubious ground that
there was an opportunity to give Labor a
wallop, how could a vote for Hughes,
Cook and Pearce be justified by a demo-
cratic Australian? This paper knows of
none, and though it is profoundly conscious
•that during the last year or two Labor has
been gallivanting about with straws in its
hair, the fact that Hughes and Pearce
were to a- very considerable extent respon-
sible for that calamitous exhibition has an
important bearing on the claims these indi-
viduals are now making. They have
muddled everything to which they have
put their hand. Hughes stands to-day as
the recognised champion blatherskite of
the world; Pearce as a dull, commonplace
bluffer whose administration of a great
State Department makes a story of inept,
ignorant, wasteful bungling without parallel
in Australian history. Yet these men,
whom the people of the Commonwealth have
watched encouraging the Federal Parlia-
ment to pursue a life of sloth, while fur-
tively trying to set themselves up in a
ridiculous sort of dictatorship—fumbling
and bungling their obligations day in and
day out, and blithering inconsequential
phrases about nothing in particular—these
men are calling on the electors to pass a reso-
lution of confidence in them and grant them a
passport to go on wagging their tongues and
making hash of public affairs. Their
vanity is boundless, their faith in the gag
irremovable. The record of the Federal
Parliament since last election is a bad one.
Labor knows that well. The Liberals are
quite as well informed on the point. It is
a Parliament that Australia has reasons to
be ashamed of. It has been a shirker and a
waster; for most of the time the pliant,
time-serving instrument of evasion. For the
greater part of its life it has been in the hands
of Hughes and Pearce. Who can suppose
that a Liberal Parliament of to-morrow, con-
trolled by the same tortuous influence,
would differ from the Labor Parliament of
yesterday—that the hole-and-corner methods
of Hughes the Labor man would not be
followed by Hughes the colleague of Cook?
Australia cannot afford to set its seal upon
a Ministry born in such an environment as
this. To do so would be to put a premium
on all that miserable huckstering which
threatens to destroy the foundations of democ-
racy. Still less can it afford to be stam-
peded by noisy schemers, blaring on bugles
about their “loyalty,” into acceptance of any
Government in which such men as Hughes
and Pearce hold place. A Ministry made up
of men like Bigjoitn Forrest, Irvine and
Millen would be infinitely preferable, and
it is one of Australia’s momentary tragedies
that 99 per cent, of the people who custom-
arily vote against Labor know that this is
so —know that in their hearts they mistrust
Hughes now as they mistrusted him before.
And why should they not? What is his
claim on them? Simply this—that he is
shouting about it being the patriotic duty of
Australians to support his “war policy.”
Well, what is his war policy? The Bul-
letin yields place to no one in recognition
of the importance of this war to Australia.
The policy it advocated from the start was
the raising under Conscription of an army of
such strength as the country could afford to
despatch, having regard to the size of the
population, and its ability to foot the bill; a'
concentration on the industrial and financial
problems of peace ; and the abolition of that
reckless wastage of the public estate that
.Australia has endured so long. The policy of
Hughes was to scoff at all this —and talk.
He has been doing nothing but talk ever
since,, except when he was mysteriously
sneaking around trying to move juntas and
do by stealth what he had not the courage to
do openly. All the rest of the “war problem”
he let go hang, and shirk and waste have been
rampant. Such war policy as he acquired
he had damned in advance by making the
public pay for a censorship that kept it in a
state of ignorance about the war, by wagging
an irresponsible jaw in London and setting
the populace by the ears with demented sta-
tistics, and by ordering a “round-up” that
would have been about the last word in folly
if the vote-tarapering escapade did not cap
it. In support of that “war policy” Hughes
called upon Australia to stand behind him.
Having made a mess of it. he wildly asks to
be assisted again in a policy that is mere
wind, and puts forward that request as the
principal reason for being authorised to re-
main where he is. And Tearce, with his
administrative honors thick upon him, and
the newspaper offices bulging with his notifi-
cations and regulations, wants to go on
shuffling through life as before, mulishly' per-
sisting in being a stick-in-the-mud. If either
of them could be called upon by a Court to
show cause why they should not be dis-
missed, no answer that was free from frivol-
ity would be open to them.
Hughes has no policy except to talk, hang
on to his job and stretch his fingers from
his nose at Labor. He can only remain
where he is by serving the Liberal
interest. That can only be well and truly-
done by opposing all that Labor stands for.
And whatever its mistakes may have been —-
and' Heaven knows they have been tragic
enough ! —it is only through the Labor move-
ment in Commonwealth politics that Aus-
tralian ideals and ambitions will ever get a
chance of being realised. Once that is broken
Australia will have lost her moorings, per-
haps beyond recovery. There are articles in
the Labor faith, degraded though it may have
been by the baser influences of the passing
hour, that can only be even temporarily
abandoned at the risk of disaster. The foun-
dation of these is the conception of Australia
as a nation. This is a thing that Australia
cannot monkey with. Never in her history
was it more vital that this should be remem-
bered. Yet the Government now in office and
appealing for a, mandate to stay there cares
about as much for Australian nationalism as
for a shower of rain. Hughes, its head and
front, has gone quite mad on the subject of
an organic Imperialism, and would to-
morrow, if he could, pull the Commonwealth
into entanglements and commitments that
would change the whole face of her. political
life and upend the status of the Australian
citizen. It would be a calamity for Australia
if this man were by the vote of the people
encouraged to go on his impetuous way. lie
has misrepresented the Australian people
badlv enough already. If he is returned to
power, with the opportunity for evil greatly
increased, it will be fearful proof of the ex-
tent to which reactionary influences have
affected the public mind. This paper is under
no delusions about what Labor looks like;
but with all its faults and weaknesses it looks
a better and a cleaner thing for the Common-
wealth to trust just now than the coterie of
rejects and conspirators who have seized the
machinery and want to show their loyalty
bv remaining in charge.
AT THE ASSES’ BRIDGE.
Bi a policy of wrangle-and-bluff the British
Government hoped to avoid the necessity of
doing anything with regard to Irish affairs
until the war ended. This policy has now
come to a sudden smash through the blunt
refusal of Lloyd George to “coerce Ulster.”
The disgust of Redmond and his followers
is not difficult to understand. Home Rule
for Ireland is already British law, and but
for the war an Irish Parliament should now
be meeting in Dublin. Because there were
some .difficulties and minor dangers in the
way, accredited Irish leaders consented to
delay and found that in so consenting they
had yielded ground to their national enemies,
whose influence became greater and greater
in British affairs as the war dragged on,
while their own dwindled. Still, the fact
that the long-expected and liard-fought-for
measure was actually on the statute book
kept them hoping. It seemed scarcely pos-
sible that England, in the midst of a terrific
war for the liberties of small nations, could
be so dead to the logic of things that she
would continue to deny liberty to that small
nation which had suffered under her own
misrule. But the British logical faculty
is a very slender thing at most times, and
the last hope of it snapped when Lloyd
George made his flaccid statement in Par-
liament. Ireland should have Home Rule
at some date unspecified, but have it in a
form which must take away its utility and
significance. Then Redmond and his fol-
lowers, tricked and cheated in return for
their generous patience and moderation, rose
and left the House of Commons. Surely
Germany must have cheered at this spectacle
of the largest and most dangerous-looking
of British statesmen baulking at the old
asses’ bridge!
The alleged difficulty which British states-
men find in going on honorably with the
Home Rule programme, as missed by their
own Parliament, is the attitude of a small
minority of people in the Province of Ulster.
The fact that this attitude had been deliber-
ately fostered by Englishmen and that it
was used by an English political party for
purposes that had no relation to Ireland or
Irish affairs is steadily ignored. The
menace is magnified out of all proportion to
its real importance, and the will of Ireland,
Scotland, Wales and half England, as ex-
pressed through their Parliamentary repre-
sentatives, is set aside because of the noise
made in a few parishes of eastern Ulster.
Here, of course, the rights of minorities and
small nations is dragged in and an attempt,
is made to show that the coercion of Ulster
by the rest of Ireland differs in no degree
from the coercion of Ireland as a’whole by
England. The parallel, however, breaks
down the moment it is closely examined.
The faction in Ulster opposed to Home Rule
is not a nation. It is not even a majority
of the people of a province. In the towns
of Belfast and Londonderry, where the anti-
Ilome Rule sentiment is strongest, there are
enough Nationalists to return members of
Parliament; arid throughout the counties of
Down and Antrim, where on the twelfth of
July the Orangemen get drunkest to the
"pious, glorious and immortal memory” of
William 111., neighboring families of the
same race and owning similar race-names
arc on opposite sides of the controversy. Nor
is that controversy in any real sense reli-
gious. While there are few Roman Catho-
lics opposed to Home Rule there are any
number of Presbyterians in favor of it; and
Presbyterian Scotland, looking soberly
across the narrow strait of Moyle and observ-
ing the antics of its fellow-religionists, has
steadily voted with the majority of Irish-
Catholies and against the faction which pre-
tends to be' in such danger of oppression
if the liberty of Ireland is granted. The
Ulster followers of Edward Carson are in
point of fact merely a political party and
cannot claim to represent a distinct nation-
ality or religion. Further than this, a care-
ful study of race movements has gone to
show that the people inhabiting Ireland are
tolerably uniform in texture throughout.
The basis is everywhere Celtic and the
foreign elements in Ulster are not greater
than those in Leinster, possibly not greater
even than those in the extreme South.' But
even if it could be shown that some of the
people of Antrim, Down, Armagh and Lon-
donderry were foreigners of comparatively
recent arrival, it would be a poor doctrine
that an otherwise united nation must have
a Constitution dictated by a small foreign
minority with a loud voice. The whole ques-
tion narrows itself down to the finest
point. If the CARSON-ite claim is to be
allowed, it means that minorities every-
where have the right to destroy majorities.
It means that in a country like Australia
all legislation must be suspended until there
is unanimity of opinion, and that as long
as a minority is opposed to a measure noth-
ing can be done about it. To merely state
such a case is to show the futility of the
whole anti-Home Rule position. But, apart
from the logical implications of the course
Lloyd George and his Ministry are trying
to follow, there is always in war time the
other question of expediency. The Carson-
ite faction is dangerous —we know this be-
cause it bought German rifles to oppose Eng-
lish law; but does any sane man suppose
that the few armed drum-beaters in Ulster
could be as dangerous as the whole people
of Ireland roused to desperation by lying,
trickery and base ingratitude? The British
Government in bowing supinely to an in-
furiated tomcat is in danger, of rousing a
full-clawed tiger.
Much has been heard lately of the assist-
ance which British overseas opinion can
render to England in this time of stress;
and here is one of those matters in which
the Dominions may very well help. At a
distance we have much better perspective
and can see the Irish problem in its proper
proportions. That is the chief reason why
the opinion of Australia, South Africa,
Maoriland and Canada is so overwhelmingly
in favor of granting plain Home Rule with-
out trick or reservation to the Irish people.
England, from our point of view, has failed
lamentably in the government of Ireland.
England is in danger of committing suicide
through following her old insane methods
with regard to that country. Let the legis-
latures of States and Commonwealth make a
plain pronouncement on the question, not with
a view to increasing England's difficulties, but
with the clear, patriotic object of prevent-
ing a division in the face of the enemy.
Australians have shed their blood to assist
Britain to remain as a bulwark of civilisa-
tion and liberty. If Britain in her dealings
with her nearest dependency is still foolish,
unjust and insincere, she is not the Britain
Australians believed she was. That is the
gist of a great matter ; and that word ought
to be spoken in English ears with blunt
vigor. '
THE PRESS, THE PRIME MINISTER
AND THE GAG.
[The Second Charter of this Article
Will be Printed when the Present Cen-
sorship has keen Abolished.]
In nn attack wliic’.i tlie Prime Minister was
good enough to make on The Bulletin in
the House of Reps, last week he referred to
a “venomous article” about himself which
might have been suppressed by the Censor-
ship, but which, on it being shown to him
by the Censor, he allowed to be published.
The incident to which the Prime Minister
alludes serves very well to show how the
Censorship has operated in Australia. The
“venomous article” was printed in September
last, when Mr. Hughes, after talking so
valiantly in England, had returned to make
the fatal error of appealing to the individual
citizen on the question of Conscription.
The article was an expression of opinion
regarding the claims of Mr. Hughes to
statesmanship. Because The Bulletin
believes Mr. Hughes to be a grave national
danger, the article was not flattering. But
it committed no breach of any instruction
issued by tlie Censorship. It was there-
fore passed by the Censor. Before it was
published, however, an instruction was issued
which covered such an article. Then Mr.
Hughes saw the article. Mr. Hughes did
not like it. It is not too much to say
that he was furious about it. But it
could only have been suppressed after it had
been passed for publication. As a matter of
fact, it was published. But it was only
published because Mr. Hughes was in-
formed that, the Censor having passed it,
there would be no Bulletin that week with-
out it. # #
The Bulletin is not permitted to say
what the instruction given to the press on
that occasion was. It would, if it were
published, afford the public an interesting
view of the character of Mr. Hughes. It
was, however, not the only instruction of the
same nature issued at or about the same
time. Mr. Hughes says lightly that there
was some small protest by the newspapers
that he met their representatives in Mel-
bourne and Sydney and told them that they
were perfectly free to print what political
criticisms they pleased. There was nothing
so light and airy as that about the matter.
The political censorship was only withdrawn
after a very drastic measure had been agreed
to by the leaders of both political parties in
both Houses in X. S. Wales. The Prime
Minister did meet the newspapers—in Syd-
ney. at any rate —and tell them they were
free to publish political criticisms. But
Mr. Hughes allowed free speech and a free
press—moderately free, at any rate —not
because he wanted to, but because, to his
everlasting credit, William Holman, sup-
ported by other party leaders in N. S. W ales,
drove him to it.
* * * *
So the outrageous restrictions were with-
drawn. Then arose the matter which was dis-
cussed in the House of Reps, last- week. The
Bulletin printed a paragraph commenting
upon the administration of the Defence De-
partment in regard to a certain matter very
intimately connected with the rights of the
widow of a soldier killed at the Front. If
it is not the duty of the press to endeavor
to secure justice for the widows of the men
who have fallen in pur fight, then the press
has no duties at all,' and no justification for
existence. The Bulletin was informed
that that effort to assist the soldier’s widow
was an offence, a breach of the War Precau-
tions regulations, and that such paragraphs
should be submitted for censorship. It re-
plied, as the proceedings in Parliament show,
that, by agreement with the Prime Minister,
such matter need not be submitted.
Though the press and public speakers
have not yet been informed specifically as to
the regulations which are to operate, it is
at least promised that they shall be “as free
. to speak about political matters as ever they
had been.” This further undertaking should,
however, be demanded: that no politician
shall interfere with the Censorship during
the campaign. Further, unless more satis-
factory assurances are given, anything what-
ever that may be written in regard to the
administration of the Defence Department
a matter on which the election must turn, to
a great extent —can be suppressed as “pre-
judicial to recruiting,” and anything that a
speaker may say on the same class of sub-
jects is liable to bring a prosecution upon him.
If Pearce is to take shelter in that dugout
against the criticism of his administration
it will be a scandalous misuse of the Censor-
ship. If there were the smallest desire on
the part of the influential press of Australia
to prejudice recruiting there might be some
excuse for using this gag. But, in the case
of The Bulletin, for instance, almost at


the very moment when the Department of
Defence was accusing it of doing things to
prejudice recruiting, the Director-General
of Recruiting was—quite unnecessarily
thanking it for its “valuable assistance’ .
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia’s Lost Interest in the War.
There are two reasons why recruiting in
Australia is so slow. The first is that every
pintpot has a bottom; the other that Aus-
tralia has lost interest in the war. We can t
get more than a pint out of a pintpot, so the
tirst reason may not he got rid of; yet there
is still enough left in the pot to make it well
worth while considering whether the second
reason is here to stay. Australia has lost
interest in the war —why? If we know that
we may remove the cause. While the Gal-
lipoli campaign was in progress Australian in-
terest simply boiled. The news of the trouble
which our men struck at and after the Land-
ing brought a rush of recruits that seems
positively incredible in the light of recent
tardy enlistments. The whole explanation
of it was that at that time Australians were
not submerged. They were doing something
or trying to do something on their own
account; and their national individuality
was preserved. The war then was to Aus-
tralians a personal matter. To-day it is
quite impersonal. And simply because those
who are in charge of affairs don’t know the
Australian, there has been no attempt to
make it anything else. Something might
easily have been done in Egypt, where the
Desert work was essentially Australian
work, and the glory achieved by the mounted
troops is Australia’s glory. But there was
no official Australian correspondent to stil-
us as Ashmeap Bartlett stirred us in the
days of Gallipoli; and the magnificent Aus-
tralian exploits in the Sinai Peninsula have
been worth nothing to the recruiters. It is
doubtless more difficult to distinguish the
performances of the Australians in France.
But it is by no means impossible. Yet prac-
tically nothing has been done or attempted.
We have had reams of recruiting literature
from the Back; hardly anything with an
appeal in it from.the Front. The communi-
cations of the official correspondent have
been colorless, and no waverer’s pulse has
been quickened by them. The Bulletin
does not believe that press-agency work
should be necessary in order to raise a
nation’s army. We ought to have national
service, as Britain has. But as, through the
blundering of politicians, we have not got it,
we must adopt just the same methods to get
men into the army that we adopt to get them
to do other things. The British authorities
ought to recognise this, and, while giving
away no military secrets, allow a much
greater latitude in regard to the reporting of
Australian achievements. The press is eager
to help ; it has never been allowed to do one-
tenth of what it could do. No doubt this is
largely the fault of people who have pro-
fessed to speak for Australia. They have
talked so much about Imperialism and unity
that the British authorities naturally believe
that we are well enough fed if the doings of
the British army are put on our breakfast-
plates. Nothing could be further from the
truth. We may be proud in a general,
detached sort of way of British achieve-
ments ; but Young Australia reads of them
With an emotion not to be compared with the
feeling that gripped it when the news of
Gallipoli was coming through. To-day every
Australian recruit is, one way and another,
costing this country £5O to get: and the
number we do get is almost humiliating. It
is time we tried a new plan. The services of
two outstanding men in the war-correspon-
dent business should be secured. They can
pass with a few words what the rest are
doing; Australia wants to know what the
Australians are doing, not. only in France,
but in England, too. And until it does know,
the right atmosphere for the Australian
recruiter to work in will not be created.
The Horrible Story in the Ledger.
After having a look at the Federal cashbox
and the future, Treasurer Bigjohn Forrest
the other day went along to the Reps, and
explained what he saw. It was mostly a
yarn about bigger debt and higher charges
and greater needs. If in the coming year
revenue and expenditure were on the current
year’s basis the Treasury reckons that the
income would be £2,634,000 short. But
expenditure will lie so greatly increased that
another £6,800,000 must be got somewhere.
Thus it will be necessary to get a grip on
£9,434,000 more than is now being handled
in order to pay interest and war pensions
and so on ; which means that a lot of Aus-
tralians are going to be stung on a sore
place. Moreover, it is a sure thing that,
not long after, they will have to be badly
bitten again. But Btg.tohn was content
with giving a general statement of the facts,
remarking that the manner in which so
much money could be raised was “undesir-
able to indicate at the present time.” Where-
upon :
Fenton (Vic.): Will you deal with it in your
election manifesto?
Bigjohn: Certainly not. That remark shows you
have no sense of responsibility. Did you ever hear
of a Minister telling Parliament how he was going
to raise funds before raising them? The hon. gentle-
man will cease to have my regard if he asks
questions like that.
Yet before the election is over John
Forrest will find that this question of how
the Government proposes to make ends meet
will have to. be answered with some atten-
tion to detail. It is one of the most im-
portant questions of the hour, and upon it
public attention should be closely fixed.
Taxation is heavy now. That it must be
heavier than the most dismal pessimist ever
dreamed of is certain. Therefore it is not
good enough to allow political parties to
take refuge behind a cloud of words about
increased production and an influx of popu-
lation and all the rest of it. The Hughes
Government promises a policy of “sound
finance.” Very well, let us have it. If the
people who are to provide these additional
millions are not entitled to know something
about it and have a voice in saying how the
burden is to be distributed, who is?
General Muddle Reports Progress.
The only possible result of publishing the
findings of the Gallipoli Commission at this
moment is to start an acrimonious discus-
sion about matters having nothing to do with
the job on hand. Everybody knew already
that there had been muddle and that all the
gorgeous yarns the public had been fed on
during the earlier fighting were calculated
perjuries; hence the production of corrobora-
tive testimony on the subject was a waste of
time. Still, there it is now for the Dachshunds
to bark over. One of the main questions
was whether CRurchill and Asquith
ordered the naval operations in defiance of
the expressed opinion of their naval a^vis ® l ' s ‘
That they did so appears clear. lhe
admirals were against it. That they dul not
protest at the actual meeting of the Nvar
Council which decided on the attack, after
having already put their views before that
body, matters nothing. The War Council
was responsible for the undertaking: the
admirals for carrying out any contract the
Council decided on. There may have been
important political considerations to which
the Ministers were compelled to give
greater weight than to the opinions of the
Admiralty. That is a side of the matter
on which light has not been shed ; and until
it is, the just distribution of individual blame
remains very difficult. In any case, it occurs
to this paper that there are more weighty
things to think about than what was done
a couple of years ago by two discarded poli-
ticians, a dead soldier and a retired sailor.
Between them all they made a dreadful
mess; but going back to contemplate the
mess is about as helpful as searching for
yesterday morning through the wrong end of
a telescope.
*. .
A Parliamentary Election About a Fiji
Uncle.
Tiie strategy of the P.L.L. in the State
election riot now raging in N. S. .Wales is
of the elementary kind invented by the
general-staff serving under the famous
Chinese Emperor Wot 110 XXX. Wot Uo
about 74G2 b.c., as near as this paper can
fix it, was attacked by a rebellious horde num-
bering 147 generals and four privates. They
came from the desert in search of the pre-
served-ginger department. Wot had no
experience of war, but his general staff was
wise with the wisdom of years. “Let us,”
they said, “yell that the marauders have
measles. Then will our friends be alarmed
and throw the mud of the Ho-hang-ho at
them and chase them home.” It all hap-
pened according to schedule, and for thou-
sands of years afterwards the successors of
Wot 110 armed their troops with a yell and
thus saved the Royal ginger. That is just
what is happening now in N. S. Wales,
with this difference —that, instead of yelp-
ing that the Liberalites and the llolman-
ites want to give all of us the measles, the
P.L.L. says that these people are going to
present the State with a compulsory mili-
tary-service law. This is the kind of muni-
tions the P.L.L. is fighting a general election
with ! Never was a contest hejd upon an issue
so meaningless. Does Labor seriously ask
the electors of the State to measure its own
fitness for office by the other party’s alleged
desire to do something it can’t do and
declares it has no intention whatever of
attempting? The State Government has no
more to do with military service, voluntary
or otherwise, than with Holman’s missing
whiskers. The P.L.L. knows this. The kids
in the streets know it. Has the Labor party
no merits of its own that it must rely on
the fictitious demerits of its opponents? Has
it gone daft or does it think that the people
have? It must be one of the two.
♦
The Censorship anil a Minister Who
Does Not Know the Facts.
This paper has no desire to tell Assistant
Minister for Defence Groom that he is
untruthful. But it does want to tell him
that unless he makes himself better
acquainted with the performances of Hughes
and Tearce he will certainly earn for him-
self the reputation enjoyed by the late
lamented Bill Adams, of Waterloo. In the
House of Reps, last week, in an “explana-
tion” of the censorship, he said: —
The whole system was controlled by the Imperial
authorities , being a branch of the Imperial staff.
It was divided into three branches, and, as regards
the press censorship, that was regulated by instruc-
tions issued by the chief censor in London in con-
junction with instructions issued by the naval and
military authorities of the Commonwealth.
The plain intention of this was to convey
the idea that the Censorship operating in
Australia has the sanction of the Imperial
authorities as a measure of protection com-
mon to England .and the Commonwealth. It
does not matter who made the regulations. It
is the things that are done under them that
form the scandal. Of course it may be said that
this is mere assertion. Groom may oven
-choose to say that it is untrue. If lie docs
the obligation will be strong upon him to
give this paper an opportunity to prove its
case. It will undertake to do so to the
satisfaction of every impartial citizen in
the Commonwealth. The Bulletin is pre-
pared to prove a few other things; but the
Censorship won’t let it. That, of course, is
why there is a Censorship—to help win the
war.
- «
The Freetratle Policy of Let-It-Slide.
V person named Keans consumes half a
column of the Melbourne Argus to _ groan
about anyone objecting to Australia’s tre-
mendous importations and to incidentally
explain that, “whatever the importance of
the figures,” “the fact that has struck me
with the greatest force is that every inci-
dent connected directly or indirectly with
the struggle is made 41 peg to hang a Pro-
tectionist argument on.” The fact that
strikes this paper with the greatest force is
that if Australia continues this demented
importation of goods that are paid, for fiy
additions to the public debt, Keans will
soon be so busy snaring sparrows for break-
fast that he will have no time to write to
the Argus, except to point out that taxation
swallows up 19s. Gd. in the fl of his in-
come. The questions involved in the con-
sideration of Freetrade or Protection are
not relevant to the position Australia has
to face. The inescapable fact is that the
people can only dodge ruin by mending the
national ways. What we have now is a form
of Protection made wholly inadequate by the
borrowing of millions a year. This gives the
country all the disadvantages of Freetrade
plus a tariff and a vast charge for debt.
It is not a fiscal or any other sort of
policy. It is just plain supping with the
Devil. To gird at Protectionists for not post-
poning their efforts until after the war _ is
about as intelligent as it would be to advise
the French army to go back to work until
the war is over. What the Protectionists
are talking about is part of the war. The
financial and industrial stability of a nation
is vital to its existence and can no more be
huddled away out of sight until war is over
than warships can be sunk for purposes of
safety. To take the advice of Keans would
be to run the risk of waking up. when the
war is over, to discover that the premises
have fallen down in a heap. And-, anyhow,
can Keans or Beans or anyone else detect
an “incident connected directly or indirectly
with the struggle” which implies that Aus-
tralians have no need to live by their own
labor and enterprise?
Repatriation and Apples.
“Jacko” on the problem of making “the
land” pay:—
Here are the facts about the Bathurst effort at
“repatriation.” Recently the N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment resumed one of the district's best-known orchard
properties for just on £SOOO, the account being fixed
up something like this: —
105 acres (about) of varied land ( £l4
an acre).. .. •• •• ..£2300
75 acres (about) of fruit trees ( £6l
10s. an acre) .. .. • • • • 4612
Various improvements .. .. • • <,50
Total .. •• •• ..£7007
Of the 105 acres 00 are described by the Land Board
which handled the’ matter as “bush land.” Since
the purchase 10 more acres (by the way, the next-
best orchard site in the whole locality) have been
taken from another owner at £l3 10s. per acre for
soldiers’ home sites. Add the cost of the horses and
other live stock about the place, the plant and the
new material sent along, and the total doesn’t leave
much of £IO,OOO. The settlement is to be divided
into 15 holdings for as many soldiers ami their
families. Each is to have a home costing £4OO,
which tacks on another £6OOO. So that, when the
settlement has actually been established, the figure
will easily have touched £15,000 —£1000 a man.
The show is to be worked on the collective basis,
and for the first six months the men are to get
their nine 'bob a day. Thereafter they will be
expected to rub along on the profits.
When the Land Board sifted the thing it came to
the conclusion that, “so far as the orchard is con-
cerned, a net return may be looked for, with a con-
tinuance of the same diligent energy and working
as at present, of £25 an acre.” Overlooking the
fact that there may and maj' not be this same “dili-
gent energy,” and the possibility that the original
owner himself—a shrewd expert—never got £25
an acre, we find that, even if this maximum of
optimism is realised, it will mean a profit of. only
about £3B weekly to be cut up among the 15
families. The return from the remaining ground—
mostly “bush land”—isn’t likely to affect the pro-
position profoundly. The prospective £25 an acre
is worked out by the Department on the basis of a
return of about 20,000 bushels from the orchard.
The truth is that this year’s yield, with the orchard
in its prime and the season generally good, won’t
go over 5000 bushels. Only 3000 cases have been
ordered by the new settlers. Which brings the
profits to minus something when the £64 fort-
nightly expenses are deducted.
What will happen when the thrip and frost and
hail and moth and other little pleasantnesses come
along only Ashfokd, the Minister for Lands, knows.
Even if, at any time, the soldiers themselves rake
out a crust, what about the repayment of the money
advanced for plant and material, depreciation, and
the interest on the whole £15,000? The Depart-
ment will learn then —as usual, at the public ex-
pense —that under present conditions the fruit-grow-
ing business is too precarious to fiddle with under
the soldier-settlement head. Better to put the cash
jnto wheat land, where the figures might keep
within reason. Then we might get back a few pence
of the millions it is going to cost us.
Our Airy Future.
The rush of Australians to get into the local
flying-schools looks like good business. Of
all the machines of war which the European
struggle has developed, the aeroplane is
easily first; and it gives promise of still
bigger things in the years to come. No
country in the world has more need of the
flying-machine than Australia; and no coun-
try seems better adapted to its use. The
huge extent of comparatively level country
which makes up the bulk of this continent
should offer the very best of air conditions;
and the advantages of the improved aero-
plane as a means of rapid communication
between isolated and distant settlements are
pretty obvious. Where the camel carries the
load at the goading of the Afghan the aero-
plane may carry the mail and the stray
passenger, and thus draw Australian homes
closer together and make the continent more
compact in sympathy and sentiment. But-
it is as a weapon in the Commonwealth’s
defence armory that the aeroplane really
counts. For many years to come the pro-
blem of our defence authorities —if they
grasp the fact that there is any problem at
all —must be to devise a scheme by which a
very small number of soldiers can hold their
own against an immense invading horde in
an almost limitless country. Clearly, the
trench lines of Europe offer no hint of the
way in which Australia could be defended.
Our whole available manhood could not hold
50 miles of trenches of the French or Bel-
gian sort; and the length of our Front might
run into thousands of miles. It is here that
the aeroplane comes in. One man in an
aeroplane seems already to be as useful as
a dozen or two on the ground ; and as fur-
ther improvements are made in the machine
the proportional value of the flier is likely to
be increased. More than this, the nature of
our back-country settlement lends itself to
the formation of aeroplane corps. Even a
lonely back station could have its machine
or two, and the remote township with its
pub, store and blacksmith’s shop might be
able to raise a covey of mechanical birds
armed to tire tail' with weapons of defence.
To train flying soldiers appears more im-
portant to-day than anything . else in the
military way; and, if Australia takes, the
business up in earnest, her insular position
must always give her the advantage against
any possible invader. The enemy’s planes
must rise from the water; we have a solid
place to jump off.
♦
• Tleliogabalus ” about a row up North :
If you love a good old sectarian scrap, hurry up
to Queensland. It all conies out of Jack Fihelly’s
speech to the Brisbane Hibernians last September,
when the Coadjutor-Minister for Justice (as he is
called now) told his audience that England was “the
home of cant, humbug and hypocrisy.” The speech,
which incidentally was highly approved by Lennon
(Minister for Agriculture), was printed in the local
H.O. rag, after John had edited-it. Brisbane Daily
Mail, at the request of an influential advertiser,
reprinted it. Then there was the devil to pay. The
papers seethed with letters denouncing Fiiielly ;
the Mail and the Courier fulminated; Parliament
was moved, and even the Governor was implored to
exercise his latent power and remove John. In the
Assembly John tendered an “apology,” which merely
added fuel to the fire. The Ryan majority exon-
erated him and Lennon ; but the Council, led by
Fowlks, passed a condemnatory resolution, which
was duly presented to the Governor. The country
then took up the matter. At Toowoomba 500
Hibernians cheered Dr. Duma, the R.C. Archbishop
of Brisbane, who defended the Fiiielly outburst.
The trouble embittered the Conscription campaign,
and since then it has emerged from its lair twice a
week regularly. Every, day some council or semi-
public body passes indignant protests and resolu-
tions, which arc duly sent to the Governor or Parlia-
ment or Tom Ryan, or all three. Just when things
had begun to cool off, Dr. Mannix came along to
Brisbane and repeated his statement about the war
being merely a war for trade. This set the Mail
going again; and after Fiiielly's pal McCawley
had been made Judge of the Industrial Court, the
Anglican Church took up an openly hostile attitude
towards the Government and the R.C. hierarchy,
who, it alleged, were hand-in-glove to “stuff” the
public service with “green” protegees. Bishop Le
Fanu, Coadjutor to Archbishop Donaldson, opened
file; Archbish. Duma replied; then Donaldson
retorted; and at latest two archbishops were
reloading their blunderbusses, and the accompanying
row sounds like the finest dog-fight that ever was.
“Murkati” : While P.M.G. Webster is tin-
kering with the holes through which that
£315,000 leaked, he" might with advantage
east an eye on the telegraph accounts section.
Some time ago I took a job as temporary
assistant in a suburban office. During the
process of taking-over from the man I was
displacing I noticed a number of red forms,
stating: “Amount due on collect telegram
| here followed particulars of message] not
received. Please attach stamps covering
amount to this form and return.” I re-
marked on them, and was informed that they
didn’t matter, as “the telegraph branch sel-
dom followed them up.” He spoke no less
than the truth. They didn’t matter. The
messengers, taking advantage of this slack-
ness, frequently collect the money and do the
picture-shows on the proceeds. Nothing was
done about it in the four months I remained
at that office. That is 17 months ago, and
from inquiries I made when I visited the
place the other day I believe the same slip-
shod system is still in force.
♦
Tiie old ghosts of Sydney sat on the hills
last week and grinned when four of the
Maltese immigrants interned on the hulk
Anglian swam ashore and scrambled away
through the bush with police panting in pur-
suit. Two got away, and will, no doubt, take
the picks and shovels out of the mouths of
two honest Australians who don’t give a
d—n how many foreign products come in so
long as the makers don’t arrive in person.
After the aliens’ break, a police launch
fussed up and began guard-duty. It wouldn’t
be so farcical if we had a tariff to match the
Alien Immigration Restriction Act. But,
while we are repelling these few chance
boarders, the products of millions of people
who get about fourpence a day are pouring
in almost without hindrance. As a matter
of fact, it is far better, from the industrial
point of view, to let the alien in than to let
his goods in. When the alien arrives we can
at least impose our industrial laws on him,
and his competition isn’t therefore as deadly
as it is when he works in his own country,
where he can toil unlimited hours and under
any conditions he pleases.
#
From an old and saddened Protectionist -
Australia continues to talk about its great natural
resources and its intention to profit by the lessons
of the war ; but thus far there is little or no evidence
of new enterprise in local manufacture. The beer
which should be as light and uninebriating as the
lightest of German lagers has yet to be brewed i>(
these latitudes. The good Australian woollen serges,
in plain colors, which ought to have a monopoly of
the steady local market for such cloths, are not
being woven. The best makes of Australian boots
are not being branded in competition with the boots
that come from abroad and carry the makers’ names
as advts. The hat-millers are not straining every
nerve, or any nerve, to turn out hats equal in every
respect, or in almost every respect, to the best of
the imported goods. Seemingly the manufacturers
in all the biggest branches of industry—softgoods
or hardware—are just making all the money they
can instead of speculating their profits in experiments
with a view to the time when the competition from
foreign goods will be keener than it is these times. *
The same want of enterprise is glaringly apparent in
retail trading. Among the purchasing public there
is a persistent demand for the ousting of the Dagors
from their strongholds; but there is no systematic
Australian endeavor to meet the demand. Big busi-
ness chances are offering, but there are no big
bidders.
♦
Liverpool (N.S.W.), where the soldiers
camp, is also learning what Hughes’s solu-
tion of problems really amounts to. The
little township subsists largely on its wool-
scouring and fell-mongering business, and
this, for the past two months or so, has been
practically idle through want of wool to
treat. Consequently. Liverpool is. asking
whether Hughes was blowing off his usual
hot-air when he stated that, though the Brit-
ish Government had bought the Australian
wool clip, local industries wouldn’t go short.
Starving the home wool-scours is rotten
enough business at all times —it isn’t busi-
ness at all these times. Local treatment
means fewer unemployed here; smaller


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co.. Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill. Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure withAUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
&. King* Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY It. CARY. Chairman. 0. HOWARD POPE. Oanrral Manager.
V/
A
MM
&
Ssics
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060.000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in ibis Coupon below stating the Class ol Land in which yon
are interested and full particulars will come to you by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director Intelligence a Tourist Bureau. Brisbane, O.
demand on the already overburdened ship-
ping transport; less worry for over-
worked Britain when she gets the wool. At
least, that is the way ir looks to persons of
ordinary intelligence. But the Hughes
process seems to he to export the wool in
grtase, and then export a few thousand Aus-
tralian workers to laundry it.
Bagdad and Other Things.
In the campaign against the Turk the cap-
ture of Bagdad by General Maude’s army is
a cheerful incident, mostly because it is goad
evidence that the muddle associated with
the Mesopotamian expedition has been cleaned
up. The next thing to hear about is whether
the advancing force can maintain its long
line of communication with the sea. anil
whether a junction can be made with tin*
Russians in the north and east. Meantime
the cock-a-whoop yarn that the fall of Bag-
dad “shatters the German dream” may safely
be put aside for verification later on. Just
now we needn’t bother about Prussian
dreams; there is something far more
material to engage all our attention
so long as German armies are in
the field and German submarines are out
in the wet. These two things represent the
problems that have to be dealt with, and
until they are accounted for the significance
of Bagdad may well he left in abeyance. If
the submarine campaign succeeds, the war in
Mesopotamia won’t matter. So also if the
German armies are not broken in France,
Germany will he boss of Europe and the
dreams of other people will evaporate in
spite of Bagdad. As for the submarine,
it is better to listen to the voice of
responsible authority rather than to state-
ments made by the same stupid old crowd
that continues to lead us on to destruction
by burbling to ns that all is well no matter
what the truth may be. Lloyd George and
Carson spoke upon the submarine subject
last week. Both emphasised the gravity of
the peril; both declared that the problem
had not yet been solved. In the face of
this, with Carson’s statement that half a
million tons of shipping had been sunk in
February. The Bulletin has seen three
times during the week the definite assertion,
made by alleged cable messages published in
Australian newspapers, that the submarine
campaign has broken down —been defeated —
proved a farce ! The best that can be said
is that there is room for faith and hope. But
there is need to regard the situation with
profound seriousness; and until it does so
regard it. Australia will not realise its great
responsibilities in connection with the war.
The presence of a raider as far afield as the
Indian Ocean was heard of the other day
after part of the news had been laboriously
dragged out of the Ministry; hut as the
facts relating to the vessel are kept shrouded
in gloom in Australia though apparently
published in London, it is only a fair thing
to assume that the shattering of Australia’s
foolish dreams is no part of a little man’s
method of winning the war.
Miss Beatrice Grimsiiaw whoops up her
Papuan home: —
The too-fortunate agriculturists, who have been so
often abused for not knowing their own luck, know
it quite well in Papua in these days of food scarcity.
Nobody lives as well as the planter now that every-
thing has gone up in price. If he does not kill his
own cattle (and some do) he can. keep himself sup-
plied with wild pig, than which there is no better
meat, wallaby (as different from the coarse Austra-
lian wallaby as lamb is from old goat), and plenty
of eatable birds, all to be got by a shooting boy at
a pound a month. Sweet potatoes, planted by the
easy method of roughly hilling the ground and stick-
ing in bunches of tops, will produce from two to
10 tons an acre, starting in three months from plant-
ing. Maize comes to the eating stage in two and a
half months, and goes on for ever, or until you get
tired of putting in one crop after another. Pawpaw
fruits in eight or nine months from seed ; all tropic
fruits grow rapidly and well, and most temperate
veegtables can he raised. Fowls pick up their own
living in the teeming bush, and increase like flies.
Coffee robusta bears in two and a half years, and
if you have once drunk real coffee you will never
drink anything but tea out of the tropics again,
for all bought coffee is a mockery. Native sago, a
most; delicate and nourishing foojl, making the only
jolly that will set in hot countries withou’t ice, can
be cut and washed by the hundredweight in the near-
est swamp. The rivers teem with fine fish, and there
is a swift and safe way of getting them ; hut as it
is against the law, one need hardly say that it is
never, under any circumstances, practised! They
are beginning to grow rice now, and it does exceed-
ingly well, especially the hill rice, which can be
grown on dry land. Yes, you might be in worse
places than Papua in this hungry stage of the
world’s history.
The pop-shop gets a stronger grip than
the drink habit or the drug mania. Here is
Billson, the leader of Labor in Victoria,
castigating the Peacock Government for
cutting down public works “while money
could he obtained to carry them out.” And
when Bowser’s Economy party voted to
force Peacock to cut down his estimates,
Billson and co. would have none of its pro-
posals, because the policy would mean un-
employment. There is only one way by
which the present—and still more the com-
ing—situation can he met. That is by enor-
mously increasing production. One means
is by a Protective tariff, which will force
Australians to make most of their own
goods. Another is by cutting out the horde
of parasites and puttijig them to work. This
means that certain strenuous toilers, such as
State Governors, many State politicians,
stacks of messengers, attendants, agents and
what not, would have to find other, jobs.
Every unproductive citizen is a drain on
the community, out of whose pockets his
wages or salary must come; and the inter-
est' bill on our borrowings is going to be
so high directly that there will he precious
little left in those pockets for the owner
after the Government’s little lot has been
taken.
From N. S. Wales Worker (March 1) :
Ought wc to submit with patience to be robbed?
When burglars are ih the bouse of the Moderate
Man, does he move slowly? Or does be reach out
for his gun in a hurry, and get busy protecting bis
property without waiting to put his collar on?
No, editor Boote is not at last getting a
correct view of the war. He is, in fact, not
telling about the, German, but about the
wicked capitalist.
To encourage wheat-growing an inter-State
conference is to he recommended to guaran-
tee. on behalf of the Governments, 4s. per
bushel for next season's crop. There may be
special circumstances to excuse a guarantee
just now; but the principle is rotten. What
the farmer needs is, not a guarantee, but to
he saved from sharks. They are all sorts
and sizes. There is the land-grabber who
uses great arable areas for grazing and
pushes the cultivator out on to the Edge,
where rain is uncertain and freights are
deadly. There is the politician who borrows
and bloats, creating an artificial prosperity
and an artificial level of wages, thus also
pushing up the farmer’s cost of living though
it can’t push up the price of the farmer’s
wheat, because that is governed by the
world’s markets. And there is the horde of
agents who fatten on the farmer; though
that is the farmers’ own fault, largely,
because he will not co-operate. Is there no
Department of Agriculture in Australia
sufficiently free from city agents’ influences
to do the best thing it could possibly do for
the farmers and promote co-operation among
them?
Hugh Percy Murray-Aynsely, one of the
host-known figures in Canterbury (M.L.),
has just had a funeral. He left his native
Gloucestershire in 1858, when lie was going
on for 30, and came this way with the
Queen, the boat that was brought out to
open steam trade between Australia and
Maoriland. He did woolbroking and sheep-
growing for a time, and was one of the
main spirits in the N.Z. Shipping Co. and
chairman for many years. Occasionally he
spared time to be acting-superintendent of
the Canterbury province when William Rol-
lestcm was away, and he sat in the Maori-
land’s House of Reps, when the provinces
were put out of business.
Another of them ! Patrick Downey, who
died at Leichhardt (Sydney) the other day,
aged 91, was “a survivor of the Eureka
Stockade.” But if he was in the historic
fight it left no mark upon him. They may
have been ardent patriots and indomitable
battlers for freedom, those Stockaders; but
they mostly managed in subsequent years to
disguise themselves as very ordinary citi-
zens.
W. A. Laver, who waves the - Ormond
baton dropped by the late Marshall Hall,
wants to save Melbourne from the musical
starvation which annoyed Melba, so lie is
asking citizens to fire in advance orders for
concert tickets. If he can get enough orders
and musicians, he will hire the approaching
Russians Mirovitch and Piastro and saw off
enough high-class music to make the winter
respectable. If Melbourne really wants a
good three-course meal of the right stuff,
now is the time to take its head out of th&
ragtime trough and speak up. If Melba
gets back and finds nothing to eat, she’ll
surely slap somebody.
Victoria gets another unpleasant shock by
learning that, in addition to the admitted
deficit on the State railways, that undertak-
ing has achieved a further loss of £820,000
in the last four years, which loss has just
been tardily disclosed. It occurs through
the non-payment by the Commissioners of
an amount equal to 2-1 per cent, on the capi-
tal cokt of rolling stock, and should come to
£250.000 a year, but the last four annual
payments have been only £50.000. £50.000.
£50,000 and £30,000. An added beauty is
given to this swindle on the kid by the fact
that the Commissioners, by means of extra
local rates, collect the 21 per cent, on the
rolling-stock used on new lines —such as the
Beech Forest extension —with mathematical
regularity.
Hughes, you remember, was going to “fol-
low t’'o light.” As he is still alive it is to be
presumi d that he did it in a gas helmet.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK,
Her Majesty's “The Pink Lady”
Palace “Very Good Eddie”
Tivoli Mu I ntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Smart Set
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Waltz Dream”
IiOYAL “Fair and Warmer”
Princess’s Gonsalez Opera Co.
Kino’s “Turn to the Bight”
Tivoli Mel utosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. liimia The Dandies
Hoyt’s Di: Luxe Olymi-ia Moving Pictures
Auditorium Fisk Jubilee Singers
The Gonsalez Opera Co. promises to re-
peat its previous success at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s. On Saturday a big house turned up
for another evening of “Trovatore” and
surfed in the sound-waves, as it were, with
all thfe enthusiasm of young Sydney at a
Manly carnival. A record tumult greeted
Cappelli, who responded to the welcome by
squeezing the last ounce of sweetness out of
his honey-sodden role. Vocally his Manrico
was a shower of pearls, but lie was not too
comfortable on the dramatic plane. In the
first place, a cruel tradition bad destroyed
liis dignity by condemning him to resemble
an advt. for Jaeger underwear. Also, he
had to endure an absurd tin hat, the port-
cullis or frontispiece whereof threatened to
fall and amputate his message at any
moment. Scamuzzi was a more confident
exponent of mediawal swagger as Conte di
Luna.' His scowl at Azucena was a revela-
tion of aristocratic choler, and he used his
fine voice to corroborate his annoyance, lie
also had a great reception, and swallowed
enough ovations to keep his ego content for
a month. Mrs. de Revers, whose attitude
to applause recalls a flapper before a tray of
cream-puff's, never let Eleonora be pushed
into obscurity, if mere shrilling could pre-
vent it. Yet she was more impressive when
her soprano was clambering noisily upstairs
than when it was stumbling over vibratos in
the basement, so to speak. Miss Russ has
parted with much of her tremulous enuncia-
tion and furnished a smoother rendering of
Azucena on Saturday. Cacialli’s veteran
basso also kept Ferrante in the forefront of
the proceedings. The band is an improved
institution, and the chorus more capable.
The opera, however, is as unfurnished as
before, and the anvil continues to look under-
sized for the purpose of an orchestral acces-
sory in the mountain scene of Act 11.
* * * *
Next Saturday the (lonsalez Go. repeats
“Cavalleria” and “Pagliacci,” a popular
double hill which was given last Tuesday.
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Eileen Sparks as
Elsie Tillinger.
Walter P. Richard-
son as Joe Bascom
(horn April 1 ).
"TURN TO THE RIGHT,” AT
When the Easter Cow is being led into
Sydney, “The Pink Lady” will be going—or
gone—from Her Majesty’s. So it’s time for
the laggards to get a move on. (P.S. —“Her
.Majesty’s” doesn’t refer to the Cow.)
“Very Good Eddie” is still going the pace,
and the first act has done about a thousand
miles of Hudson River travel at Sydney
Palace so far. The “Catskill” isn’t slow-
ing up, either.
Sydney Criterion will open for business
again oil Saturday, with Kathlene Mac-
donell and Charles Waldron in something
else American —-“Daddy Long Legs.”
There’s a curious likeness between Bagdad
and the Garden Theatre. Considerable sface
m the city by the Tigris is garden, where
pomegranates, figs, oranges, lemons and
dates abound ; and all these fruits are also
obtainable at the local show. Further the
Sydney site is occupied by the Smart’ Set
and if the Persian site isn’t occupied bv
another smart set this paper has been once
more deceived by the Censorship.
* :1: *
Dentine’s dive of 140 ft. (or thereabouts)
is one of the surest breath-catchers ever put
on at Sydney’s big amusement park the
White City. Iligh-diving has a wicked
fascination for the onlookers, for few are
perfectly satisfied until the accident hap-
pens. Then, as in the case of poor Peart
they clap-to the mental telescope and say
“There you are! Wliat’d I say!” inci-
dentally, the Wirtlis, whose circus' opens at
the Hippodrome (Sydney) in a few days,
had an offer last week from a man to high-
dive into 2ft. of water. The management
reckoned that it had enough trouble in the
menagerie already.
“TURN TO
THE
RIGHT,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Maurice Dudley as
Isadore the Lev.
Stapleton Kent as
Gilly, of the Rogues'
Gallery.
On Sydney screens this week:—
Lyceum: “The Heiress of Coffee Dan’s,” illustrat-
ing' the dreadful bore of possessing £1,000,000 ; “The
Crab,” a comedy-drama with child-actress Thelma
Salter in the lead.
CrystAll Palace : “The Bride of Hate” —nothing
to do with the Kaiser’s missus, but merely a melo-
drama of the old American eotton-slave days.
Ada Reeve will be along to help Sydney
Tivoli presently, and the house needs assist-
ance since Fred Bluett went to Melbourne.
Fast week the bill acquired the Mayos, a
shapely pair of trapezists. The male partner
swings the breadth of the stage whilst hang-
ing by his talented heels, and is so used to
travelling in that fashion that he can’t criti-
cise the way an audience laughs unless he
can get a view upside-down. Lonzo Cox
(“The World’s One Great Silhouettist”)
works confidently with a cute shadow-pro-
jecting machine, a pair of scissors and a
screen, and seems very pleased with the
results; but he invented a complete new
profile for King George the night this
writer saw him. Frank Markley is an
entertaining banj'oist while he sticks to rag-
time. But his attempt at grand opera might
easily cause murder and civil commotion.
Elsie Peerless and Zona Trador are the other
pillars of the tabernacle.
“A Waltz Dream,” which is a light opera
in three short acts and two long intervals,
deserves more vocal assistance than it gets
from the present co. at Melbourne Majesty’s.
It is full of music, sugary but undistinctive,
and rich in opportunities for the spectacular
frippery incidental to Court life in a petty
German principality. “A Waltz Dream,” in
short, is in the way of being a reminder of
“The Merry Widow,” and the present per-
formance seems very inadequate compared
with the production of seven years ago, when
Roberts and Florence Young took the
musical honors. On the male side of the
cast there are no voices to speak of, and the
chorus of courtiers is but a motley gathering
of citizens in garments that once were new.
Moreover, the comedians, being called upon
to supply self-made drollery, are unable to
execute the order. Workman, as the pre-
posterous parent of the royal bride, lacks
the essentials of extravagant stage humor,
and bis essays in broad caricature are dull
and stodgy. As for Alfred Frith, his style-


r
6^
C*
L
3 O ORD&S °N
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
j
.Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
The Old Reliable.
Daniel
gsd
DaRIU. C»*WfO*oi
SccmiYfHistf
CftUHf
Red. Star
WHISKY
Quality always the same.
Estp 1850 * •
-t
>1
' 'H
UNDERWEAR
—SCARCE GOODS ARRIVE
Last week we opened a consignment of unshrink-
able British Winter-weight Underwear —all wool,
and now unreplaeable. It is of good heavy weight,
soft, well finished and altogether reliable. Early
ordering for next winter is essential.
Shirts, 1 sleeves — .
36 38 40
11/6 12/3 13/-
Pants, full length—
-34 36 38 40 42 44
12/3 13/- 13/9 14/6 15/3 16/-
We Pay Postage. Please state chest and waist
measurements.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
300 & 311 George St., Sydney
42 44
13/9 14/6
less, mannahless bearing is crudely unsuit-
able to the character he murders. He offers
no suggestion of a scheming courtly ninconiT
poop, for even his face seems out of the pre-
sent picture.
* * * *
Marie Eaton, as the Princess whose Con-
sort goes astray on the wedding-night, gives
the stern critic a glad surprise. There is
a note of nuptial tenderness in her acting,
and her sometime harsh, unfeeling warble
is sweetened and modulated almost out of
recognition in her softer moments. Also
she and her lady-in-waiting (Ethel Morri-
son) are a pair of line women. They fill the
drapery bill. Dorothy Brunton is a bright
success as the saucy, sentimental leader of
a Ladies’ Band, who sends forth her soul in
a long, lingering kiss. Dorothy’s part degen-
erates into bathetic melodrama at the finish,
but she' saves it from absurdity. Connie
Ediss exploits her plumpness and her
familiar bleat as the hungry executant on
an empty drum ; Maguire is a mildly intelli-
gent Consort required to sing much music
(written for a tenor) in a small, baritonic
voice that often gets lost in amazement at
its temerity; and William Greene is an
uneventful newcomer in a pleasing uniform.
Field Fisher is a scarecrow waiter of minor
importance and MacCunn is the artist in
charge of the orchestra. “A Waltz Dream”
appears to be paving the way for “Canary
Cottage,” for which the public is requested
to get ready.
Taits’ tribute to the saving grace of
womankind and the softening influence of
peaches and jam continues to be presented
at Melbourne King’s. “Turn to the Right”
is a farcical drama that suggests Penitence
as a business proposition, and indicates that
it is better to crack the safe of the grinding
capitalist than leave him to rob the widow
of her valuable freehold. What worries this
paper, after duly approving of “Turn to the
Right,” is tiie thought that penitence works
out its own damnation, so to speak. In
turning utterly respectable, and thus qualify-
ing themselves to be made deacons, the blokes
from prison are probably sacrificing all their
original virtue. You can’t very well remain
penitent whilst expanding into a bloated
capitalist.
At Melbourne Royal the bewildering pic-
ture of Babylon and the Bloke will cease to
spasm after Friday, so anybody who wants
to read the riddle of Intolerance must hurry
up. On Saturday comes the new comedy
co. in “Fair and Warmer.”
Next Saturday, being St. Patrick’s own,
a grand national concert in aid of R.C.
charities will occur at Melbourne Town Hall.
The star soloist will be Goll and the advt.
specially mentions that he will perform on
a Wertlieim piano.
"VERY GOOD EDDIE,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Waiter Charles Pope tries to collect a tip
from Eddie (Barry Lupino).
Malcolm McEachern deserves honorable
mention in this week’s communique from
Melbourne Tivoli. Malcolm is a basso who
sings all things well, and even makes “The
Bandoliers” sound different from the swag-
gering fiasco of an average musical evening.
The Keeley and Aldous dancing act is dam-
aged by the unkempt appearance of Keeley
and Aldous, and that’s a pity, because the
act itself is good enough. The acrobatic
turn of Niagara and Falls is only notable
for the small gent’s frenzied efforts to dis-
tract attention from his ineffectual lady
partner. Stewart and Lorraine cause the
Death of Nelson on strange instruments of
music. Also, they endeavor to turn a
dinner into a mouth-organ oratorio, and only
achieve a series of noisy discords. Of the
other artists the most conspicuous are Sen-
Mei and trickster De Forrest. Mane Iving-
Scott is back with the old set of wheezes,
and another returned empty is the buxom
Belle Oliver. Now Fred Bluett has re-
appeared with a new grimace and several
mouthfuls of fresh airs.
At St. Kilda (Vic.) on Saturday The
Dandies revived their burlesque oratorio,
which is quaint in spots but generally leaves
a lot of burlesque to be desired. Among the
individual performers comedian Joe Bren-
nan made the greatest impression with two
singularly effective pictures of juvenile
depravity. His neat song, “Shall Us.
Let’s!” caused an epidemic of stinging
palms. Robert Agnew sang saccharinely ot
his “Dream Girl” to a dinky spectre in pale
blue. Ford Waltham also Sassoed in a
characteristic item, and Marshall Lawrence’s
baritone created a draught in a manly roar
called “Three for Jack.”
"THE PINK LADY," AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
The dancing detective ( Clyde Cook) and
D'Uzac (Leslie Holland).
Iloyt’s are again screening the classic
features of Olga Petrova in Melbourne. The
Metro star is the camera’s principal target
in an unusual subject, “The Black Butter-
fly,” which features, among other disturbing
elements, an Apache Dance and the Battle
of the Marne. The Sensation of the film,
however, is a bit of blood transfusion
whereby the busy heroine saves the life of a
dubious male acquaintance. The other long
him is “The Faded Flower” produced by the
new Joan firm. Marguerite Snow is a daisy
in the title role, and a band of well-known
photoplayers render strong support.
The Fisk Jubilee Singers commence a brief
season at the Melbourne Auditorium next
Saturday night. A new generation has
grown, lip since the Fisks were last in Mel-
Oourne, so there will be many in the audi-
ence to whom the work of the company will
be a complete novelty.
* * Mi Mi
Adelaide shows are waking up. “The
House that Jack Built” is being re-erected
at the Royal. The Tivoli, for the moment
realistic in “The Worlcgirl of Melbourne”
(Anderson Co.), promises to become fan-
tastic next week with the Strollers of Syd-
ney James and Co. The Majestic bill is
immensely strengthened by the juggling and
wire-walking Togos ; also Arnold and Pearl
Ladd are artistic in song. Picture-shows
seem tame after Kellerman, but Billie Burke
is at West’s, and Theda Bara, lately a sur-
prising Juliet at the Royal, has gone back to
her old part of a Serpent at Wondergraph.
Also the Town Hall now deals in pictures,
and the King’s promises to awake out of its
Summer sleep.
Give a German a pig and you give him a
companion.— Old Roumanian proverb.
Perth has just lost by death Mrs. Eliza
Tracey, a lady with a 20-year-old grievance
agin the Government. The wrong was well
advertised. Over the door of her cottage
was a sign to the effect that therein dwelt
“Eliza Tracey, Robbed by the Government,”
and she is credited with having written a
lengthy pamphlet on legal ethics. Almost
any Sunday afternoon her voice could be
heard on the Esplanade, haranguing a strag-
gling crowd on all sorts of subjects, with
her personal grievance as a central recurring
theme. She was a withered little nut of an
Irishwoman, full of enthusiasm and volu-
bility.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Stargazer” : The arrival of “Turn to the
Right," at Melbourne King's, strengthens a
belief I have long cherished that the Ameri-
can soul is profoundly sympathetic towards
all crooks. In nine out of 10 recent
Yank dramas that have attained popularity
either hero or heroine has been a criminal
with a sentimental streak. Even where
hero or heroine has pinched nothing and shot
nobody worth mentioning, one or more sym-
pathetic characters in your national Ameri-
can drama are bound to be gaolbirds, or
law-breakers not yet segregated. All this is
merely an offshoot of the American business
ideal.* Both business and politics in America
are worked on lines that must engender in
participants that fellow feeling for crooks
which sets up a wondrous kindness. So we
get American plays for American business-
men in which Business is represented up
against Law the ogre. Law is the business-
man’s bete noire as much as it is that of the
crook. Here you have the genesis of the
criminal hero, sentimentally conceived, slav-
ered with bathos, for the American drama is
engendered and written to comfort and con-
sole the off-moments of the American busi-
ness-man —not American gaolbirds. Such
conditions render possible the sympathetic
conjunction of the angelic “maw” and the
three criminals in “Turn to the Right. The
beautiful grey “maw” (with halo) represents
the American’s capacity to kid himself that
he really loves moral beauty, and clean-
living, and all that sort of thing, when he is
not too busy robbing just such sweet, gentle,
amiable old ladies as this unearthly “maw.”
That they are too innocent to discover what
he is up to renders them doubly lovable.
“Yarraguudry” : For Australia’s sake don’t
take the desert fighting on the screens seri-
ously. The Romani Battle and ensuing
four-days’ fighting was purely a -Light Horse
and Maoriland mounted division action. Eng-
lish Yeomanry were attached to us, but were
kept its reserves. For reasons which I must
not mention here, Katia still stinks in the
C.O.’s nostrils. Some weeks after Romani
the cinema fiend came along. We and the
Maorilanders were then at Hill TO, some
miles away, and got no invitation to the
party. The Egyptian Labor Corps (all
niggers) were sent to represent the Turks,
and the Yeomanry, in Tommy felt hats,
cavorted round representing our blokes.
Should the films reach Australia you will
understand why the lean (and we are lean
now) Anzacs have suddenly become moon-
faced.
“M.P.A.”: William Conway, a young Aus-
tralian pianist who made a start at the Aus-
tral competitions at Bendigo, lias got firmly
on his legs in vaudeville in Wilson’s wordy
territory. Conway hitched up with Cecil
Parkes, the small-boy violinist who left Aus-
tralia with his pa, and got a start with the
Orpheum people. They have just finished
some nine months on the circuit —a 7000-
mile job. As Conway is quite free from the
swank so prevalent in ’Murkan acts, he
has proved as refreshing as wattle-blossom.
The press has noticed it, and nearly every
report mentions William’s simplicity of
style. lie recently finished with Parkes, and
has now Hector Goldspink as a partner.
Goldspink is a Melbourne boy with a fine
tenor voice as an asset.
“Lannercost”: Eroni Bros., circus pro-
prietors, while visiting the Herbert (Q.)
a week or so ago, bought a 6ft. ’gator from
an Ingham resident. This saurian had
consistently refused all nourishment for over
12 months, and the only visible signs of the
fasting were a sort of shrunken appearance
round the neck and a slight depression under
the pinny. I reckon the show will be rushed
by people anxious to get a few points from
that solver of the high-cost-of-living problem.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Sorry to have
to correct Edward Dyson (B. 8/3/’l7).
G. V. Brooke was not in Australia in 1863,
and never held a lease of the Theatre Royal,
Ballarat. Dyson is probably thinking of
William Hoskins.
“Ancient Prompter”: “The Oldest In-
habitant” mentions (B. 22/2/T7) the in-
teresting fact that the original Shiel Barry,
whose success as the Miser in “Cloches de
Corneville” most of us have heard of, was
christened theatrically by the late W. 11-
Ford, who saw the two names in a news-
paper and fitted them together—a happy con-
junction. The nomenclature of the stage
would make a quaint and curious study. I
once asked a couple of pantomime comedians
who were brothers, born Smith, but called
themselves Wicksteed and Landerdale (or
something similar), how they came by their
moniker. “Got it off a cart,” was the reply.
“Cockaigne” : So we’re to get Tree at last!
lie is the most versatile actor I ever heard
of —Caliban, Col. Newcome, Bottom, Fal-
staff, Antony, Fagin, Hamlet, Herod, King
John, Macari, Macbeth, Mephistopheles,
Malvolio, Othello, Private Secretary, Rich-
ard the Second, Rip Van Winkle, Sir Peter
Teazle, Shyloclt, Ulysses, Wolsey. Yet, with
all respect for his very great talent, I must
dub him only an illuminative sketcher or
lecturer on his characters. There is no thrill
in him. One sighs for a flash of lightning,
as from a Kean or a Brooke. Devotees of
Macrendy, Phelps or Irving would not allow
Tree’s to be acting at all. A student’s man,
or a book in breeches, rather than flesh and
blood.
“Jwosp” ; I haven t noticed in. the retei-
ences to Henry Bracy any mention of the
scrap that occurred when his co. was play-
ing “Madame Angot.” Clara Thompson
was the Madame Lange, if I remember
aright, and Alice Lambert the Clairette.
There had been considerable jealousy be-
tween the two, and when the quarrel scene
in the last act of “Angot” came round it
developed into a free-for-all until the cui-
tain stopped the bout and hid a stage clut-
tered with rags, locks and hairpins. It was
the best scrap ever seen from the front stalls
in Australia.
“0.K.”: Ada Reeve is returning to the
Tivoli circuit. And (let’s hope) bringing
some new songs with her. The old
stuff was mostly “pussy,” or maudlin, or
both, and it was only the art and personality
of the winsome woman that made it go. It.
is fairly claimed for Ada that none of her
songs have ever been stolen by commonplace
serio-clironies. If other lips and other arts
had the temerity to tackle “The Day When
Baby First Wore Knickerbockers” —well,
the result would probably be fatal.
In winter time the stars come out and the
devout gazer is expected to get cold feet at
their concerts. The press-agent says that
Evelyn Scotney and husband Howard White
are “contemplating” a return visit to Aus-
tralia under J. and N. Tait direction. They
have, as a matter of fact, “contemplated so
far as to book' their passages from N’York
for June 0. That means evening-dress and
bouquets in windy July.
“Stargazer”: What is more persistent
than the mannerisms of an actor? The
Great Pyramid, perhaps. Here is Gaston
Mervale, back after a few years’ absence,
providing a striking example of the un-
changeable. I select Mervale because he
was always a pro. of conspicuous trickiness,
and he hasn’t lost a single trick. As he
was so he is, and ever shall be, world with-
out end, ah men! He stands in the same
old attitudes, tasting his words with com-
pressed lips, his tongue to his palate, like
a wine-tester, making the same peculiar
grimaces over each phrase, the same
gesticulations to a hair, the same quaint
shake of the body at more emphatic
sentences, as like the Gaston Mervale .of
years ago as the Sphinx of to-day is like
the Sphinx of last Spring. “Live and
learn” is a maxim for everyone but your
actor. I have never known one who after
35 developed as much as a bullet dropped
from its mould, which may contract a beauti-
ful smoothness.
“Trot”: When is someone going to mod-
ernise military opera? It seems about time
the soprano was discovered packing com-
forts with an E in alt or knitting coloratura
socks by the sad sea waves. Is there not
a chance here for local genius to seize one
of the old operas, tear nut the yarn that
nobody ever understood, and adapt the
melody (if any) to Australian conditions,
with the sound of battle in the orchestra
and repatriation as the grand finale? Thus
might someone restore the prestige of the
old-time musicians and turn opera into a
rational business.
THE TOUR THAT WASN’T.
[For Thb Bulletin.]
The tickets for England were taken,
The company booked to appear;
The comedy “Saving our Bacon”
Was staged in the House over here;
The Reps, they saw nothing agen it,
v The ushers they gave it a hand,
But the welcome it got in the Senate
Was quite of a different brand;
Oh, the Senate, the hard, deadly Senate,
For the play or the east wouldn’t stand!
The tickets for England were taken,
The troupe started picking its props,
When faith in the mummers was shaken,
And soon they were looking for “shops.”
For in London (the truth 1 must pen it),
Unless their credentials this side
Were approved and endorsed by the senate,
Their mumming was safe to be “guyed”!
The critics who sat in the Senate
Gave “the bird” and declared the show “snide.”
The tickets to England are forfeit,
The press-agents all have been sacked,
What time a fit crowd (perhaps more fit)
Is engaged that can better attract.
And (who knows?) to far abler men it
May fall to be stars in the show —
That’s the view of the much-abused Senate;
So the whole crowd, each posturing pro.,
Through the act of the hard-headed Senate
To the country—not England—will go.
VICTORIA.
RIVAL MUMMER.


LADIFS f It is not "iven to every Woman to be born beautiful, but EVERY
. WOMAN CAN BE CoMEI ,Y with PROPER CARE OF HER PERSON,
which is as much credit as the exquisite home in perfect order.
THE FINE, SMOOTH SKIN, THE CHARM OF DAZZLING TEETH, THE LUXURIANT
HAIR all make for Comeliness.
“BEAUTY LAUGHS AT ALL DISTINCTIONS."
John §
OHN STRANGE w
TOILET PREPARATIONS are for the GODDESS OF B ; AUTY.
Powders (3 tints), New Face Cream (2 colors), Lakshmi Cream and Lotion, Soap, Hair
Foods, Carmine, Dry Shampoo, Perspiration Powder, etc., etc.
THEY HAVE WON SIX GOLD MEDALS and are USED BY ROYALTY.
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Washington H. Soul, Lassetter’s, McCathie’s, David
Jones, Horderns, W. T. Waters, McDowell and Hughes, etc., etc.
Send 2d. stamp for sample of Soap or Powder to John Strange Winter (London,
Paris, Rome). Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street. Melbourne Office: 331
Collins Street. Adelaide Office: Steamship Buildings, Currie Street.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT-
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This >iodex*n and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“Yarragundry:” The Gyppo bootblack s
impression of the difference between the
Tommy and the Anzac: “Tommy come he
say, ‘Oi, choom! Has your mother any
children? Give me a shine and I'll give ee
half a piastre.’ Anzac come along he
say, ‘Come on you (censored) black (several
things), shine these boots!’ And he give
me one piastre.”
“Muriobits” : You’ve read about the Front
where men have been drowned in the mud ?
Well, that’s where the following little mili-
tary fashion-note was tapped out by some
regimental typist and circulated for our
guidance:—
Commanding Officers will be held responsible that
all their officers proceeding on leave are informed of
these instructions: —
Belts must always be worn.
Sticks must invariably be carried.
Gloves to be worn or carried in the hand visibly.
Pipes never to be smoked in public places.
Military great-coats must never be worn over
plain clothes, and when worn in uniform must be
properly buttoned up.
Fancy socks are forbidden.
Shoes, if worn, trousers must be turned down.
Dancing is not allowed in public in uniform.
You can always make a Hit by quoting that
bit about dancing to some poor, weary cow
with five pounds of Somme mud on each
boot.
From a Billjim in an English dry dock :
Some game of the green and highly-scented variety
approved by J. Bull was forwarded to this hospital,
and the matron, an Englishwoman, delighted to have
such a delicacy for her Australian lads, took it in
to show them, as happy as could be. But her
happiness was short-lived. The poor, ignorant Bill-
jims turned it down. Their uneducated Australian
stomachs had no fancy for such lining. The missus
pitied them, and decided that if they had once
tasted game they would never refuse it again. Con-
sequently, next time a consignment was dug up and
sent in she didn’t say anything about it, but just
had it prepared and sent round the wards. Imagine
her feelings when she found all the Jimbills sitting
up in bed and roaring for their gas helmets!
NOT SO SURE OF THEIR DEVOTION.
OFFICER : “By Gad, y’ know, the devotion of
our brave fellows is magnificent.”
SHE: “Um — yes—I suppose so. But a lot
of them are frightful flirts.”
“D.F.” : State and Federal politics haven’t
a monopoly of queer incidents. Not long
ago the council clerk of a down-south muni-
cipality lost his job as the result of a mis-
placement of funds. The auditor reported
that it was a pretty clear case, but as the
money was paid the thing was hushed up.
The next happening was a vacancy on the
council, and the ex-clerk got himself elected
and was present to hear and discuss the
report about the irregularities of the late
council clerk.
“Saint”: Anybody entering tenders for
the job of spending five hours 12ft. under
water, head down, is hereby informed that
Walter Smith, a diver employed by the
Union Steamship Co. at Wellington (M.L.),
has completed the job. He went down to
clear a steel hawser which had fouled the
propeller of the stranded Mararoa, and after
he had been below some time the men above
found they could get no reply to signals, nor
DEAD ON.
“Would you scream if I kissed you?"
“I don't see how I can if you kiss me on the
right place."
could they haul him up. Another diver was
sent for; hut, as it was Sunday, there was
a delay of some hours before he could be
found. When he did descend lie found
Smith so firmly held in a bight of the hawser
that it was a work of considerable difficulty
to clear him. It was certainly Smith’s lucky
day, for the only thing about him that hadn’t
fouled was his air pipe.
* * * *
Adelaide’s police-barracks have been
moved at last from the site behind the
Museum, which they have occupied since
the earliest days of S. Aus. The British
soldiers, as long as there were any, were
quartered there, too, and so was the gaol,
which has long since been r oved down to
the north-west corner of the city. That is
where the police have now gone, too, some
of the olive plantation 'nearby being sacri-
ficed for their new barracks. The ground
had in very early days been used as a dump-
ing-place for rubbish of various kinds, and
the foundations took a bit of basing in con-
crete, but £16.000 has made a complete and
comfortable-looking job—-including a billiard-
room.
* * * *
“Desirable Villain”: The estate agent’s
life has its- bright spots. The other day a
stout, prosperous-looking missus came
around to look over our property list. She
chose a neat outfit, priced at £4OO and bring-
ing in 8 per cent, gross, and said
she’d take it. I suggested the
usual deposit. “Oh, d’y’ want a
deposit V” the old thing exclaimed.
“I assure y’ I’ll take it, orright.”
I explained that it was the custom
of all agents to ask for a payment
with which to clinch any sale,
since a ready-cash buyer might
come along in the meantime. “But
—er —when,” I asked, carefully,
“would you be able to close the
purchase?” “Why,” missus said,
“me husband’s just made his will.
He showed it t’ me this morn’, an’
he’s left me £5OO. The doctor
says he can’t possibly larst out
the week.” Well, business is busi-
ness, and as the missus didn’t have
the deposit I generously agreed to “keep it
for ’er” —a verbal agreement, of course. She
paid the £4OO yesterday.
“Yarragundry” : Thanks to (Oh, all right!)
we now have the privilege of travelling
second class on the Egyptian railways, pro-
vided there is sufficient room on the train.
Previously third-class (“Gyppo”) carriages
were reserved for Billjim, as Defence Min-
ister Pearce said. But it was only for Bill
on duty. Bill on leave had nothing reserved
for him; he just had to pig in with the
natives. The new rule changes that, though
it does it haltingly. _
The crayfish makes a pleasant enough dish
when properly dismembered and sorted out.
but he needs attention of this kind before
being allowed to come to table. Once a
Vic. Governor was bidden to a banquet
arranged by a wowser mayor. The feast
was spread by the Mayor’s missus and a
select party of the missus’s pals. It con-
sisted mostly of cakes and sandwiches, but
along the groaning board at intervals of
six feet or so of scarlet
crayfish was placed,
ready to be torn to
pieces by the guests.
There were half-a-
dozen outsize speci-
mens on the Gover-
nor’s table. When
his Ex. arrived he
gave one wild, fright-
ened look around the
chamber of red death
and then made firmly
for his seat, eyes
front, with the air of
a man determined to
do his duty at all
costs. Shortly after-
wards an aide stole
stealthily to the near-
est ’phone and sent a
message to Govern-
ment House, tilling
the butler to keep
dinner on the side of
the stove until further
notice. Excellency
politely nibbled a
sandwich, drank a
glass of sodawater,
made his little speech
and then tore himself
away. It was one of
the briefest banquet
attendances recorded
by any Y’ic. Governor.
But the mob sensibly stayed on and shredded
the very last crayfish before retiring for
the night.
* • * * *
Still another lawyer on the prospects of
the profession in connection with the infant
N. S. Wales Workmen’s Compensation Act:
Speaking with some experience of the workings
of the Employers’ Liability Act 1897, I can safely
say that the lawyers—for the employers at any rate
—have not made a hatful in costs, and that,
although the Act allows many, exceptions, employers,
or rather the underwriters behind them, very rarely
contest claims unless an important principle is in-
volved, because it is always “something to nothing.”
In theory the Act was framed to give the poor man
a fair chance against his better-financed employer,
but in actual practice it has given him the thick
end of the stick, as, win or lose, the employer always
stood to drop his costs. As a result the “spec.”
lawyer has been able to hold out for compensation,
not on what a jury would give his client, but on
the basis of what. it would cost the employer to
contest and win. Although the winner has legal
recourse against the loser, the employer has a very
poor chance of “lifting” At 100 or £2OO from the
working man or woman plaintiff. “Sub-section 2,”
who discussed the prospects the other day in The
BULLETIN, looks to the 1916 Act’s definition of an
accident —“Personal injury by accident arising out
of and in the course of employment”—to provide a
harvest for the lawyer, lie spoils his case by show-
ing that under the present 1910 Act only five cases
in all have been fought during the'rpast five years,
and on this point the wording of the two Acts is
absolutely identical.
THE GESTIGULAR RAGE.
FIRST SHE (in background): “Doesn't she
look tired out since she married old
Gohenstein.”
SECOND DITTO: “Yes; the poor girl can get
no rest the way he talks in his sleep."
FIRST SHE: "Why doesn't she tie up his
hands?"
A TRIANGLE OF LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was an ancient man who told the tale,
A hoary elder bearded like the rope
That weary fingers tease in some cold jail
Where never comes tobacco, beer or hope,
llis oakum whiskers, wagging to and fro
From toothless jaws, proclaimed his faded woe.
“She was the peach of all the world,” he cried,
“As dark and winsome as a summer night.
She could not look unpleasant if she tried ;
And to her fingertips there throbbed delight
In the young gladness of the happy spring
When all the ways were sweet with bloom and wing.
“I met her on a Friday afternoon
Somewhere in George-street near a draper’s shop.
A distant band evolved a sleepy tune
From tubes of brass ; and on the highest top
The G.P.O. complained with bunting thin
That the Brindisi mail at last was in.
“Little I cared for mails or flags or bands
Who saw the dusky glory of her eyes.
The small, slim sweetness of her gloveless hands
All in an instant made my hot soul wise.
I raised my hat and asked her then and there
To come to Paris —Cairo —anywhere.
“We compromised with Manly. On the beach,
While rolling surf caressed the sand with foam,
I learned the young taste of the purest peach
That ever strayed on Cossack boots from home.
The flavor of her lips remains with me
As when we kissed that evening by the sea.
“Thereafter often in the starry night,
Or shaded by some herbage from the moon,
We sought all ways where waters of delight
On happy sand or sandstone love to croon.
All trams that electricity can shove
And every ferry-boat observed our love.
“Of ice-cream we absorbed a thousand quarts,
Of chocolate our joy consumed a ton;
And still the beating of our happy hearts
Proclaimed how great a prize we each had won.
We never wearied telling earth and air
How much we liked each other’s eyes and hair.
“So things were good, as you may well suppose.
I loved her for the dimple on her chin,
I loved her for the tip-tilt of her nose
And for her yielding lips as red as sin;
And she loved me for all the manly grace
I 'carried in my proud and perfect face.
“Her name was Kate. The other girl was Flo.
And Flo, I must admit, was sweet and kind.
1 loved her also and I told her so ;
For love like mine is fortunately blind.
She had not quite the peachy taste of Kate,
Though both looked much the same at half-past eight.
“On Monday and ou Thursday Flo was mine ;
Fridays and Sundays all were Kate’s alone.
But every Saturday when nights were fine
My strong impartiality was shown;
For Kate came on from four till five past seven
And Flo from eight till twenty to eleven.
“Thus, working double shifts, my heart beat well;
And Flo’s delicious kiss could bring me joy,
While Kate, more gracious than all words could tell,
Wore a dark sweetness that might never cloy.
And so unharmed we took our triple way,
Triangular in love from day to day.
“I do not make excuse. Wild war and rude
Had blown a call to manhood far and near.
’Twas surely mine to do whate’er I could.
Male love was scarce; and either girl was dear.
1 found them most expensive, but with pride
Observed that each would make a lovely bride.
“It was a happy evening, bright and warm,
When Fate her sharpest shears in anger drew.
The heedless Saturday was full of charm,
The skies above were exquisitely blue;
And Kate and I in happy homing stept
Down the long street whose dust since morn had slept.
“With seven brazen strokes the G.P.O.
Announced the scheduled parting kiss of Kate.
Our hot lips lingered till the voice of Flo
(The girl whose sweetness was not flue till eight)
Broke with a sudden anger on my ear
That caused my knees and soul to sag with fear.
“My curse upon the daylight-saving scheme
That for a week had maddened all the clocks!
Kate’s gladness ended in a sudden scream
With Flo’s ten fingers in her raven locks ;
And all the street became a flying whirl
Of frenzied petticoat and raging girl.
“I turned. 1 fled. Age caught me in an hour
And lined my face and whitened all my hair
As if a sudden avalanche of flour
Poured on me from the mountains of despair.
1 ran and ran from those wild shears of Fate
Whose closing blades were Flo attached to Kate.
“Three weeks I ran, nor dared to turn my head,
Fearful of vengeance still upon my track,
Until these whiskers, sprouting as 1 fled,
Disguised my features. Now 1 wander back,
Sure that however woe my draught may mix x
No girl will dream I am but twenty-six.”
It was an ancient man who told the tale,
A hoary elder bearded like a rope.
His eye was blank, his wrinkled cheek was pale,
He seemed devoid of teeth and shame and hope;
And yet the lie he told had moved me so
I wondered sadly what Kate did to Flo.
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


g
dsg
sd
—try wearing
CREPE for
Pyjamas
VOU should wear soft Crepe if the pyjamas
1 you're wearing now are not as light and
as ** comfy" as they ought to be
Crepe is beautifully luxurious —inexpensive,
too, and lasts a very
long; time.
PRICE 8(6
Post Free — *
SUIT.
PLEASE STATE HEIGHT AND CHEST MEASURE.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
BRISBANE.
If you’re particular about what you drink make
sure you get Thorne’s Whisky—in the black square
bottle.- It’s the spirit that particular men particu-
larly like. Its subtle, delicate flavor- —invariably
mellow, smooth and satisfying—makes it very accept-
able to a discriminating man. The perfect quality
has been maintained for over 80 years.
Try THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[1
THE “SMITH”
•
ADTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You’ll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
HAVE YOU REALLY GOT
DYSPEPSIA?
THE MAGNESIA TEST.
Physicians say that there are compara-
tively few cases of true dyspepsia, the
majority of the people who complain of this
justly-dreaded ailment being merely victims
of excessive acidity of the stomach. Now
there is a simple test whereby anyone can
tell whether the pain experienced after eat-
ing is due to excessive acidity or to real
dyspepsia. Obtain from the chemist some
bisurated magnesia and immediately after
your next meal take half a teaspoonful of
this in a little water. If, as is more than
likely, the symptoms which now distress you,
such as heartburn, flatulence, flushed face
and an uncomfortable feeling of fulness, are
due to acidity you will benefit considerably
from the use of bisurated magnesia, because
it instantly neutralises the dangerous acid
and also prevents all possibility of food
fermenting in the stomach. On the other
hand, should no benefit follow the use uV
bisurated magnesia, it may be assumed that
there is some derangement of the stomach
or digestive organs requiring a physician’s
personal attention. But give the bisurated. l
magnesia a good trial first, taking care, of
course, that you get genuine bisurated mag-
nesia, and you will probably find that its
valuable antacid properties will safeguard
you against all unpleasantness and discom-
fort after eating.— Advt.
All the horrors are hot in Flanders or
Armenia; some of them are in the next
street. On December 1 last a little girl of
five, daughter of a Smythesdale (Vic.)
engine-driver, was so badly burned through
her dress catching fire that the post-mortem-
ing doctor said one leg should have been
amputated immediately and that the spine
was exposed and charred. Her parents
weren’t Huns or Turks, so they took her
to a Chinese herbalist. He recommended
the Ballarat hospital at once; but as they
said they preferred yellow medicine to white,
Ah Sin applied honey and liquorice powder,
without dressings. The poor little mite grew
no better on this treatment; but the parents
had great faith in the slant-eyed fraud, so
she continued getting no bette 1, for three
long and horrible months —till February 27,
when, being then a mere bag of bones, some
of them charred, she passed to a world that
can hardly be worse for her. After learning
these hideous facts the Coroner opined that
the child died from “shock, arising from
burns.” The actual cause of death, of course,
was gross ignorance—the gross ignorance of
relatives; the grosser ignorance of a Chinese
person who is permitted to treat dreadful
burns and charred bones with honey and
liquorice powder. The other day a man
who wasn t a qualified pharmacist was fined
heavily for measuring out a few drugs and
compounding them according to a doctor’s
prescription. But Ah Sin, who isn't a quali-
fied pharmacist either, can weigh out his
useless remedies without any doctor’s pre-
scription, and apparently the Law merely
wishes him luck with his next victim.
Why do men trouble to go burgling when
there are beer-pumps available? The licensee
of a Rand wick (Sydney) hotel tried to be
pathetic for a Rent Abatement Court last
week in order that his rent might be cut
down from £1)36 a year to £520. lie had
paid a bonus of £9OOO to go into the house
with a lease of 21 years, for the. first five of
which he had agreed to pay a rental of
£936, and £lO4O for the rest of the term.
He had made a profit of between £3OOO and
£4500 in the first two years, and when it
was pointed out that he could pay back the
bonus in five years, he muttered regretfully
that the lessor had reckoned he could clear
ALL THAT WAS LACKING.
MABEL: “Yes, Rupert and I are engaged,
but it is a secret as yet.”
MOLLY: “A secret?”
MABEL: “Yes—until I succeed in making
him comprehend that we ARE engaged.”
it off in two. Early closing had increased
the bottle trade; but the rate at which
mother came for father’s beer couldn’t make
up for the 0 to 11 revelry. The profit on
a dozen bottles of beer was a mere Is. 6d.,
while the good old pump returned a steady
100 per cent. The chairman of the bench
wasn’t touched; he merely remarked that,
if the case was a fair sample of others to
come, he couldn’t see much comfort ahead
for publicans.
“C. Sec.”: We sent an orderly to head-
quarters for some maps. “Got an ordah i”
demanded a haughty youth. “No, sir. ’
“Well, how am Ai to know that you-ah
not a Turk?” “Probably they left that to
your intelligence, sir,” was the quiet reply.
The maps were hastily handed over.
“S.G.R.”: While I was walking the hos-
pitals I was quite on my own and extremely
short in the financial sense. I had
taken a room in a house in South
Yarra, and one day when poking
about at the back of my grate to
see what was choking the damper
1 fished out a chamois-leather bag.
Out of this I emptied about £2OO
worth of assorted jewellery on to
the floor. For over three months
I had been in possession of that
room, and nobody had said a word
about lost property. Now, honesty
is my curse. I set to work and
discovered the name and where-
abouts of the former occupants of
the house, and eventually called
with my bag of valuables. Mrs.
Blank saw me, and
when 1 explained the
poor woman was ter-
ribly distressed. “Dear,
dear me!” she ex-
claimed, “I remember
quite well now putting
the things in the chim-
ney. But this is most
unfortunate. I would
not have had it happen
for any money. I sup-
pose you Would not care
to keep the jewellery?”
I stared in astonishment.
“You see,” she went on,
“my husband kicked his
brother . out of the
house, believing he had
stolen those things, and
life would not be worth
living if we had to have
James back in such cir-
cumstances.;” Even to
oblige a lady I would
not accept the missing
jewels, and left, conscience-stricken, realis-
ing that I had put a poor woman in a rather
tight place.
The P. and O. Co. has decided
to revert to agencies in Australia
and do away with the office of
superintendent. The company
was founded as far back as 1837,
“The Peninsula” being the first
scene of operation ; the extension
to “the Orient” occurred in 1840.
Twelve years later the first vessel
of the co.’s Australian fleet came
to Sydney. She was the Chusan,
of 699 tons gross tonnage and 80
horse-power—a new vessel re-
cently launched, barque-rigged,
and (the seas being full of devils)
carrying three guns. Henry Dow
was her colnmander. Sydney was
so proud of the .advent of a mail
steamer that it burst into a grand
ball, held, of all places in the
world, in the Museum Building,
August 26, 1852; a public holi-
day was observed, and “The
Chusan Waltz” was the piece of
the evening. However, the
Crimean War presently interfered
with the regular mail steamers
and the sailing vessels again "got
a show. Subsequently for many
years Melbourne was the head-
quarters of the co. in Australia.
When, later, Sydney became the
terminus, Henry Moore, o f
Moore’s Wharf, Miller’s Point,
became agent and held the billet
until a branch office was estab-
lished in Sydney under the con-
trol of a superintendent nominated
in London. The first Australian
superintendent was F. R. Ken-
dall, with headquarters in Mel-
bourne (1866) ; he was followed
by Geo. Withers; then came E. Trelawney,
and finally A. Gordon Wesche.
* * * *
“Arden Hill”: At Newcastle recently
Judge Edmunds commented upon the scanty
and unsuitable house accommodation pro-
vided for N. S. Wales coal-miners, especially
on the South Coast and in the Western dis-
trict. Ilis Honor’s remarks are but the
echo of complaints which have been made
to Ministers for many years, and promptly
forgotten. On the South Coast the trouble
is confined mostly to the northern end of
the district, in the vicinities of Coalcliff,
Scarborough and Coledale. Owing to the
dearth of houses the bulk of the employees
in these pits are compelled to travel to and
from their toil by workmen’s train —some
of them a distance of 15 miles, in draughty
corridor carriages with clothes damp after
the rush from underground. It was under-
stood a few years ago that Crown land
between Scarborough and Coalcliff was to
be set apart for the erection of suitable
working-men’s cottages. A lease held by
one of the mining companies was also to
have been made available. But there was
some quibbling over the construction of an
overhead bridge across the railway, access,
and one tiling and another, and eventually
all the schemes collapsed. It would seem
as though tumble-down dwellings and un-
“CUTTING UP THE BIG ESTATES.”
sightly humpies are inseparable from coal-
mining in N. S. Wales. There is not a
tunnel mouth on the Coast the vicinity of
which is not disfigured -with these wretched
makeshifts. Some of them are lop-sided
with age and have roofs secured with logs
nnd boulders; bachelors’ humpies crouch
like dwarfs by the side of mountain path-
ways ; and galvanised-iron terraces bake the
inmates in summer and freeze them in win-
ter. Some are unprovided with drainage
or water supply, and the sanitary arrange-
ments are most primitive. Not long ago an
Inspector reported that some of the resi-
dents,- lacking sanitary conveniences of any
kind, utilised the bush near by. What are
known as “company’s houses” are usually
the crudest of the lot, and appear to have
been run up or jumbled up without any
thought of the inmates’ comfort. No wonder
the coal-miner is a wild, unreasonable indi-
vidual at times. You can’t reason like a
judge wdien half your life is spent in a pit
and the other half in a hovel.
* * * *
“Marmoset”: The girls were just starting
to wash-up after tea, when Mrs. Brown
gushed in. As the English mail had arrived
we knew 7 she had come with news of Joe.
(Joe is son of Mrs. Brown and the affianced
of my sister Helen.) There was news all
right—a cable: “Married yesterday, remit
£20.” Without a word Helen flung down the
wiping-up cloth and rushed into her bed-
room. Silence for a second, and then a wail
from my young sister by the dish: “Well,
you might have waited till after the wash-
ing-up was done to tell her!”
“Observer” : If “Murkah” wants to know-
why the N. S. Wales railways do not launch
out in an expensive electric-lighting installa-
tion to advertise themselves and provide a
market for his friends, let him read the last
annual report furnished by the Commission-
ers, and two or three sets of figures will
show the heavy expenditure they are called
upon to meet: —
Increases in wages owing to Wages Board
awards coming into operation since the
commencement of the year ... ..£129,401
Automatic increases due to earlier awards 72,982
Increased cost of materials .. .. 97,980
That was last year ; and as forecasted by the
Commissioners, the burden for 1917 will be
heavier still. That and the loss of business
brought about by the selfish coal strike,
together-with the increased cost of fuel care-
fully passed on to the public, w-ill answ-er
his questions. Better for “Murkah” to in-
vest in a pair of spectacles so that he can
read in the train rather than pile up the
working expenses both of the department
and the producing interests of the State in
the manner suggested.
“Homaitikai” : So J. Bull is having roast
seagull, and somebody lias cabled out that
it tastes like mutton-bird. Well, well!
Thank Heaven, the enemy has no longer a
mastery of the air, anyhow. But you can
take it from me that if this strain of poultry
gets into general circulation the shrinkage
in the bingey department is going to flood
the market with secondhand pants. The
mutton-bird and the gull are aoout as much
alike in the nude as a barbwire fence and a
jumbuck. The first is a slothful animal; the
gull an athlete. The mutton-bird accumu-
lates layers of fat on its meat and travels
by easy stages from the last feed to the next
sleep. * The gull works up muscle and carries
a small reserve of fat in its innards. If you
know how to cook a mutton-bird and take
lessons in carving, something to eat can be
annexed without distributing smell for more
than half a mile. But when a gull gets on
the grill it promptly distills into attar
of 27 sharks, and leaves but its bones and
sinews as a souvenir. Not having been par-
ticular what it swallowed, though its prefer-
ence was for something pretty gamey, the
defunct gull naturally uoesn’t mind what its
flavor is in the pantry. If Bigjohn Forrest
ever gets to England and has to be nourished
on seagull while he is there, he ought to try
to run the blockade with a few ham sand-
wiches to start with, anyway.
* * * *
K. G. Nesbit, president of the Licensing
Court in Adelaide, turned loose recently on a
“shockingly improper” action of someone who
had written him an anonymous letter about a
certain hotel. Not only was it "flagrant con-
tempt of court,” but the writer made the
“usual hypocritical statement, ‘I do not sign
my name for obvious reasons.’ ” The obvious
reason, said the S.M., warming up, was that
the writer was “a cur and a sneak, who was
trying to do an injury behind the back of
the licensee, and who would not come for-
ward honorably and make his charge in open
court.”
* * * *
The impish old Theodore Hooke joke was
played off on a young, newly-wed couple in
THE STRIKE-BREAKER.
Luminous hats composed mostly of radium are
beign worn in the darkened London streets.
Fashion note.
A new fashion that might be encouraged in
Sydney if the workers are going to make
a hobby of gas strikes, as they threaten
to.
a stylish Melbourne suburb a couple of
weeks back. The Blanks had returned
from their honeymoon and been installed
in their home about two hours when beds
began to arrive, and before closing-time
efforts had been made to deliver quite 300
samples upon their property. Practically
every furnishing warehouse in the metropo-
lis had been ordered to drop in on the
Blanks with one or more Deds, and after
repudiating 20 the male Blank hired a
transitory gardener to stand at the gate and
turn the dreadful things away. The last to
arrive was a small second-hand dealer with
a huge wooden bedstead on a handbarrow.
Everybody in the street enjoyed the fight he
put up with the keeper of the gate before
departing with his burden —that is, every-
one but the Blanks.
THE RETURN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And I watch the track on the Redsoil Plain
To the east when the day is late,
For one who shall surely come back again,
In summer’s heat or in winter’s rain,
Limping under his swag in pain—-
For a wounded Anzac mate.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


ACQUITTED WITHOUT A STAIN.
The Court decides there is no case for a Royal Commission.


CLEANING OUT THE STABLE.
“Struth, it’s a stinking job. Ought’ve been done months ago.”


“A contented mind is a continual feast”—you get
both when you drink Martell’s Brandy. There are
no better judges than Britons, and they decide in
favor of Martell’s every time. From George I. to
George V. Martell’s has been supreme—not only the
favorite in England but in France as well. It. is
superior for social purposes, and being rich in the
higher ethers is also unequalled in cases of sick-
ness. *
MARTELL’S brandy.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [1
TkeCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each."
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
gsd
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free,
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne.
VICTORIA.
/
IW
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
x.- taring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
V
ME
rr.
g
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
pry <sm
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MORAL COURAGE.
MAUDIE : “He must be awfully brave to hare
enlisted.”
MAISIE : “Oh, he's not the only one.”
MAUDIE : “No, but fancy daring to wear
puttees with legs like those!”
James Gardiner, the new Westralian
Speaker, made some sort, of a reputation as
Colonial Treasurer of the James Adminis-
tration in 1902 ; but his subsequent political
career added nothing to his reputation. lie
was the chief engineer in the formation of
the Country party, but after a comparatively
brief reign the hayseeds tired him in favor of
Willmott, whose brilliance never gives him
headaches. Personally Gardiner is a good
fellow, a tireless storyteller, and highly emo-
tional. He has one excellent qualification
for the Speakership—a slight defect in hear-
ing.
The Bulletin prize for tact goes to
Bruce Smith this week. Speaking in the
Heps, last week, lie asked if it was a fact
that Maltese were imprisoned on a hulk in
Sydney Harbor, and what legal justification
there was for placing an embargo on them.
-I countryman of the Maltese teas at present
the Governor of one of the States. It is a
rule of the Boy Scout troop to which Bruce
belongs to do at least. one kind deed to a
State Governor every day.
The curiosity amongst the candidates pre-
senting themselves for the N. S. Wales
State elections is Percy Watson Brunton,
who puts in a claim for Darlinghurst against
Levy and his selected Labor opponent. John
Farrell. He is the most talkative and popu-
1a r of Syd-
ney Domain
notables, dresses
in a top hat
and frock coat
an d decorates
himself with
whistles a n d
other trifles.
It is all done
to attract trade
to a peanut
business, which
i s profitable
enough to enable
him to pay fre-
quent fines for-
obstructing the
traffic.
LUCIEN
DECHAINEUX.
Principal of the
Hobart Technical
School, a good
Australian ,
though born in
Liege, Belgium.
A. A. Kirkpatrick, who has been chosen
to lead the U.L.P. in South Aus. against
Crawford Vaughan, is a Londoner by birth,
hut has been in Adelaide nearly all his life.
He was one of the first Labor men to get
into Parliament (1891), and spent most of
his time after that in the Log. Council —
including* a term as Chief Secretary and
Minister of Industry—before going to Lon-
don in 1909 as Agent-General. After his
service there was over, he was unlike the
average Agent-General in (1) returning
home promptly and (2) being as keen in
politics as ever. lie will be 70 next year.
Dead at Wellington (M.L.L John Robert
Cole, “Tiaki” of many good Bulletin Abo.-
Maori paragraphs. In his 40 years he had
followed many occupations, including house-
painting, whaling, interpreting and journal-
ism. He was a recognised authority on
Maori folk-lore, and from his sympathetic
insight into the Maori character he was
much beloved by Iloni, whose interpretation
of ms first name (“Jack”) he signed to all
his paragraphs. A generous and unselfish
spirit found him many friends among the
pakeha.
Pen-portraits of politicians, from Pro-
fessor Scott’s new “Short History of Aus-
tralia” :
Barton.—A constructive statesman of wide grasp
and deep learning, who had determined to make this
(Federation) the main purpose of his political life.
Kingston.—A man of haughty temper, notwith-
standing his strong democratic leanings; at his best
intellectually as a draftsman of Parliamentary bills.
He spoke in _ a series of emphatic spasms heaved
forth in a voice of thunder ; but when he took pen
in hand to prepare an Act of Parliament he had
command of a crisp precision of phrase, and a sure
sense of the value , of words, that could express a
meaning in the shortest and most unmistakable
terms.
Watson.—His retirement was regretted by all
parties, for he had made his mark as a fair fighter,
a clear thinker, and a cool, courteous and able
political leader.
Fisher.—With none of the graces of speech) he
had yet, by constant practice at the expense of his
audience, acquired some readiness in debate. His
vein of Scotch caution was allied to a strong will,
which, of course, his opponents described as sheer
obstinacy. Shrewd if rather slow, keen if a little
insensitive, he never lacked personal dignity, and
when unruffled by the passions of conflict was
courteous to all. A thoroughly loyal friend and a
man of staunch rectitude.
Keid. —His fund of humor was not the least of
his endowments; and it was employed to give liveli-
ness to a rare gift of dignified and impassioned elo-
quence, and to a quick-witted skill in debate, which
would seize upon a chance word as it flew and return
it as a weapon barbed....A leader whom nature
designed in a mood of kindness to' political carica-
turists.
John Gavan Duffy, who died last week,
aged 73, was the eldest son of Charles Gavan
Duffy, of much political fame in Britain and
Australia. John was born in Dublin in
1844, the year that saw his father, then pro-
prietor of The Nation, on trial with O’Con-
nell and others for conspiracy, lie came to
Victoria in 1859, four years after his father’s
arrival in that State. On leaving school he
went upon the land, but changed his mind
and studied law. For 30 years he repre-
sented Dalhousie in the Leg. Ass. and had
numerous Ministerial jobs, the lirst of them
in the Service Government, away back in
1880, when John Madden was Minister of
Justice. The late Tommy Bent had liis
first taste of office at the same time.
Back into Maoriland’s Parliament, John
Findlay, formerly Ward’s Attorney-General
and for a long while before that the private
adviser of Seddon. Findlay takes the
Ilawkes Bay seat held by Robert McNab,
and for the first time gets into the House of
Reps. Before the arrival of Massey he
decorated the Leg. Council. Findlay went
with Ward to the Imperial Defence Confer-
ence of 1911, and while in London ivas mis-
guided enough to accept a knighthood. Stung
by the loud jeers of the populace when he
got back he resigned from the Council and
“submitted himself to the people,” selecting
the apparently safe electorate of Parnell. It
looked a good thing, for poor old Frank
Lawrie had been able, in spite of his *sins, to
get through there for many years—and if
Lawrie why not Findlay? When the gale
was over John deposited what was left of
himself in the next train for home, and a
youthful draper proudly thanked the democ-
racy for dragging him away from the bar-
gain-counter. Findlay is a Iv.C., owns a
nimble mind, a mellifluous tongue and a
tendency to the milder radicalism. Had he
been able to find a punch and evade the
penalty of being a Superior Person who in-
variably approaches the public, in a manner
of speaking, with a clinical thermometer in
one hand and a spoonful of cough-mixture
in the other, he might have gone a long way.
W. LI. Forrest, who becomes N. S. Wales
Stamp Commissioner in succession to R. N.
Johnson, is an English solicitor who has
been sitting at a desk in the Crown Law
Office in Sydney for the past 17 years
instead of chasing costs on his own account.
The Harbor Trust has been the department
whose legal affairs he has 'specially looked
alter. For eight years Forrest was presi-
dent of the Tennis Association in the Ma
State, and for four years of the Australasian
body. In the rest of his spare time he
grows roses at Neutral Bay.
Passed out at Maitland* (N.S.W.), John
Pender, who planned most of the non-Gov-
ernmeut buildings in the northern half of
the Ma State. Born 84 years ago at Tober-
mory—the place Harry Lauder sings about
—-Pender landed in Melbourne in 1855, and
went to MaitlancT two years later, just in
time for the big flood of that year. The
rebuilding boom which the flood caused set
him up as architect and builder, and he stuck
to the game for 60 years.
John Earle, whom magician Hughes con-
verted from a Franklin apple-grower’s rep.
to a full-blown Senator in one night, origin-
ally used his judgment on the end of a pick
at the Bischoff mine
and between times
educated his mates
in Labor doctrines.
In return they sent
him to the State
Assembly as their
rep. in 1900, when
he became leader of
the State Labor
Party. John .headed
Tassy’s first. Labor
Government, which
reigned for seven
days in 1909. He
was again Labor
Premier from 1914
to 1916, but resigned
from the party after
the recent conscrip-
tion fight.
SENATOR' JOHN
EARLE.
The Speck’s prison-guests lost a hearty
battler the other day when Mrs. Helen Bird
died at the age of SI. She used to hold services
in the Hobart Gaol till the Sheriff put his
foot down; and at any time to get into
clink was a sure way to interest her. Her
husband, now the “father” of the Tasmanian
House of Dodery, and an ex- (very much
ex) Congregational parson, used to say
that he believed if he cou’d only get a sen-
tence she would devote a bit of attention to
him.
AUom-V , Rlackbm ' n > the law-clerk V.C of
Adelaide, has gone back to his old profession
His old firm, Fenn and Hardy, gives h?m a
partnership, and Burton Hardy, of the tm
takes his turr m camp.
TACTICS.
OFFICER (to applicant for job of motor-
transport driver) : “And now you meet on
the road a mob of horses, and these horses
are frightened at your motor —what do
you do?”
EX-CHAUFFEUR: “Stop the lorry!"
OFFICER: “Quite so; and having stopped the
lorry, the horses are still frantic with fear.
What do you do?”
EX-CHAUFFEUR: “Stop the engine!”
OFFICER : “Quite so. Then the horses being
still frantic, what do you do?”
EX-CHAUFFEUR: “Well, Mister, I’d get down-
off the lorry, take out the screw-
wrench, take the flamin’ lorry to pieces,
dig a hole in the road, bury the lorry, and
then sit down and—well wait.”
Fate played a grim jest on a Sydney scien-
tific man, L. M. Roberts, B.E„ son of
“Jack” Wliear Roberts, who many years ago
quitted journalism to chase millions in
mining. lie volunteered for active service
and went into camp, where he contracted a
serious illness. Unable then to pass the
medical test he was delegated to home ser-
vice, and joined the Patents Investigation
Board in a professional capacity. Having
thus escaped the dangers of active service he
trod on a nail at home; and tetanus finished
a young life of great promise.
Henry Johnson, who weighed anchor for
the last voyage at Sydney the other day,
was a more or less ancient mariner who had
spent most of his life in colliers. He came
to Australia in one of Huddart Parker’s first
steamers, and ran her between Melbourne
and Geelong; but on getting his master’s
ticket he went into the coal trade, first in
the Duckenfield for J. and A. Brown, and
later for the Wallarah Co. He brought out
several new steamers from the Cold Country
for the latter co., as the shiftless Australian
won’t build ships in his own country. Of
late, he had been master of the Beulah; in
the coal trade between Newcastle and Mel-
bourne.
In Adelaide, where barristers and solici-
tors mix it, even the leading men at the Bar
have numerous partners. Thus Glynn, Iv.C.,
and Angas Parsons, K.C., are members of a
firm, with George McEwin : and now J. M.
Napier also joins the combination. Glynn
is M.H.R. and a Federal Minister; Parsons
m president of two dozen societies and
things; McEwin is a City Councillor.
Napier is nothing much yet except brainy
and lecturer on Constitutional law at the
Uni. Paddy Glynn is the State’s best-known
and broguiest Irishman ; Parsons is Consul
for Japan; McEwin is chief of the Cal-
edonians. If Napier is willing to be known
merely as an Australian, Australia won’t
mind.
Old King Cole, of the Book Arcade —now
a very mellow old monarch with white hair
crowding out over his ears from under his
well-preserved silk hat—still keeps the
family brougham in commission. It is one of
the events of the day in Bourke-street when
the equipage trundles slowly up to the brassy
front of the Arcade and the King alights,
assisted across the banana-peel danger-zone
by a princess in glace silk and a sweet smile.
The enterprise looks a very serious one for
the ancient book-merchant, but it will be a
sad day for him when he is finally con-
demned to the old arm-chair and the back-
garden.
WE’RE ALL HELPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There has been a record entry of candidates for
the scholarships offered by the Melbourne University
Conservatorium of Music.
Now, some will grow two blades of grass where
one was grown before,
And some, by toiling double tides, may make it
three or four,
And others will accept the job, foreseeing duns and
drought,
Of speeding-up old Strawberry to help Australia out;
Yet who would fear the future, pray, with Emma all
day long
Pounding the grand piano for her country right or
wrong ?
The day of reckoning draws lfigh ? Good Arthur,
full of vim,
Is slaving in the city, with his work cut out for
him,
Producing full, round, splendid notes from some-
where near his boots.
Ilis dad is planting maize and oats and raising
various roots
To feed the pigs and cows that pay for plodding
Arthur’s keep,
While day by day his mellow tones grow yet more
rich and deep.
Against the long, lean years ahead the fiddler plies
his bow;
■His duty will be done, at least, however things may
so;
For well he knows his native land has need of men
like him ;
And so he toils and struggles, with a purpose great
and grim,
Bumping the bumps upon the way that leads to
Further Up
Where loud applause and half a guinea brim Ambi-
tion's cup.
Yes, some will grow two blades of grass where once
there was but one,
And some, at work from early morn until the day is
done,
Will help Australia’s flocks and herds to thrive and
multiply ;
And some will break new acres to be seeded by-and-
bye; >
And Emma —earnest little thing—will do her noble
bit
By sitting at the concert-grand and thumping hard
on it.
VICTORIA.
O. L.


ilife.
m I
as
a
,iis3
ft-1 "
HfcT&Jf £!
ti. ' %j< i < » « i'H <■ \^
.-•••
B*M
mm
a
ra
wwii
-
mm
s—■■?
sa i m
>, i ~ *
m
r
P#e
□
o
' !pr
A
/ i
n
m
X
'M? - "Tv
'sssL-t 1
~.- <*.? ftW
a;
7k- „. A'AC >
v«">
“Austral” Tailoring and the Autumn Show.
This, the first announcement of our showing of the new Fabrics for Autumn Wear, is timed appropriately, for most
men are just now giving thought to the events which synchronise with the coming vacation at Easter time.
At the Royal Show or Autumn Race Meetings, entertaining guests on a visit, or himself on holidays bent, the
man who places value on his self respect will dress to look his best on each and every occasion.
Short as the time is, yet there is time in which you may order an “Austral ” Sac Suit
to measure for completion before Easter Week. But early ordering is advised, and
we urge a visit here to view the fine display of all new goods without dela\.
“Austral” Sac Suits to Measure - : 75/-. 85A 95 -. 105/-. 126/-
Country Customers
send for patterns.
Gowing Bros. Ltd.
484-490 George Street, 3-17 Royal Arcade, New Brandi Shop at
304 George Street (near Hunter Street), Sydney.
Carriage paid
on all Country orders.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonn e
Gelatine D;namite
Geliermte
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON § STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead. Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
AH enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Added Nomi-
Gross to He- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
T £ £ £
Juno, 08.. 15,899 10 p.c. = 7,500 8,399 52,362
Dec., ’OB.. 14,008 10 „ „ 7,500 6,508 58,870
June, ’09.. 13,405 8 „ ~ 6,800 6,605 65,475
Dec., 09.. 13,869 8 ~ ~, 6,800 7,069 72,544
June, ’lO.. 15,488 8 „ „ 6,800 8,688 81,232
Dec., ’lO.. 16,749 9 „ ~ 7,650 9,099 90,331
June, 11.. 16,978 9 ~ „ 7,650 9.328 99,659
Dec., ’ll.. 12,968 9 „ ~ 7,650 5,318 104,977
June, ’12.. 17,900 9 „ ~ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares.. 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off .. .. 117,027
Dec., ’12.. 8,715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 118,899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 „ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13.. 21,164 8 „ ~ 8,160 13,004 143,850
June, ’14.. 16,966 7 „ ~ 7,140 9,826 153,676
Pref. Ord. Total.
Dec., ’14.. 17,409 6p.c. Bp.c. 8,463 8,946 162,622
Juno, ’15.. 29,371 6 „ 15 „ 16,079 13,292 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51,000 124,914
Dec., ’15.. 32,433 6p.c. lOp.c. 13,530 18,903 143,817
June, ’16.. 33,045 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 19,615 163,332
Dec., ’16.. 27,598 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 14,068 177,400
Profits, observe, are said to be gross. They
can, however, be cut up this way:—
Profit earmarked to cover depreciation .. £B,lOO
Ditto to cover insurance . . . . 5,928
Net profit 13,570
Total £27,598
The amount earmarked for depreciation
seems ample. There is no earthly reason
why the co. shouldn’t make it ample. The
directors presumably don’t want to pay more
than 10 p.c. (excessive dividends are un-
healthy nowadays), and there is little or
nothing to be gained by claiming profits in
excess of the amount required to pay the 10
p.c. On the other hand, there is something
to be lost. Perhaps a truer view of how the
co. is really doing can be got from this com-
parison :
Dec..,’lo. Dec.,’ls. June,’l6. Dec.,’l6.
Steamships and
other non-liquid
assets . . £241,508 £345,844 £345,933 £346,749
Liquid assets. . 51,605 132,418 168,101 159;211
Liabilities . . 24,732 39,415 45,671 33,529
Between December, TO,, and December, T 6,
the capital was increased by £110,000; but
£51,000 of that is capitalised profit, so only
£60,000 of new money has been got in. Add
£8797 increase of liabilities; total £68,797.
Meantime, assets have grown by £212,847.
So we can put it this way. Besides paying
the dividend and providing for all repairs to
the fleet, the co. has made £144,050 in six
years. Probably this is not all true profit in
excess of the dividend., Some of it may be
money which will have to be spent later on
in making renewals. But there must have
been extensive repairs, etc., during the past
six years ; and there is no visible reason why
the next six years should show poorer results
than the past six because of a much larger
bill for repairs and renewals. Certainly, the
directors say that “the increased cost of coal
of 3s. .per ton from January 1 this year and
higher wages to workers generally will seri-
ously affect future profits of our steamers.”
They add, however: “Unless compensatory
relief is obtained.” And in this trade, gov-
erned by an honorable understanding (or
worse), “compensatory relief” is very easily
obtained. What the easy and nasty settle-
ment of the coal strike is going to cost the
producers and manufacturers of this country
Heaven only knows. Already it has put up
the price__of gas; here it is going to put up
freights. * And evidently the freights are
going to be put up on the basis of 3s. per ton
dearer coal though the chances are that this
co.’s coal doesn’t cost anything like 3s. per
ton more.
* * * *
Tooiiey’s, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, ’O9. .£17,545 sp.c.= £lO,OOO £7,545 £21,178
Jan., ’lor. 19,911 5 „,, 10,000 9,911 31,089
July, TO.. 20,025 6 ~ ~ 12,000 8,025 39,114
Jan., ’ll.. 22,756 6 „„ 12,000 10,756 49,870
July, ’ll.. 20,398 6 ~ „ 12,000 8,398 58,268
Jan., T 2.. 26,867 7 „„ 14,000 12,867 71,135
July, T 2.. 24,086 . 7 „ ~ 14,000 10,086 81,221
Jan., T 3.. 27,750 7 „ ~ 14,000 13,750 94,971
July, ’l3. < 23,487 7 ~ „ 14,000 9,487 104,458
Jan., T 4.. 33,120 8 „„ 16,000 17,120 121,578
July, ’l4. . 27,360 8 „ „ 16,000 11,360 132,938
Jan., T 5. . 35,692 8 ~ ~ 16,000 19.692 152,630
July, ’l5. . 24,514 8 „ ~ 16,000 8,514 161,144
Jan., T 6. . 22,521 8 ~ „ 16,000 6,521 167,665
July, ’f6.. 21,203 8 „ „ 16,000 5,203 172,868
Jan., ’IT. . 17,885 8 „ „ 16,000 1,885 174,753
That doesn’t look healthy—£3s,692, £24,514,
£22,521, £21,203, £17,885. The steady
descent is enough to make any shareholder
nervous. Let’s see if we can find out what
is the matter. Is it falling-off of revenue,
and if so where, or is it increase of exes.?
Kun back on the co.’s tracks: —
Gross Rents Wages, Charges
Profits on and and Manage-
Brewings, etc. Interest, ment, exes.
Jan., 'll.. £56,107 £6,756 £36,107 -
Jan., ’15.. 97,961 8,852 66,121
July, '15.. 94,635 10,139 72,260
Jan., ’16.. 101,887 9,733 82,099
July, ’16.. 90,432 9,798 74,026
Jan., ’17.. 95,638 7,547 80,300
A remarkable growth of the gross profits
on brewings, etc., occurred between 1911
and 1915. In the four years prior to 1.911
there was a growth of £19,700 in the summer
season’s gross profit; in the four years after
1911 there was a growth, as the foregoing
comparison shows, of £41,800. This was
during the period of the McGowen-Holman
Government’s wild borrowing; for Jimmy
McGowen came into office, full of good in-
tentions, in 1910. This brewery co. has
thus got fat on the bogus prosperity caused
not by the mere borrowing of £41,000,000
in six years, but by the spending of it with-
out serious regard to the value got for the
money.
i Then came the war; and though the
Federal Government has since been borrow-
ing millions, the consequent boom has been,
curiously enough, of quite another sort. It
is the draper and the jeweller and the gew-
gaw . merchant who has been reaping the
harvest this time. A hundred thousand
women went to the liquor referendum poll
in N. S. Wales and compounded for sins
they were, inclined to by damning those they
had no mind to. There should be no liquor-
ing up in war time; so they voted for six
o'clock closing. And in the ensuing six
months tens of thousands of them spent more
on dress and frivols, including silk stock-
ings, than they had ever done before in any
six months of their lives. The wholesale
fluff merchants of Australia have probably
never done so well as they have ip the past 12
months; and there are little drapery stores
in mean suburbs which have made fortunes.
So we get a peculiar result in this liquor
trade. While very tittle of the proceeds of
the heavy war borrowing has gone to this
trade —no more than enough to counter-
balance the loss through the early closing
of pubs—the cos., have been hit by the higher
wage costs which have been the general
result of this borrowing boom. To realise
£97,961 of gross profit on brewings in the
first half-year of the war cost £66,121 in
wages and salaries and office charges: to
realise only £95,638 last half-year cost
£80,300. Hence the reduction of profits.
This paper doesn’t know what is going to
happen when the war ends. For a moment
there may be a joyous reaction and a little
fill-’em-up-again. But it isn’t likely that
there will be much of that. There will be
far too many wounds to heal, far too many
bills to pay. We don’t realise yet what we
have undertaken to do after the war, not
merely in paying interest and repaying bor-
rowed principal, but also in regard to
deferred nay and pensions. We may be a
devil; but we are going to feel a pretty sick
devil when it is all over, and there was
never a saint who was quite as saintly as
a devil who is sick. Certainly some relief
will come from lower costs. Labor, after
it has been in the wilderness for a few
months, will begin to recover the reason
which was taken from it by the dope with
which Labor Governments have wickedly
served it; and, though wages may keep
high, the service given in return will
correspond.
* * * *
The Squatting Investment Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
_ . Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves;
1904.. £22,329 5 p.c. = £14,600 £7729 £9,149
1905.. 19,605 5 „ „ 14,600 5005 14,154
1906.. 21,801 5 „ „ 14,600 7201 21,355
1907.. 19,561 5 „ „ 14,600 4961 26,316
Loss.
1908.. 8,816 4 1-6 „ 12,167 5,333
Profit.
1909.. 12,069 3J „ „ 9,733 2336- 7,669
1910. . 9,696 31 ~ ~ 9,733 7 632
1911. . 7,444 34 „,, 9,733 5*343
1912. . 10,461 34,,., 9,733 728 6!o71
1913.. 18,292 64 „ „ 19.466 4,897
1914.. 17,661 34 ~ ~ 9.733 7928 12,825
1915. . 14,569 64 ~ ~ 19,466 - 7,928
1916. . 1,839 3J „ „ 9,733 34
This co.’s properties, in the south-west back-
blocks of Queensland, wilted under a three
years’ drought which broke up in June last.
Thereafter until now there have been won-
derfully fat rains. Nature has simply been
having an orgy of breeding and reproduc-
tion ; and with the reproduction that was
good and meant money there has been breed-
ing that is bad and has meant loss. The
lambing just after the drought broke was
a dreadful failure; only 4932 were marked.
Then came the blowfly plague ; and between
that pest and starvation in the early months
of the year the co. lost 23,516 sheep. To
further cut down the co.’s profits the shear-
ing was delayed in an almost unprecedently
wet season, and delay in shearing means
expense. So the profit works out at only
£1839, notwithstanding that, owing to the
phenomenal prices for wool, the previous
yeaffs clip realised £7731 'more than had
been taken credit for in that year’s accounts.
Certainly next year’s accounts may disclose
that the past year’s wool brought some
thousands more than the money which it
is now estimated to be worth. As a matter
of fact, no single year’s accounts of this co.
are worth anything, because, while the ex-
penditure can be stated to a penny, the
revenue is always a guess. For the past
year, for instance, the clip sold up to
December 31 totalled £418; the remainder
was guessed to be worth £22,083: and on
that guess the profit is based. No more
unsuitable date than December 31 could be
picked for making up the accounts of this
co. The only thing to do is to take a
general survey of the figures.
And this may also help:—
1907. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities.. ..£44,075 £l,lBO £1,031 £1,114
Assets:—•
Live stock .. 79,602 56,122 43,740 34,833
Plant and stores 21,420 7,461 7,063 7,163
AVool . . .. 20,289 19,897 10,057 21,027
Cash, etc. .. 103 10,891 33,665 16,635
In nine years, therefore, liabilities have
been reduced by £42,961, while the co. has
about £16,500 more in cash and liquid assets.
On the other hand, live stock has been re-
duced by more than one-half. But for
practical purposes that can be almost dis-
regarded, because, given average conditions,
the stock can bring itself up to- the old
figures in about two years—a wonderful per-
formance, hardly possible in any other in-
dustry in the world. Ilowetmr, the co. has
something to think about besides the fecun-
dity of Mary’s little lamb. The co.’s holding
is on lease, and the lease runs out in about
18 years. Anything may happen then.
Towards the return of capital the co. hasn’t
very much saved up, as the last comparison
shows ; indeed, whenever the co. pays more
than p.c. in a year the directors ask the
shareholders to consider the excess as some-
thing paid off capital. There are 97,335
shares paid to 60s. and worth somewhere
about 275. 3d. in the market.
* * * *
The. Cascade Breavery Co. (Hobart,
Tas.) :
, To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dee., 1908.. £3298 6 p.c. = £3402 £10,815
June, 1909.. 3823 6 „ „ 3402 421 11,236
Dec., 1909.. 3092 6 „ „ 3442 10,886
June, 1910.. 4871 6 ~ ~ 3442 1429 12,315
Dec., 1910.. 7135 6 ~ ~ 3402 3733 16,048
June, 1911 . . 3190 6 ~ ~ 3402 15,836
Dee., 1911 .. 4064 6 „ ~ 3402 662 16,498
June, 1912 . . 3444 6 ~ ~ 3402 42 16,540
Dec., 1912 . . 3602 6 ~ ~ 3402 200 16,740
June, 1913.. 4180 6 „ „ 3402 778 17,618
Dec., 1913.. 4665 6 „ „ 3402 1263 18,781
June, 1914 . . 7018 6 ~ „ 3402 3616 22,397
Dec., 1914 . . 6362 6 ~ „ 3402 2960 25,357
June, 1915.. 4778 6 ~ „ 3402 1376 26.733
Dec., 1915.. 5807 6 ~ ~ 3402 2405 29,138
June, 1916.. 4816 6 „ „ 3402 1414 30,552
Dec., 1916 .. 4870 6 „ „ 3402 1468 32,020
Besides its home trade the Cascade has a
very fair business with the mainland. Now,
Tasmania, S. Australia and N. S. Wales are
the States which have led in six o’clock clos-
ing ; and the directors of this co. throw dis-
credit on the yarn that that “reform” hasn’t
affected the trade in those States. “Queens-
land, Victoria and Westralia,” they say,
“have shown increases; while in N. S.'Wales
and S. Australia sales have declined.” As
for the future, there seems to be very little
reason to expect that where they diave been
closed the pub doors will again 'be opened
after six o’clock—at any rate, if the matter
is decided by referendum. And the story that
early-closing does not affect the total con-
sumption of liquor is obviously incredible,
though the consumption of wines and spirits
may be affected more than of beer. The out-
look for any brewing co. is, therefore, not
brilliant. And it is most uncertain.
The co. is heavily loaded with property—a
good deal of it non-revenue producing—and
it is carrying a swag of debt in consequence.
But matters are improving:—
Liabilities.
Dec., ’ll. Dec., ’l5. June, ’l6. Dec., ’l6.
Mortgages and
deposits ..£90,402 £77,177 £76,720 £73,270
Overdrafts, etc. 25,100 14,964 11,070 10,174
Assets.
Hotels, proper-
ties, etc. .. 178,576 182,791 182,202 175,408
Stock and plant 34,725 32,492 33,137 35,402
Book debts, etc. 30,706 18,784 15,898 16,554
Cash and liquid
assets .. 48 12 53 1,121
So in five years liabilities have been reduced
by £32,058. True, accumulated profits
haven’t been responsible for all that. Cus-
tomers’ balances, advances and the like have
been reduced by £14,152, releasing that
amount for the reduction of debt. But that
movement has been good, too ; for some of
those old accounts looked very doubtful.
Altogether, then, the co. has been doing some-
thing solidly better than the 6 p.c. it has
been paying ; and there may be fairly sub-
stantial profits to come in the distant future
out of the sale of some of its big Cascade
estate.
* * * *
Pearson Law, Ltd. (Melbourne), manu-
facturers of shirts, collars and other men’s
wear, was registered at the end of Septem-'
ber, 1911, but no accounts are available for
the first nine mpnths. The co. paid £7400
for goodwill (apparently in shares), and
prehmmary exes, account for the rest of the
deficit with which this table starts:—
<—■ —Dividends. A
Pref. WHttpn
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. Off. Deficit.
Dec" ~ £945 Nil ~ £7524
1912.. £1325 706 Nil £194 70Q9
1913.. 4494 1486 Nil 473 4564
7874 1487 7 p.c. = £991
1915.. 6248 1487 10 ~ ~ 1416 918 269 -:>
1916.. 8269 1783 10 ” ” 1699 961 6518
Transferred to capital, £5664 .. 854
This co. arrived just in time; for though the
mercery trade has fallen off since 800,000
of the mercer’s best Australian customers
got into khaki, the Australian manufacturer
and especially the Australian manufac-
turer with a name already known —is doing
a proportion of the total business so large
that he would have believed it impossible
five years ago. One result is that the capital
of £35,400_ with which the co. started soon
became quite inadequate. The pressure was
eased for a while by hanging on to the
profits. At the end of the third year, though
the co. had made about £14,000, only £991
had been cut up among the ordinary share-
holders and £3OOO among the prefs. Since
then, though a conservative policy has been
pursued with regard to dividends, the need
for more capital has grown, and during the
past year 8496 pref. £1 shares were issued.
At the same time £5664 of the undivided
profit was transferred to capital, the ordi-
naries getting 11,328 shares paid to 10s. —a
not unreasonable thing, seeing that they
were content to do without dividends in the
earlier years when the co. was making
profits, but wanted money for business-
extension purposes. Of course the only
new money brought into the business is that
from the 8496 pref. shares; and that has
left the co. still owing £22,346, mostly to
the bank. Stock, of which the co. held a
modest £14,053 as at December, 1912, now
runs into £36,603; and, owing mainly no
doubt to the greatly increased turnover, the
book debts have pushed along from £8952
to £18,022. There should be plenty more
room yet for the legitimate expansion
ot: those figures. And good hopes, too. We
want something more than a Customs tariff
to put Australian industries where they
should be, and that is a stronger Australian
feeling; and that stronger Australian feel-
ing is being produced in France and England
and Egypt to-day. Those boys of ours are
coming back better Australians for having
been out of Australia; and that is going to
count for something in the future of Aus-
tralian industries.
# # # *
South Australian Fruitgrowers’ Co-
operative Society, Ltd. (Adelaide), which
began with a deficit of £592, represented by
preliminary exes.:—
Bonus De-
Profit. Dividends, on trade, ficit.
Dec., 1911.. £592
June, 1912.. £l3O 5 p.c. = £lO5 567
Loss.
Nov., 1912.. 195 5 „ „ 183 945
Profits.
May, 1913.. 622 5 „ „ 234 567
Nov., 1913.. 626 5 „ „ 286 £92 309
May, 1914.. 7 5 „ „ 318 620
Nov., 1914.. 872 5 „ „ 333 165 246
Reserves.
May, 1915.. 1584 74 „ „ 501 374 463
Nov., 1915.. 1685 74 ~ „ 532 269 1347
May, 1916.. 1082 74 „ „ 592 669 1168
Nov,, 1916.. 993 74 „ „ 702 492 967
The share capital is now £21,264, divided
among no less than 1008 members. _ As usual
with S. Australian co-operative concerns
they don’t have “shareholders,” and “divi-
dends” are more or less wicked things. They
have “members” and “interest” —as a rule,
though sometimes the practical directors for-
get and call the thing by its proper name.
Anyhow, there is a big scope for the co. S.
Aus. has both growers and consumers, and
they are alike interested in coming into
direct contact. The parasite is the man Aus-
tralia must cut. out; lie is the enemy the
Labor party should have attacked—and
didn’t, in N. S. Wales particularly* This co.
consists of growers and retailers, who find
that their interests are surprisingly alike.
Its business is not to sell raw fruit to the
public (that part of the business had already
been fairly well catered for), but to'handle
the surplus and turn it into jams, etc.
Naturally a concern which gave the grower
and the retailer both the manufacturer’s and
the wholesale merchants’ profits has not been
allowed to get a move on without a fight;
but it seems to be pretty safely set up now,
and many of the co-operators are not only
sensible enough, but also public-spirited
enough, to leave their “interest” in the busi-
ness. It wants all the capital it is likely
to be able to get; for even going along in its
present fashion, which so far isn’t much
better than a baby-crawl, it is £7451 in debt.
Not that that is anything to worry about,
seeing that the co. holds £14,464 of stock and
over £6OOO of good book debts and liquid
assets.
“Coot” : Since the war began the French
Government has adopted the use of postal
cheques in connection with the savings banks.
Any depositor with 50 francs (£2) to his
credit can now draw a cheque. There is far
more reason for such a system in this land
of big distances than there is in France.
When shall we have it?
* * * *
Figures produced lately by the Common-
wealth Statistician show that the number
of depositors in the Commomvealth Savings


WRITE for BOOKLET
setting out the advantages ,o be
obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
as
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
of
YOUR WILL.
Trust Funds now under the.
Company’s control exceed
£12,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
THE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
-1 fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
Turns all sewage into gas, which can be used for
power or for electric lighting. Destroys all noxious
odors. Gives perfectly clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
•'Born to
Insure in
n* 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
..istfa*
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital . 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Australian General Electric Co., corner
Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney;
corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne,
place their services at the disposal of all those
requiring information which will enable them to
readily select the most advantageous material used
in the construction of overhead-trolley systems, and
track return, for electric haulage in mining plants.
We here mention a few of the devices in which the
above company specialise: Rail bonds, trolley-wire
supports, suspensions, clamping ears, mechanical
splicing sleeves, strain insulators, turnbuckles,
trolley frogs, drills, etc. All of this apparatus has
been especially designed and manufactured to meet
every possible condition of mining service. Write for
particulars. — Advt.
* * * *
“The Roofing of many uses” is a name aptly
suited to Adamax Roofino. The 2- or 3-ply roofing
makes an excellent floor covering for offices or veran-
dahs—also for bathrooms instead of lead. Being
a non-conductor of cold or damp it has been used
to advantage in huts as flooring after the earth has
been well rolled, it resists the ravages of sulphuric
acid, gases, chemical fumes, etc., and is therefore an
excellent roofing or flooring for mine buildings and
an ideal flooring for accumulator rooms of Electric
Installations. Full particulars in a free booklet —■
“The Adamax Series.” Send to-day for copy to
William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Perth, Adelaide. — Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. — Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the ideal pressure pipe,
is cheap to buy and to lay, and lasts indefinitely,
with practically no cost for unkeep. Catalogue free
upon application. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.
Ltd. (head office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Fac-
tories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Victoria; and
Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt. #
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and I-lassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt. # #
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur -Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane — Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne,, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment Is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Gulwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Bank, the deposits in the aggregate and the
average sum deposited have moved this way:
Depositors. Deposits. Average.
June, 1914 .. 143,143 £4,645,268 £32 9 0
June, 1915 . . 210,361 7,420,647 35 5 0
June. 1916 . . 275.536 9,477,896 34 0 0
Sept., 1916 . . 299,329 10,017,701 33 9 0
The public has heard these figures pro-
nounced to be evidence of “the thrift of the
people.” They may be, but before they are
accepted as that it would be a good thing
to know what part the pay of soldiers has
played in the arithmetic and to see a dissec-
tion of the accounts. The evidence of sav-
ings banks generally is that the greater part
of the growth in figures is due to savings by
the proprietors of substantial credits. A few
people seem to save a lot; a lot of people
save very little. For instance, in N. S.
Wales in eight years the number of deposi-
tors with accounts under £lOO has doubled
and the amount to credit risen from
£3,424,000 to £7,971,000. But the number
of depositors with £3OO accounts and up-
wards, though only one-thirtieth as numer-
ous as the other lot, increased nearly three
times in number, and their credits moved
from £4,000,000 to nearly £11,000.000.
Approximately 50 per cent, of the total
deposits come from 3 per cent, of the deposi-
tors. That the Statistician’s figures apply
to the general savings made by the mass of
the Australian people during the last couple
of years is wildly unbelievable.
Sydney used to own most of the Broken
Hill South and Central. The cos. were
formed in the Ma State capital, and their
offices were there. It did no good with them
at all ; and there was a time when the South
was almost abandoned. It actually was
closed down. The Central did a bit better
for a time ; then the co. was glad to sell out
to a metal process co. which wanted a re-
serve of ore to operate on. The North, always
owned' in Melbourne, was given best by the
old co., and sold for a few hundreds. In the
past seven years these three cos. have paid
dividends as follows :
Central. South. North.
1910. . £144,376 £BO,OOO £63,000
1911.. 144,375 150,000 113,760
1912.. 288,760 290,000 313,760
1913.. 192,500 300,000 180,000
1914.. 96,250 140,000 150,000
1915.. 192,500 120,000 150,000
1916.. 315,000 240,000 240,000
£1,373,750 £1,320,000 £1,210,500
Total them up :
Central (Sulphide Corp.) .. ..£1,373,750
South .. .. .. .. . . 1,320,000
North . . .. .. .. . ■ 1,210,500
Total £3,904,250
In addition, the three mines, which were
all staggering on the verge of collapse just
prior to the successful treatment of sulphide
ore, have spent approximately £550, on
plant and other improvements within the
last seven-year period. It ought to make
Australian metallurgists feel a bit more
satisfied with themselves when they remem-
ber that the solution of that problem as
well as of the later problem of
handling the -zinc “tailings,” was carried out
in Australia. Among others a German pro-
fessor of great tonnage was imported to solve
it. He described 25 ways of getting out the
metals, but saw no profit in any of them. If
The Bulletin were asked to name one man
who, more than any other, contributed to the
success of the first problem, it would say T.
.1. -Greenway. In a way, certainly, he was
driven to it. His mines, the South and
Block 14, simply had to tackle the sulphides,
because they had nothing else. But, at any
rate, he was the first man to handle sul-
phides and make a profit out of them.
Thank Heaven, they don’t insult men who do
things like that by making them C.M.G.’s!
* * * *
From Ardlethan: —
The high price of tin is causing a litle more
interest in the Ardlethan field. Kirk and party
have taken options over the principal alluvial
claims, and are testing with a view to hydraulic
sluicing. The Wild Cherry, now known as the
New Venture, is on a dyke formation with
pines of fair milling values. The Carpathia lately
came on a new lens of good ore, and prospects there
are comparatively cheerful.
* < * *
There is a new wolfram show 28 miles
west of Yolgogrin (N.S.W.) ; 43cwt. of con-
centrates, assaying 6G p.c. tungstic acid,
were obtained from eight tons of ore. That’s
a remarkable yield : compare it with Block
14 Torrington’s 546 tons crushed for 24cwt.
of concentrates. The Torrington Co. has
developed many thousands of tons of ore_ of
a grade that requires from 400 tons to 500
tons of exceptionally hard rock to be mined
and treated to produce one ton of concen-
trate, and 1500 tons of this rock have actu-
ally been crushed and treated as an experi-
ment. Manager Nicholas says the district is
capable of turning out 250 tons of wolfram
concentrates a year, but it would involve a
huge battery equipment. And the require-
ments of munition-makers seem to have been
much exaggerated. No doubt that is why
the price offered for concentrates in Aus-
tralia is very moderate.
H. W. Gepp, now general manager of the
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia and in
charge of the Risdon (Tas.) works, with a
squad of U.S.A. experts to help linn swears
that, if the German submarines will let ms
machinery come along, the first unit or tlie
commercial plant will be at work and turn-
ing out 10 tons of pure zinc a day by August
1. The walls of the electric-cells building
have started to grow, the excavation of a site
for the leaching and purifying plant is nearly
finished, and a hustle is to be put into the
building of the wharf and haulage line and
other odds and ends. The glass cell plant is
already turning out zinc from Broken tlili
ores, and while the 10-ton unit is being fixed
up a plant to produce 2501 b. of zinc a day
(the same size as the experimental plant
with which the Anaconda process was tried
on Broken Hill ores in the U.S.A.) is to be
used for testing purposes. As it is exactly a
year since IV. L. Baillieu first ran his e
over the Ilisdon site to see if there was any
chance of its suiting, the co. hasn’t lost much
time. The latest instance of the kindly in-
terest the Hobart people take in the enter-
prise was when the Hobart Marine Board
proposed to clap on a charge of Gd. per ton
on all ore landed. The co. claims that as it
it building its own wharves without asking
the Board for a penny, and as the Hobart
people will get port dues on the ships, any-
way, this charge is'too steep altogether. It is
likely that there will be a compromise, but
ns the war has knocked down the total ship-
ping entering and clearing from the port of
Hobart by about 7U0,000 tons, the Marine
Board wants something new from some-
where.
* * * *
Tassy’s hydro-electric schemes are hung
up owing to the English Government refus-
ing permission to export machinery. An in-
quiry from the IJ.S.A. found the makers
opening their mouths too wide. The short-
age of gear is so serious that the Ilobait
Gas Co.’s old steam plant will have to be put
into commission in Hobart this winter.
* * * »
A send-off to a big performer: —
The scythe has brought down Alfred Tolhurst.
The lure of the Broken Hill boom took “Tolly” out
of a bank clerk’s job in Maoriland in 1888, and
with Bill Quick to guide him he dashed into specu-
lative life in Melbourne. Two such dandies as Quick
and “Tolly” soon got into the swim with the
Tooraketty crowd. Constitutionally the partners
were as wide apart as the Poles, for Tolhurst was
as dashing as Quick was sober-minded. So it was
ordered that Fred Keats should link up with Tolhurst
vice Quick. The new man had fine fellows like
William Jamieson, W. It. Wilson and other leadeis
of “the Queen-street crowd,” as close chums. So coins
flowed into the offlce-pot in a steady current and
were spent as freely. Tolhurst did not distinguish
himself specially over the early W.A. floats, but
Keats and he were the '(**>• promoting brokers through
the whole of the North Queensland copper boom,
starting with Chillagoe and Mt. Garnet and ending
with Leichhardt. After William Knox had got the
Baillieus into Hampdens, Keats and Tolhurst worked
with that brotherhood. A profitable combination it
was. “Tolly” reckoned that he missed his biggest
chance by selling the Duchess held by Keats and
himself to the Hampden; but he could have raked
in a bigger pile if he had clung on to what he made
out of the Mt. Elliott float: The most disastrous of his
big promotions were Chillagoe and Mt. Garnet. His
last streak of luck was -to listen to Fred Tricks when
the original Edna May syndicate was being formed
to send Hartrick to measure up the claim. That
little investment meant that Tolhurst was all there
when most of the early Westonia melon-cutting went
on. When “Tolly’s” luck was booming his chest
couldn’t be measured. The boys had to walk round
him. But they did so with a kindly eye because
they knew the good nature behind it all.
* * * *
Great Boulder’s latest estimate of <ore:re-
serves__439,677 tons containing 322,83d0z.
p ne —i s 54,887 tons and 32,4040 z. less than
last year’s figures. Below 2300 ft., where the
main shoot passed into the Golden Horse-
shoe, there is next to nothing of value. At
most, the mine can have only a few more
years to live. Its present appearance at
depth is enough to bring tears to the eyes
of those who knew it in days gone by.
Melbourne has put some money into the
recently-resurrected Childe Harold, near
Laverton (W.A.), and is already figuring on
early dividends. Years ago a man had a look
at this show in company with -the late
George Hall. On Hall’s assurance that
there was a lot of gold in the stone that
could not be seen with the spy-glass he
bought some shares. He has them yet.
From Westonia: —
Edna May Consolidated has opened up an excel-
lent body of ore at the 210 ft. level. The reef is
over 20ft. wide, and the value about loz.; but so
far it has not been driven on to any extent. There
is another reef at 105 ft., with a width of seven feet
and worth 14dwt. per ton, which has been exposed for
a length of 70ft. The outlook for the mine is
better than it has ever been before. However,
finances are low, and a treatment plant is badly
needed.
Edna May Deeps have jumped from ss. to Bs. 3d.
without any material alteration in the mine. As
the bears have a call of ss. per share to help them
along in the future, the chances are the honors will
be with them. There can be only one end to Deeps:
acquisition by Edna May Co.
Edna May’s No. 5 level is opening up in such a
way that it is pretty certain the bears will get
pinched before the end of the year.
Word-painting cannot hide the fact that
Marv Mac, Laverton (W.A.), has done
badly. If 40,000 tons crushed had averaged
355., with slimes included, instead of 255.,
A. 0. Sachse wouldn't be out after more
capital, and there wouldn’t have been any
necessity to stop a crosscut when- it was
only 40ft. from the lode. To say that “mul-
lock intrusions” are a common occurrence
in big lodes is a bit risky; but Sac-hse is
daring. Otherwise, how could he say that
the fact of the bottom crosscut being in
country carrying 15s. of gold “proves it to
be almost a certainty that good payable
values will be met on intersecting the^lode”?
“Broker” : It is not only what Westralia
thinks about Nullagines, but what Bill Rob-
inson will chirrup from his exalted perch in
London when he hears of the show’s latest
troubles. It isn’t widely known that Dick
Hamilton looked in at Nullagine and nodded
approval. But it was Colin Fraser’s report
that started the show, lie gave Grant’s Flat
348,500 cub. yards of an average of 3s. 2d.
gold, or a total value of £55,179 (proven),
and estimated two other paddocks to contain
250,000 cub. yards carrying £30,000 of gold.
Costs on a dredging duty of 0500 cub. yards
weekly were to be 13d. per cub. yard, and
the total working profit was set down at
£52,761. There certainly is room for careful
inquiry as to why there has been so much
difference between estimates and results in a
proposition where estimates ought to be
nearer the mark than in any other class of
mining venture.
* * * *
Edna Consolidated shines brightest in the
Westonia firmament at present, but the pre-
sence of greenstone off the 200 ft. crosscut
may foretell an -eclipse. What cannot be
ignored is the flat angle at which that slab of
country rock underlies through the claim
from south to north. This means a big push
of the reef towards the Central boundary ; so
if anyone is to profit by the shoot now being
opened up, it looks as though it must be
manager Giblin’s claim. Perth _ and Ival-
goorlie are raspy over the jump in Consoli-
dateds, but the market is so over-sold and
there are such chances in the show that the'
way is open for a squeeze should some news
of the old Barrambie type. shuffle into
Peacock’s office. #
From the chairman’s speech at the Mt.
Elliott meeting in London :
The proposed basis of operations is the treatment
of 500 tons of ore a day of an assay value of 5 per
cent./ to 6 per cent., producing- roughly, therefore,
about 700 tons of copper a month. Working under
present conditions, when the costs are abnormally
high, it is calculated that the cost of mining,
raising, railing to the smelter and smelting the ore,
and also the cost of shipping the blister copper and
all refining charges, will total about £6O per ton
of copper. It would, therefore, appear that when
in full swing our gross profits should be about
£35,000 a month. 1 say gross profits, because
allowance has also to be made for administration
charges, taxes and depreciation. On that basis we
have a long spell of profitable operations ahead of
us. Just how long depends on the mines themselves
and on the railway extensions we get.
And, please, on the maintenance of prices.
That is the most important x in the problem.
Gympie—a very different Gympie from
what it used to be —produced 30590 z. last
month from 8182 tons of stone. The Scot-
tish Gympie crushed 7900 tons for 22960 z.;
so the others got only 7630 z. between them.
The best returns came from No. 1 North
Columbia, which cleaned up GOOoz. from 74
tons (over Boz. per ton) and declared a
dividend of 68. Previous to that No. 1 had
splashed up a fourpenny from its patch.
Two of Gympie’s best old-time mines, the
No. 2 South Great Eastern and the South
Glanmire and Monkland, are liquidating.
There is plenty of machinery and plant, so
there should be a consolation trifle.
* * * *
Maoriland’s old mine, the Waihi, produced
bullion worth £327,506 last year from
194,223 tons of ore. The latest four-weekly
return is £30,606 from 17,315 tons. This
is good enough, so Waihi is handing out its
quarterly Is. The Grand Junction is
crushing 400 tons in 24 hours and its
extraction is 345. per ton; but the shares
droop because the capital is large and ore
reserves rather slight. It is much the same
with the Waihi. Despite the fact that the
returns are so regular the mines are very
patchy and patchy reserves are very difficult
to value.
Recent rains have set Round Hill (Tas.)
working the mill full time. The co. is ship-
ping a few tons of hand-picked ore from
No. 1 tunnel. An assay gave lead 35.5 p.c.;
silver 2160 z.; gold 14dwt. So _the parcel
should realise somewhere about £5O a ton.
A Hobart crowd, called the Daylight Syn-
dicate, have been for the last two or three
months prospecting a reef close to Mathinna,
about four miles from Fingal (Tas.). They
have sunk 50ft. on stone 2ft. at its narrow-
est. Ten tons sent to Bendigo returned 21oz.
7dwt. of free gold, with 3cwt. of concen-
trates. By cyaniding, the tailings yielded
another sdwt. A further sample of 20 tons
is being sent to the Golden Gate battery.
Cap’n Miles’s Deebook No. 2 dredge, work-
ing at Itenong, Malaya, cut up 330,476 cub.
yards in the last six months. As the ground
went 0.9131 b. of tin per cub. yard, the co.
earned £13,515. Half-pound ground is now
taking the gilt off the gingerbread, but later
Miles, junior, who runs the plant, will be
wallowing in 15oz. ground. Then things are
to hum in royal style! No. 1 dredge is out
of commission: it came to grief some time
ago. Young Miles has been putting in his
spare time retrieving it.
Kampong Kamunting recovered 8 ._6Bd.
(.811b.) per yard in December, which isn’t
wbat was expected; and the next month or
two were going to be poorer, by the look of
things. Costs, fortunately, keep down to
about so there was a working profit
of £4839 (G.lld. per yard) for the month.
The little Mount Lindsay tin show (Tas.)
is cheerful about prospects. The manager
took charge last October, and _ since then
driving on the lode has given 251 tons ore,
which returned seven tons concentrates
assaying 70 p.c. tin. The drive is below
old tribute workings and has luckily run
into a rich shoot on the footwall and at the
bottom of the drive. On the strength of
this good make the manager is sending in
another drive nearly at the battery level.
The directors have a little milling plant,
purchased from the tributors.
* * * *
Chairman Fairthorne has been almost a
lifetime on the Board of Mt. Bischoff, and
his cheerful remarks about tackling the lodes
that possibly exist in the big area held by
the co. were quite in the old pioneer spirit.
For the latter half of 1916 tin averaged
£175 Os. 5d., Or £l2 10s. less than during
the previous term, and as the output was
233 tons of concentrates, containing approxi-
mately 140 tons of tin, the lower price made
a difference of £1750, or nearly 3s. per share.
At present tin is worth over £2OO per ton.
Bischoff has been unable to secure carpen-
ters to finish its new 20-head battery
quickly, but the delay will not be for long.
The building of this fine plant, with all the
latest improvements for handling slimes,
shows that Bischoff isn’t short of faith in
its mountain.
* * * *
North Mount Farrell (Tas.) is installing
a 375-li.p. suction gas engine, with which it
expects to save about £2OOO a year in fuel.
The inine is looking well, and the late rains
have replenished the water supply.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 3-iJ


Charles
hEI DSIECKS
Vintage 1906
T
Ohm
HE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Kosie
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2•/. posted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song'—V/W
Meditation - - Morel-
ia Resolve - - Kotlar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation » - Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN S. 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1900.
FESQ CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March 12, 1917.
My Dear Arini. —
The’last word about the Stricklands is
that they will face the sea-pirates together,
and make for England in April. His Ex.
got the final courtesy of leave of absence;
hut he doesn’t return. They talk of set-
tling—for a time, anyhow—at Sizergk, the
ancient home in Westmoreland. It is
alleged to be haunted by a more reliable old
ghost than any other baronial roof in the
North Countree. Whether it is anything
like William Holman I don’t know. In his
dreams his Ex. is pretty sure to see it in
that shape.
The tips about a sub-regal successor no
longer include the Galways; they’re not
even starters. Cullen, C.J., will carry on
until an infusion of fresh blood comes from
the other side. State Governors can be
picked up fairly easily just now, I’m told.
Men with estates in England are looking for
something to relieve the strain of the heavy
taxation. But there is another side to that.
We have our war taxation, too; wherefore
the new man will, when he arrives, be made
to understand that he is a luxury we really
can’t afford.
That bright and capable girl, Miss Mary
Strickland, had to go into Lewisham
Hospital for a few days. The finger that
gave some trouble about three months ago
had to come off. Eldest daughter’s goldi-
locks have spun a web around Australian
hearts, and her little ailment brings a ton
of sympathy.
Sydney welcomed home more bandaged
Kangaroos on Sunday morning. It was a
best blue-and-gold day, with a brisk wind
tossing the white caps on tlfe Harbor. The
Anzac buffet was the rendezvous. With
.Miss Evans in charge, the Y.A.D.’s
greeted the female friend or relative of any
returned soldier as cordially as the rush per-
mitted. No longer does the fierce intimation,
“Ladies not admitted,” frown over the turn-
stile entrance. Queenslanders went on to
Bose Hall, the big brown house on Darling.-
hurst Heights, where matron Fox keeps the
V.A.D.’s on the move. Mrs. Chris Bennett,
the N. S. Wales mother of the voluntaries,
was amongst the visitors, with Commandant
Lee and his wife to extend the glad hand to
Bananaland men. Bose Hall generally gets
hold, of a good band for these Sunday
reunions. As the cars rolled up the red-gravel
path a Fire Brigade band let the boys
have “Home, Sweet Home,” to step out to.
Downstairs, in the innards of the establish-
ment, the V.A.D.’s jingled the crockery and
staggered out to the lawn, where the big fig-
trees shed their slippery fruit, to fill the
Kangaroo with good things.
The recent sale of the Esquimau puppies
which came back on the Aurora reminds
one of the woolly canines on Stewart Island
nine or 10 years ago. I fancy they had been
snapped up as a spec, from the Southern
(Toss. expedition. By selling the puppies at
£5. apiece, the simple settler thought he was
going to make something for the tin savings
bank on the kitchen mantelpiece. But he
forgot the habits of the Arctic dog, first
cousin to the wolf, in idle captivity. Half
Moon Bay echoed with the howls of these
wild beasts o’ moonlight nights. By day.
wherever two or three were gathered
together, they fought'to the last gasp, while
the non-belligerents sat on their haunches to
see the final round. No —you can buy Arctic
dogs, but you can’t teach them even back-
yard habits.
Antill of Jarvisfield, now Brigadier-Gen-
eral, writes from London :
Had to give in for a little, while, influenza and
bronchitis, but feel Al, and after a fortnight at
Bournemouth hope to be back in my place in the
mud again.
The tall Picton soldier had to collect a
C.M.G. before leaving London for the other
side of the Channel.
. Mrs. George Sly, wife of the Judge, is
.amongst the homing pigeons, after about
three years’ absence. Two nice-looking
daughters come with mamma from the other
side.
Chief Justice Cullen took the chair at a
meeting convened to form a committee to
work up a Shackleton lecture in aid of the
widow of Captain Mclntosh, of the recent
expedition. But argue as you may as to
the advantages that man will reap, some
time or other, from the struggles of explorers
among the ice mountains, Sydney remains
lukewarm. So the cane chairs predomi-
nated on Friday, and the company consisted
chiefly of the conveners. General Finn, on
the platform, had at his elbow the lathy
figure of Captain Davis, of the Aurora. This
intrepid sailor is as shy as a bandicoot. But
he jerked out a manly tribute to the grit
and endurance of the late Captain Mclntosh
in a deep sea voice that seemed to resound
with the noise of many waters.
Charles Waldron, the tall actor who
married pretty Miss King, of this hamlet,
arrived with wife and youngsters in patriar-
chal style. A mountain of baggage followed
the family out to Auntie Brunton's. The big
house that stands on the rim of Double Bay
will house the party.
I tried 2s. 2d. worth of Gonsalez opera-
singers at the second of their Town Hall
concerts. The 2d. was the amusement tax.’
which is, of course, the public’s funeral.
Side-lines in this back area-of our muni-
cipal barn are the infant-in-arms, who yells
at inopportunte moments, generally when
the favorite tenor is letting it go on a top
C, and the scrunch of paper bags. Peanuts
and boiled lollies are occasionally inter-
changed between the shilling and two-bob
seats. Very nearly all the applause comes
from these plebeian parts. Cappelli, Balboni
and Miss Gonsalez are the favorites. Miss
liuss still hangs on to her tremolo. Garbed
in duck-egg blue, she wore a rosette rather
smaller than a soup-plate over one ear.
Soprano de Revers —she who can an she
will shake the welkin —appeared with her
head apparently tied up in shells and sea-
weed. I say apparently. It looked mer-
maidy from the 2s. 2d. area. Cacialli was,
as ever, a topnotcher. __ But the average
Italian opera-singer doesn’t do more than
his third best in swallow-tails, supported by
a bleak background of empty platform seats.
Lieut. Fred Busby, only son of a Wool-
lahra Point family, has died in France. Hi's
mother, Mrs. Busby, was Augusta Merewether
in her single days. An aunt of the young
lieutenant is Mrs. John Donkin, of Lake
Cowal, Wyalong; her son is also in khaki.
Another of the clan, Darcy Donkin, lucky
owner of Meteor Downs station in Queens-
land, started olf recently for active service
in the aircraft line. He was an expert at
polo and most other expensive sports.
Thomas Graythwaite Dibbs and his help-
mate shook the glad hand of many a rela-
tive and long-time friend at Point Piper on
Sunday. There was plenty of iced food and
much congratulation because of the diamond
jubilee of the fine old couple’s wedding-day.
Lights will twinkle in the gardens of Dun-
vegan, Mosman, on. the 24th, when the
Mae!cod girls will make a special effort to
help the 17th Battalion Comforts Fund.
And on the 27th Mrs. D. Sheridan will give
a party at the sth Brigade Artillery depot
in Carringto'n-street in aid of that little lot’s
fund.
I fere is the .backbone of the Red Cross sauce
department—Mrs. Joscelyne. She learned the
art of making everything, except the weather
and the mutton, in a bush home years ago.
When the boys in Egypt or France sing a
song of thanksgiving for any of the 54 tons
of condiments that come their way from
Ash-street, they incidentally praise the ver-
satile Australian woman. Amongst Her
other activities Mrs. Joscelyne organised
the North Sydney
chemists’ wives. In
consequence, the
soldiers’ dependants
up that way get
their drugs free,
and their North
Sydney centre is
amazingly popular
with the little
things that Tommy
left behind him.
With a brief pull-
off recently for ill-
health, this slender
bundle of energy
has worked all day
and every say as
lion, chef of the
Ash-street pickle
premises. Military
hospitals here get their share of -the output.
The rest goes to garnish bully beef at the
Front.
Mentioned in dispatches for valuable ser-
vices, Sister J. Baxter, a daughter of the
Baxters of Glebe Point. She trained at our
Coast Hospital and for the last two years
has been with our armv in Egypt " and
France. Recent work on the frontier inva-
lided her to England, and now her nursing
hours are spent at Southall Hospital.
Society w-ise and otherwise rushed St.
Stephen’s to see the beauty bride, Dora
-Alexander, hand her liberty over to Leslie
Walford. w'ho for the second time on earth
promised the usual things. Jeanette Gordon
shed further glory over the ceremony in her
fuchsia-toned gown of varying shades. She
looked handsome enough to have been
carried off .as a bridal posy. Two nights
prior to his second binding the bridegroom
was feasted at Paris House by 50 admirers.
But, of course, they didn’t see the trousseau.
It was just scrumptious!
Sydney Hospital, which has just had its
first" 1917 directors’ meeting, has Matthew
Harris as president. On the domestic side
the ’Orspital has descended from its former
lofty attitude towards the useful V.A.D. It
has recently asked to have the loan in the
busy mornings of some of these hard-working-
young char-ladies. The lasses take a fort-
night at a stretch. One dainty damsel tells
me she doesn’t char all the time: she has
been promoted to feed the more helpless
patients. The butterfly brigade, which cast
a flimsy chiffon shadow' over the first V.A.D.
movement, soon fainted away before the orgy
of wmshing-up w'hich is the voluntary’s lot
here below. So the hospital that begs the
Young Person to come over and help now
generally gets a mighty energetic char-girl—
gratis.
After five years’
absence from his
native land, violin-
ist Lionel Lawson
stepped off a mail-
boat the other day.
He came from Eng-
land to see his
father, and then—
off to the war! If
possible he will go
from an Australian
aviation school. If
that is too long a
wait, he will go
anyhow the autho-
rities will take
him. “I’d rather go
if only to wash
dishes,” he says,
“than stay at home.” This well-set-up,
high-spirited boy knows Germany. He had
had two years’ study in the Berlin Conserva-
toire when the wild animal broke loose
in 1914, and he knows what it is likely to
do before it is driven back into its cage.
The little .photo shows Lionel Lawson
now just short of his nineteenth birthday.
Chatting of music and other things (prin-
cipally other things) he says: “As I saw
the German professor in Berlin, he was of
a type very different from the aggressive
military caste there. lie was generally a
fairly genial chap with his head at all sorts
of odd moments over a. pot of something or
other. Meals seemed to be always going on.
The average German oats in a very messy
way, and sops his bread or biscuits into
any liquid that’s handy. The German
woman is crushed—but. she doesn’t know
it. So in the home there’s peace of the
kind we’d get here if they won the war!
Even when I was there freedom was un-
known in the Kaiser’s kingdom. In this
sense —if you’re only there six days they
want to know all about you, and they can
put their hand on you at a moment’s notice
if they want you. They wanted me badly
when the war came; but we—my mother
and sister were with me —had escaped
to England.” While there, Lionel, besides
helping at concerts for the wounded, had a
few successful affairs on his own account.
“It’s all nonsense to condemn the amuse-
ments that go on in London. iilhey’re
mostly to cheer the men from the trenches,
and the English peonle as a whole are now
working magnificently -for the war. In
fact, it’s the war all the time. If some of
the slackers could see the ‘wounded coming
back from France, or the funerals of women
and babies killed in Zep. raids, as I have
done, they wouldn’t be long out of khaki.”
Mrs. Earp lately caught a bromide print
of “the old Queen” in her best .cap and Sun-
day weeds, before the London stock was
exhausted. It hangs now in the parlor of
the Queen Victoria Club. The draperies
were lately removed by Surgeon-Colonel
Both in the presence of many women, mid-
and later-Victorians.
'Our old friend Southwell, who had about
a year to live when Sydney hurled a hand-
some cheque at his pocket in 1914, is looking
very well and fit. This news comes from a
recently-returned Australian, who saw a
good deal of him in London. Paling’s for-
mer concert-manager does a lot of honorary
management for patriotic shows in tin l Fog,
and butters a crust for himself with journal-
istic work. So there’s no word of his return.
A few weeks ago I gave you the bones of
a romantic story concerning Michel Domer-
ehikoff, a Russian naval officer who was in
Sydney a few years ago. He is still piling
up adventures that will take the stiffening
out of merely sensational fiction. The gun-
boat he commanded was recently torpedoed,
and he and "some of the crew were eventu-
ally saved after an icy immersion. At latest
advices Michel was sampling much hospi-
tality from the Y.M.C.A. near the scene of
his dip. He married a Sydney girl, Miss
Fussel, as you may remember. She is get-
ting her share of thrills, and travelled alone
half round Asia to meet her husband in
Russia. While Michel, who has acquired a
barrow-load of decorations, was hanging on
to a raft, after the submarine encounter, a
little “Dom” was born —I think in Odessa.
It was a very small party that met at the
Carlton the other afternoon, after a quiet
wedding in St. Stephen’s. The bride was
Muriel Davidson, who accepted a plain gold
ring from Captain Tyrie. A.M.C., formerly
of Westralia. The Wagga girl was frocked
m a tailor-built cream suit.
At a recent gathering of Thrift dames one
member of the party began to ask what the
Thing really was, and what it wasn’t. “For
instance,” said the doubting Thomasina,
“you say that you can't sell good home-made
cake under Is. a lb., present price of ingredi-
ents. Then you prepare to make and sell it.
in Thrift week, at that figure. If I can buy
cake, shop or factory made, that serves my
purpose, at, say, Gd. a lb., then am I a
thrifty person to spend double the money on
yours?” At this crisis the conversation
veered round to less explosive arguments.
The ghost of the Soudan expedition—the
white donkey—is once more in print. I
saw him (or is it a lady?) amongst the
Duntroon dandelions a while ago; and the
Canberra area is still the home of the plump
pensioner. I fancy the late Bob Nathan, a
member of the futile expedition, handed the
donkey over to the Campbells, then living
in the big homestead which is now included
iii the military-college grounds.
The naval Miss Henderson said good-bye
to the sailors’ folk at the Margaret-street
centre last week, and was handed £75 to dis-
tribute among the widows and orphans of
the Jutland fight. The cash was acquired
at a recent concert given by the Naval Com-
rades’ Association..
Actor-singer Edmund Sherras is playing
a new role—in khaki tailorings. lie makes
No. 70 from the local theatrical ranks to
transfer to the military business since
reveille sounded.
A while ago the Mater Misericordi® Hos-
pital at North Sydney made a special.appeal
for funds (Mrs. I\ Leahy, of Mosman, was
the power behind the pen), and as a result
£650 ’’was raised by collection. Expenses
nil. That will take some beating, won’t it?
Amy Perrins, a Neutral Biiy girl, is wear-
ing the sign of her engagement to T. M.
Philson, now of the Malay States, formerly
of Maoriland. Next month the wedding-
takes place at Singapore.
If local society had more time for frills
it might try the chopstick as a diversion at
the evening meal. While the Taisei Maru
was in port, our Best People made a few
hurried efforts to consume soup and other
slithery sustenance with the aid of the
inadequate sticks. Only a few well-informed
citizens, who had learnt the trick in Japan,
seized both weapons in the right hand. This
leaves the other digit free to scoop up the
food and hurl it on to the ivory tools. You
can’t do it in your best gloves—it might give
the soup a flavor. A chopstick demonstra-
tion would be a lively item at a comforts
fund show. Anyone would part with a shil-
ling to see, say, a Public Service Board epi-
cure juggling with the prongs.
Alfred Hill is now definitely in charge of
the Apollo Club, which used to be the Liede.r-
tafel. In the long ago he shook very good
music out of the old Lied. Now many of
the Apollos are warbling—or cursing—in
the muddied fields of France ; but there are
a few old stagers left to supply the Club
with its deep Aniens. .
Before we begin to breakfast by gaslight
on dull mornings, the clock is to be adjusted.
The poultry-yard, which refuses to go to roost
by the daylight-saving time, and the equally
insubordinate cow will not have their domes-
tic affairs upset after March 25.
There’s a chance of your old coat and
skirt—if it was made by a good tailor —
looking fairly in the picture by June or July.
If it is not too tube-like in the skirt it will
be an inconspicuous garment. The very
wide drapery is on the wane. The male
cutter never liked it, and it’s Scissors that
rules the fashion-plates.
Where do all the hairpins go? At one
women’s club, otherwise well catered for,
members may be seen making frantic efforts
to scratch skewers out of all kinds of crevices.
Pins are equally priceless in moments of dis-
tress. The famine in toilet-tools at most
women’s clubs suggests the dreadful thought
that night-watchmen use the crinkly weapons
to clean their pipes. But at the Queen’s
there’s always plenty. Your good bridge-player
couldn’t stand the mental fag of hiding the
nuisance in her mouth while she put her
marcel waves into a fresh bun. But the
bone-bare appearance, of the ordinary femi-
nine club’s retreat is one of the burning
questions of the hour.
Artist Tindall’s eldest son has been wed in
Launceston to a local girl. Grace Cookman.
The bride had a presentation from the choir
of St. John’s. Young Tindall is doing black-
and-white work in Melbourne.
Kitty Kennedy, a niece of Father Shaw, of
the Australian “wireless” experiments, has
married Leslie Quigley, a son of the John
Quigleys, of Widgerie Waa station, Trangie.
The knot was tied at the Sacred Heart.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


BLACK WHITE
'
: ■
mMM.
*v
’^o-
- Tf ,
tA - je’srw,l’#■ ,;’ #
■
W.M'y'W- 1
"
£
,-rf
NBSS
’S:mm
■■■'
•• :.
mMim
immmfM/MmiMmM
' : ■■
: !
wm-m
flmA .\ vl
I
MM
. ,
:
■
- ■
■ : .";
/r gg
a -v
“THE HIGHLAND BRIGADE.”
WHISKY


SUPERIOR
F aimer's Razors
EXCEPTIONAL IN QUALITY; KEEN IN PRICE.
FR9O. —Highest-grade SAFETY RAZORS in leather
case; heavily plated handles, Gillette pattern; com-
plete with 6 blades. As Illustrated.
PRICE 8/6 each
FR9I. —BENGALL RAZORS, black handles, hollow
ground; f and J inch blades. As Illustrated.
PRICE 5/6 each
FR92.—Better Quality BENGALI,
RAZORS, black handles, fully Hollow
Ground ; % and f inch blades.
PRICE 8/- each
f-inch blades, PRICE . 8/6 each
TEe Pay Carriage.
Farmer's, Sydney.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
No. 4. A.
Ll- m
Fb
Cbfj
33 F tv
CA
ye
THIS WINTER
THE MAN
WHO CARES
WILL WEAR ONE OF
BUCKLEY’S
BRAYTON
OVERCOATS
AND BY SO DOING HE WILL
EXPERIENCE A SENSE OF
COMFORT AND SMARTNESS
THAT ONLY SUCH A COAT
CAN GIVE; MOREOVER, HE
WILL BE IMMUNE FROM
THE VAGARIES OF THE
CLIMATE.
NW
YmM,
■Z--
m i
m
r 4
111
<S=r 0 s
81531.
A really smart, well made, comfort-
able Coat for men and-young /•ijl
men who wish to be well-
dressed. '
In the Newest Overcoatings.
Other prices, 755. and 84s.
NO BETTER VALUE.
Melbourne’s Lowest
Prices Always.
The Man’s Store.
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, March 12, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Australian Cup brought out the mil-
liners’ butterflies. The first flight—the ones
who came to lunch-parties—were smothered
in furs because of the suspiciously misty
morning; but the later arrivals were in
summer gear. Mrs. Clive Leonard was a
vision of white ninon. Mrs. Marlow (Syd-
ney) looked pale after her illness in a fawn
I rock. Airs. Hocking (Westralia) was in
navy with a Tuscan hat and equal to any
sort of weather. Airs. Hawker (Adelaide)
splashed big black spots on her white fur-
trimmed ninon. Airs. Charlie Waters pro-
claimed herself a Sydney woman by dis-
trusting our Melbourne autumn in dark
navy tailorings with a big pink velvet collar.
Mrs. J. A. Collins (Auckland) was in dove
grey from hat to shoe-tips. The two Rouse
girls (Sydney) walked the lawn in pretty
girlish frocks —Marjorie in pink and white
ninons cut in the Empire style. Airs. L. K.
S. Alackinnon had bright blue laurel leaves
in her hat. Aliss Alackinnon floated in voile
that flared to a yard-wide hem and sup-
ported a rustic hat composed of wild-flower
wreaths. Mrs. Philip Russell, in white
cloth tailorings, received the heaps of con-
gratulations showered on her after her hus-
band’s win. Alr.s. Doolette was in black
taffeta, and Airs. Eric Connolly wore a lovely
little frock of black taffeta embroidered iu
gold.
The last hurrah of the V.R.C. Autumn
Aleeting was shouted and the last curse mut-
tered at Flemington on Saturday. Sassiety
went home with its gold chain-bag very loose
and floppy, for the handy half-crowns all
vanished with the defeat of numerous hot
favorites by “a nose” or “half a nose.” Why
don’t they breed favorites with extra long
beaks? 1 The very sick Leslie Stuart had a
tonic presented to him by his horse Fire-
works, which won the Autumn Steeplechase
from Flash Bob —the only other animal to
finish on its legs.
Airs. Bertie Knight, visiting from Singa-
pore, put fine silk tailorings into the pie-
uire. She used to be one of the Ben
Osbornes, of N. S. Wales. Airs. Ranclaud
wore fluffy brown furs over her light silk
frock. Airs. Dick Hawker v'oro navy tailor-
ings of a smart cut. Edith Hill, from Syd-
ney, watched the horses in the paddock from
out of rainy-day togs while standing in a
wonderful pair of patent-leather boots. Airs.
Yicol, who saw Rael Locin nearly win the
last race, was in cloth called “midnight
blue.” Airs. Isaacs, the Judge’s wife, wore
startling black and white, and daughter
Nancy _ white and gold. Airs. Dudley
Brahani from Perth found a duck of a Dutch
blue hat and wore it with her grey togs.
Airs. Reggie Clarke was in black, and Airs.
Sep Aliiler in blue. Airs. Byron Aloore
sailed about under spread wings of white
lace in a black hat.
A larger bunch than usual of Sydney
sports are over for the Autumn gallops.
Theo Marks (architect), Harry Chisholm
(horse-flesh), Jimmy Nott Osborne (wool),
John Spencer Brunton (flour), Ben Osborne
(sheep), AlcArthur Onslow (politics and
Polycrates), and John Brown (coal) are
amongst those punters who have come to
take a fall out of the bookies. Amongst the
dressers I notice Mrs. Ken Richards and
her youthful mother, Airs. Alaiden; Mrs.
Ben Osborne, with her pal Airs. Wilkinson;
Edith Hill, the statuesque heiress; and
little May Alilne, who shows children how
to point the toe.
Squatting widow Clifton, of Darling
Downs, is in Alelbourne for the races. Aliss
Johnston, a one-time Bananaland journalist,
is flatting with her a,t the Lincoln house, in
Spring-street. Lieut. Ralph Clifton has just
sent mother details of his marriage. The
soldier got eight days’ leave, and hurried off
to the parson with his Australian girl. He
married Ida Boyd, daughter of Alajor Boyd,
of Brisbane. Miss Boyd wrote for the
Courier for many years, and now that her
husband has gone back to France she is
making copy for English papers from
Weymouth.
Airs. Glenloth Peters is in town, but is
wearing quiet, dark garb and not looking
towards Flemington, where her race frocks
are usually a sensation. Uncle “Ottawa”
Campbell’s death and the passing of the two
fine Campbell sons in France (all within a
few months) have sent her into social retire-
ment.
«
Lawyer Leslie Stuart is seriously ill, and
the autumnal saddling-paddock at Fleming-
. ton has missed him. Airs. Stuart has
turned herself into nurse-in-chief and left
her race frocks unpacked in their tissue-
paper wrappings. The Stuarts are house-
keeping at the gorgeous home of the Fred
Fairbairns, which they took over when the
Fairbarns raced to England.
The Italians came back on Saturday. The
Princess’s was packed with Sassiety and
enthusiasm, for tfie handsome Cappelli was
starring in “II Trovatore.” The best music-
eaters sat it out like a deaf and dumb asy-
lum, and at the finale Cappelli was the only
star who received flowers. It was almost a
tragedy to Russ and de Revers, who had
wailed and warbled with him. Not even a
voice jujube was handed to the poor things.
Cappelli hugged his flower-garden and jabbed
a white rose under tbe protesting patrician
nose of Scamuzzi. He then threw posies to
friends in the stalls and beamed and showed
Ids white teeth in endless smiles. De Revers
made her hit in black velvet and very white
muscular arms. She looked as if she could
have used force to gaoler Scamuzzi when
that handsome baritone was arguing the
point with her through pages and pages of
“score.”
Scamuzzi strode about in silver armor
and a white linen cloak. The meaning of
that flapping, loose white cloak-of-opera is
now clear to me since the Canadians’ famous
nightdress raid; it is for disguise in the
snow. The pretty little Russ was dis-
guised under the brown stain and gipsy dress
of the mother. Still she managed to get in
some brilliant eye-play in the direction of
her front-stall adorers while she lay resting
on the uncomfortable prison couch.
The season was to have started with a
reception-matinge on Saturday; but some
hitch in the transport of the scenery inter-
fered with the arrangements. The gaol walls,
etc., were thrown into place only just in
time for the evening performance. This
theatrical jerrybuilding led to some queer
by-play in the prison scene. Cappelli had to
rush to the heavy bars of the window and
shake them in a frenzy. He nearly pulled
the whole penitentiary about his ears. Some
prompt stage-hands saved the edifice from
collapse. But the extreme tremolo of de
Reverb voice shook it all the tune.
Victoria’s Ancient Mariners propose to
plough the charity seas of Melbourne for
six days, beginning on Monday, the 19th.
On the 20th they will give their own particu-
lar form of entertainment at the Town
Hall, at which Governor and Lady Stanley
will be present and the chanteys will be
selected with the strictest regard for polite
society. The Mariners gave a similar show
at the Athenaeum Hall last year, when the
proceeds enabled the management to send
pipes and tobacco to over 1000 mine-sweepers
on the North Sea. The top price for tickets
(ask at the bookstalls) is only 2s. Gd., and
anyone who doesn’t want a ticket can give
a bit for the boys who are up against the
submarine menace. On Button Day (March
23) the ladies’ committee will run a kiosk
outside the Town Hall and a cafe chantant
inside.
In frugal France all patriotic endeavor
must be conducted with the strictest
economy and on the most up-to-date busi-
ness lines by order of the Government,
which takes no one and nothing on trust.
Even the most handsomely-coroneted dames
.who run soldiers’ comforts bureaus have to
account for every centime spent, and the
secretary has to keep the books written up
and the cash balanced, for police auditors
may drop in at any moment, and the slight-
est inaccuracy results in the unfortunate
official being hauled into court. Rather a
contrast to the methods obtaining in Mel-
bourne ! One committee administering pub-
lic funds had been buying tea from retail
firms until a new member brazenly suggested
the vulgar plan of getting the stuff wholesale
—a money-grubbing idea which was met with
a tired, contemptuous smile of opposition by
the original fumblers. But when the exas-
perated new member came back with a
quotation from a wholesale grocery and
showed the opposition that a saving of three
shillings in the dozen pounds could be made,
they showed signs, of intelligence—even of
gratitude. A lot of that sort of waste has
been going on.
Mrs. Richardson, of Lockinge. Kew, has
had a bushranging party for the Red Cross.
It lasted for an afternoon and an evening.
Olive Godwin, Kirby. Irma Caron, Norah
Delaney and Strella Wilson manned a first-
class concert programme, and billiardist
Lindrum played exhibition games in the
evening.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson took her fine
voice and a string orchestra along to Mat-
lock House Hospital on Saturday, and gave
the soldier patients a treat. Mrs. Richard-
son used to charm Adelaide as Lilian Lucas.
Who would be a councillor when he can
be a captain? The cabled news of Charles
Atkins’s promotion to the three-star rank
made all Hennessy’s men stick out their
waistcoats last week and talk about the
coming downfall of the Hun. Atkins is
with the South Lancashires because Pearce’s
Department wouldn’t find him anything to
do with the Australians. While he is on
the job of cleaning up the Kaiser he has
extended leave to neglect the metropolitan
efrains and dustboxes.
When the Gaud Mayor gave a party to
returned soldiers he took the Theatre Royal
and the big “Intolerance” picture for the
evening. The Patriotic Leaguers who toil
at packing goods in the basement of the
Town Hall were also asked. The Hennessy
dame in black, sparkling with jet and dia-
monds, sat in the front circle with her hus-
band. General Sellheim in highly-decorated
khaki and Mrs. Sellheim in black, with
hair to match, and sparkling eyes, lightened
the gloom alongside. Commander and Mrs.
Tickell sat close handy. Mrs. Norman
Brookes was with the Harry JSummertons,
and Ivy Deakin-Brookes sat with her hus-
band. A neat bunch of returned nurses
chattered in the stalls, the white nun-coifs,
scarlet cloth capes and grey frocks making
a great splash of color. These sisters of
Billjim were motored to the theatre in open
cars at the head of the marching regiment of
soldier-guests.
Mrs. Goodall, of Middle Brighton, has
been in a state of pot-and-kettle ecstasy ever
since 10 o’clock on Saturday night, when
Mrs. Eric Connolly ran round to tell her she
had won the superb kitchen—Mrs. Con-
nolly’s own contribution to the Brighton fes-
tival. It was raffled by. her to the cheery
tune of £478.
War works all sorts of changes. An Anzac
colonel, who threw up a legal job to get into
khaki, lately strayed from the Roman lines
into the Anglican camp. The 'version hap-
pened in Egypt, and the Bishop of Jerusalem
swore in the new recruit.
Melbourne has another skirted recruiting-
speaker. Her name is Nellie Martyn, and
her farther runs the Steel Co. of Australia at
Brunswick. During the daytime Miss
Martyn takes a hand in managing dad’s busi-
ness, and climbs the platform or the soap-
box at nights. Her only previous speaking
experience was with the A.W.N.L.
A small Sassiety flutterer with large soulful
eyes is crying them out because she has been
refused a passport to England. “I do so
want to go and do my pit” is her plaint—
after two years’ frivolling here. What does
she want to do, anyhow—build battleships,
or weary wounded soldiers with chatter?
Died of wounds in France, Lieut. E.
Keith Carlile, son of the Knight of South
Yarra. The young man had only recently
arrived at the Front after spells of service
at Rabaul and various training camps. Many
a Billjim will miss him badly; for he was
one of the kindly sort, who never disguised
a deep concern for his subordinates’ comfort.
Keith has left a brother in the mud of the
Somme and a sister patching casualties near
by.
Robert Bruce (descended in a direct line
from the spider-watcher) is going to Eng-
land via America to do his bit. Mrs. Bruce
(who was one of the two handsome Jackson
sisters) is accompanying him as far as New
York.
General Kirkpatrick’s wife is no longer
plain “Mrs.,” a title having fallen on our
late Inspector-General. In a recept letter
to a Melbourne friend she described the
delights of launching pretty daughter
Georgie on Simla society, and added that
the General was “straining at the leash” to
get off to the war. But the Viceroy and
the Commander-in-Chief -were holding the
other end of the string and assuring the
General’s wife that “they could not possibly
do without him.”
Rumor insists that “Better-Not” Walling-
ton is engaged to be married to a duchess.
But cautious Australians won’t cheer until
the news is officially confirmed. It would
almost choke Wally to say “I will,” without
any sort of qualification or reservation.
While on her way to London, via Maori-
land, Mab Gutteridge was awakened in her
hotel bedroom by the dulcet voice of a burg-
lar whispering : “Don’t scream and I won’t
hurt you !” Mab opened her eyes and looked
into the muzzle of a revolver; but the next
instant she had struck it from the raider’s
hand, and a disarmed burglar was plunging
towards the window with a very angry lady
hanging on to his coat. He did his frantic
best to get away, but Mab is the big sister
of fighting doctors, and she managed to
entertain him till a policeman came up.
The Law got him just as he slipped over the
window-ledge.
The University boys in khaki gave a
return dance party on Saturday to some
girl hostesses who partied them at East St.
Kilda a month or two ago. The hosts took
the Gregory Hall, ol' All Saints (it has a
perfect floor for dancing), and saw to it
that there were plenty of partners. Miss
Embling was in a frilly white frock all
tipped and edged with silver lace. The sweet
little Roth well girl appeared in pink tulle
and ripped her frock from hem to waist
before the party was an hour old ; but she
got pinned up with dozens of small
“safeties,” had her tears dried and enjoyed
the rest of the party. Mrs. Embling, in a
pale jade green gown and tawny hair, came
as a chaperone. Mrs. Joske was another
overseer in black lace. Mrs. Roth well stayed
ar home on the sick list because of an acci-
dent. with a bursting stove while she was
playing locum tenens for a departed cook.
Percy Leason, one of the best of Victoria’s
younger water-colorists, and the illustrator
of “Here is Faery,” has taken his brushes to
Sydney, there to reside permanently. In
the intervals of work he is trying to size up
the banquet of studio “stuff” provided by
Nature. But he is luckier than etcher John
Shirlow, who could only find a holiday week
in which to look round the inexhaustible
harbor. Then he had to pack his bag and
come home lamenting. Melbourne is a fine
city, but .Man made it alone. Providence
collaborated with Man in the mixing of the
northern rival.
Maggie Knight, now with a J.O.W. co. in
Brisbane, has just heard that her young son
Bombardier Bruce Plenderson has been
severely wounded in France, and is in
the County of Middlesex Hospital, London.
The young man put in two years in the
field before being bowled over, and he had
to charge the recruiting-officer three times
before he could pass. But strict attention
to physical culture got him into khaki at
19. He used to be a clerk in the Royal Bank
here.
Borne away on the idea that every stage
amateur carries a leading-lady’s contract
in her powder-sack, Allie Robson and the two
Handley girls have left to try their luck in
the U.S.A. The trio, who have been appear-
ing frequently with Gregan McMahon, had
an idea of also visiting the Cold Country,
but officials negatived the proposal with
enthusiasm. Ethel Leon, who had originally
intended to join the party, finally decided
that Australia was good enough for her.
Minnie Waugh-Orr has come back from
her long Maoriland honeymoon tour, and is
at work once more in her voice studio. She
sang in Wellington while she was away, but
said “Not this time, thank you,” to an
Auckland appeal. Her iron merchant was
then heading for Melbourne, and she wanted
to accompany his sea-song.
No sound in the social world -but the irri-
tating click-click of knitting-needles and
mutterings about cotton. An occasional
petticoated tea is organised, but things gener-
ally are so dull that a few desperate Misses
are seeking excitement on the Yarra Bank.
One leading lady in soap-box oratory is the
eldest daughter of Weigall, Iv.C. She lately
harangued able-bodied Sunday promenaders,
and their best girls from the roof of an apple
case (“O Eve!”), and had to answer so
many interrupters that she became hoarse—
the next worst tiling to being struck dumb.
Of course, the listeners enjoyed themselves
thoroughly. I don’t know how many recruits
she got.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


*
%
4
H
s
MB
' i
J'i
-. 1
1
m;
...
/
a
111 «
; S; > . ;* .
i. x •%"&
m
.... &
m m
'o* :v
m
.lOJT- (sF.M i3iP W. Bl RDWOOD
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
*
X- >
Wct£b<jri/>
Jcolc/i
s®®
%il
"/S///////////////////////S///S/S/S'"
\m
msk
mfm
mm.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Lieut.-Gen. Sir W. Bird wood is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set of 12 will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or Yl penny
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
\ A / A T AT
AT o' I f"")
%
%.
V_-


P. o.
Royal Mail Steamers
for England.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
No Visitors allowed on Ship or on Wharf on Day of Sailing.
Company 3 c^ets are sect * ou interchangeable with the Orient
First Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with the \V S v r
between Australian ports. ' * *
For Fares and all further particulars apply to
A. GORDON WESCHE,
Tel., City 6321. Superintendent in Australia, 63 Pitt Street.
KingGe
WHISKY
ds
th e TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
PERPETUAL MOTION.
AGENT: “I can sell you several household patents that will save your wife and daugh-
ters a lot of time and energy."
COCKY: “Wot I'd like t'r know is 'ow are they gain' t'r make use of th' time an' energy
they save?”
“M.P.A.”: I’ve seen big loads drawn by
horses, bullocks, camels and traction engines, but
for. the long, strong pull give me elephants every
time. If “Lowan” (B. 22/2/’I7) had seen a few
pull-outs in boggy ground by a team of elephants
attached to 1 t tons of heavy gear he would have
kicked the bucket ere this. I saw Wirths’ elephants
' Alice, Lizzie, G’ardy, Jumbo, Little Alice, Molly and
the recently-departed Toby, the champion puller of
the team—simply run away with a big jinker, loaded
with 17 tons of wet canvas and other gear, and the
wheels never revolved. The whole concern just tore
up the bog like a plough. As a puller Toby stood
alone in Australasia. She could shift the aforesaid
jinker from a dead start on a level road. Watching
war movies, showing- squads of men shifting heavy
guns, I could never understand why elephants are
not used. In shifting the circus in all weathers
the big fellows are always up to the toil, and score
where bullocks or horses would fail, because they
can push as well as pull. One good Jumbo is as
good as eight horses any day. In the winter their
hay allowance is always increased. They pull with
a heavy leather breast-plate and chains, and the pull
is worked on different lines to the teaming of horses.
With (say) a team of seven elephants in a drag
out of boggy ground three would be harnessed team
fashion, two attached to the front wheels, and two
big weighty chaps “dulling” on the back wheels.
This method was employed in drawing out a traction
engine that had got bogged in the heavy shingle
of the Tuki Tuki River in Maoriland, I’d like
“Lowan” to see what Wirths’ elephants would do
to 12 tons of wool. If the waggon wouldn’t stand
up to the tug they’d simply lift the bales off and
land ’em at the railway siding. Instructions would
be entirely unnecessary. “Lowan” and “Spraggs”
may have their nags every time, but elephants for
me. If Geo. and I’hil Wirth had to depend on horses
to shift their show it would never get half the one*
night stands done. *
* * * *
“McNorth” : Black brother isn’t surprised
at’ the wonders of civilisation to any great extent.
-He is too philosophical. 1 once asked: a far-outback
nig. if he didn’t think matches were wonderful things
to make fire with. lie replied indifferently: “Oh,
matchiss he nothing; he fashion belong white man.”
He blamed (lie things he didn’t understand on to the
white man as a matter of course, and let it go at
that. A Papuan who had accompanied his boss on
a trip south was asked what he considered the most
wonderful thing in Sydney. The fuzzy-headed child
of nature, unimpressed by the motors, trams, picture-
shows, ferries and all the rest of it, answered that it
was. marvellous how all the people of the city lived,
as hot one of them seemed to have a garden. He
reckoned, also, the people were more or less dilly
because they put on their ciothes in , the daytime
when it Was hot and took them off at night when it
was cold. A New Guinea man, being sane, reverses
the process.
* * * *
“Apis”: There is a lamp-post in a busy
Prahran (Vic.) street against which the local Aus-
tralian, however casual, does not lean. It is an
iron beehive. There are many gardens, to say noth-
ing of the municipal destructor, in the neighborhood,
and a working party of bees have made the lamp-
post their impregnable home. They have their exits
and their entrances by a small hole 12in. from the
base of the post, around which the autochthonous (6 to
4 that one) small boy gnashes his sweet tooth and
rages in vain.
* * * *
Bindyi : After he had been half an hour
complaining about the price of wheat I asked him
how the missus was. “Oh, orl right,” he said.
Happened to meet him next day. “I told you wrong
yesterday,” he explained. “The missus is not orl
light; she s pretty crook. I asked her lars’ night.”
“Leo Lear” : One of our most interesting
birds is the spine-tailed swift, whose nearest relation
is the humming-bird. Swifts are not absolutely
Australian, as they spend our winter in Northern
Asia and nest there. Then
before the great freeze settles
down on the lonely land at
the top, they turn south ir
countless hordes, skimming
over China, the islands and
seas to summer in Australia,
Tasmania and Maoriland. This
migration is centuries old,
and must date from the Jime
this continent stretched much
further east than it does at
present. Thus the birds learnt
the existence of Maoriland.
In Bananaland the swifts
usually arrive at the begin-
ning of November, though
I’ve seen them' a full month
earlier. In Southern Victoria
it is often March before any'
are sighted—and then look-
out for a change in the
weather t 1 don’t want to •
advance their claims as rain-
prophets, but I’ve never seen
the birds here unless an atmo-
spheric change was ’ about.
Almost invariably they appear
with a falling barometer. On
a hot January day on the
Queensland coast I’ve sat in
the shade and looked up
through flight on flight of
swifts, the lowest skimming
the ground with a loud swish,
the top ranks just dots on the
white cumulus clouds. Then
in a minute they were gone,
in what direction I didn’t
know-—they just disappeared.
The birds are wonderful fliers
—swift, as their name indi-
cates, and tireless. They are
reputed never to settle, though
they sometimes do cling to
cliffs. Has any Abo. seen a
spine- tail settle? And if so,,
where and when? If they do
happen to come to earth their
wings are so long and legs so
short that rising would be ex-
tremely difficult. Though one
of our fastest movers, their
bones are not hollow like those of most birds, so
bang goes the theory that hollow bones are a neces-
sity for buoyancy in flight.
* * * »
“Leo Lear”: “Reynard” (B. l/2/’l7)
asks information re nesting localities of white ibis.
I his bird is certainly not as common as the straw-
necked variety, but I’ve seen flocks running into
hundreds on low, swampy land. They work across
the land for insects, etc., in a face like a mob of
merino sheep on the browse. One noted camp of
• white ibis was in a large swamp on Darlot’s Creek
(S.W. Vic.), within a mile of my house." From
all appearances they had nested here for centuries,
and in the season could be seen in. all stages from
eggs to first flighters. However, in 1910 the swamp
was drained and the ibis departed ; but last spring
about 30 returned and started another rookery in
the reeds on the creek". I can see them flying over
.their nests from my kitchen window.
“Bedourie”: “Barcop’s” tale about the
cattle-drowning incident in the Georgina River, about
February, 1904, is all wrong. I was on the spot, so
I ought to know. The mob of 1500 had come all the
way from Wologorang (N.T.) in charge of drover
Rankin, and were supposed to be regular water-dogs.
When they arrived at Bedourie, on the Georgina, the
river was in high flood and the drover was advised to
put 50 or 00 over first, to give confidence to the
remainder. Not he! He said that they had been
reared on the coast where the country was princi-
pally lagoons and inlets from the sea, and he pushed
on. The next thing was that the beasts started to
ring in shallow water, and it was with great difficulty
that , they were persuaded to enter the deep water.
When they were at last jambed into the current, 30
or 40 abreast, with a depth of 20ft., they had no
chance to ring. The consequence was the ones behind
were trampling those in front and drowning them.
When Rankin got a count on the other side he was
exactly 310 short. For fully half an hour after the
last animal had landed safely, carcases in lots of
10, 12 and 15 would rise to the surface all entangled
together and go floating down the stream. Tom
Tracey in 1890 lost 60 head of bullocks at Cooper's
Creek, crossing Windorab, in exactly the same
manner, and all old drovers will remember this.
Four experienced men were helping him—Johnny
Craigie, Jim Lawson, Dave Suttie and Pat Condon.
Which seems to hint that experience isn’t always
the marble to back.
* * * *
“Poddy” : Any Abo. tell me why none of
our native birds seem to like the common or garden
slug? All the hills which lie between the Northern
and Southern Gippsland lines, when cleared and
sown down with cocksfoot, clover, rye, etc., become
infested with slugs in the early autumn and winter.
The ground is covered with them in the early morn-
ing, yet none of the native birds seem to tackle them
at all. ' I was digging spuds the other day in com-
pany with the usual kookaburra, rohin and grey
thrush, and though they readily ate any grub or
worm that turned up they- point-blank refused slug,
white, black or brindle. Whaffor?
Fiank Snodgrass” : The alarming reports
of the ravages of the blowfly on sheep and lambs
inland should cause any practical man to seek for a
remedy. As the various dips are not being qu jt e
ANY PORT IN A STORM.
TICKET-COLLECTOR ( sternly, to stowaway,
who has produced a defunct ticket):
“Here! This is no good — there's no
date on it!”
STOWAWAY ( desperately ): “What yer
cornin' at! Can’t yer see that yous
railway blokes has been punchin’ it all
the way from Bourke to Sydney, and
YE'VE CUT THE BLEEDIN' DATE OUT!”
satisfactory and traps not at all able to cope
with the danger, I have no hesitation in suggesting
the following mixture. Of course, pastoralists have
their own hobbies and can “make their own
pomade,” as it were, but it must have these in-
gredients
1 kerosene-tin of fat or lard.
1 quart of turpentine.
1 quart of Stockholm-tar.
11b. of beeswax.
Now add from 21b. to 41b. of insecticide or insecti-
bane. Render them all down, stir well and apply as
any practical man knows how to do. In small flocks
or specially valuable studs this would be very
efficacious and valuable. It kills the fly on contact
as well as fly-deposit. The mixture is not expensive,
and the ingredients are ready at hand on a sheep
station—except perhaps the insecticides, and those
the nearest general store will have in stock.
* * * *
“A-wa” : The boss on the Solomon Island
plantation was a typical Western Queenslander, six-
foot-two, and he had a sick “boy” on his hands.
When the big man came into the hut he said:
“Well, Charley, you better little bit to-day?” “No
more, master. No matter you give me medicine, he
no good ; me going to die finish.” Said the boss in
a voice of thunder, with his fist half an inch off the
boy’s nose: “Look, here; you die finish, me KILL
you!” With a yell of terror the patient nearly
hit the roof as he fled to work. That’s three months
ago, arid he hasn't knocked off yet for meals.
“Chink” : “E.S.S.” makes one of his few
mistakes when he introduces the reed-warbler, the
bush-lark and the blue wren as Australia’s only bird-
singers of the night. There’s another, the black-and-
white fantail, whose melody makes a very merry
lyric. And the best of all our warblers is over-
looked —the magpie. I’ve heard Madge repeatedly
carolling beautifully at all hours between sunset and
sunrise in summer. Incidentally, why should a bush-
man quote the opinions of Gregory Mathews on
Australian bird-songs? Mathews is merely a cabinet
naturalist, and, incidentally, hangs out in Maoriland.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE WAY TO MAKRAWAH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Smithton to Marrawah the plains go up and
down,
With spear-grass and button-grass a wave of shining
brown ;
And white clouds and grey clouds go drifting o’er
the lea,
hor eager is the wooing wind that conies across the
sea ;
hnchanted are the green hills (hat beckon from afar,
The wide lands, the long lands, .
The uplands, the strong lands, s*;'•
The lands that stretch from Smithton to Verdant
Marrawah. ~f.‘-
From Smithton to Marrawah the air is like a draught
Of red wine and white wine, on Mount Olympus
quaff’d ;
On sand-hill and gully-ridge the scarlet pig-face
weaves
A purple pattern in and out among the autumn
leaves;
And fragrant is the clover where the browsing cattle
are,
The sweet lands, the near lands,
The low-lands, the dear lands,
The lands that stretch from Smithton to verdant
Marrawah.
From Smithton to Marrawah the shadows fall awry,.
From half-light to twilight the changing moments
fly;
The tea-tree and currant-bush are nodding in the
breeze,
And wondrous is the yellow moon that peeps between
the trees;
While soft sounds the lullaby of waves upon the bar,
Of the grey lands, the coast lands,
The dream lands, the ghost lands,
The lands that steal from Smithton away to Marra-
wah.
VICTORIA.
BERNARD CRONIN.


■UIU
A.
A
THE MEN'S NEW SECTIONS
At DAVID JONES’
The opening of new sections for Men s Goods at
David Jones’ is a matter of double importance-; it
represents the growth of these departments through
consistent good service and reliability of goods offered,
and it further means that men may do their shopping
with additional comfort and speed.
The entrance to those sections is through doorway
next to Beard Watson Ltd. —Mercery Dept, is on the
ground floor, Men's Tailoring on first floor (take
elevator).
A REPRESENTATIVE EXAMPLE
OF “ORIENT” GOODS.
Sac Suit in Mid Grey English \\ orated ;
2-button Coat; Trousers have perma-
nent turn-up bottoms. The cut. work-
manship and finish are of the superior
standard that so characterises all our
“Orient” goods. Ready-made,
in all men’s sizes
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
60|-
)h
a
David Jones Ltd.,
Opposite G.P.0., Sydney.
Australian Made
a ■ssrtw s?« s
A s, usa M£ •&
»s£a£v2 ,M? , su‘sr&ss
fectionery that is fresh and contains no preservative, and
months old before you can buy them, and quite possibly years, necessitating of couise
preservatives.
Packed only in red boxes.
Price: 3/-, 5/-, 6/6, 10/6, 10/-, 25/-
Post Free to Any Address in Australia.
Mailed to you on
the same day as
manufactured.
gsd
162 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Leviathan Riding Trousers
and Breeches
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
c 2 0. —R I D I N G
BREECHES. Ready-to-
wear. In Khaki Gavbicord ;
with deep self strappings;
laced at knees; Fob and
Cross Pockets. Doubly
Stitched ; Taped Seams ; Cut
full for saddle comfort.
Will launder splendidly.
Best English make.
Sizes 3 to 7
18/6
Order by Post. State waist,
seat, inside-leg and calf
measurements.
C2O. —TAILORED TO
ORDER. In Khaki Drill,
21/-; Khaki Drill Cord
or Canton Mole, 27/6;
Whipcord, 45/-; Bedford
Cord, 45/-; Self Strapped,
5/- extra. Buckskin
Strapped, 13/6 extra.
ASK FOR
FREE SAMPLES.
V
!
C2I
czo
C2I.—JUDHPORE BIDING TROUSERS. Hea.ly-to-wear. Canjic
to illustration, with long self-strappings ; permanent tm nup C .
Pockets ; Belt Loop and Side Straps. Well cut, strongly sewn and splendidly stayed. Sms-Mo ~
In Khaki Drill A •; ir/«
111 Khaki Drill Of heavier weight and better quality \'rj/a
nrt™c„rt2f/« ; W«t * England MU. C "”"
Bedford Cord, 45/-; Self strapped, 5/- extra; Buckslun strapped, 13/6 extia.
WORKING TROUSERS. —.Ready-to-wear in Khaki or Drill; strongly mi ..
18/« ™°o! m. 21 J-f ivS i* l!/«; Bedford Cord, 35/-. So., trapped,
5/- extra; Buckskin strapped, 13/6 extra. Tlvo „ fl .
LEATHER TWEED TROUSERS. —Made from the toughest Dark Grey Leathei Tweed,
holeproof and practically indestructible. Ready-to-wear. Sizes 3 to <
ORDINARY CUT. 13/6 per pr. STOCKMANS CUT, 15/6 P Ol P r -
ask for new illustrated catalog.
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-e&ch
BRITISH-MADE
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5-cacK
Columbia
4 Records 4
COLUMBIA “No. 26” Supplement.
PINK LABEL SERIES.
'l2-inch Single-sided. Price 15s. each.
74012
\ UJCREZIA BORGIA:
1
*1 S ' s " to "" Madame OaSIS Contralto,
With Orchestra Conducted by Sir Henry J. \v ood.
74013
Ilipolito Laziii'o, Tenor.
•{ L/AFRICANA: “O Paradiso” (In Italian)
PURPLE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Single-sided. Price 7s. 6d. each.
71X6
. Madame Clara Butt, Contralto,
With ’Cello Obligato by W. H. Squire.
( A Summer Night
1
7137
j Sing, Joyous Bird ..
10-inch
Madame Elsa Stralia, Soprano.
single-sided. Price ss.
X 230
Madame Clara Butt, Contralto.
-j Kathleen Mavourneen
LIGHT
12-inch
BLUE LABEL
Double-sided. Price
SERIES.
6s. each.
L 1066
“Faust” Ballet Music. Nos. 6 and 7.
(“Faust” Ballet Music Nos. 1 to 5
“Prospero” Concert Overture
Sir Henry J. Wood and his Orchestra,
are on records Nos. L 1063 and L 1004.)
Sir Henry J. Wood and his Orchestra.
1.1078
Sally 'in Our Alley • ••••• Lo » don «*»« Quartet.
Cherry Ripe » ”
ooin
’Cello Solo, by W. H. Squire
\ IMerne’s Serenade
{ Murmuring Zephyrs
LUOI
, - i Gervase Elwes. Tenor.
j In Summer Time on Bretlon
j Fill a Glass with Golden Wine ,\ ' ”
1,1103
f Liebestraume (Dream of Love).
I Mazurko. —B minor. (Cliopin)
Pianoforte Solo, by Vladimir de Paclimann.
1,1103
“Rigoletto” Paraphrase. (Verdi-Liszt) „ ,
(a) Valse. G flat; (b) dfi rachmalm .
t. 1104
f “Oberon” —Overture. Part 1
1 “Oberon” —Overture. Part 2
Sir Thomas Beecham and
The Beecham Symphony Orchestra.
LllO5
f“A Roman Carnival”—Overture »
| “Damnation of Faust”—March »
a
99
L. 1106
Nocturne in E flat. (Chopin)
Transcription ot Welsh Air, “The Faithful
Albert Sammons, Violin;
Hand of H.M. Grenadier
Bird” ~ _
with the
Guards.
LllO7
Kennerley Rumford, Baritone.
f King Charles
{ Border Ballad
1,1108
Gerald O’Brien, Tenor.
i The Snowy-Breasted Pearl
\ Come Back to Erin
10-inch Double-sided. Price 4s. 3d.
D 1350
j Brahm's Hungarian Dance. No. 8 Violin Solo, by Albert Sammons.
} Reve d’enfant. (Sammons) ».
dark blue label series.
12-inch Double-sided. Priee ss. each.
G23
The Ladder of Roses One Step Prince’s Grand Concert Band
Oh, Joe, with Your Fiddle and Your Bow, One-Step „ „ » ”
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Etd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Etd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Etd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—II. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 213 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
b,
m
r
"»»«iuwjinmw»
V
i
I
FARMERS
MEGGITT LINSEED-OIL
MEAL should be used by every
farmer in Australasia. Pigs,
calves, heifers, cows, horses and
poultry thrive on a daily ration
of linseed-oil taeal. It increases
the milking capacity and lifts
the butter-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia
Meggitt meal-fed cattle carry
away all the prizes. Mr. H.
McD. Livingstone, Kosebill
Farm, Kingaroy, at the 1916
show won seven first prizes
with a pen of calves and won
the three butter-fat tests with
a pair of Meggitt Linseed-oil
meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
Parramatta, N. S. Wales.
‘F.N.T. : N. S. Wales Attorney-General
Hall, who so much admires the oak, elm, larch and
other imported trees when they are incorporated
with Australian scenery, left out one of the prettiest
from his list (B, 22/2/’l7). This beauty should not
bo ignored. Indeed, it can’t be ignored by those
who live in its neighborhood. At Malvern, where
some of the streets are planted with planes, one
dweller, who hardly knew he had a chest until he
went to live among these delightful immigrants, is
now a chronic hay-fever and asthma patient, and
has had to try a vaccine-inoculation in the hope of
getting relief. Ilis little boy is going the same
way. the doctor knows what it is—a poison-laden,
infinitesimal fibre from the plane which causes pro-
found irritation when inhaled with the Malvern air.
The elm, too, so belauded by the Attorney-General
and lots of other thoughtless souls, has a fatal, fine,
old, well-known English habit of suddenly dropping
a laigo, bony branch, without a solitary warning
ciack, and it isn’t healthy for any person who hap-
pens to be underneath.
“Eryander”: The world’s biggest rainfall
(B. 22/2/’l/) is in Assam, where Charapunji, in the
hhasi Hills, tops the score with 805 in. in one year
(1861), 530 in. in six months', 366 in. in a month
(July, ’6l), 150 in. in five days, 30in. in 24 hours,
and 9in. in 90min. The average fall for 25 years
is 494 in. Charapunji’s 24-hours’ figure was, how-
eyer, beaten by the heaviest falls ever recorded in
Europe—3lin. in 24 hours, at Joyeuse (France) and
33in. in 26 hours at Gibraltar.
THE ACCIDENT.
THE LAW ( indignantly): “An’ fer whoy did ye hit th’ malm?”
MIKE THE BANANAMAN (also indignantly) : “’It ’im—me? Why. I jist ’ad a dozen
left when e ups an’ sez: ‘How much?’ ‘A sprat th’ lot,’ sez I. ‘Well’ sez ’e
lookin’ at me ’orse. ‘I might git that fer th’ ’arness,’ sez ’e. Then ’e jist begin
examinin' me watchchain, calc’latin ’ like, when—when ’e slipped I tell yer!”
Yatti”: A snake called the copperhead
here (North Coast) reproduces its kind from eggs.
I saw a batch of 10 or 12 eggs turned up in some
loose soil, all joined together in two rows, after the
style of honeycomb. Opened one and a seemingly
fully developed 9-inch copperhead crawled out. The
other eggs were left in the very hot shn all day
and they shrivelled up, the young crawlers bein«-
dead when we looked at them next clay. We never
saw the mother snake.
■*■*■*■
“Musketoon” : The wet winter of 1916 has
made a great change in some of the lakes of N S
Wales. Twelve months ago Lake CowaJ near
Forbes, consisted of less than a spoonful of moisture.
During the previous, season wheat and hay crons
flourished in the bed. Now there is a sheet of
water miles square, teeming with waterfowl. Recently
a party of duck-murderers discovered a flock of over
a hundred pelicans disporting themselves on the
water. It is over 30 years since these birds had
been seen thereabouts.
* * M.
* *
"Iris” : One of the favorite drinks of the
poisonous black spider—the one with a red ribbon
down his spine—is bee-blood. This cunning devil
loves the dark. Mostly he is to be found in gloomy
recesses, lurking under stuff that hasn’t been shifted
in a dog’s age, and the bee-hive is just the sort of
shelter he likes. All he has to do is to choose the
right corner and wait for the bee to bring his dinner
to him-—until such time as the bee-keeper notices
that something is amiss and turns the hive inside
out for inspection. Then black-and-red brother rolls
himself up into a tight ball, drops to the ground
and pretends to be dead and gone. Generally he is,
within two or three seconds, which must be a bitter
blow to his self-confidence.
* * * *
The St. John’s wort weed now covers
according to the official figures, 184,000 acres in
Victoria, of which 156,000 are Crown lands, while
12 years ago only 10,000 acres were affected. If it
goes on spreading at the same rate it will cover the
whole State in a century or so. Various people are
getting excited over the prospect, but the State Min-
thaT kI?ePS C ° ol ’ Tt Will be o,lt ° f offi( ‘ e lon§ ' before
* * * *
Condamine : This is in case someone is
as innocent or foolish as I was. IJiad a fruit tree,
loaded, and the ants were destroying a good deal
of fruit. As a remedy I tied a kerosene rag around
the butt. It was effective. The ants changed their
address, but perhaps that was because the fruit also
changed its address. The tree died above the rag
and sent out suckers below it.
Ivhaki : Did you know that in chewing
sassafras bark or leaves you are supplying your body
with one of the best tonics and appetisers going?
Also, that a few fragments of the bark thrown into
the cask of home-made beer will enhance both flavor
and “bite” of the contents?
‘■Wart”: Our departed brother Binghi of
Tasmania had a legend to explain the origin of fire.
One day when the blacks had been sleeping at the
bottom of a hill they saw two strangers on the
summit. On going towards them the strangers
threw into their midst something like a star, which
set light to the grass and caused a panic. When
the inhabitants recovered from their fright thev
decided to save a sample, which was carefully wrapped
up and given to the
gins to take cal-e of.
Some little time
afterwards two gins
were sitting by the
seashore bewailing
their sad fate. They
were getting old and
their husbands had
taken up with
younger women. How-
ever, even heart-
-broken wives must
eat, so they decided
to dive for a cray-
fish. , While they
were in the water
a large stingray im-
paled them on his
spear. But the two
strangers who had
thrown the fire came
and killed the sting-
ray, and brought the
gins ashore. Unfor-
tunately they' were
dead. Observing this
the visitors lit a fire,
placed one gin on
each side of it, and
got some of the
largo blue ants
locally known as
bluebottles. These
they placed on the
breasts of the de-
ceased, who on
being stung imme-
diately came to life.
The strangers, who
were celestial be-
ings, then caused a
fog until everything
was as- black as
night, and under
cover of the darkness took the ex-eorpses with them
into the sky, where they still dwell, Castor and
1 ollux being pointed out as their star forms. You
could get a light from them any time if you knew
the now long-lost eorroboree.
* *
“Cross-cut;”: The dense North Coast
(N.S.W.) forests breed thousands of carpet-snakes
every year. T’other day, in putting a big teak log
tin ough the mill at Dunoon, we discovered a nest
of 52 unbroken and over a score of mutilated carpet’s
eggs They were the size of the first joint of the
thumb, and were linked together by a thread which
seemingly kept up the vitality; but whether they
were the effort of one carpet lady or the labors of
neighbors we couldn’t find out. What is the biggest
nest ever found? Another recent find was a shed
skin of a black snake, which though crinkled up
measured 6ft. 2in. Allowing for shrinkage it must
have covered a reptile of over 7ft. Timber-getters
and cockies don’t bother the carpet brother; but
the bandy-bandy black with yellow belly and the
brown get the sapling’ every time.
‘Tetifi”: Fred Turner, F.L.S., of Sydney,
says saltbush is the best vegetable to grow as a
firebreak in the bush. Having observed in fire-swept
country that the succulent leaves of this good Aus-
tralian were only slightly scorched, while other
trees were chiefly ashes and charcoal, Turner plumps
for the “old-man,” the grey and the Wcstralian tall
saltbush to protect houses and crops. Some merits
of the saltbushes are that they are easily grown,' can
be lopped as, fodder during drought without destroy-
ing their fire-resisting- qualities, and the young stems
and leaves make a good substitute for the cultivated
spinach.
* * *
1.11. : The snake’s mode of entering life
is various. Near Ballan (Vic.) I found a black
•snake containing from 20 to 30 soft eggs connected
in single file by a gristly cord. A few weeks later
killed two of the reptiles containing- respectively
20 and 33 perfect, snakes about a quarter of an inch
tlack and seven inches long. I inferred that they
were hatched within and had not previously seen
light. They only lived a few minutes after exposure
About the same time and place I found perfect young
lizards in soft shells which had .been separately
buried in ft mound of earth and were to be hatched
apparently without maternal agency.
“E.S.S.”: The golden-breasted whistler,
also called the white-throated thickhead (Pachycc-
phnla pectoral's), is an exception to the general rule
that bright plumage indicates weak power of song.
I hough gaily-dressed he is one of the most musical of
scrub lodgers. The under-surface of his togs is rich
yellow, the breast is crossed with a band of black ;
throat white, back olive green and head black. His
cousin, the rufous-breasted whistler, is only a little less
gaily apparelled and is an equally famous songster.
The music is heard to best advantage when the
whistlers perform in company. They have many
ringing, mellifluous notes, running flute-like, strong
and clear, and when the chorus is in full swing a
flood of harmonious sound seems to roll round and
round the enclosing hills. These birds have an extra
claim on the affections of Australians, as they are
whales for insects and caterpillars.
“Montalex”: Australia gets off lightly i n
61 ’!, °K-f Sna j Ce ' bite fatalit y. The annual
1 200th n f-f tS in India % ure ' out at
l-200th per cent, of the population. In Australia
inLacT 6 of 1 7 Uld ., mean aboltt 2 00 deaths a year
nsteaa ot . 10, the average for 20 years
ENCOURAGING THE RECRUIT.
WELL-MEANING OLD GENT, (to chance
acquaintance in khaki): “I always in-
terest myself in you young fellows
going to the war. Would, you favor me
with your full name, so that I shall he
able to pick you out in the casualty list
when it comes through?"
The N.S.W. average for the period was only three.
The recorded N. S. Wales cases for the last five
years show:—Tiger-snake: bites, 37; deaths, 15.
Death-adder: bites, 12; deaths, seven. Brown snake:
bites, 31; deaths, six. ■ Black snake: bites, 68;
deaths, two. The death-adder is our only viper. Its
venom causes the characteristic blood-thickening,
whereas the poison of our other snakes—all colu-
brine—produces the opposite effect. Viperine poison
acts powerfully through the stomach,, but colubrine
may be swallowed with impunity if there are no
broken surfaces. The antivenines prepared from
snake-poisons are effective only against the special
venom of their origin, and the poison of each species
is inert for only that species.
THEN HIS TURN CAME.
SHE: “ One a.m. is a nice time to get home!”
HE: "Well, I had to stag in town to go into
a business matter with Billy Jones.”
SHE: "Try someone else! Y’see, Billy’s
been here with me all the evening!”
TUPORO’S HIGH-GALLOPING HORSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Te Tuporo bought a horse from Bill
(And Bill was a dealer shrewd and cute) ;
That horse would buck all clay up-hill
And was known to the boys as a (crimson) beaut.
But Tuporo knew how to ride a horse;
He stuck to that “buck” like its own bay skin,
And with Maori methods of vast resource
He mastered the nedcly and broke him in.
Old Bill was down at the pub one day
When Tuporo entered to “hava te trink.”
Bill laughed, “Well, how's th’ old buckin’ bay?
He’s the very good horse to go, I think!”
Te Tuporo grinned as he quaffed his beer.
“He kot te hard mout’, but I toan’ min’.
An’ sometime te peggar a rittle bit queer—
He te planner to gallop too high pehin'."
MAORI LAND.
TIAKI.


DEPENDABLE DUNLOPS
;/.*AVAV.V.v
ip®
a*
SSSSS:
KiWiiV. *
k'X
* **.*/*»
r
///&*
;;//k
M 0
::::
ii
tiSltU
KSK
{«*&
!:ss•
l$:«
W
\6#i#
•V;V.V.
\vAft
k\&% \
|l 1
Hir
mi. '«
1
»»».•
\
■ \ x - M
O-
/> V*
V
ro
U
i
rr-T?
~ 0
Mill
»***
* X
\ **!**.£%* V v '
\
®:#fB
V * » «<s '«*,
«%*!** #»
\
».:.; * f
**«'**.*
\iV*\
»**v,
*.t*x
&»»*
*•**»,
::!;•{
■ ;:::•
■
■
S'.'.:
»8»
•V*
!&:g
■ «};%*'
Zii«% SJ '
X
.
OHM
iwpsi
■
■***••«»
*,♦*«*■?
*i*«*;j
■
I
I
J***. : *jfc* ■
»•**•»*
* sv;vs
*** L« »
wap;
‘X- f. -
.
£***»
f *t*i
ijk.
:*U *
*;»
* 9
tft
|M *t **. •
■*#/» <»
/». » f *
•?•***.
>*,**» * /#.
\aps3
*****
►«** v s**.
*l*l* t
.., « -
H ■
MS®
i sw
■■'ol
r ia
, v«»>
■ .i?
*. v
\**e#
im
*/l*t
/
Sectional view
depicts actual
thickness of
880 x 120 m/m
Dunlop Three
Ribbed Cover.
Varied Conditions
of Motoring :: ::
call far different types of
covers. The range illus-
trated suits all requirements.
A glance at the sections
shows great thickness of the
highest grade materials, and
tells why these White Tread
Australian - made Dunlops
give such exceptional wear.
Our Price List reveals the
fact that these big mileage
covers cost less than im-
ported covers. Thousands
of Motorists are using Dun-
lops and getting splendid
service—at a low cost. ARE
YOU ONE OF THEM? IF
NOT—WHY ?
Dunlop Rubber Co., all States &N.Z.
STANDARD
GROOVED
RUBBER ::
NON-SKID—
THE MOST
EFFICIENT
MADE.
mi
in
g


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
doe 3 NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE'S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, a 3 it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST—a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
H)
UrS
r-
.v
t
I
SV:
14.
<-e.y.^.Tw.L
I ilCfi 2/6 and 4/6 (doublesize)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to —
w. <O. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Bran :h Offices—
Sydnej N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Wart” : One of the secrets of the great
guns which did such good work for Germany
at the beginning of the war was that they
contained 3 to 4 per cent, of molybdenum.
Molybdenum steel allowed the Huns to cut
down the weight while increasing the
strength. It is estimated that the increased
cost of 25 per cent, increased the useful life
of the gun 2000 per cent. How much of
the molybdenum came from Australia, I
wonder. I have a handful of molybdenite
specimens left with me 10 years ago by a
gentleman with a German name who offered
to find a market for all I could get hold
of. The same Hun bought from me several
’weights of osmiridium, which is now prob-
ably helping to tip the trembler blades
and screws of Germany’s aeroplane and
Zeppelin engines. Billy Hughes and
the other people who fish for the
votes of the ignorant curse the Germans
for getting the metal trade. Rubbish!
The proper people to throw bricks at are
the British for their deadly dullness. I
sold to the German, for instance, because
he came to me with offers. No Britisher
ever offered me anything.
* * * • *
“F.N.T.”: Spuds are being planted in
English parks, according to “Viator” (B.
15/2/’l7), because they “won’t travel in a
state of suspended deadness,” while “the
refrigerator won’t persuade Murphy to
keep.” Murp. ivill travel—not in the re-
frigerator, but in an earth “clamp” excluding
the light and air. Where does “Viator”
think he got the spuds that were served
with the roast beef last time he crossed the
Bay of Biscay, bound for Port o’ London?
But it pays better to ship other fruits, such
as wheat and wool.
* * * *
“P.X.” attends a funeral:—
After keeping its sign up for close on 50 years
the Beehive, at Bendigo, throws in its license. Where
the Beehive left off and the Bendigo Stock Exchange
began, thousands of people who have been there
would have been puzzled to say. What stirring
times the old place passed through ! What booms it
wet with gold-top, and what gin has been swallowed
with the bitters! Once nearly everything that
happened at Bendigo happened at the Beehive. “At
the Beehive”—it was the heading tinder which E. A.
Banks, the kindliest old “Mosquito” that ever
buzzed, wrote his weekly column of gossip and
philosophy. In the vestibule you could find George
Lansell and Dyason and occasionally Dr. Atkinson
and Mueller and the plucky Boyds and all the Fat
men of Bendigo who mostly would have been fatter
if they hadn’t spent their thousands in poking down
a mile or more in their prodigious faith in the ever-
lastingness of the field. And, behind, rubbing shoul-
ders with the owners as he came, in and out, Peter
Phillips, the one-armed secretary of the “Hay Hem
Hay,” the tenderest-hearted old man who ever
growled habitually, the bear in a remarkable menag-
erie—topped by landlord Harry Burridge’s talking
canary. Bendigo mining hardly knows what a strike
is; and it might not be too much to say.that that
was because owners and miners met at The Beehive,
and yarned in the vestibule and found that they were
the same sort of men under the skin.
* . * * *
“X.” : I wanted a little ready cash the
other day, so I wrote to one of the well-
known firms of moneylenders from whom I
had received circulars with copies of testi-
monials furnished by grateful clients* I
wanted £2O for two months, and this is what
I got. They posted me an application form
asking, as they were quite justified in doing,
every - possible question in regard to my
financial state, where I bought my furniture,
whether I had paid my rent, and so on, not
forgetting whether I was likely to be under-
taking military or naval service. If, after
studying my replies, they approved of my
application, they would be pleased to for-
ward papers for me to sign, when they
would be agreeable to advance me £l6 10s",
charging me £3 10s. interest. For this I was
to pay £lO at the end of one month and £lO
at the end of the second month. I would
thus hold £l6 10s. for one month and £6 10s.
for another month, which averages £ll 10s.
per month. The interest proposed, £3 10s.,
in turn averages £1 15s. per month, or £2l
per annum. Working on these averages the
annual interest on the' sum of £ll 10s. is
£2l, which works out at about 182 per cent,
per annum, giving the usurers the benefit of
the fraction. I told my creditors to wait.
It is easier to owe.
“Silas Snell”: This is something in the
nature of a law report. It was a County
Court case. Two jackasses on a 140-acre
estate in Gippsland had pounced simultane-
ously on a worm. The worm was a true
Gippsland specimen, not as large as a conger-
eel, but big enough to provide all the worm
two reasonable laughing jacks would be
likely to need. Each bird fastened on
to an end, and began to swallow greedily.
They met half-way, and then commenced a
tug-Of-war, with the result that each bird
slid off his section of the worm, and went
end-over with a flutter of wings and some
mutterings of disgust. Again the birds dived
on the worm, gobbling to break all records.
Again they met half-way, each having swal-
lowed his allotted span. Once more there
was an energetic pull on the part of both
claimants, each desirous of dispossessing the
other of his half-interest in the delectable
insect, and once more the birds slithered off
their slippery prize, and turned empty away,
in a manner of speaking. Five times the
operation was repeated, and the matter was
still in dispute. But by now a small con-
gregation of birds, including a most inquisi-
tive magpie, had formed round the centre of
argument, and were watching the contest
with interest and some little arguments on
the points of law and certain precedents
bearing on the case. The kooks had met
again, ligatured by the worm. They pulled
for the sixth endeavor, when suddenly the mag-
pie, who had assumed a prominent judicial
position, slipped forward, and delivered judg-
ment. lie snapped the worm sharply between
the contending beaks, and severed it at a
blow. The tugging kooks went keel-over
again, but each in possession of his just and
legal proportion of the property in dispute.
The kooks came up smiling, there were
mutual congratulations, and the court dis-
persed, leaving everybody satisfied. As a
police-magistrate Solomon could have given
no points on legal administration to that
business-like ’pie.
“Marboc”: Pretty cocky knows another
trick besides the one of partly filling wheat
bags with soil. Down at a N. S. Wales
border town Bill Wheatsheaf had drawn his
load on to the weighbridge, and when the
weigher went into his office Bill slipped
round to the far side of the load and grabbed
the lugs of a bag. The weigher wondered
why the indicator kept bobbing up and down
till, looking through the window, he saw
Bill’s legs dangling. When Wheatsheaf
came rotind for his ticket the weigher handed
it to him without a word. Later on he
went to the buyer’s agent and told him the
whole trick, adding, as an afterthought,
‘What weight do you think Bill is?” “Oh,
about 12 stone, 1 should say,” said the
agent. “Twelve stone! That’s 1681 b., isn’t
it? Well, I’ve allowed a fair margin. I
docked him 3cwt.”
* * * *
“Bluebeard” : Paddy’s Market, in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, has lost by retirement
William Joseph Tiller. William Joseph was
born in Sackville-street, Dublin, learnt the
picture-framing trade at Islington, and
arrived in Melbourne on Cup day, ’79, to
begin his life-work of supplying the suburbs
with mirrors framed in plush and oleographs
of kings and queens in coronation robes. The
old man keeps on his factory, as the air of
Heaven would be unbreathable if it were not
tinged with the scent of glue and gold paint.
* * * *
‘Trallwm” : The gentle slum-maker. An
advt. came into us the other day for the sale
of one of the most glowingly-described
worker’s home-properties ever offered by auc-
tioneer. Its wonderful advantages filled a
double-demy sale-bill. Then at the bottom,
in shrinking bashful 10-point roman, was
this sermon in type: ON LAND 15ft. by
42ft. Three good rooms, all Conveniences,
land 15 by 42 !
“F.T.”: To lots of people a rose by a
foreign name would smell a lot sweeter.
Nobody in Australia would look at a rabbit-
skin “fur”; but call it “lapin fur” and—
why not? Anyhow, a line is being tried with
the French moniker, and business is re-
ported “splendid.”
“Yarra Ben” : They are making good use
of their mayor at Wonthaggi (Vic.). The
borough council recently appointed the
wearer of the rabbit-skins a debt-collector,
authorising him to interview a defaulting
ratepayer who owed £7O. His Nibs didn't
get the cash, but he got a pretty good pro-
posal from the debtor to pay at the rate of
30s. a week. Another instance of “Money
makes the mayor to go.”
Adelaide is only just realising the possi-
bilities of the parts about Victoria Square.
It is the very centre of the city. But the
early settlement was necessarily on the city’s
northern boundary, for the sake of the
Torrens water. Also, the road from the
Port came in that way, and presently a Port
railway meant a station, which drew in all
the other subsequent lines. So business all
settled down near the northern boundary.
The reaction is coming now. Chas. Moore,
the Ulsterman (just dead, unfortunately),
declared war on the Bundle-street drapers
by building a palatial place running from the
Supreme Court to the Central Market, and
others are doing, their best on a smaller
scale. A cut just made behind the G.P.0., by
the removal of a timber-yard, lets daylight in
on a nest of comfortable vine-clad cottages
there of great age ; and that means a large
expanse of land within a few yards of King
William-street, only waiting a far-sighted
builder.
* * * *
Mutton took to wings in Maoriland the
other day and made the highest flight on
southern record. At Fordell, Wanganui, a
line of 750 Romney “flock” ewes brought the
staggering price of 645. 6d. per head.
“Panhandle Pete”: We had been fed for
months on tasteless English jams, and Mace-
donia was littered with tins we had not had
the courage to finish. Then all of a sudden
we started to get Australian stuff, and the
blanky of the English Tommy at being “able
to taste the blanky. apricots in the blanky
jam” was the sweetest music I had ever
heard.
Informative item from the Akaroa Mail :
(M.L.) -
Barry’s Bay factory, which had been receiving
1900 gallons of milk per day before the heavy rain,
is now receiving a daily supply of 2300 gallons. The
daily supply at Okain’s factory has also increased by
some 300 gallons.
No wonder the heavens weep !
* * * *
“Mimosa”: A certain Barcoo shanty is
well known for the number of raffles and
sweeps it gets up. The members of the
household have amazingly good luck in these
gambles—so good that the old hands won’t
bite. A big sweep was recently got up on a
Southern race, and a jackeroo was' caught
in a weak moment and persuaded to take a
ticket. “Yes; put my name down, and I’ll
give you the money later.” A month or so
elapsed, and the trustful investor happened
to meet one of the family in town. “Hullo!
How’d I get on in that sweep?” “Oh, didn’t
you know? Mother won the first prize.
Ain’t she lucky? Me brother Alf got the
second prize and my cousin Gwen the. third.
Ain’t they lucky?” “They’re lucky, all
right!” muttered the mug. But the voluble
young lady, continuing, said: “Oh, Mr.
Tally, you haven’t paid for your ticket yet,
if you remember.” “That so?” grinned
Tally. “Ain’t I lucky?”
The war has altered a host of things, and
the peace may alter more. For instance,
many of the aviators will decline to settle
down to be earth-worms. A lot of them
will want to follow Basil Watson’s example
and carry the mails, and when you are
able to post a letter in Sydney in
the morning and have it delivered in
Melbourne the same afternoon, or send
a line from Brisbane on Tuesday which
will catch the mail-boat leaving Adel-
aide on Wednesday, the public will insist
on having its letters carried that way. By
that time the wireless and the telephone
will both be in much greater use; and half
the loan money sunk in, the post and tele-
graph department will be represented by
“scrap.” But the debt will be as good as
new; because the politician insists on
assuming that every public work is ever-
lasting and no sinking fund is therefore
needed.
“John Dory’s” kettle of fish : —•
N. S. Wales State trawlers crawled out of Wool-
loomooloo Bay (Sydney) one day lately after being
laid up for some weeks while a lovely row raged fore
and .aft. There are nine positions for engineers on
the three craft, and the argument was as to whether
the nine should be supplied by the Marine Engineers’
Ass. or by the Engineers’ Ass. Just prior to this
uproar the boats were rusting for months while a
dog fight raged as to who was to appoint the masters.
Meanwhile all hands gracefully drew full pay, just
as they did while they wrangled about the engineers.
Likewise, during the campaign the superintendent
and the supervisor and the marine superintendent
and the secretary, 14 clerks, 17 wharf-hands, 25
cleaners, 35 carters, 45 shop-hands and 55 sundries
all lifted full pay. The cooks are now expected to
come out to decide whether the three slushies shall
be supplied by the Federated Cooks and Stewards’
Union or the Amalgamated Cooks and Pantrymen,
or the Marine Cooks, or by Cook’s Statue. And when
we get a State ferry—mother of Neptune!
“Ham”: Is this anything of a record?
This good Billjim (although he was born
in England) served eight years in the navy
and is now with the A.I.F. His mother,
young brother and two sisters are working
on munitions and his two elder brothers
ar flinging lead about in France. The only
one of the family not doing a bit is the
father. His only excuse is that he was
drowned at sea 20 years ago.
“Joe B.”: Consider Private Frederick
Clark, of St. Ivilda (Vic.), aged (of course)
45, returned soldier, married seven times,
with a tally of 25 children, 11 of whom are
serving at the Front. This Father of Young
Australia is now enjoying the breezes of
Hobson’s Bay, and getting back some of his
lost strength before, as he hopes, facing the
Hun again.
G. P. Doolette, mining man in London,
has sent a picture to Adelaide Art Gallery
as a practical remembrance of the city where
he once had a tailor’s shop. It is a study
of two big St. Bernards on a hearth in a
stone-floored, red-rugged hall. The French-
man George Fauvel did it, and it earned
him a medal in the Paris Salon.
The late Rocky Whelan, who was hanged
at Hobart in 1855, and left half a dozen
caves in various places for the benefit of
tourists, lost his life over a pair of boots.
Rocky, who graduated at Norfolk Island,
developed a habit, after he got loose in the
Speck, of sneaking up behind unsuspecting
travellers, shooting them in the back, and
then robbing them. He made away with
half a dozen in this pleasant manner, but
none of them could supply him with
boots to fit his feet, which were out-
sizes. So he had to go into Hobart to get
a pair ; and as he was passing up Elizabeth-
street a policeman who had been at Norfolk
Island and had known Rocky there, spotted
him. He called another, and they shad-
owed Whelan to a bootshop. Rocky was
an exceptionally powerful man, but the con-
stables waited till he was pulling on a boot
and then, taking a mean advantage, rushed
him. .
Australia lost a future guardsman the
other day when Clyde Avery, a boy of 11
who stood sft. llin. in his socks and weighed
list., was run over and killed by the timber
waggon he was driving downhill at Eulah
Creek, near Narrabri (N.SW.). The young
giant tried to jump from the seven-ton load
of logs on to the shafts to steady his team,
missed his footing and
“Billy B.” : Where is that man who was
bellowing the other week in The Bulletin
for the suppression of what he called “for-
tune-tellers” ? Let him advance and I will
read to him Zadkiel’s . Almanac and
Ephemeris. On thfe day that I write this
(Feb. 28) I turn to the same date in Zad..
1910, and these are the warnings I receive:
The Kaiser will experience unexpected opposition
to his projects, and insidious enemies will be plot-
ting against him. It would be well for him to avoid
travelling abroad and to run no avoidable risks of
any kind.
Very well; Wilhelm travelled abroad via Bel-
gium, and if anybody desires to swap risks
with him he can have my share of them. But
we’ll pass that and come to the month in
which the war broke out —August, 1914. In
that month, 1910, Zad. got this off (page
33 of his Almanac)
Mars on entering Virgo is in conjunction with
Mercury and the Moon on the 6th day of this
month, and both [characters unreproducable—one
looks like a sheep brand and the other is a new
species of fantod] are in parallel declination with
Regulus. This is ominous for Turkey, in which
country a martial, if not a discordant, spirit will
soon be roused and one difficult to allay. In fact,
the outlook will shortly be serious for Austria and
Greece as well as Turkey, and great efforts on the
part of the peacemakers will be needed if bloodshed
is to be avoided. Paris will be greatly excited.
Now, then, scoffer!
HAWKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dust, dust, dust and a dog—-
Oh! the sheepdog won’t be last,
Where the long, long shadow of the okl bay horse
With the shadow of his mate is cast.
A brick-brown woman with her brick-brown kids,
And a man with his head half-mast,
The feedbags hung and the bedding slung;
And the blackened bucket made fast
Where the tailboard clings to the tucker and things—
So the hawker’s van goes past.
N.s.iv.
HENRY LAWSON.


i
is®
ISai
V.
&
mm
I
Ev
Vfk
*
B.T.H.
MKZDa
EFFICIENT!
BRILLIANT!
DURABLE!
The Light that Will Not Fail
sdg
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
citY 3M0 H (°5 N nnls). Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins •& Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents —
Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd.. Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold half-round Jtsracelet
with Safety Chain, plain or engraved, 25/-, 30/-
£2, £2/10/-
Isct, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-, £4.
CHARMING GIFTS
Vi
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Snap Padlock Bangle.
£2/10/-. Others, 25/-, 30/-, £2, £3, £3/10/.;
15ct, £3, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, or Pearls and Turquoise,
25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, extra-heavy, richly en-
graved, 30/-. Isct., 50/-;
Plain, with Initials engraved,
tame price.
IK
lii
m
A. Saunders’ Hunting Keyless
Lever, 30/-. Extra-quality Silver Oases
and Works, £2/-, £2/10/-, £3,
**£/10/-, £4, £5, £6, £7/10/-.
r.olled Gold Cases, 10 years’ guarantee,
£2/15/-; 20 years’, £4/4/ -; 25 years’,
£5/5/-, £6/6. Solid Gold, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Cluster King,
set pure double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-;
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
Larg-er Diamonds,
£l5, £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Sig-
net Ring,
25/-.
15ct., £2.
18ct., £2/10/-
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold
Cluster Drop
Earrings, set pure
double-cut Diamonds,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold
Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, £5/10/-.
Other styles, £3/10/-, £4, £5,
£6, £7/10/-, £JO.
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Sovereign
Purse, 40/-; extra
heavy, 50/-. 15ct.,
£3/12/6. Gold-filled,
17/6. Silver, 7/6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Pendant, set
Pearls and Amethyst,
22/6.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold Neck-
lace, set Diamonds
and Pearls,
£B/10/-
All Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Half-hoop
Ring, set pure
Diamonds,
£3/10/-
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Red
Stones, 30/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set two
Double-cut Dia-
monds and one
Pearl, Oval setting,
£2/15/-
3 Diamonds,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set
three Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A Saunders’
15ct. Gold Claw
Ring, set Austra-
lian Redstone,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Souvenir Pen-
dant, 10/6; with
Enamel Shield, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Two-bar
Brooch, set Diamond and four Rubies,
25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Sleeve Links,
handsomely ;ngra v e d,
20/-. 15ct. Gold, 35/.
A. Saunders’ Keyless Lever Watch,
15/-. Our Special Non-magnetic Lever,
20/-, 25/-, 30/-. Extra-quality Cases
and Works, £2, £2/10/-, £3. All
guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George St., Sydney (Opp. Railway Station).
Doy
Then lose no time in buying a tin of
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Are made from a formula of the Liverpool Throat
Hospital. They are antiseptic and kill the germs.
EVANS, SONS, LBSCHBR & WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
\
Grown on British own€d plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat,
u Shipped in British vessels. H
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
Evans Sons Lescher A Webb, Ltd. Liverpool A London.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50.
engraving's, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Sd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
10 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen tiie
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op The Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). .Toys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
of ti-ie Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. ’God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing, and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,.
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
■
HT BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-B’itting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1 /-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator,' 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
NOAIE CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage,- which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying:. more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SRF'Established 25 Years.
ONIiY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs’ 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all' at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


Government Notices,.
Department of the Navy.
Melbourne, February, 1917.
Electric Lighting.-—Henderson Naval
Base. .
AMENDED NOTICE.
will be received, subject to
J- the conditions of tender, until 12
noon on Monday, April 30, 1917. for the
supply of Electric Lighting, High Tension
Apparatus and Electrical Motors, for Hen-
derson Naval Base.
Tender form, specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application at the office of the
Director of Navv Contracts, Navy Office.
Melbourne; and at the Naval Staff Offices.
Brisbane, Edgeeliff (Sydney), Birkenhead
Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to he indorsed “Tender for Elec-
tric Lighting” on top left-hand corner of
envelope, and addressed to the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy office, Melbourne; or
to the Director of Navy Contracts, care of
the above-mentioned addresses, as the case
may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy.
Melbourne, February 15. 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Machine
Tools for Flinders Naval Base.
AMENDED NOTICE.
TENDERS are invited, subject to. the
conditions of tendering, until 12 noon on
Monday. April 23, 1917, for the supply of
Machine Tools for Flinders Naval Base.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application at the office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne ; General Manager 11.M.A. Naval
Establishments, Sydney; and at the Naval
Staff Offices. Brisbane, Birkenhead, Hobart
and Fremantle.
Tenders to be indorsed “Tender for
Machine Tools, Flinders Naval Base,” *on
top left-hand corner of envelope, and addres-
sed to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne; or to the Director of
Navy Contracts, care of one of the above-
mentioned addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 2nd March, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Timber to the
Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
Amended Notice.
TENDERS are invited, subject to the con-
ditions of tendering, until Twelve Noon
on Wednesday, 28th March, 1917, for the
supply of Teak to the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application to the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
General Manager, Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island. Sydney ; and at
the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birken-
head (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Tim-
ber, Cockatoo Island,” on top left-hand
corner of envelope, and addressed to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; or the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, care of one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
forms, which may be obtained as above.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Business Notices.
<?
sd
AFTER
FOR
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(dPILLfIRINE
The results obtained from the
use of CAPILLARINE as a
Moustache grower are regarded as
wonderful by all who have ex-
perienced its merit. It is a
genuine Moustache producer.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AIIREN,
Established over SO Years.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
Teach your boy to train his faculties
and at the same time have the best sport for
boys from every standpoint.
-5*
A Remington-UMC
Repeater is a mod-
ern production, equipped with
all essential features of safety
and convenience. Accurately
bored and rifled for Remington-
UMC .22 short, long and long rifle
rim fire cartridges.
Ask your dealer to show you one or
send for catalogue. Post free.
The Remington Arms Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Woolworth Building
NEW YORK, U. S. A.
m
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for'Australia, National Mutual Buildings. Melboun
gsd
99
** ®EcK DESIGN, MATERIALS ajJTwORK? AN SHuW
A m. jl m a a a m
o*j
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
I J
m
SAXTON & BINNS’ NEW TUG “SAXO.”
60-h.p. “ SKANDIA” ENGINE.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loft us Street
SYDNEY.
Easter Entertainment
whether provided indoors or out —in the home or by the camp-fire —
is made really enjoyable by the music of
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
Her*
INSTRUMENTS
The reason is that the SCOPE is so great—you can
provide just whatever songs, music or humor that you
or your friends desire.
Ufye “AUSTRAL”
as here illustrated, is the
handy model for outing or
home. It is portable and
has no horn. A beautiful
instrument in polished quar-
tered Oak, with nickel-plated
fittings.
The price is £ll
Be sure you get "His
Master’s Voice,” and to get
the best results use “His
Master’s Voice” records.
Instrument catalogue, record
lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request
The “AUSTRAL” No. 3, £ll
«« GRAMOPHONE."
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE
163 PITT STREET
CO. LTD.
SYDNEY
r
ABBEY
SHOES
are not alone stylish, high-grade
and serviceable, but they are
decidedly comfortable.
We’ve a pair of Shoes in your
particular size, and in the style you
prefer.
Abbey Footwear is made in half-
and full-sizes, in narrow, medium,
wide fittings.
We illustrate a Tan Willow Calf
Oxford Shoe, Perforated Vamp.
Price - 27/6
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR
CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
£xjf&un&
CURES ECZEMA.
Exzerma has made its name simply on its merits.
It has not been over-boomed or over-advertised, but
it has relied on the testimony of grateful users to
make its qualities known. Many sufferers from eczema
of long standing have written Mr. S. fielder telling
him of the great relief they obtained with one bottle
of Exzerma and the cure which resulted from per-
severing. No home should be without it. L o
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER, Randwiclc.
5 1-, 2/6
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
g
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.'
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
at
Agents:
Bennett §Barkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film —S to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 621 S and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
ZANETIO Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It's All-British, and economical in use. [2
©
m.
©
m
T T 7 HEX the full story of the excellence of our Motor
\/\/ Ambulances conies to be written, it-will be found that
* * the Challiner Patent Detachable Rims and Tyres have
contributed —not a little—to their perfect organisation.
ADOPTED BY THE ALLIED FORCES—you could not have a
better testimony to their value. Fit them to your car and save
time and annoyance.
CHALLINERS
Patent
THE SHREWSBURY S.T. and
CHALLINER TYRE CO., LTD.,
Ardwick, Manchester & London.
Detachable Rims
Represented by T. A. MEIRLE, Australasian Agents, 556 George Street, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
During the last two or three years the
Australian banks’ current account money
has increased, and there are now many mil-
lions which are lying at call, practically
there for safe - custody. The men who own
the money are waiting till the clouds roll
by to invest it. The banks don’t, as a rule,
use this money to any extent: it isn't safe
for them to do so. As the Commonwealth
will have to ask for many more millions yet,
an effort ought to be made to devise a
scheme for using some of these unemployed
deposits. There are thousands of institu-
tions and people who know that they will
be able to accumulate a certain amount dur-
ing the next two or three years—this
applies particularly to life-insurance offices
-—and some scheme should be possible
whereby this “call money” at the banks
could be used to finance these institutions
and people at a low rate of interest. Pos-
sibly a special war deposit might be insti-
tuted, the proceeds to be used exclusively to
finance investors in the war loan who want
accommodation for any term up to three
years.
PARLIAMENT ARY MUSICAL CHAIRS.
The most interesting feature is the uncertainty
surrounding the intentions of the Prime Minister.
The seat which he now holds —West Sydney—is
denied him. Another constituency has, therefore, to
be found for Mr. Hughes.—S. M. HERALD.
N. S. Wales Governor Strickland has not
been “recalled” ; he has been given leave of
absence till his term expires. That is the
“nice” way of getting out of a nasty posi-
tion. The whole incident is illuminating:
with his Ex.’s practical deposition goes the
last remaining pretence that Australian
Governors are anything more than a Consti-
tutional myth costing a lot of money that
we can’t spare. When the N. S. Wales
Assembly declined to pass a vote of confi-
dence in the Holman Government. Strickland
thought it was up to him, as Governor, to
get some' fresh advisers ; but when Holman
marched Wade up to Government House
and Wade said that his crowd was behind
Holman, his Ex. saw that lie had been a
very hasty Governor. Yet this at least can
be said: he. believed that he was protecting
the people from the wrong of having a Gov-
ernment which could not command, a vote of
confidence from a majority of the Assembly.
The termination of the incident shows that
it is for the Assembly to protect the people ;
not for the Governor to do it. And that
being so, why have a Governor at all?
When lawyer Irvine, hooked for England,
was making the Government’s grand effort
in the House of Reps, to choke Tudor’s
motion for a Royal Commission of High
OUT OF THE MOUTH OF BABES.
“But you don't really use the bayonet, do
you? You only have it to frighten the
horrid Huns!”
Court Judges to investigate the Ready and
Watson scandals, he put it to the House
like this :
The proposal for a Royal Commission' struck at
the very basis -of constitutional government, and no
Government could vote for the appointment. It was
a matter with which Parliament itself was solely
concerned. Charges of corruption could not be deter-
mined by any tribunal outside Parliament.
But no sooner, had Irvine persuaded the
House that “the charges could not be deter-
mined by any tribunal outside Parliament”
than the Prime Minister started to take
action in the Courts against Watson. Now,
honestly, what does Irvine think of it all?
The N. S. Wales municipal elections were
due in January, but Bumble, following Hol-
man’s lead, got his job of mismanaging the
Drain extended till June, “so that the rate-
payers would go to the poll
free from the excitement caused
by the Conscription refer-
endum” —though Conscription
had no more to do with the
Drain than it has with the
ordinary job of earning bread
and butter; and nobody pro-
posed that that should be
Suspended. Now the State
election this month and the
Federal unpleasantness in May
are seemingly going to keep the
Conscription irrelevancy work-
ing over-time, so that in June
the municipal. elector will be
still unable to give his calmest
consideration to the subject of
the removal of the garbage. In
the circumstances the only
thing to be done seems to be
to declare a day when the
entire population shall take chloroform.
Then in perfect peace a poll may be held,
and Aid. Brokenpot may be re-elected for
the 93rd consecutive time.
From Hughes’s election speech in the
House of Reps.:—
These gentlemen on the other side care nothing
for the war or the Umpire.
Mr. Finlayson: Shame!
Mr. Hughes: Except for its downfall!
That is Mr. Hughes’s opinion of the Labor
party. Now what is the country’s opinion
oFtlie patriot who, during two years of war,
was content to be a member of that party,
who left it in power while he went to Eng-
land, and who, only a month ago, offered it a
place in a Government which he was pre-
pared to lead ?
Nobody has put the Australian attitude
towards the Dardanelles Commission bettei,
after all, than old George Reid :
Australia did not want the Commission. While
bowing her head before her awful sacrifices, Australia
conceived it her duty to refrain from bitterness aid
bickering. [By the publication of the report] we
have reduced our invaluable prestige, given our
enemy a. multitude of texts, and washed our national
soiled-linen publicly to the Germans’ delight.
It was all so obvious, too —not perhaps this
man’s little bit of responsibility or the
other’s; but the foundation trouble. Britain
fumbled along with a standing army of a few
thousand men, and then suddenly found she
had to raise, train and equip millions and
put them into the field : and there was con-
fusion, ail the worse because nobody knew
what anybody else could do. Tlio one man
who had done anything had mostly done it
among black men, in remote places, where
he had learned to trust to himself, and in
the dreadful confusion the rattled nation
threw itself almost pathetically on him,
though his training to meet, the new; condi-
tions had been just about as bad as it could
be. Then the untrained, headstrong poli-
tician also butted in, and disaster followcd-
the occasional disaster inseparable from the
policy of muddling through.
Quaint telegram in a Sydney paper last
week :
Charleville (Q.), Thursday.- -A drover named
Herb Lewis is now close to the N.S.V. border with
8000 wethers from Gowrie station, and a permit
from Hughes to cross. The owners insist that
Lewis must cross at all hazards.
The hazards of shifting jumbucks about
have, of course, always been terrible. But
the hazards to Australia of living under a
system which makes the supply of raw
material for the gridiron dependent upon
war between persons named Hughes and
Ryan look like being worth serious attention
by all'hards. Bananaland, under a lot of
nioat-grablr rs and importers of foreign
beetle-catchers, may get top place as the
Nark State yet.
The Federal election has been fixed for
May 5. The Argus and the S. M. Herald
and other people who have vilified Hughes
for 20 years, and now Suddenly embrace
him, call it a war election. It is nothing
of the kind. It is an election to decide
whether the conduct of the war, so far as
Australia is concerned, shall be in the
hands of the men who have been responsible
for the bungling and mismanagement and
waste and intrigue in the past. If Australia
believes that the men who were responsible
for putting universal service to the vote;
who were responsible for wasting the time
of tons thousands of men in camp, just
at the outset of the harvest, thus making it
practically impossible to carry Conscription ;
who were responsible for restrictions on the
public press and plhtform so intolerable that
the leaders of both political parties in N. S.
Wales joined to demand their withdrawal;
who were responsible for the proposal to
tamper with the Conscription ballot; who
then clung to offifce though they had the
smallest party in the House; who engineered
the discreditable Ready business, and. on
being charged with attempted bribery and cor-
ruption in connection with the Watson mat-
ter, fought against the proposal to let High
Court judges inquire into it; who were -such
patriots that they haggled for weeks with
the Cook party over the division of the
sooil —if the people think these are the
right men to run the war or any other busi-
ness as Australia would like it run, then
they will vote for the present administrators.
THE LATEST PARIS FASHION.
AUSTRALIA JANE: “Tell me, what teas the
latest they were wearing when you
left?”
RETURED NURSE : “ Well, mostly they were
wearing the Germans out.”
Bertie Johnston, M.L.A., of Westralia.
must have put up a record for the shortest
and most shuddersome Speakership: he
looked over the mace for just one week.
The Labor Opposition reckoned, with rea-
son, that Bertie had played a trick on
them; wherefore from the moment he took
liis seat he was bombarded with more or less
insulting adverse motions, to which he replied
with slabs of May and Standing Orders.
The penultimate day of Bertie’s reign could
HIS NEW EXPERIENCE.
“You arc absolutely the first girl I have ever
kissed.”
“Do you expect me to believe that?”
“Well, you are Ilia first who has ever doubted
it.”
hardly have been equalled by the old Sydney
Parliament at its worst. A Stadium crowd
when the referee puts his hand on the de-
feated outsider’s poll would be a Quakers
meeting compared with the Westralian
Legislative Ass. that day. The Speaker
heard himself referred to as (among other
things)—well, a roseate prevaricator. lie
“named” his own Deputy-Speaker Hoi
man, who was surrounded by a bodyguard
when the Sergeant-at-Arms and a constable
attempted to enforce the Speaker’s orders.
Eventually Johnston bolted from the Cham-
ber and next day resigned.
Tasmania supplies a fine example of the
beauty of our system of having two sets of
people attending to the same job. The
Federal Arbitration Court has iixed the
wages of builders’ laborers at 12s. a day for
a week of 44 hours, while the State Wages
Board gives carpenters and other skilled
building tradesmen 12s. (or 11s. in some
cases) a day for a week of 48 hours. As
it is cheaper to employ skilled tradesmen
than laborers, the natural result is that on
big jobs laborers are getting mighty scarce;
even if they are only doing laboring work
the employees are called tradesmen, and are
employed as such, in order that they may
come under the State Wages Board and be
got cheaper. It is a bleak look-out for the
carpenters and other skilled men who have
to learn their trade and find their own tools
and then get less pay than laborers who do
not have to bother about those things.
Officialdom dilutes the “rude javelins of
fact” about the Federal fusion with a
clumsy hand. On the first page of Com-
monwealth Hansard is tabulated the per-
sonnel of the first “Hughes Administration."
This is followed by details of another
“Hughes Administration” (i.e., the nucleus
of the fusion). Then come particulars of
what is labelled the “Commonwealth War
Administration.” In a party newspaper this
alias would pass as part of the game. In
Hansard the employment of such a term is
inexcusable: and it is the Speaker’s job to
see to it.
“Red Tape Junior” : John Storey, who is
leading Labor at the N. S. Wales elections,
tickles the public servants to get them to
vote for his crowd. He proposes to: —
(1) Sack the Public Service Board.
(2) Retire the old buffers at 60.
(3) Restore all increases over £2OO.
(4) Pay all hands at least £156 p.a., or £3 a
week.
(5) Grant all increments.
(6) Make knock-off time 4.30.
(7) Allow no retrenchment.
That’s what I call statesmanship! Johnno
will get all our mob except the old buffers;
that is, he will unless Holman bids up £4
a week with a four-o’clock whistle.
FORGIVENESS: A VISION OF JEANNE D’ARC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Up through the Gates of Gold there rose a cry,
A cry of France in blood and agony,
A cry that shook the Throne;
And Joan the Warrior-Angel, lingering near
The Presence High, by grace, with shining spear,
Trembled in all her glory for a space,
And cried till Ileav’n seemed ringing with the ■
sound: .
“O Lord, it is my sunlit land again, ■
My land of laughter, tears and blood and pain,
That calls me hence once more!
Shall I not go as in the days of yore
And head her legions in the fair Champagne,
And hurl her warriors With their showers of steel
On yonder sullen foe?”
The Presence heard her through immortal calm.
Then spake the Voice: “Look down
And see if there thou do not clear descry
A Woman girt as thou in days’ of old,
Leading her hosts from neighb’ring Northern Isles
To save this land of thine ?”
And, as the Presence bade so did the Maid,
And saw, in wide amaze,
A trident-bearing fair and stately Queen,
Who swept from Anglia’s gleaming ports of stone
And, hailed by France as France’s very own,
Joined hosts and drave th’ invader on his Rhine,
And helped to break his ninefold woven line
And crush his bands of steel!
Then Joan, her eyes aflood with angel tears,
Cried out: “0 England! All mine ancient wrongs,
My wounds, my prison bonds, the fiery breath
Of faggots that were round me at my death
I do forgive thee now!
Go forward blessed in thy proud advance,
And take, to bind thee to thy Sister France,
This kiss upon thy brow!”
QUEENSLAND,
P. AIREY.


NOVELS for the
LOUD B&CK&.
A.I.F.
The Editor of The Bulletin “Red
Page” set out some time ago to dis-
cover what Australians in the trenches
preferred to read. This is the reply
of a Lieut.-Colonel in command of an
Australian battalion (printed in
Bulletin, 1/3/T7) :
"m
“There is a great hankering after anything Australian; and I
think the Bookstall Series would please Billjim more than
anything else.”
Many thousands of the famous shilling Bookstall novels have already been forwarded
to Australians on the various fronts. They are the ideal reading for the Australian
soldier-"—great novels of life in the continent they know so well.
1|- each. ALL ONE PRICE. 1/1 posted.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
The Best of Australian Writers Represented
LOUIS BECKE
EDWARD DYSON
RANDOLPH BEDFORD
J. H. M. ABBOTT
ARTHUR H. ADAMS
ARTHUR WRIGHT
AMBROSE PRATT
M. FORREST
STEELE RUDD
NORMAN LINDSAY
RALPH STOCK
THOS. E. SPENCER
JOHN SANDES
ROY BRIDGES
E. J. BRADY"
A. G. STEPHENS
HUMOR.
Historical Romances.
ADVENTURE..
Sporting Stories.
Write the Publishers, who will recommend the best novels to forward.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
iiiiiiiiiimimmmtiiiiiimiMiiiimillllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllTlimili:illlllllllllllMII
Westinghouse
Tramway Controllers
i
T
tovr '■**- W 1 "
I
£OME SPECIAL FEATURES:
Exceptionally strong mechanical construction.
Simple mechanism with minimum number of parts.
All parts made to gauge and strictly interchangeable.
Liberal rating of all current carrying parts.
Low maintenance.
All wearing parts easily and cheaply renewable.
Renewable finger and drum arcing tips.
All parts easily accessible both for inspection and repairs.
Simple method of cutting out either motor, when required.
Most powerful magnetic controller blow-out on the market.
Constant finger tension irrespective of wear.
Stubbing entirely prevented by special design of finger springs.
All connections are visible on removal of front cover.
Ample space for incoming cables.
Head Office for Australia i
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
f:
m
Manchester
imiiiiiiiimmiiM
Works—Trafford Park, Manchester. England.
iiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiitiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiii
*' -
m
}
NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS
COG WHEELS, etc.
Welding' 18in diameter Steel Cas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds.
THE DAY OF THE EXPERT. To-day is the day of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
—who is thorough, efficient and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
be conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
THE ENGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxy-Acetylene process is not abreast of the times; he is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence.
Throughout the world to-day the Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest scientific addition to every engineering
workshop, which, fitted with this process, has an advantage over the opposition impossible to estimate. It is simple,
yet wonderfully effective; its price is trifling, and the plant is portable. Whether the broken parts require to be cut
or welded at the bench or by the roadside is of no consequence.
Any work of Iron or Steel welding or cutting can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It is revolutionising
y the Engineering trade. Broken parts that ortce were useless can now be successfully welded and made new
again. This, too, in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
of pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process w ill make new again:—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, /Steering Wheels, Pipes,
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Keyways in Shafts.
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published by Charles Griffin & Co., London, states:
‘‘Within the last few years welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-acetylene blow-
pipes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops. ,
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SO%
-
<V
■■■
W
'
V
11
■
f;i
Wmmm
Agents— MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street,
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H.
Oxy-Acetyleno Works, Flinders Street, >
Adelaide.


If Uncle Sam isn’t more sudden he’ll miss
his grand opportunity of redeeming his soul
by fighting against the demons of darkness
and savagery, inspireth that wise spirit King
George IV. topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilserier Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCObRUE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfliTED, RedferiC Sy^ey.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
m
A representative of
Turnbull & Jones Ltd., New Zealand,
Patentees and Makers of Totalisator,
will arrive in Sydney, on March 6, with SAMPLE MACHINES
embodying latest improvements.
Racing Clubs are advised that representative will supply full information
regarding TQtalisator and the systejn of operation.
SPORTING
Punters whu back top-weights for the
Australian Cup are shutting their eyes to the
records. Only twice in 55 years has the winner
carried more than Bst. 71b. Forty of the winners
have carried less than Bst., but only seven of them
have been, under 7st. As a rule, the bottom weights
are hardly class enough to stay the 2J. miles in good
company. This year was one of the exceptions, for
there was no doubt as to imported Harriet Graham
(6st. 121 b.) and Court Jester (Gst. 91b.) being nags
of quality. But they were both under •suspicion of
being insufficiently fit and seasoned for the passage.
KricConnolly was not cocksure of Court Jester’s
condition, and litle Dempsey, who had choice of
mounts, gave the public a good tip by riding the 10
to 1 chance in preference to the favorite. In a race
which clipped nearly 2sec. off the record the 4-year-
old mare and 3-year-old colt had the finish to them-
selves, and the lady wore the young man down. The
race was a rather bad advt. for the old Australian
blood. Four of the first five horses, were imported,
and the other, a sou of Comedy King, who was foaled
in England.
All reasonable punters must have backed
Patrobas for the King’s Plate last Saturday. For a
while the sturdy son of Wallace was quoted at 3 to 1
in a field of six, and eventually he went out at 9 to
4._ There was no visible reason for supposing that
Patrobas was likely to lose this two-mile race. The
brilliant Aides and Colbert had happened to beat
him in a fast-run 12-furlong go on the Thursday,
whereas Patrobas had narrowly defeated Aides over
10 furlongs on the previous Saturday. Also Wolaroi
and Lavendo had run a brilliant mile, after cutting
up badly in the Leger and Newmarket respectively.
But the fact remained that of all these uncertain
performers Patrobas was the least uncertain, and the
only one that had proved himself fully equal to a
two-mile race. Had the pace been hotter Patrobas
would surely have won the King’s Plate quite easily.
As it was he took the lead at the distance and
outstayed Wolaroi. By the way, the running of
William the Silent in this event suggested that the
unlucky little chestnut is recovering his lost form.
But he wasn’t. He went lame instead.
* * * *
Woorak was beginning' to go off and
Wolaroi to improve towards the end of the V.R.C.
meeting. It looked that way, anyhow. In the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes Wolaroi showed considerably better
form than he exhibited in the Leger. His win over
Lavendo was a really good performance. Woorak,
who had been backed down to 10 to 9 on, was badly
beaten off. The little fellow had been having too
much. Wolaroi started in the Leger at 5 to 4 on
in a field of five, and for the first time in his life
was ridden behind. On being asked to move out of
that position the colt seemed to reckon it was a fair
thing to remain where he was, but at the end he
scrambled in third. William Brown’s pair, Colbert
and Thana, who had been racing at Moorefield a
week before, captured first and second money. They
were backed at 10’s —or, rather, Thana was for a
little, and when Colbert arrived in the lead, follow-
ers of the stable had difficulty to prevent themselves
falling down dead. These nags vyill be after some of
the w.f.a. races at Flemington, ahd anyone who takes
the St. Leger running as a guide may win a million.
But the chances are that he won’t.
Still, Colbert may be a better colt than a lot of
people think. His second to Aides in the Gover-
nor’s Plate, when both .beat Patrobas, was worth
remembering. The champion did not do as well as
he ought to have done in this race, and the wail of
people who laid him at 2 to 1 when they saw what
was occurring had the note of abject misery. But
they had: a chance to get the missing cash back on
the last day at 9 to 4 in the King’s Plate. This
time Patrobas ran clean over Wolaroi and Lavendo
at the finish of a race in which nothing was out to
break records. They were 3min. 33sec. on the two-
mile journey.
■** * *
Imported nags again! Polycrates and
Harriet Graham captured a big double at Fleming-
ton, and Green Cap, Highfield and Aides captured ■
other events. This success of the imported moke
is getting wearisome, and is certainly not met by
the irrelevant allegation that Australian-bred horses
are winning more races than the imported article.
The disconcerting fact is that the English-bred horse,
of moderate class where he comes from, is showing a
greater stamina than the Australian neddy; for
though exceptions may be quoted, there is no getting
away from the cumulative evidence afforded by the
racing of the past two seasons, nor from the horribly-
small number of first-class horses turned out in Aus-
tralia from the multitude of experiments in breed-
ing., One result is to lead to a greater demand for
the .English horse. That may be a good thing. But
if another is to create a change in the Australian
method of treating yearlings and to an overhaul of
two-year-old racing, this page has an idea that
matters might be evened-up so as to dip the scale in
the other direction.
Two plunging punters are said to have
lost more than ~£20,000 between them on the Thurs-
day of. the V.R.C. Meeting. One of the bad invest-
ments was £9OOO to £4OOO on Patrobas.
* * * *
There was at least one lucky punter over
the .Newmarket and' Australian Cup double. He is a
young Sydney barrister, who doesn’t bet. heavily or
often, but having a notion that a couple of im-
ported nags might win these events, backed the
right pair—£20O'O to £B. Service of a cheque
was accepted without fee.
Colonel ,T. W. McArthur Onslow put up
an unusual double on March 3. His horse Poly-
crates won the rich Newmarket. Handicap at Flem-
ington and he himself won, unopposed, the Bondi
seat in the N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly.
liiewton Stewart, winner of the Hopeful
Stakes at Flemington last week, looks just the sort
of youngster to develop into a real good one. He
is a big, upstanding son of Wallace, with the forma-
tion of a stayer. The colt’s response to the vigorous
riding of Joe Killorn suggested gameness and
stamina, and if all goes well with the growing youth
lie should make owner J. N. McArthur happy next
season. Probably Newton Stewart will be a
tougher proposition in long-distance races than his
brilliant stable companion Thrice, who appears to be
boss two-year-old in the business at the present
moment.
“0.K.” : These three horses that ran and
won at the V.R.C. Meeting may be expected to
distinguish themselves in Sydney next month, if
their legs hold good meanwhile —Harriet Graham,
Court Jester and Whitefield.
Weights for the Doncaster Handicap and
Sydney Cup have again set a lot of people wonder-
ing whether handicapping is a science, an art or
just a game of hide-and-seek. Anyhow, it is as hard
to make out the reason for some of the weights as
it is to find the winners. In the Cup the handi-
capper puts Chantemerle within lib. of Patrobas
(9st. 61b.). AVho could tell the reason for this?
For the Australian Cup Patrobas (9st. 41b.) was ■
weighted to give Chantemerle 61b. The imported
horse was scratched for that event. Patrobas since
then lias beaten the best at w.f.a. ; Chantemerle has
done nothing. The assessment for Randwick as
between these two horses looks even morg absurd
than to reckon Quinologist a 51b. better horse than
Green Cap and Secret Service 41b. better than the
Australian Cup winner, Harriet Graham. Is Court
Jester in his right place when he is put a stone
worse than Rushford and Bombita? And what, in
the name of Heaven, is there to justify the assump-
tion that Redfern, over two miles, is within 21b. of
Carlita and better than Wolaroi, Lingle, Sasanof
and Prince Bardolph? Woorak tops the Doncaster
with lOst. 21b. Polycrates is next with 9st. 101 b.
Then comes Chantemerle aa-ain with 9st. 51b. —ahead
of Cetinge, Lavendo, Whitefield, Wolaroi, High-
field, Balarang and 191 b. above Wedding Day. It
may be all right, but it looks to this page as if the
handicappers are getting scared of the imported
moke, and reckon one sort of form the same as any
other.
Bobadil, now 22 years old, was §old the
other day at Melbourne for 330 guineas, and goes
to Bananaland. On the same day his son Blague
changed hands for 350 guineas. When he was
younger Bobadil begat many winners for the Wil-
sons, and if he never does it again he will have more
than a reasonable excuse.
Gone at last to where the good nags go,
Newhaven, who started a hot favorite for the Mel-
bourne Cup in.’96 and won all the way, to the great
regret of Bloodshot, the moke closest to the winner’s
tail at the finish. After a trip to England, New-
haven was purchased by Harry Osborne, of Curran-
dooley, but failed to do what was expected of him
as a parent. About a year ago the old horse, deco-
rated with a coat as shaggy as Cocky’s whiskers,
was put into the saleyards at Orange (N.S.W.) and
exchanged for 25 guineas. The buyer gave him a
trial at his Jerula property, between Forbes and
Cowra. The funeral took place there. Aged 23.
There was actually an 1 of a difference—
also a £ of a margin. At Brisbane the other day
the bags were ready to lay Bolnoo for a small amount
at 15 to 1. The animal rolled in and each 10s. on
the tote (there were 30 tickets) yielded £42, or 83
to 1. The second favorite in the race was Boonoo.
It is alleged that a good many tickets were bought on
Bob-on by people who thought they were backing
Boonoo.
< * » *
The W.A. Turf Club has bought out the
two unregistered concerns at Bicton and Goodwood.
Races will be run at the fonnerly-uuhallowed spots,
but less frequently than in the past and under
orthodox regulations. The amounts that changed
hands over the transactions have not been stated, but
it was less than a million, for the Bicton-Goodwood
meetings latterly have been poor things.
The Gawler (S.A.) Racing Club has
adopted the new_ Exchange Totalisator, which will
be duly installed at the course by the end of May.
If the Gabriel patent fulfils in practice all the pro-
mise of the working model it will be a bit of a faper
for the A.J.C. The patent machine adopted by that
club will cost about £lO,OOO to set up, whereas
the Gawler installation is estimated to cost less than
£lOOO.
* * * *
Patrobas,, by winning the King’s Plate on
the last day of the V.R.C. Autumn Meeting, raised the
total of his earnings to £16,157. On present w.f.a.
form he should bulge the purse further before the
season ends. About half his rake-in was through
the Melbourne Cup win.
Trainers still cling .to the notion thnt a
dose of alcohol can inspire certain horses to resolute
endeavor in a race. The theory has been proved
fallacious with human foot-racers. It was tested
at Harvard (U.S.) University, with the result that
all the doped athletes thought they had excelled
themselves, whilst the watch showed that not one
of them had equalled his best record. Whisky is a
mocker as regards the human animal. AVhy should
it be an aid to sustained exertion in horses?
Most of the Sydney Chosen were wishing
on Saturday that they had been betting at Fleming-
ton instead of Canterbury Park. Mo’s run of luck
has been none too good for a long time, and on
Saturday the crowd started hitting things up again
with renewed strength. Mo’s main protection from
disaster has been to immediately cramp the odds
down hard as soon as he detects the public starting
a rush. Saturday’s prices on winners: sto 4,4 to 1,
3t01,2t01, 5 to 2 and sto 4 on. A punter
playing up a sovereign on each race would have won
£l6 Is. What are. the chances of anyone specking
six successive winners anywhere? Meanwhile Ike is
hoping hard that he is not called up for service
before he gets to Randwick. There are always
chances of a kill there.
* * * *
The race for Canterbury Park (Sydney)
Handicap on Saturday was farcical. There were
only . three starters? and backers went baldheaded
for Rue. Victoria, who had as opponents Kelso’s old
nag Chid and Blackacre, who had captured the
event on this course some weeks before. The
race was run at a snail’s pace, and that fact
demoralised the favorite, who finished last, some
lengths behind, while the other two fought out a
grim struggle in the straight. They only occupied
2min. 25sec. to get over the mile and a quarter,
without stopping for refreshments.
* * * *
Bazetta, the mare which just squeezed
home in the Canterbury Flying Handicap last Satur-
day, hails from the north of N. S. Wales and seems
something out of the ordinary. She won the last
Armidale Cup (seven furlongs) from a good field
and has been successful in many events on her native
heath. This is the lady’s first visit to the city.
She may pick up a few more prizes -before returning
to the bush. In the same stable is the smart colt
Admiral Beatty, which as a two-year-old captured
an event at Moorefield. The Admiral has again
taken up his residence in Sydney.
There was no one rushing about with
excessively large wads at the yearling- and other
sales in Melbourne last week, but the sportsman
ready to take a chance was there, all the same. At
the sale of the Tye horses the imported mare Ellen
Graeme induced one of the Falkiners to produce
600 guineas, and for the imported filly by the White
Knight—Sal 850 guineas came from the same
quarter. If these animals are what they may be, the
investment is a' good one. If they are what some
animals turn out not to be —well, something else
might have been a better bargain.
A horse by Malster from Lady Trenton
looks well enough bred for anything. AVhen put up
at Melbourne five years ago a yearling with this
breeding was reckoned worth going nap on, and
1600 was handed over for him. Then the youngster
was led away and christened Burrinjuck, and the
rest was mostly a story of what would have happened
if something else had taken place. But last week
Burrinjuck turned up at Sandown Park to give
MacShortodds a lift by winning instead of losing.
He started at 25’s in a field of 10, and as nobody
wanted anything to do with him he arrived first
with news of joy for Mo. The nag that only wins
when he isn’t expected to is one the books ought to
provide with a pension.
Two fine efforts were made in Sydney
junior cricket on Saturday—Storey’s 197 out of
285 for Dailey against St. David’s; and left-hander
Alec Mcßeath’s 16 wickets for 62 runs for Camper-
down against Botany. Mcßeath was playing in pre-
miership cricket matches in the early ’9o’s, but his
awful fielding always kept him back.
O. Asher’s bag of nine wickets for 68
against North Sydney on Saturday lifted Sydney up
top in State premiership cricket. Sydney and Pad-
dington have. each won seven out of nine matches
(the others -were drawn), but the last outright win
gave Sydney the higher percentage. Another effort
worth a cheer was Balmain captain B. J. Folkard’s
11 wickets for 59 against Gordon. This lifted his
collection of wickets for the season to just under the
half-hundred.
* * * »
Prahran bowler Blackie had the job of
the season against Mcdbourne (the strongest batting
club in Vic.) on Saturday, and came out with four
wickets for 91 runs in a total of 258. Warwick
Armstrong (76) and Vernon Hansford (45) did much
to take the sting out of the attack.
The secretary of the League of N. 8.
Wales Wheelmen struck a commendable idea the
other day. He put it to his crowd that he was
going to enlist, and urged all Leaguemen who could
to get into action with him. About 200 pedalled
up and said they were willing, and the first bunch
of 50 hustled up to the barracks last week as if
Bill Martin were on their back wheel.
* * * *
“Wart” : A. F. Sharland, mentioned in a
recent Sporting Note as the oldest competitor at
Hobart Regatta, was 60 years young on the day of
the regatta. His last performance was at the Tamar
Regatta in ’B7. When returning to the Speck, after
annexing most of the amateur events on the
Parramatta Sharland lost his sculling boat and the
trophies in the wreck of the Tasman on the Ilippo-
lyte Reef. Sharland used to train on the South lisle
River at Belle Vue, Epping, one of the finest fresh-
water courses in Australia. The late Wm. Gibson
ran a regatta there for several years, but it was
held only once after his death. One of these
days it will be revived and be one of the biggest re-
gattas south of the line, but that can only be after
the big estates, which are the curse of the Tasmanian
Midlands, have been broken up. The country round
about carries a smaller population than when Shar-
land trained there 40 years ago.-
Charles C. Acre was born in 1848 at
Sydney, and went aloft in 1917 from Maoriland.
For ' over a quarter of a century he was the main-
stay of M.L.’s oldest water carnival —the Auckland
Anniversary Regatta. Dacre saw this fixture first
when the main attraction was the Maori war-canoe
race. From the hapus of Waitemata and Ilauraki
in those days came brown brother of the old type—-
50 of him on each gun’l’—and as he rowed with
short paddles, loud yells and protruding tongue and
without any millinery, the barbaric proceedings were
something to remember. When decay of the native
ended canoe-racing, Henare’s place on the pro-
gramme was taken by the fastest vessels of their
size ever launched south of the line. Noble-looking
schooners of about 100 tons raced over a 70-mile
course. They in turn passed out, and in the early
’9o’s yacht-racing began to boom. Ever since then,
yachts built by the Logans and Baileys and motor
craft have been battling in the vicinity of Motuiti.
At the prize-giving in connection with the latest
fixture, Henry Parker, the chairman, told how he
and others once rowed a whaleboat’ 30 miles up the
coast to a regatta, and were only beaten by some
seconds. This ancient is the oldest surviving regatta
official. From the hollowed-out tree filled with
demented Henare to .the launch propelled by petrol
spells a Great Change.
* * * *
“Glial”: Doubtful commentary on what
Adelaide claims to be a world's record swim by S.
Mayor (one mile 300 yards in 26min. 9see) includes
the question whether the tide was not more respon-
sible than the swimmer. The tide of the Torrens!
The creek hasn’t the stamina to push its way to the
sea. Evidently a lot of knowledge was distributed
by that faked picture postcard, much in vogue in
Adelaide at the time of George Rex’s visit, depict-
ing the Ophir berthed in the Torrens alongside Elder
Park.
Herb McCoy and Llew Edwards met at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday. It was the sixth
collision. Two of the previous disturbances were
drawn (these were at catch-weights). From the
three on the lightweight scale Edwards had emerged
with the bacon. Weights on Saturday—McCoy,
9st. 101 b. ; Edwards, 9st. 81b. There were no beg-
pardons and very little clinching in the hard, fast
battle which followed. McCoy fought up to his very
best form, both in attack and defence. He started
off to win quick, but the Englishman met the
onslaught with cool dexterity and punch for punch,
and for most of the time thereafter made the fight.
Towards the end McCoy pulled himself together for
a great effort, and for a couple of rounds had a
margin in his favor. But he paid severely for it.
He was tiring away afterwards, and Edwards, whose
condition is alwayra perfect, kept handing over hard,
aggressive wallops as vimfully as ever. In the 19th
round he had the Victorian at his mercy, and in
the next proceeded to finish the argument. As
McCoy broke ground from a hard drive to the ribs
Edwards, with a right swing timed to a fraction,
landed his glove straight under the chin. McCoy
took the count and a bit over. He had fought with
a fine courage and skill, but Edwards is the speedier
and more enduring of the pair—and the brainier.
* * * *
Australia’s old friend Mick King turned
up in New York last month and explained that he
had journeyed there on purpose to get a match with
Darcy. Well, it might come off, but nobody who
remembers what a pity it was for Mick the night
they shoved him into the ring with Darcy at Rush-
cutter’s Bay would pay two cents for a front seat.
“Trot”: Does any decent Australian
sportsman honestly think that Darcy is getting less
than he deserved in N’York? None of my acquaint-
ance, anyhow. Let anyone imagine the U.S.A. being
tangled up in the war and Australia one day hearing
that a prominent boxer had skipped by the light of
the moon into the innards of a tramp steamer with
the design of surreptitiously reaching Sydney as a
place where he could fight for his own pocket instead
of his country, How many Australians would there
be who reckoned the visitor was getting a crooked
deal if the Government fired him out? Darcy looks
no better in the eyes of an American than ot an
Australian, and if he had had sense enough to make
inquiries to start with, could have found this out in
advance.
Gerald A. Taylor is causing Victorian
timekeepers to rub their eyes. In winning the
Shepparton Gift recently Taylor covered 128yds. in
12 l-ssec. —6yds. inside “evens.” Last week he
ran 75iyds. in 7 9-16 sec.—almost as near to “evens
as mathematics will go. And he is suspected ot
being able to travel still faster.
* * * *
According to the latest motor-car statistics
from the U.S.A., (label’s own country will soon be a
gigantic smell of petrol and a cloud of dust. Up to
the end of last June 4,932,455 cars —or one for every
20 Yankees —had been registered, which is nearly a
50 per cent, increase on the number in use 1L
months previously. Peaccmonger Ford is the most
prolific contributor to the motor traffic. His tain
for 1916 was 5P8,000 vehicles, and he expected to
increase his output by another quarter of a million
bv the end of the present year.
•*■***
“P.F.” : About the Tasmanian bream (B.
22/2/’l7). I fancy that “T.’s” idea that they do
not go out to sea in winter if they can, but that
they get so flabby if the sea-water can’t get into
their river that they are not worth catching, is a
mistake. Anyway, it does not hold good of some
rivers on the Tasmanian East Coast. Sometimes
there will be plentv of bream in the river one sum-
mer ; then when it breaks out to the sea in the
autumn they disappear, and if it closes up during
the winter and there is no flood to break the bai
later there will be no bream in the river next sum-
mer. If they don't go to sea what becomes of them! 1
Besides, 1 have known them to be caught in nets in
the bays along the coast in the winter months and
you will not get them there in the summer. They
certainly breed in the brackish rivers; at any rate
during the summer I have seen plenty of little fellows
from an inch upwards swimming there.
* * *
“Wattle” : Get on to the blackfish which
is indigenous to some of the Monaro streams. Man}
people who have sampled both reckon they are far
better eating than rainbow trout, which are also to
be hooked in these streams. With the verdict I
agree, and sorry I am that blackfish are. not so
plentiful as formerly. One angler in whom is no
guile told me that the rainbow trout undoubtedly
prey on blackey. Another imported curse 1
Anthony Hall, just dead at Broken Hill
after a tragically short illness, was one of two
Adelaide lawyer brothers who went afield to practise.
“Bob,” after being in partnership with C. C. King-
ston, removed to Westralia, and prospered there.
“Tot” was just ready to hang out his brass plate
when Broken Hill got busy. He went there in
1888, and grew up with the place. A keen sport
and a successful athlete, he was patron or president
of most things in that line at “The Hill,” and was
equally ready to referee a fight or take the judge s
box at a race meeting. Also lie was a sound and
successful lawyer, and 'the local unions had a great
opinion of his work in arbitration cases. He lost
his elder son at Gallipoli, and his own turn has
come at a mere 52.
From V. J. Newton, of the Gippsland Co-
operative Co.: —
The correspondent who biographed me in recent
Bulletin personal notes didn’t add up properly. I
started life as a pupil-teacher, not as a monitor,
and I didn’t draw £1 a week. It was 16s. Bd.
The bush school is all right, but I was never
manager of the local butter factory, and I did not
start the Gippsland Co-operative Co. The original
organising work was done by Messrs. J. McKenzie
and A. Wyett, of Yarrain, and A. W. Wilson, of
Mirboo North. The last-named has practically, since
the inception of the company, been in charge, and it
is owing to his excellent administration that the
company owes 'the position it occupies to-day. I
swung into the movement officially about a year after
the co. was formed. The' co. has had a London rep.
these 11 years. I went there first in 1912, but have
been back in Victoria since March, 1916, doing my
little bit to gather the producers into the co-operative
fold.


DO YOU KNOW HOW TO
DEFEND YOURSELF?
There is no excuse for you remaining crude and inexperienced in the art of
Self-Defence—a “punching-ball” for the first bully who crosses your path.
Why don't you commence Boxing Lessons now —to-day? Or must you first
get a sound thrashing before you realise that to learn boxing is a duty
you owe yourself? »
gsd
g
sdg
I Teach Boxing by Post.
My methods are simple, practical and thorough. You
cannot fail to progress rapidly, and will quickly
acquire a sound knowledge of the best moves of the
most celebrated boxers.
The course is very complete. It deals with every
serviceable punch, and the most effective stop for it.
You’ll find my instruction a really splendid recrea-
tion that will while away many a pleasant hour.
And how can you put your leisure to better advan-
tage than by learning to defend yourself?
ought to write for my terms and for further
information, as given in my interesting booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Jest write your
name and address on this advertisement and post to
me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
583 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
» v.' i
YOU CAN BUY CIGARS
BY MAIL
as satisfactorily as over my counter. My
illustrated catalog tells all about my goods
and methods, and will be sent to vou free
upon request.
If you appreciate a really fine and mild
cigar with a delightful aroma, you should try
my
Club Royal “Cabinets.”
They are certainly exceptional value, being
made from the finest Havana leaf.
Put up in handsome Cedar
Cabinets of 50 207-
Postage on 50: N.S.W., 9d. ; Interstate, 1/2.
SAMPLE PACKET OF 5 POST FREE, 2/6.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SAFECUAROYOO* HEaltH
BroidogJj
CWorodyM
The Original and Only Genuine.
sd
Find the Wonder Places
—the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track Go touring on
Sndim
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue " D ” with Pleasure,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
10Q-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
Pty>.
Ltd.
PATON
*039
h
&
EVERY DAY FILL UP ON
SHELL'
benzine
-4E£Lhius
EVDtrv «lERt EN
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
an<l in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simp/e Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, SJ-, 5/-.
Made in England.
RIGNEY SHOES WILL PLEASE YOU
We can safely say this, because RIGNEY
SHOES are made in such a variety of shapes
and sizes that there is a style to suit every
taste and a fit for every foot.
The illustration shows a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A high-grade,
"made-to-order” style.
Price - - 30/-
Also in Black and Tan Velour Calf.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
gsd
the rigney SHOE CO.
"The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
v 7 Ge °f8 e Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
1 at Clty Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
lpRS|Mi«
• .> -'••••
WM^i
w
3WXt&>¥j
5H
•So<j3-;v;
V
. V- .
8&OPS
ltJl
§B®
S&Stfi^TSß
!?£-!
-V-
-i$S
MS
sls&te
>v
M 8
- ri
lH
mm
I^2
■
&
-<L-<
■■S2!».
£•3
E.‘.-«;>i43W
Sr*
SEE
r*>>*
T
ss
‘W ■'Wit jjK.iP»«!
4 If
8 gj
■ZiM
SfS
-/•I
:^v
am
k
x.
<K'f
.. *®m
v-V‘i."S
•#'>
\X
1 .>•<:•&
/ .' .• * >■?
; ' 'V
' .'; ,<.•; ■'<:.:. *•'■•. ;•. •• •.•
;• • ’ '*" ‘ ... K ; •'. * "•*•■
: ;^; ; -c-^;,k t > .« ~.
til
tmt
TJftv.*
w
? eSs?
./'..;• (~a
I': V / V.
r - .... ■•>
.:■ . ‘ '.: : : ; , :; ;
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
Price 2/6 bottle
The “Stockman?
Riding Boot
1616
#2
'V
m
m*
X •
/ * ■
rtf
££#
/
v.
m.
./ •
7N
7 \
mir,
X
ylly.con*tructed
nne, : strong - fuHy- :
basoned Calf, with Elas--
tic . Sides' and Double
•• Tags; Dust and Water-
proof ; light, comfortable,
serviceable; easy to pull
off, the “Stock--
a boot that no •
Australian ho rsem an
be-without." Ob-
tainable in all sizes.
IS
ff#l' Tan Willow Calf at 18(6. DoWt fcallfc
r orders- We havi “Your” Size
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
~ “Outfitters by Mail M
♦#& .....
244-254 Flinders: Street, Melbourne. ~
mmm


©.©
“Cbey say T am
mightier than
the sword!"
“ Only the soldier needs
the sword nowadays, but
evrri'bodv has need of mt
vur / ant the Onoio—
peerless among pens."
The Onoto simplifies wri-
ting It writes with smooth
precision from first to last.
It is the one really satis-
factory self-tilling pen.
Onoto Pen
the “trusty” pen.
The Onoto is British made. It is designed to
last a lifetime; and is guaranteed by its makers.
and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers,
and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA RUE <sr» CO., Ltd.,
iSi, Bunhill Row, London, E.C-, or the
Australasian Representatives i
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK-Best for all Pens.
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or faded
hair, stimulate its growth and make it soft
and glossy with this simple recipe, which
they can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum and 1 small box of
Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be purchased at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair every other day
until the grey hair is darkened sufficiently.
This mixture relieves itching and is excel-
lent for dandruff. It does not stain the
scalp, is not sticky or greasy and does not
rub off. II will make a grey-haired person
look 10 to 20 years younger.”-- Advt. | M
Calvert's
OLICI
Ointment
is just what you may
want any time, any day
a healing soothing,
antiseptic ointment.
Keep a supply by you ready
for cuts, scalds, scratches and
chafed or sore skin.
In cases of insect bite, piles,
eczema, or ringworm it has
also been proved useful.
Sold by local Stores & Chemists.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
The NEW
EDISON
delights music-lovers
m
m
The NEW EDISON is
the only instrument in
the world that re-
creates music. It
brings into the home
the finest music, fault-
lessly rendered so that
such rendering cannot
be distinguished from
the original—and in-
variably appeals to the
most cultured ear.
Write to-day for fully
descriptive, illustrated
pri nted matter, post
free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
864-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
BELLEVUE
The only Hotel
overlooking
HOTEL, the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIOAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
Yardleys
Shaving Stick
The Stickm the Glass Case
'T^ V
I
feSu b |j£j|
\D LL?
The Stick in
the Glass Case.
The Glass Case is Hygienic (it
can be washed) and distinguishes
Yardley’s Shaving Stick*- The
Soap is made in England* but
the Yardley lather that really
eases the shave is made daily on
thousands of chins all over the
world.
British Soap made by
t V
8 NEW BOND STREET, LONDON.
V
4
S2S
/
1
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
ahout it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
sonie idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able. it really is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostoek ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Q9BOO
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sal.e at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
THE SIGN Of
AGOOD SHINE
ALWAYS SHINY and BRIGHT!-
That’s so. Your boots will alwavs be shiny and bright if you polish them with
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSING.
It can be had in Paste or Cream, <j({. and 1 /-. Sold Everywhere.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, and White.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. a. mayne herox, Manager.
The Coastal Farmers' Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. signors, serves, serves.
1905.. £4,958 Gp.e. =£36B £4,188 £402 £1,232
1906.. 4,206 6 ~ „ 432 4,126 900
1907.. 4.352 6 ~ ~ 479 3,873 900
1908.. 8,010 6 „ ~ 535 7,285 190 1,090
1909.. 9.924 6 „■ ~ 704 9,186 34 1,124
1910.. 10,144 6 .. ~ 865 10,403
1911.. 9,221 6 „ ~ 946 8.244 31 31
1912.. 12,667 6 ~ ~ i 032 11,571 64 95
1913.. 17,718 6 ~ ~ 1222 14.948 1548 1,643
1914 . . 15,522 6 ~ ~ 1446 14,056 20 1,663
1915.. 18,993 6 ~ ~ 1605 .16,681 707 2,370
1916.. 19,557 6 ~ „ 1892 18,325 1,710
Sept.,
1916.. 8,558 8558 10,268
There are two co-operative cos. in the butter-
distributing business in N. S. Wales, and
this is tlic greater of them. It lias a very
big North Coast connection—it handles the
output of the Byron Bay Colossus, among
others —and has reached a turnover of two
millions a year. Last six months, to the end
of September, the actual figures were
£994,919; and for the current half-year they
will be much 'larger. Yet outstanding
accounts as at September 30 were only
£95,194 —a little more than a fortnight’s
turnover. Not the smallest service this co.
has rendered the butter-makers of the State
has been a rigid insistence on cash payments
in the retail trade. In addition to the butter
business the co. has nowadays two other sec-
tions—one handling grain, etc.; the other
fruit and vegetables. In both there is a
tremendous field for this experienced co. to
work to the advantage of both producer and
Consumer. Steady progress is being made in
both ; and valuable new work is being done
as the opportunity presents itself. For ex-
ample, in this very favorable season the crop
of lucerne in the Morpeth district, where the
co. has good hay storage, is very large; and
the price, owing to the abundance of feed, is
only a couple of pounds or thereabouts. The co.
is storing this hay, making liberal advances
on it, and presently it expects to do a good
turn to itself, to buyers and to producers.
The eo.’s profits from all sources are held
until after the March balance, when they are
cut up among co-operators and shareholders.
The latter are well content with a reasonable
6 p.c., knowing that what they don't get in
dividend they get either as direct payment
for their supplies or by way of bonus. One
way or another they get everything that a
thoroughly organised distributing agency can
get for their produce less only the actual cost
of distribution to the retailers. That, includ-
ing bad debts, cartage and repairs and all
other charges, ran to only 81 p.c. of the
turnover. That is co-operation.
* * * *
The Equitable Building Society
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Divi- Added to
Dec., Profits. dends. Reserves. Reserves.
1904 .. £3650 £3270 £.380 £14,047
1905 .. 3264 2946 318 14,365
1906 .. 2774 2445 329 14,694
1907 .. 2431 2155 276 14.970
1908 .. 2541 2257 284 15.254
1909 .. 2364 2303 261 15,515
1910 . . 2573 2779 15,309
1911 .. 3002 2826 176 15,485
1912... 2990 2917 73 15,558
1913 . . 3568 3287 281 15,839
19 i 4 .. 3756 3344 412 16,251
1915 .. 3819 3355 464 16,715
1916 . . 3758 3300 458 17,173
A nice, comfortable little concern, making
nobody fat, but giving a good many people
the means to save besides showing them
what to save means. Pay £39 by monthly
instalments in 10 years and the society guar-
antees a return of £5O: and in addition to
the £5O there is invariably a bonus payable
out of surplus profits. For the past couple
of years this bonus has been an annual ss.
per £5O share; for five years before that it
averaged 3s. 6d. per annum. There is, it is
true, no independent guarantee that these
results will be available when the shares
mature; but there is a solid internal guaran-
tee in the shape of the reserves. In addi-
tion to the share capital in the business there
are some deposits. The next little table
shows how they have moved and how they
are employed :
1905. 1913. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Capital . . £46,904 £51,403 £53,575 £53,948 £48,745
Deposits.. 61,959 61,666 55,190 53,371 51,528
Mortgages 114,162 116,462 112,345 104,029 102,225
Besides the advances (mortgages) the co. lias
£18,683 of assets, mostly liquid; so the
security of the depositors is beyond question.
This paper doesn’t know what the future
profits of shareholders will be. The co. will
probably have to make good some losses of
principal when the tide runs out. But the
heaviest losses in such cases only happen
when a society owes so much that it can’t
afford to nurse a property which has been
thrown on its hands'and this society isn’t,
likely to be placed in that position.
* * * *
“W.O.L.”: If the civilised people of
Europe keep on slaughtering each other
very -much longer, the mining industry of
the world will have to be reorganised, be-
cause tlie proper place to look for most
metals will lie on the battlefields of the Old
World. With the newer and less populous
countries being gutted of their mineral
wealth to be fired away in Europe, that
continent after the war should assume the
aspect of a gigantic scrapheap, only requir-
ing “picking over” to furnish enormous
stores of broken metal obtainable at the
cheapest mining cost imaginable, and the
business of farmer and old metal collector
will become inextricably mixed. In fact,
for some considerable period the mineral
harvest a careful European cocky will obtain
during the process of ploughing should over-
balance the value of the vegetable clean-up
afterwards, even in the best of seasons. It
will be a fine object-lesson on the indestructi-
bility of matter and the vanity of human
wishes if the German, who was largely in-
fiueneed by the thoughts of the iron supply
in his onslaught on Belgium and France,
should be wipoo out by an over-supply of
the metal he desired to obtain, while the
survivors derive great wealth by dry-blowing
and fossicking. Seriously, however, this
new source of supply is goiqg to have an
appreciable influence on several markets
after the guns cool.


m
* >
s'S ;
AVI ■• '
'■ i . A
a
{*'•Bl
• m i
. v- .
B.
;. < • y : &. '■ .■<&■ .' V ,'■ i v ; /; -, '■ “
\ ■’/ '/'\ v-M' \* ?,</ *ssl i%J\
,- v a
« a,/ ; ' ■
«**
.
* . SSp
If :• f,
*< * .
m m? : < • s
*• -t c v
Mm
:;;i
*; ,*;
..
* ■■" w.
SMMM
as
.
Av..,.
3; • ||
<4, 'A JS
IS
. -"
.
a
. •-. ...
■
✓
-V "• *-i
i
ms;
>
'
■'
.
fV
k±fi
iff
nnaftm
r« 4
Eli
V
W 3
Si
gf?
*
■
m
I
#%
- •• •:
I
A- >
■:.j
■li '
lIS
1 es i •<• ** --
liln Milil aI-
-8 111 * ~ * s&*s&>&'
-
i \s
1
1- •• A
r
. ..
y 1/ T\jJsr.
/
~rt
om
.V,\-
a;* is
V d|
4
• ' A-. - '*U '<- , a >4. >.«; „„-
1 ■WBKBMwM
it
V •
Kr*
r * lBBilS
.
rf? '•£**£
: Ate
y
»
.. ■ \.. : T :
hHMMI
s
,\
/
1
e
mo
C J^lpor/Sct insh'ument
/or ifie re-creation,
of "j music...
"tfc ‘Houcfoir 'Model
O-
&>
Convenient ter/ns arra
,
VICTORIA: Mar
QU£pfSt : ANB: -i
' Rockhampton.
Ifis. in all ftfe!hws*ne sntftiMtfes.
90-92 .Q«<sen 3t|'t et, Bt *"
Sydney Strtit, Mor.kay Gairrii.
. ■ ... . radory s
,1-4/
Willis"•s Brc»..
:
flmdei
' '
S«e*


!! !i
r:: a
ill
sail i;
r ili
i!
:i ::
He cannot bear the sight
of food
Eating produces Nausea, Heartburn, Acid
Risings in the 1 hroat, Flatulence and Vomiting
undigested food. When he reads or applies
himself to business his eyes ache and burn, and
he get pains in the head. His mind is listless
and memory impaired. The vigor of life has
departed—he sees no use in making an effort,
gives way to despair and is tired of life. But
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at, once attacks all these symptoms. One by one
they disappear and he feels a hew man. Fishers
Phospherine energises the whole system and can
be taken with benefit by sufferers from Indigestion,
Acidity, Muscular Rheumatism, Backache, Mal-
aria, Headache, Brain Fag, Nervousness and
Neuralgia.
All Chemists and Stores.
I'* per Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
g
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
Nr * • and Powerful as the old
mode], Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
; in ! a n I.V, changed by a touch of
he finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness .
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boot:let and particulars of our Special Trial. Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
PORLICK’S
JMALTED
RILK
*'**T3. IHVW-" 1 ®:
StOANOTRAVU^
s>.
i^pa-s^S
\
;at ’ %
ceps'!
never )
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt). Keeps
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any
where. Only water
is needed.
In hot climates it is
invaluable. ji j
AVON
A TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
BeTRIALS of He
GREY-HAIRED
I€jA
2
“ Don’t wait until you are told by your employer that
you are too old=looking to hold your position, but
commence at once and use Mrs. Mary K. Chapman’s
Wonderful Specific. It will darken your hair natu=
rally and gradually, and you will look years younger.”
THIS GREAT SPECIFIC BY TRUE MERIT
FORCES ITSELF UPON THE PUBLIC.
IN business and professional life, when
energy and clear-headedness are
the measures of success, the busi-
ness man or woman recognises only too
well that the appearance of the first
grey hairs marks the world’s refusal to
recognise him or her any longer as
young enough.
Looked Too Old at Forty.
Numerous instances have come under
my notice of men and women who had
held responsible positions for years, and
who at the age of 40 or thereabouts, be-
cause their hair had turned grey, prob-
ably through mental strain, were
pushed out of their position even
though they were comparatively young
and vigorous. Grey or white hair is
not a definite sign of old age, but un-
fortunately it is considered to be proof
of advanced age by the general public.
Ihere are hundreds of men and women
in all parts of Australia who are con-
siderably over 6 0 and whose hair was
as white as snow, but who now look 20
years younger because they used my
Genuine Specific,
No Dyes or Stains,
My Genuine Specific is not a dye or
stain, and you need not be afraid of
discoloring your scalp, your towel, pil-
low cases, linen, hands, etc. It contains
no stain, paint or dye. This can be
proved by pouring a little on a sheet of
white paper. It is almost as clear as
water and absolutely harmless to the
hair. Once the hair has been restored
to the original color it can be kept so
with but very slight attention.
Gradual Satisfactory Darkening.
The process is a natural, gradual one.
There is no suddenness, and the dark-
ening is not patchy, as is the' case
when applying ordinary dyes.
None Too Aged.
None are too old and no case fails to
respond to this treatment. Of course
the quantity required varies in indi-
vidual cases, for instance, a person who
is only just beginning to turn grey
would not need to use as much as the
person whose hair is white. In every
case where the hair is grey, faded or
bleached, the color can be restored re-
gardless of age or the cause. No
matter how often you have been disap-
pointed in the past, you are invited to
test this new discovery at very small
cost.
How Readers May Test this Discovery
at Small Cost.
One thing to remember is that a
small bottle may be obtained at small
cost by those who are grey, or those
whose hair is faded and lustreless and
this may be done with perfect safety
and certainty in the privacy of their
own home. You will be able to say
that you have at last a perfect remedy.
Post This Coupon Now.
To Mrs. MARY K. CHAPMAN,
Suite 56, Falmouth Chambers, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney
enclose two pence in stamps for postage , etc . Please send
your Genuine Specific, by return post, under plain cover.
(just below G.P.0.).
me full particulars of
Name
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
Address
Stale
f.
The BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
Tlie two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Pigskin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long flans and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, Heathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle.
Freight Free for Cash to Any Port or Rail-
way Station in N.S.AV. For 3s. 6d. extra
for casing- we will send Freight Free to any
direct port in Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia, N.Z. or Fiji.
P.ING HEAD BRIDLE 11/6, SADDLECLOTH 6 6,
BREASTPLATE 8/-
If Ordered with Saddle. Otherwise Is. each
Extra for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS
393 George Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS.' No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L. Lacey (Bucks, Eng.) : Your son was
entitled to Is. per day deferred pay until he was
killed—in July, you say. Sorry we cannot print
your letter. Being' accustomed to the English way
of doing things, you may be surprised to know that
such a mere statement of facts is prohibited in Aus-
tralia as “prejudicial to recruiting.”.... A. S. : Not
much demand for that ponderous verse.... Scorpion:
Only' fair fooling. ... G. A.: The tragedy of fowl-
farming has been done much better. The other too
5ma11.... H.E.M.: One verse:—
Our Mother died there, so did Joe.
Poor Joe, poor Mother.
We buried them, Dad and I,
Bight underneath the jutting rock
Where the eagle has its nest.
Dad cried—so did I—•
And that’s why we love our valley home.
Well, everyone to his own taste... .Dunstewer: Too
trivial... .J.H.L.: “Morning Ride” too much like a
hundred other rides.... Selix: Don’t let Kipling
know. He will have an action for slander.. . .
Antony: Yes, we print stories. But, we hope, rot
quite such dull stories as “Soul Seeker.”... .N.S.W.:
No, please don’t ask us for our opinion... .P.M.:
“My Australian Girl” is a peach, no doubt. But we
couldn't possibly crowd the entire crop of Aus-
tralian peaches into The Bulletin. .. .E.G.E.: Quite
conventional. .: .Jean Duncan: No value here. .. .A
Northern Woman: Cost us 2d., and wasn’t worth it.
. ...H.A.P.: Shallow little story, and not well told.
E.M.W.: Oh, no, “M.P.A.” is much too old an athlete
and showman for that. What he did think was that
the Kellerman swim was a very fine piece of press
puffery Ratepayer (Tas.) : Thanks for clips. No
powder to waste on that eminent individual....
Munguburra: Surest plan is to write to the Agricul-
tural Department.... G.D.McD.: “Rum” tempted us;
and if our capacity was a little larger we would
have swallowed it Helen: “Satin Shoes” is better
than a lot of stuff this paper has printed. But in
these days there’s a lot of other stuff that simply
has to be printed.... Brand N.: Not taking any of
that devil’s broth, thank you. .. .0.L.5.: Don’t write
Poems to your mother ; take her to a picture-show.
.. . . J.C.: Worth publishing ? Not in this waste-
paper basket. .. .Noelle Young: Too young.... B.
Crowther: Promising for thirteen and a half. Would
like to see the next thing you write—-after the war.
. ...A.C.E.: A mere incident—no story in it....
La lien : Futile.... Spaceband : Would be unintelligible
as it stands. Tell us, briefly, what the row is about.
... . Mallee Hen: Not enough in it. ...V.K.: Not
up. . . .If.C.W.: Not our style C.T.: Write it in
the girl’s album. It would shine there.... Carmen:
No use. .. . G.R.H.: Verse not up. “Philosophy”
doesn’t get far enough.... Beano : Miserable attempt.
. ...W.L.H.: Sorry it’s your last attempt because
there’s stuff in the yarn, though, like the boat, it
pulls a bit dead. . . .J.: “Love Letters of an Aus-
tralian Journalist” doesn’t sound promising... ,L.A.:
Not up....N0 Name: “Kangaroo Cavalry” can’t
make us smile. .. .R.S.: “Financing the Drought”
too slovenly... .A.S.M.: “Wireless” won’t do. “Tart”
yarn hopeless. ... G.R.H. : “Glad Song” doesn’t sound
much more joyous than a brief address at the
W.C.T.U L.A.: A bit c rude, but by no means
hopeless G.R.M.: “Man and Woman”' dreary
A.P.: Verse not well enough done. .. .R..J.J.A.: “Sar-
dines improved, but not much of a yarn, anyhow.
lverani: Not quite M.E.W.: Not well enough
told. . . .S.A.K.: Not bad. But that isn’t good
enough. .. .F.S.: Nothing new; nothing well said.
. ...A.G.S.: Pretty dull dame, anyhow. The man
seems to haver escaped something by going 510 w....
H.R.McD.: “Legacy” doesn't work. .. . C.L.: No
use. .. .R. 8.: Send stamps with copy when you want
it 1 etui ned.... C lembros: Seems rather a clumsy
notion S.L.: One thrill:—
The Kaiser sat in flowing robes of State
And tranquillity. Then came Dame Fate
And cast a bombshell on the floor:
“Diplomatic relations with America are broken and
they arc prepared for war I”
The. Kaiser leaped in violent rage;
Sobbed on the neck of some unoffending page!
‘Bernstorff, you pig! What have you done!”
The Kaiser cried: “Bring me a gun,
And T will shoot him dead!”
But he couldn’t, for Bernstorff was well under his
bed.
... .T. 11.: That occurred at your boarding-house, did
it? You—but, there, there; perhaps it did. Why
didn’t you send it in during your first time on earth?
•• • • T. 8.: Don’t like puns. .. . Alcheringa : Sorry,
rather out of date. .. . A.ft.B.: Might have a chance
if re-written in half the space you waste in super-
fluous reflections f.J.lh : A large absurdity lead-
ing up to a little-joke. Reminds .us of a single young
man wearing a Win-the-War medal.... Will C.:‘Why
say obvious things so obviously ?... .Jack S.: There's
a lilt in your verse, but that’s all T.E.W.: Three
stanzas describing how you catch fleas. Stick to it •
they’re easier to catch than inspiration.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Alf. IV.: Jokes too' tough ; drawings too tender. .. .
J.F.S.: Yes, the paper is all right; but the drawing
isn’t.... Heron : Pun submarined. .. .F.H.: Reprint-
matter useless G.N.: Send them to the Kaiser.
. ...V.G.N.: Poor attempts.... R.G.F.: Not up....
J.C.C.: Take them away. . . .E.W.: Feeble....
J.D.8.: Could lie worse R.R.C.: Several floors
below standard Jock: Poor thing.
As events are shaping, Australia will
have to raise another 25 or 30 millions dur-
ing the next 12 months for war purposes;
and it simply must not go to John Bull for
any of the money if it wants to do the
decent tiling. John lias troubles enough of
his own. It is time the financial men of
the Commonwealth put their heads together
and devise* plans for helping to raise this
vast sum of money with the least possible
dislocation of private enterprise. Generally
speaking, the solidest men in finance are
not politicians: they are not built to wave
their arms through electioneering cam-
paigns. A helpful plan might be to consti-
tute a sort of Advisory Board, consisting of
eight or 10 men who have become eminent
in the money-making line —men like
Braddon, of Dalgety’s; Palfreyman, of the
Jam combine; Knox, of the Sugar co.;
Teece, of the A.M.P.; Garvan, of the
M L.C.; Colin Templeton, of Mt. Lyell and
a dozen Melbourne cos.; and a hanker or
two. It seems a waste of material not to
invite the help of men of this stamp. Lloyd
George did it in England long ago.


(
il
\
m
r
There is a
GOODYEAR TYRE
made to suit every car, from the cheapest Runabout to the
most expensive Limousine.
Fords, Maxwells, Chevrolets and many other light cars all claim economy on tyres. But the tyre
cost per mile is still further reduced if Goodyear Tyres are used on all four wheels.
Goodyear Tyres are standard equipment on Packard, Pierce Arrow, White and Winton Cars, the highest-grade cars
made in America, and the same supervision is exercised in manufacture, the same high-grade material is used in
making Goodyear Tyres for your Ford, your your Chevrolet, or any other car, as is exercised in making
tyres for those luxurious equipages listed at the top of this paragraph.
There is only one Goodyear quality. It is the same in the little 30 x3|as in the imposing looking 38 xsi All
Weather Tread. And both give equal service under their rated proportionate load.
No other tyre has obtained such universal adoption as Goodyears have, and to those who use Goodyears the reason is
not far to seek.
Not only for inch-size rims, but for all millimeter fiittings there is a Goodyear Tyre - plain casing, or with All
Weather Tread.
ARGYLL
BELSIZE
BRAZIER
BUICK
DELAGE
EMPIRE
HUMBER
HUPMOBILE
ITAEA
KING
MINERVA
MITCHELL
OVERLAND
PEUGEOT
RENAULT
NAPIER
NEWTON
OAKLAND
TALBOT
VULCAN
and other cars
which are fitted with 815 x 105 millimeter rims, show biggest mileage for lowest per mile cost on Goodyears. Many
of the above cars give mileage records of 5000 miles, some 8000 miles and in a few cases—lo,ooo miles per cover on
Goodyear 815 x 105 Beaded Edge All Weather Tread Tyres.
Whether your car has inch or millimeter rims, ask your dealer to show you the Goodyear Tyre to
suit. If he cannot do so, write us and we will see that you are supplied.
The Goodyear Tyre 8 Rubber Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Head Office: 231 Clarence Street, Sydney. Branches and Agencies in every State.
Goodyear Tyres, Tubes, Accessories, Belting Hose, Packing, etc., are now obtainable throughout Australia and New Zealand.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Litxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric. Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
\
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alina Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 17.
BI’RWAH (Cargo only).
Leaves Melbourne, March 20.
Leaves Sydney, March 24.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 28.
Leaves Sydney, March 31.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and W.A. ports)
•Passengers only.
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 24.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Unliking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Cn £1,198,679
RESERVE FUND £95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadnecdle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Maisk Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq.,LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq.; lion. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout (lie -Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the" principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised - Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: TITOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; I
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; lion. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 00 i
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 480,000 0 0 j
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 222,000 0 0 j
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ; j
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; AV. IT. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— AV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, Limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
' £5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: 11. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South AVales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the AVorld.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. •• .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. •. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Dospnru Fund and Undivided Profits 2.118.605
ItestJivt: r uiiu uuuim
GRANTS DRAFTS
on AuMralia, New Zea-
lnnrl. Fiji. Samoa, ftrpat
Kritnin and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest, lor
fixed periods, and
transacts
all ether usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT ...
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-BED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, >
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR MA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, oir Europe. _
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,":. 1
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and It.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specicflly designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.,' 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
liMW
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund *
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,705,320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. . MacKellar, K.C.M.U.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.C., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. IT. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office—29 Threadneedlo St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DI.RECI. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
•T. BUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
sdg
JSank ot ßttftralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct-. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
■End-Ed puE u| _ _ __
;sod }E soiDuoSv 0096
J3AO p UE ‘SOqOUEJa ||E
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
J \M E 3 KELU Deputy Governor.
June, 191 C,
DENISON MILLER, Goreruor
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. . Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after tne Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
sd
For Show Cases, Metal Signs, Door Plates and alj
polished metal* brass, silver, nickel, etc.
WVTWNVMI* V' 1 Hlfn’WPfMnTTI fJTf
iii i hliliUUUiUt tutu
POLISH
METAL
■will put a lasting luster on quicker than (
anything else. Safe to use. Convenient
in form. Sold in two size cans by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug Stores.
Look for the Photo on Can
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, April 5 and
May 4.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, March 17.
RUPARA, March 24.
MORIALTA, March 31.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent East- Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
“Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HO NO LULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
■AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia ami
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Recks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. MIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. .TONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regie
TWEED.' RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINCJEU,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also" to BYRON BAY, COl'l S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILVIAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBAr n,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence liners,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Ss. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and irom Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,Of 0 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel bj
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steameis poshes
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. Atte
first port of call, First and Second Saloon tickets ar
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, aLo
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fui Trade,
particulars on application. For dates of sailin„ -e
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, H BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially ip*
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, Ho High Hoi
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tW
telephone, and obtain information withonr
charge.


THe
“Redden-Truck-MaKer”
IT WILL CUT YOUR HAULAGE COSTS IN HALF.
The load is carried on truck
(idle, springs, wheels and solid
tyres.
\
iiSgßßi...-
-
Si
f.- /
The FORD AXLE: —'
rta jacK shaft -relieved of LOAD
road SLOOKS'' '
The “ REDDEN-TRUCK-MAKER ” con-
verts a Ford Chassis, new or used, into
a practical and reliable one-ton trucK
at less than the price of a team of horses.
It consists of solid steel truck axle with adjustable radius rods, truck
springs, truck wheels, truck tyres and truck frame. It slides over and
holts through the Ford frame, thus reinforcing it to a point far beyond
the strain you will ever put on it; and at the same time transfers the load
to the truck axle, with its artillery wheels and solid tyres.
THE “REDDEN-TRUCK-MAKER” can be attached by
ANYONE IN A FEW HOURS, AND DOES NOT INJURE THE FORD
AS A PLEASURE CAR.
THE OWNER CAN CONVERT HIS TRI CK BACK INTO A PLEASURE CAR
AT HIS CO X VENIENCE.
The “Redden-Truck-Maker” is built by truck experts, of the best materials obtain-
able, along standard engineering lines.
It provides an efficient, thoroughly-tried-out delivery vehicle for less than half the
cost of an ordinary ton truck, and about one-half the maintenance cost.
The “Redden-Truck-Maker” has been tried out in actual service by hundreds of
merchants in various lines of business from Coast to Coast, and from every source
comes the same report of better delivery service at less expense.
IT CAN BE FITTED WITH ANY TYPE OF BODY, WITH NINE OR TEN FEET
LOADING SPACE.
It is backed by a reliable company, directed by well-known men, and it is fully
guaranteed.
The “Redden-Truck-Maker” has placed the cost of a real, reliable one-ton truck so
low that the man with good business judgment can’t afford to stick to the horse.
Neither can he afford the investment and upkeep of a heavy, expensive one-ton truck.
m
The Redden-Tmck-Ma her" is easy to attach. It slide* over
the Ford frame. The Ford axle becomes the jack-shaft and is not
changed in any wan. All the load is carried on the truck axle,
springs, wheels and solid oversize tyres.
Already we have sold a large number of these Trucks and have a big shipment
Write us for full particulars and book your order for future delivery.
landing about Easter.
A little later on we will have these attachments to fit all makes of cars.
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
W. Keen, MANAGING DIRECTOR
Sole Agents for QUEENSLAND arvd N.S.W. at
198 Pitt St., SYDNEY; and Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
W. A. Sorrell, GENERAL MANAGER,
“More”in Benger’s!
When in doubt about what “Food ’’ for an ailing or
backward infant, or for a person unwell, remember there
is more in Benger's than in any other food.
Benger’s is a highly nutritive food, plus the natural
means to digest it.
# i
Food
is ready to nourish when served, because the preliminary
work of digestion is done while you prepare it with fresh
new milk. Benger’s is both delicious and highly nutritive.
Infants thrive on it, delicate and Aged persons enjoy it.
Penger’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by ckemists, etc, everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England-
BRA 'CH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U S.A.) 90, Beekman St. _ De t 6ts throughout Canada.
222 A
OIK NEW
CATALOGUE
is an excellent Guide for
Country Residents who desire,
to avail themselves of our
splendid values in Gifts. We
send it Post Free.
70/-
Wristlet Witches
For Ladies and Gentlemen
THE “ELGIN” LEVER is a Reliable Timekeeper. It
has a Seven-Jewel Compensation Balance, Highly-Gilt Three-
quarter Plate Movement, Radium Hands and Figures, in Strong,
Sterling Silver Case.
Price, £3/10/-
Covered Strap Supplied if required.
C7263.—LADY’S HIGH-GRADE KEYLESS
WATCH, fully-jewelled Lever Movement, in 10-year Gold-
filled Case. Patent Expanding Bracelet. Price, 60/-
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street, Sydney.
m
a
§
I
> -
( C|).
ustrcrtia’s
, 7irst"
iMndmill
Australia's early Windmills were costly and cumbersome, as the illustration of
our first Windmill (part of which still exists) pictures. But Australia’s first
and foremost Windmill —the “Billabong' ’ —is as light-running as a watch, as
graceful as a greyhound, is full of efficiency, and is not costly, considering its
splendid substantial construction, its many improvements and the great amount
of work it will do, as well as the great amount of labour it will save.
The “Billabong" lays claim to the name of “Australia’s First Wind-
mill* —easily first! For instance, the new system of split-bearings obviates the
taking down of the mill when after years of service new bearings may be needed.
The patent Lubricating device is so effective that the mill is only lubricated
when it is turning, and thus there is no waste of lubricant.
The self-regulator is easily first in the automatic sense, as
the effect of cyclones is reduced to that of a strong breeze.
First and foremost, its simplicity of‘construction is its
success. There are less gear parts, and therefore less
trouble. The material &.nd workmanship are the best
possible; in fact, it is “The Mill that Will."
Write for pamphlets and prices. We make all acces
sories for Irrigation—Pumps, Pipe, Sprinklers, and
Dank’s Patent Non-Leak Troughmg.
DAINKS •
Otherwise Jot\r\ Darvks £L.son Pb'Lt*?
524*330PilhS!‘ ; PAJfzJSJttS * 391-403&ourke5r
Sydney: " • Melbourne
Tools for Men on the Land—
and the Workshop.
When you are requiring Tools —the World’s Best, and guaranteed against
defects—come to. or send _ta DANES’, where all Tools are direct from the
makers to you.
You will find many makes of Tools here that are difficult or impossible to
procure elsewhere.


Missing Friends.
WILLIAM JOHIn BROWN, last heard
of by letter, written about 20 years
ago. from G-Nalta Station, via Broken Hill, is
entitled to share with other relations in the
Estate of his Uncle. SAMUEL HAMMETT
BROWN, deceased. If living, please com-
municate at ouce with P. D. PHILLIPS.
FOX & OVEREND, Solicitors, 414 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
SHEEHAN, JOHN PATRICK (son of
Callaghan Sheehan, deceased, late of
Forest Street, Collingwood, near Melbourne),
will hear of something to his advantage on
communicating with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
f> E WILLIAM CRAIG.—WiII ML
It) William Craig, son of Mrs. Eleanor
Craig, of Sandford, please communicate with
Mr. EWEN C. CAMERON, LL.B., Soli-
citor, Hamilton, Victoria.
©6e Grant Six
DURING |
THE SALE j
Only £350.
isxstfmam
K
SOLE AGENTS
Marcus Clarß & Co, Ltd.,
GARAGE, and
SHOWROOMS,
Telephone: City 8862.
162 Castler eagh St., Sydney
IN
BANANA LAND
The Coalition will have to provide a fresh
candidate for the Lilley seat in the House
of Reps. Strimm, the dear old Liberal who
has snoozed for the constituency for five or
six years, is definitely taking his pillow into
private life.
Two new appointments have been made
in connection with Rananaland’s State enter-
prises. Harry Webber, pubkeeper at Yep-
poon, has been chosen to manage the State
thirst shop at Babinda at £9 a week. He
has been in the drink business for 24 years
and has a first-class reputation in Central
and Western Queensland. A. A. Gilmore,
works-manager of the Queensland Meat
Export Co., has been appointed to control
the State fish business at £lO a week,
although when applications were first called
only £7 was offered.
One important matter was overlooked
\vhen Assistant-Minister for Justice Fi-helly
tackled the problem of lower-court reform.
For years the inquest work at Brisbane was
performed by a J.P. No verdict was ever
returned, the depositions in every case going
to the Crown Law Office. Some time ago
R. D. Neilson, who carried on the work,
readied the age limit and was retired, and
the work was divided amongst the P.M.’s.
But verdicts are not given even by these
trained men, and there is thus the time-
wasting farce of a Court delving for hours
into matters about which it is only allowed
to whisper an opinion to the Crown Law
Office, which hasn’t had the benefit of sizing
up the witnesses.
“L.S.” : The Customs Department has sur-
passed all previous red-tape records. When
Sergeant J. P. Barnes, a Brisbane man, was
killed on the Sinai Peninsula during an
engagement on January 9, his commanding
officer sent the dead soldier’s sword and
bridle to his mother in Brisbane. Before
handing over the gear the Customs Depart-
ment insisted on the payment of 2s. lid.
duty !
“Boro-Belle”: A fisherman up North had a
new home presented to him by the Pacific
the other day. Some time ago a scow was
wrecked in the vicinity, arid one morning the
cabin arrived on the beach opposite his hut.
By evening, with the aid of saplings and a
oxen, the newly-found home
had been hoisted above high-water mark.
Simon Peter, his wife and three little ones
reckon old Neptune the best landlord they
ever had.
“A.C.”: Some of the Kendall River
binghis recently recruited for work on pearl-
ing and beche-de-mer luggers at Thursday
Island don’t seem to be wildly enthusiastic
about the job. One lugger left a few weeks
.ago with a crew composed of master, mate
and four of these natives. Two of the latter
shammed sickness and remained on board
while the captain, mate and the other two
binghis took the dinghy and went on a beche-
de-mer hunt. When the white men were a
good distance on the reef the two blacks
sneaked to the dinghy, rowed to the lugger,
cast away the anchor chain, and sailed off
for the binghis’ Blighty, with the dinghy
trailing behind. The marooned white men’s
only chance to escape starvation was to
reach a small island two miles away. They
swam the distance and existed on oysters
and water for three days, when another
lugger hove in sight. They signalled it, but
were unobserved, so the master took another
plunge and swam six miles*out before he
was observed and picked up. If the tropical
North hadn’t impaired his health he would
probably have swum on to Thursday and
reported the matter to the boss. The stolen
lugger was found deserted at Margaret Bay.
N.Q. coast.
The luck of Thursday Island: —
In the far-off days of peace most of the niotlier-
of-pcarl obtained in Torres Strait went, to Europe
and was converted into ornaments and buttons; but
with the closing of the European ports the bottom
THE SEXES.
HIM: “When a woman says ‘No’ she is always ready to he convinced.”
HER: “Yes. and token a man says ‘No’ he only wants a little persuading to say. ‘I don’t
mind if I do.’”
fell out of the market, and the pearlers watched
their fleets eating their heads off in idleness, and
sighed and spoke of bankruptcy. As the war went
on and the chances of a quick peace disappeared, it
looked as though all hands were going to be dead
broke. Thirsty’s business people even prophesied
the abandonment of the island. Then somebody dis-
covered that there was a market in Japan for troelhis
shell for button-making. Trochus is distributed
more or less plentifully over the reefs of the Strait,
and, being in shallow water, is easily harvested. So
the pearlers took their expensive diving gear ashore,
put swim-diving crews in the luggers, hunted the
outfits to sea and turned their prospective deficit
into a credit balance. The evil-smelling trochus
shells, so recently considered of little or no value,
are now being shipped away by hundreds of tons,
and everybody is happy. The only cockroach in the
molasses is that they are going to a foreign country;
but, of course, Australia, being a country that has
to import its clothes-pegs, couldn’t be expected to
understand button-making.
Latest casualty list from Brisbane Tele-
graph :
Lost, .Wednesday evening, by widow, eight chil-
dren, £5 Note, and smaller money, reward. ,
this office.
The Aster Patch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That is a lady in delicate mauve,
But she’s not so prim as you think she is !
A wasp in the noon-hour claimed her his,
And goes bristling pride to some listening-
grove,
There to boast through an afternoon
Because of petals that fade—so soon !
’There is a disc where a dawn-flush clung,
A friendly color, like maiden’s lips,
Or the sheaf of her pointed finger-tips
<>n a hand that is soft and young.
Where the blood rushes as though to press
An answering throb from his palm’s caress !
.That is the regal purple shade,
A haughty prelate who governs kings.
And the bee that loves it has gold-dust
wings
And sumptuous baskets with pollen weighed ;
Where the lesser flowers their censers
sway
It lifts its head in a regal way.
This is a white-smocked chorister;
Faint, aloof as a saint it smiles,
Till the foliage arches to unlit aisles
Where flowers lie round the face of her;
And the soul that soars on a shaft of light
Is white....as these aster blooms are
white.
Gather them up in a dream bouquet!
Tie them together with magic strings!
Flutter above them the phantom wings
Of fragile moths of a bygone day,
And tell me....you to your garden wise.
Have I not seen them with Fancy’s eyes V
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 10, 1917.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The outstanding feature of the week was
a fuss in connection with the Women’s
Recruiting Committee. A request had been
made by the committee (or a section of it)
that eligibles in the Public Service should be
“combed out,” so that they might be “in-
duced” to enlist. At a subsequent committee
meeting Mrs. uyan and Mrs. Lennon
resigned, they being opposed to anything
resembling coercion. Incidentally Mrs. Lennon
has three sons in khaki. Before resigning
Mrs. Ryan moved that the committee disso-
ciate itself from the "combing out” idea,
but her proposal was lost by a solid majority.
So the State turns down conscription and
votes for voluntary service; and then we ask
the State to do by backstairs influence what
it will not do openly and above-board. Yet
our men must have reinforcements. A nice
tangle that awful little person in Melbourne
has got us into !
The only newspaper in Queensland which
has not backed up the committee of the
Repatriation Scheme is the Brisbane Tele-
graph. The Repatriation Committee has,
therefore, announced that no more informa-
tion will be supplied to that paper, and that
its reporters will be no longer permitted to
attend the committee’s meetings. And that’s
another way to win the war.
Died in a London Hospital, of wounds,
Lieut. Lionel Barnett, formerly manager of
Stainburn Downs station. He was a well-
known swimmer before the dove of peace
went to the clouds.
~ Major W. E. Markwell, D. 5.0., a young
Queenslander who left with the first L.H.
Itegt. and saw service in Gallipoli and later
in Egypt, has the unique record of having
had 2i years’ active service without once
leaving his regiment. II is parents, the
John Markwells, are well-known residents of
Beaudesert.
Mrs. J. Stodart organised a successful
trip in aid of the War Nurses’ Fund on
Wednesday night. The boys of the Rifle
Range camp put their shoulders to the wheel,
and much money was rolled in.
Margaret Dalrymple and Madge Roe, two
girls who have done exemplary service for
the Soldiers’ Comforts Fund as joint secs.,
are leaving Brisbane. The committee and
intimate supporters of the fund farewelled
them with many gifts.
Last week I mentioned the glut of pine-
apples and the opportunity to get cheap
war-time food. Since then I have learnt
that local canners have done everything
possible to find a market outside Australia.
Samples of pineapple jam have been sub-
mitted to the War Office, and offers to sup-
ply a quantity of the fruit have been cabled,
but no answer has been received. Mean-
while the Chamber of Manufactures is doing
what it can to prevent the disgraceful waste.
Ipswich lost a melodious tenor and a goou
fellow when Capt. W. 11. Nieolls was killed
in France. It was not the first bit of lead
he had stopped, for he was twice wounded
in the Gallipoli unpleasantness. Nieolls
was a Welshman, and left Australia as a
corporal, advancing to the rank of second
lieutenant before the evacuation. In the
Somme argument he was wounded through
the shoulder, and while on furlough found
time to become engaged to a girl in Wales.
Very soon after returning to the firing-line
he was killed while leading a charge.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
W. J. Overell, head of the firm of Overells,
Ltd., Brisbane, has closed his last account.
A quiet, unobtrusive man, he took practi-
cally no part in public affairs, devoting his
entire attention to his large fluff business.
Twelve years ago his premises in Edward-
street were burnt to the ground, some deaths
and many sensational escapes resulting. The
firm then transferred its operations to the
Valley. Two younger members of the family
are in khaki.
Ex-Railways Minister Adamson boasted
the other day that he had controlled the
Department “in harmony with the principles
of the Labor platform.” By a coincidence
the Auditor-General’s report on railway
finance was published the same day. As it
revealed a deficit of £610,506 during the
Adamson regime, despite increased freights
and fares, evidently “the principles of the
Labor platform” and sound finance are not
on speaking terms.
Walter Pickering, clerk of the Woongarra
Shire Council, passed through the boundary
gate last week. The old man had seen some
stirring times in his 50 years in Queensland,
having been sergeant in charge of native and
mounted police in the riotous days of the
Palmer. Twenty years or so back he moulted
the uniform and set up in Bundaberg as a
commission agent.
“Warrego Bill”: For the big-shout com-
petition let me enter Woodhatch, who kept
the Royal Hotel at Adavale in ’BB. Wood-
hatch disposed of the pub at a handsome
figure. On the day of quitting he called in
all hands to imbibe at his expense. The
round-up was about 250. They started Oi!
champagne and went right through the stock.
The fame of Innisfail (once Geraldton)
as the wettest corner of Queensland is almost
obliterated. Three places had heavier falls
than that moist retreat in the last 12 months,
and Gharleville, in the heart of the alleged
dry belt, came out with 1096 points for the
year, as against a 40-year average of 300
points.
For 35 years Maryborough log-rollers per-
suaded Governments to spend tens of thou-
sands in dredging the Mary flats, on the plea
that a splendid river-port would eventuate.
Now the State has ladled out £50,000 for a
pier at Port Maryborough (Urangan), which
makes Maryborough as a port a thing of the
past. Maryborough, Rockhampton, Towns-
ville —what a trio of tragedies for the
Queensland Treasury!


The Little
25 Miles per Gallon —
Here is a light, powerful, economical car that offers you every worth-while advant-
age found in the highest=priced cars, its low price includes complete equipment.
The new=series Overland is superior to any other car in its price class both in appear-
ance and performance.
It excels in power—makes hills seem almost like level road.
In looks—the body is finished in a beautiful light grey.
In economy—what other car of its size and power will average from 25 to 30 miles on
a gallon of petrol?
In comfort—the seats are deep, soft and roomy. The rear springs are of the famous
shock-absorbing cantilever type. The tyres are 4=inch.
What’s more—this Overland is completely equipped. Not a thing to buy extra You
get the finest Auto=Lite electric starting and lighting system, Tillotson carburetter, mag=
netic speedometer, one=man hood, demountable rims and practically every other accessory
found on the highest-priced cars.
Come in and see this new Overland to-day. Compare it with other cars selling at its
price, and judge for yourself which offers the most for the money. We will be glad to
demonstrate it to you.
All Overland Cars have High-Tension Magneto Ignition.
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from—
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKiNER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEAT HORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
Willys-Overland (U.S.A.) Australasia Ltd., 352 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


THE SOLDIER KNOWS
THE VALUE OF “BIFF”
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Fool Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
“BIFF" is a scientific compound which draws out
all poisonous matter from the pores of the skin,
leaving the skin in a perfectly healthy condition,
to perform its natural functions. This unique
compound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
“I have used the first box and find it very bene-
ficial to my feet which are of the perspiring, ten-
der, corny, variety. I think I shall always have
it on hand as it is so refreshing to the feet, es-
pecially in hot weather.”—Mr. R. N., n.s.w.
“ Kindly send me another box, for it is good.”—
Mrs. R. 8., Perth.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
'tores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
H4a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
gsd
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
oid, gentle, sure con-
stipation ' remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and ybung.
Purejly j
Vegetable. '
CARTERS
lITTLE
jIVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Smill Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Why Have Grey Hair?
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless
recipe will correct it.
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes A
very old. home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few
nights with a small sponge and you" will
soon have the pleasure of seeing the greyness
disappear. This recipe is perfectly harmless,
is neither sticky nor greasy, and has given
perfect satisfaction for many generations to
those in possession of the secret. — Advt. [4
CHRISTIE^
IK
'If
£P£C/AL/S£
TlyfO
L/AIES
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
IS /10NTER ST NEWCASTLE
Explaining “Feminine Charm”
By Ml LUCENT BROWN.
Illustrated by PENRHYN STANLAWS.
I NOTICED a curious thing recently in
a railway train. A nicely-dressed
woman entered, and took a seat beside
me. I saw that everyone was looking at
her —staring, in fact. But
not offensively, you under-
stand. I caught my-
self doing the same
thing. It was
impossible to
help it. Cer-
tainly it was
not her
said ; “I remove my skin.” “You what?” I
exclaimed, horrified. Again she laughed, and
replied, “Sounds shocking, doesn’t it? But
I will explain. Instead of using face creams
I use only pure mercolized
wax, procurable at any
chemist’s. The wax
has a gentle absorbent
action which
takes up and
removes the
soiled and
weather-
4L
i o *
<f> (L*
cA
V>
t.
71%
y
5 9«i
«><*
u
p
S')
TO?.
rTT
7y<%-]
n
5^
S/
f
*<' r'i N
5-V?^
'Va
-/ S
V 0
<3*
>2U£
m
gsd
something about her
face and expression—
I risked it, and spoke.
“Would you mind telling
me,” I said, “how you keep
your complexion so dazzlingly pure? You
won’t think me impertinent, but you seem
to be over thirty, aren’t you? And yet you
haven’t a line in your face, and your cheeks
are quite peach-like. Do tell me how
you do it.” She laughed, quite good-
p’’tiiredly. “Oh, that’s very easy,” she
beaten outer
film - skin,
withoutpain,
irritation or
d i s comfort,
thus reveal-
ing the real
St«n
complexion fresh and'
clear underneath.
Every woman has a beauti-
ful complexion underneath,
you know. Then, to keep
my face firm and free from wrinkles, I
merely indulge in a sparkling face bath two
or three times a week, which I prepare by
dissolving a little stymol (obtained at the
chemist’s) in a bowl of warm water. This
also keeps away those unpleasant little
blackheads, and prevents ‘shine.’ ” [3
Commonwealth 4i% War Loan
FOURTH ISSUE.
MONDAY, 2nd APRIL, 1917.
Time of receiving applications
extended to
Applications will continue to be received to the above date in terms of the original
Prospectus, with the following adjustments:—
FULLY-PAID APPLICATIONS. — If lodged on or before Bth March, 1917, interest at the
rate of £l/17/6 per cent, will be paid on 15th June, 1917.
If lodged after Stli March and on or before 2nd April, 1917, interest at the rate of
£l/10/- per cent, will be paid on 15th June, 1917.
INSTALMENT APPLICATIONS. — If deposit and first instalment paid or or before Bth
March, 1917, interest at £3/14/- per cent, will be paid on 15th December, 1917.
If deposit, first and second instalments are paid after Bth March, but on or before
2nd April, 1917, interest at £3/12/- per cent, will be paid on 15th December, 1917.
All other instalments will be due on the dates shewn in the Prospectus.
After the dates mentioned above, interest will be paid half-yearly at rate of 4J per
cent, per annum.
Applications will be received at all banks, State Savings Banks and Post Offices where
Money Order Business is transacted.
Support the Loan and Help Win the War.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
February, 1911.
Produced entirely under
the British Flag ■ —
g
m?niiiii> uLM " ig
sd
§§§S
Underwear
Made in England from fine Australasian Wool, Jason Undervreat
gives greater comfort than any other you ever wore.
New “Olympic” Brand
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are
made, the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular lines.
Your dealer will supply you. Sole manufacturers
JASON UNDERWEAR CO.. LEICESTER. ENG.
TRIED AND TRUSTED.
“Many's the Razor I have tried, but there's none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM.”
PRICE. 10/6 POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Awilcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM?*
Razor.
The recruiting effort and the social dash
sometimes get hopelessly tangled. In one
suburb the mayor’s wife, intent on good
deeds and getting her name in the papers,
has been taking a great interest in the re-
cruiting movement. Latterly she has started
to bustle the officials around like pawns in
a game. It didn’t work long with Tomp-
kins. It was Tompkins here and Tompkins
there, until at last Tompkins, a returned
warrior, swelled up and burst. “Aw, blazes!”
he said (or words to that effect). “Stick to
y’r own job!” Mrs. Mayor indignantly fell
back several yards on a front of 30in., and
called for reinforcements; but hubby wisely
went and hid in the cupboard until the
danger was past. Then he came tactfully
out with a box of cigars, and did his bit
to shove the war along.
Another Australian “sub." in the British
Navy has won the Distinguished Service
Cross—Robert Alexander Little, of Windsor
(Vic.), a Scotch College boy. Leaving Mel-
bourne in 1015, he gained a commission in
the Navy and joined the Air Service. One
of his busy days was November 23, .1916.
when, after firing 20 rounds at an enemy
plane, he was driven off' by two others. Spot-
ting a fourth hostile machine less than an
hour later, he signalled two Nieuport planes,
led them against the foe, and brought it
down in flames after firing 250 rounds.
Eleven days later, Little, acting as escort
on a bombing raid, fired one round at a
small hostile scout and then his gun jambed.
To his horror he also found that he could
not climb. Instantly he dived while he
wrenched at his gun, the pursuing scout
meantime firing 400 rounds at him in 30
seconds from two machine guns, reopening
later at 20 yards. Every shot missed, and
Little escaped bv whizzing into a ploughed
field.
William Williamson, who is awaiting his
century in the Vic. Mallee, saw the opening
of the railway between Manchester and
Liverpool in 1830. He remembers how the
crowd called out that the mad thing would
never start, and also how when it did start
they caught , hold of the wheels and yelled
that it would never stop.
“Mark VII.”: I am a bit late, but I want
to put a shell through “E.D.’s” statement
(B. 25/1/T7) that Australia’s first shot in
this war was fired from Queenscliff (Vic.).
One of the guns at Fort Nepean, which is
on the opposite side of Port Phillip Heads,-
roared the warning. I served for some
months afterwards on the same weapon.
The gunlayer who pressed the trigger and'
so fired the gun electrically was Gunner
Jack Purdue, R.A.G.A., and not the late
Sergeant (then Corporal) Young. By the
way, the knowledge of the stay-at-home
citizen about military matters makes me
stagger. When I had received my mobilisa-
tion order during the first week of August,
1914, I went into a big hardware shop in
Melbourne for a couple of things to com-
plete my kit. The news of the famous first
shot had just come through, and the iron-
monger was telling another customer that
he had heard there had been shooting at
the Heads. He said he thought it was the
Cerberus engaging hostile craft. I had not
the heart to disturb his faith in the ancient
warship. She has lain off the mouth of the
Yarra for years, stripped of- engines and
guns, and acts as a storesliip and a “clink”
for bluejackets.
“Marloo”: A few years ago a British
steamer which had stranded on the South
American coast was sold as she lay for
£l5OO. The purchasers repaired her, and
after using her for trading purposes she was
recently sold for £320,000. London reckons
this the record individual shipping invest-
ment.
“8.P.”: In the Winton (Vic.) district
they don’t believe that the deceased ought to
monopolise the local cemetery ; and the liv-
ing are making a pretty good thing out of
it. Pines were planted there for ornament
27 years ago, and now £134 an acre profit is
being made from selling the timber.
Burgoyne and Co., who have a 750,000-
gallon wine vault at Ruthergleii (Vic.), are
going to make real sherry, or know the rea-
son why. They have the right kind of
vine, and lately they imported from Spain
the “sherry fungus” and turned it loose on
the casks, in the hope that it will give the
grape-juice the genuine flavor. So far it
seems to be working all right.
“Ivaree” : Y'ou can do some idiotic things
in a war of concealment. In a warm sector
near us a certain colonel had a fine battery
placed like a pill advertisement on a hill
in full view of Fritz, his sausages and his
’planes. When he was remonstrated with
he replied that he wasn’t dopy, or words to
that effect. lie seemed to be right, too, for
his guns never drew a single shell. The
only precaution taken was never to fire at
night. None could explain his luck until
a Fritz ’plane landed in our lines and its
boss was taken prisoner. On being asked
the reason of the battery’s exemption from
shells he replied knowingly: “The one on
the hilltop? Ach, we saw straight away
she was a dummy. My friendts. if you rill
place dummy guns, vy do you do it so obvi-
ously.” Honesty is the best policy when
you want to pull a strategist’s leg.
F. .T. Riley, who is having a go for Senate
Labor selection in Victoria, is a young and
long-haired Yarra Bank orator who, during
the conscription campaign, led a procession
of Antis out of the Guild Hall in Swanston-
street up to the steps of Parliament House.
He is a builder’s laborer, more forceful than
eloquent, and a very big Note in the reace
Alliance.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s wife is still living
in South Aus. After the poet’s death, now
42 years ago, she married Peter Low, and
had a large family. Gordon’s only child
died young.
“Constable XXX.”: We were searching
for the body of the old man in the river
where he was supposed to have been drowned,
and someone remarked that he must have
drifted downstream. “I don’t know,” said
one of his sons. “He was such a contrary
old blanker he most likely went up-stream.”
However, it was found that the corpse had
followed ordinary etiquette, and floated down
the river.


The happiest Easter holidays
those spent with a Kodak.
mm
. v ;
It doesn’t matter where you go or how you
spend your holidays —the best way to ensure
success is to take a Kodak with you.
A Kodak will never let you forget the good
times you have, and the pictures you make
will recall every happy incident long after your
holiday is over.
You can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour
—and Kodaks are priced from 30/= to £l5/2/=.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak— the Soldier’s Kodak—is easy to carry in a
man's packet ora lady’s handbag ; always i eady for use. Takes pictures 24 xlg inches.
Price 30/-
The No. I Autographic Kodak Junior is very satisfactory in every way— possessing
all the Kodak simplicity and efficiency. Takes pictures 2\ x 34 inches. I rice 4.>/-
The No. 3A Folding Autographic Koda* is the most popu'ar camera in the world
Used by beginners and experts. Takes splendid postcard pictures x3* inch* s
Price £5/10/-
Ask for YOUR copy of finely-illustrated booklet: “Picture Making with a Kodak.
OF KODAK DEALERS AND
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Hill.- Dixon St., also corner L-ambton Quay ancl Willis ot., wciii s »
Auckland, N.Z., and 7G Stuart St., J)uneclin, N.Z.
Yes, You CAN Improve
Your Figure.
ARK you really satisfied with your figure lines? Are they as charming as you
would wish them to be? Are you proud of your figure, or do you envy the
trim, smart lines of your friends who wear Gossard Corsets or Brassieres?
A Gossard Corset and Brassiere will improve your figure, regardless of your present
figure lines, will make you look younger and feel healthier.
Slender women will be delighted to know that there are over fifty special Gossard
models designed for
Ideal Tall and Short
Slender Fisrures
The corset problems of the slender
woman have been solved by (fossard
designers. Bounded hip lines and the
appearance of fullness at the bust,
which give the slender woman that chic,
youthful appearance so admired in this
type, are possible in a few minutes with
a Special Cl ossa rd Corset and Brassiere.
A fitting by an expert Corsctiere
involves no obligation. ,
•K
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women of Australia
and New Zealand by
Allan & Stark, Ltd..
Brisbane, Australia.
J. Ballantyne & Co.,
Cashel Street. Christchurch. N.Z.
Stafford Street, Timaru, X.Z.
Buckley & Nunn. Ltd.,
298-312 Ronrke Street. Melbourne,
Australia.
Harry Davies Co.,
Ballarat, Australia.
Drapery & General Importing Go. ol
New Zealand, Ltd.,
Lyttelton. X.Z.
Wellington, X.Z.
Farmer «Sc Go.. Ltd.,
Sydney, Australia
dames Marshall & Go.,
Adelaide, Australia.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd..
Queen Street, Auckland. X.Z.
Ideal '
Short Slender
Figure.
W. 'I 1 . Waters & Co., Ltd.,
King and George Streets. Sydney, Australia.
Ideal
Tall Slender
Figure.
r c
b'h'j
gsd


Tenders.
THE AVAR BURTON TIMBER AND
TRAMWAY COMPANY LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
TENDERS for the SALE of the COMPANY’S
ASSETS as a going: concern, consisting of STEEL
TRAMWAY and FOUR MILLS, all in good
country and splendid working order, and thoroughly
equipped with machinery, tools, trucks, railway
sidings, blacksmith’s shop, offices, stables, etc.
Short particulars are as follows: —
LOT 1. —(«) Steel Tram Line, about 4 miles,
from Warburton to Rig Pat Creek, mostly 001 b.
rails, 5 sets points and crossings, with the Vendor’s
rights under Deed of Delegation, which may be
inspected at the Solicitor’s Office.
(b) Locomotive by Fowler, Leeds (new).
(e) Freehold land and buildings, office and furni-
ture, blacksmith’s shop, stables, etc.
LOT 2.—MILL No. 1.
Saw Milling Machinery complete, Marshall
Engine, lGh.p., 3 miles timber tram, mill shed,
blacksmith's shop and tools, boarding-house, cot-
tages, huts, log and timber trucks complete, etc.
LOT 3.—MILL No. 2.
Saw Milling Machinery complete, Marshall Engine,
14h.p., 3 miles timber, tram, mill shed, black-
smith’s shop and tools, boarding-house, cottage,
huts, log and timber trucks, complete, etc.
LOT 4.—MILL No. 3.
Saw Milling Machinery complete, Brown and
May Engine, 16h.p., 14-mile timber tram, mill shed,
blacksmith’s shop and tools, boarding-house, cottages,
huts, log and timber trucks complete, etc.
LOT S.—MILL No. 6.
Saw Milling Machinery complete. Marshall
Engine 20h.p., 5 miles timber tram, boarding-house,
huts, log and timber trucks, complete, etc.
The Mills have the necessary working bullocks,
horses, harness, which the purchasers may take at
a valuation.
LOT 6.
Freehold Land, paddock 1 acre 2 roods 24 perches
or thereabouts at Warburton, on the river.
LOT 7.
Freehold land, La La, 6 acres or thereabouts, part
of Crown Allotment 16, Parish of Warburton, County
of Evelyn.
Tenders to be in at the office of the Solicitors by
noon on 14th April, 1917. Highest or any tender
not necessarily accepted.
The Purchasers must take over the liabilities of
all license fees and outgoings from the date of
acceptance of tender, and must arrange with the
necessary authorities for their approval of them
as transferees of any delegations, licenses or rights.
Fuller information can be obtained at the Com-
pany’s office at Warburton, or from the Solicitors
for the Liquidators.
Separate tenders may be made for Lot 1, for Lot
3, for Lot 4, for Lot 6, for Lot 7, or for Lots 2 and
5 together.
Terms.—Half Cash, and the balance in 12 months,
with interest at 6 per cent.
Purchasers will enter into Contracts, or (if on
terms) Hire Purchase Agreements, forms of which
may be inspected at the Solicitors’ office.
A deposit of 10 per cent, must accompany the
tender.
MADDEN, DRAKE and CANDY, “The Oldcrfleet,”
475 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Liquidators.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
"piVOU THEATRI), SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
1“ IVOII THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
ALL VAUDEVILLE BILL.
MALCOLM McEACHERN, FRED BLUETT, NIAG-
ARA AND FALLS. BELLE OLIVER, MARIE KING-
SCOTT, DE FORREST, IvEELEY AND ALDOUS,
LADY SEN-MEI.
Plan at Glen’s.
HER 31 A J E S T Y ’ S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY, including
ELORENCE YOUNG, in the London and New York
Brilliant Success,
THE PINK LADY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
BARRY LTJPINO as “EDDIE.”
Smartest and Brightest of Musical Comedy Successes.
ONLY TWO WORDS—BUT WHAT REAL
JOY.
WHITE CITY
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE SMART SET
(from LONDON).
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
-T* RIAN OLE PLAYS
1 THE LYCEUM,
AT
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30 ; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. 1). Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you've visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
If any illustratio.” appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Reappearance of J. C. Williamson’s New English
Musical Comedy Co. in
A WALTZ DREAM.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre roy a l, melbourn e.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 17.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their new
English Comedy Co. in
FAIR AND WARMER.
A Play of Temperature and Temperament.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 17;
Reappearance of Gonsalez Opera Co. in
CAVALUERIA
and
I PAGLIACCI.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
Amusements.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees.... Messrs. BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TATT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
For the First Time in Australia.
J. & N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY COMPANY in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A Play of Mirth and Morals
by Winchell Smith and John E. Hazzard.
Box Plan Allan’s.
The finest show at st. Hilda,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, 8.30.
DANDIES.
BEST COMEDIANS. BEST SINGING.
The Prices, like the Dandies, are Popular.
THE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE,
Lessees J. & N. TAIT.
SATURDAY, MARCH 17,
and Every Evening’.
THE AVORLD-FAMOUS
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
The only entertainment of its kind that has toured
the universe.
3/-, 2/- & I/-.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
REMEMBER!
HORROCKSES’
i
s
11*2
thb met raw material
HONEST MANUFACTURE,
gsd
WILL OUTWEAR THE
HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED AS
SUBSTITUTES
SEE
HORROCKSES*
ON
SELVEDGE
Wateffian's ■ IdealHuntain Pen
OK
This simple
Filling Device
is making thousands of new
converts to the Fountain Pen
habit. It is simplicity itself. Rais©
the lever, immerse nib in ink, lowef
lever again, and the pen is filled. This
device is embodied in the World’s Best
Fountain Pen, Waterman's Ideal, and the
type is known as the Lever Pocket Self-
Filler. In every detail the pen is perfection.
There are nibs to suit every hand.
The
NEW LEVER.
POCKET
SEL»F**
FILLER
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Corner,
LONDON, ENGLAND-
Australia : Harold D. Dixon, .
105, Clarence St., Sydney.
v!
%
V
W*
1
g
I
Makes the whole bath room shine
The nickel faucets, the enamel
basin, the bath tub, the tile, the
mirror and the white paint in
the bath room —Bon Ami cleans
them all exquisitely.
The fact that you can use it
freely on the finest mirror shows
that it won’t scratch the polished
nickel or the enamel or the paint
as coarse scouring soaps do. It
leaves no oily film as metal
polish does and contains no acid
to eat the metal.
Bon Ami cleans and polishes
by the rubbing of its soft,
crumbly white mineral.
You have no idea how shimmer-
ingly white your bath tub can
be till you try Bon Ami on it.
At your grocers.
sdg
ds
gsd
For all the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing & Cleaning [
“There is nothing else like
Amusements.
DIBCH & CARROLL
M (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURR MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
llu ad Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Business Notices.
/
Jl
1
(tl
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
tyCARBOLICIJ
r
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO„
Manchester, Eng.
r
-e
r
V ■
f.
r
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant —
so 'Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
■
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10,000 Doctois
recommend ‘ Winearnis.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Winearnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Winearnis Works, Norwich.
You can buy ‘Winearnis from
all Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/- and 6/6, but it
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 235, Clarence Street,
gydney, N.S.W.


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
I was troubled with a rash appearing'
on my arms which turned into small fes-
ters and grew larger until they formed
into eruptions. They were very itchy
and burned terribly. I got very little
sleep as the pain was dreadful. They
were as big as one shilling and appeared
on both arms, one arm had seven erup-
tions and the other three.
I came across the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment advertisement. I bought some
Cuticura Soap and Ointment and in a
month the eruptions had disappeared. ’ ’
(Signed) Miss F. Low, Eastern Creek,
N. S. W., October 29, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
Sold throughout the world.
the GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT **
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
The famous Ilemedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Proof & Co.. 220 Strand. Loudon.
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES. AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
1
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
ELEY Granrl Prlx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
g
ELEY
450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
UJ !•#,
5^
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS.L? LONDON
ll , lu . 3tration appearing in The
xjULLetiJi takes your fancy, write to the
• lanager, who will quote you price fog it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1843.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonu»-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. AV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; lion. J. T. AValker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. \\ r inchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian 'vnox, Esq., lv.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq. •
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. AV. APPERLY, Secretary.-
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,070,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. AVrite for prospectus
and full information without delay.
M;.
v-
- i
m
w6>.
W
mm
IST
.
mz
!Wfi
4ptr^
1
■
'J'lVr.
' :
The Tyre of outstanding merit
Palmer Cords have strength. They are built up strand by strand from
fine cotton threads. Fibre and rubber alternate so that, in the complete
cord, no two strands touch.
Woven canvas, the tyre reinforcement of a// Tyres The cords run transversely across the tread in two
out Palmers, lacks life. It sets up the internal layers. They form ,a reinforcement which
triction which the Palmer I atent Cords eliminate. restrains the air pressure evenly and without hcrat.
Palmer Cord Tyres are made in all sizes for Heavy and Light Cars, Cyclecars, Motor Cyles, Auto-
Wheels and Aeroplanes.
Palmer Fabric—cot'on strands separately insulated in pure rubber—is the foundation of the lower-priced
Pa mer Motor Cycle Tyres and of all Palmer Cycle Tyres. The Palmer Cord is a development from
Palmer Fabric; tor their individual purpose, both Cord and Fabric represent the highest efficiency known.
Agency for
Motor Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 George St.,
Sydney.
LITERATURE FREE BY POST OR
CALL FROM NEAREST AGENCY OR DEPOT.
e
m*u,»
Coro Tyre
Agency for
Motftr Cycle and
Cycle Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 George St.,
Sydney.
The PALMER TYRE Ltd., Chief Offices and Showrooms,
119 to 123, Shaftesbury Avenue, London, W.C., England.
(i) <i>
'S'-o.px
c>& GO Kt
w
SOCRATES
You don’t need to be a philosopher to
realise the advantages of getting clean,
reliable fuel every time you have your tank
filled. Every wise motorist fills up with
‘‘Plume” —not once, but always, for with
“Plume” there is always the satisfaction of
knowing that it is the best obtainable.
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting Sweet Running—More Miles
Besides, it is a fact that “Plume” costs
less by giving more mileage to the gallon.
It is easy starting in the coldest weather
and ensures clean cylinders.
Correct Lubrication
Lubrication plays such an important part
in the sweet running of your car that you
cannot afford to use other than Gargoyle
Mobiloils “A grade for each type of
Motor.” Write for free Recommendation
Chart, which shows the correct grade you
should use in your car. For sale at all
dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
2
dg
d
gsd
The Inky Way.
“Quid” : It was another Bananaland paper
that brought the blush of shame to the local
cheek when it complained that the Railway
Department had refused to attach sleeping-
cars to the trains returning from the Show,
though the Show officals had promised to
guarantee a minimum of 200 births.
“John Inky”: During the recent hearing
ol: the A.J.A.’s claims before the Federal
Arbitration Court, the question of the quali-
fications of sub-editors was intruded. One
witness declared that the sub. of the Age
was. “the best in Australia.” The testi-
monial came from the assistant-sub., and the
arguments and general dogfight that have
ensued can be heard above the howls for
W. M. Hughes’s pelt.
* * * *
Thomas Burke Daly, the journalist who
was swept out to sea and drowned while
fishing at Bondi (N.S.W.). was a nephew
of Burke the explorer. His brother Will,
who was for years a pressman in Launceston
(Tas.), was lately killed at the Front.
* * # *
The Vic. T ypographical Society is having
a jubilee. . The present is hardly a time
for uproarious rejoicings, so the society is
merely going to treat itself to a commemora-
tive medal, at a cost of £BO, for little Willie
to drop down the sink. But if it only treats
itself to a medal it is going to treat the Mel-
bourne Hospital to £5OO for the endowment
of a bed—-so it really doesn’t matter what
little Willie does with dad’s medal.
* * # *
Succinct, business,-like intimation from the
Woomelang Sun ( Vic.) :—•
The proprietor of this paper (Mr. L. S. Brown)
having been accepted for active service, the paper
will be carried on by Mrs. Brown during his absence.
May the Sun never set and every subscri-
ber pay up in advance 1
This is L.
Broinowski,
Associate Edi-
tor of the
Hobart Mer-
cury, whose re-
ce n t articles
criticising the
action of the
Assembly in
passing the La-
trobe Shale Oil
Purchasing Bill
has led to the
expulsion of the
pa p e r’s staff
from the House.
Of a melan-
choly and neu-
rotic natu r e,
“Bron” always
appears tired
a n d careless.
His dry ex-
terior, however,
hides as keen a
political per-
ception as any
in Tassy.
The Nelson Colonist (M.L.) had a good
idea the other day :
THE PRESIDENT INACTIVE.
TAKEN OVER BY SWITZERLAND.
Berne, Feb. 8. —Switzerland has agreed to take
charge of American interests in the United States.
Time something definite was done about
that vacillating country.
* * * *
George McGowan, who is having a cut at
Billson, M.L.A., for Labor selection at Fitz-
roy, has pushed his barrow around a bit in
Victoria. From compositor on Kilmore
Advertiser he came to the troubles of
manager and dropped them to take on more
trouble on the Tungamah Independent. He
was printer and publisher of Walhalla
Miner, but got out of the job when the
Long Tunnel mine went smash after paying
about a million in divs. He next edited
Kerrigan Advertiser, and, later, Sheppar-
ton Advertiser. Then he bobbed up as
Labor candidate for Lowan, and was beaten
by Menzies (Lib.). At the last State elec-
tions he walloped Jack Cain for the right
to be outed by Andy Robertson (Lib.) at
Bulla. He is now organiser for the Imple-
ment Makers’ Union, and is young enough
to snap his fingers in the face of Time.
* * * *
“Musketoon”: The Bulletin’s par.
(25/1/T7) about the man who ran Gus
Millar’s paper single-handed, ’ reminds me
of a couple of others. Patterson, of the
Tottenham (N.S.W.) Peer, is editor, type-
setter, business manager, job-printer, proof-
reader and devil combined. He is also the
coroner in his spare time. Sometimes he
has to “sit on the body” when he has no
spare time, as in the case of the murdered
Constable Duncan. On that occasion the
paper was issued three days behind
schedule. Major Keegan acted similarly on
the paper at Nimitybelle (N.S.W.), but the
work was so severe on him that he not long
ago leased Harry Pinkstone’s Hawkesbury
Herald. Pinkstone w T ent up to Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.) to keep his old dad's
paper going.
* * * *
Black-and-whiter Mick Paul sought to
enlist a week or so ago ; but as one of his
eyes, owing to an accident in childhood, can
be left on the mantelpiece without incon-
venience, the verdict went against him.
Mick said —but perhaps better not repeat it.
THE INFLUENCE OF WASHINGTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Count Bernstorff said that since he had come to
Washington he had never told am’ lies to newspaper-
men.—Cable.
They say that there are holy wells
That heal men halt and blind from birth,
And saints can still work miracles
With relics that they left on earth;
But what is there beneath the sun
Can beat the power of Washington!
O boy who never told a lie,
How well you played your earthly part!
Let Brother Bernstorff testify
How you have wrought a change of heart!
O sacred town! Long may you keep
Your power of turning goats to sheep!
VICTORIA.
RANN DALY.


*JL
r r~
tV'WFJAL
Warning Signal
Hand-operated
£. 1/10/-
Makes Them All
Stop! Look! Listen!
Too many' cars are equipped with a weak,
little buzzer that can only be heard a
few yards away.
What good is that ? Can it afford real pro-
tection ?
Many a serious accident has been due to
the faintness of a poor, inefficient, weak
signal.
Safety first! Use a Stewart Warning
Signal for your own protection.
Its note is clear, loud and penetrating —it
makes everyone stop, look and listen.
Just tou.ch it with elbow, arm or hand and
it instantly commands immediate atten-
tion.
Built of the best materials by the world’s
largest motor accessory manufacturers,
Stewart Warner Speedometer Corpora-
tion.
Tens of thousands are in use. Our big pro-
duction makes possible the very low
price.
The Stewart Warning Signal can be put on
any car —yours, or your friend’s.
Order one now, and hereafter you will drive
with a greater degree of safety.
For sale by leading accessory dealers, motor-
car dealers and garages, or write to:
BENNETT & WOOD,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Exclusive Distributors.
The Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
&Uewwit>
Motor-Driven Warning Signal.
' £2/12/6
g
“No car is better than its accessories.”
sdg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Did it ever occur to YOU
that we are SPECIALISTS in
all kinds of~
SPORTING
REPAIRS
When your Tennis Racquet Breaks
—send it to MICK SIMMONS.
wm
9
m
inn ira
i
V
ii
in
h
*%
&
%
s
Jpw<
-4\
IL
*?
OL (Sorrier
our
SiSqp
r
W
tS
r
rye.
m
B
When something
happens to your*
Cun—send it to
HVIICK SIMMONS.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
Tennis Racquets, Cricket
Bats, Golf Clubs, Hockey
and Lacrosse Sticks, Skates,
Fishing Rods, Reels, in fact
all Sporting Requisites re=
paired by Expert Workmen
in the finest equipped
Factory in the Southern
HpmispHpfp
Bring along your Repairs when visiting the Easter
Show, or, better still, send them to us right NOW!
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED—Charges Moderate.
New edition illustrated Sports Catalogue and “Sure Catch ” Angler's Guide.
Post Free to any address.
Mick Simmons h
haymapket
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.


The Australian Venus, Miss Ellera Neri,
sings the Praises of
REXONA
;
i.v
>*
A
.4
..
Ml
**. ...
sr
■'
Miss ELLERA
RERI (from
a photo.).
“I liave been using’
both Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, and Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap for a long: time, and with
the best results. I can truly say that I, too,
am a Rexona Girl. Wliat a wonderful thing Rexona
is. I have bad occasion to use it more than a dozen
times, and in every instance have found it a most
wonderful healer.
“For my liair I would not think of using anything
else but Rexona Soap—it makes it delightful and
keeps the complexion so clear ami fresh. Surely
there is nothing like it. Hid anyone ever tell you
how good Rexona Soap and Ointment were for tired
feet? Really they are a 20th Century luxury in this
respect. To bathe the feet with Rexona Soap, and
to anoint with a little Rexona takes away all tlve
tiredness and leaves one’s feet feeling as fresh as
in the mornings.”
“Honestly, Rexona Is first, and last with me
the time, and I shall always give it the
praise which it justly deserves.
“Sincerely yours,
“(Sgd.) BLLERA NERI.”
REXONA, the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-. REXONA SOAP, 1/- tablet.
$n *
■pvQ YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and Unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron 'Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . • IRON ‘JELLOIDS No. 2A,
For Anaemia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS' No. /.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-.
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD;,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
kcnMmm
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
You cannot help being
nourished if you take
BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Juggler.
Long ago and long ago, no matter where
nor when,
There lived a Fool who played with words
to charm his fellow men.
JESTER or Juggler, power he had,
A wizard of rare skill was he ;
Whatever might in words be clad
He seized on for his alchemy.
The changes of a tragic day,
The motes that in a sunbeam throng,
Lost leaves or laughter blown his way
Were welded in the gold of song.
Sometimes, may be, sedately sweet
He drew the love-throes of the soil
Through ripening wonder of the wheat,
And kingliness of willing toil;
Then sudden as the wind-vane whirls,
Wearied of chanting graver joys,
With limpid syllables for pearls
He threaded sounds in jewelled toys.
Like hail capricious April slants,
Like apple petals on the torm,
He tossed the clinking consonants.
And velvet vowels into form,
In music bright as fountain spray,
Gentle as frightened Youth’s first kiss;
Folk listened, and then went their way
With, “What an idle Fool is this!”
Oft when his shrewd and merry glance
Saw right by folly overborne
And courage cringing before chance,
His lines were scourges of light scorn,
Flails of fantastic mockery fraught
With subtle force to clarify ;
Men found the harvest of their thought
Winnowed and clean, and guessed not why.
But as with time his cunning grew
More humble and more truly wise,
His only guerdon that he knew
A spell to heal and tranquillise
Poor troubled souls with song, again
He bent his eagle gaze to find
Hid in the very heart of pain
Joy, and more Joy, for sad mankind.
And when Love paused by him, then fled
(Love cannot look on motley long),
He took the smart of tears unshed,
The smothered anguish of his wrong,
His fair hopes crushed in sorrow grim,
And from them, with a twisted smile,
He wrought a splendid bridal hymn
That rang down many a rose-strewn aisle.
The amber witchery of the grape
Sparkled afresh within his rhyme;
For him the curious foxglove’s shape
Bade impish carillons to chime ;
With daydreams of a lonely maid.
With babble of a two-years child
Spun into lullabies, he played
Till even mourning mothers smiled.
He caught the ghost-voice in the shell,
And set the passionate mystery free;
To him the wild fawn of the dell
Revealed her timid ecstasy ;
Romance of every violet
Whispered where dimpling water runs,
All pure young secrecies he set
In folk-songs for the little ones.
So he grew old and grey, alone,
Alone in motley, singing still
With mellow lips that would not moan ;
And sometimes one would praise his skill,
But ere his ears such sweetness drank
They heard poor pride and longing’s knells ;
’Twas but a juggling mountebank.
’Twas but a Fool in cap and bells.
How sore he winced when children fleered ;
Yet toiled untiring to the end ;
But when the dark Deliverer neared
He hailed him thankfully as Friend.
Numbed by the shadow icy-strong.
Tortured, he wove, with failing breath,
A little gay heart-breaking song,
A daisy wreath to pardon Death.
Oh, long ago and long ago, no matter where
nor when,
Died that poor Fool who sought with ivords
to win his fellow men.
VICTORIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Cash or Kind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DICK WHITSUNDAY, in the schooner
Three Kings, sailed up to the lagoon
and island of Benedire an hour after
the dawn-wind had begun to crinkle the
water to the surface of a silk chiffon. He
had been in sight of the island the day
before, but too late to come to an anchorage,
and so had stood on and off all night. And
now the Three Kings floated placidly through
the opening in the reef; and, as the day
became majestically complete, she dropped
anchor in 16 fathoms.
Dick Whitsunday had started out, not as
an actively bad man, but as a man careless
of others—an egoist going easily down the
labent way of degeneration. A man taller
than he appeared, the discount of height
being by a fleshiness that yet made him very
active and strong; a round head, hair once
ginger and going grey, a ginger moustache
over a lip so thick that it seemed to have
been punched to swollenness; slanting
corners to the eyes, which were small and
light-blue in a great expanse of dirty white.
A man of strong will and little mind. The
kind 'to whom a little authority is fatal —to
themselves as to others.
He stood by the rail of the Three Kings
looking down at the lucent green water of
the lagoon, and then at the village on the
beach framed in its nipa and cocoanut palms
and breadfruit trees, the palms threshing
their fronds forever in a maddening monot-
ony, although the air was scarcely ruffled by
its own breathing. He noted the natives
ashore, moving and intent on the schooner,
but showing no inclination to meet him at
close quarters: and at this, rare among
peoples with all a monkey’s inquisitiveness,
he was puzzled.
Striding up the beach at a decisive gait
that made the crescent-shaped group of
natives give way, and involuntarily so
straightening the line, he halted before an
old and grizzled man, the chief of Benedire,
now long past his prime, and retaining his
position as many old men in white govern-
ment maintain theirs—by the conservatism
of their middle-aged subjects and the igno-
rance and shyness of youth.
“H’llo, Ringworm,” said Whitsunday, his
quick, pig-like eyes observing with one glance
the condition of the chief’s skin. “Why you
no been sendem out plenty boy longa boat?
I been catch ’em trade ; plenty bead, plenty
’bac-ca, plenty jew’s-harp I stop. Why you
no been sendem plenty stroqg-feller boy?”
The- chief falteringly replied that “all
feller boy no been like go way longa ship ; all
feller boy wantem stop longa boy place” ; and
the murmurs of the crowd told Whitsunday
that he and the Three Kings had a bad name,
and that none of the natives cared to trust
themselves aboard of the schooner.
That made him the more eager to get
them. Their unwillingness to recruit argued
to the blackbirder a tremendous value, and a
Benedire kanaka seemed then to Whitsunday
equal to any two natives of Buka or the
Shortlands, or of any other place from the
Admiralties to the Calvados Chain.
So he argued, and he sent for the trade in
the boat, and tried to dazzle them, and they
still refused, with almost pathetic attempts
at apology, as if shunning quarrel at any
cost. Naturally their deprecation of refusal
made Whitsunday more insistent; and at
last the threats of an old woman on the
outskirts of the crowd —an old woman who
cried that her son had been taken by the
Three Kings and had died, as was reported
by his returned mates, from ill-treatment ai
sea —became general; and the old chief found
his courage again, and told Whitsunday to
his teeth that he was a bad man.
The blackbirder had. discretion as well as
valor; he retreated carelessly and with his
back turned, never looking over his
shoulder at them as if he defied them
to kill him from behind. He entered
the boat, kicking the kanaka crew
left and right, and shouting out to the people
of Benedire that he would return in a moon
and force them to acknowledge his authority.
As the boat was half a cable’s length from
the beach the crowd parted to let through a
big, bronze-black young man, not much more
than a boy in years, but mature at 20 by
reason of climate and training. His face was
transfigured by rage momentarily replaced by
despair; the quickness of his intellect showed
in the capacity of his face to express change
of emotions so rapidly. He dashed through
the crowd, pursued by a beautifully-formed
woman, naked but for her lava-lava and a
string of beads; at the sea edge he turned,
and with uplifted hand cursed and spurned
them all —the woman, the broken semi-circle
of natives and the island itself. He ran into
the water till it was thigh-deep; and then
swam for the boat with a long steady crawl-
stroke that ate the distance.
“Backwater, you cows!” cried Whitsun-
day, seeing the swimmer, his eyes glistening
at the thought of a recruit being given him,
through the caprice of a woman, against all
the opposition of the island. “Backwater!
Jumping Moses! He’s a boy to make a song
about.”
The boat backed and the swimmer quickly
drew up to it, threw himself across the
side and sprawled, earning a curse from
Whitsunday because drops of sea-water
fell from the glistening body on the spotless
raiment of the blackbirder.
“What name you?” asked Whitsunday.
“Madeno name I stop.”
“Why you come? Been makem big-fellow
row alonga wife?”
The big lustrous eyes flashed in passion,
and then were deeply troubled and sorrowful
again.
“That one woman belongem me talk alto-
gether alonga another feller too much.”
“I see—jealous. You’re not the first man
who ran away to the wars to get even. You
catchem plenty other boy friend?”
Madeno answered more spiritedly than
before, as if the remembrance of many
friends brought back most of his native
courage.
“Plenty friend belongem me. When I go
way they cry too much.”
“Good enough !” said Whitsunday, know-
ing that many of Madeno’s friends would
follow him to unnecessary labor and exile.
He counted on those island friendships of
the heroic Roman type—the clean attach-
ment of clean youth.
“Give way, you black cows- —you pull
like a lot of soldiers. Put your backs into
it and make the ship ! Go to it!”
As the boat lifted and surged forward
under the last ounce of power in the sweat-
ing crew, a dozen of Madeno’s friends, dis-
regarding the cries of old men and women,
their fathers and mothers, and the noisy dis-
suasions of younger women, their sweet-
hearts and wives, loosed the silent clinging
of children and broke away from the group
in the village street, ran into the sea, and
swam for the schooner lying within the
entrance of the lagoon.
Whitsunday looked back, counted the
heads rising and falling like cocoanuts on the
long swell suddenly succeeding a stagnant
sea, a'nd grinned. Well had he cause to be
self satisfied. In that jealousy of Madeno’s,
his misery and the self-sacrifice of the 12
steadfast friends, Dick Whitsunday saw but
£9l, the recruiter’s fee of seven pounds on
the thirteen heads.
He got them all aboard safely, and signed
them on, gave them an old pipe, a shred of
tobacco and a few beads, with a mouth-
organ and sarong for Madeno. Then he
put them into the hold and laid nearly all
the hatch-gratings on, for fear they should
lose their courage and change their minds.
But he did not see, when the moon rose,
barred wickedly with black clouds, a tinge
of mephistophelean red in them, that eight
young women gave themselves to the sea-
ward tide that swept them down to the
anchor of the Three Kings. They clasped
their legs round • her chains, and called
softly to the water: and four children of five
years or thereabouts gave themselves over to
the sea in their turn, and so were lifted in
(Continued on next page.)


YOU CAN ALWAYS TELL THE
MAN WITH KIDNEY TROUBLE
The man with kidney trouble
is cheerless in expression, sal-
low and heavy-eyed. His
back troubles him da}/ and
night —spoils his sleep, and
makes him dizzy and faint
after the slightest exertion.
D oan’s Backache Kidney
Pills make the kidneys well;
they are the one medicine
that is especially for kidney
and bladder troubles —the
one medicine that cures men
and women, and protects
them against such advanced
kidney complaints as Bright’s
Disease, Diabetes, Dropsy,
Rheumatism, etc.
Every Ticture I
Tells AS/ory'l
\
\
%
3
LL
Serious Kidney
Trouble.
Inflammation of the
Kidneys.
Sydney Man Cured After
Long Suffering.
Mr. George Woodroffe, 10 Koseby Street, Drum-
moyne, Sydney, says: “1 have derived very great
benefit from the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Seventeen years ago a cold settled on my kidneys, and
eventually inflammation of the kidneys and bladder
set in, and up to the time of taking Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, some months ago, I suffered terribly.
I have been treated by some of the cleverest and best-
known Sydney doctors, and was for seventeen and a
half weeks in the Sydney Hospital, where I had one
kidney removed. Though the Various treatments
eased me for a time I was not cured, and would soon
relapse into my former ill-health. I also tried patent
medicines advertised to cure kidney complaint, and
they did not even give me temporary relief. My
brother was always worrying me to try Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, if I only took one bottle. To
please him I got them, and before I had finished the
bottle I felt much better; in fact, I had not felt so
well for years; the pills were working wonders for
me. I continued taking them, and am now perfectly
cured of every symptom of kidney trouble.”
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above eleven years
later: “My cure has lasted, for I am still free of
the terrible torture of kidney and bladder trouble.
If I ever feel the slightest pain near my kidneys I
take a few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and they never fail to relieve me at one .”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
* r
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
sd
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
gsd
the wan moonlight from the chains to the
foot-ropes below the bowsprit, and then past
the ghostly white of her figurehead, inboard,
The youngest and handsomest of the women
was Madeno’s wife ; she wrung the water
from her hair, and eased the burden from
her head to her shoulders, so that it could
be seen she had swum from shore with a
two-year-old child tied to her head.
The women slipped along the decks warily,
fearing detection; they came to the
slaver’s hold—-“the blackbirds’ cage”—-
called to the men below, found the hatches
on, and sent their whispers down to the
darkness. The mouth-organ, played execra-
bly by Madeno, answered Madeno’s woman,
She called to him. Madeno put the mouth-
organ into his loin-cloth and answered her
gladly. And then all these voluntary exiles,
finding that the real cause of Madeno’s
trouble was apologetic, and loving, and
anxious to have him at home again, sud-
denly desired to go on shore. But the
hatches were home, and the wedges driven
against the bands at the coaming ; and then
the voice of Whitsunday, raw with brandy,
drove all the women to a huddle oil the fore-
castle head, there to lie low in the half-
darkness that followed the clouds rushing
across the moon.
Whitsunday’s voice followed them for-
ward, calling on the crew to rouse out and
weigh anchor; a sudden falling of the
glass in the cabin had told the one white
man of the ship the danger that threatened
to cut the ship in two, using the two horns
0 t the lagoon as scissors.
The swell rose as if it would lift the reef
with it; huge blacknesses came out of the.
east as if in pursuit of the flying moon; the
clouds thickened until the moon was extin-
guished ; the tide seemed to hang upon itself
as if too thick to pour; and then rain fell
in drenches, roaring witn the sea that
sounded only with its own motion, there
being yet not a breath of wind to lift the
sickly staleness of the air. The anchor came
up by slow links; the clink of the pawls
was lost in the dolorous chant of the crew
and the roar of rain and sea.
Then the tide lifted itself bodily ; the sea
seemed a great liquid plateau hinting at
voraginous depressions far away. Whit-
Sunday knew he was right to weigh anchor,
but now saw that with the shoreward set of
the tremendous tide the right thing had been
half the wrong thing; for there was no wind
to take him to sea from the dangers of
the teeth of coral, all the more terrible
because they were hidden. But he got her
slowly round ; for a puff of wind came and
laid her head towards the opening of the
reef, sufficient air then coming steadily to
give her steerageway.
Fear came in the rising wind and settled
on the ship. The children • wailed their
terror; the women aided them with screams,
and the men, locked up in the threatening
darkness, and hearing the sea hitting the
schooner solidly as if it were not liquid but
a million riveters’ hammers falling on her
sides, began to clamor to be loosed.
The Three Kings felt the rising wind, and
under very light canvas moved more quickly
towards the open seas. Then the wind came
in a shriek as if in pain, and fell again ; but
it was enough. The Three Kings cleared
the lagoon; and Whitsunday was relieved
because now he had a larger and open field
to give battle to the elements.
But two of his crew at the cry of the
women had spoken with the men below ; and
now they knocked out the wedges and helped
Madeno and his twelve friends to the deck.
Whitsunday found them there, cursed them
and struck Madeno to the deck. The clouds
parted and showed the moon clear for a
moment, looking down at that black hell of
tortured water, growing storm and love of
gain and fear of death —looked down calmly,
the eye of a god on the passions of men.
The men cowered ; the women, fearing for
their children, turned faces of menace on
Whitsunday. Madeno’s child cried at his
feet. Sick with it all, mad with the rage of
loss of cargo and vessel, and also insane
with the insanity of the thwarted egoist,
Whitsunday seized Madeno’s child by a leg,
knocked its head against the rail, and threw
it. wailing, overboard. The mother shrieked
and leaping to the rail followed it; Madeno,
dazed, rose to his feet and rushed at Whit-
sunday. He got one blow in and tried for
a fingerhold on the throat; but Whitsunday
beat him off easily, stepped back and drew
his revolver. At that Madeno, knowing that
a revolver can strike further than a hand,
leaped to the rail and went over as the
revolver cracked—and missed.
Then with a scream the wind tore itself
out of the darkness; the moon was again
covered, but came for a moment to show a
wilderness of great waves and dirty spume,
-a-s if that tide had furrowed the ocean floor
and raised the sea-slime to the level of the
air. There was no shriek of wind now ; it
settled in a few minutes into a long and
steady roaring.
The Three Kings plunged into it. The little
sail that was set blew out; the crew had
never had any stomach for Whitsunday, and
now that King Hurricane had deposed King
rirato, they sat down and let King Hurri-
cane have his way. Whitsunday took the
helm; and, through that inky blackness torn
with tremendous sound, but never by light,
steered the Three Kings with such an in-
stinct as bids horses shy at almost anything
m the dark. She shipped a great comber
that came over the fo’c’s’le head, roared
along the decks, carrying most of Madeno’s
friends and their women overboard, and
poured into the open hold. Whitsunday felt
her settling deeper in the water, but in that
hell of sound and blackness he could not
steer but by luck.
’ Another sea climbed aboard, and yet
another, and he could feel her floating more
easily and yet more deeply. He cursed
Madeno and his jealousy; he cursed the
ship and the storm, and felt her settling
down the more. Then a momentary glimpse
of the moon showed him his position almost
as plainly as if he had had a chart. Having
his knowledge of the coast and the lagoon,
he now put the helm to port, deciding to
beach ship, and give himself one more chance.
The Three Kings, turning to port in a long,
flattened arc, _ suddenly met a tongue of
coral, and with that tremendous, driving
Wind, now veering seaward and pressing on
her starboard quarter, she rose at the reef
like a horse at a fence, steeplec-hased it and
collapsed in the mad water behind it like
an empty matchbox broken by a fist. In
that hell of aerial sound and broken water,
the smashing of her could not be heard;
Whitsunday went through it unable to think,
guided only by the instinct to live. A great
wave swept him to the sand that banked
one of the horned beaches of the lagoon,
carrying him far above the shore line, so
that he felt trees about him and was gripped
by the fear that this heavy flotsam would
break him as a snail is crushed underfoot.
But luck was with him, though it might be
the luck that keeps the condemned in good
health for the executioner. The wave broke
and left him; he filled his lungs with air
and staggered forward, thrust at by
branches wind-torn from the trees; the
roaring of the sea drowned in the roaring
of the wind, punctuated by the pattering of
cocoanuts falling from the palms, the crash
of great trees playing skittles with little
trees, and the steady sounds, its of rifle firing,
of cracking and rending timber. At last,
miraculously preserved from all the projec-
tiles of the jungle, he came to an open space
of high tussocky grass- and belts of scrub
so low that they escaped the fury of the
hurricane. Beaten sore and bruised to help-
lessness he crawled into the scrub, lay flat
as a board and sank into the stupor of
weariness.
* * * #
The village did not awake, for it had not
slept. Cowering beneath partly-collapsed
huts it waited for the sun ; its fear connect-
ing the horrors of the night with that bad
white man who had threatened it the day
before. An hour after daylight came
Madeno, his left arm broken, but otherwise
unhurt, and bringing his story of the hell
ship, the Three Kings; of Whitsunday, the
bad white man who murdered a wailing
child; of Madeno’s wife, who could make
Madeno jealous no more. They looked at
their ruined village, at the palm groves
rent and flattened, at the disturbed soil of
the gardens shaven even of grass as by the
razor of Titans. And they charged it all to the
devil Whitsunday, whom the other devils
of the sea had saved, and who sailed some-
where with his stolen 12 men, seven women
and four children. And they cursed Whit-
sunday and their hearts swelled with the
hope of great revenge. .
Before noon they knew that Whitsunday’s
devils had deserted him. Pieces of the
broken ship came ashore; then the bodies
of four men, a‘ woman and a child. But
neither the . woman nor the child had been
Madeno’s. It was at mid afternoon that,
finding other bodies along the shore, Madeno
led a party to search for the body of Whit-
sunday ; and they searched expecting to find
him alive.
They found the after-part of the Three
Kings already partly silted up with the
sand the wiki water had carried in suspen-
sion; and half a mile further in they found
Whitsunday sleeping. Madeno awoke him
with the kick of insult, delivered from the
flat of the foot.
Bloody of eye, skinned by salt, wind and
sun, Bis face bruised by his passage through
sea and forest, Whitsunday sat up, and,
quite beaten, let them take him prisoner.
With loud cries of joy and hatred they
dragged him through the ruined forest,
showed him the destruction of grove and
garden ; told him he should pay. But weari-
ness was stronger than fear, and he walked
in stupor, hoping only to have it done with
soon.
They brought him to the village and threw
him down and he was asleep in an instant.
But Madeno would not trust this devil to
know human weariness, and fastened his
feet with vines. They opened a council as
the sun disappeared, and they finished it as
the moon rose in a clear sky. Then they
lighted the fires and woke him. He saw
and understood, then closed his eyes again,
too weary to fear.
Four men carried him to the fire and laid
him down by it. He set his teeth to endure,
thankful that he was too beaten to feel poig-
nantly. and that the anesthesia of weariness
was coming over him again.
They would have placed him in the flames
then, but Madeno stopped them. Whitsun-
day had paid him, not in cash, but in kind,
so would they pay Whitsunday—with pain.
Therefore, in all justice, must his gifts be
returned to him. Madeno had landed naked,
but the chief possessed a new sarong of
turkey red and a jew’s harp left by a decent
trader a month before. These Madeno begged
of the chief, who gravely agreed, as a man
who loved justice too.
Madeno awakened Dick Whitsunday and
gave him the sarong and mouth-organ. Whit-
sunday, understanding, turned his face from
the fire and closed his eyes.
And then the game of Devil’s Tool began
—-Black on White ; player Bed. And player
Bed was Fire.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD
Hands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I pity the poor hands so deeply seamed, •
Calloused and warted, and each blunted
nail
Which points such splendid moral to the
tale.
Not hands are they, but implements; and
deemed
As such to raise the bastion heavy-beamed,
To swing the girder, forge the shaft and
rail,
Burr the white rivet or to rend the bale,
And wake to life the dream some dreamer
dreamed !
Hard, gnarlfed hands, brown as the pence ye
earn,
Groping so meekly, while the parapet
Sings to th(> stars for joy at being made!
Poor hands, I weep that ye so mutely yearn!
Fathers of granite palaces, and yet
Wrung in despair within their coldest shade!
MAOKILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


WestinghouM<M.r S e> Chain Drives
sm
. -•- ,
THE ROCKER-JOINT eliminates fric-
tion, and as there is no slip, power losses
are reduced to a minimum. Our chain
business is constantly increasing, prov-
ing that engineers are realising the
advantages to be gained by using
ROCKER-JOINT CHAINS.
Ask for Booklet 8.M.310 when making your
inquiry.
H U of^nt s 7 HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
Vi'itV.?il« n'i 93 " 10 L F o eatherston str eet, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The Westinghotise Brake Co.
of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
[1
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. "Time tells
all things says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold m boxes, labelled price 10Jd (36 pills), 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Vpt e ne
Saves 5 per cent, on
Automobile
Fire Insurance.
Price 55/ ■ each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
g
r FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
iij
Economy
For all-round tube-screwing: use
the time-saving
1
,f 7
r
m
sms
304-A
lin. to
4in.
Screws.
Tubes,
Bolts,
Nipples.
OSTER
SCREWING
MACHINES
and save money over liand-screwing.
Furnished in four sizes for belt or
motor drive. Dies and extra parts
carried in stock here. Ask for catalog.
THE OSTER MFG. C 0 Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRICHT, Box 251 C.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic. [2
LONG RIDES
over rough roads simply serve to emphasize that
perfection in construction and design which is
responsible for the perfect comfort of the
BROOKS.
OF ALL DEALERS
sdg
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.
S.ELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all .coneiKnments.' Why not siiie them aerial?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
%
THREE ~/?J r B&£7U TYjRES
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St, London, England,
Stockists:
_ MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 2x2, MADRAS STREET.
(eP htu
sdg
If any illustration appearing in 'i'iie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
AUSTRALIAN MADE
a
o
OilO
2
Rack& Pinion Jacks
Superior Quality to the old Continental Make. Double Action. Railway Pattern.
Capacities o and 6 tons. Quite the Strongest and Best Jack made for Erecting
Machinery, Removing Houses, Bridge Building, etc.
ILLUSTRATED BOOK FREE.
We are the largest Manufacturers of
BOLTS and NUTS in Australia.
Regular Stock of 300 to 500 Tons.
We make Bolts and Nuts of every description, and will be pleased to quote you
Bolts in any quantity.
We make Coach, Engine, Service and Pump Bolts, Nuts, Coach Screws, Set
Screws, Bolt Ends, Tie Rods, Rivets, etc.
We Specialise in Contractors’ Requirements, such as for Bridge and Pier
Building, etc.
Contractors to the various State Railways, Government Departments, and all
Leading Mining and Engineering Companies throughout Australasia.
c
Proprietary Limited
51-65 BATHORST STREET,
SYDNEY, N. S. WALES.
and 582-88 COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
■Mangrovitel,
sd
wsrjutiM;*
LTI
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
High-Speed Steel'
Drills for En^ ngers -
gsd
“ULTRA CAPITAL” QUALITY. ™ ,n * u “ *-"*•
“CAPITAL” QUALITY In sizes l-Bin. to Sin.
An Eagle on a Globe Brand Silver Steel Rods
In 13in. lengths.
FOR FINE TOOES. Sizes Ito 60. l-Bin. to Jin. dia.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Australian
Offices—
, r 379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne; Chpffiplri
446 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle;
lßrisbane: John Reid & Nephews; Adelaide: Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.
MAKES ANY BUILDING
FIREPROOF
and reduces insurance cost to the lowest
basis. For interior and exterior walls,
ceilings, partitions, etc.
Hardie’s (Britfsh=made)
Fibro-Cement
is being largely used all over the country.
Actually improves with age, does not crack or
chip, costs less to keep in repair.
WRITE FOR CATALOG “D”
Also enquire about “Fibro-O” Cold-water
Paint and Hardie’s Oak Cover Battens. for use
with the above.
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
WOLFE’S
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPPS
Tang ye Portable Oil Engine.
■lf *
9
Clayton Portable Steam Engine.
8
i b
m
DALGETY’S
Bunds Travelling Chaffoutter.
MACHINERY DISPLAY
At the forthcoming ROYAL EASTER SHOW, Sydney, 3-11 April, 1917,
Will be well worth your inspection
Working Exhibits will be arranged of the following:—
Tangye Eampless Oil Engines, Tangye Benzine Engines, Tangye’s Pumps,
Clayton & Sliuttleworth Portable Steam & Traction Engines. Wolseley Sheep
Shearing Machines & Cream Separators. “E.R.8.” Separator Engines—
“E.R.B.” Earm Pump Outfits. John Bunele & Son’s well-known and popular
Chaffcutters. “Cane.” Milking Machinery—a fine 2-cow working Exhibit of
these Machines.
In the meantime illustrated and descriptive Catalogues of any of the above
lines posted free to any address.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT, MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY,
i 1
as
THE
Crutching
Machines
■are what you now need to overcome
the- evil effects of the noxious Blow-
fiy. ;
Wolseley Orutching Plants are all
of the standard Wolseley pattern; —
famous for ease of operation, relia-
bility and efficiency.
Write for descriptive folder, post
free.
Wolseley 1-, 2- or 3-Stand Cruteh-
ing Attachment affixed to Wolseley
Engine.
IN STOCK FOIt IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
Dalfgety CH Cb. Ltd.,
Australasia** Agents.
All Branches.
WOODWORKERS
-•- ■ : :
Here Is a Machine that will show a saving
in Time, Labor and Money on your present
Sanding Methods.
You need no longer burden your finishing department with old-fashioned Sanding Drums or
Spindles. A more practical Sander is here—one that can be rigged up quickly and easily for
Sanding almost any Shape or Size of Work. Call and inspect, or write for full descriptive
Catalogue of
■
The Mattison Block Belt Sander
It will eliminate the majority of that expensive handwork that you are now confronted with, and,
what is really more important, WILD GIVE A BETTER AND MORE UNIFORM FINISH.
Sole
Agents:
RRE
(EX
■
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE DORR COMPANY
Acts in a consulting capacity in connection with the design, con-
struction and operation of Hydrometallurgical, Wet Chemical and
Allied Industrial Plants and the conduct of Technical Investigations.
Australasian Representatives for the Dorr Company, and Licensees
for the Manufacture of the
Dorr Thickener, Dorr Classifier, Dorr Agitator.
7-
v *■/:<
;V:
Equitable Building,
350 George Street, Sydney,
to whom all enquiries should b'. u^ressed.
