

•The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. G. WATKIKTS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— . . . ,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
r.< r-r l-r r-r r— r -pr f
//A
W'V'
On all Classes of* Security
BIUJDS DISCOUNTED
Easy Terms Interest
N-S-V-M3NT DE PIETED-feKPU*'
HEAD OFFICE'74 CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY 74.
ixext to “Daily Telegraph" New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
ilii
7
Used in plenty
Hakes forty look
like twenty’
VALUABLE FORTAN
AND SUNBURN >
Made in Australia b/
ftaaiCKSTEAUSC?
SYDNEY.
MTTmrc
unußO
§
eg
GO
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors us being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
5U
u
gsfd
F«r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
■V • •v'-" • •- ’ #' • • V . " •• •. ■•- • .-X
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
■
You can rely on MALTHOID
The first requisite of any roofing is RELIABILITY. In this Malthoid excels.
The worst climate in the world can’t affect it; it resists fire; is a non-conductor
of heat, ensuring a warmer home in winter and a cooler in summer. There is
nothing nearly so good.
Write NOW for samples and interesting illustrated booklet, post free.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (D. 3. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, SYDNEY.
"Nat
the same
as
others
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY
L
• »
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAIL-WAV ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL. 8e FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER DISCS.
&
CO.
ARTH
g
“Robey” High-class Steam Engines, “National” Gas, Oil and Suction Gas
Engines, Steam Waggons, Road Graders, Scoops and Plows, Nestable Corru-
gated Metal Culverts, Concrete Mixers, Discus Church nriran Blowers, Malleable
Pipe Fittings, etc., etc. AESO MODERN MACHINERY FOR Road Building,
Earth Handling, Elevating and Conveying, Stone Breaking and Pumping and
Irrigating. Drawings and Suggestions gratis upon receipt of Requirements.
Head Office: Circular Quay , SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street
sdfg
SASVcf
HlOOl
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth!
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
th« Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V 01.38— No. 1942.]
[Thursday, May 3, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


COLE’S BOOK ARCADE.
Books Answering
SEX PROBLEHS
nppconA l HYGIENE FOR GIRLS, by Mary Humphries. 2/=, posted 2/3.
pFa?N FACTS ON SEX HYGIENE, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted 3/8.
rnMCiDFNTIAL CHATS WITH GIRLS, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted 3/8.
roNPinFN'UAL CHATS WITH BOYS, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted 3/8.
RPPATHE AND BE WELL, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted 3/8.
hpbcp, p Talks with Women Concerning Themselves. 6/6, posted 6/9.
TniiTHs ' Talks with a Boy Concerning Himself, by Lowry. 3/6, posted 3/8.
XAVIp MODESTY. By Dr. E. B. Lowry. 3/6, posted 3/8.
CONFIDENCES Talks with a Young Girl, by Dr. E. B. Lowry. 3/6, posted 3/8.
cp| N X‘hpip FOR NERVOUS WOMEN, by J. K. Mitchell. 3/6, posted 3/9.
SmPNTIA TALKS WITH YOUNG WOMEN, by L. B. Sperry. 4/-, posted 4/3.
CONFIDENTIAL TALKS WITH HUSBAND AND WIFE, by L. B. Sperry. 4/., posted 4/3
rONFIDPNTIA'L TALKS WITH YOUNG MEN, by L. B. Sperry 4/-, posted 4/3.
WHvrAYOUNG BOY OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/.. posted 5/2.
wUat a VoONU MAN OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall, 5/=, posted 5/2.
wEIt A YOUNG HUSBAND OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, posted 5/2.
A MAN OF 445 OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/=, posted 5/2.
HEALTH AND HAPPINESS. A Message to Girls, by E. M. Mosher. 3/6, posted 3/9.
WHAT
WHAT
Tokology
A BOOK
FOR EVERY
WOMAN.
fry
A. B. STOCKHAM
7/6, posted 7/9
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George, St., Sydney; and at Bourke St., Melbourne.
HUDSON'S EUHENTHOL JUJUBES
auj
TO'®
ON
HU
• uv; v
Suited for Old and Young, for
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption. *
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
The large sale for EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
has led to a number of imitations being manu-
factured under the name of menthol and other
jujubes. It iS important, therefore, when buying
to be sure and get HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES. You may be asked to buy other
jujubes, and be told they are “just as good”
as Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves
that these imitations and substitutes have no
reputation of their own, and can only be sold
on the good repute and high character of Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes. Sold by all Chemists.
Price Is. 6(1. per tin. [5
The Red Page
Your Soul; II.
The theory that your soul is a separate
unity meets a serious obstacle in the recent
discovery of the mysterious phenomena of
multiple personality. There are authenti-
cated cases of two or more totally different
selves manifesting themselves in turn in the
same body. Of the most remarkable of these
cases Pearson provides extraordinary details.
This is the case of Miss Beauchamp, described
by Dr. Morton Prince in The Dissociation
of a Personality. The patient was highly
neurasthenic, and in course of time four
different personalities appeared in her. Her
personality would change from hour to hour,
and with each change her character became
transformed. The- most remarkable person-
ality that appeared called herself “Sally.”
She enjoyed rude health and was full of fun,
vitality and mischief. When the three other
personalities were off the stage—or as Sally
put it, "dead” —they did not know what was
happening ; .but Sally’s existence ran on con-
comitantly with them all. She was never
“dead.” Three of the four personalities into
which Miss Beauchamp split up the doctor
called the saint, the woman and the devil.
B 1 closely x’esembled the typical saint of
literature. B 4 had all the frailties of tem-
per and self-interest of the average woman.
Sally was the devil. .She used to torment
the other selves, into which she could change
whenever she liked. She used to write B 1
letters td. annoy her, made B 1 tell lies,
sewed up her clothes at night, and played
other tricks upon the saint. She used to
keep the doctor informed of all that went on
in “the family,” as she called it. Once B 4
“awoke to find herself perched upon a shaky
structure composed of a couch, two chairs
and a dress-suit case. She was naked, and
iff an attitude as if posing for a statue.”
She could not move, but was able to cry
out. Sally had evidently got into that posi-
tion, and then changed into the unfortunate
84. She even scratched her own arms,
rubbed' lemon-juice into the scratches, and
then let B 4 wake up and feel the pain. But
she was sometimes quite good-natured. When
B 1 was delirious, Sally popped up at fre-
quent intervals, quite sane, and offered to
act as nurse, and to “come” at intervals to
take the food that Miss Beauchamp in her
delirium refused. Sally even wrote her auto-
biography. But in order to cure Miss Beau-
champ, Sally had to be suppressed, or, as she
put it, “sent back to where she came from.”
Seems a pity. But one proof of her identity
with the other personalities is striking.
Whenever Sally thought deeply on intellec-
tual subjects, she couldn’t help changing into
B 1 or 84. Evidently Sally was of sublimi-
nal origin. She insisted that she never slept,
she had a marvellous memory, was never
tired, and had a very imperfect sense of
time, like a child. Pearson, obviously per-
plexed by these phenomena, asserts that
Sally does not disprove the essential unity
of the soul.
Jit
As Pearson is committed to his theory he
has to admit that the soul must possess
secondary sexual attributes. A very inter-
esting chapter sums and examines the latest
theories of the causation of sex. “Every
human being has a soul which corresponds to
and registers the experience of the body with
which it is associated; and consequently, in
the matter of sex, every human being will
have a male or a female soul. Many of the
qualities now distinctive of sex have a value
which is wholly independent of the physical
function of reproduction, and consequently
there is no reason why they should perish
merely because the soul becomes dissociated
from the body.” And if there is to be recog-
nition between discarnate souls, it is impera-
tive that their essential qualities should per-
sist, and sex is perhaps the most important.
But Pearson does not suggest any way out
of the difficulty that at once arises. A child
loses his mother when he is an infant; he
grows up, marries and has children; his
wife dies; finally he dies. If there is recog-
nition of souls after death, his mother will
look to find her infant child; his wife will
want her lover and husband; Lis children
will seek their father. Can that soul be all
these B,t odcg V
Pearson is on more stable ground when
he suggests that the idea of a peaceful eter-
nity for souls is opposed to the principle of
evolution. Why shouldn’t evolution keep on
evoluting? The whole tendency of evolution
is to diverge into the various, not to converge
into the one. “We may reasonably infer
that the aim of evolution is a host of varied
personalities rather than an all-absorbing
one-ness in which individuality would be lost,
and that the power of survival enjoyed by
the mind-structure of the hydrogen atom will
not be denied to the human soul.”
,S*
Given his .theory, Pearson is compelled to
believe in reincarnation. But here he is up
against the difficulty of mental heredity. He
meets that obstacle by his assertion that your
soul, after death, will be drawn to a brain
fitted with the special sort of machinery
that will suit your soul-needs. But then,
we may ask, where would Leonardo da Vinci,
or Butters, or Shakspeare, or William Morris
Hughes find a new brain-machinery that
would enable those souls to express them-
selves’ Where will you discover another
brain that will suit vour own personality?
How tiie diScaruate soul is fitted to a new
brain Pearson cannot say, though he sug-
gests the possibility of something akin to
chemical affinity, which is really electrical,
or to some sort of harmony of vibration
between the two.
But the reincarnation of your soul will be
no good to you, you say, unless you remem-
ber your past. Pearson warns you to beware.
For that memory of your past that you wish
to retain would not be confined to your
latest life, it would extend back to a million
lives, back to the ape, the cytode, the atom.
“Over some few of his latest existences a
man might possibly linger with pleasure and
interest; but as he tracked his soul down-
ward through the darkness he would be faced
with all the grim story of its early career.
He would see himself revelling in a welter
of brutality and bloodshed, barely human in
form, and purely bestial in appetite.” Merci-
fully that door is closed. We still have the
water of some old ocean in our blood; the
germ-plasms of lower forms of life are woven
into our bodies and our brains. But while
these ancient elements in cur being are,slowly
dying out, nothing in the soul can be simi-
larly eliminated The soul records every-
thing ever happened to it. Better not ask
for memory to stimulate it.
Another difficulty is the improbability that
one existence should follow immediately upon
another. Pearson falls back upon Theoso-
phy, which allows the soul a long interval of
repose between births.
A remarkable essay in metaphysics, full
of interesting fact and ingenious theory; but
though to this page the author leaves his
elaborate theory non-proven, it is the sort of
theory for which absolute scientific proof
may ever be found. Yet the author has cer-
tainly tackled the tremendous subject from a
new and highly promising standpoint, the
doctrine of the evolution of matter. Though
in some of its details the theory evokes
scepticism and even laughter, the argument,
in its broad aspect, is a serious and valuable
contribution to an extremely difficult subject.
War
“The present war is a contest between
psychological forces. Irreconcilable ideals
are grappling with each other,” declares
Gustave le Bon, in The Psychology of the
Great War (Unwin). “Material weapons
are being utilised in the struggle, but they
are wielded by psychological forces.... All
nations possess an aggregate of inherited
feelings, which occasion those inextinguish-
able race-hatreds that are among the chief
causes of the European War.” And the
author goes on to develop his theory of the
crowd, of which he is the foremost exponent.
Briefly this theory may be put thus: The
mentality of men in crowds is absolutely
unlike that which they possess when iso-
lated, for an assemblage of men is as differ-
ent from the individuals of whom it is made
up as is any living being from its component
cells. This is a crowd war ; it is the entire
German nation which is fighting to-day, not
a sovereign or a military caste. The col-
lective military spirit of the nation had
already completely destroyed the civio
spirit. “The individual mind has only an
ephemeral existence, but the mind of the
race is permanent and not subject to disin-
tegration .... The history of civilised nations
is the story of their efforts to acquire this
permanent mind.... It is no exaggeration to
say that the fiercest fighting upon our fields
of battle is due to the innumerable hosts of
the dead more than to the living.” Every-
body possesses both an individual mind and
an ancestral mind, the former for use in
our daily actions, the latter to control and
guide us" upon great national occasions.
The German mind, however, has been
carefully transformed from the individual
mind into a collective mind. The German
thinks collectively, not only on great occa-
sions when he is under the emotional sway
of the crowd, but on everyday occasions.
The mental unification of a nation has never
before been carried to such an extent. All
Germans are the same German. The psycho-
logical unification of the masses is complete,
A single brain thinks inside 70 million heads.
Le Bon’s summary of the remote causes
of the war shows the small influence which
was exerted by rational elements at the
beginning of the war. If Germany had
thought, and not felt, about the war, she
would never have precipitated it. Germany
had already won her war of industry and
commerce; already she was the peaceful
conqueror of Europe. From a rational point
of view Germany was interested in prevent-
ing war, but mystic influence dominated her
entirely; and everything yields_ to those
deeper forces within us. “There is no more
touching sight than the struggles of. the
peace-loving diplomats who were pitted
against the haughty forces which were driv-
ing them into a terrible war. Never in the
course of the ages has there, perhaps, been a
better opportunity of seeing how men’s con-
duct is sometimes dominated by unconscious
influences whose pressure is so great that no
will can withstand them.”
J*
Answering the question, “Who wanted the
war?” the author comes to the conclusion
that no one did. But since war was declared
by the Kaiser, the responsibility for the war
is his. Le Bon thinks that though Germany
had made war certain by her increasing’
armaments and the arrogance of her diplo-
macy, she didn’t want it just then. He men-
tions the curious fact that on July 26,
1914, the German fleet was manoeuvering at
a great distance from its base, and could
not have coaled or taken on its full crews
if the British fleet had interfered. The imme-
diate cause of the conflict le Bon puts down
to “the mutual distrust of the three Emper-
ors.” The Kaiser was the most suspicious
of all, and that is why he will be held re-
sponsible for the war, since it was he who
made up his mind to declare it. He is also
to be held accountable for the atrocities,
“because no general would have dared to
order them without his permission.”
Discussing the difficulties of a permanent
peace, the author concludes that when Ger-
many has been sufficiently ruined industrially
and financially, the German will perhaps
acquire a few useful concepts, the first two
of which are: “It is not quite certain that
the Germans have been chosen by God to
devastate the world and then to reign over
it,” and “To massacre neighbors whom one
detests and to burn their monuments and
their cities is no doubt a very great pleasure ;
but it is a pleasure which costs extremely
dear in both men and money.” These truths
are obvious to all but the Germans, and le
Bon thinks that many millions of men must
perish before such truths can become motives
of conduct for the Germans. “A nation
chosen by God to conquer and regenerate the
world does not readily abandon such a mis-
sion, and Germany will not relinquish it
until she has been defeated many times.”
And the author ends on a grave note:
“The civilised nations are now exposed to
far more formidable perils than the loss of
their wealth and the vanishing of the best
elements among their populations; for they
are really threatened with the disappear-
ance of certain virtues which have been
acquired gradually and which have hitherto
been the glory and delight of civilisation,
but which have now become a danger to
those who possess them, and hence seem
doomed to pass away. Loyalty, integrity,
tenderness, respect for a promise and a
treaty, or, in a word, all the various forms
of honor, have become a source of weakness
in a struggle against nations which do not
respect such things, and perhaps they will
be unable to hold their own in the future;
but on the day when all these virtues have
perished forever, and when blind forces shall
rule the world, mankind will be condemned
to the most barbarous retrogression, and the
centres of civilisation will inevitably shift.”
J*
Is it humanly impossible for Philip Gibbs
to write another book on the war as fine as
The Soul of the War. In The Battles of the
Somme (Heinemann, per Dymock’s Library)
he implicitly admits as much. For this
later work is no attempt to probe further
into the soul of the war, but is merely a
reprint of Ms articles sent from the battle-
field, “pages written on the evenings of
battle, hastily and sometimes feverishly,
after days of intense experience and tiring
sensation.” For The Soul of the War was
written when Gibbs was a free-lance, and
now he is an officially accredited correspondent
with the British armies. His writing is as
vigorous as ever, but the book lacks the
breadth of his first work. He has become
a war-correspondent, he is no longer a
thoughtful literary artist. He has a good
deal to say about “those bronzed, hatchet-
faced, handsome fellows who brought a new
character of splendid manhood into the
medley of British types,” and their work in
the taking of Poziferes.
Incidentally oibbs denies the allegation
that war-correspondents are “spoon-fed”
with documents and facts given to them by
General Headquarters. “All we get from the
General Staff are the brief bulletins of the
various army corps, a line or two of hard
news about the capture or loss of this or
that trench such as appears afterwards in
the official communiques. For all the details
of an action we have to rely upon our own
efforts in the actual theatre of operations
day by day, seeing as much of the battle as
it is possible to see talking to the walk-
ing wounded and the prisoners, the_ men
going in and the men coming out, going to
headquarters.... for exact information as to
the progress of the battle, and getting in
touch as soon as possible with the battalions
actually engaged. All this is not as easy
as it sounds. It is not done without fatigue
and mental as well as physical strain. But
we have full facilities for seeing things, and
see more and know more of the whole battle-
line than is possible even to Divisional Gen-
erals. For we have a pass enabling us to
go to any part of the Front at any time and
get the facts and points of view from every
class and rank, from the trenches to G.H.Q.
Because the correspondents • sometimes tell
the same stories it is because we tell them
to each other, not believing in professional
rivalry in a war of this greatness.” But
he confesses that his articles do not tell all
the truth. He has had to spare the feelings
of men and women who have sons and hus-
bands still lighting in France. “I have not
told all there is to tell about the agonies of
this war, nor given in full realism the hor-
rors that are inevitable in such fighting.”
Gibbs tells of the prisoners taken at
Pozieres that they regarded themselves as
sheep sent to the slaughter. “They knew
only that the Australians were in front of
them, and from what they have heard of
the Australians they did not have much
hope.” And he adds: "The Australians are
still fighting in a way which wins the admi-
ration of their Generals and Staff and of all
the army. These clean-cut men, so fine in
physique and appearance that one always
turns to look at them in any street of war,
are not stolid fellows who can stand the test
of shell-fire without suffering in spirit. They
are highly strung and sensitive, with a more
nervous temperament than many of our Eng-
lish soldiers, but they have a pride and an
heroic quality that keeps them steady, and
an intelligence in the individual as well as
in mass which makes them great soldiers.”
Jt
In John Buchan’s lucidly written The
Battle of the Somme: ,First Phase (Nelson,
per Sydney Book Club, Is. fid.) the author
has similar praise for Billjim. “The Aus-
tralian Corps was second to none in the new’
British Army.” After the capture ot
PoziSres, Buchan says: “Out of the dust
and glare would come Australian units
which had been relieved, long, lean men with
the shadows of a great fatigue around their
deep-set far-sighted eyes. They were per-
fectly cheerful and composed, and no Low-
land Scot was ever less inclined to expan-
sive speech. At the most they would admit
in their slow quiet voioes that what they
had been through had been ‘some battle.’
Buchan declares that the first battle of
the Somme ended in victory ; for his argu-
ment is that the success or defeat of a
strategic purpose is the sole test. Judging
by this, Tannenberg was a victory for Ger-
many, the Marne for France, and the first
battle of Ypres for Britain. The- battle of
the Somme was no less a victory, since it
achieved the Allied purpose and frustrated
that of the enemy.
J*
Leonid Andreyeff, the Russian dramatist,
adventures in a different genre in his Con-
fessions of a Little Man During Great Days
(Duckworth, per Dymock’s Library). This
is an intimate diary of a typical Petrograd
minor bank official during the war. The
soul of this insignificant atom, reacting to the
awfulness of the W'ar, is portrayed with an
exquisite tenderness. “I am 45 years old,”
he complacently writes, “and no matter what
happens, I will never under any circum-
stances be called to the colors. This is a
thing it would hardly be safe to say to others.
I hax’e to be somewhat of a humbug at times
and pretend, as all the rest do, that if I
were younger and stronger and so on, I
should most certainly join as a volunteer, but
at bottom I can’t help rejoicing that I can
stop at home and not have to expose myself
to some silly bullet.” You see, he is abso-
lutely truthful —in his diary. He is firmly
convinced that he doesn’t like this war at
all. “When I imagine myself standing in
some clear field at the Front, men aiming
at me with rifle and gun with intent to kill
-—-aiming, straining, bursting to hit me—-I
find it ridiculous; it seems like some silly
practical j0ke....1 have never harmed any-
one in my life, and I have a perfect right
to demand that no one shall harm me by
shooting me down like a sparrow. I didn’t
want the war. Wilhelm did not send his
ambassadors to me to find out if I wanted
to fight; he just said ‘fight,’ and that’s all.”
But the war declines to let him alone. His
wife joins a war hospital and neglects her
home and children. “The war has no right
to thrust itself among us like a brigand, and
lay waste our home.” His brother-in-law. is
killed; the bereaved mother comes to live
with them. “A huge pair of hands seem to
hold me in their grasp, moulding me into
some fantastic shape, hands that are too
strong for resistance.” His little daughter
dies; there are so few doctors left that she
is attended to too late. His bank fails and
he loses his job. He nearly goes out of his
mind. Awful details of the massacre of the
Armenians prostrate him —and Andreyeff
knows how to wring the last drop of horror
from, the gruesome. He determines to com-
mit, suicide. But at the last moment illumi-
nation comes to him ; he sees himself in all
his callous selfishness; and he volunteers for
the Front in an ambulance unit.
So simple and moving is this ordinary tale
that the reader hardly suspects the great art
of the author. For the. soul that Andreyeff
so startlingly illuminates is not the soul of
a Russian bank-clerk but the soul of you
and me. Or it ought to be.
•
Entries close for the vers Hire competition,
upon some aspect of the war, next Saturday.
From the Librairie Chapelot, Paris, comes
a remarkably complete and valuable collec-
tion of reproductions of French. Allied,
neutral and enemy cartoons upon Verdun,
with expository letterpress. Verdun , Images
de Guerre (fi francs in Paris) is of immedi-
ate and will be of historic interest; and
the quality of many of the compositions is
extremely high.


we
i. 5102 . —For short- to
medium-height figure of
average fulness, medium bust.
Sizes 21 to 28 4/11
%
IZOD’S CORSETS are the LAST WORD in ENGLISH
Corset manufacture. They are made of SEVERELY=
TESTED CLOTHS to suit Australian conditions, and
are FAVORITES with LADIES who APPRECIATE
a GRACEFUL FIGURE. NO CORSET at ANY PRICE
can give MORE COMFORT and SATISFACTION than
this RENOWNED make. Write for price list, illus=
trating the various models, posted free on request.
No. 5 144. — For me diu m-
height, slight- to medium-
build figures, medium bust.
Sizes 20 to 26 6/11
Corse/s
have qualities
which make for
DURABILITY.
There is a
perfects itting
model for every
figure and a
price for every
purse. Several
of the models
have double
skirts.
&
*
a **
«r
4 nil WZh
v '
No. 5111. A Splendid Model for
the average figure, slightly
free hip effect. Sizes 21 to
28 8/11
°OO
Sfc
1
No. 5145. For the short,
matronly type of figure.
Sizes 21 to 28 6/11
m
, a
-W
5308. A double-skirt Batiste
Model, for average to stout
figures. Sizes 22 to 36 10/11
Costs e/s
All the GOOD
POINTS which
a lady demands
in a corset are
contained in
every model, in-
cluding Duplex
Boning, which
obviates dis-
comfort.
!
cs>.
•j
No. 5324.
a*
c
rle
// //
tJ./AMS
: I4
No. 5167
\
Of
63
No. 5324. For slight figures, ill Mercerised Jean, with embroidered Silk
Spot. Sizes 20 to 26 13/11
No. 5167. —For average figures, with full bust, in Ooutil. Sizes 22
to 30 11/11
WE
GUARANTEE
EVERY PAIR
OF
IZOD’S CORSETS
TO WASH, and
NOT TO BREAK,
RUST or TEAR.
Every Model is
PERFECT in
FIT and
SHAPE.
'WSJ
U
No. 5320.
y==
No. 5350.
No. 5326. —For any medium to stout figure, in double-skirt
Batiste. Sizes 23 to 3G 14/11
No. 5350. For average figures, low bust, ill soft-finish Coutil.
Sizes 21 to 28 16/11
& SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHfSttR
a
*w
mi
in i a
Ik
'M
Wk
'n
■7
'/r
a '
,i»i
hammerless shotguns
MODEL 1912
Extra tight Weight
Made In 12,16 and 20 Gauges
There s no need of carrying a
heavy gun. The use of Nickel
Steel makes it possible to get ex-
treme light weight with great
strength. But it costs more, and
so is not generally used. Win-
chester Model 1912 shot-
guns are constructed
tirely of nickel steel, which
makes it the lightest and
strongest gun on the
market. It is very hand-
some besides, and a relia-
ble, fine-shooting gun. Be
sure to see one before buy- <
ing. Sold by all dealers, j
ME REPEATER PAR EXCELLENCE fi
n ARE YOU n
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do vou
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW : it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRFS-
SURE on the CORRECT 'SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
\Y7hen you want
~ a Soap to cleanse
the skin thoroughly, keep it
in healthy condition, and
remove all traces of
perspiration—get
Calverts
Toilet Soap
A good Soap to choose for
everyday use—pure, pleasantly
perfumed and antiseptic.
In .1 tablet boxes from
local Chemists & Dealers.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.
Manchester, England.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
. Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
piust be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt' Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
-zZZeZvn*
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
505
\
A
The
American
Indian—
used to pull out the
hairs on his face to
prevent the growth
of a beard. Even such
torture is almost
preferable to the use
of some shaving
soaps of today.
If your face burns
after shaving—if the
lather dries before you are through, or if you have
to soften the beard by "rubbing in,” you are using
the wrong shaving preparation.
i
SHAVING CREAM
(IN A COLLAPSIBLE TUBE)
not only softens the beard, but leaves a cooling effect upon the skin-
makes a smooth, thick lather which does not dry.
Once used , always used — "MENNEN’S ”
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS and STORES
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street *
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St.. Sydney, N. S. W.
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN.
C.BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Priate Medals.
dsf
Works i Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TRADE MARK
Great
Chances for
Sportsmen S Farmers!
further
REDUCTIONS.
® action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with W. W. Greener patent wedge-fast crossbolt.
‘ CHAMPION
• O&mjrSJStfhm. %*£»**£ aliff.’Sß mb
PAB& D.B.M.L. GUNS.
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 2O/-
Colts Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
SB RABBIT RTPTRcr i,ni t , Usual Price, £6/6/-. SALE PRICE, £3/5/.
>,.8. RABBIT RIFLES, kill at 100 yards _ Usual Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6
„ i /repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
' 6en« for our Illustrated Catalogue-—Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CQ„ 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MFLBOURive.
Mr. W. B. STEVENS, Cycle Manufacturer and Expert, in business at
24 King Street, Newtown, N.S.W., and residing privately at 32 Jersey
Road, Woollahra, writes—May 31, 1916—0 f
CLEMENTS TONIC
. -M r -. Stevens is a noted English and Australian athlete, having won many
distinguished races and trophies in Australia. Here is his letter in part:—
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“One of the worst forms of taxation is that of ill-health. In this competitive
age, a man needs to be at his best. I won my first race at the age of 20, and I
apa still hale and hearty, only that I am sometimes troubled by want of sleep,
llns is where Clements Tonic comes in to my relief. Before I have taken half a
bottle of that medicine I sleep splendidly and wake up fresh and well, quite ready
for a good meal and prepared to face a good hard day’s work at my business.
“(Signed) W. B. STEVENS.”
Mr. FREDERICK C. CROUCH, 51 Moncur Street, Woollahra, Sydney,
writes 20/4/’16 —that he is perfectly agreeable that this letter should be
published, which is given by his wife, because she has derived so much
benefit from this medicine:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“For a considerable period I suffered from loss of appetite, extreme nervous-
ness and poorness of blood. A friend recommended Clements Tonic. I obtained
a supply and I have derived great benetit. I feel perfectly safe in recommending
your tonic to anyone similarly affected. You may use this letter as you think fit.
“(Signed) Mrs. E. M. CROUCH.”
This is the kind of letter to appeal to all men and women, for it proves that,
m cases of mental and physical exhaustion caused through overwork and excess of
any kind, this reliable tonic restores strength rapidly. Send for it if you are ill
from Constipation. Loss of Sleep, Biliousness, Poor Appetite, Low Spirits, Weak
Kidneys or Neuralgia. All Chemists and Stores sell it.
This Medicine is regarded by some as the
Twin-brother of Health.
In cases of Poor Blood, Wasting Weakness, Debility, Loss of Rest, Poor
Appetite, Biliousness, feick Headache, Bow Spirits, Insomnia, Constipation Liver
or Kidney AiImemts.CLEMENTS TONIC is most reliable for giving the system
strength. ALL CIILMISIS AND STORES SELL IT. It is onlv another name
for health.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
warranted fifteen years .
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flye«
. or Brook's Saddles, etc.
gsdfgsfd
latest
MODELS
; £3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept fl 282 LIVERPOOL,
CELEBRATED
&
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young’ —hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don't feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Cd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—■
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [I
m
: *
m
:vx
,\v'
gsfd
Series
With
These
are HONEST SERGES- Pure
Wool, Fast Dye and Thoroughly
Shrunk. Such Serges, in Blue or
Black, never fail to give satisfactory
wear and to keep their appearance
GENUINE
FOX SERGES
have these brands stamped once in
every yard so that discriminating
buyers may recognise them at once
Made by Fox Bros. &Co Ltd., Somerset, Eng. If
you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally, write to the
agents: Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802,
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest
storekeeper stocking it.
gsd
Tobacco
Rills!
fgsdf
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user .of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and post you? under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces." Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR CSX CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
In Grandpa’s Courting Days
—Yes, as long ago as that —there was a standard, safe-
and-sure, proved effective family remedy for
all throat and chest troubles, and its name was
s;
-4
1
To-day it is still the safest, speediest,
surest Remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis Whooping Cough and
Influenza, relief of Asthma and a
preventive of Pneumonia. If it isn t
Bonnington’s it isn t any good.
Large & Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
g
If you must rear
baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches most closely to
Mother’s Milk, and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and proved equivalent
to Mother’s Milk; its success is evidenced by
world-wide recommendation. Simple to prepare;
no tedious cooking—it is alike a boon to the
nursing mother and satisfying to the child.
Then there’s
his Bottle
Mellin’s Feed-
ing Bottle is
the perfect and
si m Die Feeder,
Mellin's
Food
Write NOW for sample of Mellin’s Food and useful Handbook
for Mothers “ The Care of Infants in Australia” post free.
MESSRS.. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
What we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
7
"T'HE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
* in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to 'his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. He
gets the best out of himself and out of life —and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation —the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
a/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents
Messrs. H. & W. GFt EAR, 287-283, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E.GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pan-Folk.
Do you remember a radiant day,
With neither woman nor man to thank
For the purple shadows among the trees
And the filching hands of the perfumed
breeze
In the flowers on the bank,
When Pan came galloping through your life?
Swift and soft as an eyelid blinks,
Ilis hoofs and hair were real to you,
Ills bright face laughed the brown trunks
through,
And you heard the wild syrinx.
It might have been in the hush of reeds,
Where naiads hid by the river’s brim,
You saw the prick of a pointed ear
And knew at last that the gods drew near —
And turned.... to welcome him !
Do you remember the red-lipped sun
Lifting over the ragged crests,
The pigeon cooing somewhere unseen,
The dart of a swallow’s flight between,
And the mossy woven nests?
A broken leaf in a bed of clay,
The smell of resin and sap and dew,
And the crooked path in the timber set
And the fragile bluebell with petals wet,
By the way Pan came to you?
Do you remember the hot, still noon,
The gum-leaves crushed and the far off
smoke,
How close you lay to the friendly earth
And whispered her of the marvellous birth
On the day that Pan awoke?
Do you remember the yellow eve, *
The sun reluctant to go so soon,
The pine boughs singing a lullaby
And suddenly, in the empty sky,
The shadow of the moon ?
Do you remember the first white star
That like the light of a far ship shone,
The rushy fringes that seemed to sigh
The sob of a dying melody
Till you knew that Pan had gone?
Oh, not to everyone does he come !
The gods lift veils for a favored few ;
But I saw hinr once —yes, that I vow !
Though it may be a hundred years from
now!
I saw hipi close —did you?
Then you march to the call of a single pipe
Apart from the human caravan,
Keep pace to a rebel rhapsody—
For never the same can the boundaries be
When you follow the feet of Pan!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
April Laughter.
April is blowing her bubbles of blue
O’er coverts of daisies all dappled with dew,
And wily wind elves as they pelt her with
pla-y,
Sing, “Hi! hilly-ho ! It’s a very fine day !
So ho ! for the maiden,
With lily-love laden,
Who’s decking herself in a dimity gown,
With touches of pearl on her orange-wreath
crown,
That cuddles her tresses of wallflower brown !
The cream’s in the cup and the candies are
cut
In tiny pink piles in the honeymoon house,
Where Time has a tub of caresses to drink,
And every white minute a chuckle to clink.
And ho ! for the lover
She soon will discover;
When noon nodding over her goblet of sun
Wakes up with a wink at the sound of the
fun,
To drown in the dusk ere the frolic is done!
Oh, I am the maiden and you are the boy,
Our wedding-bells ring in the attic of Joy,.
Where Youth takes a kiss ’neath a lattice
of Love
From Beauty and Innocence meek as a dove.
Then ho! for the laughter
That rings to the rafter,
As over the ridge of our kisses we l'ide,
And tingling wfith mirth of the oncoming
tide,
We slip into Eden to sleep side by side.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Glamor.
The high, immortal Powers
Have done me grievous wrong:
They have turned the heart in my breast
To a little fiery song.
They have played a magic upon me
Of old, immutable words,
Of the noon-mist, and the moon-mist,
And the crying of birds.
I have neither sorrow nor joy ;
All things are not as they were;
Because of your lips and your laughter,
And the dark fire of your hair.
N.S.W.
FRITZ S. BURNELL.
Lachrymal.
I saw a woman pleading with wet eyes,
Ere yet the pangs of labor stifled pain,
That he who bought her soul with specious
lies
Might give the child at least his worth-
less name.
Light laughter broke across his scornful lips
And careless words stung like a bitter
frost... .
They found her body ’mid the harbor ships,
And she was counted as a poor thing lost.
Time sped, and to the halls of final doom
A man came leprous with the sins of
years;
And 10, a woman crossed the hopeless gloom
To lave that awful soul with falling tears.
QUEENSLAND.
HALF-MOON.


PERDRMU
KEEP
THE
HOME
TYRES
TURNING”
Perdriau Tyres and
other Rubber Goods
are entirely Manu-
factured in Australia.
;
- »
»
HP
is
m
o
e
TYRES
The MILES WILL TELL
that the Cost of Motoring on
PERDRIAUS per mile is con-
siderably less than in the case of any other Tyre.
Only the Highest Quality of Fabric and Rubber
is used in the making of PERDRIAUS, which
cannot be surpassed.
The three broad strong ribs of the PERDRIAU
running fore and aft take a firm grip on the road,
meeting it with an absence of “rubbing” motion,
and by reducing friction keep down the Tyre bills.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Go. Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH, NEWCASTLE.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
a
OENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
sdfg
sd
°QlLO''
CROESUS
If he were alive to-day, Croesus would
save money by buying “Plume” Motor
Spirit. When you drive on “Plume” you
drive mostly on air which costs you
nothing, the necessity of a large amount of
air for the perfect combustion of “Plume”
being one of its strong characteristics. No
other spirit takes such a large proportion of
air as
Plume Motor Spirit
Easij Starting—Sweet Running—More Miles
As your carburetter takes only a certain
volume of mixture, the greater the per-
centage of air in the mixture the less your
expense for Motor Spirit. This alone
would prove “Plume” to be the most
economical spirit to use.
Correct Lubrication
The correct lubricating oil in your motor
will overcome carbon deposit and friction.
Gargoyle Mobiloils give perfect lubrication.
Write for free Recommendation Chart,
which shows the oil you should use in your
car. “A grade for each type of Motor.”
For sale at all dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
9
7c> R6 f'V N
V&*/ L O*V
\\)n
'
How 8% Shortage of Air-Space, in Tyres,
may cost 25% of the CAR life!
SOLID Bubber Tyres would last
much longer on Pleasure Cars
than “Pneumatics.”
Yet nobody so uses them!
Because, what Solid-Bubber or
Steel might save on Tyres, would
represent only a fraction of the
additional Wear and Tear they
would cost on Motor, and Car-
Mechanism—through excessive Vi-
bration, Boad-Shock and “Cruelty”
to Passengers.
The shorter Mileage of Pneu-
matic Tyres must therefore be
balanced against the longer-life of
the CAB and the Luxury, or Com-
fort, PUBPOSE, for which that
CAB was primarily purchased.
* * * *
THE higher the Air-Pressure you
must carry, in Pneumatic
Tyres, the less pneumatic they
are—the nearer they come to the
Solid-Bubber Tyre result, on Car
Mechanism and Car Occupants.
But —per contra —when lowered
Air-Pressure is carried in Tyres
(admitting of more than 14% of
the Tyre Cross-Section diameter
being in-contact-with-the-road) you
not only handicap the power of your
Car, but you Wear out, and Burn
out, Tyres long before their proper
Mileage has been rendered.
So there you are—“between the
Devil and the Deep Sea”!
What to do ?
WHEN your Tyres are Under-
Sized for the Weight of
your Car and its Occu-
pants, you MUST use an exces-
sively-high Air-Pressure in order to
keep off-the-earth more than the
proper 14% of Tyre Cross-Section
Diameter.
That excessively-high Pressure is
then not only a cause of excessive
Vibration, but it also causes an
excessive strain on the Fabric walls
of the Tyre, tending toward prema-
ture “bursts.”
If you carry less Air-Pressure—
to wit, a normal , Comfortable, and
non-vibrating pressure—the exces-
sive load (in proportion to Tyre
Area) wears out your Tyres in short
order, while using up your Petrol
extravagantly.
0, you need the EIGHT SIZE
of Tyre—the FULL-SIZE
specified by the Car Maher —
for satisfactory results.
That is why you should be inter-
ested in knowing that all millimeter
Tyres except GOODKICH are
UNDER- SIZED.
Measure them, and see!
Then bear in mind that Goodrich
FULL-SIZE Millimeter Tyres cost
you no more than same quality of
“regular” (or Under-sized) Tyres.
GOODRICH
FULL-
SIZED
DUVAL & CO.
13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
145 Collins Street, Melbourne
300 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TYRES


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.-No. 1942.
THURSDAY, MAY 3, 1917.
Price 6d.
CROCKING THE CRIB. [Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]
THE NEW ASSISTANT: “Garh, you mean dog! I’ve got to do all the work and you're taking more'n half of the swag!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
• Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, .or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to _ be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Soil,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N.' Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnore Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 16dz.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Sloz. to 10oz., Zld.:
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ylleiz/fc.
THURSDAY, MAY 3, 1917.
ON THE RIGHT OF KINGS TO BE
HANGED FOR THEIR OWN GOOD.
The world’s kings grow scarce. With
Russia a Republic and the dynasties of Cen-
tral Europe quaking in the midst of hunger-
strikes and cannon smoke, the emblematic
person with the beard and the gold hat shows
signs of fading almost entirely away. Re-
publican sentiment is strong in many mon-
archical lands; and the near future may see
quiet abdications representing the scared
side-stepping of red and dangerous things
which can no longer be concealed. Even in
England H. G. Wells puts in a plea for
republicanism, or, at any rate, for the free
discussion of republican ideas. Exactly
what he means is not easy to gather. He
seems, however, to suggest that republican-
ism and kingship run very well in double-
harness; and, paradox though it appear, he
is quite right there. Republicanism does not
exclude the idea of kingship. The Ameri-
can President is for the three years of his
office much more a king in the old sense than
the limited monarchs who reign for a life-
time over other democracies and hold their
sceptres by Act of Parliament. The original
king, the Caning, was the person who could
do things; and if kingship consists in doing
things and having some responsible person at
the head of the State, every republican Presi-
dent perpetuates the kingly idea. The mon-
archy is a reality still, whatever name you
give to it and whatever form the government
of a country may take. Our own word
“Commonwealth” is the best possible transla-
tion of the original Latin “respublica” ; yet
the Commonwealth, in spite of the demo-
cratic suggestion in the title, supports seven
vice-regal establishments of a non-elective
character. So, too, the coins of the first
Napoleon bear the inscription, “Republique
Frangaise, Napoleon Empereur.” In getting
down to bedrock it is necessary to recognise
that names in the sphere of government
carry no sure and fixed meaning. Vital
democracy might exist under an alleged
despotism, just as there may be bitter oppres-
sion and the denial of all free citizen rights
under a so-called republic.
*
Very few people realise at the present day
all that we owe to the stern, hard-faced arbi-
ters who sent Charles I. of England to the
scaffold. Other kings had been murdered;
this king, in an age when many supersti-
tions combined to make the royal person
sacred, was tried on evidence, proved a
traitor and put to death. Anybody will tell
you how that shook up the idea of kingship
and weakened it forever. But that is only-
half the story. The execution of Charles,
in point of fact, gave a practical utility to
many of the kings who followed. A king in
his Divine right, sacred and stupid, was a
menace and a nuisance to his people; a king
with the shadow of an axe always over him
became quite a useful working cog in a piece
of more or less democratic machinery.
Turning back to the original kingship as it
was in England, and comparing systems
which have been tried through the ages, it
does not seem as if that early idea had been
bettered much at any time. The West Saxon
line of kings, descendants of Egbert, who
first ruled over a united England, were
elected to their thrones. That the succession
usually followed from father to son is not
difficult to understand when it is remembered
that the members of the Wessex royal family
—gracious-mannered men of big brain and
splendid presence—could be distinguished
anywhere in England and in any company
by their appearance alone. Kings like that
were sure of election before they went to the
poll; but the elective notion persisted, and,
in the time of stress and doubt that marked
the end of the exclusively Saxon rule,
Harold, the grandson of pig-feeders, was
chosen to be King of England. Rude as the
Saxon monarchy was —yet the thing was not
so rude that could keep a patrol fleet of 500
ships of war to prevent the importation of
murder and rapine—it had in it most of the
essentials of the Republic. The people all
had the right to vote if they could get to the
polling-booth; any citizen could elect himself
a member of Parliament and fire off a speech
when he had something to say. The exist-
ence of a king did not prevent these things.
It guaranteed them; and it was to the King
himself that the appeal was always made for
fair-play. Even to-day the need for such a
king exists, as is proved by the fact that
republics always elect a responsible head.
The monarchical idea has been dragged
through the mud of Divine right and sacred
prerogative, bolstered by churchmen, de-
nounced by patriots and generally pampered
and walloped until it hardly knows itself;
but essentially it is sound, and no better
human expedient has yet been evolved.
Under a limited monarchy the hereditary
notion has defeated itself and destroyed most
of the value of the kingship; but a strong,
plain king of the British republic might still
fill a vital part in the scheme of things. The
King still possesses the power of suggestion
and veto; and without being in politics, as
the American President is, he could influence
administration and add to national security.
In a word, the re-introduction of the old
English elective principle into the business
of the kingship would bring limited mon-
archy close up to ideal republicanism.
* * * *
But the most important reform necessary
in connection with the modern kingship is
the restoration of personal responsibility.
In the tremendous matters of peace and
war every monarch, whether called president,
emperor or king, has at least theoretically
the power of veto over the acts of his Min-
isters. That power which carries with it
the issue of life and death to millions of
people should be made a life-and-death mat-
ter to the person possessing it also. As
things are to-day the nation may suffer for
the rashness or ambition of its official head;
but the power really responsible meets no
punishment greater than a compulsory retire-
ment from his job—usually on a very liberal
allowance. The shadow of the axe which
hung over the successors of Charles I. has
almost faded away and kings can treat their
responsibilities as lightly as they will. In
the present terrific controversy of steel and
fire the Kaiser stands as the central figure.
Just what his personal part in the affairs
that led up to the war may have been it
is impossible to say with certainty ; but it
can be said without a shadow of doubt or
hesitation that Wilhelm could have pre-
vented the whole calamity. His crime lies
in that he did not prevent it, but whooped
loudly and continuously for the murder of
nations. For the good of the future and
the benefit of all kings, emperors, presidents
and potentates to follow, Wilhelm should be
hanged—hanged without ornament or cir-
cumstance in a common prison yard as a
common felon. Thereafter the right of
kings to be hanged if they cause or permit
crimes against humanity must be solemnly
established. The three-years king of a
republic or the life-president of a monarchi-
cal State must make his decisions with the
rope in full view, arid with a complete
understanding of the personal discomfort of
an untidy death if those decisions are on the
side of international crime. In this way
the king may be made a most potent factor
for peace. The Minister at the council
table of such a sovereign dare not urge war.
To do so would be to slip the potential noose
over his chief’s head. Arguments for peace
might be advanced; but if the situation
seemed to demand war, the most that any
statesman could do would be to put the
facts plainly before the person most con-
cerned and leave him to decide. When a
king or president, with the tremendous
weight of his responsibility forced home by
his own personal dread of consequences, did
turn down a thumb and order out the battle-
gong, it might be taken for granted that
the cause was of no common sort; but the
very fact that such was the case would
probably drive the rival potentate at the
head of the opposing nation to prayer and
dove-flying. Once the principle was firmly
established kings would rejoice in the new
arrangement and count the right to be hanged
as among their choicest privileges. Also the
king who wasn’t a king would side-step his
job and doff his gold hat with great enthusi-
asm in the light of a responsibility that
carried a rope in its outfit. Let us talk
about republicanism by all means, about
kingship, too, and the essential facts of
leadership. But. the shadow of the gallows
on the screen of international politics is the
thing to which the immediate future may
look for protection against royal fireworks
and ambitious throat-cutting.
THE PARTY THAT WAS BORN IN
THE GUTTER AND HAS NEVER
GOT OUT OF IT.
Convention is one of the strongest forces
in the world. We do all sorts of foolish
things because other people, whom we think
a little bit better socially or otherwise than
ourselves, do them. In every general elec-
tion tens of thousands of votes are thus cast
on one side or other for no better reason than
that it is regarded as the “proper thing” to
cast them that way. The cunning election
manager therefore strives to show that his
crowd is the “respectable” party, for whom
all the “best people” should vote. This
paper is not much concerned as to how the
“best people” will vote on Saturday. The
so-called best people are, as a rule, socially
and nationally the most worthless people;
and the Freetrade, anti-Australian party led
by Joe Cook seems fairly entitled to them.
But to those who think that the Phewsion
party is the “respectable” party in this elec-
tion, in the sense of being the party of
decency, this paper is interested in saying a
little.
When War struck Australia the electors
found themselves with a Liberal Govern-
ment. There was a general election. That
Government was thrown out and passed
into Opposition with the explanation that its
sole object in life would be to assist the in-
coming Ministry in prosecuting the war and
everything incidental thereto and in preserv-
ing unity of purpose among tlie citizens of
the Commonwealth. For a couple of years
it maintained this attitude, at times pomp-
ously drawing attention to the correctness
of its pose. “Let us not waste time quarrel-
ling about other things, but sustain one
another in the good work. We have no
fault to find with the Government. It is
doing fine. Every man and woman should
be behind the Government, trusting it in
this hour of great trial. We must be Aus-
tralians first and stand a united people and
Parliament against the common enemy.”
That was the daily sermon of Liberalism.
Then the earthquake happened, and a Min-
istry that was a jest even to itself emerged
from the disturbance signalling for assist-
ance. “Aha ! This looks like where we come
in,” mused the Liberal junta. And, after
hard bargaining, it came in. To assist the
Government? To unite the people? Nothing
of the sort! Liberalism forgot all about its
former tests of virtue. On all patriots
there now suddenly devolved the duty of
hating Labor like the Devil. There was
nothing now about having a “united front”
or “standing together.” The main thing
was to loathe everything but the Phewsiou,
and everybody who omitted to feel that way
became a sympathiser with the Germans, a
pariah, a scoundrel whose guilt clamored
for vengeance. Men who a few months ago
were “proud to co-operate” with the Minis-
try then in office; men who were personally-
identified with that Ministry and extollhd
the personal and collective patriotism of
their mates; newspapers which insisted that
the Ministry and Parliament were entitled
to the support and confidence of the citizens
-—all these men and most of these papers
are now howling themselves hoarse that the
Phewsionists are the only true-blue patriots
and that people who are not Libs, care
nothing for their country.
The Bulletin holds that this campaign
of vilification and perjury not only is not
respectable but is grossly indecent—that a
political party seeking to gain momentary
advantage by raising such an issue is morally
guilty of treason. Men who would make
party a test of loyalty cannot be patriots.
They are either too small and too narrow-
minded or they are plainly and bluntly dis-
honest men, prepared to use any 7 means at
all to gain their own ends. That they have
disgusted and alarmed the more intelligent
and serious section of the electors who
usually vote on that side is notorious. Even
among themselves there are men whose con-
ceptions of the fair deal have suffered daily
outrage during the progress of this con-
spiracy to win an election by stirring the
passions and prejudices of the people with
lies of the basest kind. They know, and know
well, that the individual who charges his
neighbor with being an enemy of Australia
because he rejects the gospel of Cook is
worse than a mere liar, for such an
individual is sowing seeds of which the har-
vest may be more perplexing than all the
prickly pear in Bananaland. This paper
has never had any doubts about the serious-
ness of this war to Australia, nor wavered
in its opinion that the people of the country
should fight with all their soul against the
enemy who assailed them. Everything lias
been at stake and is so still. It has been a
cause of the gravest regret to The Bulle-
tin that the people of Australia have for
the most part been treated as children in rela-
tion to the struggle, and that the State and
Commonwealth Parliaments have dismally
failed to discharge their obligations to the
nation, not only in respect to the enlistment
of men for service (on that point there is
less room for censure than on any other),
but over the whole field of administration
and finance and preparation for the problems
of peace created for Australia by the march
of external events. Criticism of Parliaments
on this score springs legitimately from con-
siderations of public policy. Ministries may
be mistaken ; they may take a wrong view;
they may be fat-headed, lazy, feeble. But
to charge them or any other body of public
men or political parties with being traitors,
anxious to lose the war, conspirators against
the public safety, is another thing altogether. It
is this that the Phewsion is doing. It has
gone up and down the country pouring out
poison-gas against its political opponents;
bawling that it is the Win-the-War party ;
asking the electors to choose between being-
followers of Cook and Hughes and adher-
ents of a criminal and disloyal and pro-
German organisation. The Phewsion with
this dishonest and unpatriotic and greatly
harmful pretence covers the history of its
own formation, the story of those weeks of
ignoble negotiation, the facts to winch the
men and women it defames can point in
answer to the deluge of slander poured upon
them —it covers up all these things behind
its cry of “Vote for Fusion and win the
war.” No dirtier, no more dishonest cry
has ever been raised in Australia. No more
sinister untruth has ever been suggested.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
MY UN-SELECTORATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Other men have Commonwealth electorates;
I have a Commonwealth rejectorate in
Bourke, that Victorian constituency which
includes the Germanically-named swell
suburbs of Brunswick, Coburg and Heidel-
berg. Another man holds that seat
because more people voted for him than for
me; and the same scurvy reason in a
ridiculously small way is to blame for the
fact that West Sydney is not my elector-
ate but my un-selectorate, which was deter-
mined on the manciple of preference to
industrial unionism and other things too
numerous to mention.
West Sydney begins at the' water-front
in Sydney Cove and strikes up to Chip-
pendale and a shockingly misnamed place
called Golden Grove (it was named for a
ship of the early days) into Darlington;
thence to the old Parramatta-road, taking
in Forest Lodge and a bit of Camperdown,
all of Glebe to the water at Glebe Point,
and thence by the water line to the point
of commencement. It includes the cradle
of settlement in Australia —the Rocks, before
tlie old officers’ quarters were built in Dalley-
street by the Tank Stream, and when the
Gaol was in Gloucester-street and seven men
were hanged in a row for stealing bread from
the public store.
The crazy rubble cottages of the poor
used to cluster on tlie steepest part of the
Rocks ; officialdom first, and later the mer-
chants of old Sydney, built on the heights
of Upper Fort-street or backing tlie water-
front of Miller’s Point. The old mer-
chant Campbell had a big garden on the
western side of Sydney Cove, and that
habit was repeated in the solid stone
houses on the western side of Fort Dawes.
You may see the last survivor of the old
gardens of the ’forties in some rusty-leaved
camellia tree, choked by dust and smoke,
in a little wilderness of thicket half hidden
by a rubbled wall built in the time of
Grandfather, and now falling stone by
stone.
The earth-hunger of these early people
with all Australia waiting for them was
enormous; or it may have been that fear
of the aborigines, whom the newcomers of
the time quaintly spoke of as “Indians,”
or of the thieves they had brought with
them to the new land, caused them to
huddle together as if they were living on
a crag in the sea and not on a continent.
This earth hunger is responsible for the
fact that, excepting the old Dawes Fort
grounds, a few square yards of tigtree-
grown reserve at the Main Terminus, the
Observatory grounds, and the triangle of
open space in old Charlotte-place and the
oblong of Wynyard Square, the northern
end of West Sydney has no playing spaces.
Darlington, Chippendale and Pyrmont are
even worse, and between Glebe and Pyr-
mont there is a Wentworth Park which
would not be there only that it was a
swamp and not worth the grabbing. The
effects of this land-hunger and land-mean-
ness are most apparent in Pyrmont:
hideous houses in Harris-street that would
make even St. Francis of Assisi snake-
headed and quarrelsome; houses huddled
together on breakneck rocks, and children
with only the streets for playground and
babies using tramcars as toys. There are
Mechanics’ Institutes and Technical Schools
and Geological Museums and other excellent
public institutions punctuating my un-
selectorate, but rarely a tree or a grass plot
to give children the close 'friendship with
the growing earth that every child longs for
and every child owns by nature; rarely any-
thing unknown to the builder to soften and
humanise that wilderness of bricks.
There was the best of Torres pilots who
was my friend, and his simile for good for-
tune was “as lucky as a Pyrmont billy
goat,” said simile being explainable by
these, among other, facts——that at Pyrmont
there are bill-hoardings and bill-stickers’
paste, and many high rocks , to play King of
the Castle on. But there is little luck in
being a Pyrmont child as compared with
the other children of Australia. It is the
sordid terrace repeated to infinity; houses
with the street-door opening into the rooms;
hideous cottages lime-washed in places until
the walls seem to have a new sort of eczema ;
architectural horrors excluding light and
air; half a street designed by a blind man
who should wear crape round his head in
memory of dead brains.
And the people of to-day are no better
than the dullards who permitted the earlier
horrors. In point of fact they are worse,
because the earlier people had no time for
sweetness and light, and were building only
for the moment. The Rocks Resumption
Board had a great chance and lost it. Its
new tenements in the Rocks area are all on
the one dull and thickheaded plan; all per-
petuating the disgraceful fear and idiotic
old land-hunger that huddled the early in-
habitants together to the exclusion of light
and air. Space could easily have been
arranged for flower plots and trees before
these new tenements that are the lineal heirs
of all the worst attributes of the old, but in
every case the new tenements are prisons
bringing their red brick up to the line of
the asphalt. There is a Building Act in
existence and presumably no administration.
Presumably also these new publicly-owned
tenements comply with the building regula-
tions to the letter. If they do it is thereby
proved that the building regulations want
alteration or development.
It is the falsest of economy this building
dwellings for people as if they had no more
aesthetic sense than dogs or horses. In the
best of the citizens affected it means that
the best is not encouraged in them : in the
inferior citizen affected it means that the
worst is encouraged in him. There can be
no argument against this statement: that
children whose playground is the dirty,


squalid street have not anything like the
same chance as children Who walk on grass
and play among flowers and under the shade
~f trees. There is the real Australian —the
Australian to be—starting off with a handi-
cap; beginning with the wrong foot first,
and therefore with a bigger chance of break-
ing Step all his life than he would it his
earliest and most impressionable years were
in a better environment.
These children playing in the streets were
the first impression I had of my un-selecto-
rate and the last impression too. One of
my regrets for losing West Sydney is that I
might have been able to speak for those
small Australians with a more certain hope
of holding attention long enough to ensure
reform.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Rod and the Serpent.
There is one honest man among the I’hew-
sionists anyway, and he is the one whose in-
stincts warned him against the unholy pact
that disgraced the national life of this
Commonwealth by making chicanery and
falsehood appear a virtue and lowering the
moral standard of Australian citizenship.
This is William Irvine, and The Bulle-
tin salutes him, though it dislikes his poli-
tics and mistrusts his vision. He stands out
to-day with the truth that is in him on his
lips, holding fast to what he believes to be
a big principle and challenging judgment
upon that and that alone. This is a rare
thing to see these times. Let Liberalism
compare this man with Hughes, who with
slanderous tongue goes shrieking up and
down the land, bartering this and that for
votes. Let Labor, too, compare the stand
he makes for his principles with the stand
some Labor men make for theirs, and then
say if the Democracy would suffer were
Labor men who seek the people’s votes as
honest to themselves and the country as
Irvine is. A man like Frank Anstey,
who knows his own mind and is not afraid
to follow what he believes to be the truth,
can have nothing but contempt for a wrig-
gler like Hughes. He may profoundly dislike
Irvine’s political doctrines; but lie can have
nothing but respect for the man, for
between them there is a strong bond. And
so it is among the people—they understand
Anstey, they understand Irvine, because
it is each man’s dearest wish that they
should. How many citizens can understand
the Win the War policy of Hughes and
Cook, twisting and turning this way to-day
and the other w r ay to-morrow, dropping dust
in the public eye and converting the patri-
otic impulse of the people into the sport of
party-mongers? Irvine leaves no doubt
about what his policy is and what the policy
of Phewsion ought to be if it would escape
the ridicule of having none except the one
it has declared to be the property of traitors.
Listen :—-
Having pledged my word to the people that
conscription was necessary for Australia then, and
circumstances having made it more necessary now, I
say to you to-night that, for me, conscription is the
issue at this election. I would sooner not get into
Parliament at all; I would sooner relinquish public
life —it does not possess such charms to me that I
would abandon any principle to remain in it —I
would sooner not go into Parliament at all than
have the vote of a single anti-conscriptionist given
in my favor. Let us remember that if we do not
now rise to the occasion which for the first time
presents itself to us as a community, we for ever
sink into a lower plane. Nothing can afterwards
save us. That fatal verdict on October 28 was a
declaration by this partner in the Empire—this
partner which has all its lifetime been protected
and nursed by the British navy—that it is a partner
with a limited liability. I say if that verdict is
left uncancelled we can never get away from it.
Not all the blood shed by those who have gone, not
all the tears and anguish of those left behind, can
save Australia’s good name unless we are prepared to
do our utmost.
Whatever criticism this may be open to,
Irvine cannot be charged with dishonesty.
He is entitled to the admiration of every
decent Australian who believes the people
have a right to claim a fair deal. Most of
what Irvine says this paper believes to be
true. That the refusal of Australia to make
military service compulsory has been a
shocking mistake is the unalterable opinion
of The Bulletin, held since the first Bill-
jim regiment was enlisted. But that
plebiscite of October 28 created a position
which it is mere futility to disregard, and,
no matter who was really responsible for
the result, Australians will have to stand
the reproach. The Bulletin is sorry that
Irvine misses the significance of the plebis-
cite. But it is glad to see him or any other
man standing upright to follow the light
instead of pretending to see it and crawling
through the gutter.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
The Final Hours of Boom and Bloat.
As other parts of the world can find more
important use for money than handing it
over to Australian Governments for the pur-
pose of providing Royal Commissions with
horrible revelations later on, many public
works in N. S. Wales are being closed down.
Large numbers of men are thus being thrown
out of employment, the expenditure of about
£140,000,000 not having sufficiently deve-
loped the great natural resources of the
State to permit a handful of people to make
sure of a job unless Cgiien takes a p.n.
Following on this there is much wailing that
the men out of work are in a bad way and that
labor is threatened with oppression. That the
stoppage of work must cause hardship to
many poor people is certain ; and this ought
to provide evidence for labor of how rotten a
foundation the public policy of the State
has been resting on. Borrow and bloat
are nothing but the outward and visible sign
of an organised shirk, by which Capital and
Labor conspire to dodge the responsibilities
of to-day by pawning the week after next,
and having a picnic with the proceeds. At
this outing nearly all the solid nourishment
is appropriated by the speculator and the
parasite. Labor gets little more than the
bones. The tragedy for the Labor party has
been that it refused to see this, and as a
borrower in N. S. Wales it went full speed
ahead. Now, when the inevitable occurs,
Labor howls dismally that the way to pre-
vent it happening is to borrow some more
and keep the jag moving. Well, the plain
fact about the borrowing dodge is that
it is nearly played out, for Australia has
just about taken enough borrowings on board
to submerge the Plimsoll mark. The labor
of the crowds of men who have hitherto
been toiling to help Parliaments build up
debt is wanted now to assist the country in
grappling with the cost of debt, and unless
it is diverted to this rational purpose Aus-
tralia’s job of holding her end up is not
going to be completed. Of course it is. no
use eternally moaning about the criminal
recklessness of the past. But there is an
urgent necessity for recognising that the
work Australia has to perform for national
salvation will not even be started until the
last vestige of the old policy has been flung
off the premises. For Australia to go on
borrowing, wasting and importing—each
folly being inseparable from the other —
would mean, even if such lunacy could be
indulged in. the certain destruction of nearly
every political principle the people have come
to regard as permanent in national policy.
This paper has suspicions that already some
of these are half-way to the dustbin. No
country in the world ever pawned its way
to greatness, nor did any people ever shirk
their way anywhere but to a place that was
mighty uncomfortable.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George Street, Sydney.]
Playing with Matches in a Powder
Magazine.
The British Empire consists of, in round
figures, 60 million white citizens and 370
million colored subjects. The very existence
of the Empire in this world-crisis depends
on preserving the solidarity of the white
citizens. The National party is pledged by
its leader, Mr. Hughes, to “a policy for the
whole British Empire covering every phase
of our national, social and economic life.”
This policy must, of course, include citizens
and subjects alike in its domination. That
policy already dominates the 370 million
colored subjects. The National party fol-
lowing Mr. Hughes seeks to extend that
centralised Imperial sway to the 60 million
white citizens. Can South Africa, Canada
or Australia accept that proposition?
South Africa is engaged at the present time
with us in fighting against German Imperial-
ism. But would South Africa, after her
bitter experience of British Imperialism,
consent to allow a Parliament sitting in
London to control her “national, social and
economic life”? No one but a madman could
believe that she would do so. Canada, like
Australia, has her own settled policy of in-
dustrial and economic progress, social stan-
dards and race purity. Would Canada
tamely revert to the position which America
occupied before the War of Independence?
We know she would not. Would we, the
free citizens of the Australian Common-
wealth, consent to put our high ideals
of “social and economic life” and our
white Australian policy- —our religion of race
purity—to the hazard in an Imperial
gamble where we know that the dice are
already loaded against us, and where the
stakes are the bodies and souls of our chil-
dren’s children? Never! The mental status
of a politician who in this supreme hour,
when salvation lies in unity, seeks to let
loose these terrific forces of disruption, can
only be compared to that of an idiot child
playing with matches in a powder-magazine.
The only way for citizens alike of Australia
and the British Empire to stop such a mad
Mullah in his mission of destruction and
disruption is to vote down his followers by
whatever name they choose to call them-
selves.
[Frank Cotton, Hornsby, N.S.W.]
The Merchant Shipping Act badly wants re-
casting and the Immigration Act is a poor
thing if what happened recently in a Vic-
torian Court is allowed to "go.” A big cargo
steamer took in its usual crowd of mixed-
bred all-nation firemen and sundries at Barry,
Wales. One of the crowd, a sort of Greek,
raised Cain all through the voyage, winding
up with a hint of knife-work on the chief
engineer between Calcutta and Java. At
Java an attempt was made to unload the
undesirable, but Java wasn’t having any. It
recommended Australia, no doubt adding
something about a birth-stain. Arrived at
Melbourne the ship’s officers lost no time in
running the cross-bred nuisance up to the
nearest suburban court on an assault charge.
The case was easy. The prosecuting lawyer
mentioned that the maximum penalty was 12
weeks and asked for it, or (as he put it in
his naive innocence) as much of it as would
exceed 10 days, by which time the boat
would have cleared for another port. The
honorary Bench obliged with a month —not
without, it must be said to its credit, a pro-
test about the dumping of such human trash
upon Australia. And thus we gain another
citizen, God help us! But what sort of a
law is it that allows a shipping company to
unload its labor-mistakes, gathered up in the
slums of Goo-knows-where, upon Australia?
♦ —
“D.A.S.II.”: Another little way the Federal
Commissioner of Taxation has of obtaining
money which I do not believe Parliament
ever intended him to get is to make assess-
ments on the income earned by soldiers prior
to enlistment. The Income Tax Assessment
Act 1915 states (Section 13) :—
This Act shall not apply to any person who is on
active service during the present war with the
military or naval forces of the Commonwealth....
so far as regards income from personal exertion and
earned prior to the commencement of this Act or
during the present state of war.
This surely releases Bilgjim from Federal
tax on what he earned by the sweat of his
brow; but the Commissioner takes the point
that this section applies only from the date
of Bill’s enlistment, and that Bill is liable
for tax on his earnings before that date.
Therefore if Bill enlists in July and sails,
say, in December, the probability is that the
following March Mrs. Billjim is called on
by the Commonwealth to pay up whatever
amount the Commissioner has taxed Bill.
Practically, Mrs. Bill has no redress. She
has to pay. She cannot fight in the courts,
because she mostly cannot afford it, and, any-
way, if she could she isn’t sure enough of the
facts. All she knows, as a rule, is that Bill
didn’t leave the money to pay the tax, not
expecting that he would be taxed ; and if she
pays she has to do it out of the “allot-
ment.” Thus the bigger the monetary sacri-
fice Bill made the harder it is for Bill’s
missus, because the bigger the tax she has to
produce from somewhere. Nine times out
of 10, it isn't a tax on Bill; it is a tax on
Bill’s missus while Bill himself is away
fighting.
An interesting sidelight on the “solution of
the metal problem” that Hughes talks so
much about is contained in a report just
made to the shareholders of Iodide (Mineral
Hill), Ltd., Sydney:—
The directors' efforts have been hampered (a) by
the abnormal times we are passing through due to
the war, (b) the reluctance of shareholders to pay
calls, and (c) the unprofitable results from concen-
tration of the milling ore and the heavily increased
charges made by the Smelting Company since the
War Regulations shut other outlets for disposal, a
position that has been brought under the notice of
the Federal Authorities, but so far without relief.
In this connection a favorable offer was received to
purchase the Company’s output of leady concen-
trates for the Japanese market, subject to the
approval of the Fedora 1 Authorities; but upon
application being made for permission to enter into
negotiations the same was peremptorily refused.
There being no prospect of relief from the local
Smelters, whose charges have been again increased,
the directors had to abandon concentration, and
could only recommend shareholders to wind up the
Company, but at the same time would impress upon
them that the possibilities of the property, of which
all the general evidences were distinctly favorable,
could not be determined until greater depth was
attained.
So a Win the War Government refused to
allow Australian lead concentrates to go
even to an Ally, but insisted upon the stuff
going to what a Victorian Supreme Court
Judge the other day declared was a mon-
opoly ; and as this monopoly has made cumu-
lative increases in the smelting charges
another mining co. has had to throw up the
sponge. And this is at a time when it is
urgently necessary that every possible source
of employment in Australia should be kept
open and every possible pound of lead pro-
vided for the needs of the Empire and its
friends.
Resolution passed by the recent Melbourne
conference of interstate farmers’ organisa-
tions :—
That in the interests of Australia and the Empire,
and with the object of encouraging primary produc-
tion throughout the Commonwealth, the Government
should recognise the absolute necessity of amending
the tariff to enable farmers to import their tools of
trade and bags free of duties.
A better thing would be to amend the intelli-
gence of some farmers. Can’t Cocky see
that every other producer logically has as
much right to claim free importation of
“tools of trade” as he has? And if such a
claim were admitted all round—seeing that
the tools of one producer are the finished
product of another—iow would the farmer
stand? To whom would he sell his finished
product if no other producer could afford to
buy it because every other producer was
importing the article which he should be
producing? The farmer would have a
mighty poor local market, anyhow —and the
war has shown wba(; is liable to happen to
the foreign markets. For mere sordid bust*
ness reasons the farmer ought to be barrack-
ing mightily for High Protection on every-
thing Australia can produce. High Protec-
tion means a busy population, and that
means a handy market for the farmer s
goods.
[P. T. Freeman, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
“J.”: The man who is there already and
scratching hard, grins, when he hears how
poor old Billjim, back from the wars, is
to be dumped on the land and turned into a
prosperous farmer overnight. Let me speak
of what I do know. Recently the Koppio
(S.A.) branch of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association presented the member for the
district with a list of 49 farms, comprising
over 100,900 acres, under the jurisdiction
of two S. Australian district councils,
Tumby and Lincoln. Said farms are abso-
lutely deserted, the holders having walked
off, and nobody can be got to take them on.
There are dozens of other farmers who
would throw up the sponge if they knew of
a decent job. These men have lived on rab-
bit and hope for the last 10 years, and now
jump at an offer of 10s. a day and eight
hours. Yet it is proposed to reward
Billjim by putting him where these hard-
ened specialists could not exist! It looks
now as if the cocky's harvester, which a few
years ago cost £6O, is to soar from the
present £llO to anything the makers like.
If his “super” and everything else is to get
dearer and dearer, more land of the poorer
class will be deserted presently. You can’t
keep the man on the land and bleed him to
support great cities mostly occupied by
parasites that make in a mouth far more
than the farmer can net in a year.
“Verdad” : I detect German intrigue in the
cable that Chile is sounding Peru about the
advisability of jointly making war on Bolivia
in order to take the latter country’s province
of Tarija. The reason given for making
this move now is that Argentine, if she
joins the Allies, will be too busy to be able
to protect Bolivia. I think German agents
have started the rumor to keep Argentine
from joining in against Germany. Argen-
tine and Chile are fairly friendly—as
friendly, that is, as any two neighboring-
nations are ever likely to be —but there is a
natural jealousy between them. Chile-fought
and conquered Peru and Bolivia combined,
and still retains portion of their territories.
Chile and Peru hate each other cordially.
Bolivia and Peru are not at all friendly—
they sort of blame each other for their
defeat. Chile and Bolivia are neither very
friendly nor yet very antagonistic. It is
most unlikely (I would have said quite im-
possible, but in these days prophecies are apt
to go wrong) that Peru and Chile would
fight on the same side. Peru is rather pro-
German. But no matter how improbable
the tale is, many votes in Argentine would
certainly be influenced by the fear of letting
Chile get one ahead.
♦
About one Australian in 500, perhaps, has
taken serious note of the fact that British
forces in Mesopotamia last week got hold
of a section of the Bagdad railway—the
first big blow to German prestige that the
Kaiser and his Deutscher Bank have suffered
in that region. Australian indifference to
war details would seem almost splendid if
it were not wholly due to ignorance—the
ignorance that Cook and Hughes are ex-
ploiting when they howl for support of their
undiscover able Win-the-War policy, and
swear that under no circumstances will they
hurt the feelings of anti-conscriptionists.
Still, the sin of Australian indifference to
the relative importance of things is charge-
able more against the censorship than
against the people. In the early days of
the war ignorance was willing, if not eager,
to be educated ; but as a result of its per-
sistent befoolment it ceased to try to under-
stand the Allies’ scheme of extricating them-
selves from the mess and decided to wait
for something too definite to be misunder-
stood.
+
Another tale of muddle:—
If the recommendations of the conference upon
the rabbit industry are not greatly modified, there is
going to be trouble in various parts—especially of
N, S. Wales—where poisoning rabbits for their skins
is fairly remunerative at present prices. There are
multitudinous places where factories are too far
distant for trapping-for-the-market to be profitable,
but where bunny exists in millions. When Federal
interference with the industry was proposed it was
stated that, in consequence of the value of the rabbit
as a food to Britain, the Commonwealth Government
was going, in conjunction with the British Govern-
ment, to assume control of the whole of the indus-
try—slaughtering for skins included. Many carcase
trappers, considering that the prices they were paid
by the factories were not commensurate with the
prices obtained for the factory products in Britain,
hoped that there would be an adjustment, while skin-
trappers, who work tremendously long hours under
the roughest <sf conditions, hoped that any change
would lie in the direction of eliminating the middle-
man. Last year, when skins were cheaper in the open
market than they are now, the Federal Government
commandeered what it required for military pur-
poses at Is. Bd. per lb. for best, a price then con-
siderably lower than that obtainable by auction, but
removed the embargo when its own demand was
satisfied. Any return to this arrangement was not
expected, the anticipation being that Government
control would simply ensure fair treatment to both
producer and consumer. What has been decided is
that the Government shall commandeer, not only
skins required for its own requirements, but the whole
of the output, at the old price of 20d. per lb. for
best, and this at a time when skins of that quality
are at 30d. in open market. Local manufacturers
are to be supplied at prices to be determined, after
which the Government is to re-sell the balance in
any way it likes. Skin-trappers and poisoners—all
small men with no pull —can hardly be blamed if
they look upon the scheme as a plan for robbing
them. But other consequences are likely to follow
the action, and many people not directly interested
Civilisation.
From The Bulletin’s old contributor
“McNorth” :—
Sixteen years ago I gave civilisation the go-by
and sailed away north to the sunlit lands that lie
around the Equator. Ten years were spent in Papua
and adjacent isles trading with brown-skinned natives
for copra and rubber; sailing strange-odored lug-
gers to little-known villages in search of plantation
labor: fossicking amongst the coral reefs for the
slothful beche-de-mer in a tiny, heaving cutter that
at times was almost a submarine; making long
canoe journeys up mighty, nipa-fringed rivers
prospecting for sandalwood and cedar; marching at
the head of long strings of carriers into mountain-
ous inland country in pursuit of the golden penny-
weight—-and rarely finding it. The last six years I
spent at Cape York —Australia’s uttermost north —•
struggling with the jungle and the solitudes in the
endeavor to make cocoanuts grow where only
Binghis grew before. But all the time 1 lived close
to nature, breathing Gon’s pure air beneath sunny
skies ; and not once in all the years did I visit the
civilisation of the South till a week or two ago,
when I boarded a China steamer at Thursday Island
and came steaming down the wonderful Inner Route
of the Great Barrier and so on to Sydney.
And now that I am here I don’t like it. After
those years of quiet the Ways of the city and the
everlasting noise of alleged civilisation jar horribly.
People sit hunched up in noisy trams and trains in
rows one behind the other like so many puppets
instead of human beings possessing individuality.
Of all sizes, shapes and ages, and of every manner of
dress, they pour out of dingy doors in tall buildings
at “knock-off,” and make the traversing of the
narrow streets a feat of navigation. I eat a city
lunch in a crowded, voice-laden atmosphere and
strain my ears —so long used to silence—to catch
the conversation of my companion. All the time
people are chattering, and the hoof-beats on the
pavements add to the general din. Harshness is
the dominating note. Trams tear along with an
uproar like the Day of Judgment on the spree, and
motors, making unsavory noises that sound like
seasickness, honk incessantly. Even in the compara-
tive quiet of Suburbia butchers, bakers, ice-men and
the like call several times daily and attract the
attention of the householders with grating noises like
“Ye-rrp!” The nerve-shattering results of the
continual row and the necessity of being always on
the alert are reflected in the strained faces of the
people.
Artificiality is everywhere. There are women with
young skirts and old faces, and, at the surfing
resorts, females who paint their faces after donning
their bathing costume—shams that are foolish and
futile inasmuch as they deceive nobody. Even the
air is make-believe stuff containing petrol-fumes,
smoke, road-dust and sundries—especially sundries.
And the purposeless haste! On hot days even,
men dressed in three-garment suits and stiff collars
rush along as though the fate of the Empire
depended on their haste. Why should a man twirl
round a corner on one leg merely in order to
purchase a packet of cigarettes? They strain their
hearts chasing trams, although the lumbersome
things follow one another at intervals of a few
seconds. Life should not be the strenuous thing
city people make it.
Then there are the dreadfully high venereal statis-
tics, the slums, tales of families in distress and
other horrors.
It reads like an account of some over-populated
Chinese Province. Yet all this noise and crowding
and hustle and general chaos is in our own country
—a country that has millions of unpeopled, fertile
acres lying beneath sunny skies in a climate beyond
compare.
I am getting back to my North. Nature is better
than this horror that man has made.


[For any unsigned Plain English and other para-
graphs which require a signature under the Electoral
Act, S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street,, Sydney, accept the responsibility.]
PREPARING FOR THE NEW HARVEST.
The serious work of putting in the new crops has begun, and the farmer is busy making his arrangements for the coming season.
Here are two matters which should engage his urgent attention: —
INSURANCE OF PROPERTY AND CROPS.
the farmer's^ap^tal^hi^'propwty 8 ri *" ° f ** “» far to " «"* to —* to luck.” A single spark-and al.
INSURANCE OF LABOR.
On and after July 1 this year, under the Workmen’s Compensation Act. the N. S. Wales farmer is liable to provide compensation to any employee i,mired in Ids
service. Insuring with a reputable company is the only protection. 1 10 anj empiojee injured in his
The Best Company for the Farmer is Undoubtedly His Own Company.
S Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A"*! fa| i a
A co. owned by farmers and controlled
solely in their interests.
BECOME A SHAREHOLDER.
Write to the Manager for full details.
A co-operative co. which aims at
providing insurance at cost price.
Branches in Vitoria, Queensland and
on‘h Australia.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
in the industry will be affected. At the present
moment, in many remote districts of N. S. Wales,
the destruction of the rabbits is of such value to the
landholders that, despite the price of skins, they hold
out many inducements to men to come and destroy
the pest on their land. Poison and horses are supplied
free, and, in places, quarters and cheap meat, with a
penny per scalp thrown in. Go where you will in the
rabbit country, the cry is for more trappers near
the factories, and for more men to poison for the
skins further back. The howl of the rabbit-slayer
when he finds that one-third of his income is practi-
cally confiscated by the Federal Government, appar-
ently for the purpose of increasing the undisclosed
profits of the chilling works, is therefore likely to be
vociferously encored by the squatter and the cocky.
The Great Struggle for Victory—and a
Crust.
The submarine represents the crux of the
Allies’ problem, and after everything has
been said about it this remains—that mastery
of the sea during the last few weeks has
been passing out of the hands of the British.
Yowling at the German for being a bar-
barian does not alter the facts which have
to be grappled with. It is possible that the
blockade may be beaten by sinking the enemy
craft. It is conceivable that the rate of
constructing new vessels may be so speeded
up as to make good the losses, though this
obviously involves a loss of freight horrible
to think about. There is, further, a proba-
bility that by concentrating on production of
foodstuffs on the premises and the regula-
tion of the national appetite, the necessity
for imports may be vastly reduced. But
these considerations merely emphasise the
critical situation created by the torpedo.
The elements of the case as they stand to-
day boil down to this: Can the army win
before the submarine isolates Britain, or
can Britain, on whom the weight of respon-
sibility falls, overcome the peril at her door
so that the army may take its time? The
details in relation to the German armies,
Russia, the campaign in Northern France,
and the blockade are so obscure as to permit
of little more than guesswork, but it is clear
from the tone of Lloyd George’s latest
speech,-the studied ambiguity of the figures
referring to ships, and the comments of the
London newspapers that the powers in this
scrap are fighting with their backs to the
wall, and the side that makes the best use
of its resources will win. Meanwhile the
battle east of Arras goes furiously on, the
German hitting back heavily and the British
troops making progress which may mean
much or little. The only certain thing is
that Von llindenb tt rg is being severely
mauled, and that the yarns about “the shat-
tered morale of the enemy” are the same old
rubbish —told to appease cold-footers and
cowards mostly. For Australia there ' has
lately been the abrupt revelation that
a man who writes copious notes in
order to avoid war may still set about
making war in a much more rational and
business-like way than an individual who
spouts a torrential deluge of fierce words.
Uncle Sam has made service compulsory
from the start, acting upon the only sane
conception of civic duty in an hour of the
most dire menace to every democracy in the
world. It is good to see the Yankee in this
fight and it will do the citizens of Australia
no harm to remember that Jonathan, is
helping to save this Commonwealth, that the
end of the war is not yet in sight, and that
mouths which are full of bombast are full of
danger. If the Allies win through to where
they want to get —and where every patriotic
Australian should pray for the future safety
of his country they will get—the inhabitants
of this Commonwealth will owe more to
the people of other countries than any
nation, perhaps, that ever breathed the air
of freedom.
—— -♦ -
The solemn announcement that the London
Conference has decided to adopt the princi-
ple of preference as a post-war policy means
little more than nothing. Its decision in
this respect, if there has been one, has rather
less force than a decision to adopt a policy
of twins. The members of the Conference
are without even the shadow of authority to
bind Governments, and certainly have no
power to bind peoples. It has always been
within the competence of what are some-
times called “Colonial Governments” to make
preference part of their fiscal policy. They
have done so. British Governments have, on
the other hand, hitherto rejected preference.
This Conference cannot change that. The
question is one of domestic politics: and
while it may happen that the war will lead
to a sharp change in Britain’s fiscal system,
this will certainly not be as the result of
anything decided at a meeting of a few indi-
viduals without authority to decide anything.
If it is the intention of Lloyd George to be
an apostle of reformation in England, that is
the joint business of himself and the people
thereabouts. If any politician or political
parties elsewhere chose to bind themselves in
advance to co-operate with him, that in turn
is the business of other people. Everything
will hinge upon the details. There is no
magic in a mere word whether it be “prefer-
ence” or anything else. For the present
it looks to The Bulletin that something
like the first steps are being taken to give
this meeting in London a status entirely
new ; and it is ominous that a start should
be made at the very point where, so far as
Australia at any rate is concerned, the issue
raised impinges directly upon the powers of
the Commonwealth Parliament. This Con-
ference has been shrouded ip a great mystery
all along. It requires careful watching.
A quaint feature of the election cam-
paign is the discovery of the transcendent
virtues and unique talents which the Labor
party possessed until a few months back. In
an attempt to show that the party has
“blown out its brains,” the. Argus furnishes
a list including such intellectual giants as
Pearce, Laird Smith and Jawbone Webster,
and credits them with the mental qualities
of an Asquith or a Rosebery. The papers
dilate upon the “splendid, virile programme”
of Labor when Hughes and Archibald were
in its ranks, aaid compare it unfavorably
with the present menu. Meanwhile readers
are probably wondering why the same papers
always tried to defeat a party with such
an admirable programme and sought to ex-
clude the brilliant intellects from Parlia-
ment.
IB. J. Harrison Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road,
Elwood, Vie.]
Thus the desperate Phews as he swings
on the farmer’s log : —
I appeal to you, the primary producers, therefore
to stand behind your fellows in Europe and leave no
stone unturned to see that their pressing food rer
quirements are forthcoming. Upon your answer hangs
our destiny and that of the civilised world.
And if that heart-sob doesn’t move you, con-
sider the sorrows of a poor Socialist-Labor-
ite-Freetrader-Friend of the People-Mono-
poly Destroyer-Monopoly Builder-Pet o’
Duchesses-Secretary of Wharflaborers-Lib-
eral-Tory out of work and down at heel!
At last a Phewsion candidate has been
pinned down to a definite answer to the
question: “How does your party intend to
carry out its promise to win the war?” At
a meeting at Maribyrnong, Jowett, the shep-
herd king who is opposing J. E. Fenton, was
asked: —■
As you state conscription is not an issue, how do
you propose to get men, failing voluntary enlistment ?
And here is Jowett’s illuminating reply:—
I believe with the driving out of public of the men
who are carrying on the campaign of hatred against
the Prime Minister, that recruiting will be stimu-
lated sufficiently for the needs of the army.
Doubtless if Jowett happens to beat Fenton
in Maribyrnong hordes in Brisbane will
rush to join the colors, and if Hughes can
only defeat Hainpson there is even a possi-
bility that Willie Watt and Willie Kelly
will enlist.
[B. J. H. Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road, Elwood, Vic.]
While Hughes is shrieking for Australia
to “put on the toga of nationhood,” it is
worth remembering that he was one of the
bitterest opponents Federation ever had. The
anti-nationalist has now become leader of
an alleged “Nationalist” party and a spouter
in favor of “Imperial Federation,” just as
the former Laborite has become the pet of
Fat and the political bedftdlow of Irvine and
Bruce Smith.
[B. J. H. Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road, Elwood, Vic.]
It is costing N. S. Wales £360,000 to buy
itself out of the Norton Griffiths contract.
Now. is this Government going to appoint
a commission to ascertain how such a con-
tract came to be made, or is it going to lie
under the suspicion that it dare not take the
lid off?
Among all these stories about mice chew-
ing five-pound notes and women’s hair, not a
word has been published about the calami-
tous interference of the rodents with the
Phewsion’s Win the War policy. Probably
the Censor is bravely withholding details in
order that the enemy may not get the hang
of the situation. Well, this paper defies the
Censor and insists on publishing the facts.
The policy was left by Hughes with the
Liberal junta in Sydney to be approved and
then transmitted through the post to him in
Victoria. It was despatched by registered
letter, but Hughes happened to be careering
round the landscape pulling up upas trees, so
the Post Office locked the document up
while it went to have an hour’s rest. During
that fatal pause the policy was attacked by
mice, which nibbled all the corners off and
ate a hole in the middle. Subsequent efforts
by the Phewsion to remember what the
hiatus contained, and its most strenuous
attempts to capture the mice with a view to
recovering the plans and specifications, re-
sulted in failure. Australia is thus now re-
duced to the ignominious position of having
the national policy concealed in the innards
of what a cat pursues for breakfast.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The House that Jack Built’
Palace “Turn to the Right”
Royal “Jiuker”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Cos.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Canary Cottage”
Royal “Penelope”
Princess’s “The Bunyip”
King’s “Very Good Eddie”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Cos.
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia ........ Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
At Sydney Grand Opera House Father
Theodore Greenaway is still trying to beat
his record in marrying Fredetc. Hunter-
Watts to Allan Wilkie in 27sec.; at the
Palace the three Get-Respectable-Quick
Wallingfords are still winning fortunes out
of peaches and winning peaches for wives ;
at the Royal, for two more nights, Andy
Kerr, as himself, is starring in “Jinker,”
supported by Fred Macdonald, Harry
McDonna and a more or less new assort-
ment of girls; at the Criterion that delight-
ful actress, Kathlene MacDonell, will appear
for only two more nights in "Daddy
Long Legs,” and on Saturday will bo given
greater scope for her emotional powers 'in
H. H. Davies’s “Outcast.” On the same
evening either William Morris Hughes or
Frank Gwynne Tudor will also perform.
Or perhaps they will both perform—Frank
Gwynne when he hears the result of the
Reps, election; William Morris when those
of the Senate come in.
“The House that Jack Built” is resisting
the rain splendidly at Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney ), and the roar of counted coin in the
treasury drowns the drumming of torrents on
the theatre roof.
* * * *
Bruises are part of the acrobatic com-
edian’s make-up, but broken bones stop the
performance. Last Saturday while Barry
Lupino was trying to crack his neck in
Melbourne, Billy Rego of the Follies dumped
a piano on his toes at Sydney Tivoli and
smashed a bone or two. While he is off
Chris Wren will amble in his place. And
Wren himself has only just resumed grease-
paint after an accident of the same sort.
The other Follies remain unlamed by either
criticism or pianos, _ and basso Malcolm
McEachern is thundering in support.
Now that Winter is at hand, Wirths’
audiences at the New Hippodrome, Sydney,
have ceased to envy the performers who
have to dive into the sinking ring in pursuit
of their salaries. These chilly evenings even
the timid would rather take off their boots
and warm their stockinged feet on a flushed
lion. (P.S. —Flushed lion can be procured
this week at the Sydney Zoo. His missus
has just been guilty of triplets.)
“THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT."
AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Sammy (Harry Roxbury) and his panto,
cow defy the police.
Scenes from the islands of beauty and
legend are being filmed at Waddington’s
Grand (Sydney). Maoriland in all its
wonder and weirdness smiles at you in the
magic of . its greens and blues. The pro-
gramme is varied by scenes from other
lands; and the beautiful flower studies with
which the evening’s entertainment starts
were greeted with enthusiastic applause by
the first-night audience, most of it there as
the guest of the Maoriland Government.
Shadow drama in Sydney this week
Lyceum ; Charlie Chaplin in his latest eccentricities
as “The Vagabond” ; and “Aladdin from Broadway,”
a startling series of adventures that befall a ’Murkan
investigator into the mysteries of the Holy Land.
Hoyt’s: “The White Raven,” in which Ethel
Barrymore as a Wild West lady with an operatic
voice donates herself as a gambling stake so that
she may get to the glamor of New York and become
a prima-donna.
Crystal Palace : “The Dancer’s Peril,” a pleasing
Russian drama featuring Alexis Kosloff and Alice
Brady in an Imperial Russian ballet; Chaplin as
“The Vagabond.”
“VERY GOOD EDDIE” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
George Whitehead as
Percy Darling, suffer-
ing from a song.
Barry Lupino as
Eddie Kettle
slightly upset.
“Very Good Eddie,” having been speeded-
up since the lirst night at Melbourne King’s,
now sends the audience unreluctantly off the
premises on the right side of 11 p.m. The
show would bear even a little more haste,
especially when Eddie and the other fellow’s
bride are singing their Babes in the Wood
duet. The vocalism and pained demeanor of
Barry Lupino in those mushy moments sug-
gest that any other boyish-looking comedian
might do the same thing much better. On
the other hand, it is evident that Lilian
Tucker and Higginson could do with a few
better opportunities than they get, for the
lady has a winsome style, and Andrew H.,
whose front name is strangely out of place,
retains all his old capacity for playing the
giddy goat in a gay and detached spirit, and
his singing has improved somewhat since the
time when he frisked around the Merry
Widow. Also the nippy little chorus might
be made more of, perhaps. True, there is
no logical excuse for the chorus having fol-
lowed Eddie off the boat, but where a bunch
of nice girls are concerned no excuse is
necessary. They are always welcome. The
only thing to be said against the irrelevant
girls is that they are usually attended by
able-bodied young men who ought to be
engaged in war work.
Barry Lupino fell out of “Very Good
Eddie” into a nice warm bed on Saturday
night. He was making his protracted step
downstairs during the acrobatic dance in the
second act, when he somehow missed his
footing, and, hitting the stage on an unsuit-
able portion of his anatomy, strained his
shoulder. The nimble comedian was too sore
to appear on Monday, but it was expected
that he would be right enough on the follow-
ing day to resume his all-night Sittings with
Fayette Perry and perform the old prodigies
of foolishness in the lolly-colored pyjamas.
Another phase of Marie Tempest is due
at Melbourne Royal next Saturday.
“Penelope,” a comedy by W. S. Maugham,
is the coming bill, and the cast will include
several additions to the co. Meanwhile Kitty
is making her final elopements with her law-
ful husband.
A glamor of naughty reputation still com-
mends “Canary Cottage” to the godly and
ungodly alike at Melbourne Majesty’s, and
the sad fact that the Williamson show is
no naughtier than it ought to be is not
apparent to everybody at a first visit. Some
people go more than once to make sure they
were not shocked the time before.
. T’lie “Bunyip” panto., which disposes of
its name, part in the first act, continues to
P«t in eight performances a week at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. The Manchurians and
the Bush Eire must be largely accountable
for this, unless the long, long comic dua-
logues are the cause. For the little bit of
plot is only a pleasant suggestion of what
might have been, and the management’s con-
ception of a Bunyip is a libel on legendary
animal life. Tt looks more like a demon
Turnip than the Bunyip of our crav-fish
dreams.


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
Those Brave Recruits
must eat, and we do not want them to devolve to the
primitive, and eat from their fingers. We, therefore,
show a Spoon, Fork and Knife in one, and yet which
separate for the purposes of use. We have hitherto sold
them as fast as they arrived, but by means of cabling
and writing, we have succeeded in getting enough of
them this shipment to allow us to advertise them for the
benefit of our inland customers. For the trenches they
are undoubtedly the most convenient combination a man
can carry.
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 &25 HUNTER STREET.
Knife, Spoon and Fork, to close up as a
Penknife, 5/6 each.
A WELL-MADE RAINCOAT!
MADE OF GENUINE BRITISH GABARDINE.
A distinctive Raglan style, falling in a graceful drape from the shoulders
and giving ample freedom for easy walking. Chemically-proofed Genuine
Gabardine (now very scarce), no rubber used. A coat that protects from
rain and cold, yet is light enough to carry on the arm without discomfort.
Fawn British Gabardine 807-
Style as illustrated. AVc pay postage.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
df
gdfgdf
gfd
gd
Whilst Melbourne Tivoli is lavishly
beflagged in honor of Ada Reeve the rush to
get there is tempered by a rise in prices.
Nevertheless the present entertainment seems
worth an extra shilling, compared with some
that went before. Ada’s humorous way of
leading the chorus for the sickly sentimental
doggrel ragtime ditty known as “Tennessee”
is a study in applied art. She gives a new
interest to hackneyed songs, and hits the
boys hard with her new ones. Nikola, the
man with the wonderful hands, also Little
Lucie, the versatile dancer, count for a
good deal more than Clarence Blakiston.
whose clever but out-of-date turn is alto-
gether quite too English, you know. Two of
the actors whom this actor imitates never
came to Australia before they died, and the
survivor is as yet unknown to this beastly
country. Besides, Blakiston introduces him-
self in the tone of a superior person con-
ferring a favor on the vaudeville stage.
* *
The programmes at the Melba and Britan-
nia picture-houses, Melbourne, this week are
keeping a lot of people off the streets. At
the Melba the current draw is Virginia Pear-
son as “Daredevil Kate,” a tanglefoot mer-
chant in a rough mining camp who keeps
the excitement simmering with tongue and
gun when the liquid fire runs .low. At the
Britannia “The Microscope Mystery” and
“Somewhere in France” are chasing their
tails as “continuous” spasms, along with a
Keystone comedy, “Maggie’s First False
Step.”
“VERY GOOD
EDDIE," AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
John Beck,
the clerk.
The opulent charms of the Dago prima-
lonna, Lina Cavalieri, are being screened at
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week in a. Tiber five-
acter, “Should a Man Forgive?” In this
attraction Lina is the flaming passion of an
artist and a duke, but it requires yards of
gesticulation and a well-managed duel to
decide which of the rivals can have her for
keeps. All the ingredients of a William Le
Queux story are contained in the Metro
offering, “In the Diplomatic Service” —a
delectable hash of mystery and espionage
decorated with handsome attaches, lovely
ladies, and ambassadorial uniforms.
Adelaide theatres are taking turns at get-
ting their heads in front in the dramatic
race. The King’s is shut again, and the
Royal has heard the last tremolo of Italian
opera—a long and popular and successful
season —and gone contentedly back to pic-
tures. This leaves the Tivoli to keep drama
going with the old “Robbery Under Arms,”
which, with Cross as Starlight and
Fitzherbert as the Inspector, goes as well
as ever. Joseph Brennan is the outstanding
feature of the Dandies at the Queen's. Le
Blanc and Mack are doing well at the
Majestic; but this bill needs strengthening
up on the athletic and spectacular side.
“C.R.8.”: Frank Anstey will have to
share with John Thomson the prize for
frankness allotted to him by Harrison
Owen (B. 19/4/T7). John, who was re-
turned unopposed for Cowper (N.S.W.), is
also a politician of “no occupation.” And
he has more right to regard himself as “un-
occupied” than the energetic Anstey. Thom-
son plays at politics as he plays at Life—-like
a gentleman-amateur, never considering
either of sufficient importance to lose any
sleep over.
[C. R. Bradish, 809 Collins-street, Melbourne.]
c , r T , .. . , ~ ~, • n i
S. M. Herald thinks that Premier Hoi-
nmn is light to have his jaunt to London.
He will be able_ to see for himself exact
where N. S. Wales stands in the old land.
Certainly Holman knows just where to look
for it. He has made it a fixture on Cohens
doormat.
If the Phewsion is as “sporting” as the
Argus says it is. Laborite Hampson, whose
seat Hughes is trying to collar, ought to be
given the use of a pair of motor-cars for
travelling through the Bendigo electorate.
On being tackled at Maldon for using two
Commonwealth cars on electioneering busi-
ness, Hampson’s opponent declared that one
was an old car and “the other was for the
Prime Minister and he meant to use it.”
The use of a Government car to advance a
Party’s interests may look fair to the party
behind Hughes; but that only goes to show
what sort of party it is.
AT POVERTY POINT.
"Ancient Prompter”: The Williamson Co.
has lost another of its old managers. Harold
Ashton (born Jordan and christened Bill),
who died the other day in Melbourne at
bo, has been connected with the Firm for
over 30 years, first as secretary to J.C.W.,
then as “advance” and business manager, and
latterly as director in S. Africa. Ashton
was hard to beat as a showman, but he was
“had” once. In a M.L. town, when all the
cheap parts of the house had filled, a diffi-
dent youth came to the manager to know
what the entertainment was like before risk-
ing 3s. for a front seat. “The best piece you've
ever had here,” asseverated Ashton. “Tell
you what I’ll do. If you don’t like it when
you’ve seen it, I'll give you your money
back.” The show was over and Ashton was
busy in the office, when the patron reap-
peared. “I thought it was rotten,” he
announced, “so I’ve come for my money.”
The boss recalled his stupid promise, put a
good face on the situation, and handed up
3s. The youth turned to go, then wheeled
round with: “And what about my tram-
fare ?”
The late Harold Ashton, associate-director
in the Williamson management, was a son
of the farm. John Jordan, of Burwood, near
Melbourne, was his dad, and Harold’s front
name was Bill. The Jordan place, still
dairy-farmed by a brother of the dead
manager, is an ancient, well-known land-
mark in a district dotted With elderly re-
minders of a bygone day—a picturesque
white house in a very green home-paddock,
approached by a bushy drive across a bushy
creek. Ashton was drawing £lOOO p.a. at
the time of his death—better than most
farmers do. But there’s more sleep in the
farming business, and longer life.
"M. 8.” : The late Harold Ashton was the
kindliest man you’d find In a thousand. One
of the quiet fellows who never quarrel. Like
all such, once started lue was hard to stop.
When he was looking after the front of the
Gaiety (Sydney) for Fred Hiscocks there
was a vocalist who uaed to unload his song
and then rush round to the door to hear the
criticisms of the patrons. One night he tried
to rush into the auditorium, probably with
the object of finding if there lingered an echo
of his last note. This butting in among the
paying portion of the audience is prohibited,
and Harold stopped the artist, who made a
very rude remark. Harold stopped him
again, this time with a punch which landed
with a dull but suitable thud. The party
who took delivery was amazed, for the young
operator was not within two stone of his
poundage. His amazement was enhanced
when Ashton swung a brace of beauties for
good luck. Thenceforth the singer decided
that, he was not popular on the door.
Wilson Forbes, an ancient pro. with a
marked affection for Sfihakspeare, died in the
Melbourne Hospital last week. Forbes had
been an efficient minor mummer in many
plays in Australia until Age practically re-
duced him to the role of a quavering subur-
ban lecturer on the one subject that could
bring a littlr fire to his eye and some of the
old fruitinees back to his voice. Forbes was
reasonably “mad" on the Bard, and had all
the quaint prejudices of the conventional
commentator. He leaves behind a promising
daughter, Lorna, who was recently spoiling
her pleasant features with grease-paint in
the Allan Wilkie co. in Melbourne.
“First Old Man”: Playgoers who liked
his “Lady Frederick” and “The Land of
Promise"’ (just revived by Dot Bbucicault
in London) will be glad of the opportunity
of sampling more of. Somerset Mrtugham’s
stage work. After “The Marriage of
Kitty” Tempest will produce ; “Pene-
lope,” and. by-and-bye, “Mrs. Dot!” both
light comedies from Maugham’s prolific pen.
The English dramatist who, as most: people
know, is also a doctor, has been serring at
the Front for some time.
“Masetto”: “Melb.” (B. 19/4/’l7) ; ’ tells
how Alice Rees was the first exponent here
of “Patience,” Josephine in “Pinafore,’” and
Mabel in “The Pirates of Penzance.” Good
for the first; the other two I dispute. “Pinu-
fore” had a double production on June 7,
’79, one company at the Academy of. Music,
with Alice Lingard as Josephine and, W. H.
Lingard, Emily Wiseman, J. L. Hal#, .Forde
and Skinner filling a good bill, anfl at St.
George’s Hall the same night Docy Stewart
was the Josephine. Three other members
of the family—Richard, Maggie and Nellie
—helped, and George Leopold and Anthony
were in the cast. As to Mabel in “The
Pirates,” Elsa May originated that heroine
at the Royal in May, ’Bl. I think Alice
Rees’s first essay in G. and S. parts was in
“Patience” in the following year.
There’s a cheerful cut-throat game being
played at Maekay (Q.) between a couple of
picture-shows. Recently this lead was made
from the National: —
A Big Free Night !
Any child will be admitted with or without its
parents.
Each Child will receive a Bag of Peanuts at the door
Free, so come along and eat ’em and see
“The Master Key.”
Pictures and Peanuts for Nothing !
The rival show was wondering if it could
afford to provide a steak and oyster supper
with a free ticket of admission when the
mail closed.
Items on the programme of Sydney
Stadium recruiting rally :
B UGLE-BLOWING CHAMPIONSHIP.
ACROBATIC TURN.
But why not call Cook and Hughes on
together and make a duet of it V
This is told of one of our most beloved
male warblers. He was engaged to sing at
one of the Very Best houses and' allowed the
use of a dressing-room in which to adjust his
beautiful moustache between songs. A par-
ticularly luxurious bathroom opened off the
room, and it captured the minstrel’s fancy.
“Dear lady,” he observed to the hostess as
he stooped to kiss her hand on leaving, “I
am in love with your beautiful bathroom. I
must come some day and have a bath in it.”
And two days later he carried out the threat.
Bertie Ballenger, the sporting young
daughter of Colonel Ballenger, took to the
stage some time ago and has since got right
into the limelight in the U.S. She joined a
company under Morosco’s management and
understudied a lead who obligingly fell ill.
Bertha stepped into her shoes with complete
success. Her last Melbourne appearance
was with the Allan Wilkies in “As You Like
It,” on Government House lawn.
DONE TO A “ TURN .”
“Did they throw any eggs at you?"
“No, Calphurnia—I got the bird itself !”
Lillah McCarthy, the good looking Irish
actress who took Maude Jeffries’s place and
made a couple of visits to Australia as
leading lady for Wilson Barrett, has com-
plained to the Divorce Courts Judge in Lon-
don that her husband hasn’t been home to
tea for quite a long while. Hubby is the
busy dramatist and producer, Granville
Barker, who was responsible for putting
his friend Bernard Shaw’s tract, “Getting
Married,” on the boards. He is probably
now thinking out a sequel—“ Gettin-
g Meanwhile Lillah has obtained
a patent for the farcical comedy, “The Res-
titution of Conjugal Rights.”
“Exile”: Melba gave a concert here in
’Frisco on March 29 in aid of the Allies’
War Funds, and raised £4200 from an audi-
ence of 15,000 people. Melba looked
queenly—or portly* as you please—in a
gown of sky-blue velvet, made in long,
straight lines with a square train. She
wore a chaplet of diamonds holding a single
paradise feather in front. The great Aus-
tralian is greater in weight and less in
voice, though maybe that was the bad
acoustic properties of the huge barn which
the ’Friscans blow about so much. In “Lo!
Here the Gentle Lark,” Melba sadly needed
John Lemmone and his flute to till out
her cadenzas. One Puyans, a Cuban, blew
the obligato, and it irresistibly reminded one
of old Martin Simonsen playing the violin
divinely, while his eyes ranged oyer the
audience trying to cheek the box-office tak-
ings. (That’s a memory of a Simonsen
concert in Bendgo 40 years back.) Tina
Lerner played the piano, and Una Bourne,
the Victorian, has played the same things
better for me. Melba wagged an Austra-
lian flag, while we exiles coo-eed and shrieked
“Good old Lilydale,” and “Good old Aus-
tralia”; in fact, there was just a little too
much of the “old” to be polite. As to the
audience—well, the chivalry and beauty of
’Frisco is rather dowdy. The women wear
expensive, ready-made clothes and vast
quantities of imitation diamonds, and the
men seem to keep their evening clothes in
cold storage, and release them for just such
occasions as this. But the crowd should
have given £42,000.
“J.E.” : I disagree with “E.F.’s” disparag-
ing criticism of operatic tenor Dani while
praising Cappelli (B. 12/4/’l7). I’ve heard
Cappelli, Balboni and Lois often, but I’ve lis-
tened in vain for Dani’s wonderful high G’s,
A’s, B's and C’s that used to thrill you and
then fade away to a long-drawn-out diminu-
endo. That is one of the great arts of vocal
production, which Cappelli and his brother
artists never employed; their high notes
seemed to be chopped off as with a meat-
axe. A Bulletin writer summed up Dani
in 1904 as “a singer with a voice like
honeyed milk” ; and that was very near it.
“A.T.S.”: I know nothing of the row said
to have occurred in Melbourne in “Madame
Angot” between Clara Thompson and Mrs.
Lambert as Lange and Clairette, but I was
present at the Royal, Adelaide, on March 9,
1877, at a performance of “Madame Angot”
when the disturbance occurred between the
Lambert and Catherine Lewis. The opera
was not finished that night. Catherine sub-
sequently apologised.
Illuminating shaft from .Toe Cook’s
rhetoric (S. M. Herald, l/5/’l7) :
The world is on fire. We have to put that fire
out, and see that it never breaks out again once
more to darken the world with its devastating-
flames. (Applause.)
In Victoria the preferential-voting system
has been responsible for another striking
election result. There were four candidates
for Benambra, the Assembly seat vacated by
John Leckie. All four called themselves
Liberals. On the first count Leslie Sambell
led by 364 from David Langlands, of Glen-
maggie, while Henry Beardmore missed the
bottom place (George Jephcott’s) by 11
votes. Nearly half .Teph.’s second-prefs. went
to Beardmore, though on the second count
Sambell still led by 239, with Langlands
third. Langlands’ prefs., however, went 3to
1 in favor of Beardmore, who won by 273
votes. Insectarians did their best to -cloud
the main issue, which was that of national
economy. The winner in the scramble is a
strong advocate of killing the goose that lays
the golden loans.
Barrister Foster, who is opposing Watt
for Balaclava (Vic.), states from the public
platform that one manifestation of the
Prussian censorship which has been imposed
on Australia is that the authorities have
removed from public libraries copies of
Hansard containing a speech delivered by
Pearce at the time of the S’Afriean
unpleasantness, wherein Pearce expressed
doubt whether Australia would be justified in
sending troops to aid in that or any other
war in which Britain might be engaged. If
Pearce wishes to swallow his words he is
at liberty to do so; but that anyone should
use an official position to have Parliamentary
records removed from public institutions
(and Foster’s statement has not been con-
tradicted, although reported in the press)
is quite another matter.
[B. J. H. Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road, Elwood, Vic.]
Though not a candidate, ex-Rep. Sam
Mauger is conducting a cross-country cam-
paign of his own in support of his political
principles, notably in the matters of tariff
and industrial reform ; and he is the holder
of a vast sheaf of correspondence, from all
over the State, urging him to take part in
the Senate campaign. But there is no room
for Samuel. There is, in fact, no room for
any body who isn’t machine-made. If
Samuel doesn’t please one of two small
juntas elected by nobody, Samuel has no
hope in Australian politics. The people
may choose between Smith and Jones. But
the junta reserves to itself the sole right to
choose between Smith and Thomson and
Robinson and Mulvaney and everybody else
in the directory. That is Party. It cer-
tainly isn’t Democracy.
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrali,,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
“PROFESSIONAL” TERMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In chesty tones he asked of her
Her terms for board and bed.
The hash-house ma'am seemed filled with gloom;
“It all depends upon the room—
A guinea up,” she said.
“But I’m an aetor-r, ma’am,” declared
Hugh Montmorency Browne.
Suspicion showed upon her face.
“My terms,” she mentioned, "in that case
Will be a guinea down!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
ZxjfVuna,
CURES ECZEMA.
Exzerma has made its name simply on its merits.
It has not been over-boomed or over-advertised, but
it has relied on the testimony of grateful users to
make its qualities known. Many sufferers from eczema
of long standing have written Mr. S. Fielder telling
him of the great relief they obtained with one bottle
of Exzerma and the cure which resulted from per-
severing. No home should be without it. [5
All Chemists & Druggists, or
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
51; 216
fg
A £l4 Machine
Drawers,
£8 10S.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A. Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and yon want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”— to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for grandpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can rest easy after giving
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.”
For 30 years California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages ana
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles
of two sizes, Is. ljd. and Xs 9d. I®
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Red Ned”: xl few weeks ago we hap-
pened to be stationed in the sand alongside
an English infantry regiment which owned a
dandy little captain as well-groomed as a
toy-terrier. His most important job seemed
to be to strut up and down between the two
camps until it was time to go and change
into a new uniform; and we marvelled at
his easy life until we heard he was the son
of one of the big noses in Lombard-street. To
prevent the men of his regiment deteriorat-
ing from contact with us brigands, a lecture
by the commanding officer was thought’advis-
able. When he got thoroughly warmed up he
Avorked this off: “Men, it is not all misfor-
tune to he camped near these undisciplined
Australians. For Ave have to consider the
force of our example; and I am pleased to
add they have already begun to copy us.
Only yesterday I heard one of their officers
blow a whistle,” Thank Heaven, there’s
hope for us! IVe may help to Avin this war
yet.
PRACTICAL POLITICS.
SHE: “Going to vote for the Labor party!
Why?”
HE: “Bound to —common gratitude! Since
they stuck on the new Death Duties my
old governor has handed me a hundred
thousand to prevent the country getting
a cut out of it when he dies. ’
From a German message to U.S.A.
-papers:— >
Germany’s food-dictator says the responsibility for
short food-crops in that country falls upon the Lord.
The junior partner in the firm of Hohen-
zollern, Gott and Co. will be getting sacked
yet.
“Peg-Leg” : I met the jackals of the army
when malaria put me into a field hospital in
Mesopotamia, where the wards and the
kitchen were manned by coolies. When the
doctor ordered an egg each for the half-dozen
patients in the ward, the faithful nigger
cracked three only, divided them into six
equal parts, and Sold the other three at a
couple of shillings apiece. It was profit-
able when the ward had eggs three times a
day for a month or two. Incidentally, Chris-
tianity isn’t what it is cracked up to be.
The white troops in the field existed on bully
beef and condensed milk, but a flock of goats
and sheep were supplied for the colored regi-
ments, whose religion demanded that they
have only fresh meat and milk. How r ever,
we did not mind that so much as the fact
that a strict and impenetrable guard was
posted around the flock at night. That was
“dirt.”
* * * *
The enduring Australian. It happened in
Port Melbourne. Some children were lark-
ing in a stable, and after it was all over and
a couple had gone in to tea, a small daughter
next door casually informed her mother that
Artie, the youngster from over the way, was
under the floor, and couldn’t get out. Inves-
tigation disclosed that a. door had fallen back
on the boy, and pinned him to the stone
floor-. Artie, aged seven, had a shinbone and
two ribs broken. Asked by his mother, “But
why didn’t you cry out?” he answered
gravely: “I couldn’t cry. You see, we were
playing soldiers.”
# * * *
“S.E.” : An illustration of the way to win
a war. A major, who has done his share of
home service,, and was reckoned good enough
to command a battalion for many months,
has been trying ever since the war broke out
to get to the Front. A couple of weeks ago
he again wrote and begged to be allowed to
go and fight. “Are you willing to go as a
second lieutenant?” asked Victoria Barracks.
“Yes, go as anything,” declared the desper-
ate soldier. But the brains at Headquarters
devised a counter even for that. They wrote
back pointing out that there were no vacan-
cies, and actually added that, even if there
were a vacancy, the appliccant would have to
qualify at Duntroon for a second lieutenant!
This to a man who has been examined and
passed by a board of General Staff Officers
for the rank of major within the past 12
months, and who was subsequently promoted
to wear the crown ! [And this is the offi-
cial “explanation” : “Officers of the rank of
major are not being sent from Australia at
present. They are only sent when new
units are formed, and lately only reinforce-
ments have been leaving Australia.”]
“F.”: There was truth, seemingly, in the
first weird story of how China came to break
off friendly relations with Germany. The cable
stated that the Hun ambassador at Pekin,
with a view to convincing the Government
that vonderful Sherman resourcefulness
must vin in der long
r-run, bragged to a pious
mandarin of the vonder-
ful Sherman methods of
treating human corpses
for utility purposes.
Whereupon the Chinese
Minister raised his hands
in horror, and recom-
mended a diplomatic rup-
ture right away. It had
never occurred to the
clumsy Hun braggart
that reverence for the
dead is a central plank in
China’s platform, and
that the vond erf u 1
methods of turning dead
soldiers to account were
too loathsome for Chinese
words. At the time the
story was pooh-poohed as
too absurd a parody on
educated German charac-
ter. It was “an impu-
dent newspaper yarn.”
But now conformation
has come along through
the grace of the Berlin
correspondent of the
Lokal Anzeiger —a pat-
riotic journalist who re-
ferred to the “great
corpse-exploitation estab-
lishment of the Cham-
pagne army group” as a triumph of Kultur,
since that nation is most kultured which can
most completely bend science to its own use.
“Costs” : Re soldiers’ wills. The briefest
I know, and as good as any, was scribbled
by an Adelaide Bllljim in his pay-book:
"Everything to mother.” And very likely he
was.
“Opip”: The other night we went over
and took 300 yards of trench and some
prisoners. Next morning 05 of them were
being marched to the rear, when a cheerful
Australian lad called out: “Well, who’s win-
ning now, Fritzy?” But Fritzy wasn’t in a
mood for jokes. “Look at der plauky map!"
was the straight left that staggered most of
us. This stung the escort a bit. Further
back we passed a couple of Sin. howitzers.
Alongside one 10 shells stood ready for
immediate use. “Not too many shells for
your big pieces,” sneered Fritz. “Yairs,”
drawled Billjim, the conqueror, "when
we’ve fired that lot we’re licked!” In the
roar that followed it was Fritzy’s turn to
feel uncomfortable.
NOTHING MUCH REQUIRED.
STAGE MANAGES: “I wish you would take the part — it’s in aid of the Red Cross, you
know.”
LADY : “I’m sorry, hut I couldn’t afford to dress it.”
STAGE MANAGER: “Oh, that would he nothing! It’s all in the country and outside, you
know —anything would do; just a sunbonnet.”
“Peru”: The 7000-ton Lanfranc, recently
submarined while acting as hospital ship,
was, except for her sister craft the Antony,
the biggest steamer that traded regularly
from Liverpool to Manaos, 1000 miles up the
Amazon river. If the fine Australian coastal
boat Katoomba be excepted, she was also
probably the most comfortable passenger
boat afloat for her size. She was built in
1906, and owned with some 30 other steam-
ers by A. A. Booth and his family. Booth
at the age of 36 became chairman of the
Cunard Line, and was made a baronet last
year for managing the transport work of
the British Government when the war broke
out. The Booth Line problem was to have
quick-carriers, fitted for passengers, to bring
the valuable rubber freights from the Ama-
zon. A single cargo was occasionally worth
half a million sterling. The writer once
remarked to the juvenile Cunard chairman
on the Liverpool wharf, as the Lanfranc was
moving away from her berth: “She’s a
pretty ship.” “And she does as pretty as
she is,” said her proud owner. The line
paid a uniform 10 p.c. I can imagine how
he felt when the Huns murdered the beauty
of the fleet.
Prom our country contemporaries:—
Dogleg Gully, Monday.—The plague of mice has
been responsible for a tragedy which has cast a
gloom over the whole district. Brought to the verge
of ruin by the devouring element in the shape of the
voracious rodent, Mr. Fergus McHaggis, a respected
fellow-townsman, was endeavoring to wile away an
hour by the perusal of the works of Scotia’s bard.
Unfortunately he came across a eulogistic reference
to the furry denizen of the wheat-stacks in a poem
where Burns described the mouse as a “wee, sleekit,
cow’rin, timorous beastie.” Mr. McHaggis fell a
victim to the apoplectic seizure which followed.
Ants’ Nest, Tuesday.—The mouse plague is
assuming alarming proportions. The local ladies are
living on tables, with their feet in dishes full of
water, having been reduced to a state of nervous
prostration by the invading animals. The school-
mistress yesterday reached the top of the ■ tank in
one bound in her effort to avoid a mouse which
forced her to cry peccavi. A perpendicular dis-
tance of Bft. was cleared, and nothing like it has
been accomplished within the memory of the oldest
inhabitant, who was a witness of Gordon’s Leap
at Mount Gambier.
Wattle Flat, Friday.— A picture-show which
screened selections from yEsop’s Fables has met with
a strange fate. Just as the display had been com-
pleted of the pictures accompanying the story of the
mouse freeing the lion by gnawing through the net
which had caught him, the performance came to an
abrupt conclusion owing to mice invading the hall
and eating the bioscope, the operator, and the
films. Mr. Hagelthorn is to be asked to provide free
cats and mousetraps for farmers.
“Wheatstone” : The one article harder to
procure than kangaroo feathers here in Eng-
land is an Australian slouch hat. He is a
very wide awake Billjim who can snare one,
when his own is missing from the rack. The
Hun may blow his tunic off or shrapnel his
trousers to ribbons, but it’s a dead Billjim
that parts with his hat. That hat is the
Anzac trade-mark ; and don’t these fellows
love their country—mine too !
THE BIS APPOINTMENT.
RETCRNED SOLDIER ( mistakenly reported
hilled): “Why, aunt, you seem almost
sorry it is really me!”
SPIRITUALIST AUNT: “Oh, no, my son. But
I was so ho piny to see your ghost.”
REFLECTED GLORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dave Scougal, pruning roses, turned
To snarl as Parsons passed.
Ilis eye with vengeful anger burned,
He breathed an evil blast;
And Purves, walking on a crutch,
Straight opened out, and he
Made brief reply that covered much
Of Scougal’s pedigree.
“Cold footer!” David Scougal cried,
And Purves with a chain
Of choice profanity replied.
Then David came again.
“Just look,” said he to half a score
Of grinning local imps.
“His brother’s wounded at the war—
He stays at home and limps!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent peneopies are secured, with un-
;oiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
fd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
gdf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
gfd
.'H° N
k
%
'T'%
t-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £630,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Sir JOHN GRICE, Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
11. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
“Three Stripes”: Private Billjim will
have to put his roving eye in a refrigerator.
The staff at A.I.F. Headquarters, Horse-
terry-road, London, has the pip because
Brig.-Gen. “Bob” Anderson has insisted that
no unofficial communications may take
dace between the 1500 uniforms and the
1000 petticoats on the premises. The build-
ing, formerly a Methody teaching institute,
is a perfect warren of cubby holes and
offices, and, says an official, soldiers and
?irls “are thrown together under circum-
stances that almost invite gossiping and
lirting.” He goes on to say that “several
ncidents” resulting from the association of
the sexes have been brought under notice;
lence the new regulation, which will remain
n force until new quarters are found for the
Oris and women.
A story of these “undisciplined” Aus-
tralians :—-
A company of the A.I.F. were told to hang on to
m outpost till reserves came up and were doing so
when the O.C. sent in word that he was almost out
of ammunition. A staff-officer of the Imperial A.S.C.
sent for a sergeant of the A.I.F. and ordered him and
lis platoon to guard a convoy of five motor-waggons
loaded with ammunition, and take them along the
main road to the outpost. “I can never get through,
dr. But I could get through across country behind
the hills,” he said. “Your orders are to go by the
main road, and no other route,” replied the staff-
officer, and the jarred sergeant went off to get his
olatoon ready. lie mounted his men on the motors,
started, and soon ran into a hail of bullets, but
lushed on. Half-way through the leading motor
Topped ; a bullet had penetrated the water tank and
disabled it. The sergeant backed his motor, and
getting a towline out, pulled it along and fought
through to the outpost to the great joy of the O.G.
Then they started to unload the motors, only to find
every box empty ! The sergeant was giving his
opinion of Imperial staff-officers when a second con-
voy of motors was seen approaching from another
direction. They roared up, and were found to have
;heir boxes full. All hands set to to hold the outpost,
and did so till reserves arrived and the Huns dis-
persed. Then the sergeant reloaded his motors with
his empty boxes, returned to headquarters and re-
ported—oh, so sweetly—to the staff-officer, who
looked at him with a grim smile. Then lie unbent
NO ESCAPE.
MOLLY: “I hear your brother has enlisted.”
POLLY: “Yes, he couldn’t help himself. His
fiancee’s father is a recruiting sergeant.”
and explained. “You did your job, as you chaps
always do,” he said. “And it was most necessary
that it should be done just as ordered. We knew the
boxes were empty, but we had to get ammunition
to those men somehow. The full boxes went through
ihe hills and never met a German. They gave their
attention to you while it was being- done. See!”
The sergeant and his hard-fighting- platoon were
granted a fortnight’s leave in London for the little
job.
From a wounded Billjim officer in Blighty :
If the Australian at home wants to do something
’or the Australian abroad let him knock off the
persistent comparison between the earnestness of
England and the indifference of Australia. Nothing
jould be less true, nothing more painful to the
feelings of the Australian in England. There
would be much more appropriateness in Australia
isking Young England to take this business seriously.
It doesn’t. With these people it is football, foot-
ball, football. They think football, they talk foot-
ball. They would have regarded Kitchener as a big-
man if he had played football. Certainly hundreds
of thousands of them would then have felt the
tragedy of his death as a more personal loss.
MOTLEY NOT THE ONLY WEAR.
“We are right in it —stripes seem to he all
the go.”
“Oh, no! The men who ‘go’ are in khaki.”
“Caroline”: I am a teacher in one of the
North Sydney schools. On Anzac Day I
asked the children to tell me anything they
knew of the Gallipoli campaign. One little
chap told me he had two brothers, twins,
who had gone to Gallipoli at the same time,
had both been wounded in the legs, and had
returned together. “Wasn’t it grand.” I
said, “to get them both back again! What
did mother say then?” “She didn’t say any-
thing. but father did.” “What did he say,
Jack?” “‘Serves yer right fer goin’!’ ”
They are telling of an “official” candidate
for a Vic. provincial district who had rather
a bad time at the hands of one energetic
interjector. She was an aggressive female
who attacked him at practically all his
meetings, and often got home on him with
personal' reflections and revelations. The
candidate bore it with almost pitiful meek-
ness, declining to have the lady
ejected or otherwise disposed of.
He said he hoped he could hold
his own against a woman in
any circumstances, but he said
it with such dejection that the
assertion did not carry convic-
tion half a yard. At a small
Mechanics’ Hall meeting in an
outskirt township the other
night the dame (who came to be
known as “the woman in the
red hat”) bobbed up again, cut-
ting into the most effective part
of the candidate’s address, and
started what threatened to be a
protracted oration on the quali-
fications of women as politi-
cians, judges, etc. Here the
poor man on the platform lost
his last shred of patience. “Now, for
Heaven’s sake, sit down, Marie!” he
wailed. “You know you gave me all
that in bed last night.” (It was all
right. The electorate now knows them
better. The lady is the candidate’s lawful
wedded wife.)
The Ballarat has just been torpedoed in
the English Channel with Australian rein-
forcements aboard; and they behaved as
splendidly as the other Australians did on
the Southland. It was this P. and O. boat
that The Bulletin told a story about a
while ago to illustrate the administration
of the Naval Department, though, of course,
her name couldn’t be mentioned at the time.
On being employed to bring Tommies from
England to Mesopotamia, she was torn to
pieces; among other things a smoke-room
for the officers was built on deck. Coming
on to Australia the smoke-room (which had
been in use just 23 days) was torn down in
Sydney and a hospital was put up in its
place. The hospital was practically unused
during the voyage back from Australia. Then
it was pulled to pieces. How many times
this pretty little game has been played Tiie
Bulletin doesn’t know. All it knows is
that, for lack of co-ordination between Brit-
ish and Australian authorities, thousands
of pounds were simply thrown away on this
ship alone.
“Polyphemus”: Industrial Magistrate
Morris (Townsville) had to listen recently
to a long discussion on female clerks and
their rate of pay. Certain local employers
protested against giving women equal pay
with men, on the
ground that, as these
employers had proved
in their own employ-
ment, girls were not
as strong physically
and had not the same
energy, concentration
or initiative as men.
It may be heresy to
say so nowadays, but
I believe all this is
perfectly true. Years
ago, as the head of an
important State De-
partment, I was con-
tinually worried by the
heads of sub-depart-
ments growling at
being compelled to in-
troduce female clerks;
wit li out exception
these heads declared
that they found female
clerks comparatively
inefficient. There ought
by this time to be a
mass of trustworthy
evidence on the point;
and it is of great im-
portance that it should
be collated. For, obvi-
ously, if the general
experience is as I have
found it in my own
State, the female worker
will be the sufferer in
the long run by a rule
which declares that, if
employed at all, she
must receive the same pay as the male.
Melbourne Uni., having turned out one
complete-course farmer in 10 years, has
lately been considering the position of its
Agricultural branch. A committee, told off
by the Uni. Council to make a report, recom-
mends, among other things, that six State
jobs per annum should be guaranteed by the
Government to graduates of the school.
There is something in this. In the U.S.A.,
for instance, the trained agricultural expert
is being widely used as a travelling educator
for the already-established farmer, showing
him how to stop waste and produce more,
and this has been responsible for a big agri-
cultural uplift. So a sound, largely-practi-
cal, special course in agriculture, with its
hoofs pared and its tail combed out, may yet:
be an excellent thing for Australian produc-
tion, even though its immediate results are
only a crop of teachers and special-job men.
“Tenbob”: This is how the Civil Service
does it. I was employed at a Common-
wealth Department in Sydney,
when the boss (salary £750 per
annum) found two Id. mouse-
traps were needed. Now :i>pri-
vate employer would have given
the office-boy tuppence and 10
minutes to complete the job—
including the baiting and set-
ting. But that isn’t the Gov-
ernment way. The usual “for-
mal order” was typewritten, and
given to the buyer (salary £2lO
p.a.). A long foolscap receipt
note was also punched out, and
the buyer went forth and ran-
sacked the city to find where
penny traps were cheapest. The
winning firm duly delivered and
invoiced the goods on the usual
Government form, which was
signed by aforesaid boss (£750
p.a.) in one place and initialled
by him in another. The account
was then “certified” and signed
by another oflicah in two places
£3BO p.a.), and duly
entered in an accounts
register by another man
(£l5O p.a.). A cheque
was then drawn for the
assassinating apparatus
by a clerk (£2BO p.a.).
The cheque was posted
to the firm bv another
clerk (£ISO p.a.). The
account was then entered
in the monthly list of ex-
penditure by a third clerk
(£l9O p.a.), and sent to
Melbourne, where they will have another
circus with it. Now run along and pay
your Federal Income Tax.
The usual charge was brought against a
country youth at St. Kilda (Vic.) the other
day. The boy was alleged to have enticed
the girl to the beach and ravished her,
despite her strenuous resistance. The yarn
looked convincing until counsel for the
defendant got going. He said that his client
had on several previous occasions been giddy
with the lady, with her consent; and finally
the little dear acknowledged that she had
been a consenting party on the occasion
before the court. Also she admitted that
another man had been sentenced to four
years’ imprisonment for a similar offence
alleged against him by her. When first ques-
tioned about this case she professed not to
remember it, and subsequently explained her
forgetfulness by remarking: “Oh, that was
three or four years ago !” At this stage the
Bench told the accused youth that he might
go home, and the damsel also tripped from
the court without even being assured that
she was a bold girl.
* # * *
“T. 0.1.” : Apropos the Read baronetcy (B.
26/4/T7). The following appeared in
“Whittaker’s Peerage,” 1909 :
Read Baronetcy (England 1641 in the name of
Reade), extinct 1711, but was assumed in Australia
as 9th baronet by the late John Cecil Read, and is
now persisted in by his son, William Vero (of Arawa,
Waverley, N. S. Wales). As usual in such cases,
the claim is based upon some late discovered unreg-
istered relative; but no authority whatever makes
the slightest mention of such line, and our only
information is derived from an Australian newspaper,
which gravely charges us all with resting in gross
ignorance. Other untraceable titles make their
appearance at the Antipodes from time to time;
thus in January, 1904, there was a report of the
death of “Sir James Hamilton, Bt” ; in the following
April appeared that of a soi-disant Knight, Sir
11. D. C. Ohapelle,” and only a little later that of
a “Lady Diy,” widow of some supposed Knight of
Tasmania.
But “Whittaker” is undoubtedly in error
about the Drys, as the Speck had Sir Richard
Dry, a Speaker and Premier of Tasmania, a
native of that State, distinguished in every
walk of life.
* * * *
At South Melbourne, an Industrial suburb
which swarms with children, Not ley Moore,
P.M., recently had before him what he
described as “the worst case [of adulterated-
milk selling] ever before the court.” The
evidence showed that defendant and his
brother had gone for a ride on the old milk-
cart, taking with them four cans —one filled
with water, another with skim-milk, a third
with milk-up-to-standard and a fourth con-
taining milk plus 27 per cent, of added
water. The PAL sniffed and remarked that
the combination of cans was significant:
then he lifted up his official feather and
smote defendant with a fine of £B. If a
citizen is found killing babies with arsenic,
or by tying tape around their necks, there
is liable to be a hanging soon. But when a
milk-seller peddles slow murder in a suburb
packed with children, the Law, after roar-
ing at the murderer, whacks the profits with
him and lets him go. It couldn’t give him
“the office” more plainly if it. winked at him
as it saw him off.
A HARD CASE.
In England there is a common impression that
two-thirds of the Anzacs are the sons of wealthy men.
LUCINDA: “Is it true that your father cut
you off with a shilling?"
JIMBTLL: “Yes. And I had to lend him the
shilling.”
THE WAY OF IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
K chill, slow voice and a steel-cold glance,
And a white face turned away
And the sun on the waters forgot to dance,
And the gold world turned to grey.
Twin hearts that ache with a leaden beat,
And a mouth made pale with pain....
And two that meet in a crowded street,
And draw together again.
A pressure of hands, a look in the eyes,
And a voice no longer c01d....
A light leaps out of the scowling skies,
And a grey world turns to gold !
x.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


First Prussian Super-Sausage : “ Cannon fodder ? Not
at all—pigs’ food.”
‘Traveller for the Blood and Bone
Factory: “ Himmel, what a
superb specimen of manhood!
Must be at least a barrel of
in him.”
Young Hindenburg Blutwurst:
‘’Now, I wonder who this
pork reminds me of l”
General in Command of Human
Pigs’ Food Section: ‘‘A great pity
Prince Karl fell in the Aus-
tralian lines! What a splendid
advertisement he would have
made for a high-priced line of
Special Royal Manure l"
General: “ There must be no waste.
Send only the fattest into the
firing line.”
Frau Spoopendyke: *‘Alas! This 4
official token from the War ‘
. Office tells me that your
pore father is no more.”
A PAGE OF KULTUR.


THE DEAL.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
*
%
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS &
WHITTY
MAKERS;
x'r X ' Av*
Yl NO
MS^BSt
ggs&
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
May birthdays: Journalist-politician Dave
Gordon (S.A.), 52, and 'Charles Earle
(Dominion newspaper, Wellington), 46, on
4th ; Scientist Edgar Waite (S.A.), 51 on
stli; Geo. M. Prendergast (Vic.) 63 on
6th; H. C. L. Anderson (Sydney), formerly
Under-Sec. for Agric., Sydney, 64 on 10th ;
Pope Cooper, Queensland’s Chief Justice, 69
on 12th; J. W. Blair (ex-Attorney-Gen.,
Q.), 46 on 16th; Newton Moore, W. Aus.
ex-Agent-Gen., 47, and Justice Chubb (Q.),
72 on 17tli; A. B. Moncrieff, formerly S.
Aus. Railways Commissioner, 72 on 22nd;
11. Angus Parsons, K.C. (S.A.), 45 on 23rd ;
John Portus, formerly N.S.W. Under-Sec.
WAITING TO SURPRISE THEM.
SHE: “Oh, you make me tired always talking
about your relations at the war. Why
don’t you go there yourself instead of
hiding out here?”
HE: “Hush! I’m not hiding. I’m in
ambush.”
of 1\ orks, 60 on 25th ; Archgaiters Riley, of
Perth, 03, and Charles 11. Goode (Adelaide’s
oldest merchant), 90 on 26th; Dr. Fred
Bird (Melb,), 49 on 27 th; Fred T.
Robertson (Adelaide Advertiser), 49 on
28th; poet G. Gordon McCrae (Melb.). 84
on 29th; and Prof. R. J. A. Berry (Melb.
Uni.), 50 on 30th.
It was one of the Smiths who saved the
day at Lagnicourt, turned an Australian
repulse into a German rout, and gave Bill-
jim such a chance to nse his rifle as he had
not had since May, 1915, when tile Turks
were laid out in mown swaths on Gallipoli.
The_ counter-attack which recovered the Aus-
tralian guns and slew 3000 Germans was
organised by Colonel Bob Smith, D. 5.0.. in
charge of the Fifth Brigade. Smith, a fine,
upstanding soldier of 36, left Australia as
second, in command to Crouch, of the 22nd
Battalion. In December last, after acting
as colonel of another brigade, he was given
CENSORED.
MAUD: "Ere just got a letter from Freddie.
I hope the dear hoy isn’t developing the
swearing ha,hit.”
FLORRIE : “Why, dear?”
MAUD: “Oh, quite a number of words have
been cut out of it.”
command of the Fifth, the appointment
being confirmed, with the rank of temporary
brigadier-general, last February. His was
one of the D.S.O.’s in the New Year
Honors. He was in the wool trade when
he joined a Victorian A.M.F. regiment in
1911.
Died at Parramatta (N.S.W.) last week
a stalwart native of the sleepy town, W. J.
Ferris, ruddy-visaged and amiable, with a
big heart and generous pocket; M.L.A. for a
while, when he talked little and worked
overtime; more than 30 years a municipal
magnate ; pioneer of the volunteer soldiering
system. He was a sturdy Protectionist;
and on the only occasion when Parramatta
electors threw away their old fetish it was
Ferris who persuaded them to do it. He
had had 59 years of sunshine when he
passed out after a short illness.
The exploit of a Victorian youngster
makes the fabled phoenix look like a stuffed
Plymouth Rock. Flight Lieut. Frank
Hubert McNamara, who was 22 when he
left his job as State-school teacher and
joined the Flying Corps as a lieutenant last
year, was despatched 60 miles with another
aviator to destroy the railway along which
Abdul was sending reinforcements to Gaza.
He dropped two bombs on the line, and, at
a height of 100 ft,, flew up and down a
troop train, outing the passengers with his
machine-gun. Wounded, he took flight, but
swooped to the rescue of his mate, whose
aeroplane had come to grief. Owing to his
wounds he smashed his own machine on
landing. The pilot and observer of the
other ’plane were out of action, but in the
face of the oncoming Turks McNamara burnt
his own machine-and rose from its ashes in
the other, bringing the pilot and the observer
off. He is now in hospital at Alexandria.
The lad, who has a brother in the artillery
in France, is a son of W. F. McNamara,
one time president of the A.N.A. He has
been recommended for the V.C.
Henry Carey Dangar, N. S. Wales M.L.C.,
who died last week, aged 86 years, was son of
that Henry Dangar who came from Corn-
wall to Australia in the ’2o’s, and obtained
employment as a Government surveyor at
Newcastle, which city he laid out in part.
In 1826 he - obtained a grant of 700 acres
near Singleton, and named it after his birth-
place, Neotsfield. Later on, he went further
out and had a station known as Myall Creek,
which in IS3S became notorious over the
holocaust of a tribe of blacks, for which a
number of men were, executed in the gaol
yard in Lower George-street. Henry Carey
Dangar was called to the English Bar in
1854. had chambers in King-street, but never
sought briefs. In his young days he was
enthusiastic in rifle shooting and a patron
of cricket. His wife, a daughter of Captain
Lamb, died a year ago.
Now that the Czar lias been thrown out
of his job the wonder grows that he should
have been taken seriously
for so long. An interesting
yarn entitled “Frightening
the Czar” was published in
Uondon five years ago. A
Russian countess, formerly
billeted at the Court, told
how an apparition of the
Czar’s late unlameuted
father, lying in a coffin, was
fixed up in a room adjoining
his study and introduced to
his notice by sepulchral
noises. The whole ghostly
bus’ness was worked from
below by means of trap-
doors. ITol,v-man Rasputin,
lately assassinated. was
pulling the strings. The
countess got. a graphic
account of the appalling
show from the Czar himself
in the first place, and then
she consulted the doctor
who had been called in to
view the corpse of a soldier
supposed to have died of
fright at the apparition, but
which had probably been
dragged into the imposture
before the conspirators
started to scare the Czar.
The royal palace reeked of
Rasputinism five years ago,
and was an old-established
scandal even then. Yet as
recently as New Year week
we were getting cabled
accounts of the Czar’s move-
ments and manifestoes as
though lie were a sane
person of importance!
John J. Cohen, though the ,13th Speaker
of the N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly, is only
the second graduate of Sydney ’Varsity to
hold the position. “Toby” Barton was the
first. Colien graduated M.A. in 1881 and
was called to the Bar in ’94.
J. J. Stuckey, just dead in Adelaide at 74,
was one of those brilliant specialists who
never quite “arrive” unless they find their
own special groove to run in. About 1860
he was showing an almost uncanny aptitude
for mathematics at St. Peter’s College, Ade-
laide. He was the first South Australian
to go to Cambridge, and there he became a
“wrangler”—fifth in all England (of his
year) in his pet subject. But the Higher
Mathematics were hard to make a living out
of, and he took up Law, in which he proved
to be no better than other men less scho-
lastically brilliant. In later years, with
declining health, he returned to his first love,
and only last year published a book of
actuarial tables, the result of long and
patient calculation. Stuckey ought to have
been a Professor, and in these days of multi-
plication of universities doubtless would have
been one.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : A controversy
is raging as to whether the recently-dead
Rev. Wm. Scott was the first Australian
astronomer. A relative of Mr. Dunlop, of
Governor Brisbane’s time, claims for him
the honor. Both are in error. The first
Australian astronomer was Lieut. William
Dawes, of the Marines, who was placed by
Governor Phillip in charge of the observa-
tory on Point Maskelyne, so named after
the then Astronomer Royal of England, but
afterwards called “Dawes Point.” The
observatory was built “to receive the astro-
nomical instruments sent out by the Board
of Longitude” for the purpose of observing
a comet which was expected to be seen about
the end of the year.
Signed off the other day at Forthside
(Tas.), John Daly, probably the Speck’s
oldest inhabitant. He came from County
Kerry in the misty long ago, and claimed to
he 106 years old. But the record will give
teetotallers no joy, for he learnt to respect
whisky and tobacco when he was a boy of 14
and enjoyed them to the end.
Died of wounds in France. Major Price
J. Morgan, a youngster that Launceston has
always expected a lot from, right from the
days when as a nipper he started to win
scholarships. He led the first batch of Tas-
manians to Duutroon, and went through
Gallipoli as” Lieutenant of the 9th Battery.
After going on to France lie was promoted
Captain of the 17th Battery; then he was
given a spell of staff work, and recently was
sent back to the 17th with the crown on liis
youthful shoulder.
Dead, at East Maitland (N.S.W.), George
T. Chambers, gent, one, etc., at the age of
74. He was born at Maitland, and came of
a family of lawyers; he himself was
admitted to practice in 1867. One
Charles Henry Chambers, solicitor, was
the first town-clerk of Sydney. This
early municipal official was the father
of Miss Lucy < lumbers, the well-known
contralto of the '(id's and ’7o’s. Another of
the family. Hugh John Chambers, was high
up in the profession in Victoria, and on one
occasion also distinguished himself as an
amateur actor, being Lieutenant Worthington
in “The Poor Gentleman” on the occasion of
a benefit to G. I’. Brooke.
Crossed the Jordan at 84. Alfred Marson
Nash Rose, of Campbelltown (N.S.W.). A
century ago his father, Thomas Rose, kept
The Rose and Crown, on the site now occu-
pied by the Daily Telegraph in Sydney.
The lucky pub-keeper had a grant of all the
block bounded by King, Elizabeth, Market
and Castlereagh streets, and made it bloom
as a garden. The pub faced Castlereagli-
street, and was the headquarters of Syd-
ney’s early “sports,” the racecourse being on
Hyde Park. In 1819 Governor Macquarie
wanted a. spot to build a large school-house,
and, deciding on a portion of Rose's garden,
informed Rose that if he would give up the
land he could have a grant lip the country.
Rose agreed, and Macquarie built his
academy, which modern Sydney knows as
the Girls’ High School. In lieu of it Rose
received 1300 acres on the east side of Camp-
belltown, and it was there his son died.
Jonathan Tozer, who passed out at Sydney
the other day, aged 62, was a brother of
now deceased Horace, one-time Queensland
politician and Agent-General. He had been
in the service of the Bank of N. S. Wales
for over 40 years, and had kept an eye on
the overdrafts at Mudgee, Crookwell, Coota-
munclra and other N.S.W. country towns.
Son Claude, a doctor, has been wearing
khaki with the A.M.C. in Gallipoli and
France for two years past.
Prof. Larry Rentoul has got His
Majesty’s special permission to publish a
pome entitled “Australia’s Message to King
George V.” The message would have been
just as truly loyal without the special per-
mission, but somehow Larry couldn’t be
happy till he got it. Pie wanted it, in fact,
for paragraphic advertisement of his new
booklet of verses. And there are people
who deny the usefulness of the monarchy !
LETTING OUT THE SECRET.
JONES: “ That fellow Brown is a fool.”
ROBINSON: “Why, what’s he been doing?”
JONES: “I told him that I bossed my wife,
and he went and told her.”
J. T. McMahon, killed in action near
Lagnicourt on Easter Monday, was an old
boy of St. Joseph’s College, Hunter’s Hill
(N.S.W.), and three years ago got his B.E.
degree at Sydney Uni. Some months before
reaching his 21st birthday McMahon was a
demonstrator in the Uni. engineering school;
afterwards he was an engineer in the Ma
State’s Works Department.
HE GALLOPED ROUND AND ROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Senator Pearce at Shop >arton likened Mr. Tudor
and other members of the Official. Labor Party in
their treatment of Mr. Hughes to snarling curs at
the feet of a galloping horse. — Argus.
He galloped round and round and round and snorted
as he went;
Upon the task of getting-therc his energies were bent.
From here to yonder, lap by lap, persistently he
pressed
With eyes that sought the track ahead and deeply-
heaving- chest,
And as around the roaring ring so urgently he tore,
Each moment brought him to a spot where he had
been before.
He galloped round and round—and how the talent
yelled to see
The trained pack, hard upon his heels, pursue him
earnestly !
Like some swift shadow speeding through the Land
of Vain Desire
He sprinted round and round and round and never
seemed to tire.
A pale, stern look of superhuman confidence he wore.
And passed along to pass more posts that he had
passed before. ' ■
He galloped round like anything, in quite apparent
haste,
As though he had an urgvet call, with little time
to waste,
In much the manner, first and last, -of one by
hornet i stung ;
And all the time the pack pursued him, loudly giving
tongue;
While every stride lie compassed added something
to the score
Of moments when he reached a spot he'd often
reached before.
Ho galloped round and round and round and as lic_
made the pace
The pack pursued him, persevering grimly in the
chase.
Whither he went they went, of course, and while he
circled they
Kept circling, too, and snapped and snarled in quite
a serious way.
Yet, arovncl the roaring ring perspiringly they
tore,
Each moment brought them back again to where
they’d been before.
GLEN IRIS, VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


Nelson s'VICTORY
AS SHE FLOATS TO-OAY
ENGLAND
EXPECTS
EVERY
MAN
WILL
DO
g
D
u
T
I
ENGLAND
EXPECTS
EVERY
MAN
WILL
SIGNAL COLORS.
1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Yellow, Red, Yellow.
3. Yellow Cross on Blue field.
1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Blue, White, Red bands.
3. Yellow and Blue.
1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Blue, White, Red bands.
3. Blue Cross on White field.
1. 'White and Red squares.
2. Blue, White, Blue.
3. Blue Cross on White field.
1. Yellow and Blue.
2. Yellow, Red, Yellow.
*3. Black Clubs on White field.
THE T. C. WILLIAMS’
VICTORY TOBACCO
SIGNAL COLORS.
DO l. White Square on Blue field.
1. Black, Yellow, Black.
3. White, Blue.
HIS 1. Yellow Cross on Blue field.
2. Blue, White, Blue.
3. White, Blue.
D 1. White and Red squares.
U 1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Blue Cross on White field.
T 1. Blue Cross on White field.
2. Yellow, Blue.
Y 1. White Square on Blue field.
2. White and Red squares.
“ VICTORY ” CUT and “ VICTORY ** PLUG are
well Known throug'hout the whole of Australia
as the leading' Aromatic or Brig'ht Tobacco.
VICTO RY" Flake-cut. "VICTORY Special
Sealed
Tins.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE. ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buvers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
A Wise Builder Wants More than Words.
He wants proof that \DAMAX ROOFING is “the best that his money can buy.” So
we have prepared a well-ilFstrated, 20-page Booklet, “The Adamax Series.” which is chockful
of facts about ADAMAX ROOFING and the many uses to which it can be applied. It is
equally serviceable for the Mineowner, the Farmer, the Stockowner, the Dairy Farmer, the
Country Home Builder, etc. Send for a FREE COPY. It will g-o to you as soon as we
receive your name and address.
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD,, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-r-75 King William Street.
SYDNEY— 2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society :
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
• Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
Uec., £ £ £ £ £
1903.. 2,598,809 1,451,680 229,987 21,832 895,310
1904.. 2,687,155 1,519,890 237,293 37,260 892,712
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 1 „ rr Q ,^
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 / 8JJ > y4 '
1906.. 2,932,755 1,645,051 259,769 29,818 l non
Aid to Industrial Department 6,741 f JJU >'4b
1907.. 3,086,216 1,738,804 272,267 42.475 1,032,670
1908- 3,184,488 1,781,750 285,804 40,714 1,076,220
1909- 3,337,426 1,875,516 296,585 30,917 1,134,378
1910.. 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
1911- 3,676,105 1,986,708 322,047 22,823 1,344.527
1912- 3,855,880 2,075,701 338,306 31,029 1,410,851
1913- 3,990.266 2.179,021 345,680 27,342 1,438,223
1914.. 4,190,018 2,312,728 367,601 33,568 1,476,121
1915- 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
1916- 4,632,473 2,814,896 408,350 42,563 • 1,366,664
In this annual report Richard Teece, for 27
years general manager and actuary, says
good-bye to the policy-holders, as he has
reached the age at which the society’s Pro-
vident Fund calls him off the salary list.
The directors announce, however, that he
will continue to serve as consulting actuary ;
and any insurance office in the world would
be the better for having him alongside to
ask for an opinion. Mr. Teece has witnessed
tremendous changes not only in the figures
of his society but in the general attitude
towards life assurance. This, as well as
the prosperity of the country has produced a
Splendid increase in the business during his
period of office. Of the 555.091 policies
issued during the 68 years’ life of the'
society no less than 433.012 have been
issued since IS9O. Mainly because of this
preponderance of comparatively new busi-
ness no less than 54.2 p.c. of all the policies
ever issued in the Ordinary department are
still in force. And yet there is a lot of
work for the insurance missionary to do:
for, notwithstanding that Australia is
blessed with offices second to none in the
world, it carries less insurance per head
than Canada, with which it can most fairly
be compared. ‘ \
The past year has been notable for the
heaviness of the claims. Through the death
of members the society has had to pay out
£14512.240, and of this amount no less than
£471,480 is due to claims-arising from the
war: in the previous year the war claims
totalled £343,053. The result of the heavy
mortality among young and comparatively
young policy-holders is to rather seriously
affect bonuses. The following table show's
the history of the society in that respect:—
1888-1893 (boomyears). . 40.3 p.c. of premiums.
1893-1898 . . . . 34.1 „
1898-1903 . . . . 34.8 „
1903-1908 . . . . 36.0 ~
1908-1913 .. .. 38.2 „
1914 39.2 ~ „
1915 30.8 ~
1916 30.1 „
That, notwithstanding the heavy special
calls upon it, the society should be able to
devote oyer 30s: of every £5 to the purchase
of additional insurance for the premium-
payer is a very excellent performance. It
would not be possible if war had no eom-
uensations at all for an office like this. But
in the first place it has made money dearer.
This little table shows how the average
interest earnings on the funds have in-
creased :—■
Interest Realised on Average Funds-
-1905.. £4 9 8 p.c. I 1911.. £4 9 8 p.c.
1906.. 4 9 7 „ | 1912.. 410 5 „
1907. .4 9 11,, | 1913. . 411 8 „
1908. .4 9 4,, i 1914. . 41210 „
1910. .4 9 8,, | 1916. . 417 5 „
That is, say, 6s. p.c. over the pre-war rate ;
and 6s. p.c. on funds amounting to 37
millions means £lll.OOO a year. Part of
this gain is, however, cut away by in-
creased taxation. In 1914 the total ’taxes
were £47.454: for 1915, £57.616; for the
past year. £88.344. This increase shows up
in the expense rate-
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £8 15 6 p.c. 1911.. £8 15 2 p.c.
1906.. 817 2 „ 1912.. 815 5 „
1907.. 8 16 5 ~ 1913.. 8 13 3
1908.. 8 19 6 „ 1914.-. 8 15- 5
1909. . 8 12 11 ~ 1915. .8 9 7 ’’
1910.. S 7 1 „ 1916.. 816 3 „
Excluding taxes, the rate was £ll 4s. sd. p.c.
of premium income in 1915 and £lO 14s. 4d.
p.c. in 1916. But there is a better test of
economy than that; for obviously an office
might very greatly reduce its expense rate
by sitting down instead of chasing new busi-
ness. In the next comparison it is assumed
that the old (renewal) business costs 7 p.c.
and annuity and single-premium business
3 p.c.. the balance of the exes, being the
cost, of new business: —
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiinns. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. 353,345 £39,951 £58,905 99.6 p.c.
LSs, . . 837,164 103,694 131,591 70.1 ..
LS9, ... 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87.4 ..
IDO7 .. 1,791,403 163,348 272,207 85.6 „
19U.1 .. 2,022.470 185.559 291,775 79.8
1913 .. 2,311,217 228,901 345.679 79,8 „
19M .. 2,421,995 219.570 367,-60t 89,6 „
1915 .. 2,521,634 232,768 369,172 82.5 „
1916 .. 2,634,290 276,803 408,350' 80.6 „
No doubt special circumstances have been
helping a bit: many men. before setting out
to the Front, will have taken new policies
or increased old ones at special war-rates
without putting the society to any expense
for canvassing. But that probably no more
than balances the extra outlay through the
high cost of living—a condition which is
doubtless directly responsible for the entry,
“Special bonus to staff, £5420.”
The A.M.P. had up to December 31
applied for £3,650.000 of war loans,
£3,250.000 of it in the Commonwealth, and
had paid up nearly £2,000,000. This affects
the next comparison, which shows the dis-
tribution of assets:—
1905. 1915. 1916.
Loans on moit-rag-e . . 43.5 p.e. 36.7 p-.c. 34.9 p.c.
Public securities .. 26.7 ~ 41.3 44.1 ~
Premises .. .. 1.8 „ 1.8 „ 1.7 „
Foreclosures . . . . 2.9 ~ 0.1 ~ 0.1 ~
Loans on policies . . 20.5 ~ 16.3 ~ 15.9 ~
Other assets . . 4.6 „ 3.8 „ 3.3 ~
No set of policy-holders could want any-
thing better than that: every movement has
been, in this paper’s judgment, a good one.
Unlike its very active competitor, the
M.U.C., the A.M.P. has not, however,
pledged any of its future revenue in order
to subscribe to War loans. It owes nothing
except to its policyholders.
The Industrial department continues to
make fairly rapid progress:—-
industrial department.
Ex- Added to Added to
- Income. Claims, penses. Deficit. Funds.
1905.. £6,123 £124 £19,069 £13,070
1906.. 15,610 669 23,572 5,631
1907.. 34,551 1,689 . 30,663 £2,199
1908.. 54.284 2,584 36,018 15,682
1909.. 77,723 2,821 43,488 31,414
1910 105,438 4,189 51,639 ; 49,610
1911.. 140,560 5,775 67,555 . 67,230
1912.. 187,912 6,677 74,998 106,237
19.13.. 230,388 8,529 86,776 1.34,783
1914.. 275,118 9,589 90.558 , 174,971
1915.. 313,303 15,760 94,016
1916.. 362,133 18,826 107,855 235,452
Of 264,247 policies issued in the 12 years
dining which the A.M.P. has taken this class
of business, 113,451. representing £3,998,927,
are void through death or lapse; and when
you run the eye down the column devoted
to claims, and find the total amounts to
only about- £77,000, you get some idea of
the deplorable, number of lapses. This in-
evitably makes this class of business expen-
sive : an almost exact one-third of all pre-
miums collected goes in exes., as against
about one-eighth in the Ordinary depart-
ment. The only sensible thing, therefore,
for any person to do, after he has got into
the insuring habit, is to transfer from the
Industrial to the Ordinary, and thereby
save very nearly 4s. in the £ of his pre-
miums.
* * * *
The Colonial Bank of Australasia
(Melbourne) :
Divs. on To Rc- Re-
Profits. All Shares. serves. serves
£'£ £ £
Sept., ’09.. 19,293 7 p.c.= .15.375 3,918 137,461
Mar., ’lO.. 23,417 7 „ ~15,375 8,042 145.503
Sept., ’lO.. 2.3,509 7 ~ „ 15,375 8,134 153,637-
Mar., ’ll.. 23.708 7 ~ ~15,375 8,333 161,970
Sept., ’ll.. 24,626 7 „ ~15,375 9,251 171 221
Mar., ’12.. 27,864 7 „ ..15,375 1.2,489 183.710
Sept., ’12.. 27.932 7 ~ ~15,375. 12,557 196.237
Mar., ’13.. 28,002 7 „ ..15,375 12,627 208,894
Premises written down, £SOOO. . 203,894
Sept., '13.. 28,110 7 p.c.= 15,375 12,735 216,629
Mar., ’14.. 28,231 7 „ ~15,375. 12,856 229,485
Premises written down, £SOOO. . 224.485
Sept., ’14.. 27,224 7 p.c.= 15,375 11,849 236,334
Mar., ’15.. 27,318 7 „ „ 15,375 11,943 248,277
Sept., ’15.. 25,802 7 „ ~15,375 10,427 258,704
Mar., ’16.. 26,146 ,7 „ ~15,375 10,771 269,475
Sept., ’16.. 21,383 7 „ ~'15,375 6,008 275,483
Mar., ’17.. 26,025 7 „ ~15,375 10,650 286,133
The Colonial has got back to the average of
the profits it made just prior to the war.
There are banks which ought to be and no
doubt are making a lot more than they did
then; but the Colonial isn’t as well placed
as some of them. Here are ’ the balance-
sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
1914. 1916. 1917.
Notes £20,163 £18,525 £18,235
Bills . . . . . . 392,979 294,174 156,394
Free deposits . ; 1,723,788 1,886,188 1,782,360
Deposits at Interest. . 2,302,538 2,531,048 2,534,386
. Assets. -
Liquid assets . . 2,078,787 1,870,197 2,013,941.
Advances . . . . 2,845,215 3,387,430 3,023,027
Premises, etc. .. 195,606 197,438 196,195
So this bank has got only about £60.000
more free money than it had at the begin-
ning of 1914. True, it is using all of it,
and has about £65,000 less liquid and semi-
liquid assets. But it is doubtful whether it
is making as much profit out of those liquid
assets; for. though £130,000 more is in pub-
lic- securities, there is nearly £400,000 less
in "Bills and remittances in transitu and in
London,” which indicates a serious falling-
away in a very profitable branch of Austra-
lian banking business. Meantime, of course,
exes, are crawling up. “Note, income and
land taxes” cost £3771 last half-year, as
against £1942 in the half ended March, 1914 ;
ahd they aTe going to cost a lot more yet.
But prophecies about the future of Aus-
tralian banks and banking profits are dan-
gerous dissipations. This, however, can
be said pretty confidently: it is only when
Australian banks have to meet exceptional
losses of principal that they can fail to show
at least respectable profits. In other words,
in the easy banking conditions that prevail
in Australia the institutions can so accommo-
date themselves to circumstances that they
can make fair profits even when general
trade conditions are bad. It isn’t impos-
sible, of course, that they will make losses
of principal during the next few years. That
will depend largely upon the price we can
get for our staple products. If there should
be a bad slump in them, almost anything
may happen, in view of our tremendous
: foreign debt. We pay interest with our
products; and if Australia had to send three
bales of wool to do the work that one does
now, which would leave two bales less for
ourselves, even the banks would begin to feel
very unwell. The unknown quantity is the
state of the markets after the war. It seems
inevitable that those of Europe will be dis-
turbed. To what extent that will hurt us
will depend largely upon whether we have
energy and sense enough to develop anew
market in Asia. The market is there all
right; blit so far we haven’t got it. Why,
ev.-n among the pretty considerable Austra-
lian population of the Malay States tin-
fields, last Christmas was celebrated with,
among other things, English hams. And
the damper was mostly constructed of
American flour, which makes something that
tastes like putty in the Australian mouth.
* * * *
Wunderlich, Ltd., manufacturers of
ceiling and roofing materials, etc. (the co.
began with a disclosed deficit of £1737,
representing preliminary expenses) :
r~ ——Dividends. N.ominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. 7 p.c. 'Ordinary. serves, serves.
1909. .£18,452 £1924 7f p.q.= £9,069 £7,459 £5,722
Premiums on new shares . . 2,646 8,368
1910.. 21,233 1924 9* p.c.= 10,111 9,198 17,566
1911.. 22,916 2800 9 „ „ 11,033 9,083 26,649
1912.. 30,405 2800 9* „ „ 11,646 15,959 42,608
1913.. 34,071 2800 10 ~ ~ 12,259 19,012 61,620
1914.. 32,877 3821 10 „ ~ 13,599 15,457 77,077
1915.. 23,635 6600 7* „ 10,694 7,341 84,418
1916.. 20,450 5600 7* „ „ 10,694 4,156 88,574
1917. . 22,810 5600 8 „ „ 1,1,407 6,803 94,377
This co. has a profit-sharing scheme, and-
that makes some of the figures in the table
differ from those in the published accounts.
For instance, in the year to the end of*
February, 1916, the accounts showed a profit
of £24,557 ; but £4107 was then transferred
for the benefit of the staff, reducing the
profit to £20,450. In the past year the
accounts show a profit of £24.786; but £1976
is similarly transferred. Of the profits thus
far dealt with £8570 is now capital repre-
sented by staff partners’ certificates. Just
how it -should be treated in such a table
as that which stands at the top of these
remarks admits of argument. In effect the
table as, presented shows, as nearly as pos-
sible, the position from the investing share-
holders’ point of view. And that seems
right, because the theory underlying all
profit-sharing schemes is that, by reason of
the greater interest which the employee will
take, the profit of the employer will at least
be as great in the long run as if he did not
give the employee anything at all. It will
be a fine thing if Wunderlichs and other
co-operators prove this to be so. And it
ought to be more than possible. In a busi-
ness of this size and character, for instance,
it should be easy for employees, by saving
time and material, to add not £1976. but
three times £1976, to the co.’s net earnings. ■
Any scheme which reduces; the waste of time ' 5
and material in Australia is certainly worth
three cheers. It is of national value and
worth more than all your “thrift weeks.”
Compared with the three years prior to
February. 1914. the past three years have
shown poor results. Nothing else could be
reasonably expected. The co. has been hit
two ways—perhaps three. The (perhaps)
third is through its name. “Wunderlich”
looked German ; but these Wunderlichs have
been British for three generations, and any-
thin!! less like Frightfulness than the artistic
idealists who formed this co. and still con-
trol it could not well be conceived. The
other two disabilities were (1) the slowing-
down of construction when the war started
and (2) the stoppage of shipments of
materials drawn from foreign parts and
such a rise in the price of other goods as to
put them out of bounds. The co.
will go on suffering for a good while yet
from the slowing-down in the construction
and modernisation of buildings. Apart from
the fact that Australia —-and Sydney in par-
ticular—had a borrowing orgy, which
always in Australia means a rush of city
and suburban buildings, we will have a big
foreign bill to pay presently ; and when we
have a big foreign bill to pay there is always
a movement back to the land, and the men
who go on the land are not —for a start, at
least—much good to Wunderlichs. Stili
Wunderlichs have imagination ; and in busi-
ness imagination is the quality that sets a
man making things to supply anew need
before it arrives. Sometimes he has to
create the need'; usually lie has to show
that it exists. Meanwhile note that the
present dividends don’t.absorb quite 75 p.c.
of the net unfits; and that is a handy
npirgin until the new business arrives.
Reserves are referred to in the table as
nominal. This paper's practice is not to
regard goodwill as an asset; but in this case
the goodwill could not for some years be
separated from other assets. Now. however,
it is known that goodwill stands against
£65,702 of the capital. Actually, therefore,
the co. lias tangible assets £28.675 in excess
of capital and liabilities, exclusive of the
£8570 of staff mirtners’ certificates. These
tangible assets include freeholds, factories,
stocks, book debts and £65.704 of “invest-
ments and deposits.” The capital is £40,000
in Ist 7 p.c. profs . £40.000 in 2nd 7 p.c.
prefs. and £142 501 in ordinaries. The
prefs., considering the interest, have a
sweet security; and that security is being
improved by every addition to the staff-
partners’ fund, if only because every such
addition adds to the value of the goodwill.
* * * *
Aarons’s Exchange Hotel (Sydney) :
June,’l2. June,’l6. Dec.,'l6.
Assets apart from goodwill,
lease and furniture ..£1416 £4959 £5312
Liabilities. . . . . . 993 2657 3010
Surplus assets .. £423 £2302 £2302
From June, 1912, onwards the profits and
dividends have been as follows: —•
June, 1912 .. £1405 12* p.c. =£765
Dec- 1912 .■ 1297 12* „ „ 765
June, 1913 .. 1400 12* „ 765
Dec., 1913 . . 1375 12* „ „ 765
June, 1914 . . 1113 12* „ „ 765
Dec., 1914 .. 762 10 „ 612
June, 1915 .. 747 10 ~ „ 612
Dec., 1915 . . 64 Nil
June, 1916 . . 943 10 p.c, = 612
Dec., 1916 .. 779 10 „ „ 612
So, in its last six months, the co. has made
exactly enough to provide its dividend and
pay for a few additions to furniture, etc.
That isn’t good enough, if the capital is to
be accumulated in cash by the time the lease
expires, which will be in about 14 years
from now.
*** * .
Broken Hill is still troubled. Mainly as
an outcome of I.W.W. activity in the
Miners’ Union there, another union was
formed some time ago; but the militants
refuse to regard its members as within the
pale, though they have been officially regis-
tered, and have just as much right to regard
the A.M.A. as the “scab” body. The em-
ployers naturally lean towards the new
union, the old one having shown that it is
prepared to disregard any Arbitration ruling
that it doesn’t like; and sooner or later
there is going to he trouble, and if the
Government isn’t watchful and firm the
outcome threatens to be very bad.
Seeing that it is preparing on its side for
a fight, the A.M.A. judges that the other
side is not asleep either; wherefore every
attempt made by the cos. to get labor in
from outside is resisted as part of a scheme
to strengthen their hands and weaken the
chances of a successful strike presently.
Just at present the B.H. South, in parti-
cular, is endeavoring to get men from out-
side. Its claim is that its lead mill, though
capable of handling' 7000 tons of ore per
week; is supplied with less than 5000 tons;
for the month ended April 7 the average
was only 4645 tons per week. The mine is
quite capable of supplying 7000 tons —it
could under pressure give 25 p.c. more—■
and that 2500 tons less are produced than
both mine and mill are capable of is said to
be wholly due to the shortage of men. It
is added that the Allies want lead badly,
while there are a couple of thousands of
men on the Sydneyside who have been nut
off railway work and want other jobs. The
A.M.A. contention is that the talk about
the Allies wanting lead is pretty and capti-
vating, but dishonest, inasmuch as it isn’t
concentrates the Allies want, but lead; and
the lead smelters can’t take any more con-
centrates than they are handling now; in
fact, the works at Port Pirie are said to
be simply choked up with supplies.
The whole question is one which calls for
careful inquiry and handling. If there is,
bona fide, work at Broken Hill for a large
proportion of the men who are being ds-
cliarged from railway construction jobs in
N. S. Wales, then they ought to be assisted
there; it should not be competent for any


■Hill The British Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd. Hill
T ramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
Manchester
Head Office for Australia: —
Queensland Building. 84, William Street, Melbourne.
llllllH lijiiillll Works; TraHord Perk, Manchester, England. IlDllliUlllllll|
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The I.O.A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Cap tal .. 96,165 6 6
Cross Pr( ml im Income 187,940
1. iabU.'hed li)10.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
J HE Walsliaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
righting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END" rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.’’
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
/ Dd. (minimum
l J *• (.minimum
' 1 16/-, 20 words)
( 7d. (minimum
) 11/8,20 words)
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4|d.
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
U. S. A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4 { j™ ninl T\
' (11/8,20 words)
Week-end service ivith the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. . Cable forms. Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific
77' Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ’
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonn e
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
l;.cal union to fend them off simply because
it wants to keep the local position favorable
'or a wholly illegal strike presently.
The Launceston Gas Cos. (Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. OfF. serves, serves.
Dec., 1909..£1520 4 p.c.=£1062 £2OO £258 £9,100
June, 1910.. 1318 4 „ „ 1062 300 9,056
Dee., 1910.. 1377 4 „ ~ 1050 200 127 9,183
June, 1911.. 1471 4 ~ ~ 1050 300 121 9,304
Dec., 1911.. 1504 4 „ ~ 1050 200 314 9,618
June, 1912.. 1496 4 ~ ~ 1050 300 146 9,764
Dec., 1912.. 1543 4 ~ „ 1050 400 93 9,857
June, 1913.. 1312 4 ~ ~ 1050 200 62 9,919
Dec., 1913.. 1 0 J 0 4 ~ „ 1050 450 140 10,059
Jane, 1914.. 1355 4 ~ „ 1050 200 135 10,194
Dec., 1914.. 1670 4 ~ ~ 1050 500 120 10,314
June, 1915.. 1378 4 „ „ 1050 250 78 10,392
Dec., 1915.. 1786 4 ~ ~ 1050 500 236 10,628
June, 1916.. 1547 4 „ „ 1050 250 247 10,875
Dec., 1916.. 1808 4 „ „ 1050 500 258 11,133
By keeping its nose to the grindstone and
putting on no frills this co. manages to pay
its 4 p.c. and have perhaps a little more over
than enough to counter-balance .wear and
tear. This shows how the position has
changed in 10 years :—■
Dec., ’O6. Dec., ’l6.
Liabilities £40,708 £33,429
Assets other than fixed assets . . 17,318 12,522
Excess liabilities . . . . £23,390 £20,907
So the co. has paid for its repairs and
replacements and what small additions there
have been, and in 10 years is £2453 to the
good. Gas-sales in the second half of 1900
were £5728; last half-year, £6937. But there
has been a far greater improvement in the
revenue from by-products (coke, tar, etc.)
from £730 to £1345, and in some terms it is
more than that. On the other side all exes,
are higher—except directors’ and auditors’
fees. They, uever large, are now an extremely
modest £42. The co. has the bad luck to
have to compete with a municipal supply of
very cheaply-produced electric current; and
that undertaking dispenses with frills, too,
which makes the competition all the more
serious.
*•***
rfl he Farmers and Dairymen’s Mit.k Cos.
(N.S.W.) :
Unex-
plained
Addi- Total
tions Addi-
Trading to Rc- tions to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves, serves.
1906.. £727 10 p.c. =£l42 £897 £1482 £11,291
1907.. 440 10 ~ „ 142 1277 1575 12,866
1908.. 596 10 ~ ~ 139 856 1313 14,179
1909.. 704 10 „ ~ 140 1500 2064 16,243
1910.. 1345 10 „ ~ 143 2000 3202 19,445
1911.. 1747 10 ~ ~ 145 2500 4102 23,547
1912.. 1782 10 ~ ~ 14.5 2500 4137 27,684
1913.. 2172 10 ~ ~ 145 2500 4527 32.211
1914.. 2318 10 ~ .. 146 2750 4922 37.133
1915 . . 381 Nil - 381 37,514
1916.. 1850 10 p.c. = 146 3500 5204 42,718
This is a remarkable little semi-co-operative
concern which regards the sale of the share-
holders’ milk at a fair price as its chief busi-
ness in life—not the making of dividends.
So, though profits have far exceeded the 10
p.c. dividend, the distribution hasn’t been
increased, the surplus being put into pro-
perty and plant to economically handle a far
greater turnover than was originally con-
templated. Actually on a share capital of
only £1462 (exclusive of £1827 forfeited)
this is how the business now stands:—
1900. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities .. . . £4lßl £10,620 £37,057 £37,939
Assets:—•
Freehold and plant 2131 25.986 63.784 65,890
Book debts .. 2353 5,934 10 715 14,079
Other assets .. 6493 1,536 3,362 4,125
A lot certainly depends on the valuation of
the freehold and plant; but apparently the
assets are kept written down for deprecia-
tion, though the statements might be much
more definite on the point.
Increased smelting charges having made
it impossible for lodide (N.S.W.) to profit-
ably handle its low-grade oxidised ores, the
present co. is to be wound up. But as
George Blakemore and A. E. Savage think
there are very good chances in the sulphide
zone, those shareholders who care for the
gamble are being invited to throw into a
No Liability co. enough capital to push a
winze down a hundred feet or so.
Y Water, Emmaville (N.S.W.), last half-
year could not work up to the sampling esti-
mate of lib. tin oxide, so it finished up £852
to the bad. That didn’t daunt the office in
Melbourne. By taking £2050 from the old
equalisation fund and tacking on the carry-
forward of £350. it swung the account into
credit. Another wave of the pen and £2025
was_ swished on to the depreciation page,
leaving a small credit for the current term.
All this cross-entry doesn’t, however, remove
the bank blister of £14,828 or pay the £1507
due to sundry creditors. The reallv liquid
asset against the £16,000 qf debt is the stock
of oxide on hand valued at £B6BB. Fuel
and other items swell liquid and semi-liquid
assets to £15,580, so that if a forced sale
was inevitable, which it isn't* the co.’s
banker wouldn’t feel that he must fall
back on the plant to get his own back.
The trouble is that the rise in tin from £lB5
to £220 didn’t happen soon enough to coun-
terbalance the costs of handling stiff ground
going only fib. tin oxide. The hard truth is
also out that the tin is so tine that it
slithers away with the black sand. Moline
and Wilson have been considering how to
catch the stuff before it reaches the dump,
and they seem as radiant over settling the
point as weary holders will be when they
again see the glimmer of a div. ahead. Of
course, tin at £220 makes that outlook a lot
more rosy.
Bourke’s Hill Tin, Emmaville (N.S.W.),
reported a yield of 6 tons black tin in 28
days, and No. 1 plant on Preston’s block is
said to be capable of continuing this good
work. In March this plant recovered tin
worth £BSO at a cost of £450, but this only
refers to working' costs. The shifting of
No. 2 plant when labor is available will eat
a bit.. Like most of the New England tin
cos. Bourke’s Hill made leeway last half-
year, the accounts showing a loss of £sl.
The only dredging co. at Emmaville that
paid dividends was the Great Britain, which
is lightly weighted with a capital of only
£SOOO and has two plants at work. If the
war lias caused metallic tin to rise to £224
per ton, or 2s. per lb., it has also caused a
shortage of hardy New Englanders to man
the dredges and sluicing plants.
* * * *
New England (N.S.W.) tin dredging and
sluicing cos. found it difficult to make dirt
worth Is. per yard pay exes, last year. The
Tingha division .put up a good struggle, for
it produced 400 tons 10 cwt. of tin oxide
worth £55,228 from 929,420 cub. yds. High
costs, including the expense of shifting sluic-
ing plants from one locality to another,
caused a general slackness with regard to
profits and dividends, and such an important
co. as Cope’s Creek Central, which has three
plants, worked at a loss.
*.* * #
In a short life Langi Logan South, next
door to the New Langi, Ararat (Vic.), has
swallowed calls £69,000, capital put to
credit at flotation £11,660, and other odd-
ments, the whole totalling over £BO,OOO.
What for? To win £7600 of gold which, of
course, had to be thrown back into the
gutter to keep the ' pumps jigging. George
Bryant, like all alluvial battlers, sticks to
his job of beating the water and doing a bit
of development work. Though shorter hours
and more pay have pacified the
worker, Bryant can’t get his mine manned.
So lie has to ladle out to his shareholders the
cold comfort that he is compelled to cut out
necessary work and stick to the spots where
a bit of gold can be grubbed out of the
gutter. This can’t go on for long, and
unless labor is more plentiful the tally of
calls will continue. With men available,
Bryant says he can earn profits, and as he
isn't a. boaster he has hard luck to be so
hung up.
* * * *
A week ago the Edna May crowd gloated
over the “official” story that there was to be
no reduction in the three-bob divs., that re-
serves were satisfactory, and that the output
could be maintained. Now they have joined
in the cry for economy because Mick Wil-
liams says that, not only has he lost several
days’ crushing through the break-down of
his pumps, but his grade has come down
because he has had to pull out more low-
grade dirt than usual. Also, when he had to
break through a dyke in the rise above 885 ft.
the water trouble at last showed itself. The
bulls are not feeling happy.
Leonora Gold Blocks (W.A.), having put
£26,500 to the credit of mine and plant
account and spent the cash, is now out to
make things hum. Asa start, the 10-head
mill is eating up 3000 tons of dump stuff.
A fortnight’s go at this went a shade better
than 4oz. to the ton, and the Melbourne
supporters crow that Tom Williams’s next
clean-up will be at least up to the estimated
50s. mark. Now that the stamps are falling
the big job ahead is to bustle on the 200 ft.
level east to join up with the level at the
bottom of the old incline-shaft stopes. Half
the way is gone, and as the blank between
the shoots has been passed, Williams will
soon know if he is to carry values for the
rest of the road. The 400 ft. level is
chasing at the heels of the 200 ft., and so it
can’t be long before reserves show up on a
decent scale, provided the gold remains in the
face. After that. Williams’s experience at
Marvel Loch ought to be a solid asset in
keeping down costs.
Melbourne has taken three more Westralian
options—the King of Creation near Laver-
ton. and two others at Kunanalling, in the
Coolgardie district. Returns running up to
nearly 4oz. are claimed from the latter two,
but neither has yet been tested at depth.
The locality has sent many a co. to an early
grave.
Many suggestions for the encouragement of
prospecting were discussed at the mining
conference just concluded at Kalgoorlie. One
was that £250,000 should be set aside annu-
ally ; another that 2$ p.c. of mining cos.’
profits should be compulsorily invested out-
side their present holdings. State aid for
prospectors similar to that in N. S. Wales
was advocated by another section of the con-
ference, while the liberalising of conditions
of taking up and holding mining areas was
claimed by others to be the solution. The
Minister promised to carry out some of the
suggestions made during the discussion and
to do his best to secure as big a grant as
possible to assist the industry. At a later
stage of the proceedings the Chamber of
Mines representative kicked against the pro-
posal to compel cos. to set aside portion of
their profits for prospecting. He pointed
out that, the directors of the principal mines
in the West had already spent hundreds of
thousands in search of new mines or in
developing their present holdings, and as
they were now being very heavily taxed it was
not the time to consider further impositions.
* * * *
“Oof Bird”: Market manipulation, for
which sharebrokers were mostly blamed by
Tom Duff and others, was feelingly dis-
cussed at the recent Ivalgoorlie mining con-
ference, and the Minister for Mines was
asked to make it illegal for any broker to
hold office as a director or legal manager of
any mining co. This, however, would not
overcome the difficulty, as the broker could
still have his dummy. The surest way to
purify the industry would be to increase
the status of the manager and have Boards
composed of men with mining knowledge
and some commercial experience. Bulling
or bearing is all right so long as it is
done honestly. But as a rule the director
who gets in first, and then gives his friends
the tip to operate, uses information to his
own advantage which he is paid by his co.
to use to its advantage. Once at a Board
meeting a telegram containing bad news
about a mine was handed in. Before the
meeting was over one of the directors became
doubled up with pain. He got up after a
bit and said he would go for some brandy.
But the chairman got to the door before him ;
turning the key in the lock he said, “No
you don’t! We will reach the Stock Ex-
change together.”
* * * *
The Bill to authorise the State purchase of
the Mount Molloy railway was re introduced
and finally passed by the Queensland Leg.
Council. This railway leaves the main line
42 miles from Cairns and runs to the once-
flourishing copper-mine at Rifle Creek, a dis-
tance of 20 miles. The price is £17.500, to
be paid in p.c. debentures with a currency
of 10 years, so it should not prove a bad
bargain for the State. Water in Rifle
Creek and Datches of basalt land will attract
the. cocky in time.
* * * *
Somebody sends this paper a prospectus
(undated) of the Heazlewood River Alluvial
Gold and Tin Mining Cos., of Mt. Magnet
(Tas.). The co. is to be in 75 shares of
£lO each, of which the vendors and pro-
moters take 25. Whether the float has
obtained Bigjohn’s sanction isn’t disclosed;
but he surely won’t stop it. Instead, he
might rush the other 50 shares and Win the
War that way. It ought to be easy:—
Samples of wash assayed at Mount Bischoff grave
27.5 metallic tin and 60oz. gold per ton. Twelve
prospecting shafts showed wash carrying gold to
?Sft., not bottomed. Fair average value may be
struck at 20s. per yard practically over 160 acres.
The only other suggestion The Bulletin
has to make that the Mint might be
shifted alongside the property so as to be
handy.
A recent issue of ’Frisco Chronicle
devotes half a page -to the career of W. J.
Loring, formerly Australian mining-manager,
and nine years partner in B. M. and Cos.
Boring’s first job, at the age of 12, was as
tool nipper on a small Californian mine at
50 cents a day ; at 25 he was a mine super-
intendent. In 1902 l.e went to Westralia to
take charge of the Sons of Gwalia at £IBOO
a year, and four years later he became B. M.
and Co.’s general manager of 36 gold, silver,
lead and zinc mines in Australia. This
carried a salary < f £9OOO, and he held on to
it until 1908, when he bought “Hail Colum-
bia” Hoover’s one-third interest in the firm
and shifted his quarters to London. Loring
is now hustling for the firm in his native
California, and has re-opened and is operat-
ing with “great success” a group of mines
in which, as a mere child, he got his introduc-
tion to his profession.
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it,
as the contents are original, instructive and com-
plete in every detail, being contributed by the
leading engineers of the world. The subscription is
only ten shillings (10s.) per year, so subscribe now,
or write to the Australian General Electric Co.,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, for a free sample
copy.— Advt.
* * #• *
A New Invention.- —One of the most interesting
and useful of all exhibits seen at the recent
Easter Show was an All-Steel Fence, designed and
made in Australia by the Rawson, Moody Mfg. Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney. This new fence, which is
built with powerful steel posts and wire, saves 80 per
cent, in labor, weighs only one-fifth the weight, and
will last a lifetime, as compared with the present-
day method of wooden fences, that decay so quickly.
All interested in fencing should see this fence, as it
will save money; it costs only 12s. 6d. to 15s. per
chain complete. A fence is on view at the above
address, or an illustrated catalogue will be sent on
request.— Advt.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferrie and have it
clear anyl crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
.particulars.— Advt. [3
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe has won the approval of all
the State Governments. This is demonstrated by
the many orders we have received from them.
Descriptive Catalogue free upon application. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., contractors to
all State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(head office). Factories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W. ;
Footscray, Vie. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A, — Advt.
* * * *
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt.
* * * *
There are “wild cat” cement sheet building
materials as in other things, but Asbestolite is the
only “tame tabby” which can be depended on for
your horse just as a good cat can catch a mouse.
Get Booklet “B.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite Co., 338
Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * ‘ * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Lenlastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.'
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— -Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * ,
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, S3 r dney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.


gfd
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 18 fB.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
sii Hie CofrecH
Qxpy&ssion
Gaoct ! SSjtfe,
PAULINE et CIE
Are Showing THE LATEST MODELS
FOR AUTUMN AND WINTER.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers, Sydney,
City 10167
and Centreway, Collins Street, Melbourne
Central 6466.
vVeojr j
fjossard
GORsSE/nS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
POLLEN
sSS
& ZOON S
Ml .
m a
SEAHORSE
M
SCHNAPPS
GUARANTEED BY BRITISH CONSUL AT ROTTERDAM.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 30, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
The Stricklands’ departure was a tear-
drenched ceremony. The little girls sobbed
alongside their delicate mother on the liner’s
deck, while the invalid sadly bowed to the
farewells of friendly faces' on the wharf.
Dady Edeline was carried on board at 8
o clock in the morning. At noon the plucky
lady smiled through her tears, while the
emotional feminines in the crowd below
enjoyed a good cry. It was the vision of all
tlicit threatens the helpless mother and her
pretty nurselings that melted the soft-
hearted Australian. When Mrs. George
Black and Mrs. Joe Cook, forgetting politics,
wept audibly i’n company, even Cabinet Mini-
sters put on an undertakery expression. But
their grief is not insupportable. Till the
popular kiddies puckered up their faces
the N. S. Wales Government was making a
decorous effort not to look too triumphant.
Our ex-Governor made a solemn farewell
to Sydney clad in the cocked hat and knee-
breeches in which he first entered th*e city.
The faithful Aide d’Apice went to Adelaide
with the party. It was remembered by the
crowd on the wharf that the younger Strick-
lands were little Australians leaving the only
homeland they know. Even eldest daughter
Mary was a mite of nine when she last saw
the gloomy old castle in Westmoreland. The
latest plan provides for the whole family dis-
embarking midway or thereabouts, and
spending a few months in a house in—-quite
a safe place.
Chief Justice Cullen took the oath of sub-
regal office at noon on Monday in Govern-
ment House. lie draws his legal pay and
half the State Governor’s screw besides
while Sir Gerald is getting through his six
months’ official leave. After that, there’ll
be the whole salary to go to the Lieut.-
Governor or whoever reigns at Macquarie-
street. There is some chance of Miss Hen-
derson. sister of the Commodore, staying
with the Cullens for a while. If so, there’ll
be a dominant note in the gentle hostess’s
vicinity
General Finn, Private Sec., and A.D.C.
Clifford go on with the Deputy Cocked Hat
at Government House.
As Lady Edeline Strickland wasn’t at>le
to go to a demonstration of farewell from the
National Council dames they went down
to Government House and ‘ handed their
parting words of goodwill done up in a
repousse leather case, with the wattle
blazoned on. its face.' The Tom Hughes lady.
Mrs. MacCallum, Miss Bose Scott and others
of that ilk supported the saddlery. The
Nat. Council, by the way, is considering
what can be done to make its thunder take
shape in legislation.
Anzac Day was all a-glitter with golden
sunshine, so there were no umbrellas in the
crowds that stamped the city to see the
khaki procession. The best bird’s-eye view
•>vas at the afternoon affair in the Show
ground. Excellency Helen in mourning garb
—a tribute to the dead of Gallipoli—was in
the official stand, where every shade in poli-
tics scrambled for a seat. The dais near
the edge of the show ring was ablaze with
color, like a tulip bed. Here were Archbishop
Wright in his best millinery-—gorgeous
touches of red and purple—Scotchbyterian
Prof. Mclntyre in his cap and gown, and
parson Carruthers, who leads the Wesleyans
in prayer at Conference—all decked in
ecclesiastic finery. Itabbi Cohen, under the
brim of a black hat like a soup plate, was
the cleric raven in this parterre of male
splendor. State Commandant George Lee
rode round the long khaki line early in the
event. Billjim can do it with some splendor
himself, for the flutter of silken banners
made rainbow glint of green and purple with
regal red and blue over the artillery lines.
Edmund Barton, a shadow of his former
portly person, had a seat in the official stand.
Like all free shows the Anzac Night con-
cert was rushed by about 3000 more people
than the Town Hall would hold. The com-
mittee, in handing out about 2500 tickets —
r/ratis —before the event, thought all would
be well. In the crush that made George-
street a live antbed at 7.30 p.m. many of
the ticketholders couldn’t even get inside the
municipal railing. A reliable witness, who
surged through the portal in the first rush,
claims that it was a matter of muscle, not
cardboard, and white-haired mothers of men
We tossed about like straws in a torrent,
h inally the doors were locked, and the con-
,lAsloa was s^lu t in. Recruiting speeches ate
46 minutes out of the heart of the concert.
Ireneh flags fluttered round the Union
•Jack at Rose Hall on Sunday morning.
About 40 men in tlie pale blue-grey that held
V erdun are staying at the convalescent home
in Darlmghurst. When the boat is ready
they return to New Caledonia to finish their
sick leave. Then back to the uproar in
h ranee. G.-G. Ferguson and his lady
motored in to have a word with the visitors.
Matron Fox was in charge, and Manly
\ .A.D. s (their day for washing up the
crockery) lined up while the Red Cross
clneftainess had a word with them. The
G.-G. spoke words of cheer to the French
in their own tongue, with the slow, careful
utterance (occasionally searching for a
word) in which a cautious Scot attacks a
loreign language. Mrs. Jim Ashton and
other Red Crossers were present at this
Sunday-at-Home.
Crossed over to Beyond last week, after
two years’ illness, Mrs. R. J. Sheridan, of
Aorth Sydney, sister of the late J. P. Garvan,
who founded one of our big insurance con-
cerns, and widow of a well-known figure in
rifle and cricket circles of years ago. Five
children survive, two daughters and three
sons; John, of the Equity Bar; Bob,
attached to the Supreme Court; and Denis,
of the Harbor Trust but now in khaki.
The Michael Meagher duo, of Bathurst
(he owns a Papal decoration, and so does
his father, John), departed this week to
have a look at the North, commonly called
the East, and sip the souchong and sakh of
our Allies up that way.
There’ll be a cosy cheque for the 2nd
D.A.C. and 22nd Howitzer Brigade Com-
forts Fund from an all-star show held in St.
James’s Hall on April 27. “The • Star
Spangled Banner” (Lilian Frost at the
piano) was followed by T. J. McMahon’s
vivacious account of Central Papua, where
domestic squabbles_ are occasionally settled
by an enraged native eating his motlier-in-
hiw, and Life in the Northern Territory.
Contralto Kate Rooney in velvet tones sang
“Softly Awakes.” Encores and a stack of
flowers. Nellie Leach, formerly a pupil of
the late Marchesi, warbled in tl'ie love scene
from “Bohhme” with tenor Martinelli,
Pianist Winifred Burston helped "violinist
Lionel Lawson make a brilliant attack on
Sarasate’s “Gipsy Dances,” Albert Goos-
sens (Miss Puech at the piano) stirred the
Pulses in the Toreador Song, and Rhoda
Kettlewell and pi’etty Dymphana Fox
danced till the curtain fell.
The big audience—“a lovely house to sing
to,” said Kate Rooney—included various pil-
grims from far-off Wahroouga. Dr. and Mrs.
Purser, the Ernest Blackwells, and 11. C.
Macfie and his dainty missus came from the
leafy heights. Mrs. Trefle brought daughter
Kathleen; sporting-man Tom Watson was
dragged from his easy chair by an enthusi-
astic wife and niece; E. Gard Trouton
backed up F. T. S. O’Donnell’s efforts to
get a waggon-load of blooms to the artists,
lion, concert manager, John Brownlow.
Hero is J. J. Cohen, now Speaker of the
State Assembly, and outgoing hon. sec. of
Hospital Saturday. The big man may be a
liaid nut to crack, but there’s soft kernel
inside. For many years he has done great
service as honorary organiser of the system
which rattles a collection-box in your face in
the first week in May—formerly on the
Saturday ; now on Friday.
On May 4 Hospital Friday girls will be
like red Indians on the trail of your utter-
most copper. And here is the brand-new
hon. secretary, A. L. Blythe, who has organ-
ised the 1917 campaign. The slim, alert ex-
Maorilander is a strenuous, whole-souled
patriot, who takes his seat in the Ameliora-
tion office at nine o’clock every morning,
and puts on his hat about 5 p.m. By way of
a short holiday from this honorary job he
started slogging at another—this hospital col-
lection fund. From May Moore's photo,
of Mr. Blythe you won’t judge wrongly
that he is all amiability until you
tread on his kilt. Then you’ll get proof,
perhaps, that he comes from fighting Camp-
bells and haughty Douglases, who gave a
clout when they might have turned the other
cheekbone. Baptised in the Scotchbyterian
faith, confirmed as a schoolboy at the famous
old Tunbridge School (Eng.) by the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, the victim suffers no
ill effects from thus mixing his theology.
Tunbridge, by the way, is one of the wealthy
old King Edward VI. Foundation Schools,
with an endowment that has accumulated to
£30,000 a year. It spends a good deal of
this affluence supporting commercial schools,
and giving exhibitions to prize Oxford and
Cambridge scholars. As lion, adjudicator for
the Amelioration Committee, A. L. Blythe
now deals personally with the grievances or
otherwise of between 200 and 300 men a day.
If Mr. Blythe could only get a whisky or
even a beer monopoly! The earliest Hospi-
tal Fund organisers in Sydney managed it
and made £45,000 out of an equal number of
gallons of rum. While the resultant build-
ing was going up in Macquarie-street Gover-
nor Macquarie gave a ball in one of the
wards to celebrate a Royal birthday. In
those far-back times—a hundred years ago it
was—patients cooked their own food in the
wards, one of the alleged kitchens being used
as a morgue.
To surgeon James Bowman, w T ho took
charge of the chaos in 1819, belongs the
credit of putting Sydney’s hospitals in the
way to be the splendid institutions they are
to-day. lie had to fight the “heads” of the
old mixture of gaol and camp, but he cleaned
up the . place and disciplined the outlaw
“nurses.” One hopes the Principal Surgeon’s
benign ghost may occasionally waft its way
through the fine modern building which
stands on the site of the old Rum Hospital.
Sydney’s great surgeon, Alex. MacCor-
miek goes to England shortly. Ilis wife is
on the other side, and he is anxious to per-
sonally conduct her safely home to this blest
spot—as safely as the murderous sea-ser-
pents may allow.
The War Chest fete in the grounds of
Tregoyd (the Cullens’ nest at Mosman)
attracted a thousand or more visitors. Money
talks to money. Every other rich woman
in Sydney .had some part or lot in the show,
and there -is a big cheque to follow the sales.
Lady Helen Ferguson, under millinery with
a green ostrich featho” twined round the
crown, opened the affair. Then Haskett
Smith, A.D.C., took off his gloves to get
into busines as lion, porter of her Ex.’s pur-
chases. ■ One cute idea near the entrance
gate was a query stall. Anybody who had
lost his bearings or hungered for information
as to where he could spend most money in
an easy way, had only to worry the damsel
who had a ground plan spread out before
her. .Miss Eadith Walker left her palace up
the river to sell bargains. Mrs. Ralston,
Mrs. O. Friend and the Old Gold and Silver
folk were amongst the saleswomen. The
produce stall was so deeply embedded in
the crowd that wanted to help the cause and
carry home eggs and bacon to their larder
that a despairing “Can’t get near it” went
up from the thrifty. The tea-tent was in a
leafy dell. A queue of a hundred or two
thirsty women wailed hopelessly outside,
then fled for the remote tram.
Handsome Billy Brennan, a Light Horse-
man, was killed on April 20, while fighting the
Unspeakable Turk, led by the more Unspeak-
able Ilun, somewhere in the desert. The tall
Cornstalk was on a station up Moree way
when he heard the bugles call. That was IS
months or more ago, and .he has been busy
ever since. There’s a sheaf of sympathy for
solicitor W. F. Brennan and his wife, who
have another six-foot son in training at Salis-
bury.
Singers at patriotic shows have their own
sorrows, though they don’t obtrude them.
Nine-tenths of the population is writing
verse set to music, which is bursting through
with goodwill to Billjim Anzac. One noted
singer, who has been taking an alleged rest
in her native land, has been pursued with
applications to voice “the only patriotic song
of real merit.” There are thousands of sam-
ples, and some of the writers go in person to
lay their ode at the feet of the songbird.
“Rolls of music,” she sighs, “come my way
by post or personally delivered. My -home is
invaded by minstrels with MS. tucked under
one arm. These good people do not realise
that if their music were worth while (usually
it isn’t) artists in other countries make part
of their income by introducing new songs.
They don’t do it to oblige the composer. It’s
a financial proposition. Clara Butt gets 20
guineas and a royalty on the sale of any
song she introduces.”
Graythwaite is on the look-out for a small
parcel of groceries from every visitor to its
fete on May 5. You can take a necklet of
loaf-sugar to swell the gift.
What a melodious veteran is the silver-
locked Randal Woodhouse ! These elder men
—remember the technique of Bispham?—
learnt long ago how to sing their words. The
latter art is frankly despised by the bawd-
ing modern male—unless he has been trained
in opera. Woodhouse was one of the artists
at the Anzac concert who sent his song to the
end of the Town Hall.
Concerning chooks, Miss Rouse and Miss
Sands, who specialise in those feathered
swells, Rhode Island Reds, are giving nearly
the whole of the proceeds of their farm to
the War Chest. They reserve only the cost
of the feed. The 30tll Battalion Comforts
Fund gets a windfall out of the same bene-
faction.
There is another sad, fond mother at
Bellevue Hill, Mrs. J. P. Garvan having
learned last week that her youngest boy.
Dick (E.W.), had been killed in France,
where he was a lieut. in the R.F.A. Dick, a
Grammar School boy like his brilliant father
before him, had been two years at Sydney
Uni. when the greater duty called. He left
only friends behind him, for he was one of
those sunny athletes that the Australian
heart so warms to. He played polo when he
could ; and with the boxing gloves he held
the inter-State Uni. championship in his
class. In the field he seems to have shown
the same qualities, and almost the last thing
the family heard of him was that he had
been mentioned in dispatches. A brother,
Gerald, is in the field, and two brothers-in-
law.
Sydney ’Varsity women had a meeting on
Anzac night in the Great Hall, which is
handsome but tomb-like by artificial light.
The recently-returned Mrs. Harper—she is
the wife of the St. Andrew’s College boss—
told the company what she'd seen in the way
of munition-making in England.
The Soldiers’ Club is beginning to hear
the distant howl of the wolf, for foodstuff is
going up, and it feeds the Kangaroo at a
nominal price. Dr. Mary Booth, lion, secre-
tary, will welcome your subscription, be it
fat or lean.
Measles puts the Infants’ Home at Asli-
field into a mild state of quarantine. Hence
the annual meeting in the Women’s Club
rooms the other afternoon. Excellency Helen
took the chair.
Tenor Philip Wilson’s little Eva (she
used to be Eva Champion) has just turned
the corner after a serious operation.
Do you remember sweet singer Eileen
Boyd—now a war-widow in England? She
is trilling for a crust in the London halls,
and getting as much butter as the Ration
Chief can spare. Here are a few lines she"
sends
I meant to have returned to Australia on a visit
this year; but the war prevents. Yet how I long
to see my homeland again! Here we have had a
terrible winter —freezing cold. Sydney pianist
Budden Morris is doing pretty well, and Rosina
Buckman is also in the swim. Fred Leslie and Ivy
Shilling and Lucille Bonstead are likewise busy. But
things in general are pretty bad for artists, as out
of London half the places of amusement are closed
down.
Yours affectionately,
VANDOKIAN.


Hardy Brothers
LTD
JEWELLERS
Useful Wedding Presents
Selections
sent to the
country on
approval if
desired.
Set of Six Plain Soupspoons, with new shaped handle,
in the best quality silver-plate, in case,
£1 18 0.
HARDY
Set of Six Pairs Dessert or Cake Knives and Forks, in the
best quality silver-plate, in case,
£2 10 0.
Five per
cent, dis-
count allowed
on all cash
transactions.
13 Hunter Street, SYDNEY-116-118 Queen Street, BRISBANE
IT’S EASY TO USE
and EASY TO CARRY
g
The
ENSICNETTE
Vest Pocket Camera
Daylight Loading for Roll Films.
Because of its small size, compact shape, and simplicity of manipulation,
the Ensignette is one of the most popular cameras of the day.
It is the smallest of all Vest-Pocket Cameras, and can he carried
comfortably in a man’s vest or hip pocket, or in the corner of a lady’s
hand-bag, and will last a lifetime, as the body is made of polished Rustless
Metal.
For quick work it is invaluable, as it opens into focus immediately—in one
movement —and the Lens is of good covering power, giving sharp, crisp
negatives, from which enlargements can be made if required. The Shutter
gives Time, Bulb and Instantaneous exposures.
No. 1 takes pictures 2% x in 27/6
No. 2 takes pictures 3x2 in 35/-
Complete iu Leather Carrying Case, with book of instructions.
Call and let us show how simple it is to use, or, if you live ouf of
town, send for illustrated Catalogue.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and Other Metal Workers can depend on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our Traveller will call on you.
lIP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St .> 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, 59 George St. North, Sydney.
LI
■y
Tv
<c.
K
54
Ufie STROUD
PIANOLA
Superior to all Players of other
make regardless of price.
The Stroud Pianola provides you with all the power of
musical expression, all the varied musical effects which the skilled
pianist’s talented lingers can attain.
But the Pianola does not stop at endowing you with a technique
that is equal to all the difficulties of the most tremendous musical
compositions ever written for the piano, it gives you also simple,
accurate guidance that enables you to employ your new-found
power with a subtle artistry that few amateur musicians ever
develop.
Even though you have never played any instrument, the
Metrostyle, a device exclusive with the Pianola, is a clear and easily-
followed path to perfect interpretation. It is the master’s prompt-
ings and teachings simplified so you may understand without
tedious study.
The beautiful tone shading—the power of varied emphasis
which gives the Pianola touch such a startling semblance to that of
human fingers, is due to another of the exclusive Pianola devices —
the Themodist.
Many other important features and improvements have given
the Pianola a superiority over every other instrument of the player
type, that is recognised and endorsed by practicallv every great
musician of the present generation.
Yet the Stroud is not an expensive instrument.
IT IS PLACED IN YOUR HOME
BY A CASH PAYMENT OF ONLY
£lO
Convenient, amounts paid monthly, in accordance with the Pianola
Special Purchase Plan, makes the Instrument yours.
YOUR PRESENT PIANO TAKEN in EXCHANGE for the PIANOLA.
To the PIANOLA COMPANY,—
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can make on my present piano ,
which is a
Bought about
Name
Address
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
384 GEORGE; STREET, SYDNEY.
(next to Harringtons).


"nmmnill
k
?a
FARMER’S
SYDNEY
fdg
A LL interested in the question of individual and
appropriate aids to Hairdressing should make a
point of writing to or calling at Farmer’s Hair-
dressing Department (3rd Floor). Experts are
always in attendance and will give demonstrations
of the different modes suitable to each individual
case. Only the best hair is used, and the workman-
ship is all that can be desired for fineness and finish.
Although doing all classes and modes of Postiche we
specially excel in our “Natural Parting,’’ so perfect is
this that it defies detection. Special attention is directed
to our Hair-dying and Suiting Branch, where
the methods adopted cannot be surpassed.
No matter how discolored or grey the hair
may be, after treatment the result is always
a perfect success, and there are no bad after-
effects. The haircanbe washed in the usual way ;
the treatment is non-injurious, it acts as a
tonic and does not stain the brushes or clothes.
As most of the work of this nature is
by appointment., it is.advisable to book
well ahead, thus avoiding disappointment.
Prices are quoted and advice is given
-t any time free of charge.
fd
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOSIT OF
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty,
interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all I! oiks, State Savings Ranks
and Money Order Rost Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. %hth March, I9h
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, April 30, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Some of the convalescents who arrived on
hospital ships just before Anzac Day were
British Tommies and English officers from
Aden who had been sent voyaging to Aus-
tralia for a tonic. They were included in the
groups of returned Australians who marched
in the big procession. Some Naice girls who
had brought flowers from their gardens and
handfuls of cigarettes and cigars from Dad’s
smoking-room, were well forward in the crowd
at a corner. But they were dismayed on
finding that the Englishmen were almost
foreign, you know. “They couldn’t under-
stand half we said, and kept on saying ‘Beg
pawhdon—sorry.’ We had to repeat every-
thing !”
Mrs. Lowther Clarke and the St. Paul’s
Tent committee had a spread for returned
Billjims on Anzac Day. It was a lunch party
and followed the sad and chilly service in the
Cathedral next door, where Sassiety knelt on
cold stones and felt for a brief hour the
seriousness of the times we live in. The State
Governor carefully put his high silk hat
under the seat of the front pew and Lady
Stanley looked devout in her best church
bonnet. Victor Hood and Conant seemed
like pillars of the church, and Major Stewart,
military secretary to the G.-G., was in line.
Archbishop Clarke preached in the dim
morning light and an Anzac bugler sounded
the Haunting Last Post.
There was a special demonstration in the
Town Hall for the Anzac Anniversary. The
returned Anzacs roosted high on the organ-
loft seats and when the audience thundered
they seemed emabarrassed and looked round
for cover. It was an occasion that demanded
a display of the Australian flag, but the
only one I saw was mixed up inconspicu-
ously with half a dozen others. Below the
heroes of the day, where at mere social recep-
tions there are banks and banks of flowers,
there were cheerless bare spaces. The usual
scheme of Town Hall decoration places the
Union Jack in the centre of the south bal-
cony. The sudden < itry of the U.iLA. into
the war evidently upset the decorator, and
the proud banner of England was hurried
into a corner to make room for the thought-
ful old Stars and Stripes. But the flag I
wanted to see was Australia’s.
Both the big ecclesiastical chiefs sent
apologies, so Gaud Mayor Hennessy intoned
the speech-in-chief in a collar as much like a
parson’s choker as possible. He drew a
terribly long face and read from notes
(looked at • under his spectacles) as if he
were delivering a sermon. Various speakers
orated about scenes in Gallipoli which they
had never seen, and the Anzacs above sat still
ard looked thoughtful.
The afternoon tour of wounded and
/mimed men on decorated carts was painful
and unwise. These unlucky warriors stopped
before places like the Stock Exchange to
make speeches and" take up collections. The
passers-by crowded and gaped as street
crowds will, until it seemed less like a
patriotic appeal than a waxworks show.
There was no dignity about it. The care of
the disabled Anzacs is not a matter for
casual charity; it is a national obligation to
be reverently discharged.
A great weaving machine mounted on a
lorry paraded the streets on Anzac Button
Friday. Disabled soldier-weavers worked it
while mates appealed to able-bodied citizens
to go and work the guns.
Melbourne University had a carnival on
Saturday which brought in good money for
the University Red Cross and Patriotic
Fund, and gave the students a chance to let
off steam. In -the morning students dressed
as girls did the Block in Collins-street,
and bailed up astonished citizens with
bunches of tickets. The people who bought
them had the privilege of listening to Chan-
cellor Madden’s opening speech in Wilson
Hall at three o’clock. This time the Chan-
cellor appeared as his dapper little self and
held his shiny silk hat as a shield or buckler
while he prattled good advice.
Wilson Hall was arranged like a circus,
with tan on the floor and gaudy bazaar
stalls. The cedar seraphs that spread their
wings across the ceiling looked quite sniffy
about it.
Some man suddenly exclaimed, “Oh, look
at the duck !” and made fer the produce stall.
The Sweet student girl in attendance blushed
furiously, but the enthusiastic stranger was
not referring to her. One ’Varsity sport
had been out shooting plump wildfowl, and
another had sent in an enticing basket of
fresh trout. Girls, with carrots and pump-
kins stencilled on their caps, sold vegetables
and the Frank Madden girls dressed as
gypsies and sold sweets. A fortune-teller
sat in the middle of the pond on a raft and
heard her clients one by one. The Meds.
had a lolly stall, and their assistants were
robed in black paper stencilled with white
skeletons. Some students roasted chestnuts
and others carted ice-cream. The biologists
sold fruit, flowers and vegetables, and had
the Stone Age history of a germ done in
sugar fondant.
Three girls—until Sutherland, Miss Farr
and Miss W ilson—did lightning pencil-por-
traits for a fee of one shilling per patient.
High tea kept the visitors on hand until the
evening shows and illuminations, and later
there was an open-air supper near the pond
under the electric bulbs.
The rich A. B. Kents, of Narre Warren,
have given their most precious possessions
to this war. Last week news came through
of the death of another son killed in action,
the third. One of the brave boys carried a
D.S.O. into the shadows.
Dr. Mary de Garis, of Melbourne, lately
went off from London to Salonika to help
mend our army, or any other army that
happens to be about. She is with the
Scottish Women’s Unit. Her pater and
mater have been wintering in Guernsey, but
braved the Kaiser’s U’s to cross over and
wave a farewell hanky at her.
Squatter James Bussell’s widow has suf-
fered heavily through the war. Two of Iter
four soldier sons have died on service. The
second boy succumbed to meningitis when
in camp here; and now Captain Jack has
fallen beside his guns. Elder son Philip,
owner of the family sheep acres, is a British
officer; the fourth is with the Anzacs.
Lieut. Kennedy Smith, M.L.A. for Dun-
das, who left long ago for service abroad
and was reported last year as being on hos-
pital duty in the British blackblocks, has
been sighted by a Melbourne cobber in the
war zone. He was described as looking-very
old and frazzled, and as though his share of
the war-burden has been full and plenty ; but
he was still going strong in the right direc-
tion.
The Bulletin used to make disrespectful
remarks on the “flame-colored whiskers” of
Samuel Wilson, K.C.M.G., who tried long
ago to acclimatise salmon in Victorian
waters. Those whiskers were emblems of
the pluck which snobbish old “Sir Salmon”
bequeathed to his offspring. There were
four Wilson boys. One of them fell in the
Boer War and another was badly wounded.
The other two —both British Army captains
—have been killed in the present war. The
youngest fell in France last month.
The Norton Grimwades’ flying son, Lieu-
tenant Fred, who fell in the Hun lines, has
turned up in a Switzerland internment camp
looking thin and ill ; but the worst of the
anxiety is over for his parents.
Adelaide’s observations :—-
Gallipoli Day is now an annual affair at Unley,
and on Saturday gorgeous weather backed up the
committee’s efforts to rake in money for Red Cross
and Trench Comforts funds. A procession, sports
and “continental” were items of the programme,
also an “empty saddle” appeal for recruits. On
the same day St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred Colleges
held their annual sports (for the twentieth time)
at the Oval. The Governor and Lady Galway and
many old boys back from France or Egypt were
spectators. The Cup for the winning team went to
Prince Alfred by a comfortable margin of 19 points,
and it was sent home in charge of the captain by
Lady Galway.
Surgeon-Capt. N. C. Shierlaw died from wounds
on April 11. He enlisted when war broke out, and
he finishes with a record of excellent work. It is
only a few weeks ago that news' came through that
he had the Military Cross.
This has been a wildly patriotic week —Anzac
Day, Win-the-War Day and the usual batch of patri-
otic fStes. One of the fetes, with the Artillery
Comforts Fund as its object, was at Herbert Phil-
lips’s house at Walkerville, where the garden is - all
that could be wanted for such an affair. Mrs. F.
W. Woodcock, whose major-husband is at the Front
with the artillery, shouldered a good deal of the
responsibility as secretary.
Luck in the way of weather • was with the soldiers
on Anzac Day. The Cheer-ups lunched about 800 of
them in the Hut, and 1500 or so on the flat below
(the Hut lunchers were returned men). At night
the C.-U.’s arranged a reunion for men who actually
landed on the Peninsula on April 25 two years ago.
At the lunch the Commandant gave some graphic
word pictures of his memories of Anzac and its
heroes. Various appeals, including those of the
“empty saddle,” brought in more recruits, and a
final effort for funds was made by a concert at the
Exhibition in the evening, with members of the
Gonsalez Opera Co. as the star attractions.
On Friday Lady Galway headed the women’s Win-
the-War procession and made one of her usual apt
speeches at its conclusion. Canvassing for Win-the-
War League members was keen, but where we are
to wear our badges if any more such leagues are
started, only the very portly know.
Kindly John Robertson, who died at Elderslie at
the end of the week, will be badly missed in the
south-east. The eldest son of the late Robertson of
Struan (also John), one of the south-east’s earliest
settlers, he was born at Struan in 55 afid became
manager of Elderslie in ’79, three years after his
father purchased it, and he lived there till he died.
Laurie, the lively young stepdaughter of
Alick Pearson, of Berwick, has promised to
marry Phil, son of machinery merchant
Edward Bevan.
William Pearson, once of Kilmany Park,
Gippsland, and now of London, is marrying
oft his handsome daughters quickly. Mimi
was wedded a few months ago to a Lieut.
Jackson, who travels with a title in his kit-
bag. Now the tall willowy Helen is
engaged to Captain Campbell Russell, a
submarine officer whose father looks in at
the Bank of Australasia in London. Heiress
Helen broke down in health after too much
lied Crossing here and has been, Jiaving a
holiday abroad with her mother.
Jeremy Peyton-Jones, who is related to
the racing Dick Caseys, of South Yarra,
lately married Margaret Grosvenor, a daugh-
ter of the Hon. Mrs. Norman Grosvenor, of
London. The Peyton-Jones family lived in
Melbourne before the war, and the newly-
weds met in Paris, where ..both were, doing
hospital work with the Anglo-French Red
Cross service. Mrs. Jeremy is a charming
girl, and has good looks after the style of
Lily Elsie.
Philip Russell, the squattocrat who is
owned by the swift four-legged Harriet
Graham, has just been elected to the V.R.C.
committee, in succession to R. G. Casey,
resigned and* abroad.
Bananalander Mrs. I’arkes gave a party
at the Oriental to welcome home Mrs. Cass,
wife of Colonel Cass. She has been in Eng-
land. The air was full of talk and tea and
buttered toast, and the Bowes Kelly dame
and a clutch of her daughters and the Fred
Knights, the McKinnons, De Jersey Gruts
and Mrs. Ledingham (just back from Maori-
land) said the right things to the lady. Mrs.
Sellheim led a military team.
Thanks to the Syme fete, the Foundlings’
Home is richer by f5OO-odd—all garnered
during one afternoon. Lieut. Miles O’Hara
—on a fortnight’s furlough from England—
heaped up quite a lot of coin with a merry-
go-round which he worked. Mrs. Geoffrey
Syme herself made nearly £lOO with her
dressed Australian dolls. Australian-made
baskets were sold, and, once you had a
basket, you wanted something to put in it.
Mrs. Mackay and Mrs. Thompson, helped by
Tackie Fenner, netted £lOO, and Sam Mackay
threw in his £lOO cheque as a help to his
wife’s stall. Foundling babies were on show
—but not for sale. Mrs. O’Hara was
organiser-in-chief and helped at a stall in the
tented bazaar street where the assistants
raged furiously together like the nations in
the oratorio.
George Armstrong was a tired, sad-looking
passenger on the Sydney express last week.
His young wife is still very ill, but he is
anxious to meet his mother who is due to
arrive early this month. There was some
talk of Melba grand-opera in America, but
the war silenced it.
The Glaciarium opened for the winter on
Saturday afternoon, and the snow-shovel
boys began their cheerful clatter once again
in the big building. There was a fine roll-up,
and dapper little manager Watson smiled
till the ice began to melt. There are glowing
radiators for the comfort of non-skaters, and
the cafS has broken out into a new decora-
tive scheme of warm pink cherry-blossom
suggestive of spring. The gilded college boys
came up in great numbers and splashed on
two tickets each, naming their particular
college girl for the second ticket and booking
up a locker for her.
The Hennessy dame arrived wrapped in furs
and surrounded by daughters. Mrs. Winter-
Irving came along with her daughter, and
the Mcßeans, Armytages, Goodissons and
Johnstons rolled along for the first slither.
Quiet old Rutherglen got very excited last
week when Hughes approached. The girls
were out with flowers, the streets were
flagged, the hall where he was to speak was
packed half an hour before schedule time,
and the mayor and all his tribe waited pom-
pously at the front gate of the village. When
news came through that the orator had been
delayed everybody settled down to a long
wait. The mayor and his party were still
afield when a very small man was quietly
ushered on to the hall platform by a police-
man. He sat there for fully quarter of an
hour before somebody realised who it was,
and went out to cooee for the mayor.
Hughes had entered by the back gate.
Dick Ramsden, recently found dead in a
London park, with a vein opened in his arm,
was a well-known Bananaland squatter in the
old days and a frequent Cup visitor to Mel-
bourne during the Brasseys’ term, when Mrs.
Freeman Thomas was at the zenith of her
popularity, and George Chirnside and his
sporting help-meet were running the Arthur
Blackwoods’ old house. On those festive
occasions “Dick” Ramsden, Gordon Lyon
and other sports kept the ball rolling. Later
on, he married, and settled down in an Eng-
lish hunting district.
■ Melba is almost here, and her students are
feverish with excitement. They have bought
new white dresses to wear on her arrival, and
every spare moment is spent in practising
scales. The white dresses are in direct
response to Melba’s request or perhaps order.
She believes that the soul of the woman
artist is affected by her clothes and that she
whoops like an angel in white. The Fitz-
clarence lady and accompanist Ruby Gray
are with her, and Coombe Cottage is being
scrubbed day and night.
Pianist St. Leger returned to Melbourne
with a big batch of sick men. lie personally
battled with pneumonia, and is having what
he calls "a home trip” to buck him up.
The young man is really an Englishman;
hut he has adopted this sunny country. His
shipmates were a batch of French convales-
cents. Melbourne has got quite accustomed
to the uniforms of delicate blue-grey and
the caps with cerise pipings. The motors
that bore them away were heaped with pale-
yellow wattle, and the effective color scheme
looked almost deliberate.
They’re all doing it. Ada Crossley lately
made her first appearance in a vaudeville
setting at the Grand Theatre, Birmingham,
and has booked up for a long engagement.
She is to appear in London later on.
Russian violinist Max Selinslcy gave two
recitals only in Melbourne this season.
Tuesday and Thursday were the evenings on
which the serious young artist performed.
The highly-decorative Jessie Masson was his
accomplice at the piano. She wore her blue-
black hair correctly coiffured, and inhabited
a dressmaker’s dream which was glued to
one bare shoulder by a buttonette of roses.
The shoulder-sleeves were like miniature
ballet skirts of tulle, and the rest of the dress
was silk-swathed and bound and tethered
by more buttonettes of roses. Jessie played
with all the superb self-satisfaction of the
expensively-dressed. She took the piano-
part of Schumann’s Sonata in D Minor and
shared the applause with the star. Flowers
were handed up by the cartload, and an em-
barrassed Selinsky gingerly took them in
hands already too much occupied with his
precious violin and bow. He looked
furiously at the usher, at his own
hands and at the loads of flowers. Then
he thought better of dropping the vege-
tables which had been thrust upon him and
carried them away as if he were putting out
the cat. Dr. Hamilton Russell was con-
spicuous at the second Concert; he was in
khaki, wearing the marks of the returned.
The music-loving medico has evidently had a
severe grilling. His once silver hair is now
snow-white, and his complexion has gone a
fine brick-red.
The Italians are coming back, after all,
to give two concerts on Monday and Tues-
day, May 14 and 15, and the women wor-
shippers of the three singing gods are pre-
paring flowers and food.
- Nellie Ivolle makes a beautifully unreal
swaggie in the Australian pantomime at
the Princess’s. She wears “moles” made of
brown velvet, I think, a dark shirt, an old
felt hat, a handkerchief round her neck, and
carries a stage swag on her shoulders. She
comes, singing robustly, from Kosciusko, and
tells the house all about it in a strong,
twangful contralto. The voice is quite mas-
culine, and reminds people of Rodda Perry,
the boy contralto who was “brought out”
by Newbury.
The orchestra at the Princess’s uses a lot
of hairpins and nose powder. A mild young
man, with a pale face, has the baton and
piano, a trombonist blows a gale, and a pale
brother beats three drums ; but all the other
musicians are women. One girl with a
Paderewski mop of fair hair plays a harpsi-
chord or harmonium. Another fetching
young person shows a deep V in the back
of her dress and saws at the fiddle. A.jnost'
comfortable lady settles plumply ifito a deep
chair and puffs her cheeks over an oboe.
The really saucy one is the little girl who
tootles on a cornet, while her hair hangs; in
a tricky Psyche-knot. A tall, languorous
lady droops over the big bass viol.
R. S-. Smythe celebrated his S4th birthday
at Balwyn a couple of weeks back. The
old showman is still fairly hearty, and there
is no noticeable impairment of his faculty
for uttering witty and graceful ambiguities.
He is not so active as he was, however, and
nowadays regards a journey to Melbourne
as foreign travel.
Graham Browne, matinee idol with Marie
Tempest, is likely to start a new craze among
our naicest young men-—the ones who still
pay strict attention to male fashions. Browne
parts his hair carefully from his brow right
over to where his collar buttons at the back
of his neck. A beautiful woman tried this
hairdressing trick in bygone days. Ruby
Steele Wallace, of the almost-forgotten
divorce case, -parted her thick fair hair for a
while from a fine ivory scalp-line at the
back ; but, then, Ruby had heaps of heavy
plaits to pile on her classic brow.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Y/S/Sj
■/ I
.-'S
Z\\\\\
i fit
♦ *
•** \ \
*♦♦ * *
i *
i t
» *
w^AA
W '
/ y y
•y,y \
V *
4
G>
0
g
▲
2
25
g
2
g
2
l:
g
* *
%
%
# #
-»
*v
!*•*.***,
g-7;;;V: : ::::
IMPERIAL"
? :::::::::
ii
fcuiii!
8 -:-
S- —
M
less
|
. # # . #
&
su-
♦ #
L
8
| :
V*
fy-"S
su***;
♦ ♦
ry
♦ ♦
P 3
t *
• «
• »
\ ♦
* ♦
.v.
8
!<:
«I
!-<••>•
s
»*
I *
« .* mm
Sj X / /l"
S' # S SWB+
S y ' ' • •
&


This is Hiram Ileavyset,
The saddest man I’ve ever
met.
He’s used that knife
’Most all his life
And hasn’t had a good shave
yet!
SAFETY FIRST
Dirt you enjoy a comfortable shave this, morning:, or. was it
an arduous scrape? Some men are content to scrape them-
selves with an ordinary Razor day after day, when for 7/6
they can get absolute
SHAVING SATISFACTION.
The Penn Safety, with 5 blades that shave, not only saves
time hut saves .your face, and with it you can he shaved in
a jiffy. The Razor is just right—triple silver-plated holder-
smooth guard (not a harrow), correct shaving angle—with
five Sheffield blades that are tempered exactly alike —made
to shave.
Price 7/6, Post Free.
iMouey hack without argument if you do not get shaving
satisfaction. Ail storekeepers or direct.
A. C. PENN, Inc.,
•420 George St.
SYDNEY.
o
I
ABSOLUTEIYIT
King
Qeorge IV
»»
weisior
The TOPNOTCH Scotch
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Chink”: The observations of who
tries to boost Gregory Mathews as a fleld-birdologist
on the strength of the fact that he and Gregory
wagged it in the bush together 20 years ago, do
not move me. I’ve met the same Mathews in recent
times, and reckoned him a good fellow personally
and largely a well-meaning fellow ornithologically.
Instead of studying Australia’s birds in rational
fashion his chief aim seemed to be to murder the
little beauties by the hundred in order to split
feathers in the matter of technical names. The
confusion resulting from this foolishness troubles me
a heap less than the loss of so many good Aus-
tralians f.or no practical benefit. Such “work” is
of no use to the country, and I don’t believe that
any man who had really cobbered up with the bush-
birds at any time would countenance their sacrifice
for such a purpose.
“8.D.”: Two kinds of algaroba were
introduced into Queensland over 40 years ago.
In his “Cultural Industries of Queensland,” pub-
lished in 1883, L. A. Bernays says that he had
handled and tasted the fruit of one of them, grown
at Bowen Park. These trees were grown from seed
which the British Colonial Office, on the advice of
Sir Joseph Hooker, got from America and distributed
for planting in the drier regions of South Africa and
Australia. Bernays produces some evidence which hints
that it might be well to go slow on the algaroba
business. The U.S. Department of Agriculture quoted
an instance of a fine horse killed by eating about a
pound of the pods. This was in Jamaica, and the
Department admitted that the seeds seemed to be
safely used in their native habitat—which is not
Australia. Baron Von Mueller’s theory was that
the pods were suitable as food only for animals that
chew the cud, and so get rid of. distending gases. The
seeds, by the way, arc particularly liable to be
attacked by insects; Bernays states that not more
than a fifth of those sent to Queensland from KeW
were good.
* * '* *
“MeNoi'tli”: I dunno whether Gregory
Mathews is a “cabinet naturalist” or not (vide
“Chink” and “L.P.” in recent Bullletins), but 1
do know some of the men he employed to chase
specimens and collect data for his new catalogue of
Australian birds. 11 obin Kemp, a collector with
many years of experience in West Africa, Maoriland
and elsewhere, was one of them. Cape York (N.Q.)
being of great ornithological importance on account
of the frequency of migratory birds thereabouts,
Mathews sent Kemp there a.s his most trusted col-
lector. Kemp stayed with me at my ranch at Cape
York for some months, and 1 had numerous oppor-
tunities of observing the painstaking care and atten-
tion to detail that characterised his work. Time and
labor were of no importance when Kemp was out to
verify anything. He was up to. all the dodges of the
trade, such as wearing clothes that harmonised with
the' adjacent scenery when observing particularly shy .
birds. The camp Binghis often clicked their teeth
in wonder when Robin came out of the scrub on to
the beach dressed in a green shirt, blue pants and a
hat garlanded with leaves. It will be mainly as a
result of Kemp’s endeavors that Mathews’s catalogue
will contain the fullest and most authoritative infor-
mation about North Australia’s birds o’ passage.
“H.Y.E.” : A recent aboriginality says the
breeding time of the black swan is December.
Writer, however, has found the nest along South
Coast (N.S.W.) lakes, with seven eggs, early in
June and, again, early in July. The black and other
wild ducks are also early breeders. I have found
well-fledged “flapper” black ducks in November on
chilly Monaro. Baked swan’s eggs were, by the way,
a favorite food of the aborigines, while roasted
cygnets came a good second. The impart,icular wild
man didn’t in the least mind the fishy flavor of the
eggs or the rankness of swan meat. Nothing came
amiss to his hardy palate—particularly the white-
man’s firewater, and in early South Coast days the
average sample would kill at 40 rods. A long-
forgotten VI.1). ran one of the pioneer shanties in
addition to his practice. He was one of the victims.
INVERSE RATIO.
TRAVELLER: “Have I got time to sag good-bye to my wife?”
TICKET-COLLECTOR: “Well, sir, depends. How long have you been married?”
EXPLANATIONS.
SECOND OFFICER (to Binghi quarter-master at the wheel) : “Where the are you
going with the ship. Four points off your course—you'll hare her ashore!"
BINGHI BILLY: “Ship on course, boss! Pick 'cm star —steer more better star! Must a
bin shoot in’. star, boss!”
“T.McL.”: Isn’t it time to think about
lining away with winkers? Plenty of object-lessons
about. Fire brigades and soldiers’ mokes, f’rinstance.
“E.S.S.” : If everybody’s, finished speaking
about vocal night-birds, I wish to’remark that I was
referring' only to singing birds. I like the cheery
chirp of Willie Wagtail, but I can’t admit him as a
songster. The magpie carols in the greying dawn,
but is strictly diurnal; if it raises a voice at night
it is only when it has been disturbed. There is no
singer among the cuckoos, though the call of the
Australian cuckoo is one of the sweetest bird-notes 1
know. The mountain-thrush sings softly and melodi-
ously after sundown. It sings to the daylight’s close,
as the magpie sings to the passing of night. Nothing
has been mentioned that can be added to the three 1
named—the reed-warbler, the bush lark and the
blue-wren.
“Spreader” : Apart from the cost of keep,
which is next to nothing, an analysis of the habits
and. qualities of the milch goat discloses facts with
which every family should become familiar. Two
prime factors are (1) the animals are practically
immune to all diseases that affect man, if we except
Malta fever, which so far hasn’t appeared in this
country, and (2) their milk is the most nourishing
food for infants and invalids known to science. It
contains on an average 84 per cent, of cream-fat as
against 4 per cent, in cow's milk. The latter also
runs second as a producer of curd and bone-forming
material. The flesh of the wether goat has more
nutrient qualities than that of the sheep; and once
the taste is acquired it becomes a very popular item
on the bill of fare. A nan shut off in a small
portion of the backyard will turn the kitchen peel-
ing-!. crusts, etc., into the richest and purest milk.
Through the absence of fresh blood the goats in
Australia have deteriorated to such an extent that
they can .be relied on to give only a very small
quantity of milk, but the quality remains unim-
paired. The recent importation of Swiss goats by
the N. S. Wales Government with the hope of increas-
ing the flow of juice by cross-breeding was a
commendable act. The success of *tlie experiment
rests on what means are taken to educate the public
to the many advantages to be gained by keeping a
nan. The risk from infection of tuberculosis through
milk fades away when nanny supplies the fluid, and
i his in itself should be enough to set the Public
Health departments thinking. The Swiss-Australian
cross shows signs of great promise, and the Taronga
Park (Sydney) Zoo authorities are moving in the
matter of importing a Nubian buck from India, as
the latter cross with the English goat is considered
better than the Swiss. The demonstration farm at
Nyngan has a limited supply of Australian nannies
stinted to pure Swiss billies for sale free on rail at
the modest Sinn of ss. each, and the supply can be
increased to meet a big demand.
(Continued, on page 21.)
THE ADMIRAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The recent deciphering of inscriptions on certain
ancient monuments gives interesting details about an
ancient navigator presumed to be Noah. Disclosures
of great interest are promised.”
When Noah was the Admiral and launched the
cruiser Ark,
The dolphins and the porpoises said “Iley !
Come, all you long leviathans and join the jolly
lark—-
The Old ’Un’s got his clipper under weigh.”
When Noah was the Admiral and things were looking
glum
He’d sing to all his devils blue “Belay!”
He’d pipe his crew around him and serve out a tot
o’ rum
And, when he’d got ’em livened up and gay,
There’s one would dance a hornpipe and there’s one
would start a jig,
And one would lift a chantey o’er the-sea,
And Noah, he would murmur: “She’s a craft that’s
tight and trig,
And just the sort to suit the likes o’ me.”
And when the sinners’ corpses floated peaceful by his
ship
He’d sermonise his little familee:
“In case you’ve not repented yet, just take a sailor’s
tip,
And never do your sailing on the sea!”
And once when Ham was stirring up rebellion in
the crew
He took that black disturber by the ear,
lie triced him to the mainmast and he gave him
forty-two
And branded him “a blanky mutineer.”
Ilis instincts they were healthy and wdien Mrs.
Japheth went
And loaded up her cabin bunk with twins
Said he: “The little kiddies for our blessing they
were lent;
The women—they were sent us for our sins!”
He was on the strict teetotal every third or second
day
And only drank to drive away the blues,
And, as he said, his only aim in putting grog away
Was to keep his jolly sailors off the booze.
He took a tender fancy to a curly crocodile
Who also was a messmate on the main;
And when the rains were over, he’d tranship him to
the Nile
And let him start a useful race again.
At last the floods had blotted out the wickedness of
man,
Except the chosen samples on the bark;
He muttered, sotter vochey, “What a blessing was
the plan
To save some little Vices in the Ark!”
He settled in a cottage on the slopes of Ararat,
But paid a frequent visit to the sea,
And spent his time a-fishing in an old an’ battered
hat
And pants that bellied badly at the knee;
And once, when fellow-fishers, in their quaint,
romantic wise,
Did stretch it till they stirred his sluggish blood,
He cheeked them with “Avast there with your damned
infernal lies!
Remember, I was fishing in the Flood!”
In wrath they rose and smote him in the midriff in
his prime
And sent him where departed sailors go,
And carved upon his monument in rude, insulting
rhyme:
“He went wdien he was piped for from below!”
Envoi.
M hen Noah was the Admiral the world was all at
sea,
And Man was gone, his laughter and his tears ;
But Missus Shorn and Missus llam had hopes of You
and Me
A down the shining vistas of the Years!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Get a Murdoch Sweater
It is “just the thing” for every occasion
—a garment you’ll appreciate because
of the warmth and comfort it gives.
Made in Australia by Murdoch’s.
Coat Sweaters.
With Polo Collar (as No. 1) or open V
Front (as No. 2), in Navy, Brown and
Greys.
Small Men’s and Men’s—
-11/6, 15/6, 17/6
O.S. Men’s 12/6, 16/6, 18/6
, With Fancy ' Contrast Borders.
Small Men’s and Men’s 17/6
O.S. Men’s 18/6
Sweaters.
With Button Shoulder or Roll Collar (as
No. 3), or Button Front (as No. 4), in
Greys, Brown, Navy, and White.
Small Men’s and Men’s . . 8/11, 11/6
O.S. Men’s 9/6, 12/6
Postage 6d. extra.
Now is the time to secure these cosy
garments. Call and let us fit you
to-day, or write Desk B.
urdoch’s
IN PARK STREET, LTD.,
“Where the Good Hate Are.”
SYDNEY.
Sf-
z
3
what the “Victory” Dispensing
Machine is doing for Hotelkeepers.
s
i
a a
i H
hhh
1,1
A direct saving of 25 to 50 per cent, in time,
convenience and material in the delivery
of ice-cold Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Soda
Water.
By the aid of the “Victory” Bar Arm these
are all brought to the bar, and any quantity
can be drawn from loz. upwards.
One - Barman can do absolutely the work of two
with the aid of the “Victory” Machine.
Bemember, it is the only Bar Arm on the
market with the Patent Water Flush
System, which positively ensures clean
flavored drinks.
This machine has been installed by many of
the leading hotels throughout the State
with pronounced success.
It is enough proof of the efficiency of the
“Victory” Bar Dispensing Arm when
testimonials such as the following are
voluntarily sent to our firm :
To The Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.,
219 George Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
The “Victory” Dispenser is running
with great success; in fact, I would not
be without it. It is a moneymaker for
any Hotelkeeper. It has cut my cordial'
bill from £2O a month to £4 a month.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ARTHUR BOLTON,
Commercial Hotel,
Lockhart, N.S.W.
We guarantee the success of this machine
by bacKing it with a 5 years’ guarantee.
Yon can get all particulars by sending us a postcard.
NELSON'S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Queensland Agents : J. W. Palmer Ltd., Cork Manufacturers and Importers,
Qrey Street, South Brisbane.
Adelaide: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
Perth: A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
New Zealand: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets, Wellington.
LETTERS FROM SOUTH POLE EXPLORERS
SIR ERNEST SH AC KEETON.
TELL THE VALUE OF
HE-ENZO
Registered Name for
Hean’s Essence
*
mm
m
IviviMfelS'!'
The Great Money-saving Remedy for
Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
SIB E. H. SHACKLEION, the famous
Antarctic Explorer, after returning from his
last trip South, wrote: —
“A parcel of HEAN’S ESSENCE went South
on the ship “Aurora” on my recent Antarctic
Expedition, and was used by members of the
Boss Sea party. I have been informed that
they found the remedy of value under the
exceedingly severe conditions experienced in
the Boss Sea.
“Yours truly, E. H. SHACKLEION.”
ii
MR. 11. ERNEST WILD.
MESSRS. JOYCE AND WIRT), two members
of Sir Ernest Shackleton’s Party, sent tlie fol-
lowing: jointly-signed letter: —
“You will be interested to know that we
used your celebrated HEAN’S ESSENCE
during our recent Antarctic Expedition. We
found it an admirable preparation. Its cold-
resisting properties are very pronounced; its
soothing and healing action is excellent, and
as a cough and cold remedy we think it
should be kept in every home.
“H. E. WILD,
“ERNEST E. JOYCE.”
MR. ERNEST E. JOYCE, WITH SLEDGE DOGS.
For Coughs, Colds, Croup, Catarrh
and other chest and throat troubles, HEENZO (registered name for HEAN’S ESSENCE) is recognised throughout
Australia and New Zealand as the most efficacious and economical preparation ever placed on the market.
OVER 4000 TESTIMONIALS FROM WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS, including Soldiers, Clergymen, Members of Parliament, Solicitors,
and others, have been received, stating that they had found HEENZO (HEAN’S ESSENCE) superior to anything else they had ever used,
of the healing, soothing, phlegm-loosening action of HEENZO (HEAN’S ESSENCE), let it be your own experience.
Singers, Public Speakers,
If you desire further proof
Costs 2/-, Saves 10/-
Each bottle of HEENZO (HEAN’S ESSENCE) when diluted with water and sweetened according to easy directions printed on the
label, at once produces a pint of superior-quality cough, cold and sore-throat mixture. A pint of ordinary remedies would cost at
least 12s. HEENZO (HEAN’S ESSENCE) costs only 2s. Moral: Use it, get quickest possible relief, and save half a sovereign
in your family Cough Mixture expenses.
II am UaaiiTA Paii nrU Klin tvi Allflc (medicated with HEAN’S ESSENCE) are made for the convenience of Travellers, Singers, Public Speakers
IIGCIII 9 116C114U UwUgll UICIIIIUIBIIO and others who do not require a large supply of cough mixture. Their price is 9d. and Is. per box.
All Good Chemists and Stores sell HEENZO (Hean’s Essence), or it may be obtained from G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
The Trademark name “HEENZO” has been adopted to protect users of HEAN’S ESSENCE against imitations. Therefore, if. when you ask for
HEAN’S ESSENCE, you are handed a packet bearing the name “HEENZO,” you will know you are getting the original and genuine money-saving
cough and cold remedy. It will, of course, be some little while before existing stocks of HEAN’S ESSENCE put up in the old cartons are sold out;
but as stocks are exhausted they will be replaced' by HEENZO, registered name for MEAN’S ESSENCE. r| h i an< l the
trademark has been adopted, in consequence of several attempts having been discovered to pass off inferior imitations of HEAN’S ESSENCE. As
an additional precaution, you are advised to look for my signature on every packet. NONE IS GENUINE WITHOUT IT.
gfd


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
FARMERS, Squatters Carriers
We Build 4, 8 % 10-ton Waggons;
Also ...
Spring Lorries, 1,2, 3, 4 8 5-ton.
Our Vehicles are well ironed and braced together,
and are warranted to be built of the best
Seasoned Materials.
i? 0 years’ practical experience in Road Vehicle
Manufacture. All the materials we use are of the
best (quality and thoroughly seasoned.
We should be pleased to furnish prices and refer
you to users of our Vehicles.
1 'I ■
m
OLDING’S COACHWORRS, 47 Parramatta Road, SYDNEY
“Cave-man”: “Salex” (B. 29/3/T7) men-
tions a cave on the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) upon the
walls of which are handprints ranging in size from
a baby’s up to a man’s. Half-way down “The Gulf,”
on the eastern fail of the N. S. Wales Dividing
Range, between Rylstone and Bylong, similar prints
may be seen. These are mostly the size of a
woman’s hand, perfect in s'hape and extending as
far as the wrist. Among the prints is one of a
child’s foot. In color they are reddish grey. Local
tradition has it that the oldest inhabitant tried to
chisel certain portions out, but that the imprint
remained the same through the sandstone as on the
surface.
OLD CLOTHES.
OLD IKE : “Look ’ere, mine bhoy, you vill
are to bay more attention to der pis-
ness. At my age I oughtn’t to haf to
carry der whole establishment on my
back.”
YOUNG IKE: “Aw, dad, I don’t see vere you
can complain—I think I rear my share
of it.”
“Wart”: Close to my verandah is a pepper-
mint tree in which a pair of white eyes and a pair of
fantail flycatchers have their nests; also a pear-tree
in which a brace of goldfinches cuddle; and a blue-
gum in which a pair of black-and-white magpies are
rearing a family. All of these occasionally entertain
me of a night with a tune, but none so often or so
melodiously as the magpies. The best singer in the
Tasmanian bush is the shrike-thrush, known locally
as “Whistling Dick.” His dress is a dove-grey,
shading to olive green on the back; a perfect protec-
tion when viewed against the background of blue-
gum. He can do a liquid gurgle with any nightingale.
Also, lie remarks that he’s “Pretty, pretty Dick,
pretty Dick,” getting his local name from this call.
He is one of the most easily-tamed of bush birds, and
will call regularly for a meal of crumbs, and walk
right in to protest if the dinner happens to be late.
He goes round the verandah hunting in the corners
for stray insects and into the passage to search
behind the pictures and curtains. The missus seems to
lie much more shy. Dick probably destroys as many
grubs and insects as any bird his size, and most
bush dwellers would as soon shoot a robin.
“Arthur S.”: “8.H.” is certainly wrong
when he says that eight horses are equal to one
good elephant for hauling. About 12 months ago,
when horses and motor tractors were scarce in
England, a firm in Sheffield employed an elephant
for dragging loads of iron and steel. She was a
youngster of 25, only halt-grown, but she could get
away with a load of eight or nine tons with ease.
This is the work of a four-horse team, and she
moved twice as quickly as horses could have done,
so that her value was doubled. A full-grown Jumbo
would do much more than that. Feed is a problem.
My friend could eat almost a sack of potatoes at a
meal.
“Hay”: Re aboriginal sign language and
the use of Masonic symbols. W. P. Auld was one
of Stuart’s party when the South-to-North trip was
made through Centralia, and on his return I heard
him relate many of their experiences. After leaving
Attack Creek (so called on account of an encounter
with the blacks) the party had no further trouble
till it was near the Indian Ocean, when a number of
abos. became aggressive and threw spears and
boomerangs. Stuart, not wishing to fire on them if
he could help it, waved green bushes in the fashion
of a signal, and to his surprise one of the blacks
returned some Masonic signs, which the explorer
answered, and there were no further hostile actions.
The Centralian abo., in the early days, when he
wished to express deep disgust or contempt, just
looked unutterable' things and spat. “No” was signi-
fied by jerking the head or hand in a downward
direction; “yes,” by an upward movement. I never
knew him to point to any object or in any direction
with his hand. He always used a well-projected pair
of lips. Strange, to say, when very angry his first
impulse was to hurl the epitaph “red” or “gory” at
his enemy. The great Australian adjective is no
misnomer, for Binghi called his brother “bychoo
bychoo” long ago.
“Gumleaf” : I’m puzzled to know why the
mosquitoes do not trouble the blacks. In the
Walgett district (N.S.W.) this year the pest has
been particularly ravenous, and it was simply im-
possible to do without a net. In some cases chained
dogs were killed and fowls were tortured to death,
while horses and cattle were forced to keep moving
about all night to free themselves. Yet Binghi was
able to lie down anywhere and remain unmolested.
“Wart”: “Leo Lear” (B. 15/3/T7) asks
if any Abo. has seen a spine-tail swift settle, and, if
so, when and where. I saw five land on the trunk of
a peppermint-gum at the mouth of the Pipes- River
(Tas.). They seemed to have taken shelter, like our-
selves, from a rain-shower. They did not perch as
other birds, but clung closely to the bark, and when
leaving they seemed to throw themselves off and
went like a shot out of a gun. Swifts in Tasmania
have a bad name among beekeepers. One or two
will fly about in front of a hive and catch every
bee that comes out. For this reason they are very
often shot and, dissected, the stomachs are found full
of half-digested honey manufacturers. About Launces-
. ton they seem to arrive always at the end of the
summer and are not usually seen for more than a
couple of days. I have never been able to find out
where they disappear to, whether to the north or to
the south. Like “Leo Lear” I have noticed that
tlic swifts are only visible immediately before bad
weather. Is it because in fine weather they fly so
high as to be invisible?
“V.” : Burial customs varied a good deal
among different tribes of NT. S. Wales aboriginals.
For one of the last ox the Monaro full-blooded blacks
a hole was dug about eight feet deep by three feet
wide, and into this the body, enclosed in sheets, of
bark, whicli contained also the dead man’s blaiikets
and tomahawk, was stood upright. The earth was
then thrown in and stamped down, and a sharp stake
was driven into the soil immediately over the, head
of the corpse. In some instances the body was
simply jambed into a nook in a cave, in others it
was placed on top of a network of vines and left
to rot; but on the coast burial most frequently took
place in the sandy soil about salt lakes and estuaries.
A little time : ago I found an aboriginal skull in
sandy soil at the point of debouchure of a creek 'into
a salt lake on -the South Coast. Further exploration
unearthed some finger-bones. The skull was -in
good preservation, but one front tooth (knocked out
to mark arrival at manhood) was missing from the
upper jaw, and the skull was fractured near the
right ear, its former owner having most probably
been killed in one of the frequent tribal fights.
“Jim Carraway” : Nature is a revengeful
old lad\ r who doesn’t like being disturbed. In the
Victorian irrigation areas stinlcwort now promises
to keep the settlers lying awake. Cutting the pest
only makes' it thrive; it has to be rooted out,
bagged and burnt before its funeral service can be
read. The trouble is traced back to the loads of
cracked stone brought from Bendigo to line the
irrigation channels and prevent erosion. But the
erosion would have been less of a calamity to the
irrigators than the introduction of the stinkwort pest.
* * * *
“Melos” : Simon, the Dago, with a dis-
colored eye and a badly-damaged bugle, sat on the
doorstep of the wrecked stek and oyst shop. “You
look as though you have been at the war,” I re-
marked. He shook his head sadly and answered:
“I no likea speeka da war. Lars night da big
Australia Billjim shap come inna da shop an’ he
say, ‘Hullo Daig! Who winna da war?’ I dink he
say, ‘Who beginna da war?’ I say, ‘German, of
course.’ Den he start —poncha me on da noce; he
belta da oyst at the wind’ an’ breaka da sbair and
ruba da butt’ on da wall, an’ breaka da crock. But
he’s not doo bad sliap. He pay da doc’ an’ da plates
an’ da wind’ an’ all da dings he break, an’ say he’s
verra sorra; it was a leedle meestake.”
A WANT OF FORETHOUGHT.
INDIGNANT MOTHER: “These photographs are horrible. Why, my little boy holes like a
monkey.”
LONG-SUFFERING PHOTOGRAPHER: “Madam, yon should have thought of that before you
had his photo, taken.”
“Te Babarantiko”: I would like to pour a
little cold water on these glowing descriptions of
what can be done cheaply in the food.line in Papua
and Northern Australia. I’ll lay long odds that
“McNorth,” while writing his enchanting bill of
SILVER LINING.
“Well, there’s one thing about this place,
mate — there’s no flies.”
fare, had one eye speculatively on the tins of roast
beef and stewed tripe, trying to decide which to kill
for dinner; and I suspect that Beatrice Grimshaw’s
pretty little picture was drawn after the usual excel-
lent dinner of Southern Australian products at the
Samarai Cosmopolitan Hotel. I have just returned
from extended wanderings in another group where
“everything- man requires can be grown,” but never
is grown, because the whites there, like the whites
at Papua, prefer to buy the potatoes, onions, fruit
and vegetables that steamers bring from Sydney,
instead of the insipid slush the tropics produce. One
of my later experiences (and I have had many) is
that, where game used to be plentiful, the noise and
presence of humanity while clearing and planting
drives the wild things into the inaccessible jungle,
where the white man cannot follow even if he has
no objection to himself serving as provender for the
local man-eaters. Persistent dynamiting scares
the fish to other grounds. I have had to go eight
miles to get a bagful of fish—not nearly enough for
a large labor force. Birds, too, become shy and are
difficult to get. Crocodiles gratefully collected our
tame ducks and the tame pigs. A fat-headed Head
Office had supplied the pigs, but would not allow
the time and labor to build croa-proof stockades.
Where wild pigs, wallabies and cassowaries had been
plentiful a few months before, I have had a native
hunter out all day and far into the night, and he
has returned with all the cartridges and without
seeing signs of game. But there were sweet potatoes
enough—hundreds of acres of them! Also all the
ills that follow a liberal sweet-potato diet.
“D.F.” : The now extinct Tasmanian Black
Brother didn’t leave many relics behind, but a
waddy dug up recently at Lagoon Bay, on Forestier
Peninsula, shows that he could do a good job some-
times. It’s a very solid little weapon, carved
out of a beautiful bit of she-oak, 21-1 inches
long, inches round the business end and tapering
very gradually and smoothly down to four inches
at the handle. It must be about 100 years since it
was made, but it’s as good as new and as sound as
a bell. The architect obviously picked out a young
tree of about the right size to carve his masterpiece
out of, but even so it must have been a big under-
taking with his tools.
* * » *
“M.G.” : In regard to the sheep-fly, what
about employing the great vulture of India for
cleaning up the. carrion which is the pest’s breeding-
place ? The vulture eats carrion only; he is not
like a small bird, hard to locate and shoot, if he
should become predatory; he is of considerable size
and eats gluttonously. I refer to the large vultures,
of course. The smaller varieties are not individually
big enough scavengers to be worth considering. It
is certain that fly-breeding is also done in manu-
factured goods, and blankets, flannel, etc., have to
be watched or they will be blown. I myself have
seen the full-grown maggots fall out of woollens,
and old Riverina housekeepers, as a result of experi-
ence, pepper blankets before putting them away, to
secure them from the curse. Flannel the same.
Shopkeepers in some places keep such goods wrapped
in calico. I remember hawkers doing likewise. Once
at Silverton, about 28 years ago, the summer being
fearfully hot, the flies died on window-sills, and the
larvae must liave hatched in their dead bodies. The
maggots grew to full size. I judge that the strong
fed on the weak. My landlady was most careful
about tucking calico sheets all over beds, and saw
to it that no blanket touched the floor.
THE FARM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie misty rains have passed ;
The sun is dazzling bright;
Where’er the eye is cast
Trees swim in clearest light,
As though in water glassed.
The farm looks washed and clean,
White stubble and red loam ;
Shy birds the furrows glean ;
Cows slowly straggle home,
Cropping at shoots of green.
Small clouds like flocks of sheep
Lie massed in highest air;
Below the live flocks keep
The apple-orchard bare,
Or in the thick shade sleep.
And playful shadows dance
Upon the furthest hill.
But what unearthly trance
Keeps all the house so 5ti11?....
A boy lies dead in France.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


box of State Express Cig'arettes
exemplifies tbe pride of tbe expert
in evolving' a Cig'arette worthy of the
hig'hest in the land.
Each new smoker, as the delig'hts of
this superb cig'arette are revealed to
him, becomes an immediate convert to
its pleasures.
5t$TE (hprbs
CIGARETTES
“That’s the reason.”
are “something' different.”
No* 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
lO for 6d
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Ws
«
VA
-=V7Krr
ilJl
a<
n'M
> V
St*
£
% <?y r^
*»
#
y
A*0&W
A
5
'jJ
\^j
a
n=
£
\4if
tiedC J SPimc&
in Me- QCeL CetHuhv*


Australia’s Favorite 2-stand Shearing' Plant —
The €ooB&i> Little Wonder.
A Remarkable Combination of High
Quality, Completeness and bow Price
It has successfully settled the C Hitching and Shearing
problem for more than 1000 woolgrowers in Australia,
LET IT DO THE SAME FOR YOU!
MOUNTED ON A LORRY, with Everything
Ready for INSTANT WORK, for only
£65 Portable, or
£55 Stationary.
An Ideal Plant for Crutcliing and Shearing from 500 to 5000 Sheep.
Comprises a High-grade 2-b.h.p. Tank-cooled Engine, fitted with
Magneto, Automatic Lubricators, etc.
It is ffree from vibration, and there is unlimited room for Shearers.
A boy can start and run it, with our book of instructions, without diffi-
cult}'. flhc Power Grinder includes Glue, Emery, and all extras. The
Handpieces are our latest model, which have made a name in Australia
for light running and LOW COST OF UPKEEP never before equalled.
The lorry includes wheel chocks, tarpaulin and tool-box, as shown.
Made in one quality only—THE HIGHEST.
Sold at one price only—THE LOWEST.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue, giving full particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY. 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
There are far more
Little Wonders in use
than all other Portable
Plants Combined.
■v :
iL
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Half-moon”: I noticed in a recent
Bulletin that a Victorian firm imported
sherry fungus from Spain and turned it
loose in the casks to give the grape-juice
the genuine flavor. Sets me thinking of the
concern of the Federal authorities that we
should have “pure spirit distilled by potstill
or similar process at a strength not exceed-
ing 45 overproof and matured in wood for
a period of two years.” Here’s how they
observe the conditions in a big rum factory
that I know of. The molasses fermentation,
which needs an experienced man, is looked
after by youths and is hurried by means of
(ires underneath the fermenting backs. The
distilling of the feints (result of first dis-
tillation) is done by very amateur distillers
under the supervision of Excise officers,
who very often know little or nothing about
stills or spirit. The spirit comes over at
strengths varying from 25 o.p. to 45 o.p.
and often pretty rank tack, too, calculated
to send a man to Hell at express speed. They
get a huge vat nearly full of such stuff, leave
it there for two years and call that storage
in wood. Experts reckon that the beneficial
effect on the spirit is practically nil. Storage
in casks would draw the teeth of the stagger
juice to some extent.
“N.Z.”: Here in Melbourne the milkman
suspected of infusing Yan-Yean into his ex-
tract is pursued by a special type of sleuth
maintained by the State; but the man re-
sponsible for the country’s butter can mix
as much water with the grease as he pleases,
and there is apparently no one to say him
nay. If there is anyone to say him nay, it
is said in a tone of voice that may not be
heard above the. din of the city, and the
small remark is lost in the rush of business.
One-third of the average pound of butter
delivered at some suburban back doors is
water, introduced by a handy little appliance
with which buttermen are well acquainted.
The popular idea that water and grease
won’t mix is at once a comfort and a deli-
cious jest to the humorous tradesman, who
blends them daily and deftly to his own
great advantage.
“Musketoon”: Stop the machinery for a
minute and listen to this pastoral. A flock
of store ewes were sold last month to a
Nygigan .(N.S.W.) buyer for 325. Gd. per
head. Without being lifted, they were re-
sold within a week to a farmer in Grenfell
district for 355. Gd. A fortnight later they
were passed on for 385., and the last recorded
sale was for 41s. per head, and still going*
strong, although they haven’t been shifted
from the place where they were first sold.
Within the next year or so everybody in the
district will have owned those sheep for a
few minutes and made a profit out of them.
Perhaps Joe Cook remembers a party
. which used to throw scorn at “Fisher’s
Flimsies,” for no better reason, of course,
than that the Labor Government introduced
the Commonwealth note circulation. But how
completely that circulation is now doing its
work and pouring scorn on Joe Cook and his
party was shown by the N.S.W. Railway
deposit after the Easter holidays. The pay-
in was £135,175, and only 30s. of it was gold.
“Trallwm”: Here’s another patriot win-
ning the war and establishing new industries.
He blew into our town the other day with an
“All-British” business card, intended to - be
hung on the wall of all patriotic homes to
show who were the town’s true Britishers
from whom the real patriot should buy his
Japanese underwear, his American boots
and his Norwegian fish. It cost ss. per
inch to be an All-Briton, and dozens of-
easily-scared shopkeepers and widowed
“ham-and-beefs” forked out their scanty
dollars lest they imperil their poor little
businesses through, being classed as only
part-Britons or even whole Germans. Yet
no parson raised his ready wail about this.
** * *
“Bathurst”: Here’s another for Webster’s
Post Office. Over a week ago I posted an
order, along with the cash, to a Sydney fruit
agency, and a couple of days later followed
it up with a. telegram. A*speedy reply came
back that the wire had got there 0.K., but
that the letter had not been sighted. Nosing
round, I found that the letter was still snug
inside the mail-box on our railway platform.
There were so many others there that a
visiting-card might have been edged in with
a paper-knife. The box is still choked at
the time of writing.
It has at last been frankly admitted that
the catch of fish off the Victorian coast is
nowadays being limited by a fishermen’s com-
bine. “The fisherman at Queenscliff,” for
instance, according to the Argus, “has found
that when the barraeouta are plentiful and
the full catch is sent to market, the total
monetary return is less than when the sup-
ply is moderate.” So the fishermen’s associ-
ation, instead of taking out 30 baskets when
the fish are running freely, now knocks oil :
at 20. Papers like the Argus call this sort
of thing private enterprise, and assure the -
public that it and the Bible are the secrets 1
of Britain’s greatness. 1
“O’Pliimerty” : Very little is known now |
of Collins, first Governor of Tasmania and
founder of Hobart, but one letter is worth
noting. His stores were provided by contrac-
tors in England, and he wrote complaining
that “the axes will not cut, the gimlets will
not bore, the gum-trees set the wretched
saws at defiance, the clothing is shoddy and
the thread is rotten.” Further, while a
number of guns of all sorts had been sup-
plied, the ammunition was all for one
calibre; also the boots sent him were made
on the assumption that all feet were of the
same dimension. Collins concluded by ex-
pressing the wish that the contractors might
be sent out to him under sentence. He says
it would give him “unspeakable pleasure to
set them to work with the wretched tools
they have provided.” There was some excuse
for Collins depending on imports, but he’d
turn in his grave if he knew -that even yet
Australia hasn’t learned to make its own
gimlet, and that much of it would still
rather get its suit-lengths from abroad than
buy them at home.
* * * *
Up country in S. Aus., especially on the
Peninsula, the mice plague is bad, too. A
store at Point Lome was lately attacked in
the night and the invaders devoured most
of the. stock, including boots, the wood of
lead-pencils and the labels on tinned pro-
visions. The banquet cost £3OO. That was
bad enough ; but when next night the boss
was awakened by the devils gnawing at his
fingernails preparatory to picking his bones,
lie reckoned it was time to push on.
A Victorian mallee-hen lately had two £lO
notes chewed up by mice; but he managed to
piece enough of the fragments together to
show the numbers, and the Federal Treasury
will issue two fresh tenners. It he hadn’t
been able to turn the trick, some bank man-
ager might have been driven grey by a
desperate customer trying to pay a handful
of dead mice into his current account.
All the Medes and Persians seem to be
working on the wharves now. According
to the waterside workers’ award, seven to
eight is the breakfast hour; but when a ship
in a hurry to get away had been swallowing
cargo all night at overtime rates and only
seven slings remained to be hoisted in, it
was reckoned (this being war-time) that the
workers might reasonably finish the job be-
fore adjourning. It was put that way to a
Melbourne gang lately; but. though they
were to get time and a half for the 20-
minute job, plus- the extra shilling for work-
ing during a meal hour, they turned it down.
With the river pilot aboard and the tug
alongside, the ship had to wait until eight
struck: then a fresh gang tackled the frag-
ment of a job and had to be paid 3s. Gu. a
man for it, as no lumper can be engaged for
less than two hours.
“Petifi”: To get to wind’ard of the Hun
submarine Uncle Sam proposes to build- a
fleet of wooden cargo-carriers. Each vessel
—cost about £6o,Q6Q—will be 2000 tons,
oil-engined, armed and manned. by a crew
of 35. Sam calculates -that during the first
year’s carpentering he can turn out three
such arks daily. Vessels of this make would
have these advantages : they would be small,
mastless and smokeless, and consequently of
much less visibility than the ordinary type
of large steel ship. Also, they would be
more easily manoeuvred if attacked, and
their comparatively shallow draught would
give them a good chance of passing over a
torpedo that would get the big fellow. Mari-
time history suggests some other possible
advantages. The old “wooden-wall,” even
when riddled like a colander “ twixt wind
and water,” took its own time to go to D.
Jones, and gave its crew at least a sporting-
chance to get away, which the modern steel
liner mostly doesn’t. Years back a wooden
ship, with a cargo of lumber, was dismasted
and abandoned at sea. A warship, sent for
the purpose, found the waterlogged derelict
and bombarded her with live shell at short
range. Rut the almost submerged hulk
refused to sink. Finally the lumber was
heaved overboard and the hull broken up, a
bit at a time, so to speak.
* ■» * *
“Tom E. Ruff”: The shortage of. shipping
is responsible for some record wheat stacks
in South Australia. Very little of last sea-
son’s record harvest of 40,000,000 bushels
has been shipped and in addition a big pro-
portion of - the previous crop is still in the
hands of the agents of the local Harvest
Board. There are big stacks right through
the country, but the . main centres are
Port Adelaide (between'two and three mil-
lion bags). Wallaroo (about one and a
half million bags) and Port Pirie
(approaching the million mark). Port Lin-
coln. the main port for the new wheat grow-
ing area on Eyre Peninsula, also has its
trifle. Weevils' have not proved such a
curse as might be expected. The carpets of
mice and the scarcity of iron for roofing are
the chief troubles of those concerned.
“Si Hie”: Since the days of Sam Slick
the horse-dealer has been hard to beat for
originality and resource. Lately in search
of a likely nag I happened on an ad. which
ran like this: —
For sale. I have decided to part with my well-
known grey mare Mollv Bnwn to approved buyer.
(Mrs.l Maria Heep, Godiva-street.
Reciting to myself “The Arab’s Farewell to
His Steed.” I hastened out and found that
Molly had a variation of housemaid’s knee
and spavined hock, and her teeth had long
since lost their birth certificate; further-
more. Maria was the wife of a famous horse-
knacker who-didn’t mind trying to vary the
business a little.
FRESH MEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tim hot hoofs bruise the powdered dust,
The slayer's eyes are keen and hard,
A royal life excites his lust,
The kindliest beast in all the yard.
The sharp lash flays it to the crush,
Its heaving body strains the bars,
Tense nostrils sniff the scented bush,
The wind-whipped rnulga and belars.
And all Creation’s love of life
Flashes from those fear-maddened eyes
That eon at once the whetted knife,.
The blinding glory of the skies.
And all Creation’s ruthless power
Lies heavy on the slayer's hand :
The careless force that leaves its dower
Where bleaching bones make fat the land.
A flash of steel, a muffled thud!
The stunned beast crashes to the sward,
While through the spurting jets of blood
The quick knife seeks the spinal cord.
All smeared with dust the glossy coat,
While life goes shuddering to its close,
And from a gash beneath the throat
The red blood flows, and flows, and flows.
The very posts with blood are dyed,
Coined with red the sheath-knives ply,
lied hands peel oft' the smoking hide
And swing the steaming carcase high.
Ilot darkness hems the station round,
The stockmen’s huts are all alight,
Come smells of cooking, and the sound:
“It's killing-day: fresh meat to-night.”
VICTORIA.
BANN DALY.


BRITISH
THOMSON
HOUSTON o>V°
RUGBY
ENGLAND
sonnr
3 HItWC
m
m
m
mi
'Hi
■T
VO TVUI
JUTS j
ji "if r
Qzvul
Vazvkl
M I '9
/azvN f
HT9 i/
i
it
A
.Ktfftr
/iJ
y* C
US'
fei 4
> 'V
A.
in
'C
s#*'
%
-i-.
"'-i
- •••«>,
!-;
V- ,•
c
SKI
3*
BXH. pajjgj cell 4est3~
BT 1-1 M« 7 Jn I » mn r cn • f Acf Arl After I volunteered in Rugby, England, for “Active Service Abroad,” of course I
•*• iVIdZ.Ud iL«eMISp 9 lb LcblCUi had to jjg thoroughly tested, doncherknow ! They passed me as being entirely fit,
strong and thoroughly sound; in fact, absolutely flawless! The B.T.H. Mazda Lamp Works have to date no “rejects” on record.
See all these jolly chaps behind me? They also are olive branches of the great and family tree of B.T.H. Mazda —happy crowd all
of. us, what? You’ve only got to look at us to appreciate why the “light that failed” is an unknown quantity in Mazda House.
I’ll take orders to light anything from a cottage to a continent with my gloom-killers. Night light becomes daylight where B.T.H.
Mazda Lamps are installed, and gloom is immediately transformed into sunshine.
If you wish to make my acquaintance, why 1 shall be delighted to see you on my day at home, which is any time, any day, any
week, in any month, at Mazda House, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Austrian-General Electric^
' Wentworth Ay Sydney, O? of Queen 6. Little Collins St Melbourne.
cßenresentind Ohorns on, O? Jdtd.
' OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver
and, Oliver, MacOuarie Street. Hobart.
• RUGBY •
ENGLAND
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (VV.A.L Ltd.. Hay Street
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Cnbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold half-round m ace let,
with Safetv Chain, plain or engraved, 20/- 30
£2, £2/10/-
16ct., £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-, £4.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, or Pearls and Turquoise,
25/-
A. Saunders’
Dct. Gold Sig-
net Ring,
CHARMING GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold
Patent Expanding' Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, £5/10/-.
Other styles, £3/10/-, £4, £5,
£6, £7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Snap Padlock Bangle,
£2/10/-.' Others, 25/-, 30/-, £2, £3, £3/10/-.
15et., £3, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, extra-heavy, richly en-
graved, 30/-. Isct., 50/-;
Plain, \vit'> Initials engraved,
same price.
A. Saunders’ Hunting Keyless
Liever, 30/-. Extra-quality Silver Cases
and Works, £2/-, £2/10/-, £3,
.*5/10/-, £4, £5, £6, £7/10/-.
r.olled Gold Cases, 10 years’ guarantee,
£2/15/-; 20 years’, £4/4/-; 25 years’,
£5/5/-, £6/6. Solid Gold, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Cluster King,
set pure double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-;
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Sovereign
Purse, 40/-; extra
heavy, 50/-. loot.,
£3/12/6. Gold-filled,
17/6. Silver, 7/6.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Cold
Cluster Drop
Earrings, sit pure
double-cut, Diamonds,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold Neck-
lace, set Diamonds
:iiid Pearls,
£B/10/-
\l! Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Pendant, set
Pearls and Amethyst,
22/6.
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Red
Stones, 30 /-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set two
Double-cut Dia-
monds and one
Pearl, Oval setting,
£2/15/-
3 Diamonds,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Half-hoop
Ring, set pure
Diamonds,
£3/10/-
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires,
£2/10/-”
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Souvenir Pen-
dant, 10/6; with
Enamel Shield, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George St'., Sydney (Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set
three Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A Saunders’
15ct. Gold (.'law
Ring, set Austra-
lian Redstone,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Two-bar
Brooch, se t Diamond and four Rubies,
25/-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Sleeve Links,
handsomely •; ngraved,
20/-. 15ct. Gold, 35/-
/
%
torn* on im»
a«xnun
A. Saunders’ Keyless Lever Watch,
15/-. Our Special Non-magnetic Lever,
20/-, 25/-, 30/-. Extra-quality Cases
and Works, £2, £2/10/-, £3. All
guaranteed.
Kill those Germs
Germs cause Sore and Husky Throats.
EVANS’ Pastilles .
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
EVANS, SONS, LBSCHER & WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 35 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over oO
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/G posted. Mekkie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dit.
Lama-rtine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. THurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Sd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, Jv'6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of,Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
X '/. posted. House Painting and Papering. 1/2.
B
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in .and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjov married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
ir-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.^
Pi!Oi\ Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks-’ Guide, 1/6. ■
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY', etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/-* posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
\m vteurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rasoal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, H-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy. 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, I/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master. 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers'* Handy-
book, i/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne. 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these p-ie'es Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be tooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your easli. ->> \oai.
ONLY A SMALL IUEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT I'KOM THIS ADVT.
Write for iny
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 post. Dr!
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England. 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, l/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology. 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant. 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete). 1/C posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


g
fdg
Instead of Metal-Polish
■ Bon Ami is a unique soap made
with a soft, crumbly white min-
eral of high polishing-power. It
is better than a metal-polish be-
cause it will dig the dirt out of
all the little corners and rub
away the tarnish.
The Bon Ami way is the bet-
ter way —it does not eat or
corrode the metal. Bon Ami
contains no acid.
Bon Ami also cleans windows,
mirrors, kitchenware, aluminum,
nickel, white paint.
Metal-polish cleans
by dissolving the
tarnish with acid.
Bon Ami cleans by
softly grinding off
the tarnish and pol-
ishing the metal
without scratching.
ill all tlie
f Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning
your (irocer’S.
Hi VOW
fd
It
Quenches Thirst
This is the famous sweetmeat that
the forces in Europe are clamoring for.
It gives long - lasting refreshment*
Millions of bars supplied to the
soldiers and sailors. Vigour, vim
and staying power in every bar.
Two Fine Flavours
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
3d. per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and other stores, or send
three penny stamps for a trial
packet to J. C. Gambles &
Coy, Commerce House,'
Melbourne.
w
Sealed Tight
Kept Right ,
"After
every meal"
76
ne
z
If any illustration ... app arms in
Bulletin, takes your fancy, write to ttie
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Oliice in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Diiti.cToits: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; lion. R. «J-
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns. M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian 'tnox. Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H..W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £848,525. . Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
PATENTED,
Make Your
Own Cans.
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is
1000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, prices and pictures' of machines
adapted to your needs. Send us samples
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make.
Correspondence in all Languages.
Address Dept. C-14.
The Max Ams Machine Company
Bridgeport, Connecticut, U.S.A.
W. E. HUGHES & GO., London, E.C., England, who also
specialise in Tin Plates and Black Plates, and solicit inquiries.
TheCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
AVON
A TYRES
More Miles for Your Money.
Three Special Values
From Stewart Dawson's Extensive
Stocks of Jewellery and ClocKs.
1-day Nickel Alarm Clock, 4in.
dial, height 6 A in., 5/6.
8-day, 15/6.
C 9737. —Finest-quality lsct. Gold Bangle,
'£s/5/-
Write for
our Latest
Catalogue,
Post Free.
5104. Fine
C 5379. —9ct.
Pearl-set “Mother” Brooch,
15ct, Gold, 70/-
9ct. Gold, 50/-
. Gold, with Imitation Pearls,
• 25/-
STEWART DAWSON’S,
The Treasure
House,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
&
l V
n»M f
■*? s
<i%%
E»Blw3
El 4b I
Ilf C
% mr
jvAV'-'c
Two Years i n the Antarctic
with “His Master’s Voice”
Marooned on the cheerless ice !
Shut in by howling blizzards —nothing to do but sit around, save at rare
intervals! But they had a “Gramophone”—and Gramophone records —
and so enjoyed music and vivid memories of the life they left behind them
SIB ERNEST SHACKLETON writes:—
i WELLINGTON, N.Z., Btli March, 1917.
Dear Sir, —
In answer to yours, the Gramophone was of the greatest use and
pleasure to everyone during the long winter months spent in the
Antarctic, cut off, as we were, from all social amenities, with only the
squawk of the penguin and the roar of the blizzard for diversity of
sound.
I think that no Expedition should go to the Antarctic without “His
Master’s Voice’’ Gramophone, for it certainly bridges the miles of
stormy ocean that lie between the Antarctic and civilisation.
Believe me, dear Sirs, yours truly,
(Sgd.) E. H. SHACKLETON.
>A awn U
“GRAMOPHONE’
Registered Trade Mark
No matter where you go “His Master’s Voice” would take
good cheer and good music to break the dull hours of
monotony.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET- —SYDNEY.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours —12,000 feet of film —8 to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to G.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 621 S and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
8
MS
WrTnWrt ,o '*, o ift
AW
w ,yen«*i
rrt** s
: o hoo
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
The Perfect
Emulsion
Prescribed by the Medical Profession.
Angier’s Emulsion is the most palatable, the most
cream-like, the most perfect of all Emulsions. Even the
most fastidious take it with pleasure, and it agrees
perfectly with delicate, sensitive stomachs. Those who
have found other Emulsions distasteful, should try
Angier’s, and note the difference; it always pleases.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession for twenty-five
years, it is a standard remedy of proved valine, equally
useful for adults or children.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD , 233, Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The anti-conscriptiouists having shown
their teeth, Hughes last week “pledged him-
self, the Government and the party not to
enforce conscription, either by statute or by
regulation, during the lifetime of the forth-
coming Parliament.” In other words: “We
must Win this War. If we have any prin-
ciples, we must be prepared to swallow them
to Win this War. We must even leave off
sending soldiers to the Front if that be
necessary in order to win this elec —I mean
this War.”
The leader of the I’hewsionists last week
pledged himself, his Government and his
party not to introduce conscription either
by regulation or by statute during the life
of the forthcoming Parliament. There is
therefore not one shred of reason why Con-
scriptionists, as Conscriptionists, should
vote for the Phewsion in preference to the
Labor party. One is not more definitely
pledged against Conscription than the other.
It remains then for the people to decide
between them on other grounds. The Phew-
sion, as W. G. Spence admits, is not
a party at all —it is two parties, hopelessly
divided against one another on almost all
points. It includes men like Josiah Thomas,
as uncompromising a Socialist as there is in
Australian politics, and other men like Bruce
Smith, Willie Kelly, a Fairbairn and a
Manifold. That isn’t a party : it is a mere
rabble without a policy. The Laborites are
at least a party with a policy. They pro-
mise Protection, for instance. The Phew-
sion doesn’t. How could it —how could
W. G. Spence and Manifold, Josiah Thomas
and Willie Kelly, De Largie and Bruce
Smith agree upon any policy?
WINNING THE WAR.
What a travesty on democracy our sys-
tem of government is'! In N. S. Wales the
other day there was an election of legisla-
tors, and the people chose the men they
would have to make laws for them for the
next three years. They declined to accept
the services of certain men; rightly or
wrongly they said these were not the sort
they wanted—they wanted Brown to make
laws for them, not Jones. Immediately that
this election by the people was over, eight
or 10 men, constituting the Cabinet, decided
to put Jones into the Council, where he could
veto practically all Brown’s proposals. And
more than that—whereas, no matter what
the people thought of Jones, they couldn’t
make him a legislator for more than three
years, this non-elective Cabinet put Brown
where he can, if he desires, block the pro-
posed legislation of the people’s representa-
tives for the rest of his life. By getting
elected he could be a legislator for three
years at most. Through not getting elected
lie is made a legislator maybe for 33 years.
The Proportional Representation League
(Vic.) is once more pushing itself under the
notice of the electors, now that the open
season for politicians is here again. The
league favors proportional representation
for both Houses. For the Senate this would
of course mean that the intermediate elector,
who can’t stand either the red-flag bigots
of one section or the dishonest schemers and
syndicates of the other, would get a
hearing in Parliament if he went the right
way about his business; and that would be
a good starf in the right direction, though
a complete system of proportional represen-
tation for the Reps, as well would look more
like the real democratic thing. The results
of the existing arrangements for preferential
voting in Victoria have thus far done little
for the in-between elector. For instance,
the only candidates at the recent Benambra
by-election were four vari-colored “Liberals.”
THE FILING SQUAD.
W. M. HUGHES (to Australian Sentiment):
“And now , sir, I have read you the
warrant; all that remains is for you to
say the word."
[MICK PAUL, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
The shifty Mr. Hughes foresees the possi-
bility of a great reverse to our land armies,
and if that happened he would have another
conscription referendum. Evidently Hughes
thinks that the promise of another referen-
dum in this far-off Commonwealth would
urge a broken British Army on to victory.
Such a practical statesman is Mr. Hughes!
[Edaiund Fisher, 369 Collins Street, Melbourne.]
The S. M. Herald has been shaking
her umbrella at Arthur Rae, N. S.
Wales Labor candidate for the Senate,
because he admits frankly that as a
theory of government he believes in
Republicanism. For that reason alone the
old lady says that Rae is not worthy of a
vote. The dear, dull, blundering old soul
forgets that she isn’t ' now barracking for
her old party, but for Josiah Thomas, De
Largie, Henderson, Buzacott, Bamford,
Sleath, Archibald, Lamond; Spence and vari-
ous Socialists and extremists. Will she
please tell us, what their opinions are on this
matter, and whether they are unworthy of a
vote, too?
Having overhauled Canberra and dis-
covered a little of the appalling waste that
has gone on there, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment might now turn Wilfred Blacket
on to the job of exposing the waste that is
still going on at Lithgow, where some men
are making small arms and others are seeing
that they don’t make too many. It shouldn’t
be difficult to discover what similar small
arms cost to make elsetvhere; and a com-
parison of that figure with what they cost
at Lithgow, with the most up-to-date
machinery, ought to make Australia gasp.
The Bulletin theory that a gale blew
the Maoriland Labor party inside out and
filled it with so much wind that 57 years
will be needed to bale it all away, looks
truer every week. The party has just been
running candidates for town councils on
“anti-conscription” tickets; and it is about
the weirdest lunacy this paper had heard of
til] Hughes started winning the war with
hunks of dictionary. Military service having
nothing to do with Bumble, these frantic
people were beaten at the polls, and deserved
to be. If Labor can produce Bumbles of
great capacity in the management of the
parish pump, good enough! If it cannot,
w r hat in the name of Whakamarina is the
good of producing a collection of windbags
to make a noise about a matter they have
nothing to do with while the citizens are left
to perish in the chasms on the public high-
ways ?
James Manifold, of Camperdown (Vic.),
who is mainly occupied just now in trying
to get back into his Corangamite seat in the
Reps., declared the other day that the intro-
duction of an effective protectionist tariff
was “impossible during the war.” Manifold’s
chief reason for this conclusion, already
stated in painfully discreet verbiage by other
members of his party, is this: —
A request has been received from the British Gov-
ernment —and a request at this time is more than a
demand—that the tariff should not be altered during
the war, as it would offend some of the Allies.
When the British Government lately decided
to prohibit the importation of certain
articles, it went on with the job, merely
expressing polite regrets at having to ban
the products of France with the rest. Is
Australia less self-governing than England?
As a matter of fact, what “some of the
Allies” object to is that Australia should
give preference to any of the Allies. But
they never have objected to Australia offer-
ing an equal protective tariff against them
all; and it is because the Jingo Imperialists
insist on preference to one of them that this
country, in their hands, is likely to be in
very serious trouble presently.
A “pool” in which the public will take no
more than an academic interest was spoken
of at the Vic. State School Teachers’ Con-
ference. It was called
a “house pool,” the
sensible idea being to
“pool” the rents of
the mansions . the
State erects for its
teachers. Many of
them are in the back-
blocks and cost more,
as a rule, the further
back they are. The
Government, w i t li
charming impartiality,
charges an all-round
5 per cent. —-interest
and sinking-fund—on
the outlay as rent,
the result being that
some dominies pay
£2O a year for a large,
brick suburban house,
built in the days of
low prices, while
others must part up
£3O a year for a four-roomed kennel in the
Mallee.
In Victoria the Fusion decided that, for
the sake of appearances, it would be a good
thing for a party allegedly anxious to Win
the War to be able to point to a few khaki
candidates, so the > National Federation
selected three returned soldiers, Sergeants
Fozard, Tracey and Copeland —and patri-
otically set them to contest three absolutely
hopeless seats. The three are up against
Mathews (Melbourne Ports), Dr. “Billy”
Maloney (Melbourne) and Frank Tudor
(Yarra) respectively.
[B. J. H. Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road, JSlwood, Vic.]
A scandalous story of “war profits” conies
from the softgoods trade. A firm was known
to have a large quantity of stuff which the
Defence Department would need, and every-
body wondered why nobody came along in
uniform to snap up the goods. At last some-
body in uniform did come along to inspect
the stuff; but he objected to the price, and
went away. Next day a mere civilian came
along and bought all those goods. Later on,
the Defence Department took them at just
double the price. Everybody in the rag-trade
knows the story. Every bagman’s dog barks
it. It is no use asking when the Defence
Department is going to inquire into such
things. It is the Defence Department which
does such things. Can you expect a fool to
honestly inquire into his own folly—or a
burglar into his own burglaries'?
Scaddan, M.L.A., late Labor Premier in
Westralia, has cut a deplorable figure ever
since the Conscription issue was raised.
Beginning with a fervent adulation of
Hughes when the little man spoke in Perth
on his return from England, Scaddan
wobbled to an expression of repugnance to
compulsion during his by-election campaign,
when the opinions of the electors of Brown
Hill-Ivanhoe were in doubt. Safely restored
to Parliament, unhappy Jack gradually
assumed an Imperialistic tinge. Then came
the Labor Congress. Brought right < up
against it, he made theatrical noises to the
effect thatjiis whole heart and life had been
devoted to the Cause. (“I never will desert
you, Mr. Micawber.”) He also took part
in the proceedings which resulted in the
firing out of all who declined to embrace
the faith of the Tudorites. But things began
to move upon the goldfields. A meeting in
Scaddan’s electorate, convened to pronounce
a sentence of political death upon the
Hughesites, was captured by the other
crowd. Then a great light burst upon
Scaddan, and he found that it would be
base desertion to leave those who had
remained faithful to Hughes. So another
metallic-looking substance lias been scratched
to reveal a lath with white-ants in it.
It wasn’t human to expect the hard-bor-
rowing Holman to remain in Australia while
the great British advance was on.
If there is one thing the Argus _ hates
more than a Labor politician it is too
honest a man. Lately it has been very
angry with Irvine, who persists in advocat-
ing conscription, when the Phewsion _ says
that it has “sunk” the conscription issue,
just as it has sunk the Tariff issue and
every other national question. The Argus
remarks
The “straight” man will always be admired and
trusted ; but, whether .we like it or not, there is
such a thing as expediency in politics.
That is to say, although patriotism may
demand conscription, which a few months
ago the Argus declared was “absolutely
essential to the preservation of our national
independence,” “expediency,” which ranks
above patriotism, demands that the anti-
Labor party should be returned to power,
even though in the process we have to
abandon the men .whom we alleged the other
day were dying in the trenches for lack of
reinforcements.
[B. J. H. Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road, Elwood, Vic.]
A Melbourne printing firm claims to have
captured the trade in postcards for Aus-
tralia, including photographic views of
local scenery. The capture is easy enough
under present conditions; the trouble will
be to keep the trade after the war. Views
of Australian beauty-spots and city build-
ings used to be sent to Germany and repro-
duced by the million for this market. The
tariff gave us no protection, and the Phew-
sion declares that it cannot or will not
give us any. If it isn’t Germany that ex-
ports cheap postcards to Australia in the
uncertain future it may be any other country
for all that Cook and Hughes will guarantee
to the contrary. So the picture postcard
printers are presumably going to nail their
hopes to the Labor mast.
For electioneering purposes Hughes per-
sists that the Labor party is supported by
the 1.W.W., although, of coul-se, he knows
that a fundamental principle of the I.W.W.
is that its members shall not support any
political party. One of their rules is that
members shall not even allow their names
to be placed on the electoral rolls, and many
of them have been prosecuted in conse-
quence. Furthermore, the I.W,W. is most
bitter in its assaults upon the Labor party,
the Socialists and others claiming to repre-
sent the workers. It argues that its best
friends are the Tories, as their actions are
most calculated to bring about the revolu-
tion for which the I.W.W. longs. So if
members of the I.W.W. could be induced to
go to the poll at all their votes would be
cast for Hughes and his principals.
[B. J. IT. Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road, Elwood, Vic.]
If it were a matter of taste the flavor of
the Phewsion would be gamey enough to win
15 wars.
THE VELVET PAW.
THE BORE: “By jove, you know, you must
think me frightfully rude for not keep-
ing my appointment yesterday .”
THE BORED: “Oh, weren't you there either?"
The “National” party lias plastered Mel-
bourne with posters: “The Labor party has
blown out its brains.” It means Hughes.
We know, of course, that the Liberals don’t
like Hughes, but still they needn’t have
announced beforehand that he was blown
out.
Phewsion could hardly expect that an
Iceberg would temper the wind to a born
sham.
THE SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vote for Cook and Hughes and. Win the War. —-
Election cry.
To waste one’s chances is a deadly crime,
And yet how many lives pass unfulfilled!
Young Brown at twenty had scarce reached his prime,
A keen, wild-hearted boy of sturdy build,
But he in far Gallipoli was killed.
Alas! His death can give no cause for pride;.
He might have voted at this crucial time
And saved his country —if he hadn't died.
Binks stayed at home and helped his country’s trade
By shipping silken goods from far Japan,
And curious things, by strange brown workmen made
In lands on which no strike had laid its ban ;
He did his bit as only merchants can,
And when his party leaders called for more
With bleeding heart his final debt he paid:
He gave his vote to Phews —and won the wait.
EMERALD, VIC.
VANCE PALMER.


The Artistic Player Piano
THE BEHNING
A Perfecft Fiano and a Perfedl Player.
:
H
i-'*" \
This is the most appropriate description we can give to
the beautiful BEHNING PLAYER PIANO, it is a
thoroughbred right throughout. There is not a scrap
of inferior material in it.
Everything that science has been able to devise to make
the playing artistic has been embodied in these Players.
Not only this, but the tone-quality of the Piano is
exquisite.
Call and hear these delightful instruments, they will
charm you with their wonderful musical powers.
We sell on Time Payment and will take your present
piano in exchange. Please write for particulars
if you cannot conveniently call at our showrooms.
Catalogues free.
W. H. PALING 8 CO. LTD.
558 George Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE. LISMORE.
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
gvrJ.Coltis Browne's
CWorodwc
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS anti
CONSUMPTION.
Checks EEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3.1-, o/-.
Made in England.
?
O
£
■gam*
JS^SSW
<e»
•e-eS
w
✓
a®|
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have bean
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE IO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
‘Phosferine
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h-s received such absolute proof of it*
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the pre uaturely agedNe »v Li r e and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:—
“l have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons’ Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.’
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D., C.M.,
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton |& Parsons LtA, of London, would appreciate your courtesy if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street;
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in
* refunded to you.
i
1
408
I
its place, and the 1 cost of postage
2 Necessaries
for Ever
Household :
Cornwell’s Extract of Malt
Cornwell’s Pure Malt Vinegar
lll IMIiIMBMM—
1» The best Tonic and Body-
builder for Children.
2. The most savory and purest
Malt Vinegar for Adults.
Obtainable All Grocers,
Stores.


The world moves. And in regard to
wiser conceptions of right and liberty the
war has made it move 100 years in three,
suggests that wise spirit, King George IV.
topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
Ir#J,
mo.
a
MOTOR
...CARS
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Missing: Friends.
Estate of Susannah Josephine Dennett,
Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that any person
able to give information regarding the
whereabouts of HENRY GEORGE DEN-
NETT, formerly of Tackandah, in the State
of Queensland, who was last heard of at
Birdsville in the said State in or about the
year 1900 should at once communicate with
the undersigned.
Dated this 26th day of April, 1917.
OWEN, ROLLISON & ABBOTT,
Scottish House,
King William Street,
Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Public Trustee, Adelaide.
Wanted.
WANTED TO HIRE.
VESSEL not less than 300 1.H.P., and
not exceeding 110 feet length, 9 feet
6 inches draught, for towing dumb hopper
barges (500 tons) between dredger! and
dumping ground in Westernport.
Must have good seagoing and manoeuvring
qualities. Preference given twin-screw
vessels. Crew, fuel and stores provided by
Department of the Navy. Required for 6
months, with option of further 3 months.
Offers, accompanied by draft of proposed
charter, stating Port where forward and
return delivery .taken, received by Director
of Naval Works, Wool Exchange. King
Street, Melbourne, up to noon 7th May,
1917.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Mick Simmons
SPOATING GLAN
Gives you
A S[?] [?]
[?]
This page has received a sheaf of letters
in explanation of accompanying formulae relative to
the calculation of totalisator dividends, from which
it transpires that there are various elaborate ways
of doing simple arithmetic. Why people should want
to wrestle with these complicated methods of going
the wrong way round, Heaven only knows. A
totalisator dividend consists of the amount available
on each investment after the total sum has been
divided into the necessary number of parts. Where
is there any necessity for getting tangled up into
multiplications and decimals to determine what this
is ? Having discovered how much money there was
to divide and how many were to join in the cut, the
writer found for 20 years that simple division
brought him within 2d. of actual truth every time,
and dividing by division is good enough for him
now. One cheerful correspondent with a formula
and three decimals demonstrates for the good of this
paper’s soul that the correct dividend on ,a single-
horse race in which there are 132 £1 tickets on the
winner out of a total of £756 is not (as stated by
“T.” (B. 26/4/’l7) £5 Is., but a little under
£2 11s. This seems to be just the chap to run
the machine—out at the ponies.
* * * *
If the yarn cabled from London about
Britain holding 4000 racehorses, each consuming' 141 b.
of oats per day, is dinkum, it is an even-money bet
that some cheap nags can be bought there just now,
by an}' Australian buyer who masters the problems
of how to get animals past the submarine and how
to feed them on the way out. These are not easy
problems, because the torpedo seems to be_ mighty
active and the likelihood of John Bull allowing food
for horses to be exported is fairly remote. Heaven
knows what is going to become of all these horses!
If they are turned out to grass there is bound to be
a yell, that the feed should be going into the interior
pf beef cattle. If they are kept on oats the circum-
stance would stir the community into fury. Whether
they ought to be appropriated for soup must in any
case become a burning question. Nothing would
make Australia realise the havoc caused by war so
much. as the news that animals capable of winning
the Newmarket were being sold for 4|d. a lb. That
would seem like the end of all things.
■» * * *
A crowd of ill-advised punters took 2
to 1 about Whitefield for the Glenhuntly Cup at
Caulfield last Saturday, and the big English horse
never gave them a hope of collecting. Aleconner
and the coming-on Eurobin finished a long way in
front of the favorite, and they were not good enough
to beat Semi-Blue at the weights. Semi-Blue is
evidently a gee of some class in handicap company.
* * * *
The handsome Eurobin, who won the
Doncaster last year before going amiss, has made
several appearances in public of. late and seems to
be in a fair way to recover his lost ' form. The
gelding must have been a good one when he captured
the Doncaster with Bst. 121 b. up, granting that he
was well placed in the crowd. A good position is
almost essential to victory in the Epsom or Don-
caster. Old sports reckon that nothing should be
heavily backed for a crowded mile handicap at
Randwick, if there are 20 triers, until the draw
for positions has shown how things are likely to go.
Some of the positivists say that “nothing after
number 10 has a hope.” The rule has exceptions,
but, anyhow, the marbles drawn by the first three
nags this year were numbered 8, 1 and 13 respec-
tively. And it was only the weight that stopped
Polvcrates, next to the rails.
* * * *
That good mare Carlita landed in Aus-
tralia a motherless foal, her dam having died on
the way over from Maoriland. Sold for 125 guineas
she afterwards annexed £lB,OOO, and her _ name
stands fourth on the list of Australian turf winners.
She won more than any other mare raced in the
Commonwealth. Now she goes to Linacre and the
paddock. It will be interesting to see what happens
to her family. Top-class racing ladies have not as
a rule been successful at the harem. Perhaps they
have been hurried there too quickly from the track
and ought to have been spelled for a year.
* * * *
A neddy to come into prominence down
in the Southern end of the Ma State lately is the
Poseidon —Court Beauty colt Royal Dude. Last
week he annexed three events, one at Albury and
two at Wagga. The latter successes included the
Wagga Cup. Royal Dude has always been, the pro-
perty of the O’Brien brothers, and prior to shifting
himself from Sydney was trained at Randwick by
Tuckermap, upon whom the mantle of the late Isaac
Earnshaw fell when Isaac took the trail to Sunset.
Royal Dude is a good stamp of colt. Having struck
form above the average he may be returned to Sydney
to interview an allegedly better class of animal than
he has recently been introduced to.
* * * *
Denman. Stakes and Tattersall’s Cup
double this year was one a lot of people failed to
discover, both going to outsiders. There were some
smart sprinters in the six furlongs event —La Steppe,
Snow Girl, Spurn, Dame Acre, Ardrossan, Quinn’s
Post among the number. Therefore Dave Whitton,
reckoned among the moderates, escaped notice and
Israel’s clamorous invitations to invest at 15-20 to 1
fell on ears that were deaf. La Steppe looked a
sure thing till Dame Acre and Ardrossan came into
the picture; but while these two, who started at
10’s, were arguing the point, Dave Whitton swooped
down, and MacSliortodds whooped him past the
terminus.
* * * *
Jimmy McMahon’s Karanaud King won
City Tattersall’s Cup at Randwick last year and
made the local punter feel very sorry for "himself.
James persuaded his bony nag to do the same thing
again last week. Meantime Karanaud King had
been confirming the reputation he had earned pre-
viously. Every time the "stable backed him it went
down heavily. Wherefore on Thursday Ike was
willing to oblige with 14 and 15 to T in a 16-horse
race, the public demanding Rushford as a rule,
with occasional helpings of Black Nut, Ulvg’s Isle
and Tofua. Nothing had a chance with the winner
who ran to the front at seven furlongs and stayed
there until it was too late to go back. Yet there
was nothing very surprising in all this. In the
Sydney. Cup Karanaud King did as well as anything
else for a mile and a half. .But he is no horse for
punters.
A stable has luck sometimes and some-
times the other thing. Rosehill trainer Booth
missed getting the real article at City Tattersall’s
meeting last week by providing, instead of the
winning- double, the horses that registered the two
seconds—Dame Acre and Rushford. Dodging a
double as narrowly as this is even more calamitous
than getting a leg in and having the other chopped
off - V
It is not often racegoers see a horse alive
one stride and cold meat the next, but they saw
it at Randwick on Saturday. Rongopai rose at the
hurdle opposite the Leger stand, hit the timber with
his knees and pitching straight forward on to his
head was dead before the rest of his body struck
the ground. He fell like a bag of lead, without
a tremor. Rongopai was bred in Maoriland. He
won a race or two about Sydney, but latterly seemed
to have grown disgusted with the cargo deposited on
him by handicappers.
In every race other than the Hurdles run
at City Tattersall’s meeting at Randwick the placed
horses were, with one exception, sired by _an im-
ported animal. The exception was itself an importa-
tion.
* * * *
A smart youngster was seen out at Moore-
field (N.S.W.) on Saturday. Lady Swynford rushed
past everything else in the straight in the two-year-
old event and secured the big end of the stake by
half a length from Cool Lass. Lady Swynford won
a race at Menangle recently, and is well out of the
ruck. She was favorite with “Leslie English’s” dis-
appointing filly Nancy Sykes, but Nancy finished
a long way back. Her Ladyship was bred by W. and
F. A. Moses and is the first get of the imported
stallion Cardinal 'Beaufort to win races; in fact, she
is one. of the first of the sire’s progeny to compete.
The dam, Desmine, was also imported. This filly is
likely to be heard from again. 4
* * i*; *
Backing Dame Acre in Mooi'ofiold Flying
Handicap on Saturday looked life picking up money,
considering the fashion in which she finished second
to DavA?'Whitton two days earlier in the .Denman
Stakes at i.Jßmdwick. Booth, who has
had the n}g?e->n lefife, thought so. and the books
were similarly ’Obsessed. Anyone who secured even
money shook hands with himself, and late investors
had to lay 7 to 4. Dame Acre didn’t perform in
a style to make her backers esOape a thrill. She
was in front three furlongs from the finish, and,
although she was well clear when entering the
straight, Ivrithia and Asia Minor had got to within
threequarters of a length of her at the end of the six
furlongs. This didn’t say much for Dame Acre’s
form. Krithia’s only win has been a maiden handi-
cap, and Asia Minor is not even so well endorsed.
Booth’s lease of Dame Acre expires next month.
“Stringer” : Why doesn’t the A. J.C. order
its stewards to take the public into their confidence ?
When a hcrrse or jockey is disqualified on a metro-
politan course the bare fact is announced, and the
people who keep the game going are left to draw
their own conclusions about the reason. Recently, in
South Aus., the stewards resolved to let the public
into the secret, and the step is much appreciated.
If an owner is guilty of a wrongful act or a jockey
has proved too strong in the elbows, the fact should
be made known. As it is now, a-disqualified person
may spread any old yarn he thinks best and gain
a lot of sympathy, whereas if the real innards came
into the limelight the happening might act as a
deterrent on individuals who only allow their nags
to be slipped when the price in the betting ring
happens to be to their liking.
“Yarrum” : Jack Rice recently humped a
tidy weight, and did well with it; but what price
Gleeson’s Planet, that with 16st. 101 b. up at Wollar,
near Mudgee (N.S.W.), arrived an easy winner!
There were certainly no imported nags behind him,
but they were all “racehorses.”
What the Melbourne place fielders call
“the odds” get a kick from the Age. But the
Melbourne punter ought to see what these people do
at Randwick. It is plain murder, as this page has
remarked on many previous occasions. Take 6 to 4
on a couple of horses, 6 to 4 against two or three
more, even money a few and the rest 2 to I—-that's
about the general programme. The thing is a
reflection on the A.J.0., which licenses this public
fleecing of its patrons. Either the game should be
stopped altogether or some reasonable oversight exer-
cised. The writer has a notion that the best use to
which the totalisator could be put under the existing
system would- be to run it as a 1,2, 3 concern
with a flat division of investments. The results
would surprise the club, the public and Ike.
The Federal Government amusement tax
picked up £2579 at the A.J.O. Autumn four-days’
meeting at Randwick.
* , * * *
Dead, IT. C. Dangar, for 47 years a com-
mitteeman of the A.J.O. (he resigned in February)
and owner of a name familiar in the history of the
Australian turf. He bred many good horses and
raced a few, of which one was Gibraltar, winner of
the A.J.C. Derby and V.R.C. St. Leger, and the
best of all, Positano, imported for stud purposes,
but put into training to see what he was like. The
old man was 87, a native of N. S, Wales, a fine whip
in his day, and a rare good sportsman all his life.
Among those temporarily out of the Big
Fight are Chaplain P. S. Waddy (wounded) and
Lieut.-Col. R. F. Beardmore (ill). Waddy, the elder
brother of “Gar” and “Mick,” lifted a bat in Aus-
tralian cricket; and besides getting a “blue” at
Oxford (Eng.) played with Surrey county. He last
year resigned the headmaStership of King’s School,
Parramatta (N.S.W.), for khaki. Beardmore, who
did a lot for N.S.W. rifle-shooting, won the D.S.O.
and was wounded in the Somme battle.
» ■* » *
“J.F.H.” (London) : Old-time Australian
pugilist Frank Slavin continues to hammer away at
the Huns as a member of the Canadian contingent.
Latest information about him is that he has returned
to the trenches after a partial breakdown. He was
offered two months’ leave to recuperate, but begged
his Colonel to allow him to resume duty, and the
Colonel acquiesced. Frank P. is credited with the
statement: “I don’t think Fritz will last much
longer. He would not want peace if the shoe did
not pinch somewhere. Fancy me in my early days
wanting to quit before the contest was decided if I
was winning! Ridiculous!” Fifty-seven days of
continuous shell-firing all around- got upon his
nerves, but the old tough ’un is all right again and
hopes to be on the spot when Germany throws up
the sponge.
When Darcy went away in a coal bunker
Australians waited to hear where he was being
starred. Instead there seems to be a message in
the newspapers every other day about the place in
which he has been barred. Meanwhile Darcy is
getting a fair deal from some of the newspapers
in Yankeeland. which do the young man the justice
of recalling “his great patriotic and self-sacrificing
efforts in Australia on behalf of his wounded country-
men.” Some of the yarns ought to appeal to Uncle
Sam. Here is one: “He travelled round the country
at one time for 500 miles taking part in entertain-
ments given to raise money for the wounded, paying
his own expenses. Eighty-seven towns were visited
and £250,000 was raised.” Yes, and then the
Censor, actuated by professional jealousy, went and
kept it out of the papers !
Mr. James Clabby, of U.S.A., is middle-
weight champion of Australia, having qualified by
length of residence to compete for the title with
Mr. Thomas Uren. They competed on Saturday at
Sydney Stadium and gave a fine exhibition of clever-
ness in hugging one another. It was hug and cuddle
and i>ush for 16 rounds —dexterous, no doubt, but
inexpressibly dreary. Clabby had a bit the best of
the weariness, and in the real boxing over the last
three rounds did better than Tommy. Wherefore
James got the verdict. But as an affray between
champions this conflict may not live more than a
century in the history of bash. There are rumors of
devastation ensuing between Clabby and Dave Smith
and MeGoorty.
A stranger, Bert Andrews, engaged with
Wave Geike at Brisbane on Saturday night. Albert
started proceedings with the austere fervor of an
anti-booze fanatic, and looked like transforming
Waverley into mutton. Then he suddenly assumed
the stiffness of a hot-pie cart and until the tenth
round was content to cut and run or hang on to
brother Geike. Thereupon the referee yawned with
great weariness and pushed Mr. Andrews off the
premises.
“E.V.K.” : A recent fight between a Chow
and an Abo. at Melbourne Stadium reminded me of
an argument I saw years ago between a Chinese
hawker and “a bloke be the name av Lynch.” It
was a willing go, and there was something doing
for the whole of five rounds, when the Chow retired
with a much-damaged countenance, while Lynch’s
clothes were clawed to ribbons. A bystander remarked
to John that he had got the worst of it. “No fe-ah !”
cheerfully replied the Celestial; “my face welly soon
bettah. Him got buy new clothes.”
* * * *
The end of the billiard battle between the
Lindrum brothers in Melbourne last week was a
crushing defeat for Walter, calculated to make that
gifted left-hander realise the fact that he is still
very young. It was not a championship test match,
the brethren having agreed to be sparing with the
red hazards from baulk, in which Walter is pro-
bably the most proficient. They mostly confined
themselves to the art of keeping the balls together,
the youngster endeavoring to prove himself as
expert as the champion at top-of-the-table play, and
somewhat quicker. He had a lot the worst of the
luck, as it happened, but he suffered more from his
ambition to be rapid—and then had to sit down and
watch his brother piling up the points which might
have been his had he nursed the balls more care-
fully. The licking will do young Walter good, but
meantime he feels cut up at being beaten by a third
of the game, which leaves him a long way from
championship form.
Strong-man Clarence Weber is rather keen
on motor-cycling for recreation. He is seen nowa-
days riding a 7-h.p. Indian, with four little Webers
in the sidecar. His own vehicle is a powerplus
Indian.
* * * *
The actual winner of the 200-mile motor-
cycle race run in Melbourne the other Monday had
the worst of luck. Eric Taylor, with Srnin. start,
was two miles in front of the field a mile from home,
when he ran out of petrol. He had then covered
more than 200 of the 203.8 miles, and had the fuel
held out he would have scored fastest time for the
course, as well as fastest lap.
* * * *
A collection of “sports” described as
the Goulburfi (N.S.W.) Terrier Club had an outing
the other day. One of the dogs competing in the
bloodthirsty game was named Nurse Cavell!
Stan J. Young, of East Sydney, is a new
star in N. S. Wales athletics. The diversified efforts
with which he won the club championship were—
first in high jump, putting 161 b. shot, hop, step
and jump, 220yds. flat; tie (with W. Hutton) _in
broad jump; second in 120yds. hurdles and putting
121 b. shot; thirds in javelin throwing, 440yds.
hurdles and BSoyds. flat.
» * *• *
The “intercollegiate” sports in Adelaide
are restricted to the two schools of Prince Alfred
and St. Peter, and the former won this year by just
a comfortable margin—65 to 46. It was mostly the
work of three boys, Tassie the sprinter, Fowler the
jumper, and Wilson the all-rounder. Fowler, who
already held the intercollegiate record for the
hurdles, cut it down this year to 16 2-5.
* * * *
During the first meeting of the Associated
Schools’ Athletic Union held at Hobart the other
day, Launceston Church Grammar School accumu-
lated most points and a couple of promising sprinters
were discovered. Oldham, of Launceston, won the
100yds., 220yds. and 440yds. open championships;
Overell, of Hutchins’s School, the 440yds., 200yds.
and 100yds. championships limited to kids under 15.
The art of teaching the young idea how to scoot
seems to be going ahead by leaps and bounds in the
Speck.
* * * *
“Geordie”: I only want to doff my hat to
Sydney Soccer Club. When the war gong banged
there was a club membership of 120; last week it
numbered three —and each of the trio has good
reasons for being at home. If there is a club with a
better record let it stand up en masse or forever
hold its peace.
» * * *
Parramatta A’s fine shoot in the Metro-
politan championship grade (14 shots, 800yds.) at
Randwick on Saturday will take some rubbing out.
Eight scores (out of 10) aggregated 533 points—an
average of 66.62 out of a possible 70. .Of 112 whose
scores were counted in,. W. Green and W. Clark
were the only pluggers to notch 69. The effort
lifted the club’s aggregate to 2406, and with 88
points lead over Randwick Institute the team is well
ahead of the crowd in the rush for the title.
“Eryander”: I didn’t take shot-scatter
into account (“Foo-lar,” B. 26/4/’l7) because the
time-velocity variable is fundamentally concerned
only with the line from the muzzle to the exact
centre of the shot-diagram at striking-point. The
allowance for spread comes in only as a corollary,
and can be based upon the fact that, with a 12-gun
choked to 13, the diameter of the shot-disc works out
at one inch per yard of distance. A 12-14 choke
gives fin. per yard and a “relief” bore up to 1£
inch.
* * * *
“Caly”: Re those flying-shot allowances
quoted from Curtis and; Harvey’s “Shooter’s Year
Book” (B. 19/4/’l7). Aren’t they delightful?—
sft. 9.6 in., Bft. 2.6 in., sft. 10.9 in., Bft. 6.lin.
Decimals! Ye gods and travelling ducks! Show
me the sport who can gauge a distance of sft. 10.9 in.
ahead of a gun-scared duck, and - I’ll be his man
Friday every opening-day for life. Ask any ordi-
nary wild-poulterer what “lead” he gives and he’ll
say: “Oh, about so-and-so.” He’s not finicky as to
inches and fractions because he has tested at a kero-
sene tin and knows what his gun scatters. The rest
is practice pure and simple.
* * #
“Groper”: Sample this for a pedestrian
record. A couple of years ago a “sand-wader” while
driving out beyond Yalgoo (W.A.) lost himself and
decided to camp until morning. Whilst unhitching
his horses one of them started forward and knocked
him down, the wheel passed over him and he was
left behind with a badly fractured leg, beside other
' minor injuries. He lay there throughout that night,
during the next day and until early the following
morning, when a wandering binghi happened along
within a mile or two and found a couple of horses
meandering about with trace-chains rattling about
their heels. Binghi followed their tracks and at
last came across the distressed sand-mariner, who had
been without water for the couple of days. The
blackfellow wasted no time in considering the situa-
tion, but after giving the injured man a drink and
covering him over with a couple of bags he turned
his bows for Yalgoo (between 60 anil 70 miles
away as an abo. travels) to get the only available
person capable of attending to these affairs. Arriving
at the township he explained the position to the
“doctor” (who is the local school-teacher, but who,
as side-lines, takes on any little job from under-
taker to dentist), and they set out in a buggy, and
the wreck was snugly in bed in Yalgoo before mid-
day on the following morning. The “doctor” vows
that binghi did his little ramble in from seven to
eight hours.
“Half-moon” : Had a day’s fishing recently
(on Friday, too) around Torres Strait reefs with
a line and caught fish of all sizes and varieties
until it got monotonous. Several fathoms down you
could see the clear water literally alive with them.
In shallower water my Binghi picked out some big
ones with the harpoon.' There were rock cod, trevalli,
salmon, blue fish, white fish, etc., about 15 or. IS
varieties. To finish up, the black captured a few
crabs and ■ also secured from the reef interstices, as
a result of some fancy diving, half a dozen lobsters.
Throw in the flask of whisky and the run home in
the glory of a tropical sunset, and I reckon my
chance of fetching up first in the fishing competition
is odds on. P.S.—Forgot to “record that we also
speared a turtle.
“E.”: Rock-fishers sometimes hoist a
small, chubby dark brown fish with very fine scales
resembling a sweep but without the silvery belly.
The stranger is often thrown away as being of
doubtful edibility, but it is of fair table variety.
I have taken this customer —his name is scaly
fin— W ith a small hook on the East coast, using
cungevoi or crab as bait. Another weighty gentle-
man of prime quality is the blue-belly, or lilac-
banded parrot fish. Fried, he is somewhat soft and
mushy, but when dried he is nearly, if not quite,
equal to ling. An irregular splash of intensely
bright blue under the chin serves to distinguish this
species. Our ling fish, too, though differing but
slightlv from the ling of commerce, is often thrown
awav as “cat-fish” because of the barbel on its chin.
The flesh is soft, but it is good when dried and
smoked.
* * * *
“Barb”: The red morwong, or sea-carp,
doesn’t appear in the market as often as it should.
Any warm evening in summer these fine food-fish
may be seen patrolling the rocky foreshores which
run from the north end of Balmoral to Chinaman’s
beach (Port Jackson). I have taken fair-sized ones
in that quarter with cungevoi and crab, but flesh-
bait is useless. The adult fish, which runs to nearly
2ft. in length, is mainly an outsider, rarely visit-
ing the lower parts of the harbor. Color, reddish-
brown. with pale orange fins; the side fins have
the characteristic wing-like shape common to all
the morwong family. The sea-carp is just as good
as its relatives the dusky, or common, morwong and
the jackass fish, the latter being distinguished 1W a
brown band across the shoulders. By the way, the
common morwong is often miscalled sea-perch, of
which there are several varieties. Another less
valuable member of the morwong family is the
grotesque cockatoo fish, a weed-feeder mainly, but
which bites occasionally at cungevoi or crab. Writer
has taken this freak in fairly deep water between
Bermagui and Tathra, South Coast of N. S. Wales,
on rocky grounds. The bird-like formation of
the head is remarkable. One would not be sur-
prised to hear the owner, grunt out the detestable
gag, “Pretty cocky/’
* * * *
“Bob D.”: Concerning “H.V.Es” and his
2ft. sandworm bait (B. 19/4/’l7). I have seen
worms 3ft. 6in. long dug from the Deewhy Beach
(N.S.W.). The fisherman didn't waste a lump of
good meat on them, either. He dragged a dry bone
over the sand and the inhabitants came out to
investigate the matter. The easiest way to get them
when once they show their heads is to put a shovel
down underneath them.
“H.Y.E.”: Pike, of which there are at
least two varieties in Australian seas, don’t come to
the table much, although they are said to be plentiful.
As a rule, before the bai.t reaches the noses
of the more aristocratic pike, some plebeian parrot-
fish or leatherjacket dashes out and scoffs_ it. As
pike feed close inshore it should be practicable to
take them in quantity by use of the trammel net.
With the line fish-bait or crab is efficient lure. The
flesh is on the soft side, '■’’.erefore should be cooked
ouieklv. He fries well.


«
a
■
mm
m
“WITH HEALTH
Everything is a Source of Pleasure.**
—without it, nothing else, whatever it may be, is enjoyable.
Even the other personal blessings—a great mind, a happy
temperament—are degraded and dwarfed for want of it.
Everything should be secondary to health.
There’s no reason why you should not be healthy—Nature
intended you to be so.
The various organs of your body have certain functions to
perform. It is your duty to see that these organs are not
overtaxed or run down, which will prevent them from
properly fulfilling their respective functions. For instance
constipation, indigestion, and other disorders of the system
are the direct result Of your internal muscles being much
below normal—failing in their duty.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health? Then why not
write to-day for full particulars of my
Postal Course of Health 8 Strength Culture ?
This is proof of what I say:—
Dear Mr. Baker, —I received your final section of
your Postal Course of Physical Culture, and must say
that the exercises have made a wonderful difference to
me, both physically and mentally, besides being a
pleasant recreation. I shall always keep them by me
for future use.
(Signed) R C , Dargavilla, New Zealand.
Many hundreds of letters from pupils all over Australia and
New Zealand, are in the same strain.
I should like you to have my booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF CULTURE,” which tells all about
my methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and send it to me with three
penny stamps for postagie.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
606 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
SE
llfr L r
m
P
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS.
USE IT AND PROVE !T.
Brtflih Imperial 03 Co. LA
SAMSON HORNS.
Every Motorist Wants a Good Horn, and they
get it in the “SAMSON,” which can be used
in five different positions.
No. 35“ Samson-Tiger” (11 "overall), 25/-'each
No. 36 “Samson-Tiger” (Motor-cycle), 24/6 each
No. 45 “Samson-Lion” over all), 21/- each
No.46“Samson-Lion” (Motor-cycle), 21/- each
The above Hand Horns Post Free anywhere in
Australasia. Vibrator and Motor Horns - from ■
16/-. Ask for Catalogue No. 30015.
RAMSAY SHARP & CO. LTD,
217 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Write for Appointment as District Agent.
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
g
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cyclc,
4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
\
m
r J,
Sndim Power
Makes “INDIAN” the Motorcycle supreme
on Hill, on Track, and with the Side-Car.
Catalogue “ D ” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty- Ltd.,
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE :
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Pirle St
LAUNCESTON :
John King & Sons Ltd., Charles St.
PERTH :
Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency,
Hay St.
PATON
6066
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bali Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES.
dfg
fd
YOU, who appreciate the BEST footwear,
will certainly be pleased with the smart
styles, distinctive appearance and great
serviceability of MONEY SHOES.
We illustrate a choice Tan Box Calf Bal.,
with stout soles. Very comfortable, smart
and serviceable.
Price - - 32/6
Postage 9d. extra.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Ar.d at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Rjfie
Smitiore
Smile
iiMioiita
You know this smile—but do you know -
< C ofve
EVERMORE
annnncßi
Strg^
■STROPPER
Price 13/-
The only automatic Strapper
which the true Slyde-Stroke
so essential in any
razor.
Special adapters are provided
with each Strapper jov the.
sharpening of any make of
saYetv -razor blade both sin&le
Defied >
Arrowy
Diagonal
OOING DOWN^
gpcs Ifowrt when
L-eft }iand pdfs
Ask Your Deafer
io Demonstrate it'
Dotted
Arrows show
Diagonal
GOING UP~
when fraEM Iwnd
IF UNPROCURABLE WRITE BOX -1003 G. P 0 . SYDNEY
OEfiOX H C.P.O. AUCKLAND . NEW ZEALAND *»


How I Darkened My
Grey Hair.
Lady Gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
Foi yeai & I tried to restore my grey hair
to its natural color -with the prepared dves
and stains, but none of them gave satisfac-
tion and they were all expensive. I finally
came across a simple recipe which I mixed
at home that gives wonderful results I
gave the recipe, which is as follows, to a
number of my friends, and they are all
delighted with i-t. To 7oz. of water add a
small box of Orlex Compound and loz. of
bay rum. These ingredients can be bought
at any chemist’s at very little cost. Use
every other day until the hair becomes the
required shade. It will not only darken
the grey hair but removes dandruff and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not stickv or
S^elp—Anvr rr.
JASON
UNDERWEAR
British Made tl
from Australasian Wool.
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS,
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
bad legs Poisoned hands insect & snake
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12 - per box.
Sold by all Drug: Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents :
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
WAWN’S
Wonder-Wool
STOPS PAIN.
Wawn’g Wonder Wool is a scientifi-
cally-processed form of Cotton Wool,
the fibres of which after being'
specially treated are thoroughly im-
pregnated with unique medicinal
essences whose pain-relieving virtues
and soothing effects are immediately
felt when applied to all pains caused
by congestion of the blood, such as
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout,
Lumbago, Chilblains, etc.
All nervous ailments like Neuritis,
Neuralgia, Toothache, Headache and
all diseases of the Throat, Chest and
Lungs, including
PNEUMONIA, BRONCHITIS
and COMMON COLDS
;j re immediately dispelled and ulti-
mately cured by the delightful
waimth and stimulating properties
with which Wawn’s Wonder Wool is
charged.
Pl&ce it where the pain is and the
pain stops.
As a means of producing a sensation
of restful comfort Wawn’s Wonder
Vvool has no equal.
The secret of Wawn’s Wonder Wool
is its stimulating action on the blood,
the congestion of which in any one
part causes pain.
Bv quickening the circulation of the
blood (instantly recognised bv the
pleasant tingling sensation it sets up)
Wawn’s Wonder Wool enables the
blood to resume its normal flow—the
congestion disappears and with it
all inflammation and pain.
For Bronchitis, Asthma,
Catarrh, Quinsey, Coughs
ana Colds, it is an invalu-
able remedy.
fawn’s Wonder Wool, sold
by all chemists and stores,
-a/S or posted direct from
the proprietor, 2/-
UROSAL completely dissolves
TTric Acid > 2/6; or direct from the
proprietor, 2/6.
V. A. WAWN,
Manufacturing Chemist,
(Crigor’s Pharmacy),
186 George Street North,
SYDNEY.
%
Officers
Musketry Instructors —
Surveyors, Prospectors, Sportsmen,
Will you test
this PocKet Range-Finder
for a week?
All yon need do is to write for the llange-Finder,
enclosing your cheque or money order for £'i 55.. and we
will send the instrument, complete in leather belt-case,
post free and fully insured, by return. If. after testing
it for seven days, you are not entirely satisfied and return
the instrument in good condition, we will refund your
money.
With the Hymans Pocket Range-Finder you can take the range of any object
within 2 per cent, of error, with a base of only 5 or 10 yards. Also, where the
height or width of object is known, operator need not even move when taking range.
This makes the instrument invaluable for rapid sea and river navigation, etc. No
technical knowledge is needed; range may be taken in a few seconds. The instrument
is of simple construction, strong, weighs only 4 ounces, and can easily be carried
in the waistcoat pocket.
IT HAS BEEN APPROVED BY AND SUPPLIED TO H.M. WAR OFFICE
and to upwards of 2000 individual officers.
Here are two of a large number of unsolicited Testimonials:
“1 am going to keep the Hymans Range-Finder. I like
it very much. In my opinion yours is the best > range-finder
for active-service purposes that I have seen.”
— Capt. W. Maitland Dougall, R.F.A., B.E.F.
‘‘l find your Range-Finder a handy little instrument for
rapid navigation at sea.”
■ —Midshipman — II.M.S. Defence.
THE
POCKET
RANGE-FINDER
(PATENT No. mi 15).
PRICE,
including
Reg di Post
full War-risk
J nsurance,
£3-s*o
Send cheque to-day, or write for free descriptive leaflet to the Patentee and
Manufacturer —
CHAS. HYMANS, Dept. 21, CAMBRIDGE,
The Finest Fountain Pen to
Pen
have and to hold.
Treat the “ Onoto ” fairly and it will serve you for a lifetime.
The “ Onoto ” is made of the finest materials and is buiit for service.
The 11 Onoto ’ ’ is self-filling, it is easy to fill, and it never leaks.
All the parts of the “ Onoto ” are carefully adjusted, and accurately fitted,
and there is nothing to get out of order.
The “Onoto” Gold Nib is scientifically hardened, and it will stay hard.
The ‘ 1 Onoto ’ ’ Gold Nib will last as long as the rest of the pen will hold
together.
The “ Onoto ” Nib never splutters and never scratches.
The “ Onoto ” is the only fountain pen that gives absolute satisfaction at
all times.
Price 14/6 each.
All Stationers. Jewellers & Stores.
‘Manufacturers, Thomasdela Rue &Co.L,td.,Bunhill
Road, London. B.C. Managing Agents, Norman
Baker &Longhurst, York Street. Sydney.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT GOLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effecft in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma All Chest
Affections.
1,6 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St, Sydney,
who will forward post free.
SN
m
%
\k
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink;
t&WA
THE
SOLDIERS’
PE\ T .
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
AIABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255a George St., Sydney
gfd
Rebuked for standing idly by while a
neighbor beat his wife, a witness in a Rich-
mond (Vic.) assault case explained: “Well,
I did think it a bit of a cheek of him.”
The Victorian police force has one Chester-
field at least. Giving evidence at Fitzroy
(Melb.) the other day, he said: “When I
went into the bar the prisoner had the man
down on the floor, beating him about the
head with a soda bottle. I stopped him. I
said : ‘Haven't you got any manners?’ ”
Melbourne was lately looking for a .lost,
stolen or strayed comet, which the Observa-
tory had failed to observe, although it had
been spotted by numerous ''outsiders, includ-
ing an enginedriver, who said it was one of
tae largest he had ever seen. Evidently he
thinks in universes, and comets are the play-
things of his idle hours. He saw it “between
the Ferntree Gully railway line and the
point of sunrise.” Anyone having noticed
the stray, which, though it has a long tail,
bears no visible brands, is expected to im- •
pound it and notify the Observatory. Pos-
sibly it will be sold to defray agistment
expenses.
Kitchen jobs bore Billjim stiff. A Mari-
byrnong soldier got rounds of applause
rrom his cobbers the other day when on the
onions and spuds job. “What did you do in
the big war, Daddy?” he lisped in infantile
accents. Then in a deep bass: “Peeled onions
and potatoes, my boy.” Even the bombardier
charged with seeing the job fairly done
had to mask a grin with his hand.
A rather dusty lady entered a Sydney sub-
urban registrar’s office and applied for voters’
enrolment forms “for meself and ’usband.”
lhe official, having satisfactorily filled in
her card, proceeded to write up hubby’s elec-
toral pedigree, but was stopped dead with :
I say, Mister, I'll take the old man’s home
with me and let him fill it in himself” Then
in a confidential whisper: “To tell vou the
truth, I only know ’is nickname!”
“Fitzshrapnel”: We called him Rowdy
-Bill because he had never been known to
waste a word. One night he was returning
from the club by the usual route —over the
fence—-ami landed square in front of the
orderly-officer doing rounds. “Here, where
do you think you're going?” inquired that
surprised individual. “Back,” replied the
equally-surprised Bill, and. hurried in that
direction.
Some time ago a body of Victorian enthusi-
usts, assisted by the patronage and blessing
of the David Hennessys and the Frank Mad-
dens, started to encourage the raw-silk
industry in this country. Grub-farms were
established m various back-gardens and the
State provided large numbers of white mul-
berry trees at a penny each. Now, owing
to the non-arrival of silk-winding machinery
*rom ranee, the concern is in a state of
suspended animation. Its members at
present can only sit back and listen to their
mulberry-trees growing and hope for a bet-
ter time. Of course, the contriving of a
reliable Australian silk-winder is out of the
question, although in days gone by there
used to be 10-year-old Australian school-kids
who made practicable cocoon-strippers with
a pw bits of wire and cardboard, upon
which they skeined inconceivable quantities
of pale, lettuce-fed silk. But the idea of
making anything of the sort in this coun-
try for dealing with silk on a large scale
must naturally be quite beyond the powers
of the local manufacturer.
The bad habit of picking up things has
lingered with Margaret Herbert, of Sydney,
who earned three months in a suburban
court reecntly with a hand-saw, hammer
and shirt belonging to a tram conductor who
wasnt looking. The poor old thing (69
now) began to be convicted in ’B5, and to
date has scored 137 convictions. She has
walked hundreds of miles to gaol with scores
of nice policemen, many of them now dead
or pensioned off with corns. She will pro-
bably score 140 before the end of the year ;
and every added notch is a burst of derision
at the methods of the Law.
I The fine record of a; Trafalgar (Vic.)
family, which was opened with a D.S.O. by
Major George Matson Nicholas, is being car-
ned on by his brother, Lieut. Brvon Nicho-
las, who, at 24, has gained the Military
Gross. The Major, a fine soldier, was killed
in action almost at once after returning to
the 1 roiit from London, where he had mar-
ried Hilda Rix, a well-known Victorian girl.
Another brother has returned to Australia
and a fourth is still with the forces. Young
Bryon, whose aquiline nose and decided chin
give him a sticking resemblance to Welling-
ton as a young man, left as a private in
May, 1945. served five months in Gallipoli,
and went to France, being transferred from
Light Horse to Infantry. He got his com-
mission at an officers’ training-school in
Blighty, where he headed the list of success-
ful Australians.
“Vic”: The most remarkable Chinese in
Melbourne are Rose Quong, barrister Ah
Ket, and the Church of England Rev. J.
Gheong, M.A. At a concert in the Cathedral
Ghapter House last week, Rose Quong gave
a recital from “As You Like It,” with a
charming embodiment of Rosalind. Yon
could, easily mistake her for an Italian or a
Spaniard, and the same may be said of Ah
Ivet and Cheong. Cheong’s preaching,
always carefully subdued, is much admired
by the Anglicans. To his High Church
manner he adds a flavoring of Orientalism
that captures all feminine hearts. If he
were a white with far less ability, he would
get a snug vicarage.
Here is a. versatile Australian. L. E.
Dawson left with the Light Horse, trans-
ferred to a camel corps and has now joined
the air service. He is a son of pilot Daw-
son, of Torres Strait.
Edwin Jones, of Melbourne’s Ancient
Mariners, who initiated the sea-scout move-
ment. and has got; GO lads in training at
Albert Park, is off to Britain with the idea
of spending a skipper’s holiday in the North
►Sea aboard a mine-sweeper. If the sea-
scout training is continued on the lines that
Jones laid down, and in the same quiet sort
of way, it will do a lot of good to a growing
number of growing boys, and to he Com-
monwealth. The danger to be most care-
fully avoided is Sassiety patronage, which
is so very apt to follow a success of this
sort—and claim credit for it.


Your Vote Required for Meggitt’s
,I, ill .it iliiil \ ntBBMOBBBKSaSIBaBBKSBMKMBSBSSSMBtBBBSSXSSSWBSSBSSBWBOBaSSMBL Will ■!! i' <■ nl I ■ BBBaMBHBBBWHBBWEMBMHBBEBarJJIi 1 J I.MI f ar.BWS'ia.m.l .nBgEBB3MBnSgggMaMPMMMHMB«anBBHBnB«aBg«»ag»MgBgPa»BgaBHaBS1 11 ■11SM!3B8BB8B
TESTIMONY WE LIKE.
Early in March no fewer than 50 of the Master Painters of Australia, together with representatives of the big oiLdistributing
houses, visited our mills at Parramatta. All were unanimous in their opinion that Meggitt’s Linseed Oil was equal to, if not
better than the world’s best, and all assured us that they would give it their unswerving support. To=day our output has
increased by 50% above that of 1916. EVERYONE SHOULD INSIST ON GETTING MEGGITT’S.
PAINTERS!
VOTE
FOR
MECCF 1 *
UNSEED OILI^
r
&
|V»
\ u<L '<"
/.
£)
, -.-
\
7
7S>
•i '
0 f
I ‘
V
&
tv
,\l
\\y
r
\y
4
%
sasana
z.
/
/
PAINTERS, Help to make Australia prosperous by using Linseed Oil,
made by good Australian Workmen at Parramatta.
From all Stores or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
Sydnov
N.S.W.


$
■
• V! v .if*
He cannot bear the sight
of food
Eating produces Nausea, Heartburn, Acid
Risings in the 1 hroat, Flatulence and Vomiting
undigested food. When he reads or applies
himself to business. his eyes ache and bum, and
he get pains in the head. His mind is listless
and memory impaired. The vigor of life has
departed—he sees no use in making an effort,
gives way to despair and is tired of life. But
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at once attacks all these symptoms. One by one
they disappear and he feels a new man. Fishers
Phospherine energises the whole system and can
be taken with benefit by sufferers from Indigestion,
Acidity, Muscular Rheumatism, Backache, Mal-
rria, Headache, Brain Fag, Nervousness and,
Neuralgia.
All Chemists and stores.
1/• per Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed % the lead-
ing' Aurfsts of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific ‘Hearing Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
gfd
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone rna , n - v tiiiie s as efficient
, . ... . an d powerful as the old
model Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernards Buildings, 387 GEOROE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, just o?f Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
Ci
nak
jv*®
fake
You
JUSI
like that—
Cinnak is a pink powder,
which liquefies as soon as it
is placed on the tongue, and
throws off a gas which at
once penetrates the breathing
passages, sterilises the cold
germs, gives immediate relief,
and very quickly cures colds,
sore throats and nasal catarrh.
SEND IT TO THE BOYS
AT THE FRONT.
It prevents as well as cures. An occa-
sional dose is an excellent protection against
meningitis, colds, laryngitis, etc.
ALL CHEMISTS SELL CINNAK,
per tube
per tube.
g
fd
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
they are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form. But think of it in reality, a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a dainty Louis heel. If ever there was
an ideal shoe for smart wear in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
Bostock No.
P 6458
■
m
m
11111 I
i
IgpiiS
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoek.”
Do not miss the latest Rostock ship-
ments now on view at the leading stores.
gfd
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
MORE THAN A MERE SHOE POLISH.—■
That’s so. BOSTOCK’S Shoe Dressings are more than a mere polish—they’re
leather preservers as well.
Remember, a polish that only shines the leather makes it crack, and thus ruins
your shoes.
BOSTOCK’S POLSHES can be had in Cream and Paste, 6d. and 1/-
Sold everywhere. Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown and White.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD.
Miss Gladys Cooper Explains
Some Beauty Secrets.
The Popular London Star Favors Simple Methods.
I have been asked to give a few simple recipes that I know, either through personal
use or by observation, to be valuable to the toilet, and which are within the reach of the
average woman. In these days of £lOO facial treatments and elaborate and expensive
beautifying processes my suggestions may read like lessons in economy, but they are
not especially so intended. They are merely practical suggestions, in which the keynote
is “effectiveness.” All the materials or ingredients which I mention are either already
at hand in the home or may be readily procured from the chemist. Fortunately Ido not
suffer from the ailments or troubles enumerated below, but some people who are not so
fortunate have told me their experiences, and with your permission I will set forth some
remedies which they have found to be efficacious.
Home-made Hair Tonic.
M.v acquaintances say that a good stimulant
to the natural growth of the hair is borauium.
A very simple, effective and safe stimulating
lotion made up by mixing one ounce of bora-
nium with i pint of bay rum. This may be
applied to the hair roots occasionally with the
finger-tips with good results.
Complexion Renewals.
Complexion exports advise me that a normal,
healthy complexion is constantly renewing it-
self by dropping off tiny flakes of worn-out
tissue, thus revealing the fresh young skin
underneath. They say that when this process
is checked by age, expo-
sure or some of iLuay
causes, the complexion
becomes dull and ugly.
The rational treatment
recommended is to help
the skin perform the
natural functions of
“shedding” worn-out tis-
sue. For this purpose. I
am informed, there is
nothing so good as pure
mercolized wax, used for
a few nights, just as you
would use a face cream.
It is claimed that it pos-
sesses a special affinity’
for the effete scarf-skin,
which it quickly removes
by absorbing it. The face.
I am assured, will soon
look much younger and
prettier under this treat-
ment.
The Curling Iron.
Don't use a hot iron to
curl your hair. Some of
my friends make the cun-
ningest sort of curls
wherever they want
them simply by damp-
ing the hair with liquid
silmerine before retiring
at night. When the hair is dry in the morn-
ing it will he softly curly just where you
want it to he. This method is perfectly harm-
less, even beneficial to the hair, and the curls
last a long time. The liquid is quite pleasant
and neither sticky nor greasy.
How to Shampoo.
Most women, I am informed, do not know
how to use stallax properly when shampooing
with itl Unless the hair is naturally very
oily, a stallax shampoo may sometimes leave
it rather dry. But lam told if you will apply
olive oil freely to your hair and scalp just
before shampooing with stallax, the result is
most delightful. The hair will be left clean,
soft, bright and wavy, the olive oil having
properly balanced the action of this wonderful
hair cleanser.
Is Powder Necessary?
A great many women object to using pow-
der, for various reasons. The following
formula is a good one: Dissolve an ounce of
:
jar.
'
-i
MISS GLADYS COOPER.
Photo Wrather & Buy.
cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of water, or
witcli-liazel, and use it as a face lotion,
smoothing the skin with the fingers until it
is dry. This method is, perfectly harmless.
I am told that a really beautiful, natural, vel-
vety bloom results and remains for many hours
quite unaffected by the most trying conditions
out of doors or in the ballroom or theatre,
and that it gives a much more natural appear-
ance to some sains than does ordinary powder.
Grey Hair.
I have observed many attempts of many
people to conceal grey hair. Some of these
experiments were amusing, some disastrous,
and some were success-
ful. Personally I believe
I shall let my hair turn
when the appointed time
comes, but if I were
going to try to evade it,
I would give a trial to a
real old “grandmother”
formula that would prob-
ably do the work. This
formula. I am informed,
has been used with de-
crees of success for many,
generations, and consists
merely of two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite
mixed with three ounces
of bay rum. It is ap-
plied to the grey hair
a few times with a small
sponge, and ladies tell
me it appears to darken
the hair to a natural
shade, not like a dye. but
gradually and naturally.
Miscellaneous Hints.
A few useful hints from
my friends on aids to
beauty, are as follows:
Theeyebrowsand lashes
may be made to grow
stronger and darker by
applying mennaline, a
specially delicate pomade, with the finger-tips
at night.
Rouge is often obvious, and many women
therefore prefer to use powdered colliandum,
which gives a most natural tint.
The lips may be prevented from drying and
chapping by touching them with a stick
of prolactum, which also gives them a good
color.
Freckles are most effectively combated with
ammoniated mercury creams, of which jetta-
line is the best.
Note.—This interesting article on beauty
culture in general was written by Miss Gladys
Cooper at the request of the manufacturers of
Pilenta Soap;—the best complexion soap in the
world. On stile by all chemists. M
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
E.L.: Oh yes, read every word of it. And
agreed with most of it, as well. The difference
between the two lots is that one opposed Conscrip-
tion and the other defeated it —-so there’s not much
to choose there. On the other hand, one lot says
Protection and the other lot always has said Free-
trade, and one lot is Australian and the other is
something it calls Imperial; and that and a few
other things swing the balance definitely.... Z.: A
par. in it if you had told us, something intimate
about the man. The Bulletin wants things the
people don’t know about those they do know. .. .
F. : The companies law is so rotten that so far
as we know you have no redress except through an
Equity suit. .. .C.C.D.: Doesn’t catch the spirit....
M.A.S.: “Thomas Oliver Hayes” bumps hopelessly
out of tune at the second stanza. .. .1.11. F.: “El
Arish” is worth something better than that. . . .Leila:
Poor verse about nothing. .. .L.K.F.: Try again when
you’re 26 and he’s 30.... Rustic: No use at a 11....
G. : The “Fog” is too thick.... G.P.M.: I)o you
ride the horse over the sea for pleasure, or merely
because you haven’t another insane rhyme handy?
....Johnnie: Too much mystery. Every “poem”
ought to have at least one intelligible idea hidden
somewhere about it....R.R.: The person who would
rhyme “hour” with “flowers” must have an ear
like a watermelon A.J.P..:, . Yon write in the
vilest and most slovenly way on two sides of the
paper. And then 3 011 ask favors!. .. . E,W.: As
“prose” it is badly marred by the recurrent rhymes ;
but if that is only your joke and you mean it
for verse it’s a bit worse than otherwise. .. .M.D.:
Take the horrible thing away. .. .N.R.: A slight
thing that could only have made good by skilful
handling. .. .L.E.N.T.: Feeble hash of commonplace
thought.... Y.Z.: Well, that’s the feeblest to date.
■And you’ve collared * another man’s pen name.
.. . .11. D.: “Contrast” seems plain insanity....
J.D.K.: 0ut.... W.I-1.L.: Horrible. . . .C.F.: “Pop-
pies” not quite well enough done. ... Nulla: There’s
an idea there ; take some pains with it. . . .Blue Nose:
Three lines world have taken all there is in it....
J. P.: Yarn has a fresh, young beauty which
doesn’t look wholesome. We prefer ripe fruit.
. ...M.8.P.: “Experience” shows good verse, con-
struction, but doesn’t hit K. 8.: “Portrait Gal-
lery” too slight.... 8.5. G.: Australia may not be all
she might be, but it’s hardly fair to throw verse like
that at her.,.. .T.C.: You have contrived to get a
different collection of bumps,in every line and a sort
of general stagger-to-a-finish in every four. .. .
A.H.M.: Doesn’t strike us R.S.: “Petrol Saver”
too carelessly handled 8.N.5.: Nothing in it
Yanko: Feeble and clumsy... .W.E.: Thin and com-
monplace. .. .8.L.11.: You don’t get beyond the >mere
conventional things written on the same theme. All
you say could be summed-up in the. one phrase:
“Good dog.”. .. . A.D.: Good sentiment; not so good
verse S.L.: The description of the Canadian’s
performance appeils to us:—
Up the hill the Canadians came,
Like charging Devils filled with flame.
The Germans trembled as they heard the shout;
Some fled, some swore, some stopped to have a bout.
Fritz ground his teeth or smiling threw
His arms above his head —’twas all he could do.
His officer cursed loud and long,
For everything had all gone wrong.
His trenches lost, his men gone mad,
No Iron Cross—his luck was very bad.
But on the brave Canadians tore
And with the Huns they wiped the floor
Until they rested on Yimy Hill—
They’d won a lot, and they’re winning still.
.. . .Hilary L.: Much obliged. They were a bit of a
relief from the everlasting Cookughes, weren’t they?
. ...E.J.C.: Typed stuff is preferred; but yours
isn’t a bad fist.
TO ARTISTIC ("AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.M.: Condemned... .S.S.: Sure it isn’t a varia-
tion of a. Hun cartoon on Uncle Sam ?. .. . E.A.: For
home use only. . . .L.0.D.: Don’t want the lopsided
nightmare....R.E..l.: Did you think we’d use it?
. ...J.C.: Disqualified. .. .G.H.T.: Dull A.K.:
Your modern wife is too Egyptian about the hands.
. ...R.FI.W.: Old gag and a poor drawing... .Syd
R.: Too labored. .. .A.W.K.: Out. . . .R.H.: Very old
flea joke.
[lf anything in this column requires a signature,
H. Prior,, John Barr, E. O’Ferrall and D.
M. Wright, of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept
the responsibility.]
“F.N.” : The Great Public schools of Vic-
toria, which already have a remarkable record
of war-service, have arranged with the De-
fence Department to organise a new A.I.F.
unit, to consist entirely of men who have
passed through one or other of the six asso-
ciated schools of Melbourne and Geelong.
Recruits will camp, train, embark and light
together; and the plan will lit in neatly with
the decision of the military authorities to
make 19 years the minimum age for uncondi-
tional enlistment. There will be drawbacks, of
course, such as the inevitable suggestion of
snobbery; but the first sniff of battle-smoke
will settle all that.
A while back a Victorian firm of millers
missed £OOOO worth of sacks, and after
much investigation the police commandeered
one Jackson, an employee, and told him
they were quite sure he had annexed the
bags in company with others suspected, and
charged him with conspiring to defraud in
conjunction with one of these others.
Jackson pleaded guilty and disinterred £47?
from his backyard, the same being, he said,
his share of the proceeds of the deal. The
jury acquitted Jackson’s friend, and as the
law said Jackson couldn’t conspire with
himself he was discharged also. This ought
to have been hint enough to the law, but
that animal, being in a dense mood, seized
another of Jackson’s friends and charged
the two with conspiracy. Again Jackson
pleaded guilty, again the jury acquitted the
other and again Jackson was discharged. As
it hasn’t to pay for this foolishness out of
its own feed-bag, the law is probably willing
to continue till it gets tired. Ever since the
days when Matthew Davies found himself
in the dock this paper has deemed “con-
spiracy” a fool of a charge. Couldn’t some
dominating personality be persuaded to pass
a short Act declaring that a man may con-
spire with himself?


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME
At the War
s:
m
'
\
V
X
v
'k v \
\ s.
ft
JS-
«*»!>
V
/
m
X?
M
s&%i
< -
m
, |
sH
9&r •
o*l
gjf j^?ti
HHI
-Wt
ft
go®
j
ftSSi
iWiS
/
ft
.£jV/vV
J
• . .
SKS
/
-..
-
fi&SfflS?
( N
i
8»
w
.<ys
■
s|s|
-Pi
•V ■ -•v--''> j:
ov
•S
' ■■•■•■■■:
UCX^OS/^p
€€
Cobra.” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Says to Uncle
Sam, “How do!
“In the country
Of the free
“Now vou have
j.
The ‘COBRA’ Th
“Guess the Hun
Will leave for hom
“W lien you step
Across the foam.
“'COBRA’s with
Sam, old chap!
“Let us oro and
Clean the map!”
you,


.Shipping.
orient Line
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) 1
MACKAY f
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
;i nd other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 5.
BURWAII (Cargo Only).
Leaves Melbourne, May 8.
Leaves Sydney, May 12.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 10.
Leaves Sydney, May 19.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. :iml \V. A. ports)
“Passengers only.
SOUTH.
CAN 810 I! HA '(8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 12.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTIIOIUSF.D CAPITAL .. ' .. £2,00.0,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Uo £1,198,079
RESERVE FUND £95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets. Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street, EC.
DIRECTORS —Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq,, LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysauiit, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies, throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all . the principal towns of. the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WTLLIAM DAVIES ; E. TT. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Otiiee: Brisbane.
Sydney (Mice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS AEL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . . . .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 189$ specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON-.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
|he Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, Limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater. M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Mosf.s, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Diisbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St„ SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. •• •• 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed'periods, and
iransacts all other usual Banking business.
•jy Suiililnis
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIE’S, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOTvINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings (o Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROE fill PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATH ER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
*-■
m
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ~ 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Directors:
WALES.
£3,705,320
£2,725,000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck-land, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, /Esq. ; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Th read needle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
■T. RTWBELL FRENCH. General Manager.
of Hustralta
■ HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY. 1
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/'
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 3 0 /
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
J\ME3 KELL, Deputy Gorernor. r June, 1916 DEN I SOX .MILLER, Gorernor
THRIFT SUGGESTIONS
Thrift does not require superior courage, nor superior intellect, nor any superhuman
virtue. It merely requires a little patient self-denial. “BEGIN” is its device.
Even 1/- a week deposited regularly in this Bank will amount to £2O/10/7 in
seven years.
This Bank Offers You Every Facility for Saving.
Deposits received from
1/- upwards.
132 Branches and 500
Agencies throughout
the State.
mMm
&
1r
3
3
Or
CP
4
LL.
INTEREST
C 3
ON
CP
DEPOSITS
O*
s
/V
Interest paid at
3%% per annum on
every £ up to £5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
I
J
PARINGA, Saturday, May 5.
- MORIALTA, Saturday, May 12.
RUPARA, Saturday, May 19.
Transhipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Oliice.
G. S. VDILL X. CO., r/n> ,
Agents. G EEIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,’’
“Riverina,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
“Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLET’S, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON &'CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper-
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers! meet their friends, use tho
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


<
fbe points that matter
Qualify
The- nichgl/n Gualfly
there is only one The Best,
Price
The right price and the
fowesl" for Ibe mileage obtained
Mileage
The greatest mileage obtainable
-prom ary -tyre
Economy
i The economy iy evident,
and assured , in usinq
Mich el in Tyres obtainable prom all leading dealers
MALTED
MILK
MALTED BARLEY— WHEAT & MILK r
Are the constituents of Horlick’s Malted Milk. These “After
to build up the human frame and bring back health s g Qnce f otlceasie .
a cup of Horlick s, an increase of mental and ph\ sical P
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Urm .
GET HORLICK’S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.
to'Akrs invM-'®*
Co °XUJC
OR MILK
. g)
Sani-Fltish
Makes and Keeps
Toilet Bowls Clean
A little Sani-Flush sprinkled into
the bowl every few days will keep
it spotless and sanitary. It reaches
and cleans the trap.
The use of Sani-Flush means no
more dipping of water, no scrub-
bing. San:-Flush is not a general
cleanser, but an unique preparation
I ' Jiwfe'v.**£-_/<
t\%4
L2m>
m
to clean toilet
bowls and
keep them
clean.
Ask
Your Dealer
Yourdealer
has Sani-Flttsh
or can get it
quickly; or
writeusacard
giving yourdealer s
name and we will
have you supplied.
Sani- Flush
should be used wherever there are
toilet bowls in residences and all
other buildings
Does not injure plumbing connections.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St. t 109 Pitt St.,
Wellington, N. Z. Sydney, N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd,
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
* ty/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and
DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON.
Loftxis Street
SYDNEY.
gfd
rt any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
r
In
Selecting
Your
Footwear
—to which do you attach most
importance, style, comfort, or
wear?
ABBEY SHOES
will satisfy you equally well in all
these essentials.
They are made in half- and full-
sizes, and in three fittings —narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a Glace Ivid Gal., with
Patent Leather Toecaps.
Price - 27/6
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
UMP
r
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely' reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
BennsttSßarkdl
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
gfd
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
fIONTSERRAT
SAUCE
sn
QAm
&
du4l
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.


The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
' liie Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since l.wii. CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on Singletousrefuse all substitutes.
The
Plenty of
ower
Speed
afety
VELIE-bietweel-SIX.
*
CLUTTERBUCK BROS. LTD., 26-38 city Road, Sydney.
The Zenith
of
Six Cylinder Cars.
Every
Modern Convenience
of a £lOOO Car for
Under £5OO.
IN BANANA LAND
“Yes” may be Right; “No” may be
Right; but “Yneos” is Absurd.
The one excuse for the Leg. Council is that
it is a “House of Review,” auditing the pro-
posed legislation of the people’s Chamber.
Blit, as a matter of fact, the Queensland
Council spends most of its time dropping its
own ideas into the Assembly’s Bills, and
making them incongruous. The result is
a crop of inconsistencies which merely give
work for the lawyers. The measure which
created the Insurance Department is a case
in point. The Assembly proposed to make
workmen’s compensation insurance a State
monopoly, on the ground that, since the
State made the insurance of all kinds of
workpeople obligatory, it was the State’s
business to provide insurance at the lowest
possible cost; and you can’t get insurance
at the lowest possible cost if there is com-
petition and canvassers have to be employed.
The monopoly idea was thus the foundation
on which the Government built up the mea-
sure. But the Council threw iu a clause
which was inconsistent with the spirit of all
the rest—a clause providing that the Gov-
ernment might authorise private cos. to take
workmen’s compensation risks. The result
has been chaos and costs; and the trouble
is even now wending its expensive wav to
the Privy Council. If the Leg. Council'bad
the job of passing an insurance bill it would
probably have produced a workable measure,
especially if. as usually happens, the busi-
ness was left to half a dozen members. So
also the Assembly could be trusted to pro-
duce a workable measure, though different
in principle. But to hand the job over to
two Houses is merely to invite the same
sort of trouble that you would get if you
hired an architect to produce a set of plans
for a freezing chamber and then passed the
drawings and specifications on to another
architect whose idea was that what you
really needed was a crematorium. Wo ought
to face the situation. Let us have either the
Assembly or the Council. If popular gov-
ernment is a success we will have the ;
Assembly. IT it is a failure let-us frankly
do away with the Assembly. To pull our
own legs, as we are doing now. is merely an
expensive and irritating farce.
Both Methodism and Liberalism in
Queensland lost a tower of strength when
Hiram Barnes passed out last week at 84.
He was a Sussex man who landed in X. S.
Wales as a boy, and finally migrated to
Queensland. Cobb and Co. engaged his
energies first; then he dived into business
for himself, starting the now important con-
cern of Barnes and Co. Ten children, 49
grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren
survive the old man; two of the sons have
made a mark in Queensland State politics.
“Nick”; Rockhampton is feeling sick just
now. The town is kept going by: (1) West-
ern Queensland trade; (2) Mount Morgan:
(3) Lakes Creek Meat Works. At Mount
Morgan 1600 men came out over a dispute
as to whether Judge McCauley really meant
absolute preference to unionists in a recent
Arbitration Court judgment. In all. 2500
men are directly affected, and Mount Mor-
gan’s output of 890 tons of copper per month
is reduced to nil. Another 500 men are
thrown out of work at Lakes Creek on
account of a rumpus between the wharf-
laborers and the Federal shipping authori-
ties. Rockhampton’s oversea exports are
shipped from Port Alma, about 40 miles from
town. The “port” is simply a wharf built on
mangrove swamps. There is no township, ■
and labor has to be taken from the town.
The men claim payment for all time away
from home, as no sleeping accommodation is
provided at. the Port. The Board responsi-
ble for shippiug Australia’s frozen meat
replies: “Well, anyway, we have more frozen
meat than we can find bottoms for.” So it
seems that the Shippiug Board regards this
trouble as a bit of luck that will relieve it of
the worry of looking round for boats. The
provision of about 40 camp-stretchers with
mosquito-nets would settle the Lakes Creek
trouble. A bit of straight talk to all con-
cerned would put the Mount Morgan fool-
ishness at an end. Both disputes have lasted
for weeks, and though civilisation is clamor-
ing for food and copper, nobody seems to
care. The Win-tlie-War politician is too
busy electioneering.
The Bananaland Government, having
established butchers’ shops, hotels, sawmills,
cattle stations, coal mines and other ven-
tures, has been deputationised to put up a
State crematorium. Already 1000 acres
are utilised for cemeteries in and around
Brisbane and another 700 acres are re-
served at Mount Gravatt. For the crema-
torium five acres would suffice, and the
cost would be only £5OOO. Doctors, barris-
ters and parsons supported the request, and
Home Secretary Huxham promised that the
necessary Bill would be introduced next
session. But in this matter it looks as
though the State ought to adopt the prin-
ciple which it applies to the extension of
gas mains. The citizen who wants a gas
service has to undertake to be a customer.
Suppose the Government were to require a
personal guarantee of 5000 customers
before proceeding with the new heating
premises? That might save the thing being
such a frosty crematorium as the one with
which Adelaide has for years been supplied.
A patch in the Legislative Council case
before the Bananaland Full Court:—
Mr. Justice Lukin: Is the question of whether the
Commonwealth Act prevails a question of the limits
inter se of the constitutional powers of the Common-
wealth? In my opinion it is not.
The Attorney-General: Well, in my opinion it is.
Mr. Justice Lukin: It does not matter what your
opinion is.
. The Attorney-General (emphatically) : And perhaps
it does not matter what your Honor’s opinion is.
either.
The Chief Justice: It is not customary, Mr.
Attorney, to tell a Judge that vour opinion is con-
trary to his.
The Attorney-General: And it is not. customary for
a Judge to tell me that it does not matter what mv
opinion is.
But Queensland people have got quite used
to that sort of thing.
DAVID AND JONATHAN.
Democracy : ‘Ms the Lord liveth, and as my soul liveth, there is hut a step between
me and death.”
“Good Australian,” from ’Frisco:—
One “F. E. Barbat, a distinguished Australian”
who was “a member of the Queensland Parliament
irom 1911 to 1915,” has been busy interviewing the
’Frisco yellow press and predicting- civil war in Aus-
tralia very soon. He says the battles.of the coming-
war will be the same as those of the American Civil
War, and just as bloody. “The Australian people
are' accustomed to get everything from their Govern-
ment. To satisfy their demands, the Government has
borrowed from England. If it cannot borrow any
more I fear civil war will result.” And again:
“Matters will come to a head when our thousands of
soldiers return from the war looking for work and
livelihoods. Only civil war can result unless we get
a national Parliament.” Who is this “distinguished
Australian”? He told the newspaper men: “I am
touring the United States on behalf of the Common-
wealth Government and the Government of Queens-
land to secure a supply of rails and rolling-stock for
1600 miles of Australian railroads.” Is this true?
Is it possible any such sapheaded person lias been
sent to represent Australia as a business negotiator?
What sort of tact does a man possess who states
definitely that “civil war is near in Australia. The
differences of the Socialists and the capitalists will
lead to revolution” ? But who is “Mr. F. E. Barbat,”
anyway ?
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 28, 1917.
My Dear Thargo.mindah,—
Their Exes, have been on the move this
week. First, they visited the Show at
Toowoomba; then Lady Gookl-Adams broke
open a fete on behalf of the Y.W.C.A; next,
she put the finishing touches to a tea-party
at Brancepeth. the hospitable home of
Mayor and Mayoress Hetherington. This
party was in honor of Miss Godfrey, of Mel-
bourne, a leading and kindly light in the
Seamen’s Mission.
The Governor filled in part of his time at
the end of the week presiding at an enter-
tainment in Centennial Hall in aid of the
Hamilton branch of the Red Cross Society.
Mrs. Ted Barry and Miss Massey Jackson
were the organisers, and they had all the
help that could be' accepted from generous
amateurs.
Anzac Day saw the town crowded on the
route of the military march. The returned
soldiers were led by the men of the 9th
Battalion, the first Australian unit to re-
ceive its baptism of blood and fire at Galli-
poli. Last year there was a little heart-
burning. The 9th demanded to be at the
head of the column, but they were told by a
shocked official that Light Horse always led.
The argument was settled on this occasion
by the gallant 15th. who refused to fall-in
at all unless their “mates of the 9th” went
in front. So men of these two battalions
headed the advance with representatives of
tlie 2nd and stli Light Horse following.
The G.-G. took the salute at the base in
Market Square; his Ex. Goold-Adams and
her Ex., Mrs. T. J. Ryan, several Ministers
and their wives, the Mayor and Mayoress,
Rrig.-General Irvine and Brig.-General
Foster accompanied him. Over 400 returned
men and 1322 members of the A.I.F.
tramped past.
Four medals were presented by the Gover-
nor-General. L’te. Bernard James Dillon, of
our 9th, received a military medal and a
thunderous ovation. He is a Longreach
man, and obtained his decoration and a
smashed arm at Pozieres.
St. George’s Day (Monday) was another
gold-braid and khaki occasion. At the con-
cert in the Exhibition Hall there was a
record attendance, and amongst the audience
were the two Governors, Lady Goold-Adams,
Premier Ryan and Ms missus, an aide or so.
one Mayor and ever so many real Mackays
in old khaki uniforms. It was a great night.
Atherton, a Royal Flying Corps man and
an old Rockhampton boy, recently fell from
the clouds, or thereabouts. When the
onlookers went along with a broom to sweep
up the pieces all the fragments they could
find belonged to a tooth. However, the doc-
tor said something about shock, and ordered
six months’ leave, much to the bird-man’s
disgust.
Mrs. A. Anderson, the energetic secretary
to the Red Cross Society, has gone into hos-
pital. She has done so much patriotic work
for two years past that the temporary break-
down is understandable.
Another bull’s-eye to the little blind god.
The potted are Lieut. Alex. Russell, only
son of the Russells of Mawallok, Beaufort.
and Jess Fairbairn, a daughter of the squat-
ting Fairbairns, of Logan Downs.
Pianist Lucy Baker (or, rather, Mrs.
Levy, as she has been for some years)
dropped in upon us this week from Singa-
pore. She brought her two babies to inspect
Bananaland.
J. S. Cameron, who owned a collection of
antiques, said to be the finest in Queens-
land, died suddenly on Thursday, aged 54.
His Ex. Mun-Ferguson has taken back
with him to the south about 30 specimens of
Queensland timbers, the beauties of which
he intends to bring to the notice of available
markets. That’s easy. All he has to do, as
you know, my dear, is to label them “Im-
ported,” and the rush of customers will
astonish him.
Died of wounds in France, Lieut. Beau-
mont Bundle, son-in-law of F. D. Needham,
formerly of Canning Downs, and brother of
Mrs. Moncrieff Scott, of Warwick. Deceased
enlisted as a private in the Remount Unit,
then got a commission and joined the artil-
lery. He served in the S'African war,
where his brother, Major Jack, was killed.
At St. Stephen’s Cathedral on Anzac Day
the collection was handed with pleasure to
the Residential Club for Returned Soldiers
and Sailors. The collectors didn't, of course,
shake the plate at the many damaged
Anzacs in the congregation, but at the finish
of the service one boy in khaki marched up
the aisle with a hatful of silver and a
message that he and his mates insisted on
sharing in the good work. Father Coen, who
taught the lesson of the day, is a brother of
Major Fred Coen, recently killed in action,
and Father McKenna, who assisted in the
service, has also lost a brother at the Front.
Lieut. Lloyd, whose father is railway
traffic-manager in this division, has now
gained the Military Cross, and, at the same
time, alas, a wound —dimensions unknown.
The young man who left Australia as Cor-
poral Lloyd served a term at Gallipoli, after-
wards going to France, and began his col-
lection of decorations with the D.C.M. after
Pozieres.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Half-moon”: Ads. in the Queensland
papers proclaim the advantages of employ-
ing the office of the Public Curator instead
of a lawyer to fix up wills, administration
of estates, etc. Here is a sample of its expe-
ditious methods, My father died in May.
1916, with £2OO insurance, practically his
only estate, and leaving his will properly
completed. The beneficiary was his faithful
housekeeper. Almost a year has gone by and
she is still waiting for her money. About
three months after date of death the insur-
ance was claimed by the Curator and, I
presume, duly paid to him. Several letters
written to the office recently anent the
estate have not received the courtesy of a
reply, f thought that the office was created
to simplify legal processes and expedite ad-
ministration matters; but I begin to suspect
that the papers in this case are :enmeshed in
red tape.
Minister for Lands Hunter has a nasty
habit of making people pay their debts to the
Government. The other day he had a squar-
ing-up with the Gregory North Rabbit
Board, with the result that, if all goes well,
the State will benefit to the tune of £23,800.
This Board was established in 1892, and
money was lent to it for the construction of
a rabbit-proof fence. The arrangement was
that the Board was to levy a rate on the
squatters to provide interest and redemp-
tion. The rate struck was not sufficiently
high, and since 1899 no payment has
been made. Under pressure from the Mini-
ster. however, the Board has now agreed to
hand over £2OOO, a year, commencing with a
payment for 1916.
“Auriferous”: Re “Platman’s” story (B.
12/4/T7) of Barclay navigating the Burde-
kin river. I do not believe any one in an
open boat could successfully pass the rapids.
Even supposing you got over the Falls, how
could any human skili steer a boat through
the boiling cauldron and huge granite bould-
ers that infest the river just below the Falls?
Abou t 1885 a to an named Stubley and a
mate took it into their heads that thev could
navigate the Burdekin from Satchell’s 111
miles from Ravenswood) down to the sea.
They were seen passing the junction of the
Suttor in a borrowed boat, but they never
turned up to give a record of the remainder
of their journey.


Unusually comfortable
and roomy, excep-
tionally economical,
beautifully finished —
possessor of the
greatest Australasian
speed and reliability
records, and a name
synonymous with fair
treatment, good ser-
vice and better quality
for more than sixty-
four years.
m
M
h
There’s a Studebaker
dealer near who would
like to demonstrate
Studebaker goodness
to you -
And if you’d rather you
can select your own
specially painted color
tone.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
Showroom:
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
State Importers: VICTORIA—Messrs. TURNER BROS., 398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—THE CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LTD., 95=99 Pultenev Street, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIA—W. GAHAGAN, Collins Street, HOBART; CORRICK’S GARAGE, Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON.
NEW ZEALAND—ADAMS LTD., CHRISTCHURCH.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been triejl bv thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Good let & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
g
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
vour toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
X
sP’n
(/ 'V?
\?9^s
/ ■•■•
I*
• f
X
S 7
r
r\
K
c\\
&
Grammy CHAMBERLAIN
4
When influenza first attacked father we had only been
married a few months and I cannot tell you how I worried. It was a bad attack too. and you
have no idea the physical and mental suffering it caused him or how it defied treatment.
In those days the expense of a doctor’s visit meant a lot to us and I was at a loss
to know just what to do. Then a neighbour told me of Granny Chamberlain and
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
It was wonderful what prompt relief it
gave him, how quick the pain in the chest
disappeared, the fever subsided, and how
it enabled him to rest comfortably.
Since then I have often had occasion to
use Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy for
influenza and have never known it to fail or
any bad after effects when it was used.
Now you can understand why I say it is
my best friend and your best friend.
"Non be sure
you get
Chamberlain's”
a.
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets are a new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Liver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
4
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in ibis Coupon below stating the Class oi Land in which yon
are interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director. Intelligence a Tourist Bureau. Brisbane. Q.
RAZOR'S COME AND RAZORS CO,
but “THE PLUM” endures the test of time and long experience. You can trust
&/>e “PLUM”
the whole year through, for the blade is of unmatched
keenness, and is tempered in such a scientific manner that
it requires but little stropping.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
ns:
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
m
JOt
*\
For Any Kind of Game
there is a REMINGTON-
UMC Cartridge that will 4|
give the surest results.
And this regardless of the
make of your favourite arm.
Secure a new General Catalogue
from your dealer, or, if he can’t
supply you, write us direct for a
free copy. Post free. /,
The Remington Arms
. Union Metallic Cartridge
l Company
I Woolworth Building
A New York, U. S. A.
mm
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia. National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS. ,
"personal attention to nil consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind : they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed:—
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
fdg
Carte®
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS,
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small pin,
Small Dose,
Small Price.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
will restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of liair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a
few days’ time merely by the application
of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from
your chemist two ounces of tammalite con-
centrate and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply this to the hair a few times
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradu-
ally darkening to the desired shade. The
lotion is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and
does not injure the hair in any way. [1
BELLEVUE
The only Hotel
overlooking
HOTEL
the Botanical Gardens
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; i
publicly acknowledged to be the most
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is
personal supervision of the owner, A.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
n fact, it is
refined and
under the
FINN! HAN.
BRISBANE
OLDS
iK. tHE HSitO. «. CttCSr
fdgfdg
m
m
m
lH
I
ms
WHY CATCH COLDS?
Get this Book, and learn how to become hardy.
Write to-day, and enclose
3/6 (Paper Covered), or
4/2 (Board Covered).
POST FREE, to
H. BJELKE-PETERSEN,
School of Physical Culture,
68 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The beautiful
“AMBEROLA”
is a delightful musical instrument that yields
the best of entertainment.
“Amberola” 30, illustrated, is a comparatively
new model, and already extremely popular.
Has a fine appearance and excellent tone;
fitted with the new-style diamond stylus
reproducer (no needles to change); plays
the unwearable Blue Amberol Records.
Price £9/10/-
Ask the nearest Edison dealer for demonstra-
tion, or write direct for illustrated catalog,
post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
, 364-372 Kent .Street, Sydney.
w m
A; /
10
<2
9
8
Westclox
BIG
BEN
7
5
6
Has to bring 15/-
Big Ben tried to
pull through with-
out advancing his
price. The odds
were too great.
Before the first
advance, he placed
advance orders for
material at favourable
prices. The prices he
now pays are double
and treble the old.
He gamely took ad-
vances in freight which
doubled the cost of his
ocean voyage. He paid
higher rates to insure a
safe crossing.
He has made a good fight,
but the last increases are more
than he can overcome.
From now on he costs 15/-.
Big Ben is seven inches tall, well
built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful,deep-toned voice—large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watchlike escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for live minutes or in-
termittently for ten. At all clock dealers.
La Salle, 111, U.S.A. Western Clock Co. Makers of Westclox
OtheriVestclox: Baby Ben, 15]-; America , <5/-/ Sleep Meter, S/6; Boyproof Watch, 6'[6,
The
TEESS,
reg? mark
guarantees
\m
Q u i( if y,
Finish
\^Chamcter
Hats
AND
fdg
Of a/J First-c/ass Ha tiers throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSsC?L TD LONDON ENCLAND
df
Seif-aligning Bali-bearing
Plummer Blocks
return 50%
to 100-1 on
your outlay
Adapter bearing
as used in
Plummer Blocks.
BY
Cutting: your power
bill down
Almost eliminating
lubrication costs—
Doing away with
Attention—
This combination pays the cost of the
S.K.F. installation in from 9 to 18 months,
so is a sound business proposition.
Radial bearing showing
Seif=aligning.
Call and inspect the article itself.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
MELBOURNE: 57 Queen Street: SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street;
BRISBANE: 369 Queen Street,
gdf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin, takes . your fancy,, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Robert Bruce Walker, who defeated
Brinsley Hall for the Hawkesbury seat m
the N.S.W. Assembly, is son ot William
Walker, who represented the same district
from 1860 to 1869 and had a seat in the
Leg. Council from 1887 until Ins death in
1908. His father was a clergyman who
settled at Windsor in 1868, and became a
schoolmaster in the old Hawkesbury town ,
he had come to Sydney the previous year
under the auspices of Dr. Lang. Lhe Jjew
member is connected with some or the oldest
families in Australia, Wm. Walker having
married first in 1803, Mary, daughter ot
Jonathan Hassall, whose ancestor was one
of the missionaries to Tahiti in the seventeen-
nineties.
Most men aren’t much in the swim when
they get to be 80; but Joseph Hatch, who
is mixed up with Macquarie Island and the
penguin-oil business, is right there, lo be
better able to give a hand with his schooner,
the Rachel Cohen, when she goes nosing-
round the Macquaries, he lately put in some
spare time in the summer learning to swim.
Joseph arrived in Melbourne in 1857, but has
put in most of his time at Invercargill
(M.L.). About 10 years-ago he got a lease
of Macquarie Island from the Speck, which
is supposed to own it, and has gone into
the only industry that flourishes there —the
boiling down of the local penguins to get the
oil, which is used in making cordage;
George Fairbairn, who once held the
proud position of member for Faulkner, and
is now standing for the Senate, recently
celebrated his 62nd birthday. But he doesn’t
look within miles of it. Easily the most
ornamental of the four woolly Fairbairn
brothers, he . is “white” every inch of him —
and he owns 74. Mrs. Fairbairn spends
her life in Red Cross work when she isn’t
nursing the new grandson or canvassing.
Some years ago, when daughter Alison
wedded Major Balmain, now fighting in
France, Toorak nearly broke a bloodvessel
with excitement over the marriage with a
cavalryman. The little village was stiff
with arches and flags—its own mother
wouldn’t have known it.
In putting the case for the poorly-paid
fourth and fifth-class women teachers of
Victoria (Parliament has declared that they
must be paid four-fifths of the salaries of
men teachers, but most of them get barely
two-thirds), one speaker at the Teachers’
Conference made a point that should be
thought over. “The women,” she said, “be-
ing patriotic, refused to harass the Govern-
ment during the war. Result—indifference.
The railway men, being unpatriotic, threat-
ened to strike. Result —increased pay.”
Peacock’s quaint Government lately got
busy at “economising” and “increasing pro-
duction” in a new direction when the
Rochester fruit-growers asked to be allowed
to slay ’possums, which have increased under
protection and become a nuisance. Peacock
told Rochester it might destroy ail the ’pos-
sums it could up till June 30,\but it must
on no account sell the skins! Some of these
brilliant wits will presently be telling land-
owners to destroy their rabbits, but to be
sure not to use them as food.
Go to Forbes (N.S.W.) if you want to
keep on paying your life-insurance premiums.
Malo Guihot and his wife lately celebrated
the 70th anniversary of their wedding. Malo.
who is a native of France, is 93, and Eliza-
beth, his wife, who was once Miss Robert-
son, of Crookwell (N.S.W.), is BS. There
are 11 sons and daughters, 58 grandchildren
and 59 great-grandchildren.
“A.H.C.”: The passing of old George
Brown, veteran Methodist missionary, has
touched off a magazine full of reminiscences
concerning the part he played in the sequel
to the massacre of native teachers in New
Britain in ’7B. As a matter of fact, Brown
neither formed nor led the expedition against
cannibal chief Talile and the other mur-
derers ; he simply went with it to do the
best he could to prevent unnecessary blood-
shed. Though punishment was limited to
the murderers, Brown was put on trial
before Chief Justice Gorrv in Fiji, and it
was not the latter’s fault that he was
acquitted. On his return voyage from Fiji,
the John Wesley came near foundering, and
subsequently Brown was invited by a pious
brother to say what his thoughts were on
that occasion. It was an easy one for
Brown. “I thought how glad old Gorry
would be that, whilst lie could not hang me,
Providence had drowned me.”
“X.P.D.” from Salisbury Plain
T don’t know who holds the record for long service
in the Empire’s forces (Active List), hut 1 think
that the tally of a straight-backed member of the
A.I.F. now on duty amidst the slush of an English
winter would take some beating. He joined the
regular army 49 years ago, and is now 62 (they
took them young in the ’6o’s). His ribbons number
one more than Kitchener’s and one lesss than
Itoberts’s (or the other way about), and his decora-
tions include a V.C. and the Star of India. Though
iiis rank now isn’t that of a coloricl, Billjim gener-
ally looks upon him with as much respect as if - he
carried crossed swords.
“Peg-Leg”: T. P. O’Connor, the new
English film censor, wants to see the cinema-
tograph in English schools. Victoria already
has it in nearly all the country schools in
the State. Besides being used for educa-
tional purposes, the cinema frequently lights
np to swell the school funds. The films
shown to the classes are mostly descriptive
of travel and industry. A small machine is
used, and the pictures are obtained from a
film library run by the suppliers of the
instrument.
There are to be some awkward questions
for country candidates at the Vic. State elec-
tions next December, At Benalla the o.ther
day the municipalities which have got to-
gether as the Decentralisation and Country
Development League made themselves a
platform, and one plank includes the reduc-
tion of the Assembly from 65 to 46 members.
They reckon, too, that 26 Leg. Councillors
are enough, that the State could not be any
worse off with five Ministers instead of eight,
and without a State Governor and a lot of
State Parliamentary frippery. Jim Cur-
now and other leading lights in the new
crusade want to see the State Parliament
wiped out altogether, but they reckon that
this is as much as the weaker brethren will
swallow just now.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
•‘THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
AimiNvnientH.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres JLUi.
Governing Director HUGH I). McINTOSH.
I*IVOLI THEATRK, SIDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY’S SMARTEST SHOW.
TIVOLI POLLIES
and
MISS VHRA PEARCE.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
■piYOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
BRILLIANT COMPANY, HEADED BY
MISS ADA REEVE,
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
HE U MAIiST Y’ S. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
Greatest of Pantomime Productions,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
Theatre roy a l, syd n e y
Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON
Direction OSWALD ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The brighest and best Australian Play to Date.
TINKER
(The Grafter’s Mate)
Prices: D.C. and R.S., 4/-; Stalls, 3/*; Early Door
Gallery, 2/-; Late Door, 1/- <plus Tax).
Plan at Paling’s (no booking fee).
Day Sales at Hill’s.
p\l, AC E THEATRE, SYI) XE Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. and N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY CO.
in the
GREAT COMEDY SUCCESS,
TURN TO THU RIGHT.
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Box plans at Nicholson’s.
KINEMACOLOR.
\Ai ADDINGTON’S GRAND THEATRE,
Pitt St., opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
WILLIAM J. SHEPHARD presents
THE WONDERLAND OF NEW ZEALAND
(Under the Auspices of the New Zealand
Government).
Also, RAMBLES AND EVENTS ABROAD.
Drawing crowded houses daily and nightly.
Popular Prices. Plan at Paling’s.
IRT H S ’ NE \V HI PP OD ROME.
HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 o'clock.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and all Holidays.
WIRTHS’ GREAT CIRCUS AND
MENAGERIE OF PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALS.
Book your Reserved Seats at Nicholson's, 0/-
Other seats 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, plus war tax.
Children Half-price, except Gallery.
’Phone 1234 City.
gfd
TKIANGLE plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
Tn GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Saucy and
Piquant Musical Play,
CAN ARY COTTA G E.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
THEATB E R O Y A L, MELIJODIIN K.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 5.
A NOTABLE ENGAGEMENT.
MARIE TEMPEST
PENELOPE.
Prices as usual.
RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
THE FULLER RECORD-BREAKING
PANTOMIME,
THE BIJNYIP.
K
Special Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
ING’S THEATRE, MEL B O TTr NE.
Direction J. Sc N. TATT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY,
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
A RIOT OF LAUGHTE.R.
Produced by BARRY LUPINO.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 6/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
IVJ AJESTIC iHEAIRii
■** F linders St. (near Station), Melbourne.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS,
in his latest Triangle Fine Arts Comedy.
THE MAT I? IMA MAC.
And DOROTHY DALTOM in
FEMALE! OF THE SPECIES.
Matinfies at 2.30. Night at 8.
Amusements.
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
M ELBA
Showing the pick of the world’s best films, in-
cluding the productions of Fox, Vitagraph, World,
Paths, Selznick and Mutual-Chaplin.
BRITANNIA TH EATRE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
gfd
THE “SMITH”
ADTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You’ll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents;—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(N on-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Wov
Woy, N.9.W., Sole Prop**.
PRICE 3/* per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Hotels, Ac.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
i line*. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Quests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two Special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
ih Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
3. URE SMITH. Manager.
n
mm
THE BEST
MOKE
is
Yellow
aster
i* TOBACCO
g
Her Dentist was
Astonished
At the perfect condition of her
teeth. He asked the girl whose
picture you see what dentifrice
she uses.
This, she writes us, was her
answer : "Dr. Lyon’s—it is the
only preparation that gives me
perfect satisfaction.”
Satisfaction like this is pos-
sible for you. Visit your dentist
twice a year, and morning, noon and night
mmm
SuEw Wm
.••T:
th£®
*Pt*-*k.ri#
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
Best of all use both. If a preference exists for the Den-
tal Cream, by all means, use it, but do not overlook
the value of varying the form of the cleanser at sys-
tematic intervals by using the Tooth Powder. This
form of cleanser is super-active and its occasional use
is the only perfect safeguard for the teeth.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S.W.
PSAttgt
? '
i (
AHO PURIWUW
THt Bit
MBCE 25tKS
F'r;- .: ; : w .
K ■ • :
»-
U .
Business Notices.
»
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough —you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Starts
throughout A ustralasia.
fdg
fd
BEFORE.
FOR
QUICK RESULTS'
USE
AFTER
(fIPILLfIRINE
CAPILLARINE is a pure hair-
grower, and never fails to produce
a. strong growth of hair on the
upper lip. Hundreds have proved
its efficacy. Why not send for a
jar to-day ?
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AIfKEN,
-A2NHAS
+S aiuoao fB9
Established over SO years.
a
it
4
Anaemia
C)ur blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia—or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
gdf
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks —
gives a sparkle to the eyes
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis/
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
•wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street- Sydney. N.S.W.


IT’S VERY EASY
TO GET RID OF
SKIN TROUBLES
With CUTICURA
■°<s
Bathe with
Soap,
dry and
apply the
Ointment
Stops itching instantly/clears away
pimples, redness and roughness, re-
moves dandruff and scalp irritation,
heals red, rough and sore hands as
well as most baby humors. You need
not buy them until you try them.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post'
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE 3
&>£CtAUSE
rwo
2t/A/ES
s
0
KIRT 5
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The.STRAND
520 GEORGES 1 " SYDNEY
Zf /iO/MTER S T NEWCASTLE
I
m
1
i i
■
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
EIEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
1
w
i
ELEY Grand Prix’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
g
EIEY
-450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
mm
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L° LONDON
THE ROYAL BANK of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FIFTY-EIGHTH REPORT.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 27th April, 1917.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the annexed Balance-sheet and Statement
of Accounts for the Half-year ending 31st March, duly audited and certified.
The profits, after providing for a bonus to the staff, amount to £22,164 8 1
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.:—
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum .. . . .. .. £l2 000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £270,000) .. .. .. .. ’. io’ooo 0 0
And to add to the amount carried forward from last balance .. !! . ! 164 8 1
„ . . , , , £22,164 8 1
The Balance carried forward from last Half-year, £7991/8/3, will thus be increased to £8155/16/4.
By order of the Board. H. T. WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITER
For the Half-year ending 31st March, 1917, including London Branch figures to 10th February, 1917.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-000,000 Shares
of £4 each ..£2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed—-
300,000 Shares,
of £4 each .. £1,200,000
0 0
To Capital Paid-up £300,000 0
To Reserve Fund 260,000 0
To Profit and Loss
Account . . 30,155 16
To Notes in Circulation ..
To Bills in Circulation ..
To Government De-
posits—
Not bearing In-
terest .. . . £47,212 15
Bearing Interest 563,941 1
To Other Deposits—Rebate
Interest accrued—
Not bearing In-
terest . . £1,076,734 4
Bearing Interest 983,357 8
and
To Balances due to other Banks..
£590,155 16
880 0
250,769 13
To Contingent Liabilities as per
Contra
611,153 17 1
2,060,091 13
11,812 13
£3,524,863 13 7
360,093 0 0
£3,884,956 13 7
ASSETS.
Or.
By Coin, Bullion,
Australian Notes,
a ikl Cash at
Bankers . . £829,838 18 4
By Notes and Bills
of other Banks 14,981 17 4
By Balances due
from other Banks 3,568 12 7
By Bills and Remit-
tances in transit,
and payable in
London .. 490,403 7 C
By Got ernment,
Municipal an d
other Public
Stocks, Deben-
tures and Funds 138,140 G 8
By stamps .. 977 10 8
• £1,477,910 13
By Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank Premises .. .. .. 80,000 0
By Bills Discounted and other Ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts . . 1,963,483 0
By Bank Furniture, Fittings, Sta-
tionery, etc. .. .. .. 3,470 0
£3,524,803 13
By Liabilities and Securities of Cus-
tomers and others in respect of
Contingent Liabilities, as per
Contra 360,093 0
£3,884,956 13
1
0
0
0
0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Rent, Income and Land
Taxes, and other charges .. ..£20,70S 15 0
To Balance .. .. .. 30,155 Hi 4
£50,864 11 4
By Balance at 30th September, 1916.. £27,491 S 3
Less Dividend declared
27th October . . £12,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund . . .. 7,500 0 0
• 19,500 0 0
By Balance carried down .. . . £7,991 S 3
By Profits for the half-year after de-
ducting Interest accrued on Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Current, less Re-
serves for Bad and Doubtful Debts 42,873 3 1
£50,864 11 4
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
..£260,000 0 0
£260,000 0 0
By Balance at 30th September, 1916.. £252,500 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account .. . . .. • • 7,500 0 0
£260,000 0 r
I, Hugh Thurburn Wilson, General Manager of the Royal Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly
and sincerely declare: —
That th£ Reserve Fund Account, amounting to £260,000, and the accumulated profits, amounting
to £30,155/16/4, are used in the business.
That the accompanying Statement and Balance-sheet of the Bank is to the best of my knowledge
and belief true in every particular.
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date of
the statement: —Randal James Alcock, J.P., merchant, Melbourne; Honorable Sir William H. Irvine, K.C.,
M.H.R., barrister, Melbourne; William George Sharp, gentleman, Melbourne; Alexander Macneil,
merchant, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration
punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 17th day of April, one thousand nine hundred
and seventeen. Before me, B. H. Alston, J.P. H. T. WILSON.
We certify that we have audited the above balance-sheet, and that the same is correct; that we have
not observed nor become acquainted during the audit with any breach of the “Companies Acts’’ committed
by the Company, or any Director, Manager or Employee thereof; and that all our requisitions as
auditors, including those with regard to the private balance-sheet, have been complied with.
Melbourne, 18th April, 1917. THOMAS KIDD, F.S.A.A., Eng. 1 » 1H
ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.I.A.V. / ' u 110 '
We, Randal James Alcock and William George Sharp, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Royal
Bank of Australia Limited, do hereby certify that, in our opinion, the above Balance-sheet is correct,
and is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view pf the state of the company’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 18th day of April, 1917. R. J. ALCOCK n . ,
Witness—A. J. Shepherd. W. G. SHARP
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
To the Shareholders of The Royal Bank of Australia Limited. Melbourne, 18th April, 1917.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —We report that we have audited the Books and Accounts of your Bank for
the Half-year ending 31st March, 1917, and that so far as we are in a position to form an opinion,
from the information and explanations which we h ive required, the Balance-sheet and Accounts have
been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the “Companies Acts,” and present a true and
correct view of the state of its affairs as shown by the books at that date. The Assets and Liabilities
at the Branches are taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants. The figures shown in
the Statement of the London Branch have been certified to by Messrs. Robertson, Lawson and Co., the
auditors of the branch.
THOMAS KIDD, F.S.A.A., Eng. I
ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.I.A.V. f
Auditors.
iZacemici
THE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia—girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron 'Jelloids' to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome—the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
® r - Andrew Wilson wrote :—“ 1 miroverished blood can be made rich and good
oy means of Iron ‘ Jello.ds ,’ the most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON ’JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by Thb Jelloid' Co.. 205. City Road. London. England.
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds )
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES DTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
The Inky Way.
On the principle that under Argus man-
agement the heaviest rise to the top, John
Mackintosh succeeds the late E. T. Fricker
as editor of the Australasian. Mackintosh
is a youthful-looking and benign colossus
whose speech and writings are in keeping
with his fruity voice and ripe conservative
view's. He is well over six feet in height,
and built in proportion. Before joining the
Argus as one of the leader-writing staff
some seven years ago, he was on the Inky
Way in the West. From the caligraphic
point of view his copy is excellent, and, no
doubt, now that he leaves the direct tutelage
of Argus editor Cunningham to edit on his
own. it can be trusted not to pledge the
Australasian to free love, sharing out,
voting for Frank Tudor, and similar devices
of the Evil One. Mackintosh is barely 40.
* * * *
“Segundo”: It was in the days when edi-
tor Cunningham, of the Argus, had just
returned from England and the Press Con-
ference, bringing with him his honorary
“Litt.D.” By-and-bye it began to seep
and percolate through the office that he
was to be addressed as “Doctor.” Now,
standing in a certain position on the oppo-
site side of Collins-street, and looking up
to the Argus first floor, one can see Cun-
ningham at the anvil where he forges the
fetters —no, that’s not right—at the shrine
where he tends the ancient light of Con-
servatism. One who knew him, standing
in the position hereinbefore mentioned, and
catching sight of the ponderous editorial
brow, remarked to the friend whom he was
showing the sights: “And there’s the prin-
cipal Collins-street Doctor —writing out
prescriptions which no one ever takes.”
“ J.G.”: What is the longest Australian
newspaper title? I nominate the Eltiiam
AND WHITTLESEA SHIRES ADVERTISER AND
Diamond Creek Valley Advocate, late
The Evelyn Observer, printed at Hurst
Bridge, Victoria. The top-heavy weekly was
first published in the bush at Kangaroo
Grounds in ’72, and stayed there modestly as
the Evelyn Observer till the other day,
when the plant was removed to Hurst Bridge.
When new r s is scarce the whiskered sub-
scribers get their money’s worth by reading
the new title.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang” (London) ; “Inside” jour-
nalists have been watching with the greatest
interest a duel between Reuter’s and the
organisation known as Wireless Press.
Wireless has advantages in the matter of
speed, and of late has been an easy first in
landing most of the daily communiques,
especially the Russian and Roumanian. But
it can’t yet reach the old standard of accu-
racy.
* * * *
A suggestion that interviews are not
always printed as written has given Judge
Darling, the comic-relief of the English
Bench, a chance for a cut at the Bar. “If
I were a journalist, and I wrote one thing
and the newspapers printed another, I should
resign. In the same way, if I passed sen-
tence of death on a prisoner, and the sheriff
went and hanged the counsel, I should
resign—if it happened often.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Though Melbourne and Syd-
ney have claimed just-dead T. W. Harris
for the past 30 years, he is well remembered
by the older generation of Adelaide journal-
ists. He arrived here from England as a
small boy in ISSO, and was commercial
reporter on the Register— with the job also
of sending _ wires to the Argus and S. M.
Herald— .till commerce tempted him away
in 1886.
** t « »
Gladesville (Sydney) Mental Hospital has
got a new paper in place of the Gladesville
Gossip, which went out when the patient
who ran it left the institution five years
ago. The new sheet is called the Tarban
Trumpet —Tarban Creek was Gladesville’s
original name. The versatile inmate who
does the writing, typesetting, editing and
printing covers a wide range from comments
upon the war to items of personal and local
importance.
“Rustler”: Severely wounded in action,
Jack Craig, editor and proprietor of the
Wedderburn (Vic.) Express. Although
badly damaged about the head he hopes to
have another slap at the Huns before again
taking over the management of his paper
from the voluntary committee of townspeople
who are at present running the show.
,** * *
Norman Malcolm, who was on Adelaide
Register before he went to the war, has
found his 16 stone unsuited to Egyptian
deserts, and is back in Adelaide recuperat-
ing. Malcolm, who draws a captain’s, screw,
learned the fighting business in S’Afriea.
Since that scramble he has collected his cash
in many nets. In Westralia he was stock-
inspector ; when that game lost its charm
he went to Adelaide prospecting for para-
graphs.
MY MUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My muse is a minx with a spell for a smile.
She gallops a waggon of whims through the skies,
And teasings capricious and pranks all the while
She pours upon me who would sing to her eyes.
She coaxes me on like a siren at play,
Then leaves me alone with a shadow to doze.
As faithless as Venus, she flits with a fay,
Or marries her moods to the rim of a rose.
I went to her house and I opened the door
To peep at the exquisite corridors there,
And thousands of dreams that were strewing the floor
Cried “Constancy only can win the most fair.”
And so on'her lily-white doorstep I wait,
Or wander away with my lover in glee.
Now faithful, now fickle I toy with my Fate,
For I am a maiden as wilful as she.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS


/C t
Hi
%
Mother and Child
Baby 6% months.
Fed from birth on the ‘Allenburjjs*
Scads.
Are you Worried about Baby ?
HOWto feed Baby is often a great worry to
mothers who are unable to nurse their
babies themselves. Ordinary cow’s milk —
however prepared at home —is not a suitable
substitute for the mother’s milk. It is acid in
reaction, contains harmful germs and forms
dense curds in the stomach that cannot be
digested. Decide to use the ‘Allenburys’ Fcods
which are the only series of Foods scientifically
adapted to the growing requirements of the
child. You will be delighted when you see
how well your baby thrives on this Method of
Infant Feeding. The ‘Allenburys’ Foods are free
from all dangerous organisms; they are portable,
being in powder form and packed in sealed tins.
The Milk Foods Nos. 1. and 2 require the addition
of hot water only to prepare them for use.
A PURE. COMPLETE AND PROGRESSIVE DIETARY.
‘ailcnburys’Faods
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
I From birth to 3 months From 3to 7 months From 7 months upwards
Unsolicited Testimony.
A Mother in South Australia writes:
Sirs,
“1 see by your circulars you have pamphlets on infants feeding and
management. Kindly send me one, it may prove very helpful now or
in the future. I have a beautiful boy fed on your foods since infancy,
we tried other foods (not knowing of yours) and they almost killed
him, he became so thin and old looking that I felt compelled to have
the doctor’s advice. Directly he saw the child he said he was being
starved, he was nothing but hone ; he told me to try Allen & Hanbury’s
foods and see how they would act, I did so with a marvellous result,
in a week there was a big change, he is now eleven months old and
such a big boy— not flabby fat but proportionate. He is just starting
to walk and has eight teeth so you see his illness has not made him
backward. I feel I cannot say enough for your foods and advertise
them all I can. Trusting you will send the pamphlet I asked for,"
Yours ever grateful,
Mrs. H. Pearson.
A Doctor In New Zealand writes:
Gentlemen,
“It may interest you to know that your Infants Foods are largely
prescribed by us out here and are found to fulfil all they promise
to do. I find the No. i Food most invaluable. The young mother of
to-day seems quite unable to nurse her offspring.”
I am, faithfully yours,
Doctor H. D.
jPT“ Write for free book “ Infant FeedSng and Management”
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St.. Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
ain~*eed
>
Certain teed
Contractors Know That
Certain-teed
Roofing is water-tight and weather-proof.
That it is impervious to the action of heat or cold, of
rain or atmospheric gases. And that it will not
buckle nor blister, crack nor creep!
You should know more about Certain-teed
—made by the world’s largest manufacturer of roofings
and building paper materials. Our local representa-
tive will gladly supply free samples and literature—and
Sj the name of your nearest distributor. Write, today.
Mr. C. C. McCann, Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Company
Perpetual Trustee Building, Sydney, N. S. W,
MILLS IN U. S. A.: East St. Louis, Illinois, Marseilles, Illinois;
York, Pennsylvania; San Francisco, California
LONDON OFFICE: Imperial House, Kingsway, London, W.C.
Distributors: John Danks Idd., Sydney & Melbourne;
Jas. Campbell & Sons Dtd., Brisbane; Harris, Searfe & Co., Adelaide.
'isnmsuaJi
HI
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing„
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
fdg
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
British Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
824. Boswells High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, “The Reliable,”
12-gauge, top lever, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side clips, Greener X
Holt, chambered for 2£ cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately
engraved; weight about 71b. soz Delivered
£,17/10/-
fd
ďf
Send for our new edition
(B 1) Firearms and Sport-
ing Catalogue. Post Free.
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.L. Gun,
*°P J ever > bar action, 30in. real twist or steel barrels,
cross-bolt, both choke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
ho?,“ D f el : e ? to f 2^ln - cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
uair-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from 711 b. to Till). Delivered
£.7/10
WE REPAIR GUNS and
RIFLES.
“SWEET CROP”
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 6/-, post
free.
gfd
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-incli steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol
nut stock; weight about 71b
grip, wal-
Delivered
£B/7/6
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels
Delivered £B/12/6
gfd
*SiS Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of
7-Jib.; of 16-gauge, about 611 b
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge,
12-gauge about
Delivered
30in. barrels, 7/6
£5/5/-
extra.
gdfgfd
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
817. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.1i. Pigeon
Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel 32-incli barrels
both choke. Greener cross-bolt, high file-cut ri’b, pistol-grip. ’ chambered for
2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 7ilb. Delivered.^.*7
We can supply the above gun in 16-gauge. Delivered, £7/10/-
as
Durham Duplex Safety Razor,
complete with six blades 6/6,
_____ post free.
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in.
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 71b
Postage on one Gun —2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State.
steel barrels,
45/-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gfd
gauge, top action,
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, &Uin. pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 6Jlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
b»-Non-Ejector, 22/0 ; 82-Auto-Ejector, 25/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4,19, T nt.pr-Stat.p-
ac
mSTRALIriS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
and TOBACCONISTS
13
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane


A Sydney Beauty
Praises REXONA
Miss FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE
( from, a Lafayette photo.).
Miss FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE
is one of Sydney’s most famous
beauties. Patrons of avt have long
held her in the highest esteem. This
young lady, in the following letter,
tells how she preserves her health and
beauty by the use of Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap.
“After surfing I find for
sunburn and insect bites a
very ‘sure’ and ready healer
in your Rexona Ointment. I
always carry a tin with me
on. my travels. It never
fails in its mission, and for
pimples, irritations, chapped
hands, or sore lips in fact,
all complaints of the skin, a
little application gives imme-
diate relief.
“I have been using your Rexona Soap for the last 12 months, and,
having given it a fair trial, I feel .justified in writing you its praises.
“It is so refreshing, and contains many good qualities that I have
failed to find in other soaps.
“It relieves all irritations and banishes all blemishes on the skin.
For those who want a good, clear and healthy complexion and skin,
my advice is ‘Use Rexona Soap.’ “Verv sincerely
“(Sgd.) FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE.”
Try the
REXONA
REMEDIES.
They consist of Rexona,
the Rapid Healer, and
Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap, both universal favorites. The
wonderful healing- powers of Rexona
have made it a password in nearly
every home in Australia. Rexona
Soap is the best preservative for the
skin and hair that is obtainable,
and leaves the hair soft, flufl'y and
luxuriant. Try the Rexona Reme-
dies yourself, and prove our words.
Rexona, 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap,
1/- per tablet.
'// SootK.A,
AnHfttphc Oinfmy
p y r«N« 3 j*
t J Rei»abi»
%uy>
**'" e.C>»Wu^o-. |> n. Vi -> t>t />v .
Cleans
SKIN & .-fcCiau
F=
"=0
□
m
<©■
<^s>s
REXONA
1/6 & 3 -
REXONA
SOAP
11- tablet.
Tiiiiiiiiiini" mwiiiii
A Breakfast
That Needs
No Cooking;.
“I've discovered the perfect breakfast dish put up
in cans,” said a bright little woman to her friend.
Her discovery was
Rex Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Get a tin of this wholesome, tasty food to-day and see how
quickly a tine, appetising breakfast can be prepared. “Rex”
Lorraine Sausages owe their delicious flavor to the perfect
Rex method of smoking and seasoning. They are packed in a
rich jelly. To serve hot, simply immerse the tin in boiling water
for 20 minutes, or if preferred you may empty sausages into
frying-pan and heat for a few minutes.
“Rex” Pork Sausage
ftt
is tlie ideal emer-
gency ration. Send
a tin in your sol-
diers’ parcels. They
only require heat-
ing.
KKEESfE
Another fav -
ite in the
trenches and at
home is
“Rex” Luncheon Cheesr.
The “Rex” Canned Delicacies include
“Bex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb.
tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly,
111 b anil 21b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie in Jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese in soz.
decorated tins, and soz.
enamel jars.
Also “Rex” Lard for cooking
purposes, lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams & Bacon; Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
The Dark Ladye.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A GREY moth fluttered, muffling through
the gloom,
Save which n'o other sound there
was at all;
A grey moth fluttered and then all was still.
In twilit wonder, scarce mine eyes had skill
To pierce the distant darkness, whence the
fall
Of Her slow treading footsteps told the doom
That I so feared and longed £or was at hand.
Again the grey moth fluttered and was gone;
So did I wait Her coming and alone, v
lu this mad, magic, dream-enamored land.
"All will be well,” I murmured to my heart:
"Be brave and cling with love unto thy fear,
As zest alike to gift of boon or bane!”
And yet I trembled, murmuring. Again
I heard Her footfall as She came more near,
While all the mystic darkness seemed a part
Of this Her coming, only that Her eyes
Now looked upon me with a holy gaze
As made me kneel obeisant, so to praise
The peace that dwelt within them, angel-
wise.
And then She came towards me, and I felt
A hand laid on my head and heard a voice
Soft, mellow-throated, saying to me, “Rise,
Who loves me truly loves for aye and dies.
Behold the Bride who waits thee of thy
choice!”
Yet, craven fear upon me, still I knelt
And dared not do the thing She bade me do,
Spurning Her gift, unworthily afraid.
I heard Her walking from me down the
glade,
And, with Her going, peace went from me
too.
Whel'e, earlier had been darkness now was
light,
Where earlier had been silence now was
sound,
And where was peace was torment now in-
stead.
A million demons gibbered in my head,
And, yelling, whirled about me and around,
Nor stilled them.once nor granted me respite.
And what a light! Vermilion clotted suns
That swelled and heaved and, overbloated,
burst,
Were teeming near me, till the air accurst
Stank and w r as thick with blood and foam
at once.
Then One whose flesh but hung in tattered
strips
Upon her creaking bones beside me sat.
Grinned in my face and chucked me on the
chin,
Declaring as She did so, mid the din
Of screaming rabble round us, “I am That
Who made thee fear the bridal!” and Her
lips
Cracked as She said it, “I am Fear-of-Deatli!
The charnel Thing that makes a people fear
That Other’s- footstep when She wanders
near!”
She disappeared and then I drew my breath.
The darkness came again and still I knelt.
The air was sweet and holy, and a voice
Soft, mellow-throated, said unto me, “Rise,
Who loves me truly loves for aye and dies.
Behold the Bride who waits thee of thy
choice!”
No fear was on me, peace was all I felt:
Then I arose and took Her by the hand.
A grey moth fluttered by us and was gone
And only She and I were there alone,
In that mad, magic, dream-enamored land.
JIAOBILA^D.
BERNARD INGLERT.
The Lease.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE some pity for landlords, especi-
ally my own landlords. I’ve had quite
a number of them who needed it. They
were people with a bad habit of calling on
Monday morning for the rent, as if they
expected to get it. Some landlords don’t
call. I have known those who have, instead,
sent men—disreputable-looking men. But
even those landlords who don’t call or send
seem to expect their rent just the same.
Hope is a wonderful thing, and expectation
is a large edition de luxe of hope.
The landlords who deserve the most pity
are those who possess the very little pro-
perty which, apparently, they regard as a
dangerous thing; say, one cottage besides
the humpy they are living in. It gives them
so much anxiety that it would be very much
better for them if they hadn’t got it. When
it is empty they worry about the rates and
taxes; when it is occupied they are terribly
afraid that the tenants will knock it down
with a tack-hammer ; and when the tenants
move they rush round frantically to make
sure that the carriers haven’t taken the
house with the furniture.
I had an office once next to a house and
estate agent who had one ewe-lamb house of
his own. He advertised that it was to let,
giving tlie neighborhood and the rent —a
very cheap rent for a close-to-the-city house
—and he wanted a “selected tenant.” I
didn’t know this until I arrived in the morn-
ing and found the stairs and the landings
crowded with people. Some of them had
brought their breakfast, in order to be in
time. They rushed me when I approached,
and that is how I learnt about the advt.
Later, when the real landlord came, I heard
sounds of great anger outside my door. The
applicants for the house went in one by one,
and passed out breathing anger. One of them
came into my room to let me know what he
thought of my neighbors, and others stood in
the doorway, listening, and approved. It
appeared that the house-owner was particu-
larly careful about the “selected tenant.” He
took names and addresses, and the names
and addresses of previous landlords, and
inspected rent receipts; but not even the
bribe of a month’s rent in advance would
tempt him to let the place until he had com-
municated with the previous landlords, and
ascertained all about the morals and disposi-
tion of the would-be tenant. One angry
woman snorted: “Wonder he didn't ask to
see me marriage-lines!”
He got his tenant, of course. Also, a few
weeks later, he got a bailiff. I noticed the
shabby, beery-lookifig individual coming in
every morning; and, one day, when my neigh-
bor’s door was locked, he confided to me that
he was trying, without success, to effect an
entrance into the recently-let property, and
had to report every day. Finally, he re-
ported that he had got in and taken posses-
sion of the blinds left on the windows. Care-
ful selection, apparently, is not always as
successful as it should be.
Once I had a landlord who lived next door
to his one letting property. He told me in
an impressive way that an M.P. lived across
the street, next to Blinks, the big softgoods
merchant, and that Alderman Smith resided
on the pther side of the cottage; and he
charged all these things in the rent. He
seemed grieved to hear that I had several
children, but he overlooked it; and he asked
me if I was prepared to sign a lease for
twelve months. The light fashion in which
I assented appeared to grieve him; and he
insisted on reading the document to me
before I signed it. Then he carried his copy
reverently to the safe, and seemed upset at
the offhand manner in which I folded mine
and put it in my pocket.
When the furniture arrived he was on the
spot advising the vanman how to get it in
without scratching the doors. This seemed to
spur the carters to greater efforts, which
wouldn’t have mattered so much only it was
my furniture.
His troubles didn’t cease when the van-
men had gone, because about that time I
started putting up the blinds. It’s a job I
tire of, and when I was Weary of turning
screws I put the fixtures up with nails for
a change. I hadn’t been engaged at the
hammering for long, however, before the
landlord came running in with a gimlet and
screwdriver. He seemed to doubt my word
when I said I had some, and insisted on
leaving his. Later, when the hammering
continued, he called in twice to ask ner-
vously if he could be of any assistance. Even
after that I could see him, with the light at
the back of him, peering anxiously through
the slats of his blinds. I had finished the
curtain-fixing, but now and again, in a spare
moment, I knocked the hammer against the
window-frame just to see the effect. It was
a sport that lasted for several nights.
When I came home next night my wife
said that she was sure the place would not
suit us. I reminded her that a week before
she had been sure that it would suit us, and,
anyway, I had signed a lease; but she said
that previously she had not known that the
landlord was one of the fixtures. It appears
that he called in shortly after I left to re-
mark that young Hamer was using the
pieces of asphalt, where it was broken, as
coal for his trains ; and since then he had
been in half a dozen times, ostensibly to see
what needed to be done to the copper, but
really because he heard hammering in the
kitchen, or because he heard nothing and
wanted to see what it was all about. Later
on he called in to see me, and made, in an
apologetic way, seven complaints about (1)
the children, (2) the dog, (3) the girl, and
(4 to 7) generally.
As days went on my wife became more
convinced that the place would not suit us.
She said that the landlord was a nuisance,
and wasn’t a bit mollified when I told her
I would get the Council’s officer down to in-
spect him and see if he could not be removed.
She declared that, lease or no lease, she was
not going to live in a place where a Jack-in-
the-box lived next door, and his face
appeared over the fence every time the slight-
est noise occurred to see which part. of the
house was being knocked down. She had
choked him off the habit of coming in so
freouently by asking him, one morning, if
he had not better stay to lunch; it would
save him the trouble of coming back after-
wards. My wife can be sarcastic, some-
times. I know. She told me when I came
home one morning, certainly not later than
four, that breakfast was late that morning,
as she had been too tired to wake the girl.
On Sunday I prepared to lay out my
vegetable garden. I have seldom eaten any
vegetables grown by myself, but that is
because I move. I have no doubt other
people have eaten them ; and I like a kitchen
garden. As I prepared the first bed the face
looked over the fence before I was ready
with anything to throw, and said it was
Sunday.
“I know,” I said shortly.
“What are you going to do?” asked y
landlord.
“Lay out a vegetable garden,” I answered.
“You can’t do it!” he protested.
“I can,” I retorted. “I’ve done it, often.”
“But your lease says you can’t. You are
not to remove any of the shrubs or plants in
the garden.”
“I’m not going to remove them,” I said,
“just put them in another place—in a heap
at the end of the garden.”
He groaned, and disappeared; but
shortly was back again, with his lease, and
'he insisted upon reading it over to me. He
seemed ridiculously like a parson reading the
lesson for the day. He was quite reverential
over it. I went on digging, and said
“Amen” at the end of it.
“So you see you can’t change the garden
without my consent,” he said.
“So yon see I can!” I retorted, still
digging.
“The lease says you can't.”
I thought he was going to read it again.
“If I can’t do what I like with my own
garden, I’ll find another house,” I said.
“You can’t. The lease is for twelve
months,” he answered.
“Then, if you object to me doing as I
like here,” I said, “cancel the lease.”
“No,” he answered. “I don’t want to do
anything unpleasant, but if you spoil the
garden I will sue you on the terms of the
lease. Listen!”
And he did start to re-read the lease. I
went inside and left him at it. ,
That evening I agreed with my wife that
the house would not suit us, and I went in
to see my landlord, after tea. and said so.
(Continued on next page.)


RINGWORM
SKIN
SCALP SORES
AND KINDRED “CATCHING
TROUBLES.
TREAT Ringworm, Eczema,
Scalp Sores and Honey
Scab with Zam-Buk
immediately the first
itching spot or pimple appears.
As Zam-Buk’s splendid record proves,
even most obstinate cases that have
defied prolonged medical treatment
yield to this great disease-dispelling balm.
Zam-Buk first brings soothihg and speedy
relief to the raw, itchy skin surface, and _
.then, by penetrating to the root of the trouble, kills
the disease parasites and causes the disfiguring patches
to die away. Mothers say that occasional shampoos
with Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap are splendid for warding
off disease and keeping a child’s skin and scalp in a
sweet, healthy state. Beware of aggravating the trouble
by the use of coarse, impure ointments and imitations.
Times out of number, when Doctors said the X-Rays were
the only remedy, Zam-Buk has been tried with the most
successful and happiest results.
»»
gfdgfd
Schoolgirl’s Scalp Trouble Cured.
MISS R. KELLY. 91 Thomas Street, Ultimo, Sydney, says:—“When about
13 years of age I suffered long and painful disfigurement from a severe
outbreak of scalp eczema. The disease first appeared in the form of a
small swelling, which itched intensely. The fiery irritation made sleep impossible,
for I used to lie awake at night rubbing and scratching away at my itchy skin.
“Eventually the eczema spread all over my head and developed to such a
shocking extent that I had to leave school. Whilst at home I was carefully
treated with all kinds of remedies, but six months elapsed before the disease was
got underhand. ' . '
“Upon hearing good reports about Zam-Buk it was decided to try the
treatment. When I saw the great improvement that Zam-Buk effected, and how
it was gradually causing the disease to die away, 1 eagerly continued the treat-
ment. This perseverance was splendidly rewarded when Zam-Buk finally cleared
away the last traces of my terrible disfigurement.”
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Cuts, Bruises, Burns, Scalds, Abrasions, Boils, Eczema,
Pimples, Sores, Scalp Diseases, Poisoned Wounds, Bad Legs, Ulcers, Abscesses,
Ringworm, Teething Sores, Barber’s Rash, Stiffness, Itch, Pace Sores, Sore Dips, and
injured and diseased conditions of the skin. Zam-Buk is obtainable from all Chemists
and Stores at 1/6 per pot, and 3/6 family size (containing nearly four times the 1/6
pot), or from C. E. FULPORD LTD., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
gfd
1/6 and
3/6 per pot.
4
1
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “ 7 o’clock ”
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask. your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, let D.C.L.L, writes: Price in Australia...
“Up to the time of first using a“7 o'clock ” Price in New Zealand
Safety Razor out here shaving was a task
to he avoided. Now it is a delight. "
12/6
13/0 J
“ 7 O’CLOCK ” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by If in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia.
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia.
gfdgfd
He said that he did not like to talk busi-
ness on Sunday, but if I liked to leave the
next week s rent, as I was there, I could do
so. In any case, the lease set out a twelve
months tenancy, from which he would not
letease me. He wanted to read me the lease
aga y? -
\ ery well, then,” I said.
tes ext week I laid in a stock of sapling
stakes and wire-netting, and let them rest
ostentatiously on the lawn. My landlord,
according to my wife, used to pause and look
.them about twenty times a day; but my
, had reached that stage at which she
■would not speak to him. At last he asked
£or *.
£ 'i,n' 11 ' C ' nett i n . 8 ' I s for , the
t r i’ a ( \. t ie s . takes a } e J- or tke snakes
f J Z i m gomg L to "Sthem up in one
L fT loom ®T7% sitting-room It’s
m< h e aad a^V vll L do splendidly.”
“nil 1 V Cl r e i ’. » ? Uie -J na£ m, T ,
• G \ y e |> splendidly, I said. llien I m
® g hx-up * le ot ber front room as a
s°i °t auarj.
But you can t! ’ he gasped.
“There’s nothing in the lease against
that, ’ I said. "I m not going to move any
fixtures; the chandeliers will make splendid
perches. And these saplings will just fit in
between the floor and the ceiling, and will
come down easily afterwards.”
‘ But you H spod the rooms. Snakes and
’ . ■
Oh, they make a bit of a mess of a place,
certainly,’ I admitted, “but most of it can
be cleaned up afterwards. I’ve got some of
the snakes inside in boxes. Will you come
m and see them l .
. didn t want to; and, after arguing
tearfully with me, and asking me it I
couldn t do with just the vegetable garden,
it he agreed to that, and finding me obdurate,
he went away in a despairing manner.
Later, I saw him reading Ins lease as he
paced the garden. I knew he wanted to
read it to me not because it prohibited
snake-keeping—he had not thought of that
—but on general principles
The next morning as I was leaving, I
called back to my wife.
Look, Ethel, keep those children from
pencilling on the walls to-day, if you can.
The walls are disgraceful.”
I saw a head jerk m a startled fashion on
the othei side of the fence, and felt cei-
e ard a groan.
“You can’t expect me, with only one girl,
to be watching the children all day,” re-
turned Ethel. I smacked Hamer for chip-
ping the mantelpiece with the chisel but
'&*
Ivihv did it”
: T . ,
I m certain I heard groans.
I m going to fix up the room for the
snakes to-night, I called back as I bolted
to ™ SS *? y train.
When I got borne my wife showed me a
notice to quit. She said the landloid me
come in wanting to inspect the house but
she had refused to allow, linn in. I w
and saw him, telling him fete ■lyt at j
tense was for twelve months I offered to
read it to him. I said that bj g g
to quit he had forfeited all claim to lent
but flnaHy, I consented to the cancellation
° Having seemingly resigned himself to the
hopeless damage of the property, my land-
lord did not trouble us again ; but upon the
day we moved he hovered round, endeavor-
ing to get an opportunity to inspect the
house before we left and assess the damage,
The manner in which I forbade him to
enter excited his worst fears, and he was
nearly frantic by the time the last van was
loaded and the girl had put aboard th<T
broom and bucket she had just been using.
He seized the keys with trembling eagerness
and rushed into'the house.
“You wait till I’ve seen what harm has
been done.” he called out in a sort of frenzy.
I didn’t; but as I walked away I turned
back and saw him looking with dazed sad-
A , &
lie The house had been swept and garnished
throughout, its walls bore not a mark or
stain—it was actually in a better state than
when I went in In fact, I had been a good
tenant—and it was he who had cancelled
the lease'
I think it broke his heart
But he recovered ‘ sufficiently in a few
days to write mo a letter saying that a
stopper from the kitchen sink was missing
and unless it was replaced he would place
the matter in the hands of his solicitor.
HAMER.
The Concerto in E-fiat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAHLBERG’S recollection was both
distinct and vivid. Damn that offi-
cious clod of a conductor, and curse
that infernal first movement with its tempo
ffuisto! On no less than four occasion's dur-
ing the rehearsal had Kestor the Omnisci-
ent assured him that if his execution did not
improve his hard-won reputation Avas
as good as buried. In spite of his sup-
pressed anger Fahlberg was subconsciously
aware of a • defect in himself which re-
fused to be localised. Through some
obscure cause his fingers seemed to have
been recently toughened, and their supple-
ness destroyed as though by hard manual
labor, and his mind was positively torpid.
During the last interval he tried to reason
out this peculiar feeling of mental and
physical deterioration. He observed that
the electric radiance which usually enveloped
the platform in a harsh yellow glare was
replaced by a kind of nebulous greyness
which came from overhead. Then he real-
ised that the greyness Avas merely the day-
light entering through the opened roof. He
could hear a muffled but persistent, roaring
Avhich seemed to be sweeping round jthe
exterior of the concert hall in stormy gusts.
He suddenly stared and listened; for the
twilit hall was being gradually filled with
strange shadowy figures moving away from
the platform towards the distant obscurity
of the main entrance, and every figure seemed
to call to him. He watched in astonishment.
The forms moved silently and with delibera-
tion, and appeared to be emerging from some
opening just above his head*—stepping in-
stantly into visibility, as it were. He began
to suffer from an overpowering desire to
join them. Just as he was about to rise
from his chair, the warning rattle of the
conductor’s baton on the music-stand
abruptly awakened him.
For a short time he played with his
accustomed fiery strength. Then he felt
that cramp was developing in his shoul-
ders. He tried for a few seconds to remove
his attention from the visualised music, and
by sheer will-power flood his arms with new
virility. He knew that he was swaying on
the chair. The piano seemed to be chang-
ing into a squat and shining beast, and
every key he touched gripped his
finger-tips like a. claw. Then the oflicious-
ness of the unspeakable Kestor culminated
in an appalling insult. He leaned over and
smashed his baton on the back of the pian-
ist’s right hand with incredible violence.
For the moment Fahlberg was petrified;
then everything visible dissolved into a
scarlet mist....
Quarter of an hour afterwards a wounded
man was carried out of a shell-crater by a
Red Cross attendant and assisted to the
temporary dressing-station. His face was
blotched with clay, and the expression of his
eyes was that of a somnambulist. Out of
the right sleeve there projected a dirty red
mass of linen which swung restlessly in the
opening.
“Shattered hand, sir,” reported the attend-
ant.
“Ernst!” called the doctor in charge.
“Eh?” replied the second doctor sleepily.
“The right 0ne....0ff at the wrist. Fix
the stump for him, will you ?.. .. God ! Who
is this man? I know his face.”
The second doctor gazed dreamily at the
erect figure for several moments.
“Where have I seen you before?” he
mumbled jerkily. “Where have.... Heaven !
It is Erik Fahlberg, the pianist!”
Then he realised the significance of the
lost hand. “I am sorry,” he said gently,
and motioned to the attendant to remove the
man’s jacket.
The wounded man made no reply and con-
tinued to stare fixedly in front of him. The
doctor took him by the left arm and led him
to the chair beside an oilcloth-covered bench.
He lifted the right arm, laid it flat on the
cloth, and commenced to unloosen the foul
bandage.
“Shock, too!” commented the senior doc-
tor, glancing across the limp body of an
amputation case which was being hoisted
from the floor. “Give him a mouthful of
No. 12.” Then he addressed his own patient,
who had been awakened into consciousness
by naked contact with cold oilcloth:
“Gently, my son,” he said soothingly.
“In three minutes you will be sleeping like
a child. Another cylinder, Emil!”
The noise outside the cottage increased in
violence. The intermittent spattering of
leaden rain against the eastern wall became
merged into a continuous staccato rattling.
Little puffs of plaster spurted from betweeii
the tormented bricks until the air was turbid
with floating whiteness. Overhead, the
scarred and splintered beams shook and
swayed against the open sky, and the criss-
crossed shadows flung down on the dirty
floor moved weirdly from side to side like a
drunken trellis. The attendant picked up a
heap of cut and torn uniforms and pushed
it out through the shattered window. He
suddenly fell backwards to the floor as if
twitched by an invisible wire, and lay still.
“Fool!” bellowed the stout senior. “Did
I not tell you to keep below the ledge? Now
I have but one assistant—one assistant, and
fifty men in agony! God in Heaven! May
the Devil reject you—you thoughtless
swine!”
A young man lying on the floor behind
him commenced to groan chokingly. The
doctor turned swiftly and lightly touched the
distorted face. “To-morrow night,” he said
briskly, “the hospital train will arrive at
Munich, and a proud mother will meet her
brave son. So!” And the dying boy Avas
comforted.
Just above the tangle of beams and iron-
work overhead something burst into a white
cloud and sprayed the interior of the cottage
with whirring splinters. The junior doctor
slid sideways to the floor and rolled under
the bench, and his senior collapsed like a
deflated figure and fell across the unconscious
body of his patient.
Fahlberg rose from the chair, stood facing
the door, and then strode across and
flung it open. He returned to the chair,
dragged it a few inches back from the bench
and sat down calmly. A wounded sapper
over near the door attempted to rise to his
feet, and in so doing displaced a box of
bandages, which fell with a crash. Fahl-
berg swung round, glared at the offender and
rapped sharply against the bench with the
knuckles of his left hand.
“Silence, dog!” he shouted angrily, and
the sapper lay still.
Along the edge of the bench was a long
crimson stain which seemed to fascinate the
seated man. He suddenly straightened his
body and extended his left hand with its
long, febrile fingers. The fingers sank down-
wards, struck the smeared edge, and raced
along to the left like the legs of a running
spider; whilst the right arm, with its drip-
ping wrist, followed closely behind. Upwards
and downwards along that monstrous ke.\ -
board moved the two hands—the one throb-
bing with life and strength, the other long
dead and invisible.
The sapper near the door stared for a
time in amazement at this dreadful recital,
and then watched with horror.
When the end came, Fahlberg twirled the
chair from beneath him with his left hand
and walked across to the doorway. He stood
there for a moment, enraptured., by the
terrific applause of bursting melinite. Then
he boAved to fhe audience of Death but in the
open, and fell on his face Avith a bullet
through his brain.
HAROLD LINDSAY.


m
■ .f* ■ ~ ; '
...... ......t........ I
■-V&
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi=
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu=
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Suaensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
•Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves sper cent, on
Automobile
Fire Insurance .
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers ami Agents. Please write.
g
GAILLEI9I6 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bosch High-tension Magneto,
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern—you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine,
improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4-CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
'Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Pruitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
df
gfdg
The Motor Cycle of
Supreme and Unchallenged
Reliability
By Achievement.
32-page Art Catalogue—gratis.
ARIEL WORKS LTD.
36 BOURNBRCOX, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street.
ADELAIDE: 152 Bundle Street.
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street.
r
!
*
A
ArW
y
/ /
■
I
V
r
:
/V
vy
w
_ . gr
i%
£v\
<TI
D
\
JiVk;
X
(l
U
t4£<T
F$
/!'
.i//' 1
- M /
TV.
//I \ V.» > y /•
' h
IF YOU ARE LIVERISH
TAKE
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
BROOKS
have provided perfect and lasting
Saddle comfort for every cyclist
and motor cyclist—whatever
his weight or build, what-
ever machine he rides.
OF ALL
DEALERS.
<£>
*s*
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ON LAND OR WATER
The FAMOUS SCHEBLER CARBURETTER
(Made in America)
IS SUPREME.
Miss Minneapolis,
the fastest
Motor- b o a t
in the world,
who in her re-
cord mile trials
made an aver-
age speed of
61.08 miles an
hour,
iIP;
IS SCHEBLER EQUIPPED.
A Carburetter to gain such distinction must be, in the highest sense, EFFICIENT.
Consider what efficiency means to you, Mr. Motor-Owner, in these days of high-
priced motor-spirit. Besides SPEED, EFFICIENCY means POWER and ECONOMY,
or the ability to get the last ounce from the last drop.
We shall be pleased to show you latest SCHE&LER MODELS or post Catalogue free on request.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd..
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Messrs.
Wheeler & Schebler, America
-- [2


NGROVTT
LEATHER
ICLTINd
IS UNSURPASSED IN DUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
WOODWORKERS— here's a big time saver.
The Utopia Vise
practically gives you all the advan-
tages that can he gained by a dozen
ordinary vises in a dozen different
positions. The ordinary vise will
hold work in one fixed position—
the “UTOPIA” holds it in any
position desired. Has seven pairs of
jaws to take all classes of work —
largest capacity 7in. x 18Jin. wide.
Call and see demonstration or write
for full descriptive folder.
Parke $ Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
89 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
SJ2
Chemicals
Best Prices from Stock or indent
Soda Ash
Caustic Soda
Sulphide of Sodium
Alum
Sulphate Alumina
Borax
Hypo Soda
Naphthaline
Bicarb Soda
Bichromate Soda
Carbolic
etc., etc.
British Aniline Dyes.
JAMES HARDIE § CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Little Collins Street, Melbourne. [3
“S
EL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
fd
sdfgsd
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE,"
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
d. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
PERMASITE
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
INSULATORS.
POTTERY-WARE.
Best Porcelain, for the Electrical Trade.
, ,
High-grade Hygienic Jugs, Teapots, etc.
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. [3
v:
o
o
y
*
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing: with aid
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; Sib., 35/-; 20z., 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
Cast-Iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
Spenser Street, St. SCilda, V irtoria.
fgsdfgfsd
gsdfgsdfg
Reducing Valve
for Steam, Water or Air.
SIMPLE
RELIABLE.
STOCKED IN ALL SIZES by
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Motorists, Garages 8 Others
When Requiring Gear Wheels, Machined Parts,
Milling or Grinding Work or Repairs,
r-V\- • ", .;/
• ft
Send to our Modern Workshops for
Quick Despatch and Moderate Charges.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.
307-309 Kent Street, Sydney.
a- >N
.*
\
W Y-
\ ■ . S'
PORTABLE OUTFIT.
BRITISH
in Workmanship is expressed in
The
s
sdfgsdf
Shearing
Crutching
Set
20 Years of AUSTRALIAN Sheep-Shearing Experience is Sponsor for this Outfit.
Engine, Shears, Ring-oiled Brackets, Angle Steel Frame 8 Grinder are all Listers.
GEDYE S CO.
9-15 Young St., Sydney
The Pioneers of
Sheep-Shearing; Machines
gsgsfd
STATIONARY OUTFIT.
YOU NEED THIS DESTRUCTOR
A SANITARY NECESSITY FOR THE HOME AND FACTORY.
Consumes All Refuse; Keeps the Premises Clean;
Affords the Best Means of Eliminating the Qerm Peril.
The “GUTHRIDC” DESTRUCTOR
Adopted by Board of Health, Education Department, etc.
Full information from MANUFACTURED IN FOUR SIZES.
gsfdg
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Patentees and
Manufacturers,
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-
