

3 S THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. G. WATKINS «S& 00-,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent &fcr*e©t;, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUCIIOinEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
Piaaiisgg
■PMIP
m
••••••
m
- >
PM
We Advaj\c e MoA.ey
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST.
N SW- MONT DE • PIETE DvTC? U°
HFAn OFTTCE 74 CASTLEREAGH S* SYDNEY 74
“* *• ' n»lly Telegraph" New Bonding. And nl 2 , K , n|t Bt , erf Newcaetle, N.S.W. Telephone: City »32».
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 215-211 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
159 George Street Went, Sydney. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
m
3
m'”!vAXiiT t i
f
Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
► Made in Australia h/ o 1
Frederick stearns‘C°
SYDNEY.
Hulloi\’s
Piiveo |> )?lc ”
Bacon
‘Jgyve," stfe -6ej£>! t
I RAWSON MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE
built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages over wooden
pest fences, as it saves 80 per cc;.t. in erection
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particulars write to The Rawson Moody Mfg. Co., 343 Kent St.,
Sydney, or send for an Illustrated Catalogue B.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
tablets
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 180 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
n
“Not the same as others -
Malthoid is an ideal roofing, and has been used with the utmost success
on every class of building. Attractive suburban bungalows, palatial city
buildings, modest up-country homes, and all manner of farm and other
buildings—are the better for Malthoid’s use.
It costs less than half the price of galvanised-iron, yet possesses every
advantage you can seek.
Write to-day for samples and descriptive, illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (0. 8. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chaliis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS-
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD WFTAL h FAMdWAC-ONS. IRON fc MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDER DISCS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Arthur
£ (o
machinery.
DENBY MOTOR LORRIES
Selected by America’s Chief Post Office, New York, as THE BEST.
Several 2'A-Ton Models STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: THE QUAY, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD, Charlotte Street
GILBERT LODGE & CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney. 115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G: ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
KENDALL & GENT LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAYLEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
GLOBE PNEUnATIC ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
WEBSTER & BENNETT.
QPALOID
HJ.OOX
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Moutn.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
th P Flnwera.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WA-rcp
The Bulletin
VoL3B.—No. 1960.]
[Thursday, September 6, 1917
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Books Answering Sex Problems
PLAIN FACTS ON SEX HYGIENE, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6. ported, 3/8.
CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH GIRLS, b.v W. Lee Howard. 3/0, p. 3/8.
CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH BOYS, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, p. 3/8.
BREATHE AND BE WELL, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6. p. 3/8.
HERSELF. Talks with Women Concerning Themselves. 6/6, p. 6/9.
TRUTHS. Talks with a Boy Concerning Himself, by Lowry. 3/6, p. 8/8.
FALSE MODESTY. By Dr. E. It. Lowry. 3/6. p. 3/8.
CONFIDENCES. Talks with a Young Girl, by Dr. E. B. Lowry. 3/6, p. 3/8.
CONFIDENTIAL TALKS WITH YOUNG WOMEN, by L.B. Sperry. 4/-, p.4/3.
CONFIDENTIAL TALKS WITH YOUNG MEN. by L. B. Sperry. 4/-, p. 4/3.
WHAT A YOUNG BOY OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-. p. 5/2.
WHAT A YOUNG MAN OUGHT TO KNOW, bv S. Stall. 5/-. p. 5/2.
WHAT A YOUNG HUSBAND OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, p. 5/8.
JIYBTERY OF THE SEXFIS (Buzzaeott). 6/6, p. 6/9.
WHAT A YOUNG GIRL OrGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. SA, p. 5/2.
W HAT A WOMAN OF 45 OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-. p. 5/2.
WHAT A YOUNG GIRL OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, p.5/2.
HEALTH AND HAPPINESS. A Message to Girls, by E. M. Mosher. 8/6. p. 3/9.
Tokology
A BOOK
FOR EVERY
WOMAN.
By
A. B. BTOCKHAM.
10/6, posted 10/9.
COLE’S BOOR ARCAOE, 346 George St., Sydney; and at Boiirke St., Meibom**.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
16 per Tin.
SUITABLE FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
The Medical Press and Cikctaab
says: “These Jujubes should be oi
special service to Lecturers, 1 übn
Singers and Speakers, and, indeed, t
all who are called upon to use tneir
voices fiequently for prolonged periods.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
The Ped Page
New Gods for Old
Having provided ps with "New Worlds for
Old, H. G. Wells now makes anticipations
of Godkiud iu the making, aud this English-
man looks at his God. Wells's God, the
Invisible King (Cassell, per .Sydney Book
Club) is an extremely interesting attempt
at religion-making. No previous religion has
ever Itjttl the Jfjyrfeune to possess so brilliant
a prophet; ilik Revelation is modest, .lucid
and sincere. His own belief is not orthodox
Christianity; it is not, indeed, Christianity
st nil; in fact, you might call it
Weiliuamty, its, ehve nevertheless is a pro-
filed belief ;u h personal aud intimate God.
twlls Is sceptic, but be sharply
ohji’cts to dogmas very widely revered. The
Trinity distinctly annoys him. He believes
that the council of Nicaea, on which all
existing churches base their creed, was one
of “the most disastrous and the least vener-
able of all religious gatherings”; and he
holds that “the Alexandrine speculations
which were then conclusively imposed upon
Christianity merit only disrespectful atten-
tion at the present time.” He has no tima
for the Third Person of the Christian
Trinity, the Holy Ghost —Wells suggests
that he was invented.
dZ
Wells is a complete agnostic in the matter
of God the Creator, while an entire believer
in God the Redeemer. But this God that
Wells worships is a finite God ; he is neither
all-wise, all-powerful nor omnipresent; he is
the maker of neither Heaven nor earth, and
he has little to identify him with that heredi-
tary God of the Jews who became the “Father”
in the Christian system; yet he is a person-
ality, he has a past and future; he is within
time and not outside it. Wells objects to
that infinite “God the Father,” proclaimed
at the council of Nicsea, for “His jealousy,
Ilis strange preferences, and His vindictive
Old Testament past.” Of the Veiled Being
behind existence vve know nothing; Wells’s
new religion has nothing to say about that
Being; he is only concerned with the finite
friend and consoler of man, God the Re-
deemer. The universe is outside this God of
love and kindness, the immortal part and
leader of mankind, our friend and brother.
God is not magic, though many people still
think of Him as merely the magnificent
Fetich. “They call upon His name, they do
certain things that are supposed to be pecu-
liarly influential with Him, such as saying
prayers and repeating gross praises of Him,
or reading in a blind, industrious way that
strange miscellany of Jewish and Early
Christian literature, the Bible, and such like
mental mortification, or making the Sabbath
diill and uncomfortable. In return for these
fetichistic propitiations God Is supposed to
interfere with the normal course of causa-
tion in their favor. He becomes a celestial
log-roller and does special services for
His little clique of faithful people, or con-
trives spiteful turns for those who fail in
theirreligiousattentions.” Wells’s God is care-
less of our ceremonies and invocations.. He
does not lose His temper with our follies and
our weaknesses. It is for us to serve Him. He
captains us, He (does not coddle us. He does
not guide our feet. “lie will not even mind
your innocent children for you if you leave
them before an unguarded fife.” He is never
“wrath,” as was the habit of the early gods.
“It is only in quite recent years that the
growing gentleness of everyday life has begun
to make men a little ashamed of a Deity less
tolerant and gentle than themselves.” Also
God is not a Bogey to frighten little children
with. And Wells speaks a great truth when
he says that children do not naturally love
God.
d*
The new God grows as mankind grows.
“He is the undying human memory, the iq-
crease in human will.” And when the reader
arrives at this statement he finds that Wells
anticipates his objection that this God is no
more than the collective mind and purpose
of the human race. A valid objection which
Wells, in the opinion of this page, fails
altogether to dissipate. If he chooses to
personify the mind of the race as a finite
God, the average man will have no objec-
tion; and certainly Wells gives admirable
reasons why 'we should do so. Applying the
pragmatical test, a religion is good if it
works, a God is necessary and right if lie
works; if He supplies a human need He is
necessary; but the precise objection that
this page takes is that mankind should he
superior to such a need. Wells touches on
this point, too, and he certainly makes out
a case for his personal and finite God.
The benevolent atheist relies only upon
his own moral strength ; he is good only
because he chooses to be good. He has no
source of strength outside himself. Wells
insists that we have to learn that the good-
ness on which the unbeliever prides himself
is outside and above himself. You have to
be humble to be saved; you must become a
seVvant of God. Yet there seems to this
page a love for abjectness and humility that
is traditional in the old Christian, religion.
Wells’s curly training still survives in his
blood. He must have a God to humble him-
self to, even if he has to invent one himself.
Wells has been converted to his new
religion, which he says is merely a clear
statement of a vague but swiftly crystallis-
ing feeling which is tormenting and tantalis-
ing a vast number of modern minds; and
Wells lias all the fervor of a convert. He
describes the change in himself which is
after all only a logical—too logical—out-
come of his previous speculations and tenta-
tive convictions. He asserts that he has
found that his new God responds, that he
gives courage and the power to suppress our
own weakness.
This God he personifies as a God of
youth; lie objects to the,-symptoms of senile
decay in our representations of God the
Father: “tradition and usage have blinded
our eyes to the absurdity of a time-worn
immortal.”
Wells’s God he calls The Invisible King
of us and the^‘world. The aim of this God
is knowledge as a means to power, and for
that he must make use of human eyes and
hands and brains. His ultimate aim is til A
conquest of death, both of individuals and ;
of the rac<i. (But for this statement we have
only Wells’s word.) He is not meek, and be
will not fail us or himself. The symbol of the
crucifixion and the drooping, pain-drenched
figure of Christ jar with*#the spirit of the
disciple of the new religion. His Christ' is
risen and trampling victoriously on a broken
cross. He is setting out with us to conquer
ourselves and our world and our stars. Amd
Wells confidently anticipates his advent and
acknowledgment as the Invisible King of
mankind. Consequently the servant of that
God will immediately set to work to sweep
and garnish this world in preparation for his
arrival. He must adjust his scheme of life,
his habits and his relationship in the light
of his new convictions.
Wells takes certain typical cases and in-
vestigates the change of life necessary when
each becomes a servant of the new God.
Each must endeavor to work for the world’s
good rather than for himself. If your trade
is anti-social you must amend it or get out
of it. Wells even earnestly investigates
what a barrister must do to be saved. “It.
is now a profession extraordinarily out of
date; its cotie of honor derives from a time
of cruder and lower conceptions of human
relationship.” Under the new religion the
law courts will exist only to adjust the
differing views of men as to the manner of
their service to God; “the only right of
action one man will have against another
will be that he has been prevented or ham-
pered or distressed by the other in serving
God.”
Wellsianity will be a creedless faith, and
it will possess neither church* nor priest-
hood. Wells distinctly refuses the credit
of having been its inventor or evangelist.
This newest testament will attract the atten-
tion of the enormous number of hearts
wounded and sorely puzzled by the war.
For them this ereedless faith of a young'and
ardent God may bring comfort; but the
reader will have altogether misunderstood
this volume if he or she merely seeks to
find in it a salve or a balm. The Invisible
King will bring comfort, provided one can
accept it, blit he demands the unceasing and
strenuous co-operation of his disciples,
especially if his convert is a barrister.
Fiction
This is only half a review, meant to serve
as a dreadful warning to those English
novelists who exceed 300 pages per book.
St. John G. Ervine, author of Changing
Winds (Maunsel, Dublin, per Dvmoek's
Library), requires 571 pages to say what he
means. He may have something important
in the last 271 pages; but this page’s limit
is 300. and this page is prepared to go for
the rest of its life ignorant of what happened
after page 300. It has also refused to glance
at the last page. The first half is interest-
ing in a long-winded, discursive way; and
in it every possible aspect of Ireland is in-
terminably discussed by four extremely talk-
ative youths.
The herd's father is an interesting Irish
Unionist. The motive of his Unionism is
neither loyalty to England nor terror of
Rome: it is entirely a matter of com-
merce: “The English bled us f«,r centuries,
and it’s only fair we should bleed them. We
got our teeth in their skins, and they’re
shellin’ out their money gran’ ! That’s what
the Union’s for —to make them keep on
shellin’ out their money. An’ instead of
tellin’ the people to bite deeper an’ get more
money out .of them, the fools o’ Nationalists
is tellin’ them to take their teeth out!
Never, never, while there’s a shillin' in an
Englishman’s pocket." But he wants to see
Ireland get hack her pride and her self-
respect, stolen from them by England. “I'll
never forget that it was Arthur Balfour that
turned us into a rfation of cadgers.... I may
as well tell you I don’t believe in the
tyranny of England. The English aren’t
cruel —they’re stupid. That’s what they are
—thick! As thick as they can be, that’s as
thick as God thinks it’s dece’nt to let any
man be Th?y think they’re doin’ the right
thing when they’re only doin’ the stupid
thing. That’s where we come in. Our job
is to teach the English how to do the right
thing.” This sturdy patriot doesn’t want
Home Rule for Ireland: what is needed is
Irish rule for England. And it’s no use
driving the English out of Ireland, because
you can't tell these times who is English
and who is Irish. Another Irishman doesn’t
mind the Englishman, who doesn't know any
better, looking down on the Irish, hut lie
ohiects to the Ao T i ,: «h
comic. But he can nor hud much hope for
Dublin, whose chief industry is P olt< r l *
“barrels and barrels of it, floattog down Urn
Liffey, and nothing, nothing real, floating
When the Irish hero and his English
chains start life in London they take them-
selves with an enormous seriousness , and in
the intervals between falling in love they
exhaustively discuss Woman and every other
thing that is nearly as important.
Interesting and acute criticism, but up to
page 300 leading nowhere. On' that page
the hero is calling on a titled lady of whom
it is said: “She splashes her sex about as it
she were distributing handbills’; and is
placing a cigarette for her in her lips. Also,
his fingers are trembling. Evidently, some-
thing. happens after page 300,* something or
whicli this page must for ever remain m
ignorance. An author who thinks more ot
his art than of the paper-shortage needs to
be discouraged.
JZ
There is nothing snoopopatliic about
Hebe, whose alieged personal recollections
arc “edited” by V. Goldie, aod titled Ihe
Happy Barret (Heinemann, per Dymock s
Library). Hebe is a pleasant and endear-
ing little pagan. She has a depressing child-
hood, with a drunken mother who whipped
her and a father too gentle to protest; and
after her mother’s death she has to give up
her life to nursing her father. He conveni-
ently dies and leaves her £2000; aud she
goes up to London to study medicine and
have a good time. She is 20 years old and
owns a grievance: “I felt that. I ought to
have the same chances as if man ot seeing
everything, finding out what I like and what
I dislike, and letting my character develop
naturally, instead of in grooves prepared
for it by other people, Alban”’ —the gilded
youth she had met —“spoke often of ‘having a
bust’; and, although it did not sound re-
markably entertaining, defiance and dislike
of being ordered about made me increasingly
anxious to ‘have a bust’ myself. Probably
I should , find that it was rather an un-
pleasant experience ; but it was ~ an experi-
ence;‘and it is ridiculously limited to grow
old without ever knowing the world you live
in.” A common note in modern fiction.
Well, she has her bust. She gets all the
excitement she wants in a London nightclub
called “The Happy Garret'” Anybody who
wants to sample a night-club at no personal
risk may simply read /this novel —Goldie’s
description seems perfectly truthful, and
certainly not alluring. The various types
of frequenters have an exotic interest. Hebe
enjoyed her dissipation, without having any
■yvish to repeat it; but she paid the usual
price, becoming the temporary mistress of a
weak young fool, and when these two got
tired of each other Hebe managed to ruin
the life of a middle-aged married man.
But Hebe’s autobiography is delightfully
and wittily written ; and she is a real woman,
though unusually frank. Left, at a loose
end. and needing money, she tells us that she
hit upon the idea of writing down her recol-
lections for publication; and she adds: “I
cannot think of a pleasanter way of earning
one’s living. nor one that necessitates less
disturbance of the way of life that one
fancies.” And she notes at the end of the
first chapter that she makes a break• there,
“not that there is any particular sense in
doing so. but because my editor t a person of
the most dismal literary experiences, assures
me that a book has no chance whatever
unless it is divided into about 14 chapters of
(JOOO words or so each ; and I have got to
make some money somehow.” It was lucky
for Hebe that her experiences and love
affairs just ran that length.
Australian
Mabel B. Byookes has utilised her experi-
ences in Egypt, whither siie accompanied her
husband, the famous Australian tennis cham-
pion, on war duty, iu the composition of a
novel, Broken Idols (Melville and Mullen,
Molb., 45.). She writes easily and interest-
ingly; but her novel has a skimpy plot,
simply worked out. and tlx* most interesting
chapters are those descriptive of the sights
and the life of Egypt in war-time. Her
volume is half novel, half guide-book. Yet
since Billjim has. annexed Egypt as part of
Australia, the interest that be and we feel in
the scene suffices to give a readable value to
the yarn.
Mabel B. Brookes saw many interesting
things in Egypt. One incident shows us
“Banjo” Paterson arriving at the Remounts
Camp in charge of 4IX) mules, which he and
](> _ Australian ex-stockmen had driven,
unaided, through the crowded streets of
Cairo. The English officer from whom the
Australians had taken delivery of this mob
had gazed in sorroyv at the fewness of the
men and had, insisted that the only way to
get the mules through Cairo and tne rest of
the 13-milc journey was to lead them ! When
“Banjo” informed him that his Billjims
meant to drove them, ho immediately betted
the Australian tiiat half the animals would
escape. “Banjo" took that bet, and one can
almost spe his grin as he did so.
Another interesting fact that Mrs. Brookes
touches upon is the danger that the youthful
Billjim runs in Egypt in marrying girls of
the mixed nationality .that are usualiy termed
Levantines. One character remarks- "Man*
of our soldiers are marrying these girls r
fear me there will he a big final reckoning
in more than one family when the war ends’*
However, the young bride in the novel n™.
raises to turn out well.
Jt
A unique and ultimately valuable souvenir
of the war is The Book of the liallnrat an
illustrated description by the troops’ 0 n
board that transport of their life up to the
moment that she was torpedoed. it a
edited by Ramsey Wood, and primed bv
Wightman, Old Westminster Press. London
Humor, both of letterpress and illus-
trations, naturally predominates. “Rvu
11.M.A.T. Ballarat” is a full and in-
teresting description of the dramatic
end of the transport. The vessel was
torpedoed on Anzac Day, but the d.nner pro-
vided to celebrate that anniversary was
never eaten. It was to have been a unique
feed : bread and bully beef, washed down
with water, the menu being intended to
remind Billjim of that first soldiers’ meal
eaten on Gallipoli’s grim heights. i uc j’
dentally, this seems the .fittest way we in
Australia should celebrate that glorious anni-
versary—by having on that day a genuine
Anzac meal. How the Ballarat men be-
haved the whole world knows. “They’ve
given us a splendid day for it. anyhow,”
one optimist, waiting on the sinking ship
for his turn in the boats, remarked. When
volunteers were called for the stokehold so
many rushed down that it became over-
crowded. A poker enthusiast salvaged his
pack of cards, and a .school was formed on
the slantiug deck. One man offered the
doomed ship at auction. The lot was
passed in atf 2s. 9d., for private sale to
Father Neptune. And the watchfulness of
the British Navy was dramatically pro-
claimed. Within hour there were
gathered about the ship destroyers, trawlers
and aircraft. As soon .as the poker en-
thusiasts reached the destroyer they went
on with their gome, and two men were even,
seen playing chess.
Poems, by William Moffatt (Watson,
Ferguson, Brisbane), aren't. They are
merely rolled-gold poetry, looking rather like
the real thing, but conveying nothing in. nice
phrases. William Moffatt writes dull blank
verse on Kitchener, who must be setting up
whirlpools with the speed and suddenness
with which lie has been turning in his wet
grave since he died, on “The Nation's Gall,"
and “Dawn,” and “Visitors’ Welcome to
Nanango Show.” and “The Brisbane Exhibi-
tion.” The poverty of the author’s thought
is evidenced by his fondness for cliches. He
speaks of “that flag on Which the sun’s ray
never sets.” and “cheeks that showed the
glowing blush of early ripening peach,” and
“Life’s harbor bar." and informs us once
again that “He knows it all long since—He
knows—He knows!” And finally he makes
a vain plea “for a pen instinct with magic
power.” A careless reader might never sus-
pect that all these nice words weren’t poetry.
But the only art in it is that of the printer
and binder.
d*
S. H. Smith, who intends publishing a
comprehensive history of Education in Aus-
tralia, comes forward with an interim
volume, A Brief History of Education in
Australia (Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney), the* substance of three lec-
tures upon this topic. Evidently consider-
able research has gone to the making of
this volume. The author points out that
no schoolmaster or teacher formed part of
the first establishment in Australia, though
there were many children among the fami-
lies of soldiers and convicts. And even
when it was decided to send out a few
teachers, Wilberforce, “the eminent philan-
thropist,” expressly stated that the teachers
should have small salaries, “because if
you were to fix large ones improper
persons would accept the situations.’'
Evidently this feeling is shared by our
modern Education Department. The author
stresses the missed opportunity that has
hamstrung our educational needs for ever,
the revocation, in* 1833. of the original Cor-
porate Charter, by which large areas of land
had been set aside for the endowment of edu-
cation in this State. “If there had been, in
1833, a statesman far-seeing enough to sug-
gest the handing over of such land-grants as
a perpetual endowment for National Educa-
tion, superabundant funds might to-day he
available for all present and prospective edu-
cational needs, without burdening the State
with the expenditure which its people so
willingly bear V' The author sums up his
history for the 00 years of which he treats
as “chiefly a record of the establishment of
Church schools, of the granting of public
funds for their support, of attempts made to
introduce system into the d ? stributinn m
such funds, and of a long-continued effort to
maintain in the schools that dogmatic reli-
gious teaching which ‘is quite powerless to
impose a given body of opinion upon the
citizens of a succeeding generation.’ ”
Contributors and disappointed cinquainists
are reminded that this page wants OI "?
Australian nursery rimes —not parodies-"
and that these must reach, and be addresse
to. this page by Oct. 6. Particulars las
week’s issue.


TRUE ECONOMY IN PLOUGHS
Canton Disc Ploughs have discs 26in. in diameter, each of which will turn a
furrow from 3 to 12 inches deep, and from 10 to 12 inches wide. The discs
are all ball-bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle
to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely
over and is thoroughly pulverised.
Prices — Single Furrow, weight 6301 b £lB
Double Furrow, weight 7801 b £23
Treble Furrow (as illustrated), weight 9001 b £2B
yd;
JiJi JJU.4UI
Wiard’s Patented Steel Beam 2-horse Plough, No. 100 (as illustrated),
weighs 1061 b. It cuts from 6to 9 in. deep and 10 to 14 in. wide, and
is the easiest of draught of the Wiard Series.
No. 100 2-horse Plough
£5/2/6
The Wiard 1-horse Steel Beam Plough, No. 74 (as illustrated),
steel beam, and cuts from 4 to 7 in. deep and from 0 to 11 in.
strong and simply adjusted.
No. 74 Steel Beam Plough, weight 841 b
has a forged
wide. It is
. £3/17/6
•
m-.
ft.»
The Wiarrl Sub-soil Plough (a. illustrated) is strong and serviceable and
loosen the soil in the bottom of a furrow from 3to 6 in. deep. I
purposes it is unequalled.
Wiard Sub-soil Plough, weight 1061 b
The Wiard No. 68 Road or Contractor’s Plough, as shown, is intended flor
heavy work where great strength is necessary, and four or more horses are
used. The forged crucible steel points and mouldboard are specially designed
for digging and loosening the hardest clay, gravel and rocky ground.
No. 68 Road Plough, weight 3251 b.
£ll
Anthony
Horderns’
Farming
Implements
Economise
Time and
Increase
Efficiency.
The Wiard Hillside Plough, No. 120 (as illustrated), has a steel beam
and ploughs from sto 8 in. deep and from Bto 12 in. wide. The
beam is so adjusted that the plough works perfectly when reversed
either way. The coulter is of the ordinary Colonial pattern, not
as shown.
No. 120 Hillside Plough, weight 1181 b £5/10/6
No. 21 1-liorse Hillside Plough, 781 b £3/2/6
-tVV
teami
The Wiard 1-horse Garden Plough, No. 62 (as illustrated), has a wooden
beam and handles, with steel mouldboard. It turns a furrow from 3to 5 in.
deep and from 6 to 8 in. wide. A handy garden plough.
Wiard 1-horse Garden Plough, No. 62, weight 401 b 32/6
T WIARD PLOW CO
JP'" i
ill
'A
The Wiard Gang Plough, No. 203 (as illustrated), makes a double furrow
22in. wide and from 4to 8 in. deep. Has soft centre steel mouldboards, con-
trolled by levers.
Wiard Gang Plough, No. 203, weight 3601 b.
£lO/5/.
ANTHONY HORDERN Si SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


HAMMERLESS SHOTGUNS
MODEL 1912
Extra Light Weight
Made in 12,16 and 20 Gauges
There’s no need of carrying a
heavy gun. The use of Nickel
Steel makes it possible to get ex-
treme light weight with great
strength. But it costs more, and
so is not generally used. Win-
chester Model 1912 shot-
guns are constructed en-
tirely of nickel steel, which
makes it the lightest and
strongest gun on the
market. It is very hand-
some besides, and a relia-
ble, fine-shooting gun. Be
sure to see one before buy-
ing. Sold by all dealers.
THE REPEATER PAR EXCELLENCE
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Priae Medals.
Works i Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
“My machine has now
run 3 0,0 00 miles
without any renewals
to engine, except rings
and valve springs.”
A. McCAW, Monkseaton.
That is the kind of service the
Ariel gives; always long and
satisfactory.
Art List mailed free.
Ariel Works Ltd.
36 BOURNBROOK, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Agents : TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street,
ADELAIDE: 152 Rundle Street.
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street.
J
38®^
M 4
f
e
1
m
6
a
Airmen,
Soldiers, Sailors
and Home Defenders]
all want WRIGLEY’S —the famous
War-time Sweetmeat—why?
If you have tried it yourself, you know. If
you haven’t tried it, do so NOW. Then send
some in every parcel or letter to your friend
at the Front. It sweetens the mouth, soothes
the throat, relieves hunger and thirst.
0*
VO
fee
gvg*
ESI
ffesf of all—
the flavour
lasts!
3d.
per packet of
five big bars—your
choice of two flavours.
A packet of 5 bars
will last a long time.
It is economical a9
well as beneficial.
On Sale Wherever
Confections Are Sold
Or send 3 penny stamps for sample
packet to J. C. Gambles & Coy, Sole
Australasian Agents, Commerce
House, Melbourne.
Chew it
after
every
meal
m
Zi
&
//{
95
a
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Lucky Scout — he’s a
cargo of WRIGLEY’S
to keep him bucked up. "
THE
FLAVOUn
LASTS
TjMIIE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going ti
let the Ravisher of Belgium icin without
lifting a hand?
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma, Hay
h % r ' j ° Be . V o ,*"* or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
•5) old in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
Montserrat
SAUCE
§
&
du
0
MA DE FR OAI THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICF.
ITS PURITY
and great
digestive
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers*
» ARE YOU n
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything el6e.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within v
reach of all. Can vou ask for
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURUn
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women and child'® -
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED Flit'-
THE WINSLOW CO.,
:? 10 Collins St.. Melbourne, Vic.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished jh
Nature. For service, comfort and ?
health artificial teeth cannot be
pared n it It a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to P l ®.
serve their teeth as long its possible _
keeping them clean. Cold water and •-■ ‘
and water are useful, but are some ,
ineffectual. Rough powders, such aS c “ , 1
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and cba
are too severe on the enamel. _ .C
KI DENTA TOOTH PASTE is scieny '
cully prepared to clean the teeth, sw
the breath, harden the gums.and disi
the mouth (thus preventing fOl ..‘up
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as i
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/' 1’) 1P '
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample P"
ROCKE, TOM PS ITT & CO., Melbourne.


She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or faded
hair, stimulate its growth and make it soft
and glossy with this simple recipe, which
they can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum and 1 small boa of
Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
he purchased at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair every other day
until the grey hair is darkened sufficiently.
This mixture relieves itching and is excel-
lent for dandruff. It does not stain the
scalp, is not sticky or greasy and does not
rub off. It will make a grey-haired person
look 10 to 20 years younger.” —Advt. [”
81
Protect Yourself
from Sore Throat,
Coughs and Colds
by taking:
Cinnak
Take a small dose of CINNAK every
morning- and you will be safeguarded
from disease germs for the rest of the
day.
THE UNBREAKABLE
CINNAX TUBE
CONVENIENT,
AND
EASY TO CARRY,
AIR-TIGHT.
1/6 per TUBE
ALL CHEMISTS
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
' THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAYERLEY PEN."
Wm
s
%
m
m
m.
m
ipTOgS:!*
a
li
(U-S-A)
i om
'MMWT
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
MADAW! There's nothing I can recommend
with greater confidence than
RONNINCTons
■risk moss
Yes I end (hit 'confidence has been
expressed by many leading medical
men who know it’s value as an effect-
ive remedy for Coughs. Colds. Influ-
enza, Bronchitis and Whooping Cough.
It has stood the test for OVER 50
YEARS and to-day is the most ap-
proved as well as the safest, surest,
remedy for >H Cheat 6 Throat troubles
Large and Small Bottles
—.l/6 and 2/6
liiilirJ?
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes —and must have —the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
Mellins Food
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial food.
Set out to feed
baby right. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most advan-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin's Food, with useful Handbook, for Mothers, “The
Care of Infants in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD,, SYDNEY.
4*'i
Match the Record of
Tyres
With Any Other Mileage From Any Other Tyres
THE RESULT will be in favor of
Firestone Tyres. We are sure of it.
The tough, resilient tread with its
gripping Non-Skid letters is built to
stand rough roads and trying cli-
mates. Built to save wear and tear of
hard going, both for you and the car.
Firestone Tubes are dependable. They
stand up under strain of rough wear and
hottest climates.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New
Wales,
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatriclc & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages Write far Illustrated Literature
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring Song.
Come buy me a fairing of primrose* and
daffodil,
Blown by the star elves across the night's
sill;
A fairy face laughs from the rim of each
yellow frill,
Flushed with the kiss of the wind on the
hill.
Then ho! for the nosegay with rich treasure
laden,
Cool beryl o’ moonlight, warm pearl o’ the
dew,
The slim hands of Spring gather one for each
maiden,
All tied for true love with a riband of blue.
Diamond and emerald and delicate filigree,
Fit for blue eyes at their brighest to see,
Gems of the days of old lace and fine
courtesy,
Set in the gold of a heart-beat for me.
Then ho ! for the nosegay with rich treasure
laden,
Silver of dawning and noon’s opal light—
Sir True Love of dreams, here’s a merry
white maiden,
All shining and warm with the kiss of last
night!
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
Vanderdecken.
There are ships upon the sea
Thought freighted
For ports beyond my knowing.
There are ships upon the sea
Ghost freighted.
Oh, the tolling of the bell-buoy! Oh, the
wild wind blowing
O’er the lost ships at sea !
There’s a ship upon the main
Faith freighted,
And a black tide turning.
Chartered she for ports of pain,
Death freighted.
Oh. the boom of hidden breakers! Oh, the
false lights burning
For my ship upon the main!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Little Gold Sail.
Somebody said all my seas were grey,
And I laughed, for they could not see
The little gold sail from the silver bay
With its lade consigned to me.
Somebody spoke of the rising gale
And the wrecks in the black lagoon,
But I saw the light of a golden sail
Ride over the fading moon.
Somebody pitied me, desolate;
I laughed and I turned away,
For the little gold sail with the opal freight
From the shores of the dawn o’ day
Was even then at the harbor bars.
O Folly, to pity me
Whose ship comes home with a bale of stars
That were fished from a twilight sea !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Love-Songs.
I.-RONDEAU OF LOVE SLANDERED.
That Love should scold or fret, or ever be
Other than Love’s sweet self, delight in pain
Or wound and slay in bitter jealousy,
Turn cold and coy. forge fetters to restrain
His mounting wings—dear Love, ha’ pity o’
me!
Love is the fruit of ultimate ecstasy.
The perfect joy untouched by any stain.
What knave so vile to dare the blasphemy
That Love should scold !
Hate mates with Shame. Lust murders for
a fee
Love’s chosen ones, or apes Desire for gain ;
Jade Prudence smirks and sniffs in Love's
disdain,
Frozen Discretion bids the Graces flee —
These, these are they (as any lad may see)
That Love should scold !
II.-LOVER O' LOVE.
i know thee, Love, and knowing thee so
well
Do pray thee shelter me for yet awhile!
Beneath thy wings I cannot hear the knell
Of ominous Death, nor mark the age-long
guile
Of ghouls that gnaw the breasts of sweet
Desire,
Or with their ordures quench thine altar-fire.
Tell me thy secret yet again. . . .ah, tell!
I love thee, Love, from knowing thee so
well!
Be generous to me, so soon I die!
A little while, and then the closing gloom.
The skies laugh (see!), and all the roses
sigh.
Lead me, O Love, to some delicious room
Where I, with worship meet of leaping sense,
May know thine old divine munificence.
My nights are lonely, and my days lurch by.
Be generous to me, for soon I die !
III -CONQUEST.
Love and cold Hate sat arguing in the
heather,
And love with roses odorous of the South
Made Hate a wreath to hold her locks to-
gether.
Gave Hate a draught to cool her acrid
drouth.
Hate snapped: “Let be! You tempt me to
the tiling
That frenzied girls and lisping poets sing !
I hate you still, T hate you, hate you whether
You tease or toy !” Love laughed deep in his
throat.
And maddened by the glory of that note
Hate crooning melted on Love’s gracious
mouth.
n.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.


MM
■
p
'.V.V/r
•: /
w
--V-'vi.
•’ . ■ -/
IMfM
"
: i
nn I»ni m
f ■■■■
f /
As /
■/
SSS. ,v; -)-' -jr. *
mmm
.
/ ' /
<>:•-. \->f' -'•
/•■ / »•■*•/&.-'\ivA
U : MsM
ira&Eiss
■: ':.
V •' « v
v- !
'*■':■ - ■ '■ ';
-r-,
B
ug®i
V*
r ' > V:
ft
■
V vSIS -,«; ■ -
:■-.?<
.
HE
I
FROM ALL STORES
AfAMUFACTt/R£C> flv' _ _
PERDRIAU RUBBER COITO
ftVnMPV. MeL«n, iaM r BRISBAbLE gEgXH^APELftIDt.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
j| O ENYER
PRICES
Single Elastic Truss, 20/-
Double Elastic Truss, 27/6
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS,which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
WOLSELEY
At present the Wolseley Works are on
war service and unable to supply pri-
vate customers, but we shall be pleased
to add your order to our waiting list,
to be fulfilled when we can resume
deliveries.
Agents:
F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. '
KELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO.,
Russell Street, Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY,
Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
WOESELEY MOTORS ETMITET),
ENGLAND.
Proprietors: VICKERS LIMITED.
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
FAIR LIST PRICES.
FAIR TREATMENT.
Bring' Bacß Any
GOODRICH
BLACK SAFETY TREAD TYRES
That Owe You Anything.
FROM Maine to California, and on around the
world, The B. F. Goodrich Company sends forth
this all-including invitation :
Bring back any Goodrich Tyres you feel
have failed to give you right service.
DUVAL AND CO. will make good all Goodrich shortcomings, if any—be they
little or big—will make good fairly and squarely, generously and gladly.
There are NO STRINGS to this offer—NO CONDITIONS—NO CATCH
WORDS.
It is an open-handed, arms outstretched invitation urging you to bring youi
grievance and your tyre to Goodrich, and get a reckoning at the hands of
Goodrich Fair Treatment.
For Duval and Company ax-e more eager than any tyre-user that the slightest
fault in a Goodrich Tyre has been squared.
THE GOODRICH SUPER-GUARANTEE.
A Goodrich Black Safety Tread Tyre carries with it in the market an unwrit
ten SUPER-GUARANTEE that it is the best fabric tyre the largest, oldest,
most X’esourceful rubber manufactui’er can produce.
The very name of Goodrich pledges it to the best service a fabric tyre can gi' e
—style, comfort, freedom from tyre trouble, and mileage.
The buyer takes no risk with it. It must return the high service Goodrich
demands of it, or Goodrich Fair Treatment steps in, and squares the account.
Only the user himself can prevent a Goodrich tyre from rounding out the best
dollar-for-dollar service—by his failure to bring back a Goodrich tyre that
has failed him.
DUVAL <a CO.
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE,
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY,
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MacCallum, Perth; Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN."


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 19 iO
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1917.
[‘rice 00,
DRAT THESE FLIES!
"In German East Africa the enemy loosed swarms of bees on the advancing British troops.” Bulletin correspondent
Well. German bees are not the only insects that John Bull has to contend with these days.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
‘‘Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a Netvs-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord IJowe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to lOoz., 21 d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each,
additional 2oz.
37uT$xxlljeIz/7i.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1917.
AUSTRALIA’S DISCOVERY THAT IT
HAS CUT A SERPENT’S TOOTH.
There is no room for argument about these
two things: that the system of arbitration
evolved in Australia protects neither the
public in general nor trade-unionists in par-
ticular from strikes, and that the State has
still before it the job of discovering how to
protect public services from being raided by
servants of the State in pursuit of political
or industrial advantage to themselves. It is
a fair thing to add that unless arbitration
van prevent strikes —that unless awards are
accepted for some other purpose than to dis-
regard them—the whole business is a solemn
farce. And it is not irrational to say that
unless publicly-owned services are removed
from the arena of political wire-pulling and
industrial disturbance, more than half of the
argument -with which public ownership has
been advocated and defended in every civil-
ised country goes on to the scrapheap.
Wherefore the current burst-up in Australia
has brought definitely to light two or three
problems which most people knew had only
been kept out of sight in the past by refu-
sing to look at them. These are : (1) the
responsibility of the trades union in relation
to Arbitration Court awards; and (2) the
status of the union of State employees in
political-industrial unionism.
The prevailing situation in respect to
both of these questions is most untidy.
Unions approach the Courts for the settle-
ment of disputes, and, after getting an
award, proceed forthwith to smash it.
Almost daily during the last few years the
Courts, Federal and State, have been defied.
Penalties have occasionally been inflicted —
and never enforced. At other times a hocus-
pocus arrangement has been entered into, a
patch sewed over the fracture, and every-
body has been satisfied that the farce has
been advanced another stage. The adminis-
tration of the system has been feeble to the
point of cowardice, and even the Courts
themselves have been obviously stalling
along from day to day in a spirit of' con-
scious futility. This is not good enough.
Either intervention by the State in indus-
trial disputes is an inherently evil thing,
doomed to failure like thousands of other
social experiments, or it is not. Either
Labor has no more use for arbitration or it
has. In either case it is up to Australian
citizens to find out, for so far they have only
been fooling with the thing. Australian
unions through this system have secured
suclp advantages as preference to unionists,
increased wages, shorter hours and certainty
of conditions for stated periods. They have
accepted these. They have entered into
obligations to observe the terms of the
awards. Many of them have broken these
obligations frequently, and by striking have
hit the system in a vital place. There are
penalties for striking; but experience has
shown that they are all inadequate. It
would be worse than futile to go on with
arbitration in any form until unions seeking
registration are made responsible in a bind-
ing degree for their corporate part of the
contract, and individual members of such
unions are protected against the abuse, of
their organisation. And it would be worse than
madness to suppose that unions of State em-
ployees should be allowed to exercise the
alleged liberty of paralysing public services,
common to the whole citizenship of the
State, except at a price which would compel
every member of such organisations to take
a lively interest in his rights and privileges.
This paper has always stood, and still
stands, for a wide extension of public enter-
prise, its view being that only along these
lines of co-operative effort can an efficient
instrument of production be achieved, and
that until the production of wealth is on a
sound basis talk about its distribution is
mostly hot air. But it is no good telling
The Bulletin that when public services
are held against the public by State ser-
vants there is anything on the premises
except the nucleus of a particularly gross
tyranny, or that there has been any social
progress worth 2d. For what has been done
in Australia to arbitration and what has
occurred to publicly-owned utilities the com-
munity is, of course, to blame. The citizens
generally have been pliant and casual, and
disposed to agree to anything for a quiet
life. “Give us peace in our time, O Lord !”
has been the constant prayer of the Labor
politician who complacently watched his
principles vanish apd the cause he was
understood to be fighting for strangled,
equally with the anostle of Fat, who inter-
preted everything in terms of the nearest
balance-sheet. But this has nothing much
to do with the facts as they exist.
* * * *
The facts are that unions, after getting
awards from Courts, are striking wholesale,
and that railways have been thrown into
disorder by employees and coiiVerttd into
methods for losing public money. Now, talk
about “putting men in .gaol” because they
strike, and doing the same thing to citizens
who advocate striking, is sheer absurdity. It
is no part of the State’s function to treat
men of a non-criminal class as if they were
felons. In any case, given a just cause for
striking, men, as long as they are men, -will
strike, and no country on earth would have
gaols enough or force enough to deprive them
of their liberties. It is not a question
whether men are doing right or wrong by
striking, but whether an arbitration system,
called into being mainly to protect the work-
ers from the necessity of waging continual
war with employers, can be more than a jest
unless it can hold both parties to their bond.
This paper does not think it can hold them.
Experience seems to prove this beyond doubt.
And it is persuaded that until the funds of
arbitration unions are made liable for dam-
ages for breach of contract, the system will be
not only imperfect but without merit of any
kind, and the unions themselves subject to
progressive corruption. The alternative to
this is that trades unions which prefer to
determine their industrial conditions by
direct negotiation with employers—to retain
the strike weapon in their kit; to measure
their strength against that of the other
fellow and live in a condition of eternal vigi-
lance against a lock-out or attempt to reduce
wages—should be allowed to take their choice.
There seemed at one time to be many
reasons why they should not. Most of these
were stated by or on behalf of Labor. Much
experience has been amassed since then, and
The Bulletin would give something if it
could hear Labor give any good reasons
against this plan to-day. The theory
held in the past, and held still, by
this paper was that it seemed mon-
strous for the community to stand by
and with folded hands watch Labor and
Capital engaged in some industry bludgeon-
ing one another into the grudging accept-
ance of a particular demand while the State
and unoffending citizens were subjected to
inconvenience and loss. Monstrous was only
a mild way of describing such occurrences.
But it is still more monstrous that when the
community, mainly out of compassion for
the under-dog, rushes in and settles the
affray without bloodshed or loss, the cir-
cumstance should be turned into an excuse
for introducing more bludgeoning and tear-
ing up settlements with a view to creating
additional riot. And w r hen Labor proceeds
to invoke the Court to adjudicate on a dis-
pute, and, having got a judgment, retires
with a fixed determination to act as if it
never heard of the institution, the only
thing Society has gained is the knowledge
that it is being taken down. There are two
sides to this business. One is labelled
“Dinkum”; the other has another brand.
And the dinkum side is the one Australia
has seen least of for a long time. There was
a case last week of a union—the Seamen—
while actually out on strike for no purpose
whatever in relation to the union’s affairs,
and in flagrant defiance of the law, having
on the file of the Federal Arbitration Court
an application for a new award, covering
higher wages, and so on. It looks almost
incredible, but there the fact is; and so far
as this paper knows the application is still
on the court file. There could be no more
damning evidence of the rottenness of the
system we are working with or the irrespon-
sibility with which a humane, enlightened
scheme of public policy has been juggled
by unions and by Parliaments. To expect
success for arbitration under such condi-
tions w>as as mad as to expect a speech
from a disembowmlled whale. These condi-
tions have been a direct incitement to failure
and to the growth of rank abuses within the
unions. If the nation's ability to grapple
w-ith Labor disputes begins and ends with
piffling with them, the best thing to do is to
turn to something else until more sense is
acquired.
* * *
As for unions of State employees, the
question is not only their responsibility tor
the observance of their contracts, but the
still larger one of their connection with
political industrialism. This latter subject
has either to be settled by the electors and
Parliament on the basis of common defence
against economic robbery, or it will settle
itself in a way that employees of the State
are not accustomed to think about. There
is no magic in the words “public ownership.
The test of public ownership is the measure
of public service in both the positive and the
negative sense. It will easily fail unless it
proves cleaner and better than the thing it
is a substitute for. The proof that it is
cleaner and better is not to be found in mere
words, nor in the upending of the national
services when the directors of a new scheme
of political regeneration give the signal. A
servant of the State is entitled to the same
political freedom as his neighbor. No one
has a right to even attempt to impede him
in the exercise of this freedom, and pro-
bably no one but an idiot ever thinks of
doing it. But every member of a democratic
community has a right—and a powerful one
—to insist that the State servant shall not
employ his freedom or subvert his trade
organisation to so use the machinery of the
State as to make it a weapon of political
coercion against other people. There can be
no possible objection to, say, railway or
tramway men —they are in the limelight
most just now —belonging to political par-
ties or advocating political experiments. But
there are a multitude of reasons against
unions of railway men converting their trade
organisations into political outfits, linked
up with similar concerns in the next street,
intent upon depriving the public of its pos-
sessions and using the union of State
servants to either advance or impede
certain political doctrines. There is no
social or moral difference to the communal
organisation between a policeman and a loco,
driver —between a citizen employed in the
Justice Department or the Rost and Tel-
egraph Department and one employed on
the Railways. Each is a servant of the State.
Each has his political opinions and affinities.
Each has a right to have these respected.
But each, because he is a servant of the pub-
lic, is under a heavy obligation to respect
the political opinions of others and in his
job to know no politics. An official in the
Justice Department who refused to accept
a document from someone who had been de-
clared black, or declined to register the plaint
of a citizen whose lunch has been slaugh-
tered by a non-unionist, would probably be
rushed off in a taxi for a strait-waistcoat.
Telegraph-operators who decided not to send
telegrams to. certain individuals, postal
officials who imnounded the correspondence
of various companies and persons, John
Hops who went on strike or denied protec-
tion of the law to anyone who sought it,
would be cheerful revelations of social chaos.
So too with the railw-ay man who holds up
a train. He is prostituting his job by bring-
ing politics on to the locomotive, forgetting
that between his freedom as a citizen and
his duty as a public servant there is a line
of sharp division. If he wants to be rid of
that duty there is nothing to hold him to it.
But while he takes public pay every con-
sideration of citizenship and honestv holds
him to the protection of the public. Parlia-
ments have permitted this to be obscured
many times, mainly because politicians are
supine, vote-catching adventurers who pawn
their souls to Party. It is they who are
most to blame for the degradation of union-
ism among State employees. And in the
en <J tka y have given themselves, the State
and the dupes of their picturesque promises
a mouthful of shavings to chew.
THE SIX CITIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each of the Six Cities that circle our coast,
parading as capitals, has a distinct character
of its own that impinges sharply on the
vision of the Australian returning home. It
is not a matter of mere difference. There are
differences between any two goat-and-galah
townships west of Cunnamulla or Bourke.
Character implies some manifestation of life
and expression: the power to create things
in an individual way, whether a building or
a brand of beer. And this kind of energy can
only belong to a place that is in some degree
metropolitan. 8
One has to go a long way abroad before he
can see the essential character of familiar
places. Coming home at different times from
Europe Asia and America, some fundamen-
wiii fe t£ re c ,f Slx P ities has struck me
with the abruptness of a thing newly per-
Mo™ than
h i of l ou . 1 ‘ cities, it is a microcosm of
the national life and character, partly
because of its situation and partly because
£ , chl f ef fl railwa / strikes in toward the
and w™ Col i! m ,! nt ’ bringing the Maranoa
and Warrego bushmen to its streets, and
tie Sme i of the mulga with that of
the mangroye. Brisbane is the capital of an
unwieldy State that should have been divided
into three provinces long ago, and nerhan<s
the artificial centralisation of its government
has bloated it unduly ; but it has not played
the leech to the same extent as some of the
and ’the 1 b-tH S ; T °7 n " vil ! e a »d Rockhampton
and the little ports in between have main-
tained a life of their own, and in the dav
when Australia is divided into its natural
parts Queensland will be able to meet the
SSfi neighbors? *«■*«**
Coming down from the Oriental North
one sees Brisbane more vividly than f™
any other angle. The violent and spasnSdi?
energy of the beef-eating white man so
different in its effect from the laborious’and
unceasing industry of the vegetarian Asiatic
aie evident in its people and its streets lii
every part of the town there is the same im
pression of undisciplined vigor. A traTn
draws up at a station, and a crowd of work-
men tumble in as violently as bricks falling
from a dray or a gang of French Douaniere
seau-hing your handbag for a smuggled box
of matches. There is a total lack of reMraiat
111 their gestures and their talk, whether tl,
subject of their conversation be strikes e
horse-racing. Here is Australia in the raw
with a quick brain and a fiery temper
modified by either cold or culture. ’ un '
The old legend of the Australian, nartieu
larly the Northerner, spending his time lea "
ing against a post, dies hard. It has a bask
in the natural instinct of any man to reeu
perate after orgies of exertion. The Wester -
mailman, having successfully pounded his
team over a hundred miles of blaeksoil H-its
and mulga ridges by sheer force of will, Sa ( ln s .
ters down the main street of the township
and props up the posts of the pub or store
Here in Brisbane the pendulum swing 0 f
energy and indolence shows most vividly j n
the architecture no less than in the people
Some of the finest buildings of the continent
abut on tin shacks or rubbish-heaps, as if the
energy that went to their creation had not
lasted quite long enough, or had been inter-
fered with by a freak'sli instinct for dis-
order. There is vigor, coo, in the way the
shopkeepers sweep away the dust that a
municipal indolence allows to accumulate at
their doors. It is a city of extremes, this
Cinderella of the North, with its laxness and
its revolutionary temper. It will make itself
famous throughout the world by its charac-
ter and nervous energy, or let itself be wiped
out by a plague from Asia through sanitary
neglect.
One naturally drops down to Hobart for
an antithesis. There is no nervous energy
about Hobart, and it does not suffer any
danger from extremes of feeling or action.
It preserves the traditions of an English
country town as carefully as it preserves the
records which Sydney burned. Alone among
the capitals it allows its people to gather in
groups about the streets without being moved
on by policemen. There is an individuality
about Hobart, but no character in the active
sense of the word. The energy and intellect
which would have kept it from being provin-
cial have been badly drained by Syduey and
Melbourne, and the corroding footmarks of
the health-seeker are a serious menace even
to its beauty.
Midway between the two come Perth and
Sydney. The energy of Perth is tempered
by a seductive blue river that allows people
to go to business in ferry-boats, and gives
them visions of a beauty that disturbs the
spirit of pure commerce. Otherwise Perth
would be a hard, driving place, like the
town from which it takes its name. People
grow muscular and wiry there, but the river
keeps them from being merely angular. If
Perth could live entirely on a rich back-
country, like Sydney, it might become hedon-
ist, too, but before it grows as old as the
latter place the goldfields may be tapped by
Esperance or some port in the South. The
hope of all Australia lies in some such policy
of decentralisation, that will break the
power of the Six Cities before their vested
interests grow too strong.
Sydney, in this matter, seems beyond hope.
Lying in its rich coal-basin, with the harbor
at its feet, it can play the vampire to its
heart’s content. Its justification lies in the
fact that it is a beautiful vampire, and that,
in spite of foreign influences, it has re-
mained true to its essential Australian char-
acter. It has starved the Riverina and the
Northern Rivers to buy fine ornaments for
itself, but it has worn them gaily. Of all
our towns it remains the most interesting,
not because of its harbor or its size, but
because of the free play of life in its streets.
Walk down George-street, any hour of the
day, and you can hardly fail to blunder into
half a dozen comedies, so thoroughly has the
spirit of the town broken down the Anglo-
Saxon convention that human feelings should
only be displayed behind four walls. alk
down Castlereagh-street, on the other hand,
and you will see every type that Australia
has formed, from the North-West overlander
to the Illaw r arra farmer. The democratic
vampire steals their money and their trade,
and gives them in return the freedom of its
streets and waterways.
It is not so with Melbourne. Melbourne
seems to have been planned by a suburban
Calvinist, and Toorak and Carlton pursue
their predestined ways without knowing one
another. If Gippsland or the Western Dis-
tricts come to town they are crowded into
Bourke-street, with its air of cheap com-
merce and its windows filled with pyjamas
and rolled-gold jewellery. There is a dignity
about Melbourne, but it is the dignity of
prosperity and of a heavy culture that has
no roots in anything native or alive. The
typical Australian is rarely seen in Collins-
street, and even the Collingwood larrikins
have a certain alien stolidity in their bear-
ing. A bleakness that comes of straight
streets and a flat terrain penetrates into the
lives of the people and the suburbs, and
there is a perceptible absence of democratic
feeling. They say that the character of a
place can be told from the names of its
public-houses. Well, there is no Wharnes
Arms for the Yarra Bank lumpers, but in-
stead the Sir Charles Hotham Hotel, named
after the most autocratic Governor that \ ic-
toria ever had.
“Melbourne’s what I call a high-class
place,” said a Cockney, who once travelled
■with me. “Go into a Sydney restaurant, and
it’s ten to one you’ll find a gravy-spot on the
tablecloth. Melbourne wouldn’t stand that.
No ; Melbourne will always be careful about
its linen. It is a high-class place, in the
Cockney’s sense of the word, and the larra
looks as if it had done much washing in its
tortuous course.
Adelaide should have been the capital of a
small province, rich with olive-groves and
wheatfields. It has that look of comfortable
prosperity that the richer Dutch farmers
give to some parts of Capetown, and it has
no real connection with Broken Hill or the
interior. Yet in every corner and thorough-
fare there are strong marks of character. Its
citizens are staid and leisured in their
ways, and have not forgotten the grace or
courtesy. That quality creeps into the atti-
tude of porters and officials, and reminds the
stranger that he is a guest, even if he has
paid his bill at the hotel. Sydney and Bris-
bane are hospitable, but not courtly; Adel-
aide stresses the latter virtue wdthout quite
forgetting the former. When all the t ir-
ginian gentlemen of the old school were
driven out of their country after the Civil
War. they must have emigrated to South
Australia disguised as Germans. That is the


only way one can account for Adelaide; and
the burly, vigorous figure of Chart.es King-
ston remains to point the eternal paradox.
Civilisation flourishes on varieties of type
and character. Our own civilisation would
be more advanced if there were 16 capitals
instead of six. But the vested interests are
already firmly entrenched, with their maces,
their cocked hats and all the paraphernalia
of sovereign power. It would take some-
thing like a revolution to break them up. and
it might be cheap at the price.
VANCE PALMER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
When the Brotherhood of Man Arrives.
Sydney Telegraph has made a point every
morning since the strike began of explaining
in an awed tone of voice that somebody with
75,000 jumbucks had taken a job on the
wharf, or another chap with £75,000 was
driving a cart, or someone else who had just
inherited a cattle-run was firing on a coastal
steamer. One day it had a moving yarn
about a baronet having rushed to the rescue,
and on another it chronicled as a star item
of news the appearance in moleskins of “a
descendant of Thackeray.” The reason for
flaunting all this wealth and distinction
before the public is a bit obscure ; but, after
all, it may be only a taste of what will pre-
vail when the Industrial Comr onwealth gets
a fair start and journalism comes into its
own. Then the proletariat will be supplied
with strong meat for strong men and the
Telegraph will be able to print stuff that
really matters. For example :
Among the citizens who enrolled yesterday for
service as bank manager or teller was Tom Smith,
of Balmain. Citizen Smith has a wife and 12 chil-
dren. Prior to enrolling he worked on the colliers,
but is prepared to see this business through.
There was a buzz of excitement at headquarters
yesterday when Joseph Carrutiiers, K.C.M.G.,
LL.D. (hon.), M.L.C., appeared bef re the Commit-
tee of Public Safety and volunteered for service as
director of the totalisator at the pony courses.
Jack Storey has telegraphed to the central com-
mittee that he is at the disposal of the movement
whenever it feels that there is any vacancy to fill.
Henry lloldon arrived at the Hotel Australia last
night, under transfer from the rabbit-trapping de-
partment to the position of general manager of
Railways. He has an engagement for seven days,
with the option of renewal for a further period of
24 hours.
The miners have volunteered en masse for the job
of conducting the Anthony Hordern business. A
ballot will be taken. The winner gets the job for
a fortnight. If at the end of that time there is a
job left someone else will be balloted in. The
jobs have to be made to go round and no monopolies
will be tolerated.
All the former employees at the Randwick work-
shops have been appointed auditors at the Treasury.
Their places are being filled by the Deans of New-
castle and Sydney.
Percy Brookfield will be placed in charge of the
summit of Mount Kosciusko.
Members of the Stock Exchange have been sworn
in for employment at the abattoirs, their appeals to
be allowed to deliver bread having been refused. It
is considered that the deliver}' of bread can be
more safely entrusted to University students.
For the position of Master of the Mint thousands
of applicants have been received. Citizen Holman
has expressed a readiness to accept the engagement
under direction of Hugh D. Mclntosh.
The S. M. Herald has been appointed an official
organ of the Directors of Society, and the proprie-
tors granted temporary employment as stokers at
the gasworks.
Correspondence received from the Federal Govern-
ment suggesting that, the pay of Supreme Court
judges should be increased from £5 per week to
£5 10s. has been replied to with the statement that
the matter is one with which the State feels itself
quite competent to deal.
Then the public would know there was some-
thing doing instead of being driven to suspect
that the most important phase of the strike
was the rush of affluent individuals after a
cure for indigestion.
The House of Doubtful Characters.
The all-importance of £3O iu a democracy
was established in the Yic. House of Land-
lords last week. Under the quaint law of
Victoria nobody has intelligence enough to
be an M.L.C. unless he has a freehold “of
the annual value of £5O above all charges
and encumbrances.” You have intelligence
enough to be an elector if you are merely the
occupier of premises worth £l5 a year. But
to be intelligent enough to be a member you
must be a freeholder of the value of £5O per
annum. The law’ may say to you. in effect:
“Your loyal duty is to put eveiw penny you
can lay your hands on into War Loans.
It is so much a patriotic duty to subscribe
to War Loans that we will not charge you
income-tax on your interest.” But simul-
taneously the law says to you: “Fool!. If
you do that, instead of putting your savings
into house property, you haven’t got sense
enough to be even an M.L.C.” Now which is
it to be? Is a man going to be barred from
the Vic. Leg. Council because he has patrioti-
cally put every cent lie could lay his hand
upon into War Loans? And it can be taken
much further than that. Is a man going to
be barred from the Vic. Leg. Council because
he has chosen to spend his earnings in giving
his children a thorough education?’ Or
because, instead of buying a house, he. has
preferred to make ample insurance provision
for his wife and young children? Or because,
instead of storing his safe, lie has stored his
mind? Or because, instead of buttoning his
pockets, and piling shilling upon shil-
ling. he has given freely to help
men who are, he has been told a
thousand times, giving all for us? On the
whole, if half the things Fat himself has
said during the last three years are true, the
possession of a freehold worth £5O a year is
quite as likely to be the mark of a bad citizen
as of a good one. Shall we therefore call a
House with a freehold property qualification
The House of Doubtful Characters? The
House itself is evidently content that it
should be so. Last week a daredevil of a
member proposed that, the qualification ofa
member should be reduced from £oO to £3U.
By 13 to 5 the House declined to listen to
such blasphemy. And then we are foolish
enough to wonder why men, scorning the
assertion that this is a democratic country,
advocate Direct Action! Those 13 really
are the enemies of order-—quite as much the
enemies of order ns those members of the
I.W.W. whom we rush into gaols. Let us
play fair. We tell these mostly-foreigners
that in this country their doctrines are quite
out of place, because here the people rule
through the most democratic Parliaments in
the world. And then we retain contempt-
ible little property qualifications which do
no good but merely give the lie to the pro-
testations with which we meet the revolu-
tionaries. It isn’t playing the game with
law-abiding people: it puts them in an
entirely false position, and all for no practi-
cal purpose.
»
The War Budgeteering of a Baronet.
Maokiland heard something about the
National cashbox the other day and it was
just another of the tricky old stories tnat
have made Joe Ward famous. “The
revenue,” he said, “has been £18,367,547, the
expenditure £14,058,770. This gives us a
surplus of £4,308,777, and as we had a sur-
plus of £2,166,077 last year there is a bal-
ance iu hand to start the new financial year
with of £6.474,854.” If the M.L. Govern-
ment were the director of a public company
and produced such a statement of accounts
it would run great risk of being pros-
ecuted. The alleged surplus is a mere arith-
metical figment. A war happens to be going
on; and Maori,and is in it. The cost of
these unfriendly proceedings during the year
was £14,344,523. Ward leaves this to be
explained later by the Defence Minister.
But it is a vital part of the country’s bal-
ance-sheet, and without it that document is
worthless and indecent. The facts are that,
though the revenue was very much inflated
by loan expenditure, this loan expenditure
was disregarded, just as though there were_
cash or assets to show for the lOU. Actually
the year’s operations were on this scale:—-
Expenditure .. ..£28,403,293
Revenue .. .. 18,367,547
Deficit .. ..£10,035,646
The national blister has been rising like a
balloon and will be somewhere in the vicin-
ity of £160,000,000 by the end of the’ year—
will have practically doubled in six years.
This, too, is clumsily huddled away
out of sight, mainly it would seem, to facili-
tate the shocking conspiracy of Massey and
Ward to allow scores of millions of capital
acquired our of the war to be converted into
taxation-free securities. The only possible
explanation of what is being perpetrated in
Maoriland is either that the Parliament of
the country is so hopelessly corrupt that it
is ready to sanction spoliation of the public
in the interests of loan-mongering, or that
the electors care nothing about the days to
come. In either case the one certain thing is
that the common herd are going to gain
great experience and understand Ward and
his budgets very much better later on than
they do just now.
•—
Holding Up the Postal Service.
The recent hold-up of Southern mails at
the Queensland border is significant of the
attitude of certain sections of Labor towards
civilisation. One of the most important of
the bonds between man and man which go
towards making organised society mean
something is the postal system. Without
this and the electric wires we should feel
infinitely separated from one another, and
distances now measured by the flight of a
letter would be considered in terms of per-
sonal exertion and the time wasted in travel.
Cape York would seem a very long way from
Sydney if Webster were abolished and the
mailman cut off; a Commonwealth so vast
and thinly peopled as our own would be
almost unthinkable if the postage-stamp
stopped doing its duty. Yet unionism,
though it soon began to back down over the
matter, did actually hold up parcel-mail ser-
vices on the Queensland border, and a Labor
State Premier did actually accept the
of the strike sympathisers and let it go at
that. The Australian Post Office is at its
best a creaky-jointed concern; but that any
part of it should stop at the will of a few
railway workers would seem to indicate the
loss of all citizen feeling among those who
suggested the thing. It is evident that Aus-
tralia has a battle to fight here as hard as
any that has ever been waged against
despotism or oppression. Our whole
democracy is based on the theory that our
people have the civic feeling. That those
who do not possess it and are in no sense
real citizens should have the power to vote
in public affairs is nothing short of tragedy.
Now that the step is taken of de-registering
unions that break faith with the State we
shall have to give fair consideration to the
idea of disfranchising individuals who by
their actions show that they do not recognise
citizen rights. The man who would hold up
mail services is evidently not at all con-
cerned about the good of his country; and
it is a denial of the democratic theory to
allow such a person to elect legislators. The
same, of course, applies in lesser degree to
the stoppage of any public service; but postal
arrangements are of first importance and so
vital to the community that those who inter-
fere with them should be made to understand
their position: Just now there is a belief
among strikers that their own representa-
tives will return to power and wipe the slate
clean: but that belief would get a severe
shaking if disfranchisement followed on
serious acts' of treason against the
democracy.
Fleas.
All kings, governors, bosses and parliamentarians
are parasites fattening- on the backs of the workers.
These parasites on our backs will not suffer in wages
or wealth through this strike. Now, men, what
would you do with a bug or a flea if you found
ore on vour back or in your shirt? (A voice from
the crowd called out, “Kill it.”) Yes, that is the
answer, and we have to destroy the parasites who
are living on the backs of the workers. —From a
speech alleged to have been made by McCristal,
president of the Wharf Laborers’ Union.
Brethren, IK us examine the flea in the
light of plain facts. Yonder is a man who
toils on the wharf helping the importer to
keep the lid hard down on Australian indus-
try. He is assured that the person who
pays him wages is a parasite, living and
getting fat on his sinewy back ; but it never
occurs to him to ask whether he himself
might not be a parasite, or something else.
Yet he could easily prove to his own satis-
faction that he earns as second-hand a living
as the worst-tempered sheep-tick that ever
chewed the blood out of mutton. First of
all, he is a parasite on the inventors who,
from Daedalus down, thought out the
machinery of sea traffic. On the crank-
shaft and piston-rod and sail and bowsprit
he lives. Without these and a multitude of
other devices, ancient and modern, he could
not possibly exist by labor on the wharves ;
and none of these things he has thought out
for himself. Again, the organisation of the
big trading concerns is necessary to get him
his bread and butter —the machinery of bills-
of lading and international credits, and all
the rest which he neither invented nor can
understand. On all the thought that went
to produce trade systems and the machinery
of the sea the wharf-lumper is, following his
own line of reasoning, a direct parasite. It
is true that the hands and feet are no more
parasites of the brain than ard the whiskers
and overcoat; but if a parasitism is to be
admitted in the body politic, then it is clear
that the mere hardened fist of the worker
who doesn’t use the brain attached to him
is a parasite on the brains of others who
used their skill and knowledge to make pos-
sible the game that the hardened fist lives
by. If you are earnest about tracing para-
sitism to its lair you will find it crawling all
over the place. The men who now strike
and hold up their country in an hour of
crisis owe their freedom to do so entirely to
hard battlers for human rights who would
condemn their present action at sight. There
was never any reason why the men who did
the spade-work of the community should not
be slaves to the thinkers who planned the
work they did, except the kindly faith of
those thinkers that by making them free citi-
zens they would do better work. The men
now striking in defiance of thought are very
directly parasites on those who thought out
the freedom that enabled them to do so.
The question that unionism is up against,
and will be more and more up against as
time goes on, is that which concerns the
relative value of boots and brain. The
thinking part of the community has its rights
equally with the fist and the mouth; and
the denial of the place of systematic and
earnest thought in human affairs must soon
land us back ta savagery. But if the term
parasitism is to be used in a fair and decent
sense, it fan only be applied tp those who
do not either with hand or brain take some
part in/earning their country’s living. Just
now the unions on strike are obviously the
parasites on the community. They are eat-
ing the food that someone else is earning and
enjoying the privileges of a social organisa-
tion which they are doing their best to
destroy. Even a sheep-tick couldn’t do more
than that.
♦
Coolie Labor at Home and in Fiji.
“Dorai,” from Ceylon, discusses Ernest
Osborne’s recent article on Indian labor in
Fiji:—
I have managed Fijian plantations, F.M.S. plan-
tations and Ceylon plantations, and I’ve seen the
villages where the coolies come from, and I unhesi-
tatingly declare that the Fijian plantation recruits
are happier, healthier, better fed, better paid and
better clothed than the natives of equal standing in
India.
As to Mr. Osborne’s allegation about the allotting
of husbands by the superintendent of. the estate, is
this not exaggerated? In my experience of planta-
tion life in the South Seas, in the F.M.S. and in
Ceylon I have never seen such a practice. Still, it
is generally admitted by men who know Indian
coolies of the lower castes, that, where sexual mat-
ters are concerned, they have the morals of a wild
animal. . I have had to sign birth certificates on
these plantations, and the woman has been unable
to tell me with any certainty who was the father of
her child. It is the same in their native villages.
I am ready to admit that the indenture of labor
is not a good system. In fact, the Indian Govern-
ment set up a commission recently with the idea
of remodelling the emigration to* EuL and elsewhere
somewhat on the lines of the system in Ceylon and
the F.M.S. But whatever system the laborers are
recruited under, the class of work they will have
to do will remain the same. Which means that
they will still have to labor in the fields “up to
their thighs in dripping vegetation.” But has
Mr. Osborne ever seen them working in the paddy-
fields in India up to their middles, not in dripping
vegetation, but in black mud, in an unhealthy,
mosquito-ridden, fever-stricken country, compared
with which Fiji is heaven? Has he seen the women
breaking and carrying stones in this same climate?
Whether it is cane cutting or weed slashing
in Fiji, tea planting in Ceylon or rubber tapping
in the F.M.S., the work is easier, the hours are
shorter and the pay is better than in the Indian
villages. The hours in India are from daylight to
dark, seven days a week ; in Fiji the hours are nine
per day for 5T days. Daylight to dark is about 12
or 13 hours in India. The pay in Fiji is Is. per day
for men and 9d. for women. The coolies never saw so
much money in their lives before. In their native
land a man might get, if he has luck, 6d. per day
and a woman 3d.
The coolies’ lines may seem bad to Australians,
but to the occupiers they are palaces in comparison
with the filthy hovels they have been used to. In
having an ayah to look after their children, too, the
females are lucky; at home they would either have
to take their children to work or leave them in their
“oorls” to look after themselves.
Medidffl 7 attention might be improved upon on
Fiji plantations; but where the eoolfcs now have
to walk two miles to the district hospital they would
most probably have had to walk 20 in the coral
strand of the hymn. In Ceylon and the F.M.S.
there are dispensaries on the estates where any minor
ailments can be treated by a qualified dispenser : and
this practice should be followed in Fiji.
As I have already said, the indenture system should
be abolished, and undoubtedly it will be by the
action of the Indian Government: but I emphatically
repeat that the coolie is far better off on the planta-
tions of Fiji, Ceylon or anywhere else than he is at
home. If not, why does he remain on the plantations
after his term of indenture has expired? And when
coolie women “capture the overseer sahib and sub-
mit him to indignities” it is not because they are
overdriven, but because that sahib has outraged what
little modesty they have. The one secret in the
management of Indian labor is to be just, favor none
and leave the women alone.
“W.H.J.”: For all practical purposes Papua
is treated by Australia as a foreign country.
In Papua we are in the nature of things
compelled to draw our supplies from Aus-
tralia, and are loaded with a pretty stiff
local Customs tariff which has practically
no free list. Furthermore, Papuan products
going to Australia are placed upon the
same basis as those from Japan or any other
foreign country, although, so far as I know,
there is no competition with Australian
industry. Tobacco is grown and made up
in Port Moresby, but Australia says we
must not get any better chance than the
TT.S.A. and the local Administration
clinches matters by fixing an excise duty at
such a figure as to make export impossible.
We could perhaps remedy this sort of thing
ourselves if we had the same rights as any
other part of Australia, where we under-
stand that “no taxation without representa-
tion” is an axiom ; but in Papua, the com-
munity, white or black, has no say ia the
local Government, the legislature consisting
of officials, except for three members, and
these are the nominees of the Lieut.-Gov.
Naturally the official members are never
eager to oppose their head, and the three
unofficial members are scarcely likely to. In
Australia you also have trial by jury. We
have not. The Lieut.-Gov. is also Chief
Judicial Officer, and as in nine cases out of
10 the Administration is prosecutor, we
often have the spectacle of the Lieut.-Gov.
acting both as head of the prosecuting ad-
ministration and as Judge. Recently the
last straw has been piled on Papua's load.
The Commonwealth Government has always
turned a deaf ear to our troubles (you sec
no votes are to be bought here), yet we
are now compelled to pay Commonwealth
Income Tax. We don’t object to parting up,
but we do object to having to do so without
even the small amount of say in the spend-
ing which the franchise would give us.
-•>
Without troubling to furnish statistics,
C.-J. Madden the other day got rid of a few
observations on his favorite topic—the
alleged increase of sexual crime in Victoria,
and the Argus rushed in to point a moral.
The Tory view is that the state of affairs
which Madden says exists has been brought
about by Sosh. It is due to “State inter-
ference with family life.” Says the Argus:
The State acts in loco parentis. The child is
welcomed into the world with a baby bonus; the
State educates him ; the State finds employment for
him ; and after a period of lusty manhood, employed
largelv in efforts to increase his wages, he is sup-
plied by the State with a pension for the evening of
life.
The hostility of the Argus to the baby bonus,
Old Age Pensions, high wages and so forth
is well known, but in what way such
measures tend to increase sexual crime can
be apparent to none but a Tory logician.
The idea that the receipt by a mother of £5
when her child is born will predispose the
child to sexual irregularity is too bizarre
for an ordinary intelligence to appeciate. It
is equally difficult to understand why a well-
educated youth or girl should be more liable
to err in this respect than one that, has grown
up without education. And why in the name
of Tory logic the distant prospect of an
old age pension should induce a man .to
commit a crime, a conviction for which
would mean the loss of his pension, is a
question which even the Argus will find diffi-
cult to answer.
+
“E.L.L.”: “IPs” convincing story and
argument, “A Bushman’s Job” (B. 16/8/17),
fits my own case exactly. . There are men
who have been in the tropics so long that
East Africa with its fever holds no terror
for them ; the same men fairly shiver at the
thought of campaigning in a cold climate. I
know that I would be worse than useless if
sent to Flanders. But with the thermometer
showing 115-120° in the shade, I have shorn
170 prickly-pear sheep in an oilskin-cim-
basil suit so air-proof and pear-proof that
in the evening I would hardly have a pear
to extract, while my fellow wool-hawks would
be like great white-limbed baboons seated
along the top and bottom bunks picking pear-
prongs out with tweezers by the light of
the slush lamp. I guess that proves my fit-
ness for East Africa. After a man has done
years of that kind of thing, and sweated
above Cairns, he is the very man for Dar Es
Salaam or any other oven-lid; but he gets
cold feet at the prospect of being sent where
lie knows he will soon be a shivering hospital
ease. When I used to read of the Gallipoli
heat and flies I longed to be there. But
when I read of the biting cold —well, my
feet just froze in advance and the recruiting-
sergeant lost another man.
♦—
“R.”: Most of our very numerous copra
fires are caused by careless shipping and
spontaneous combustion. Authorities on this
subject (notably Dr. Taylor) affirm that
oil-soaked sacks cum moisture provide all
that is needed under favorable conditions to
bring about self-lighting. Further, copra
itself when sufficiently dried may fire spon-
taneously or become sufficiently heated to fire
a wax match dropped among it. To under-
stand why the wetness is there we must go
back to Brown Brother. The nigger, after
cutting up the nuts, is possessed of a lot of
green copra, and the simple child of Nature
says: “Water no good to me, pass ’em
along.” So he “passes along” to the trader
the original dampness placed there by Provi-
dence. The storekeeper sees the moisture,
drops a tear over the native’s sad duplicity,
adds about 50 per cent, to the over-estimated
value of the contained humidity, and docks it
off the price. Thus it often happens that
copra, altogether too moist to be safely
shipped, and in fine condition for spontane-
ous combustion, goes to sea. and Davy
.Tones and the underwriters later make
faces. Just now the danger is not so great,
as the stuff cannot be shipped and must lie
drying in store. This fact seems to favor
the Hun fire-fiend theory of “Cocoanut” (B.
23/8/T7). But after the war the old peril
will recur automatically. Another probable
cause of fires in the past through spontane-
ous combustion has been the curious belief
that “saltwater never hurts copra”—an
astounding conviction, utterly without foun-
dation. yet held all over the South Pacific
by men who ought to know better. On one
occasion I saw a manager endangering 1000
tons of copra by ordering the pouring upon


The Fanners’ and
Settlers’ Co-operative
Insurance Company
of Australia Ltd.
Head Office:
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches in VICTORIA and SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
FIRE—MARINE—WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
The Farmers and Settlers Co-operative Insurance Company of Australia
was established two years ago in the interests of the farmer. Agricultural
an pastoral insurance had been proved a highly profitable business; so an
enthusiastic group of believers in co-operation set about forming a company
o armers which would secure these profits for its own co-operating policy-
holders. The policy-holder who takes shares in the Farmers’ and Settlers’
Co-operative Insurance Co.—the allotment is made on a true co-operative
asib an is strictly limited by the amount of insurance—secures his
INSURANCE AT COST PRICE.
Write the Manager for Full Particulars.
a heated place of many buckets of saltwater.
When I protested he quoted some ignorant
Island captain. I had had 25 years’ experi-
ence of the stuff, so I was not surprised
when 45 tons of rotten copra (value then
£600) had to be dug out to prevent a fire.
No copra containing more than a certain
safe percentage of moisture should be per-
mitted, under heavy penalty, to enter or
leave Australia. We cannot directly control
the Island trader, nor yet Brown Brother;
but a minimum penalty on the offender here
of £lOO would save many a sailor and ship.
The Long Pull Up Hill.
The communique from the Pope about peace
seems to have been the signal for the Italian
to get busy. At any rate, he was suddenly
heard from, taking prisoners wholesale and
pushing the Austrian into a new address.
There are possibilities about the battles now
raging, and they would be larger and
more numerous if the Russian had kept
the other end of the log up. But,
Bear or no Bear, if the Italians manage
to turn the other crowd out of Trieste
they will certainly achieve important
advantages. The loss of Trieste would be
a great moral blow to the enemy. There
is the further consideration that a substan-
tial success by the invading armies w r ould
expose the late unlamented Francis
Joseph’s empire to an upward thrust
fraught with great unpleasantness. But
there is still a lot to happen before this
transpires, and if Russia is cut right out
of the argument the job elsewhere becomes
increasingly difficult. And the available
news from Russia is no better. The revela-
tions concerning the army made at the
Moscow Conference were appalling. The
picture they suggest is that of a disordered
rabble more likely to turn against the nation
than to do anything effective to the German.
Frantic efforts are being made to show the
possibility of reconstruction, but these are
obviously designed to obscure the probability
of the other thing. As for the Western
Front, there was a yarn the other day con-
cerning the enemy being about to evacuate
the coastal districts of Belgium. It may be
true, of course; but the same story was told
a year or more ago. Until the German
actually does shift from somewhere it can
reasonably be concluded that, according to
his way of looking at the matter, he is at
least holding what*he appropriated. And
the German point of view is of some import-
ance. So long as he remains in charge of
conquered territories in Europe he holds a
trump card in relation to his oversea
colonies —a point that is of more than casual
significance to Australia. The future of
these localities is just as doubtful as it was
three years ago. Still, thank Heaven!
there is a chance of permanently getting rid
of an undesirable neighbor—fully _ three
recruits flocked to the colors in Victoria one
day last week !
i ■
The entirely idiotic proceedings in Australia
arranged by the wild-men of N. S. Wales
had, at the beginning of the week, reached
sheer farce. Thousands of unionists who
had nothing to do with the alleged cause
of the strike were resolutely abstaining from
work, and thousands of the men who were
directly connected with the alleged cause
aforesaid were back where they were before.
According to the Railway Commissioners 55
per cent, of the strikers in the service had
returned to toil. So great was the popularity
of the outbreak that every time anyone
suggested taking a ballot among the unions
he was promptly denounced as an enemy of
solidarity among the proletariat, anxious to
aid and abet W. M. Hughes in his nefarious
scheme for crushing unionism. The whole
situation is wildly grotesque. A majority
of the railway and tramway men—and a
huge majority too —are certainly against the
strike. What, then, in the name of the
Great National Destiny, do the seamen and
the miners and the wharfies and the butchers
and the carters want to be pretending that
they are in favor of it for?
«
FROM Petrograd : -
The most hopeful sign at the moment is the sup-
port granted to the new order by practically all
classes outside the red-raggers and the reactionaries.
It was interesting to note, working in full co-opera-
tion with such Radicals as Kerensky and the Labor
leader Tcheidze, the cream of bourgeois intellectual-
ism and commerce in the persons of Miliukov,
Shtnoarieff, Konvaloff, Terestchenko and Gutch-
koff. Miliukov, leader of the Cadets in the old
Duma, is an ex-professor and traveller, moderate
and conciliatory in bis politics. Shingarieff is a
doctor, Konvaloff a wealthy textile manufacturer,
Terestchenko a beet-sugar king. They are all good
types of the Russian Liberal, which is Ivan’s nearest
approach to the English Tory Democrat, though the
Russian sample has bigger ideals and more democracy.
Gutchkoff, the most personally attractive of the lot,
is a hanker and great traveller who has peeped into
some of the remotest secrets of the Tibetan tableland.
He will live in Russian history as the man who
personally received the typewritten abdication of
Nicholas Romanoff.
Groom, in temporary charge of the War
Time Profits Bill the other day, had to talk
persuasively to convince the Reps that the
exemption of businesses carried on “by a
religious, charitable or public educational in-
stitution,” wasn’t loaded. Bruce Smith sug-
gested that a pawnbrokery might escape the
tax by calling itself a religious body, and
Groom reckoned it was possible, but unlikely.
Perhaps it is unlikely, but one never knows.
Plenty queer things happen in the name of
religion. One remembers, for instance, bow
the German schools in Victoria awhile back
bellowed that the Federal Government
couldn’t shut them up, because they were
“religious institutions,” and the Constitu-
tion forbade interference with anybody’s re-
ligion, or something like that. That particu-
lar bluff missed, but it pointed a moral, all
the same.
In bis Peace note the Pope amiably adopted
the Germans’ old parrot-cry of “the Freedom
cf the Seas.” The Hun never said what the
thing meant —never got down to precise
terms. How is this freedom to be ensured?
How else than by forbidding all nations to
build battleships and submarines? By mak-
ing the manufacture of mines an international
offence? By passing an all-round law against
marine blockading while allowing sieges on
land as of old? “Freedom of the Seas” was
a catch-cry, invented by Germany as an ex-
cuse for murdering women and children on
the ocean highway, and echoed by President
Wilson at the time when he was still seeking
excuses for not going to war. Is it likely
that any Power at any time will approve of
the enemy’s transport of troops under a
Freedom-of-the-Seas agreement; or is it pos-
sible that such transport could be prevented
without interfering with somebody’s free-
dom ?
Last week Prime Minister Hughes
expressed regret to a Herald reporter that
he had made incorrect remarks in Parlia-
ment upon a certain baker. To think that
the Labor party should have turned down
a Prime Minister capable of discussing the
nationality and business methods of an
individual baker as a matter of national im-
portance ! The Trades Halls will never get
a statesman more after their own little
hearts than Billy Hughes.
An unofficial but confident statement comes
from Adelaide that the next Agent-General is
to be Edward Lucas, Irish by birth, tailor
and outfitter by trade. He is 60, has been
in Australia since he was 20, and during his
residence at Gawler (S.A.) was mayor and
pretty well everything else possible there.
Ever since Federation he has been in the
S.A. Leg. Council, and has been leader of the
Liberal party in it since John Duncan died.
He is not needed in London till next
January, when J’red Young will have served
bis three years at the job.
Dear Bulletin, —As I am not permitted
to reply in Hansard, I rise for a personal
explanation in you. While Mr. Finlayson
was reviewing Territorial matters in the
Reps. Mr. W. Kelly said: —
Why do you give countenance to the obviously untrue
statement of Mr. Bedford that any member of this
House wishes to infringe the White Australia policy
for the Northern Territory ?
Mr. Kelly at his old trick of putting up
straw men to knock them down again! I
did not say that “any member of this House
wishes to infringe the White Australia
policy.” I said that “I believed many of the
Liberals of the new Parliament to be suspect
of complaisance or agreement in this matter”
—the matter of getting rid of the Territory
at a bargain-sale price. I repeat the state-
ment of that belief, and in support of it cite
the earlier statements and general attitude of
J. Cook, Bruce Smith and W. Kelly.—Yours,
Randolph B.
Hughes is giving “fullest consideration”
to the question of an Anti-Shouting Bill.
The odd thing is that Anglican parsons
haven’t introduced prayer on the subject
into the Litany long ago: “Though we ought
at all times to avoid spirituous liquor, yet
ought we most chiefly so to do when two> or
there are gathered together in Friendship's
name.”
Before the Kaiser smashed the piano and
broke up the concert of Europe, Australia
imported 98 per cent, of its railway steel,
and the 2 per cent, was used on the Trans-
continental line only. To-day all the States
are using Australian rails, and experts are
unanimous that they are better than the
imported. We are now even exporting some
to Britain. It all amounts to the most
bitter vote of censure on every politician
who has been in power in Australia during
the past 15 years.
The Peace talk reminds one of streaky
bacon. First comes the fat, greasy layer of
suggestion that Germany is anxious to make
peace without annexations, and offer cash
atonement for her sins; then the lean, dry
“warning from well-informed neutrals” that
Germany is still taking its ideas of Peace
from the Kaiser.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion • • ********** “You’re in Ijove”
Her Majesty’s navT
Palace V.’.’V.’.’ “Look Who’s Here”
JrC VOLI Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Theatre’ Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cmema Star
royal “Outcast
King’s “Julius Caesar”
Princess’s “Seven Days Leave
IVOLI Mclntosh s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt's Dii Luxe & OLYiiriA Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
AlllliX Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Last Saturday, at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
Maude J’ane stepped into the shoes Dorothy
Brunton had worn as Suzanne in “The Girl
in the Taxi,” and Dorothy was there in a
flower-decked box to see how she did it and
lead the applause. It is the sort of critical
compliment that is permitted to actresses
but forbidden to Governors. The official
world would blow up if a retiring Ex. not
only stayed in the State till his successor
arrived but attended the new Cocked Hat’s
fust opening of Parliament and applauded
tumultuously. Maude, it is understood, would
have started off with
a fresh part in “You’re
in Love,” but the
strike happened and
the reliable Taxi was
cranked up again lor
a week. So she had
to invite comparisons
with Maggie Jarvis
and the Girl in
the Box. A very cred-
itable showing «F.e
made, too, and she
will make a better
when she has grown
used to the centre of
the big stage and for-
gotten a bad trick of
unleashing an occa-
sional pealing top
note. She has a talent
for burlesque, and
when she gets a
chance to show it
J.C.W. audiences will
clamor for more.
Remember her imita-
tion of a serious young
suburban wife in a
shocking hat and
macintosh. It was a
joyous interlude. One
of the accidental
“The Girl in the
Taxi,” at Sydney
Majesty's.
Field Fisher as
Alexis, the Head
Waiter.
humors of the present revival is Connie
Tddiss imprisoned in a grey wig as
the correct, devoted and innocent Baroness
who knows nothing of midnight cham-
pagne. Field Fisher repeats his mas-
terly performance of the bald and decor-
ous head-waiter who is a sort of world-
weary soup-archbishop. Workman, as the
meek little husband of delicious Suzanne,
minces fondly in plainclothes and howls in
uniform for the blood of his rivals. Bob
Greig fills a fat actor’s part comfortably as
the late-supping Baron, and Cecil Bradley
makes a charming Jacqueline. The natural
angularity of Fred Maguire helps him in his
job of schoolboy-rake out on his first adven-
ture, and Jack Hooker and little Rita
Nugent do an eccentric dance that gets three
well-deserved recalls. “You’re in Love”
makes a start on Saturday.
•t' & v
Evidently Cyril Maude on his Australian
tour is out to beat his record of 1025 per-
formances of “Grumpy” in England and
America. The time seems yet far off when
the old man will cease from troubling and
his “kittens” be at rest at Sydney Criterion.
* * * *
Though the show at Sydney Palace bears
a vague resemblance to the entertainment
closed down by the strike a fortnight ago,
Sydney James and Jack Waller dress the
window with a sufficient variety of new
goods to attract the public again to “Look
Who’s Here.” These entertainers have dis-
covered the secret of being musical without
being miserable. The cleverest new item is
the dinner set to music, in which the whole
clever company take part. The shopping
scene and the burlesque of “The Whip” are
rather obvious and conventional fooling ; but
the clever idea in Leonard Durell’s potted
piny lends itself admirably to genuine humor.
This big company of artistic specialists
suffers from an excess of generosity: on
Saturday evening they gave three hours of
real entertainment, which is 30 minutes too
much when one isn’t quite certain when—or
if—the last tram goes.
* * * *
u l ' h l- i li ? ht r, 4^'. minute show P«t on by the
sub-edited Jollies is about the brightest
thmg Sydney Tivoli has to offer these nights.
Mabelle Morgan s costumes are better than
her Principal Boyishness, the three pairs
of entertainers whom the Tivoli advt. men-
tions with subdued pride fail to interest anA
the well-nourished lady who travels oh h
laugh makes the writer remember lfis w
boat. The management should send ‘in
rockets and hurry the reserves un to hA
front trenches.
Sydney movies this week :
Hoyt’s: “The Ware Case,” the film of the stair
murder-mystery play, with Matheson Lang as the
victim of wine and women.
Lyceum: “Mother of Dartmoor,” Eden Philpotts’
entertaining novel, “The Mother,” photoed.
Crystal Palace: “The Flame of the Yukon”
seven acts of vigorous days in Alaska.
“The Merry Widow” is spending the cur-
rent week at Melbourne Majesty’s, where
Reginald Roberts again lures Florence
Young into the summer-house. Both tread
the path of giddiness with their whole heart
and voice, and Florence continues also to
provide space for the last bulletins of
Fashion. One of her confections resembles
winter moonlight on Lake Wendouree-
another recalls a silver fish upholstered in
red cabbage. Baron Popoff resumes the part
of Phil Smith and makes that meagre char-
acter peculiarly his own, and Leslie Holland
forces Danilo to keen in step with Father
Time. Holland evidently desires to refute
the idea that musical-comedy heroes never
grow old. Ethel Cadmau and Minnie Love
alternate the job of Sonia. As Ethel figured
very tunefully on Saturday, the widow would
be a labor of Love on Monday, Wednesday
and J’riday. The gentle Minnie will offer
more Sonia to the hunter of her 20 millions
but she will find the vocal climbing scan-
dalous for her meek little pipe. A week of
“The Cinema Star” follows next Saturday,
and after that “Mr. Manhattan” is threat-
ened.
■f £ #
St. John Hankin, author of “The Charity
that Began at Home,” staged lately at Mel-
bourne Playhouse, is the British dramatist
to whom Wilde bequeathed his talent for in-
venting special forms of foolishness for the
uppah classes. In this comedy Hankin in-
troduces a typical Wilde aristocraf, Lady
Denison, who, urged to the benevolence by a
social reformer, Basil Hylton, regularly
week-ends disagreeable people. The result of
the good lady’s interference with the unfor-
tunates’ privacy is a series of polite alterca-
tions that take the foreground during the
dramatist’s retirements to fabricate epigrams
on two leading events. These particular hap-
penings are a maid’s misbehavior and a
good girl’s unsuccessful endeavor to get
married ; but they only serve the purpose of
threads on which the author strings his
beads of dialogue. Hankin’s comedy is
almost pure conversation affording the maxi-
mum of sententiousness with the minimum
of mental exertion. Gregan McMahon’s co.
played the piece with almost general success.
Mrs. Edith Eccles presented Lady Denison as
a figure of perpetual apology and compromise
who seemed rather- underdressed without a
lorgnette. Her irresolution was illustrated
in the furniture of her drawing-room, which
showed her inability to make up her mind in
favor of any one style. Her daughter Mar-
gery, rather unreal in her goody-goodiness,
was portrayed by Miss Evelyn Cooke with
an artifice so artless that it made the charac-
ter almost probable. Trevor Thorgood was
Basil Hylton; Miss Jane English suggested
the fault of the maid, Anson, with sufficient
discretion to make the scandal well-bred; and
Gregan McMahon was capital as an anecdo-
tal general possessed of a frenzy for making
short stories long.
“GRUMPY," AT SYDNEY CRITERION
Grumpy (Cyril Maude) shows some of the
lovableness of his character to his valet.
“Seven Days’ Leave’’ retains its grip at
Melbourne Princess’s, not because the sink-
ing of the submarine is any great shakes as
a sensation, but on account of the vivacious
air that pervades the foolishness of it all.
Besides, a war melodrama is always accept-
able if it doesn’t trample on the feelings of
slackers. The only slacker who gets into
trouble in “Seven Days’ Leave’’ is the comic
conscientious objector, an incidental minor
character neatly played by a young novice
mummer named Norman Lee. And fmy


HENKES'
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely Ideal tonlo.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
n
w
*
* wm.
raA a*ss ,? r aM
s [j?" s . concliis 3 cfoirit which is specially recommended by the medical
SSjSTto B TLse Pl suVinrfrom P rheum y atism, kidney complaints and
kindred ailments.
DISTINCTLY DEMAND “QILBEY’S
Refuse Substitutes
TUCKER & CO.. Sole Agents for N.B.W
For Keeping Cool
—for that pleasing freedom from underwear-discomfort when the
days grow hot—wear Peapes’ India Gauze garments. The fine cotton
gauze is light and porous, but is reinforced with spliced seats.
Durable, cool, comfortable. Part of last-year's purchase held over—
therefore still economical in price.
Undershirts:
Trunk Drawers, 6d. less.
We pay postage. Mention chest and waist meamr<i.ments.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 GERQE STREET, SYDNEY.
ordinary shirker can afford to laugh at his
hypocritical cousin, the Conscientious Objec-
tor.
These are the very last nights of “Much
Ado” at Melbourne King’s, for on Saturday
they are putting up our respected old friend
“Julius Caesar.” Times must have changed
since Brough and Boucicault ran “Much
Ado” for 12 short weeks. The present pro-
duction is as interesting as the rather more
ornamental show of long ago, yet it isn’t
worth the while of Bailey and Grant to carry
it to the end of a five-weeks’ season. “Julius
Caesar,” whereof great things are promised,
can only run for a fortnight in the first
place.
Even “Daddy Long Legs,” at Melbourne
Royal, is coming to an end on Friday, despite
its earnest appeal to the artless. On Satur-
day the bill will be “The Outcast,” a young
woman vastly different from the heroine in
gentle “Daddy.” Kathlene Macdonell ap-
pears as the very different young person.
“MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING,” AT
MELBOURNE KING'S.
Edmund Duggan as Dogberry, and Willie
Driscoll as V erges, both giving advice.
“Jean S.” further discusses the row over
a. recent art show :
I am strengthened in my respect for Max Meldrum
by “War Hawk’s” statement (B. 23/8/’ 17), inasmuch
as his main complaint is an insinuation that a new
school of art is being favored at the expense of the
old kindergarten which used to celebrate its academ-
ical fatuity at past exhibitions. For 15 years I
have walked the exhibitions of Melbourne in immi-
nent danger of receiving heat apoplexy at the hands
of disgracefully-encouraged dabblers in light pro-
blems, who, toiling to picture things they cannot
optically assimilate, have generally given us, as the
whole sum of their achievement, sea-beach or moun-
tain scenery enjoying a sun-bath, or some reckless and
abortive effort to marry a Lister Lister gum-tree
to a Hans Heysen afternoon. The respectable sub-
urbanness of the stuff has made me very , tired of the
alleged light in our art, though I can still sufficiently
forget my sufferings to say again: Let there be light,
if it is light as the great Hilder saw it —that is,
with the reservation that the pantomimic color of
the warmest noon is not comparable in cumulative
pictorial subtlety with some of the finer shades of
twilight. The fact that Hilder also made exquisite
studies of dull clay-pits should warn “War Hawk”
that “cultivators of the Drab” might be a brilliant
and exclusive company. As regards the unnamed
genius whose 2 4-months-old masterpiece was rejected
as a “studio picture,” I can only remark that a man
lacking, say, the fastidious genius of a Whistler
might in two years paint all the art out of his work
and make it a mere record of imperfectly-realised
intentions. As to the declaration that Turner and
Corot painted studio pictures, I dare only confess
that it confirms my worst suspicions. Also I do not
mind “War Hawk” mentioning Alma-Tadema, Hol-
man Hunt and the rest to demonstrate his extensive
acquaintance with the classics. I only dimly wonder
ar. his singular feat of reticence in omitting any
allusion to Bernard Hall and the Hon. John Collier.
Kitty Gordon is the paramount feature of
Melbourne Majestic bill this week. Kitty
represents Everyman’s half-hour in “The
Beloved Adventuress,” and she ekes out her
small dramatic substance with a wealth of
eloquent spinal column. “Baubs o’ the Blue
Ridge,” the latest Triangle film, provides
some stiff work for Bessie Barriscale among
precipitous mountain scenery. Arthur
Shirley, the Australian actor, has also a crag
in this rock-strewn tale.
“The Ware Case,” screened by the Hoyt
firm in Melbourne on Saturday, is a select
album of views of Matheson Lang. The
actor is numerously photographed as the
malignant and mischievous Hubert Ware.
In fact, when this paper adjourned its census
on Saturday he had registered 147 different
expressions appropriate to his calling. Two
pretty Englishwomen. Miss Violet Hopson
and Miss Ivy Close, appear as the heroine
and wicked houri of the story, and their
respective portraits are tonics to an eye
gorged with the details of Matheson Lang.
Hoyt’s follow-on is “God’s Law and Man’s,”
an express run from Sorrow to Happiness,
with Viola Dana on the footplate, as it were.
* * *
The newest artists at Melbourne Tivoli are
Harry Roxbury and Alice Bennetto combined
in a song and burlesque turn suitable for
invalids on a milk diet. The pair may be
funny in a little way, but they seem to be
only taking the rest cure in some old scraps
ol: “business.” Joe Reed has altered his act
to include a prolonged sob over a Dago and
a rose, but the yarn fails to affect the Mel-
bourne citizen. If Joe had adorned his tale
with a loaf or a chop, even Addie Pankhurst
would have been moved to tears. All the
others are the same. as before, but the
Camille Trio are getting ready for departure.
Also supple Ruth Budd is approaching the
exit, wherefore the present writer regretfully
charges his glass for one last look at the
charming nymph.
❖ ❖ >jc
From an Adelaide critic:—
Stewart Handasyde, Victorian painter now settled
in Adelaide, has a one-man show in the Society of
Arts rooms. His work is curiously varied. When he
takes time and trouble he is quite worth while, but
as seen in this show he commonly doesn’t and isn’t.
Half a dozen pictures are delightful, showing gums,
hills in the distance, cloud or sunshine—landscape
always. The rest are hasty things, and a stern
hanging committee would have done the show good
by declining most of them. In particular there is
evident a lack of power by Mr. Handasyde to paint
seashore rocks, with a fixed determination on his
part to keep on doing so.
Adelaide Tivoli has begun, through the
agency of the Anderson Co., an inquiry into
the private and particular troubles of the
Devil, in the form of “The Sorrows of
Satan,” the Corelli story making a striking
drama. At the Royal the “Turn to the
Right” people are about to experiment in
something very American but hardly known
in Australia. Prince’s players put up a
“Midnight Club” at the Majestic; it is just
an excuse for another helping of song-and-
dance. Alsace makes good music, and there
are good-quality “sketches” also on the bill.
West’s Pictures have been trying to find out
Who Killed John Argyle ; Wondergraph had
crowded houses for “The Libertine,” which
laid stress on the old problem, Is ignorance
innocence? Douglas Fairbanks, in a really
funny production, now leaves a much better
taste in the mouth. Italian Opera is prom-
ised at the King’s. And the easy, birdlike
Evelyn Scotney, with her robust White part-
ner, has been doing well at the Queen’s.
Old “Wingen” Abbott can still write an
interesting letter to show how the squatters
would have made the country great and rich
if they had only been left alone. Things
were going right until 1890 ; then Labor was
born and all the trouble started, so that in-
stead of having 200.000.000 or so sheep we
have only about 70,000,000. As a matter
of fact, up to the early ’9o’s the sheep-grow-
ing business in Australia was conducted in
a simply wicked manner. As Abbott says,
flocks had increased; but, because the real
pastoral country of Australia wasn’t in any
sense worked, as soon as the rabbits came
it was so overstocked that irreparable dam-
age vyas done. Instead of being patriots,
who were laying the foundations of national
wealth, most of those old squatters were
spendthrifts of the nation’s heritage, and
except in rare cases there is not two-penn’-
orth of thanks coming to them. They fat-
tened on the cream of the country ; and when
the cream was gone, they mostly came very
near starving. To say that, had there been
no new land legislation, the flocks would
have gone on increasing, is therefore as ab-
surd a thing as ever came out of Wingen.
There are volumes of proof of that in the
evidence given by the squatters themselves
on the N. S. Wales reappraisements in ’94
and thereabouts.
“Melb”: The Adela Pankhurst row outside
Parliament House recalls one of over GO
years ago. Berry, Don, Gray and others
used to harangue crowds at Paddy’s Market
by night, claiming the unlocking of the
lands. One night the mob, incited by its
orators, surged up to Parliament yard. After
tumultuous excitement the lion, gents, in-
side passed a resolution declaring all public
meetings there illegal, and that order still
stands.
T. J. Ley, Nat’onalist M.L.A. for Hurst-
ville (N.S.W.), the other night said that
he believed most honorable members were
worth anything up to fifteen hundred a year,
but to set a good example they should
reduce their screw from £5OO to £3OO per
annum. At this point he dramatically pro-
duced two round robins—one for the Gov-
ernment, the other for the Opposition, ask-
ing the Treasurer to oblige by lopping off
the £2OO. Of course everybody said it was
a mean little device on Ley’s part to get an
advt. It may have been —but nobody signed.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Bellair” : W. J. (Bill) Lincoln, recently
buried, was undoubtedly the pioneer of the
Australian picture-producing industry. After
collaborating with Alfred Dampier in a
couple of Australian plays (not cino), one
of which, “Captain Moonlight,” achieved a
fair measure of success, he was with JYley-
nell, Gunn and Clarke in their early days. I
remember Bill as manager with the buxom
Florence Baines, and I give him pride of
place as a prolific writer of striking adver-
tisements. Turning his attention to picture
shows, Lincoln ran Paradise (St. Kilda) for
a while, then joined J.C.W., Ltd., where he
scenarioed and part-directed several Yankee
plays for Niblo and Muriel Starr. He de-
voted his spare time to picture-making, turn-
ing out subjects which compared more than
favorably with the imported article. His
best were “The Sick Stockrider.” “After
Sundown,” “Le Revanche,” “The Bells” and
“Adam Lindsay Gordon.”
Bert Bailey intends shortly bringing Dad
again under the notice of Melbourne. But
his whiskers will be 20 years older than
when they last bristled at the sight, of Billy
Bearup. Not only Dad, but Mum, Dave
and some of the other selection folk figure
in Steele Rudd’s new play, “Grandad Rudd.”
War is indeed Hell. At Port Pirie (S.A.)
the chief —in fact, according to the superin-
tendent, almost sole —source of lead-supply
for the Allies, industry is so brisk that, to
find lodging-room for newcomers, a boarding-
house has actually been made at the sacri-
fice of—a picture-theatre !
“Si-Eeda Bloke” from Palestine :
Despite the popularity of the Sentimental Bloke
among the troops and their fondness for introducing
Dennis’s characters I have met only one Australian who
has publicly portrayed Mick. Private Edward Scott, of
the A.A.M.C., working among the sick and wounded
in the Egyptian Desert, is a Victorian who was in
Westralia when he threw in his lot with the A.I.F.
He is one of those unobtrusive men who have a
habit of doing good wherever they go. Out here
Billjim and Tommy Atkins love their amusements,
and the most popular is
a concert either at a
camp fire or in the
Y.M.C.A. huts that fol-
low the troops. It is
here that Scott has
proved himself one of
the best; and many a
tired, homesick, war-
ridden Anzac has forgot-
ten his troubles listen-
ing to Scott’s rendering
of “The Play” or “The
Spring Song.” Night
after night has he de-
lighted his hearers with
selections from either
the “Sentimental Bloke”
or “Ginger Mick,” and
had to respond to voci-
ferous encores. From
Tel-el-Kebir to the Pales-
tine border Scott has
sung the praises of the
one-time inhabitants of
Spadger’s Lane and
Little Lons; and all in addition to his daily duty of
tending the sick and wounded. Listening to him we
are taken back over miles of ocean to the continent
down under where
“The little birds are chirpin’ in the trees
And parks and gardens are a bosker sight,”
and the desert sand loses for the time its forbidding
aspect as we hear once again the familiar slang and
follow the fortunes of the one-time Melbourne larrikin
through the training-camp to the last day on Gal-
lipoli, when Ginger Mick said “Mafeesh”; or visit
the farm with the Sentimental Bloke and hear his
eulogies on Doreen and the Kid. New items come
at intervals, but always the crowd calls for the old
favorites. Scott has rendered practically the whole
of the two books—a tax on memory that is to say
the least heavy—and this in itself is worthy of
record, apart from the spirit of unselfishness that has
prompted the work of love in entertaining the soldiers
on this Front. By a strange coincidence Mrs. Scott
possesses the same Christian name as the heroine
of the “Sentimental Bloke,” and it would not be
out of place here to record for her benefit the wish
of all who have come in contact with her husband,
that she and her Sentimental Bloke may enjoy the
same happiness that the originals had.
Elderly young Tom Pollard is still at it.
At present he is busy as producer of “La
Mascotte” by Wellington (M.L.) amateurs.
“Stargazer,” who began it, ends it: —
Disputants who differ as “0.K.” and I do on the
true inwardness of Gilbert’s humor are not likely
to be reconciled with regard to the theatrical inter-
pretation thereof. “0.K.” says Gilbertian humor is
in “the absurd placing of characters.” I do not
deny that quaint effects are sometimes produced by
this displacement, but I hold that “the best Gilbertian
effects are secured by wanton contrast between the
man and his spoken thought.” The humor of the
operas is largely the humor of the “Bab Ballads,"
the humor of unexpected sentiment. “O.lv.’s”- own
illustration is all against him. I say John Welling-
ton Wells in “The Sorcerer” is funny chiefly because
he is an ordinary, little, brisk business man applying
the common, chirpy attitudes and the common cant
of a town traveller to the black art, usually grim,
grave, creepy and mysterious. “0.K.” says it is
due to his being “absurdly placed.” Really he would
be funny in any situation. Pooh Bah, to my mind,
owes his humorousness to the fact that he, an aristo-
crat of extremest hauteur, a nobleman, of primeval
protoplasmic ancestry, is going about openly inviting
bribes and offering himself for menial services.
“0.K.” says he ow'es it to his being absurdly placed.
Ko-Ko is funny mainly because he is a Lord High
Executioner making some show of living up to his
fearful office, yet temperamentally incapable of
slaughtering a blowfly, and must talk and behave
as a gentle sentimental commonplace person. “0.K.”
says he is funny because he is “absurdly placed.”
There is some truth here, but rob Ko-Ko’s lines of
the Gilbertian inversion, and neither “0.K.” nor 1
will find him worth arguing about. Apply my
analysis to almost any conspicuously humorous char-
acter of Gilbert’s and it works, place the character
where you please.
4( “Geebung”: While “Stargazer” and
‘O.K.” are locked in a death-grapple over
the brand of Ko-Ko each prefers, take a
glance at the Howard Vernon of these times.
In a N. S. Wales North Coast town recently
a dingy, mud-splashed motor-car rattled up
loaded on both sides with old basket carry-
alls. Out from the lumber crawled Vernon,
his wife and two others. They were plaving
the very small river towns seldom visited by
travelling cos. At one township—right up
on the Queensland border—l saw a hand-
written placard in the pub. At the foot of
it: “Admission, Is.”
“The Cracked Tenor”: A Bulletin Mel-
bourne show-critic says 1 am very cracked.
Of course, this is a complete answer to any
observations I may have made concerning
the Verbrugghen quartet and the Cherniav-
skys. Yet I discover that he is, on the main
question, practically in agreement with me!
He says that “the people” ought to be edu-
cated, and that is all I have contended for.
When they are educated—even moderately,
if you like —we may hope that they will no
longer confuse the well-balanced and har-
monious playing of the Verbrugghen quartet
with the showmen’s tricks of the Cherniav-
skys. That day, however, is a long way
off yet, I’m afraid, when we find a responsi-
ble critic seriously implying that Beethoven’s
quartets are not richly colored.
“C. Ockney” : Reported missing, and pre-
sumably killed through falling over a York-
shire cliff, Hubert Henry Davies, one of
Britain’s brightest dramatists. His touch
was light but sure, and his technique hard
to beat. His comedies, including “Cousin
Kate,” “Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace,” “Cap-
tain Drew on Leave,” “Doormats,” “The
Mollusc” and “Outcasts,” several of them
seen in Australia, were remarkable for their
short casts, which argues unusual construc-
tive ability in the playwright.
“French Rule” : One of the characters in
Jo Smith’s play, “The Reveille,” has a line,
“I’m sorry the damn war ever started!” Jo
believed this was original, until he met an old
stager who told the story of an earlier use
of the gag. When George Rignold was pro-
ducing “Henry V.” in Brisbane, one Rivers
had to take the part of Mountjoy at short
notice. He stewed it up as best he could,
and an hour before the curtain rose investi-
gated his wardrobe. He found that his pre-
decessor’s togs were a world too wide, but
with the aid of safety-pins and string he put
tucks in his doublet and reefs in his hose,,
and at the cue strode before the Court with
the gait of a trussed fowl. Henry V. took
one glance, and in a roar that shook the
seats at the back of the pit exclaimed: “G
!” This knocked the stuffing out of the
fowl, who fell off his perch after two lines.
He looked at the prompter in agony, couldn’t
get it, and fled, with this valedictory : “Well,
all I can say, gentlemen, is that it’s a great
pity this war ever started !”
(Continued on page 26.)
THE REAL THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
To young Sid Mulga’s great delight,
I said we d push “behind” one night
And see the wheels that made it go—
This glittering pantomimic show.
Down dusty passages, upstairs
Where girls passed singly, or in pairs;
Blue pencilled eye, and powdered nose,
And cheeks ablush with carmined rose.
The costumes for each gorgeous scene
Screamed for the cleaner and benzine;
The glittering sheaves by peasants gleaned—>
Act I—now in the corner leaned.
Young Mulga, glum and bitter-eyed,
Walked disillusioned by my side ;
And then a splendid creature came
With pouting lips and eyes of flame.
Two strips of ninon and much hose
Upon her served by way of clothes.'
“My oath, this show’s the dinkum deal,”
Young Mulga whooped —“her legs arc real !’■
N.s.w.
F. F.


LADIES!
YOUR PERSONAL
Strike No w, and Never Cease Striking
to get the very best. It pays.
APPEARANCE is A PRECIOUS ASSET. CULTIVATE ITI
JohnStwwwiktos'
Hair Food
y/farartjNyyfc^
Hair Grower
OIBtCTIOHa
mn tftFlCtmmmmylna-r*.-*'
. . »KAKI TU BOTTtI „ „
iou can cleanse your pores, rejuvenate your skin, bring a healthy
glow to your cheeks, with
JS trange w
inter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS. USED BY ROYALTY.
Will not harm the most delicate skin.
Lakshmi Cream or Lotion, New Face Cream (2 colors). Powder (3
tints). Dental Cream. Dry Shampoo. Soap. Hair Foods (Oily and
Non-Oily), Carmine Perspiration Powder.
Ask for them at the Civil Service, Washington H. Soul’s, Lassetter’s,
McCathie’s, David Jones’, Horderns’, Farmer and Co.’s, W. T. Waters’,
McDowell Ltd., etc., etc., etc.
Send 2d. stamp for sample of Soap or Powder (name the tint) or
Dental Cream to John Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome). Sydney
office: 31 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street. Melbourne office: 331 Collins
Street. Adelaide office: Steamship Buildings, Currie Street.
vVeltonian
▼ t high-class
SPECIALTIES _
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD
Barrack St., Sydney ;
Russell St.. Melbourne, j
E. BROWN @ SON 5 LONDON
AflF.NriM . AVI . /%■»._
WORLD
ALL • OVER
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegautly-
Lurnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
I. sher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
Be Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINEURY
* * * *
M hen Trooper Billjim crossed to Canaan :
The arrival of the Light Horse in Palestine has
meant hard work and the sternest fighting we have
had since leaving- Gallipoli. However it has its
compensations. Instead of the Sinai Desert, we
have a land of green crops, abundant grass and
beautifully-kept orchards, all in the possession of
Bedouin tribes. A belt of sand about a mile wide
still follows the coast; otherwise the land is undu-
lating and intersected by wadis similar to our own
dry sandy creeks.
I owards the end of March a large force of all
arms crossed the border at Rafa and attacked Gaza.
The Turks were strongly entrenched in tin- hills,
THE LEVELLER.
LADY: "I want a miniature of myself."
KEEN PHOTOGRAPHER: “Yes, madam. And
how about an enlargement of your hus-
band?"
one redoubt, Ali Muntar, being a second Aehi Baba.
While the infantry made a frontal attack, the L.H.
moved along the Turkish left flank and round to
Ihe north of the town, completely isolating it.
Pushing into the outskirts here, the Maorilanders
and Australians met little opposition, and after
some sharp fighting amongst the cactus hedges (all
boundaries are marked by these horrors), rushed two
field-guns and captured them. Two Maorilanders,
though never trained to artillery work, immedi-
ately turned them against some huts held by Turks
and routed them out. The guns were sighted
through the open breech and the time-fuse shells
had to take their chance, like the bright lads behind
them. The M.L.’s won much kudos over this.
Orders coming through to retire, our reluctant
boys did so about 10 p.m., taking the captured
pieces with them, though fully of the opinion that
they could have held on through the night. Subse-
quently we heard on good authority that the enemy
had so far realised the seriousness of their position
that they had buried their guns and w r ere prepared
to surrender the following morning if again
attacked. The bulk of the prisoners were taken by
our boys, amongst them a Turkish divisional com-
mander and staff.
From this time on preparations followed for a
further attack, which took place about a fortnight
later. Under-estimating the enemy forces, a gen-
eral attack was launched all along their line, the
L.H. again on the left flank. Heavy fighting en-
sued, with varying success, but the gains were
negligible. The Turkish defence was most reso-
lute, their positions strong and well chosen, and
their artillery support excellent. Constant patrol
work followed on the flank towards Beersheba, re-
sulting at different times in the capture of a couple
of troops of Turkish cavalry. Of these some were
well mounted and equipped and a fine type of sol-
dier ; the others were mere Bedouin scavengers,
mounted on a surprising assortment of animals,
comprising weedy Arab donkeys, camels and small
native cattle. All were well armed.
During the week of the full moon our railhead
camps were subjected to such a merciless bombing by
enemy aircraft that moonlight lost all its glamor
and nightfall wasn’t looked forward to. The hospi-
tal tents, being conspicuous, suffered the most
heavily. Many sick fellows who came in hoping
for rest and safety were killed in their beds, and
the patients’ nerves were strained to breaking point.
Time may show whether the attacks on the hospi-
tals were deliberate or otherwise. We don’t like to
think they were, for most of us have a sincere
respect for Johnny Turk as a fighting man.
* * * »
State Frights was put to a strange use at
Broken Hill lately when the municipal sani-
tary staff refused to attend to the local police
barracks. At its outset Government Health-
Officer Dr. Bartley vainly tried to quash the
scandal by writing some commonsense to the
A.M.A. secretary:—
Every disorganisation of the sanitary service is
followed by death and disease. Those responsible
would be more humane if they plunged a knife into
their victims, who will not be the police, for they are
here to-day and gone before the seed sprouts. The
victims will be the wives and kiddies of your
society to the greatest extent. If your society in-
tends to persist in its policy of murder, for Heaven’s
sake devise something that will not cause such dread-
ful suffering to the little ones!
Later the strike bosses informed a respectful
deputation from the Municipal Council that
they would “consent” to send the scavengers
back to their job, provided the South Aus-
tralian police, then in town, were sent home.
So apparently the potential murder of
women and kids in the future didn’t count
so long as State Frights weren’t insulted in
the present. The helpless Council let it go
at that, and besought the Police Superinten-
dent to get rid of the aliens from over the
border as soon as he could, so that the place
might be cleaned up. It was a great triumph
for State Frights backed by Direct Action.
* * * *
“Bridge” : Owing to the war the Board of
Trade regulations have been swept to one
side. One rule is that every
ocean-going vessel shall be
overhauled in dry dock at
least every six months. But
owing to the shortage of bot-
toms time cannot be spared
to do the docking, and ships
1 have been on have gone as
long as 12 months without
examination. Still. I don’t
object so much to that. The
old practice can be suspended
without serious prejudice to
life. But owing to the U-boat
menace other regulations
ought to be more diligently in-
sisted upon than ever; yet
they are left in abeyance
with the rest. For instance,
one stipulates that lifeboats
must be lowered into the
water at least once a month.
The skipper of the ship I last
served on —not under him, I
might add —would not hear of
a boat being lowered from
its davits, and to my know-
ledge eight months elapsed during which
boats did not touch the water. There was
positively no excuse for this, as they could
have been lowered in port without delaying
operations an hour.
“Trist”: What strikes the Tommy officer
is the initiative and resource of the Austra-
lian. Well, he has to be able to do a thing
or two, or there’d be times when he couldn’t
even have a funeral. I never realised
that so much as when I dropped into a fair-
sized N. S. Wales-Queensland border town-
ship and found (the place being too healthy
to support an undertaker) the publican, the
local constable and the schoolmaster busy
knocking a coffin together on the pub’s back
verandah.
* * * *
“Wirefence’s” tale of grit and mateshin :
When one of the Darcys was hurt at Hall’s Creek
in the Far Nor’-West of Australia, his brothers
Walter and Thomas started out on the night of
August 1 from Wyndham, 250 miles, to succor him.
At 140 miles, Turkey Creek, they changed horses
and covered the last 110 miles in 15 hours. The
ride was done without blankets and with little food.
They found their brother in a critical condition from
a fall from a horse. There was no doctor within a
thousand miles, yet the only hope was in immediate
operation. They wired Perth (1822 miles), and
arranged for a doctor to leave on a boat on the
9th. In the meantime Mr. Tuckett, the postmaster
FORCE OF HABIT.
THE POLITICIAN'S WIFE (with her most stormy breakfast manner): “I don't want any
lies now! Were you drank last night when you come home?"
THE POLITICIAN: “My dear! I submit that when the Empire is in danger these insinua-
tions only help the enemy!"
at Hall’s Creek, cut with a razor, directed by tele-
graph from Perth. Each day at a given time the
doctor went to Perth G.P.O. and exchanged messages
with the postmaster who was saving a man’s life at
Hall's Creek. Small incisions being found of no
avail, a more serious operation was performed by
telegraphic direction. Morphia for anaesthetic,
Condy’s crystals to keep the wounds aseptic, and a
razor in the hands of a layman for an operation
on a distended bladder following rupture of the
urethra! The patient is progressing well. Another
doctor has taken the daily seat by the telegraphic
key while the one who was formerly in charge goes
north. The pluck of brothers who acted as the
Darcys did can be merely mentioned alongside the
pluck of him who would dare to treat a man for his
life with only the rudest appliances to aid him. But
what do you think of the man who suffered that
series of operations with a little morphia!
Sarto”: Bill blew into town the other
day with the intention of enlisting. After
a lot of trouble and several drinks he found
the recruiting joint. The officer wasn’t
in: someone explained that he’d gone for
dinner. Whereupon Bill disgustedly threw
in his alley with “Orright! The blanky war
will d —n well have to go on.”
fR C i a h u Pe the Gr l a . fton BiHjim
(,±i. ly/i/ii) who gave up his pension on
earning full wages will never need the
money. But —well, here’s the story. In
the S’African war he was badly wounded
and subsequently given an Imperial pen-
si.o!l of Is. a day. Being young he soon
picked up again and (apparently) regained
Perfect health. He studied for a profes-
sion, and when he began to earn a decent
screw felt ashamed of taking the bob in
forming the paymaster that he wished to
surrender it. he was told that such a thin®
was unheard of. The only way of forfei*
ing a pension was to be repeatedly drunk
and abusive when collecting it, My _ i
however, declined t, go through this pro-
cedure. On his neglecting to call for his
quarterly dividend the paymaster ran? lin
and asked him to do so or the accounts would
be messed. My friend accordingly went
on reluctantly drawing his f4-odd a quarter,
ihen suddenly, after 10 years, and owing
to the old wounds, his health broke down,
and he has been very glad of his seven bob
a week ever since. I know of quite a num-
ber of Boer War men whose health has
broken down lately. We must expect the
same aftermath from the present shattering
conflict.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The name of Sydney seems to
have been a case of second thoughts. In his
“Journal of a Voyage to N. S. Wales” Sur-
geon-General White says that Governor
Phillip christened the County of Cumberland
on .Tune 4, 1788, and had intended to name
the town that day, too, but put it off till he
had got the ground cleared a little better.
“Its name, however, we understand, is to be
Albion,” the old surgeon added.
ON A SYDNEY TRAM.
IRRITATED PASSENGER (after strap-hanging
for an hour): “Ain't none of yer got
any ’ omes?"
THE ONE AT HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Don told me that he loved me dear
Where down the range Whioola pours;
And when I laughed and would not hear
He flung away to fight the wars.
He flung- away—how should he know
My foolish heart was dancin’ so ?
How should he know that at his word
My soul was trillin’ like a bird?
He went out in the cannon smoke.
He did not seek to ask me why.
Again each day my poor heart broke
To see the careless post go by.
I cared not for their Emperors—
For me there was this in the wars:
My brown boy in the shell-clouds dim,
And savage devils killin’ him!
They told me on the field lie fell,
And far they bore him from the fight.
But he is whole-—he will be well;
Now in a Ward by day and night
V fair, tall nurse with slim, neat hands
By his white bedside smilin’ stands;
His brow with trailin’ fingertips
She soothes, and damps his fevered lips !
I know her not, but I can see
How blue her great eyes are, and hear
The cooin’ of her voice as she
Speaks gentle comfort to my dear;
With love as sweet as mother’s care
She heals his wounds, she strokes his hair....
O God, could I but let him see
The hate of her consumin’ me!
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
He called me a temptation!
Little dull me, who, one slow hour to kill,
Essayed his five-and-fifty years to thrill
With mild flirtation.
lie called me a te»ip-ta-tion l
Me who had only winked beneath my hat,
And cuddled up to give his hand a pat.
In condemnation.
He called me a temp-ta-ffon/
He rolled his eyes. He’d pray for me, he said—
Then groaned three times and grabbed his hat
and fled
In desperation.
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


“I believe it was CLEMENTS TONIC prevented death claiming me as a victim.
“I was pronounced incurable
by those best able to judge.”
Read this wonderful story of
restored health and strength
from a condition of general
weakness. This recovery
was the direct result of using
the nerve remedy, Clements
Tonic.
Clements Tonic Ltd., RozeUe, N.S.W.
The following letter is remarkable for its earnestness in praise of this wonderful medicine, which does so much good to those
who are run down with debility of the system and those whose health appears seriously impaired. Mrs. Craft’s case is well known
in the Parramatta district, New South Wales, where she has lived for years, and the story of her long suffering is well known and
can easily be verified. How she suffered year after year and how she recovered through the use of Clements Tonic is the talk of
Granville. Read the letter that follows, and if vou are ill with debility or suffering with weak nerves and general weakness, try the
magic of this medicine and give yourself a chance to recover good health. As it benefited others so it may benefit you.
Palmer House, Cooper Street,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. Granville, N.S.W., 15/4/’l6.
“I would be lacking in generosity to you and the afflicted if I did not ask you to make known wliat Clements
Tonic has done for me. It may he the means of directing others to health.
“It is ten years since I first took ill, and I had a five years’ illness; the greater part of that time I teas not
even able to walk about. I was in four different hospitals, and was operated upon in one. I know the dread of the
knife played havoc on my nervous constitution, so that I ivas not only weak in body but weak in nerves.
“I teas pronounced an incurable and sent home by those who were best able to judge. Friends sat by my
bedside at night-time, expecting to see the last of me. but I certainly believe that it was Clements Tonic cheated
death from claiming me as its victim. I have lived in the Parramatta district all my life, and it would be very
easy to verify my statement. You may use this as you think fit.
Witness: Henry Gough, J.P. “(Signed) ALICE CRAFT.”
Dated: 19th April, 1910.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
Send for this medicine to-day, and send ill-health right away. Do not wait until to-morrow.
“Fax”: The aggressive women agitators
are just as feminine as their least obtrusive
sisters when you get them really concerned
on the question of the other woman’s dress.
Adela was thus interested during a recent
visit to the Melbourne beaks. A police-
sergeant deposed that when he was expostu-
lating with the angry suffragette another
woman said : “Adela, you’d better come away.
You’ll get into trouble.” He took only
enough notice of the pacifist to remember that
she was dressed in black. Whereupon Addie
was sarcastic. “Surprising,” she exclaimed,
“that you can remember the very words she
said to me, yet can’t remember anything
about her except that she was dressed in
black!” Only a woman could have argued
like that. When Adela observes that a
woman is dressed in black she instinctively
takes note of her hat, coat, boots, trinkets,
features, complexion and personal attrac-
tions (if any). The gaze of sexual rivalry
is ever critical. No true Adela can under-
stand how a man can glance casually at a
woman without noticing more than a general
effect of blackness in her clothing.
* * * *
“Hard-a-Port”: Four thousand pounds is
offered for the secret that will convict the
person responsible for the explosions which
ended the career of the F. 11.5. liner Cumber-
land —if there be such a person. It is the
highest reward offered for the tracking down
of a criminal in Australia, and the guaran-
tors are the Board of Trade, the Federal
Government and the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment. The steamer loaded at Bowen and
Townsville (Q.) on her fatal voyage, but so
far the Bananaland Government hasn’t
shown any interest in the mystery. Yet it
is not impossible that the plot was operated
from one of the northern ports. However, if
£4OOO doesn’t attract the desired evidence,
probably nothing will.
SOMETHING GAINED.
HE: “By Gad, you're the limit! We've looked
at every hat in town, and yet you
haven't settled on one.”
SHE: “Stupid! I’m only satisfying myself
that Mabel’s isn’t the very latest.”
“Chap”: Billjim found it in his parcel:—
Doer soldier, —I hope those socks will be cumfort-
able and that this dredful war will soon be over.
1 know a soldier who has cum back with his two
eyes out. Hoping they will fit you orlriglit,
Yours, Gladys .
The maddest man in Sydney last week
was a unionist who, like everybody else in
his trade, had stayed on his job and was
going to his distant home on a tram manned
by volunteers because there were no trams
manned by anybody else. As the vehicle
swept past a corner he saw an idle striker
WHEN HE HAD ANOTHER DRINK.
“My wife tied that string on my finger so
that I should not forget to post a letter
of hers.”
“And did you post it?”
“I did not.”
“Then what's the good of your wife tying
strings on you?”
“ Damfino. She forgot to give me the letter.”
show his lofty contempt for “scab” trams
and labor by raising his hat with one hand
and holding his nose with the other. When
the unionist, who was very tired, remem-
bered that lie had been at work in order to
earn money to keep the insulting stranger
who was holding his nose, he began to
wonder who was the bigger fool —he or the
one at the corner.
* * * «
“Kopai”: For him who wishes it is as
easy to go out and do a bit of “gunning” in
grim and grey Melbourne as in
wild and woolly Arizona. And
as little notice will be taken.
The South Yarra and Fitzroy
hushed-up shooting cases were
mentioned in a recent Bulle-
tin. Our suburb has now joined
them as the scene of a gun-play
mystery. An elderly citizen
was going home about 9 o’clock
one Sunday night after a visit
to relatives when, near his
home, a man stepped out from
a corner and plugged in one—
two—three shots, and was quite
prepared to add 4—5 —6 only
some interfering female raised
a screech. The marksman then
stepped into a waiting motor-
car and disappeared. The old
chap had stopped two, and was
pretty bad. He was kept up
with oxygen for a couple of
days, and then his dying deposi-
tions had to be taken. But not
a whisper would he make about
his assailant. He eventually re-
covered : the matter dropped.
The quaint thing is that the
identity of the assailant is common sidewalk
talk: everyone seems to know —victim,
police, press and public. But not a word !
“Canuck”: These strikes remind me of
Blivins and Stivins, two fruit-growers.
Stivins acquired such a habit of “topping-
up” his fruit that his agent wearied of
warning him, and finally let an inspector
condemn a consignment. This so enraged
Stivins that to nark a public which refused
his rubbish he went and grubbed out his
trees and took a long rest. \Y hereupon his
neighbor, Blivins, to show his sympathy,
grubbed out his orchard likewise. ,(P.S. —
Illivins’s present address is Yarra Bend.)
“Cina-tabu-cagi”; At liingwood (Vic.)
the other Sunday a kookaburra’s cackle took
me back to a day of dead heat in the year
of fate 1914. A yawning crowd of Mel-
bourne Uni. undergrads were assembled in
the lecture theatre of “Chem. 1,” and Prof.
Masson was delving into the mysteries of
Gas Law, giving a black-and-white expo-
sition of the theory. A wave of depression
gradually spread over the theatre. Several
students, yawning to the roof, saw a bright-
eyed feathered visitor
gazing curiously down-
ward from the opened
skylight. Suddenly the
absurdity of Man
seemed to tickle him
and he gave a prelimin-
ary cackle. Then he
opened his bill and
shouted and chuckled
shamelessly. The de-
lighted theatre took up
the refrain to a man,
till the place was shak-
ing—all bar the Prof.,
who turned his head
and gazed fixedly over
his eyeglasses. Not a
muscle of his face
twitched. The di n
rapidly suppressed itself
under the mesmerism
of his withering regard.
A pithy remark suit-
able to the occasion
was expected, and not
a soul present wished
to miss the Prof.’s cus-
tomary “dig.” “Gentle-
men,” he said, “compe-
tition is stim-udating.”
Then we resumed. And
where is the cheery
Australian boy who
laughed beside me that
day ? Lyle Buntine,
son of the head of Caul-
field Grammar School,
went off to the war in ’l5; won the M.C.
on the Somme as corporal in the A.M.C.;
was wounded and recommended for a
Flight Commission; won his wings late
last year; finally, killed last April after his
return from five months’ leave in Australia.
And only 22 at the end. It hurts —but,
honestly, as he looked down on man, wasn’t
•Tack right in laughing?
* * * •
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”—
The Collifr’s-rtreet Independent Church has been
having its “diamond jubilee.” But there was an
earlier tabernacle. On May 22, 1838, the Rev.
Waterfield arrived from England, arid was welcomed
into the house of John Gardiner, which stood on the
south side of Bourke-street, near where the Bull and
Mouth afterwards satisfied thirsty souls. Mr. Water-
field held the first Independent services in Gardiner’s
house. John Pascoe Fawkner, an Independent—in
more ways than one—was then building his pub on
the eastern corner of Collins and Market streets, the
site now occupied by the Union Club Hotel. When
it was completed he offered the large room free of
charge to the Independents, and the offer was gladly
accepted. About 100 persons mustered there on a
Sunday. On June 4, 1838, at a meeting,held in Gardi-
ner’s, it was resolved to apply to the Governor at
Sydney for a grant of land. This was secured, to the
extent of two acres, on Block X of Hoddle’s survey.
Three half-acres fronted Collins-street, and the
fourth is the south-east corner of Little Collins and
Russell streets. The building committee consisted
of Waterfleld, J. P. Fawkner, E. M. Savers (after-
wards M.L.A. for St. Leonards in the third Parlia-
ment of N. S. Wales, and father of the present mana-
ger of the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney), IT.
Kettle and J. Aberline. For the building fund £lBO
was raised in Melbourne, £l3O in Sydney and £ll5
in Hobart Town, the foundation-stone was laid by
Henry Hopkins, and the plate made its first rounds
on January 1, 1841. That was the first permanent
church-building opened in Port Phillip.
» * * *
A Melbourne parson, with an eye to the
coming Spring meeting, says there is “no
decent precedent” for the custom of donning
new dresses for the Cup. Nonsense !
From fig-leaves Eve a dress did plan
With many arts and graces,
And as the famous race of man
Just then conveniently began,
She wore it to the races!
♦ * * »
“Rio” goes back to the salute:—
“Centurion” (B. 9/8/’l7) quoting a King's Regu-
lation in support of his case that officers when in
uniform are compelled to salute their seniors, over-
looks the fact that the Military Forces of the Com-
monwealth are not under the Army Act in peace
time, nor even wholly in war time unless the forces
are on active service.
Again, King’s Regulation 1986 has been omitted
from the Australian Regulations, and the omission
must have been deliberate. We therefore have:—
A.M.R. 213 (5). All officers will salute their
seniors before addressing them on duty or on parade.
214. Officers will salute officers of the Royal Navy
and Royal Australian Navy when in uniform.
216. W.O’s, N.C.O’s and men of the Permanent
Forces will salute all commissioned officers they
know to be such whether dressed in uniform or not.
I therefore say that the King’s Regulation relied
upon by “Centurion” does not apply in Australia in
either peace or war, and in view of the A.M.R.'s
quoted I would ask if “Centurion” still says that
officers and men have the same rules with regard to
saluting.
Of course, a junior officer will salute his C.O.
and other brass-hats off duty, but in Australia it is
done more as a matter of courtesy than as an obliga-
tion. In messes I’ve been acquainted with a junior
officer who persisted in saluting his immediate seniors
would have been regarded as a prig and a nuisance.
True, every mess has rules of its own. In one I was
in an officer who so far forgot himself as to ’ salute
another or call him “Sir” had to stand drinks all
round. In another, all officers called the C.O. by his
Christian name when off duty; and that was the
best disciplined militia unit I ever knew. On the
other hand a Sydney volunteer battalion I was once
in camp with had one canteen for all ranks, and I’ve
seen senior officers waiting their turn for a beer with
privates. That regiment’s discipline was rotten.
I quite agree with “Centurion’s” implication that
many Australian officers overdo the saluting business
in order to set an example. I did myself. Probably
for that reason you’ll see more of it in citizen units
than in one of British regulars. When I advocate
the abolition of the rite in Australia I do so quite
as much in the officers’ interest as in the men’s. A
good officer does not depend on ceremony for his
power of command. Saluting by giving a false
value to a weak officer often does actual harm. Dis-
cipline is, in its essence, spiritual, not mechanical.
“303”: There are points about fighting
the Bedouin. As he carries his tucker with
him alive, when you scatter him you get a
meal that you wouldn’t mind asking Cora
Angelique to share with you. Our first
experience of these nomad warrior-grazier-
thieves made us very happy. All was peace-
ful till we topped a hill; then Bedouins,
camels, sheep, goats and poultry scurried off
in all directions, with some of our screen
galloping after them. The Bedouin poultry
suffered greatly. Every man I saw had
strafed at least one cliook, and one very
lucky troop had managed to land two fine
fat sheep.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: The faith in marriage-lines that
survives in picture-plays is still held by
thousands of people scattered about the
country. A parson now in Melbourne, with
10 years’ experience of bush Bananaland
behind him, supplies a case. One day he
was called upon to marry a northern couple,
the man about 45, the woman 38. When it
came to a question of the bride’s state or
condition she seemed dubious. She knew
she was not a spinster. “Well, a widow?”
“No, not exactly a widow.” “Divorced?”
She was not divorced—not to say really
divorced. “But it’ll be all right,” whispered
the bridegroom behind his hand, and winking
meaningly. “Have you been married
before?” asked the pastor. Yes, the lady
had been married before. In fact, she had
NOW WE KNOW WHY THEY ARE
NOT UN-LOYAL.
SHIRKER: “Confounded strike, you know! I
nevah walked so much in my life!”
SHE: “But it must have warmed your poor
feet.”
been married three times. To be quite can-
did, all three husbands were still living.
“But you needn’t trouble about that,” said
the bride. “No, y’ needn’t,” echoed the
bridegroom. But the clergyman was obdu-
rate, so the lady took him aside. “It’s all
right,” she whispered. “You needn’t be
afraid.” Then sinking her voice still lower:
“I always burn my marriage-lines !”
A CHANTY FOR THE TIMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Good Samaritan came to town.
(Leave, ho ! Blow the man down !)
The spring was green and the beer was brown.
(Yeave, ho! Blow the man down!)
The strike was blue and the goods were “black”
And the trains were few and the wharves were slack;
But the Good Samaritan bent his back
With a “Yeave, ho ! ho! Blow the man down !
Nobody starves while we're in town!”
The strikers had ’em all dished and brown.
(Yeave, ho! Blow the man down!)
Their kids might starve while they marched in town.
(Yeave, ho! Blow the man down!)
lint the Good Samaritan reached the spot—
Striker and public lie carried the lot;
For he bent his back and he filled the pot
With a “Yeave, ho! ho! Pull the State through!
None of us rats while there’s work to do!”
N.S.IV.
GEORGE STREET.


«1 Ju u &thy wth the,r fe,,ow workers
on Earth the stokers of the Bottomless Pit
downed tools yesterday and assembled in the
Pandemonium Domain, where inflammatory
speeches were delivered y
Hell’s Gate was picketed, and
the latest batch of Huns warned off
into Eternal Space
SENSATIONAL DEVELOPMENT!
Arrest of Asmodeus Bloggs. M.PJ
Alleged Conspiracy Against j
the Government /
\\ AJ\\\ ' \
The Premier, ‘eplying to a deputation
of influential damned souls ovet the Intense
cold prevailing owing to the strikers putting
ice in the Stygian Lake, said that the Gov-
ernment would do its best to see that the
people were adequately roasted. “A continu-
ance of such illegal disturbances,” he said,
would make a perfect Earth of Hell.”
The call for Free j
Labor has had an imme-
diate response, a special
contingent arriving from
the country up above.
STOP PRESS NEWS.
Tht Government an-
nounces that the Special
Grid for Germans is now in
full blast again, and the
worst is considered over
THE STRIKE EXTENDS.


THE BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK.


nnrj??li
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
/
LEWIS &WIHTTy
(aiirtOo
MELBOURNE &SYbNEY
WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague general discomfort of bein-
out of sorts ” when the stomach turns
against food the eye is dull and the
coated and heavy can be banished in a few
-"rauL a ” d °T," f C ? lifor nia Syrup of FiJ
Ualin 0 . 1 lioie is no nppH tr» nut
f VIt VSe- Se thhlgS Until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup ot Figs—“Califig-’—will berin in
you good the moment you take if
hour—and cause no discomfort.
sant-tasting, refrertiug fruit iLHthe
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving f n®
bowels. By evening the tongue will be cleai
again and the overflow of bile swept awa.v,
you will be yourself again, with a -good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicm®
which does such wonders for children of nil
ages ; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions toi
every age with the bottle. Take care to buj
the genuine, as there are imitations on tne
market. Ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup to-
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—in bottles of two sizes, 1/1;
1/9. [2
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRINO
CIGARETTES
George Fuller, Acting-Premier of N. S.
Wales, is an M.A. and a barrister ; but he
has never done much in the courts. He
toiled with George Reid for a good while.
The fat George couldn’t be bothered working
up briefs, and the leaner George did the bul-
locking in scores of cases in which the fat
one got all the glory and most of the pence.
A younger brother is also at the Bar. Their
dad—and the dad of nine others —died last
week, aged 82. He had been a flourishing
institution of the N. S. Wales South Coast
for over 60 years, and owned a good slice of
Kiama.
BARRED.
“So they won't have yer in the Sportsman's
Thousand! What did yer say yer went
in for?"
“Two-up!”
The strain holds good. Sergt. Harold
Pritchard, of South Aus., holder of the M.M.
and D.C.M., is a grandson of Mrs. Ellen
Hyde, who was a sister of Peter Lalor.
George Hawkes Whitcombe, of Whitcombe
and Toombs, Ltd., Maoriland’s biggest book-
seller and printer, closed his account sud-
denly a few days ago—64. His first exer-
tions in M.L. were with the Armed Con-
stabulary in the Maori War in Taranaki,
and when that trouble was over he com-
menced selling books in a tiny shop in
Christchurch. From that time, with two
different partnerships and finally the pre-
sent concern, “expansion” was the standing
line for every annual report. At some sac-
rifice Whitcombe took on, at the request of
Maoriland’s Cocked Hat, the publication of
the Countess of Liverpool’s Gift Book. It
was a success, but, of course, the firm made
nothing out of it.
It seems to run in the family. Charlie
Mitchell, Melba’s brother, owns a medal pre-
sented to him by the Vic. Government for
helping to drive a loco, during a railway
strike of long ago.
PADDY WEBB, the Maoriland law-maker
who recently resumed his seat in Parliament
after being “away” for some time on account
of what the law insisted was sedition.
Passed out at 75 J. M. McC&mick, for-
merly of the Speck’s railways. HeKvas 29
years in the service, from which he retired
in 1913. Coming from Dublin he started
in 1884 as superintending-engineer in
charge of the construction of the Launces-
ton-Scottsdale line. In 1903 he was ap-
pointed genera] manager, and when a Com-
missioner for Railways arrived McCormick
took over the job of engineer-in-chief.
Gone to his peace, a big-hearted Irishman,
Father Augustine Keogh, who succeeded
the late Dr. Watters as rector of St. Pat-
rick’s College, Wellington (M.L.), in 1901.
A Dublin man, he came to Wellington from
St. Mary’s, Dundalk (Ireland), where he
was rector, and during his eight years’ rule
St. Patrick’s flourished exceedingly. When
he celebrated in 1908 the silver jubilee of
liis ordination and his 50th birthday, people
of all denominations in the windy city re-
minded him of it; but before the congratu-
lations had subsided he had handed over the
money to establish a chemical laboratory
at the college. It was characteristic of the
man.
Died in Adelaide, Dr. A. 11. Gault (53),
Manchester man by birth and education, but
a good Australian since 1888, an authority
on tuberculosis and a mighty Methodist. His
only son was wounded on Gallipoli as a pri-
vate, but came back to complete his medical
course and do more active service that way.
A water-waggon enthusiast of 40 years
ago, Alexander Hutchison, died recently at
Galston (N.S.W.). He was born in Ayr-
shire in 1536, and came to Australia 40
years later as agent for a Glasgow publish-
ing firm. In the first ’Bo’s he contested Bega
on Cold Tea principles, but was unsuccess-
ful. Then Joe Carruthers took him under his
wing, and in 1887 he was second on the poll
for Canterbury, when that electorate re-
turned four members. In the following
general election he finished fourth, and then
domestic trouble pushed him out. After-
wards he was appo ; nted by Jacob Garrard
manager of the Casual Labor Farm at
Pitt Town. He stayed there for eight years,
and then retired to an orchard at Galston.
Another Alexander Hutchison was in Parlia-
ment at the same time. He merely wanted
to abolish the Leg. Council.
Though still only 57, Cecil Wilson, who
is to put on the Anglican gaiters at Bun-
bury (W.A.), has already been bishing for
17 years. He was only 34 when he was
sent to succeed John Selwyn in 1894 as the
third Bishop of Melanesia, with head-
quarters at Norfolk Island and charge of
the Anglican missions in the New Hebrides
and the Solomons. Bunbury is reckoned an
advanced High Church diocese, and Wil-
son’s unanimous election by it is a surprise,
as he is classed as “moderate”, and has no
strong party leanings; but he is personally
very popular with all the squabbling
sects into which present-day Anglicanism
is divided. His wife is a daughter of Dr.
Julius, who bishes at Christchurch (M.L.).
Her brother, a top-notch Sydney engineer,
is the inventor of the Julius totalisator,
which the A.J.C. is installing at Randwick
racecourse.
Passed over, within three days of her 96th
milestone, Mrs. Flockhart, widow of the Rev.
R. C. Flockhart, first Methodist military
chaplain of AHctoria. She came to Australia
in 1849, her husband being appointed to
South Aus. when there were but three other
parsons wearing his particular brand of
collar and tie there. Her eldest son, Major
Flockhart, was killed at Gallipoli; but there
are six grandsons still trying to convert the
enemy.
Prime Minister Hughes is a patron of
Melbourne’s lately-formed Equestrian Club.
For some years, at intervals, the light-
weight has ventured forth aboard a
gentle nag without vice. St. Kilda-
road used to be a favored stretch; but that
route was rendered undesirable by a happy-
go-lucky young man who hailed his High-
ness one morning with “Hello, Billy!” and
thumping good Dobbin in the short ribs,
said cheerfully “Now he’ll go fer y’, Billy!”
Weaving was originally a home industry,
so it was right that a woman should have
had a share in founding the enterprise in
this country. The ancient mill at Geelong
was the pioneer in Australia, and when the
first cloth was woven there by Robert Topen
his wife lent a hand. Topen died a few
weeks ago, full of years and reminiscences.
The death of Mrs. Michael Hennessy,
licensee of the Stockade Hotel at Carlton
(Yic.) these many years, puts a black tie
on Dick Whittington at the Melbourne
Town HalL Michael Hennessy, commonly
called Charlie for short, is a brother of
Dick-o’-Melbourne, and some 15 years ago
used to manage one of the Hennessy bun-
shops;’but the time came when beer looked
more financially affable to Michael than
bread, so he pushed off on his own.
Said “Here!” to the last Roll Call, Henry
Slater, V.D., retired colonel in Maoriiand,
after 79 years of law work and amateur
soldiering. He landed in louland in 1859
when he was 20, and in 1865 joined the
Canterbury Yeomanry Cavalry, Maoriland’s
crack mounted corps and now the First
Mounted Regiment. In 1885 he raised its
rival, the Canterbury Mounted Rifles, and
got his majority. To the end he was one of
the keenest of military men and a Compul-
sory Service advocate long before the Gov-
ernment’s scheme was introduced.
R. B. Walker, new M.L.A. for Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.), has had more to say in a few weeks
than his predecessor (Brinsley Hall) man-
aged to get rid of in 16 years. ” The Hawkes-
bury has had a unique assortment of silent
members. Harry
McQuade was a
good speaker,
but was very
seldom heard in
the House. In
later years Alick
Bowman was
silent; so were
Syd Burdekin
and William Mor-
gan. William
Walker, father
of R. 8., the
new man, was
much the same.
He afterwards
went to the
House of Poli-
tical Deadbeats,
where he was
just as eloquent
in a billygoat
beard and a top
hat.
TOLMIE,
Leader of the
Bananaland
Opposition.
Josepn Robinson Snowball, after a lon°-
and trying struggle with the Reaper, passed
over in Melbourne last week. He was
organising secretary of the L.Y.A., and in
that capacity came before the public a °ood
deal m defence of the Rights of Beer
Lawyer Oswald Snowball. M.L A for
WnH h « to ?’rv and - a prop of tlle crumbling
\\ alls of Derry, is a cousin.
When James Alipius Goold was first RC
Bishop of Melbourne a couple of generations’
ago he wrote to the College of Propaganda
—the Foreign Missionary College at Romp
—for a native Chinese priest, and it sent
him one, the R ev
Father Joseph Ah
Lee. But Father
Joseph didn’t like
the “Ah” before his
nice Irish name,
and had a silver
plate on his walk-
ing stick with
R e v- Jose p h
engraved on
it. I ather Lee was
the only native
Chinese priest who
ever came to Aus-
ti alia, and he
stayed in Mel-
bourne only a few
years. Archbishop
Goold wanted him to
rove about amonghis
fellow - countrymen
at Ballarat, Sand-
hurst and other
places, and convert
them; but Joseph
was fond of Mel-
bourne, and stuck
there till he went
back to China. No
Chinese priest has
been in Australia
since.
APPERLY,
new General
Manager of the
A.M.P.
Just dead at Glen Innes (N.S.W.), aged
83, William Alexander Strang, one of the
little party that rescued Johnson, the sole
survivor of the Dunbar wreck, at Sydney
Heads, 60 years ago.
Leslie Maygar, of Longwood (Vic.) is
now Y.C., D. 5.0., V.D. In return for that
much of the alphabet he has merely given
the Hun L.
The first fight finishes a good many of
them. Capt. Fred Naylor, who had served
in the S’African disturbance without firing
a shot, went to Egypt two years back and
transferred to the Camel Corps. He was
with his unit on the North-West frontier
during the Senussi rising, and then moved
around to another front in time to be with
the force that re-occupied El Arish. New
Guinea had left him a slave to malaria and
blackwater fever, and attacks kept him from
doing his bit at Maghdaba and Rafa. Ilis
chance came at Gaza, and his unit struck the
warmest spot in the firing-line. Naylor was
promptly wounded in the leg, halted to have
the wound dressed, then dashed into the
fight again, and was almost at once shot
through the head. Capt. Charlie Rae, who
was Government surveyor in W A. before
the war, landed on Gallipoli too late to see
the real thing. Afterwards transferred to the
Camel Corps, he looked for trouble for two
years before it came his way. When it did
arrive it was a Turkish shell. Both officers
are buried where Abraham I. used to boil
his billy.
Sydney Trades Hall loses portly George
Lewis, the millers’ general secretary for
10 years or more. Previous to that he was
secretary to the Storemen’s Union. Now
he goes to find out what it is like to be an
employer in a mill of his own.
John McGee, of Parkes (N.S.W.), went
through Gallipoli unscratched; ditto for
nine months in France. Then one night
behind the lines someone said, “Hullo, 13
in the tent and a Friday night. Something’s
sure to happen.” It did. A scouting Brit-
ish ’plane dropped a tool, and it lopped off
the back of both John McGee’s feet. He is
due to leave for home now.
o “Billv Blue”: Major Cruinmer (B.
23/8/T7) is not the only Peninsular and
Waterloo veteran that lies in an Australian
churchyard. At St. Luke’s, Liverpool
(N.S.W.), there is a time-worn stone: —
Sacred to the Memory of
Lieut.-Col. James Henry Phelps,
Late of the 4th Regiment, a Knight of Hanover
and a J.P.,
Who died 19th November, 1841, after 39 years
gloriousl.v spent in the service of his country, in the
course of which he shared in her victories during
all her European wars. He closed his just, honored
and upright life in Liverpool in the 63rd year of
his age.-
Lt.-col. Phelps, after serving with the 51st
(King’s Own) Regiment throughout the
Peninsular War, and being present at
every battle, was wounded and captured at
Sarre, in the battle of Neville, in France, on
November 10, 1813. He was released when
peace was declared and was with the 51st
at Waterloo and marched with the regiment
to Paris. He came to N. S. Wales with the
4th Regiment in 1831, but sold out and was
appointed Police Magistrate at Liverpool.
TUB BALLAD OF WILLIAM JOHN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Where the neap-tides snore in the quays, no more
shall we meet with our William John,
Who looped the loop with his little grey sloop, and
down to the deeps has gone;
No more to the North shall he venture forth at the
helm of his trawler trim —
And more and more on the old white shore are we
missing the likes of him!
Where the sea-dogs trawl for the glittering haul, and
lights on the long shoals burn,
He drew a line on a sunken mine that ripped her
from stem to stern;
Then up she clomb on a spire of foam that scattered
her fragments high ;
And her skipper sleeps in the weedy deeps where a
mort of our sailors lie.
The ships come back from the Skager Rack, the
Dogger Bank and the Nore;
The ships come home through the Orkneys’ foam,
but he sails with the fleet no more;
To a close-writ roll Death adds the toll as ever the
ships sail on,
And out in the blue he lies perdue, the mariner,
William John.
We’ll miss his hands on the net-strewn sands, and
the cheery chants that he sang
In a doubtful key—songs of the sea—when the
tautened cordage rang,
And he set his sail to the spray-wet gale as his sloop
went seaward trim;
And more and more from the old white shore are we
missing the likes of him.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


■1 rn m=flr>=fr\ \_* \ n
i. r. *
The
Three Ca/tles
Brand of
y
Cigarettes
Men in training of any sort know
the value and necessity of a per-
fectly wholesome cigarette. The
best of all cigarettes is the incom-
parable “Three Castles.” It is the
cigarette that goes with a clear eye
and a steady hand. Standing first
in quality, it is also first in flavour.
It is made solely from the highest
grade tobacco the world produces.
Riflemen swear by it.
yfeujg
Cigarettes
-m
ZJL
a/rtts
TtUfr
W.D.&H.O.WILLS.
(Australia) Ltd., Sydney.
B
5^
W. D. ®. H. O. WILLS


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HfiAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON : 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookinan’s Building
SYDNEY: 2o O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF— BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
Soft Pig Peart
Corrortiiig Peart
Antimonial Peart
Assay Pead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Pino Metal, Pitharge,
Spelter. Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
tariff of—
Silicious Silver-Fead Ores.
Calamine Ores (High Crade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or
BHAS
Lead Drosses, ete.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY
The Government Buys Only Roofing | t Has Tested and Analyse!
«« An a selp cted for use on many important Public Works—
ADaMAX ” ASPHALTUM ROOFING.
MHlt “*Ada max’’ if ‘‘Toe CAN Brv°” tha " * alvanifod "' r ° n '
—* |
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
rue ural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
I nwnrrn n « , branch offices:
N 3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street.
SYDNEY— 2S O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE— Equitable Building. Collins Street, Melbourne,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney) :
To Re- Re-
trofits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> JC ;£ £
Juno, 1911. . 08,125 15 p.c. = 03,750 4,375 398,401
Dec., 1911.. 79,304 15 „ „ 63,750 15,554 414,018
June, 1912.. 69,002 15 „ „ 63,750 5,252 419,270
Deficit.
Reserves transferred to capita], £424,998 5,728
Reserves.
Dec., 1912.. 82,765 10 p.c. = 63.750 19.015 13.287
June, 1913.. 68,035 10 „,. 63,750 7,572
“A” & “B” “C”
Shares Shares
10 p.c. 7 p.c.
Dec., 1913.. 74,514 63,750 8778 1,980 9,558
9 p.c.
June, 1914.. 68,288 67,375 8925 1,988 11,546
7 p.c.
Dec., 191 1.. 52,696 44.625 8925 10,692
6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 53,463 44,625 7650 1,188 11,880
Dec., 1915.. 55,472 44,625 7650 3,197 15,077
June, 1910.. 53,377 44,625 7650 1,102 16,179
Dec., 1916.. 51,525 44,625 7650 15,429
June, 1917.. 39,495 39,495 54,924
Shareholders have got this bomb :
The directors regret they cannot recommend the
payment of a dividend at the present time as, in
consequence of the onerous provisions of the Gas Act
1912, it is not possible to obtain further necessary
capital. They feel that, as gas is a public utility
and largely used by all members of the community,
it is their duty to conserve all the resources of the
co., including surplus revenue, so that the supply of
gas may be maintained, even though this involves
imposing a temporary hardship on the shareholders.
The directors are carefully considering- what steps
should be taken to relieve the position.
The directors might at least have specified
those “onerous provisions of the Gas Act
1912” which prevent the raising of capital.
It can't be the standard rate of dividend
fixed. That is 7 p.c. for new ordinary cap-
ital —which would be quite enough to attract
money if the co. could pay it. For some
time past, as a matter of fact, it has been
able to pay only 6 p.c. on its new capital.
But that was after writing off large sums
for depreciation, and it is doubtful whether
the law contemplated such a proceeding.
This shows the position in that respect
better: —
June, ’l6. Dec., T 6. June, T 7.
Total revenue ..£413,953 £458,494 £440,319
Working expenditure 286,588 310,344 330,539
Working profit. . £127,365 £148,150 £109,780
Less net interest. . 41,988 33,025 35,541
Less written off . . 32,000 63,000 34,744
Profit .. .. £53,377 £51,525 £39,495
In the previous half-year no less than
£63,000 was written off; and if a gas co.
can write off as much as it likes, it can
obviously reduce its profit to anything at
all. Yet the whole purpose of the clumsy
Act was to compel gas eos. to show their
fair profit, and pay it aivay in dividends;
and as the dividends were limited, this
meant that they would be obliged to reduce
the price of gas when they were making
more profit than the dividends limited by
law would absorb.
It is really not much use taking any
notice of a gas co.’s half-year’s figures, be-
cause the results for the two halves vary a
great deal. If in this ease the figures for
the past two halves are amalgamated the
profit would be £188.764 less depreciation.
The question is, what is the proper thing to
write off against depreciation? It is fairly
clear that depreciation is about the same all
the year round; yet note that £63.000 was
written off in the half-year to December 31
as against £32,000 in the previous half,
£34.744 in the half just past, and £24.000
in the half-year ended June, 1915. If some-
thing like £34,000 is a fail- half-yearly charge
then the true net profit for the past 12
months was £120,764. which is quit? suffi-
< ient to pay 7 p.c. on the capital all round.
The whole matter, then, hinges on the depre-
ciation ; and in that connection it has to be
remembered that this is not a charge to cover
current repairs, maintenance and renewals.
These have been charged up already; the
total for the past year was about £120.000,
exclusive of over £20.000 spent on repairs
and renewals of meters and stoves. The
Bulletin is not prepared to say what (if
anything) should be deducted from profits
to cover depreciation, after paying out
£120.000 for renewals, etc. But Parliament
should be very careful not to agree to any
amendment of the present law until it has
been, fully satisfied that this allowance for
depreciation is a fair one. It most cer-
tainly ought to fix the depreciation which a
co. should be entitled to write off and no
more. The Act is for most practical pur-
poses valueless so long as a co, ban deduct
what it likes from revenue. And it seems
able to do that at present;
Admittedly things haVe nOi been going as
A ell as usual with the eo. Woldring profit
was only £109,780, as against £127,365 in
the corresponding half of 1916 and £111.065
in 1915. This comparison may help us to
find where the money has gone :
1915. 1916; 1917.
Revenue —
Gas .; £340,298 £353,713 £362,491
Meter rents . . 8,466 8,784 8,568
Residuals . . 42,414 45,560 6i,088
Expenditure —
Coal, oil, etc. 122,647* 109.961 137,271
Wages, salaries 65,396 66,881 69,079
Management 9,671 9,706 11,518
Renewals, etc,.. 59,780 67,261 71,110
*Coai strike.
Here again we have a great increase in
renewals, etc. ; and that makes it all the
more necessary to look with a good deal of
suspicion on the diminishing profits of the
co. For that suspicion gas cos. have to
thank themselves entirely. Before the Gas
Act was passed almost every gas 00; in A'. S.
Wales made its profits appeal to the public
to be less than they really iVefe fey paying
for works out Of revenue, With the result
that when this Act was passed assets had
to be written tip and the hidden profits thus
disclosed Were capitalised. There may be an
explanation of why In the 12 months to June
50, l9lo> £48,000 was regarded as a fair
thing to strike off revenue to cover deprecia-
tion, whereas over £97,000 has been struck
off in the past 12 months. And there may
be an explanation of why renewals cost
£59.780 in the first half of 1915 and £71,110
m the first half of 1917. But until tnose
explanations are offered shareholders may
be well advised not to be alarmed at the
apparent fall in profits. And Parliament
may be well advised not to pass any amend-
ing legislation precipitately.
It is easy to grab a pen, stick it into a
bottle of ink and write in frenzied denuncia-
tion of the man who makes money out of the
war. There is only one thing easier, and
that is to make a speech in support of the
demand that all war profits shall be appro*
priated to the public revenues. But when it
comes to drawing the line between profits
and war profits—to devising a practical test
by which it can be decided whether a given
sum was made out of the war or merely
accumulated in the ordinary way of business
—the difficulties are tremendous. To simply
fix upon a date and say that all amounts
made in excess of a standard determined by
the prior difference between revenue and ex-
penditure were war profits would obviously
lead to gross injustice, first because by that
means many traders would be dispossessed
of earnings having no connection with the
war and many others who had been making
Profits directly out of the war would escape.
Similarly if “war-time profits” are sought to
be impounded instead of mere war profit
there is an immediate danger of blindly hit-
ting at men whose main offence is * that,
instead of being inactive stick-in-the-muds,
they have entered into new or extended enter-
prises, to the great benefit of Australia. A
war-time profit tax which takes from one
business half of £2OOO on the ground that it
was not making that much before the war,
and nothing from the business which made
£20,000 because it was making quite as much
previously, has mighty little to recommend
it as a measure of public protection. There
are wild-eyed individuals who say, “Oh, well,
take the £20,000.” The answer is that if it
were done the business would he killed.
The difficulties that Bigjohn Forrest has
got himself into over this business are partly
those which confronted anyone who ap-
proached it. and they are made greater
because of the attempt to introduce rule-of-
thumb exemptions which, by granting favors
to some people, make victims of others. There
are. for instance. Australian manufacturers
who by the increased business coming from
a wider market have made greater profits
than before. To say they have “made money
out of the war” is ridiculous. What they
have done is to provide Australians with
goods that formerly came from beyond the
sea and given opportunity for employment.
Yet this bill of Bigjohn’s proposes to treat
them as if they had behaved like public
enemies, while opening wide the door of
escape to profiteers from shipping, meat and
metals. This is dishonest, and Forrest de-
serves more condemnation for producing a
scheme that is crooked in conception than
he would if he had declined to handle the
matter, said he saw no way of giving a fair
deal and thrown upon the advocates of war-
time profit confiscation the onus of explain-
ing how to do it without injustice to indivi-
duals and injury to the country.
By trying to meet a political difficulty and
save certain interests the Government has
got itself into a hole, with the consequence
that even if it gives its friends away it
will still he victimising others. Listening
to a howl for bringing professional men
within the scope of the tax. Bigjohn made a
proposal to this effect, the net result of
which was tb appropriate the increased earn-
ings of the “coming” man and leave the big
incotne of the man at the top untouched.
For this not a word of rational defence could
be found. Direct war profits hare been made
in Australia —by a few people. The Govern-
ment knows who they are. Most of them
are not touched by the scheme before the
Federal Parliament. As it stands now the
place for the scheme is the dustbin; because
it is inadequate and Unfair, War profits
should be confiscated. War-time profits arfe,
in the main, the Old familiar friends with a
new name, and for them the income tax is
the best form Of treatment.
„ * * *
The tofcxboUKNic Steamship Co.: —,
Added Slomi-
Dioss td Re- nal lie
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dee.. ’OB.. 14,008 10 p.c. = 7,500 6,508 58,870
June, 'OO.. 13,405 8 „ ~ 6,800 6,605 65,475
Dec., ’09.. 13,869 8 ~ ~ 6,800 7,069 72,544
June, ’lO.. 15,488 8 „ ~ 6,800 8,688 81,232
Dec:, ’io.. 16,749 9 „ „ 7,650 9,099 90,331
June, 1 ’ll.. 16,978 9 „ „ 7,650 9,328 99,659
deb. ’ll.. 12,968 9 „ ~ 7,650 5,318 104,977
June, ’12.. 17,900 9 ~ ~ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares. . 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off .. .. 117.027
dec. ’l2. . 8,715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 118.899
June, ’i3.. 20,107 8 „ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13., 21,164 8 ~ ~ 8,160 13 004 143.850
June, ’14,, 16,966 7 ~ ~ 7,140 9,826 153,676
Pref, Ord. Total.
Dec., ’ll., 17,409 6p.C, Bp.c, 8,463 8.946 162,622
June, ’15.. 29,371 6 „ 15 ~ 16,079 13,292 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51,000 124,914
Dec., ’15.. 32,433 6p.c. iOp.c. 13,530 18.903 143,817
June, ’16.. 33,045 6 ,* 10 ~ 13,530 19,515 103,332
Dec., ’167. 27,598 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 14,068 177,400
June, ’17., 29,201 (i iff i 3,530 iS,67i 193,071
The reserves are branded nominal because
£140,(300 of the total is in a heap labelled
“Provision for depreciation, special renewals
and replacements and contingencies”; and
on the other side the bulk of the assets are
in at cost to this eo. And another £22*020
of the reserves belongs to an Insurance
Fund, and that' may not be the best of re-
serves either —it is a fund to meet contin-
gencies. too. Or is supposed to be. But
shipping people are a gregarious and
friendly lot, and hate cutting one another’s
throats ; hence their profits have a habit of
being so abundant that they very frequently
deem it prudent to put by more . than is
needed. Maybe, Providence is better to them
than in their modesty they think they de-
serve. At any rate, on the published accounts
the real profits of this co. are not as they
appear in the first column of the table, but
that much, iess whatever is a fair thing to
cover depreciation and provide for all con-
tingencies. For the past year the manage-
ment itself puts things this way :—-
Profit as per P. and L. account .. £14,069
Added to heap above mentioned . . 7,943
„ ~ Insurance Fund.. .. 7,189
Total £29,201
M hat is a fair thing to set aside this paper
doesn’t know, partly because the ship pro-
perty is tied up with the freeholds, etc. But
look at this :
_ June,’l2. June,’l6. Dec.,’l6. June,’l7.
Steamships and
other non-liquid
assets. . . . £256,144 £345,933 £346,749 £349,779
Liquid assets. . 70,236 158,101 159,211 201 176
Liabilities . . 28,395 45,671 33,529 62’,854
Meantime, between 1912 and the present,
pref. capital has been increased from £20,000
to £26.000, and ordinary ditto from £lso’ooo
to £255,000; in all, by £lll.OOO. But. as
the first table shows, £51,000 of reserves
were capitalised, leaving £60,000 as the
amount actually put up by shareholders. As
against that contribution of capital there
has been an increase of £96.481 of liquid
assets after providing for liabilities. Cer-
tainly the tonnage of the co.’s fleet isn’t
q , Ulte , l arge a , s it: ' vas years ago—
about 1200 tons less, through the disappear-
ance of the Brisbane from the list—but the
00. has added largely to its other plant. And
e time it has paid a fairly handsome
dividend. llow much more it has fairly
made than it has paid The Bulletin*
c oesn t know. Put it at half as much again
so rai as the ordinaries are concerned and
you will probably be quite safe. With ordi-
nary luck they will get it some dav, just as
they have got nice bonuses in the past.
Doubtless we do well to tell the young man
ie an( fi But there are also points
about the sea.
Pn S ™f)' -y xa Suburban* Hydraulic
fFDW) Ca , " tarted Wlth a deficit of
asset)- CaMta by a paper
rw i>,. ... ~ Written To Re- Re-
idn'- Dividends. Off. serves serves
190 a. .£13,260 10 p.c. £11,250 f-onn' falno
1906.. 14,187 10 .... 1,250 -
1907.. 13,092 10 .. ii ; <-q _ A'ioo
1908.. 12,636 10 .. .. n o-,, JS4- U.IS2
1909.. 11,268 9 .... in l o.i -fjo }2.068
1910.. 12.300 8 .. n.mm
Sit - |;?J? 2 • 3iX ll'mo
!«*:: IxJk ? - - is E»
1914.. n oil s :: 4$ 24,868
1915.. 10.175 7 doc- 2°’ 141
1916.. 10.037 0 ..:: ;r 7 ,„ , ( ,y .yy-? 1
•nine. -* -gim
1917.. 5 070 ,
1 99 1096 25.277
The accounts put it this wav - D 0,,,.. • ..
reserve, £40,000; general reserved®
unappropriated profit, £277; total.’
Deduct from that the intangible’
tisset, £15.000, and you get the g $»X!!
shown above. Actually the profits fo
earlier years were not as good as ti,, 1 , 1,1,1
i" th« table; fee the bulk of thVSe *
nut to reserves was a provision f“r
tion which was then in progress n
that the actual i-enewals then' made
ptud for out of revenue and charged to
mg account; but naturally the bill f or ‘
newals becomes larger the longer the , i
m existence-—up to a certain point. iS
The co. did not. for a long while see,,, t
realise the strength of the competitor
up against ; and its revenue did not ex„ ai ,fi
as it should have done during stich a b ,i S
mg boom as Sydney has had. A couple 7(
years ago the co. decided to carry out lift
repair contracts (previously done bv an rift
Shoot engineering co., subsequently absorbed
by the Standard Waygood Co.). Deducting
the cost of wages and materials used i u this
work we get this comparison of revenue for
tin- Jamiary-June half-years:—
1910 .. £11,436 | 1914 .. £ jj
1911 .. 11,260 | 1915 .. 11440
1912 .. 11,270 | 1916 .. i(P946
1013 .. 12,409 | 1917 .. li^
Meantime the surplus profits—largely
doubt, a set-off against actual wear’and
tear and other depreciation—have been sunk
in works. Take this comparison: —
•June, June,
v • , . 1910. 10,7
Liabilities .. .. .. .. £4337 AT
Plant, mains, stock and freeholds.. 123 143 ui’,,o
Book debts and sundries .. .. 1 0’145 g
thus a trifle more than all the surplus
earnings has been sunk in plant, mains, etc.,
and even then the revenue has been barelv
maintained. Probably things may improve
with largely-new control. But if looks prettv
certain that the co. never was the real protit-
maker that it looked to be —or, at any rate
Wasn‘t for any great length of time.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney :
u er , To Re- lie-
Fronts. Dividends. serves, serves
Dec., 1912..£3345 10 p.c.=£2832 £513 £7061
June, 1913.. 3565 10 „ „ 2532 733 7791
Dec., 1913.. 2127 S ~ „ 2266 Tfiv;
June, 1914.. 1719 7., ~ 1982 739?
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 „ 1982 7091
June, 1915.. 2023 7 1982 41 73iv>
Dee., 1915.. 2399 7 „ ~ 1982 417 7719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 2832 7199
Dec., 1916.. 2832 10 ~ ~ 283° 7199
June, 1917.. 2832 10 ~ 2832 —713 ft
Or if you like you can call the previous half-
year’s profit £3OBO and the past half-year's
£3031. The surplus iu each ease—£24S six
months ago and £199 now—has been trans-
ferred to a taxation suspense account, which
is not included with the reserves in the table.
In addition, something unspecified is written
off profits to cover depreciation of plant and
possibly also of premises. The capital is
£56,644, in fully-paid £1 shares, and this
just about suffices. All liabilities on June
30 amounted to no more than £3521, not-
withstanding that “since the last report
additional plant and stocks have been
acquired to deal with the larger output at
the tannery and factory, and the entire
plant and stocks of belting of Anderson's
Tanneries, Ltd., were also purchased at a
satisfactory price.” The co. has an advan-
tage _ over most manufacturing concerns—
nothing elaborate in the way of premises of
is required. Including freeholds
(£16.547). the total of these items is
£21.119. Also, sales are mostly not to
retailers who have to be financed, so that
book debts are small—under £9OOO. The
capital thus allows the co. to carry stocks,
manufactured and in process of manufac-
ture. which keep fairly steady at from
£30.000 to £40,000. In addition to the home
trade the co. has established, especially for
its belting, a growing foreign trade; and
with the best raw materials in the world to
work up, there ought to be a large future
for the industry. It will he entirely our
own fault if there isn't.
* * * *
The Mill a quin Sugar Co. (Brisbane)
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
J9J2. . £55,892 6 p.c. = £30,000 £25,892 £25,892
1913.. 30,394 5 „ „ 25.0 0 0 5,39 4 31,286
1914.. 72,441 S ~ .. 40,000 32,441 63,727
1915.. 47,401 8 .. ~ 40,000 7,401 71,128
1916.. 45,844 8 ~ .. 40,000 5,844 76,972
19 1 7.. 31,7 46 6 ~ ~ 30,0 00 1,746 78,718
This property was for many years owned
by the Q. X. Bank, and its influence is still
strong in the management. A. J. Carter, the
bank's chairman, is chairman also of Milla-
quin, and W. V. Raison, general manager of
the bank, is managing director of the co-
But no excellence in financial direction could
have made a very great success of merely
growing and milling sugar during the past
year or two. The grower and the miller
1 Millaquin is both) are between the upper
and the nether millstones —the big sugar re-
finer. strongly entrenched behind his practi-
cal monopoly on the one side, and the worker,
just as strongly entrenched behind his Dick-
son award on the other. Last year the posi-


Westinghouse Electric & Mtg. Co., Ltd.
The British
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
proved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
skidding even the highest speed .
With im
prevents
r
SPECIAL FEATURES
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “flashing over. «
Reduces destructive arcing in the controllet. and
materially reduces the strain of. the car insu-
lation by'preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Works- TrafFortTPark, Manchester. England^
Every mi lie-manager and electrician lias frequently
experienced difficulty with lii< signal system, due to
battery troubles. The Australian General Electric
Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, corner Queen and
Little Collins Streets, Melbourne, can overcome all
your troubles in this connection by the installation
of a special “Bell Ringing Transformer,” which has
been designed to meet the conditions of the Coal
Mines Act. Give us particulars of your system, and
we will be pleased to advise and quote to your
requirements.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather fov drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not jase Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Win. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. —Advt.
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the logical pipe for water
systems, has greater carrying capacity, is easier to
handle and to lay, is lighter and saves cost in
freight, costs from 25 per cent, to 60 per cent, less
than metal pipes, and is the cleanest pipe for convey-
ing water, which preserves instead of corroding wood
pipe, making it last indefinitely. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited, (head office) 57 York Street, Sydney.
Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic.; and
Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments. — Advt.
If you have not .heard of Lottoid you have not
heard of the best lining and ceiling material.
Lottoid is a Plaster Sheet made in Australia, into
various sizes up to nine feet long; it has a beautiful,
snow-white surface, which does not require painting,
and is only 2/6 per sq. yard. Samples from Spriggs’
Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Patexts. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Gyratory Rock Crusher, from Australian stock.
The world-renowned “McCully” No. 4 Manganese
fitted. Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Apply,
sole representatives: Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
Head Office, The Quay, Sydney; or The Australian
Machinery Co. Ltd., 130 Charlotte-street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
The extraordinary -success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collibox & Co., 483 Collins Street,- Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars, H. B.
Sdby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street. Sydney; and
■ft’. Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
m
Fire, Marine.
Accident,
Insure in
T 1“ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,165'6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Live Stoci-..
ACENTS WANTED.
Established IVIO.
Branches in every State
Write for particulars.
VV. 1!. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting
Ropes and other parts—for Hydraulic Material. Pipes, Valves, Tubing and
High-pressure Stocks generally. Best Workmanship and material.
Quotations supplied. A MAyNE HERON. Manager.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
tion from the grower’s point of view seemed
desperate, and he left large quantities of
cane uncut. This year, because conditions
have been modified to some extent, and
because he must cut last year’s cane now or
lose it altogether, the outlook for the miller
is much improved. "Last year,” the direc-
tors say, “the tonnage treated at our mills
was the lowest on record. This year it will
be the highest.” Meantime, agreeable to the
policy of letting the dividends follow the
profits, shareholders get only G p.c.
Still, the co. isn’t willing to believe that
the industry is going to be sacrificed, and it
continues to put large additional sums into
the business. Hence the change in these
figures during the year:—
1912. 1916. 1917.
Assets other than fixed
assets and plant ..£165,473 £221,025 £150,703
Liabilities .. .. 36,160 93,341 81,784
Surplus.. ..£129,313 £127,684 £68,919
Between 1012 and 1016, though its surplus
of more or less liquid assets over liabilities
had remained practically stationary, it had
increased its plantation lands, refinery, mills
and other fixed assets by £55,207, after pro-
viding an unknown amount for depreciation.
In the past year the book value has been in-
creased by £55,511; but the surplus of liquid
and semi-liquid assets has been reduced by
£58,775. That is at June 30, before the
appropriation of the half-year’s dividend in
each case. The total of the fixed assets is
now £524,708. The unknown quantity, as
mentioned just now, is the profit written off
against depreciation. It may be excessive,
as it habitually was in the case of the
C.S.R., which thus disguised its profits. On
the other hand, part of the reserves shown
in the table may not be true reserves, and
part of the profits shown may not be true
profits: at any rate, £40,000 of the total of
reserves belongs to a Depreciation and Re-
newals Fund. And if the past of the indus-
try, so far as this co. is concerned, has been
thus more or less uncertain, the future is
still more nebulous. Just at present it is in
a state of flux, with labor ( quite rightly, on
the whole) getting much larger payments,
while the price to the grower is apparently
still governed by the price at which cheap
coolie-grown sugar can be hauled over the
low-duty barrier into Australia. Twelve
months* ago the chairman admitted that, on
the then existing conditions, “it will be im-
possible to carry on the industry on reason-
able commercial lines; but it is hoped that
reason and commonsense will prevail.” he
added. The Bulletin hopes so, too. Mean-
time it is just as well to regard sugar invest-
ments as speculative.
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profits on Writ-
Pro- Property ten Re-
fits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., 1910.. £2319 £294 8 p.c. =£1912 £21,052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 „ ~ 1912 £5Ol 22,111
Jan'., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ „ 1912 23,584
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 ~ „ 1912 26,008
Jan'., 1912.. 2714 2956 9J „ „ 2231 —29.44 i
July, 1912.. 3132 859 8 „., 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capita). . 21,584
Jan., 1913.. 3038 486 8 p.c.= 2294 22,814
Julv, 1913.. 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23-B<9
Jan'., 1914.. 3295 423 8 ~ .. 2294 25.303
July, 1914.. 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 2<.258
Jan., 1915.. 3612 360 8 ~ .. 2294 28,936
July, 1915.. 3400 139 10 ~ ~ 2868 29,60/
.fari., 1916.. 3622 —lO ~ .. 2868 30,361
Julv, 1916.. 3268 360 10 ~ .. 2868 31,121
Jan., 1917.. 3304 —lO.. .. 2868 31..»5i
July, 1917.. 3289 —lO „,, 2868 ~1,978
Capital is £57,357: it used to be about
£98,000 until it was written down to match
tho writing-down of assets. Previous .to
that, though fair profits were made, no divi-
dend was paid for many years, the. nionci
being applied to turn old bad bargains into
good ones. Between this self-denial and the
writing down of capital the co. rather over-
d'.d it; and the result has been that in most
oases the old properties' have brought more
than they were written down to. Hence the
substantial size of the reserves, notwith-
standing that an 8 p.c. or 10 p.c. dividend
has been paid since the reconstruction. And
the result is all the better because the co.
owes under £32.000 —mostly deposits, of
course. But here are the figures: —
July,’ol. July,’l6. Jan..’l7. July,’l7.
Liabilities ..£37,015 £35,225 £33,620 £31,651
Advances . . 19,998 119,251 118,20 l Hb
Foreclosures .. 72,305 3,<80 3,<65 • > ' 1
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 3,540 3,48, 4,0<4
Advances are shrinking a little (and, on the
whole, that is a very good sign). lhey
bring in. on the average, a shade over 8 p.c.
p.a., and the rate is not likely to fall roi
some time to come. Now, even without the
help of anv deposits or other borrowed
money, 8 p.c. on the co.’s own funds would
pay exes, and allow enough over for a .) p.c.
div. The question of course is whether the
co. will be able in the dull times ahead to
attract borrowers on building-society terms
even to the extent of its own funds. Wo f; el ’
tainly can’t expect vigorous business ot that
sort. On the other hand, it seems very im-
probable that there will be a sudden or very
serious slump in house-property values and
that is always the bugbear of the building
society. The sudden stoppage of a borrow-
ing boom, as Melbourne and this society
know very well, naturally means collapse of
values. But in ti: present case there are
other considerations. Most building materi-
als are going to be dear for years to come
—partly because of the great demand for
reconstruction in Europe : partly because of
the scarcity of shipping. A possible excep-
tion must be made in the case of such metals
as zinc and molybdenite; for war prices
have caused an enormous increase in the
means of producing these goods. But they
don’t come seriously into the question of
building construction and prices.
B. H. Prop, is duplicating its coking plant
at Port Waratah, near Newcastle. Inciden-
tally this will mean an increased production
of by-products, notably tar and sulphate of
ammonia. A modern coking plant can ex-
tract seven gallons of tar and 281 b. of sul-
phate of ammonia from a ton of our coal.
The Australian Gas Co. (Sydney) realised
£Ol.OOO for by-products last half-year, but
the Metropolitan Gas Co. is still far in the
lead, realising in six months over £90,000.
The B. 11. Prop., with plenty of distilled tar
in store, is becoming a thorn in the side of
the gas cos., which complain about a re-
stricted market but continue to charge high
prices.
The Pulganhar quicksilver proposition, out
of which Grafton (N.S.W.) was going to
make a pot of money, is at a dead-end. The
last report of the directors is a chapter
from the Book of Lamentations: —
A year ago we had a large body of ore accumu-
lated at our reducing works which it was anticipated
would, when treated, give us a good return of mer-
cury ; but the result of treatment has been very dis-
appointing and a big mystery to us, as the bulk of
silver seems to be lost. The silver secured was only
from the soot accumulated in the chambers, and that
was only partially treated owing to the need for
expert control.
So the directors, having had a visit from
an expert, who thinks his people might buy,
have asked the shareholders to let them sell
the property. They have had it seven years,
and the P. and L. Dr. balance is now £11,884,
so it seems' about time they did something
else. Five years ago it would have paid
them to oiler a couple of thousand a year
to a technically-trained man. But_ it is
apparently too late now: they haven t got
the couple of thousand. Somebody else has;
and, if there is any money in the show at
all, the somebody else will get it. All the
same, as the co. has about £5OO. it might
just as well play that up in getting a report
from the best man in Australia. Then at
least the co. would not be quite in the dark
when negotiating for a sale.
* * * *
“X.Q.” : “Next year,” says Wild Cat (B.
23/8/T7), “N. S. Wales will probably be the
world’s biggest molybdenite producer. To
date Queensland has kept the lead, with
abmit 75 p.c*. of tlio world’s output, X.
Wales and Norway battling for second place.
The workings on Queensland’s big fields are
older than in N. S. Wales, where the great-
est visible deposits have not yet been
tapped.” If the record is to depend on Yet-
holme. Queensland will still be safe for first
place. The Yetholme quantities are as right
as the qualities are wrong. The Thermo-
Electric Co. is. re-equipping Wolfram Camp
for a doubled output and has purchased the
French Co.’s reduction works. That co.
started out wrong end and did not own a
mine to feed its plant. Thermo-Electric has
also bought the Carbine (at a figure around
£30,000) and is spending another £20,000
on new plant. N. S. Wales is not in it for
molybdenite ore values, and the extended
plants will easily keep N. Queensland in the
front rank.
* * * *
After topping the million gold yield the
Chiltern Valley alluvial mine (Vic.) has had
a struggle to keep going. Old John Cock,
worn out with the strain, had to hand over
the reins to son John, who, after soaking up
about £30,000 of gold plus calls, announces
that he can now enter the promised land of
clivs.. “provided suitable labor is available.”
For the past six months blocking has given
15dwt. dirt from the main gutter. It will be
surprising if the mine furnishes profits out
of that average unless labor costs come down.
John expects to get good gold in the tributary
lead on which he is driving, as the uppei
reaches gave rich yields._ If this comes
off the right policy will be to con-
serve profits till the western end of the
main lead is opened up and the ground
drained. Then if cash remains in the till
a div. may be excused.
Victorian brown-coal interests are jubilant
over the Sydney strike. They were dead-
tired of prodding the Peacock sit-tights. The
strike did what they had failed to do. It
woke up the Premier, who sent Herman, the
geologist, to Morwell to find out whether
instead of a few driblets of brown coal get-
ting awav from the field, a thousand-tons-a-
clay output could be kept going. Then it
struck the Department that this, that and the
other had to be done first to get things ship-
shape. The Peacock Government had fair
warning of all this., but it followed its natural
inclinations and let everything slide. Pea-
cock’s excuse will be that he shoved responsi-
bility on to the Electricity Committee, which*
is to tell if Morwell coal can be used to gen-
erate power cheaply. Well, the Committee
is going to plump for the enterprise. Tut
Bulletin knows that, and Peacock ought to
have a very fair idea of it; yet he has not
done a hand’s turn so far to prepare in
advance for such a recommendation. Alec-
ought to be put under the card system for a
bit.
# * * *
Bob Stuckey’s first return from the 500 ft.
level of Edna May Deeps was almost 2oz.
stone, 847 tons giving 14250 z., apart from
2t)s. in the tails. The actual value of the
clean-up was £5700. Bottom-level stone
crushed totalled 720 tons, so that 327 tons
was drawn from the level on the Edna boun-
dary at 47Gft. This ore has been graded as
40s. dirt, and on that basis the 720 tons
yielded £5340, or roughly £7 Ids. per ton.
Even with such goods in the window the
market took fright, because it wanted a
bigger crushing and £BOOO won. Costs were
£l7OO, or about 40s. per ton. But why say,
as the office report did. that the money went
mostly for capital and development? How
can that be? Stuckey must mean to tip 2oz.
dirt when he reports that most of the stone
from 560 ft. gave very uniform values in the
battery; though he shades that off by the
obvious comment that future developments
must settle the grade on which the mine will
be run. Perhaps he isn’t confident that the
rich stone will not taper off overhead when
risen on. Anyway, he has his loophole, and
history will tell whether he will have to use
it.
* * * *
‘•The Buzzer”: Thus the sage Austral-
asian (11/8/’l7) :
The Edna May mine, alongside the Deeps, and
working the upper portion of the same shaft, has
large ore reserves proved, and probably another
30,000 tons to open up between its bottom level and
the Deeps boundary.
Now, the most any level in the mine has
produced so far is 36,728 tons above the
225 ft. level —this is the sum of the ore ex-
tracted and the estimated reserves. This
sum is reduced to 32,834 tons above the 300 ft.
level; and, allowing for 3000 tons already
treated, the sum is 25,350 tons above
the 385 ft. The total tonnage at the
300 ft. is 11 p.c. less than at the 225 ft.
level and the total ore at the 385 ft.
level is 23 p.c. less than at the 300 ft. level.
The ore in the next lift (and, so far as the
Edna May is concerned, its last lift) is
divided between the Deeps and the Edna
May. The Deeps has crushed rather less
than 3000 tons from it since November last
(nine months) for about £3 per ton, and the
manager now estimates that he has 15.000
tons in reserve, worth 335. 4d. per ton. The
ore body at the 225 ft. level was approxi-
mately 200 ft. long by 20ft. wide, the total
contents 36,728 tons. The ore body in the
Deeps is stated by the Australasian to be
60ft. long by 20ft. wide, and the tonnage in
the Edna May 30,000, “probably.” Add this
to the ore crushed from and “estimated” in
Deeps (18,000 tons) and we have the aston-
ishing result that a shoot 60ft. x 20ft. is
estimated to yield 48,000 tons, whereas one
200 ft. x 20ft. only yielded 36,728 tons. This
is a good example of how loose methods of
estimation may lead to altogether absurd
results. In the above illustration the esti-
mate arrived at is not a small percentage
wrong, but at least three times too big.
* * * *
It is a remarkable fact that some mining
companies are content to place obviously in-
accurate estimates before their shareholders.
They would not think of placing their
accounts before shareholders till they had
been audited by a properly qualified account-
ant, but the estimate of their principal asset
is generally little more than a casual state-
ment —frequently highly colored for market
purposes—by an unqualified person, without
sections or any detail by which it can be
checked. If the cos. do not move in the direc-
tion of having their ore reserves audited it is
up to the Government to make it compulsory.
Untruthful estimates are responsible for most
of the swindles perpetrated in connection
with mines, and the lack of money for devel-
opment is due to good speculators having
been swindled and choked off altogether.
* * *. *
Mount Oxide, Cloncurry, is doing well at
250 ft. and 270 ft. Three winzes have been
sunk below the adit level and crosscuts
driven to the footwall. From No. 1 winze
(250 ft.) an ore body 16ft. wide has been
proved, and the glance assays 39 p.c. Simi-
lar values are showing in the drive from No.
2 winze ( 270 ft.), but in this case no foot-
wall has been met, and the rich glance has
already been proved 17ft. wide. If develop-
ments of this kind continue the mine itself
will, iu a way. solve the transport problem,
for ore containing a copper value of £3O per
ton is worth packing over SO miles to the
rail head. Makes of copper glance are, how-
ever, limited, and reserves of 20 p.c. grade
are no more than 30,000 tons. But the rich
ore met with in winzing is an inducement to
push down the main shaft.
Croydon (Q.) has had a lift, Cuthbert’s
Content cleaning up HoO tons for £4OBO
(2145050. F. W. Outhbert has recently
bought the Mt. Jackson, on the Etheridge.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on pane 3J/.)


Heeiinsfs
Ccyjen/jasfen
7
Est 1818.
a •* «
HEERIMG®
uIERRYBRAHW
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
arc {Re Cof/ect
expression
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their
Spring and Summer Show
et their rooms, 3rd Floor, Denison House
Chambers, George Street, Sydney.
STOMACH TROUBLES DUE TO
ACIDITY.
SO SAYS EMINENT SPECIALIST.
So-called stomach troubles, such as indi-
gestion, wind, stomach-ache and inability to
retain food, instead of indicating that the
stomach is out of order, are in nine cases out
of ten simply evidence that fermentation is
taking place in the food contents of the
stomach, causing the formation of gas and
acids. Wind distends the stomach, and
causes that full, oppressive feeling sometimes
known as heartburn, while the acid irritates
and inflames the delicate lining of the
stomach. The stomach, however, is not at
fault. The trouble lies entirely in the fer-
menting food. Such fermentation is
unnatural, and acid formation is not only
unnatural but may involve the most serious
consequences if not prevented. To prevent
or stop fermentation of the food contents of
the stomach and to neutralise the acid and
render it bland and harmless, half a tea-
spoonful of bisurated magnesia should ho
taken in a quarter of a glass of hot or cold
water immediately after eating, or whenever
wind or acidity is felt. This stops the fer-
mentation and neutralises the acidity in a
few moments. Fermentation, wind and
acidity are dangerous and unnecessary. Stop
or prevent them by the use of a proper
antacid, such as bisurated magnesia, which
can he obtained from any' chemist, and thus
enable the stomach to do its work properly
without being hindered by poisonous gas and
dange r o us acid s.—3l. F. P. —A DVT.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
“Better
than Either’
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia-
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, September 3, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
The one-time German Club in Phillip-
street was carefully prayed over by Scotch-
byterian Moderator John Paterson the other
afternoon. The company then bawled
lustily the “Old Hundredth.” These rites,
with frequent injections of the National
Anthem, having exorcised any enemy spirits,
Deputy-Governor Cullen delivered an im-
passioned hint of the necessity for unity in
the. presence of a common foe. James Burns,
Knight, president of the Highland Society,
which was taking over its new premises with
'pipe and drum and Psalm, spoke as one who
knows. “I have ever noticed,” said he, “the
tenacity with which a Scot aye keeps a grip
on his possessions,” and he waved a hand
towards the decorative walls whence Robbie
Burns looks down on the former scene of
copious libations to Der Tag. Acting-Premier
Fuller came in late for half an hour. He
got an ovation that would turn any first-
right idol green. Every brand of Scottish
accent yelped its “Guid man, George!” Pre-
sent: Dugald Thomson, Currie Elies, Prof.
Andy Stuart. Spencer Brunton, Dr. Mac-
kellar, and every other tartan chiel who
could squeeze in.
The Maorilander, Colonel Mackesey,
D. 5.0., C. 8., is waiting here for a boat to
take him back to active service. He is a
long, hop-pole of a soldier, whose face
shows nearly three years’ deep war-furrows.
“Thin? Look at this!” He shows a hole in
his belt about 4in. back from the buckle.
"That’s where I used to pull it in to in
Palestine—a lovely country in parts, mind
you, but give me, for choice, the pick of our
North Island. Say, the country round my
own home at Whangarei. I’d rather have it
than the Jordan.” Colonel Mackesey got
three days to look at his hilltop near Auck-
land, and now returns to the Promised Land.
There’s Irish in him —the first Mackesey to
land in M.L. was an officer from Waterford.
Lady Ellison Macartney and a young
daughter week-ended with the Cullens on
their way to W.A. In Melbourne they’ll
camp with the Federal Government House
chieftain.
Earl Grey, just dead—a weak heart sent
him here on a health trip in 1914 —was the
friend of any Australian who came into con-
tact with him. “Most fascinating of men”
is the obituary remark of a Sydney official
who went with the Greys—father, mother
and daughter—to Jenolan and then on to big
stations out Coonamble way. He was a
power in Rhodesia before he became Gover-
nor-General of Canada.
St. John Ambulance nurses made a sail-
like formation as their cloaks floated in a
stiff westerly on their annual ’spection day.
Abandoning leather handbags, they marched
up and down outside Government House, the
front Nightingale in each section saluting
Deputy-Gov. Cullen, who gallantly raised his
hat in reply. Dr. Storie Dixson, in the uni-
form that looks like a special constable’s but
isn’t, reviewed the bonnet brigade. He’s an
enthusiastic major in the A.M.C., and when
the ladies came to a halt he got busy with
the male division, who went through
stretcher-drill. The Cullen lady’s nose was
just visible over the top of a fur collar as
she braved the breeze and advanced in single
column. Her William then addressed the
brigade, and handed over to Superintendent
Harris a medal testifying to his long connec-
tion with the Ambulance folk. General Finn
and A.D.C. d’Apice were in the offing, and
Boy Scouts shouldered broomsticks with tre-
mendous dignity.
Assistant-Embarkation-Officer Arthur Lloyd,
who died on Saturday, was a Welsh-
man and a son of the late Captain Henry
Lloyd. R.N. He lived so long in this State
that he became a New South Welshman.
After various vicissitudes, Fortune smiled
again, and a few years ago Captain Lloyd
(he had belonged to the militia) bought the
late Dr. Flashman’s beautiful home, Samares,
at Rose Bay. A few weeks ago he gave his
pretty daughter Enid to her new husband,
Lieut. Rollo Williams.
The latest name to decorate Sydney Uni-
versity’s honor-board is Lindon Biddulph.
LL.B. 1913. The M.C. is his new share
of the alphabet. He enlisted two years ago
at Armidale, where he had been practising
as a solicitor.
Owing to the death of Acting-Premier
Fuller’s father, Mrs. George didn’t go along
to hand Miss Soubeiran a travelling-bag and
the best wishes of the French League of
Help. So the deed was done by Mrs. Jewett
in the presence of many citizens and
Leaguers.
Miss Fanny Australia Hosking, who died
the other day at Burwood, was the daughter
of the first Australian to go to England to
study medicine. His father was a school-
master in Sydney in 1800. Peter, the doc-
tor, after practising his profession in Lon-
don for some years, returned to Sydney on
the ship Sovereign in 1831 and opened his
surgery in George-street. He married a
daughter of Reuben Uther, and George
Uther Ilosking, lately retired from the post
office at Manly, was a son. Dr. Hosking’s
brother John was the first Mayor, of Sydney.
Under the brim of a panama hat Dorothy
Brunton shed a tear or two on a nice new
illuminated address handed to her Bob
Greig from the Actors’ Association, Walter
Bentley having previously read the honeyed
words. Dot had promised herself a rest;
but Morosco’s offer in the U.S.A. was too
good to refuse, so she goes at once to a big
engagement. The little mother, in a claret
silk gown, gave a sympathetic sniff as Dot
got on a chair to farewell the company.
Frances Ross hovered near, Judge Backhouse
beamed on the proceedings, the J.C.W. heads
looked in, and the rooms were chock-a-block
with the popular girl’s brother and sister
mummers. At Her Majesty’s the same night
the d.c. had no standing room to spai’e. A
huge house chorused “Auld Lang Syne” to
any key. as Dorothy-, in a bower, gurgled
softly, “You’ve been so kind to me —(sob)
p’raps they won’t like me—over there —but
(sob) —y-y-you’ll have-me-back-again ?” “Bet
your life!” bawled a lad in khaki. And-so-
say-all-of-ws /
Senior-chaplain Rose, of Homebusli, is
prouder and prouder of his boys. Lieut.
Bernard has got the Military Cross for
organising a party of bombers to counter-
attack. They held the fort so gamely that
Fritz weakened and finally turned tail. And
this came after previous “fine work,” as the
record duly acknowledges.
Rupert Minnett will be missed when the
Red Cross wants someone to round up
motors and their drivers for soldiers’ out-
ings. He is in camp, and that’s the very
good excuse he has for giving up his hon.
jobs.
There was a smallish gathering at the
Town Hall the other afternoon to shake up
interest in War Chest Day on September 28.
No light, other than the little that trickled
through top windows, fell upon the
resolutions. In spite of the Great
Strike the committee swore to go on,
and the A.J.C. has thrown £2OOO into
the hat for encouragement. The tire-
less hon. superintendent, Mrs. Ted Antill,
who has been War-Chesting since August,
1914, effaced herself in the body of the hall.
Here is Mrs. Lys-
ter Ormsby, as ener-
getic as the motor-
car which she drives
—and repairs w r hen
necessary. How
many patriotic and
philanthropic uses
that car has been
put to even its driver
can’t count. It
whizzes to help the
Sportsmen’s Unit in
its search for re-
cruits. At the Jum-
ble Depot in Woo’-
mooloo —a perpetual
bargain-counter for
the poor—they know
the owner of the
vehicle as Miss Ynys
Sutton, the beloved “Missus” who collects
second-hand garments that sell from a penny
upwards. She has French blood in her
veins; perhaps it is that which gives fire to
her efforts. Now at morn she picks up long-
distance, hit-by-the-strike toilers and takes
them to w.ork, and at night lifts them home.
During the day she works at the recruiting
mill —round and round the crowded thor-
oughfares with a returned soldier or two to
help her address the casual crowd. It’s
uphill all the way. But no one can answer
the youth with his back against the nearest
post better than Ynys.
“Got anyone belonging to me at the
Front? Well, yes —every one of military
age, including my husband and three bro-
thers.” “S’pose yer ’usband’s got a soft
billet over there.” The thrust comes from
the fat lady with the roseate countenance at
the back of the crowd. “No, he’s a sergeant
and he had to work his way up. My bro-
thers are doing the same. It’s not so easy
to get soft jobs in France.” “Wot d’you
know about France?” A heckler throws
this feeble little “dud.” “Oh, I happened
to be in Europe in 1914, and worked behind
the lines in France for six months. We
had to cook for the soldiers in those days—
that was before the organisation was ready
that now feeds the men. We were at it
from 6 a.m. till any old time at night.
Then Ynys laughs. “One doesn t mind the
futile questions if the result is a load ot
embryo fighting-men to be motored to the
office.”
Sergeant Lyster Ormsby, one of this
State’s most popular pre-war amateur atb'
letes, is so huge that he was held up in Eng-
land till special trench-boots were made tor
him. J. Bull having none in stock that would
fit his feet. Though his young wife still lias
her British War Office permit to work in
France—a weapon that might plunge
through the passport difficulty—the big Aus-
tralian considers his Best Girl’s duty lies in
her native land. So she stays home with
mother, and does what she can to help her
own folk in the dark hours before the dawn.
For this reason Sydney gets an extra war-
time volunteer whose physique is uncon-
scious of fatigue. And the Sportsmen’s Unit
has a tireless roeruiting-sergeantess.
This fluffy-top is
Mrs. F. J. Mulhol-
land, formerly Kath-
leen Major, an Auck-
land girl. She’s going
to make her profes-
sional debut with
manager Freddy
Shipman’s company,
which leaves Sydney
shortly for the China
coast and the show-
places in between.
Dr. Mulholland, the
legal owner of the
lady who takes the
11 am e of Fer 11
French for stage
work, is in camp in
Maoriland, and will
presently join the
khaki crowd at the Front. His wife hopes
to meet him later in England. Meanwhile,
as a soprano of some brilliance and a dainty
dancer, she’ll entertain cream-and-white
auTTiences as far as Yokohama.
Sister May Baxter, of Burwood, and a
Prince Alfred trainee, after a term at the
Dudley Voluntary Hospital at. Wimereux,
now firesides over the hospital in London
run by Mrs. Cyril Ward. Cyril is a brother
to Earl Dudley; Mrs. Cyril is daughter
of a former American Ambassador to the
Hub, and looked in on Australia when the
Dudleys were camped here. The house-
keeper is another Baxter, widow of a Lieut.
Renshaw who was killed in the Jutland
battle. Mrs. John Hughes, of Sydney, looks
after the linen, and daughters Cecily and
Mary give a hand in the voluntary nursing.
In the dawn of this week the Hospital
Saturday committee handed over its avail-
able £lO,OOO and gave a slight token of
esteem to its former hon. organiser and gen-
eral rouseabout, John J. Cohen. The illumin-
ated address being too large to hang on
even his copious vest, he will dangle a gold
medallion that went with it.
The Ist and 53rd Battalion dames are
going to chance the strike and hold their vil-
lage Fair this Thursday and Friday at
St. James’s.
In the last week of August Lyell Sly, son
°f the legal Slys of Strathfield, who wears
wings in the Royal Flying Corps, came to
earth in Britain long enough to annex
Camilla Mann as his bride. The new Mrs.
Sly is a daughter of the Livingstone Manns
of Neutral Bay. who stepped across to
Blighty before the embargo.
A Narromine girl. Muffle Carter—daddy
owns a station —was farewelled by her
friends at the Persian Garden tea-rooms.
Auntie Carter (Moss Vale) gave the party,
and Mrs. Trefl<§ was there to swell the con-
gratulations. The heroine is going to marry
a Soustralian, one Kirby, and keep house
up-country in the Grape State.
a long dose of orderly dutv in
Wandsworth Hospital, Arthur Streeton is in
France. He’s an “official” war artist now.
O’Connor, widow of Justice
Dick, is temporarily settled in England.
Daughter Kathleen is busy at the usual war-
time grind.
Leafy Ivillara’s raid for the War Chest is
fixed for September 8.
Mrs. John Fell had a big afternoon for
the \Y ar Chest in the terraced grounds of
Rostrevor, where the Lane Cove River laps
the shore. Every visitor took something
besides a blessing for the men at the Front.
Dorothy Nall s recitation was one of the tit-
bits of the party. Signaller Neville war-
vwd ’ & hn Fe 1 lian ded round the cakes, and
' v * r misslona ries Bowden and Budden
sold the Spendthrift Magazine. Lane Cove
rol] «lup splendidly, and the cash
( God bless it! as Grumpy says) will make
a nice splash.
One of the volunteer-driven waggons was
stHW ? / n i? n ; ow city lane b > an irate
Mukei s lady of Amazon size. Holding the
horses’ heads she brought Heaven and h,
other place to witness her determinationT
go on keeping the goods for any old tim
After some argument the Man from
Hill said : “I haven’t seen such a line woman
this many a day, an’ if you don’t let so thl!
horses I’ll have to get down and kiss von m
The lady’s iron countenance relaxed—th
ghost of a smile played round her corrugated
features. Her hands dropped. “You’re nnt
such a bad sort,” said she. “An’ I’ m thin]
ing the same of you, Missus! <I PP
there!” np >
At the cost of a shilling you can help the
War Chest by being present at a Bohemian
evening on September 18. Music and sand-
wiches in the Education Department’s gal-
leries in Loftus-street.
“Artists” who make advt. pictures for
corsets badly need a lesson in the
abe of anatomy. One of him draws
a shocking case of spinal curvature
baslied-in chest and round, stooping
shoulders; then he hangs a few glad rags
"on the object and labels the product "The
Gardenia Corset. There is none like it
Wear this beautiful model and look the
mould of form.” And such is the blindness
of taste that the proprietor of a great busi-
ness allows the Gardenia Girl (with a pro-
tuberance as big as a 12-inch flower-pot
between her shoulders) to hang in his show-
rooms. It is as if a bootmaker exhibited a
club foot, bunioned and corned, as a testi-
monial to the merit of wearing his make of
boots.
A pre-war butterfly is working in a fac-
tory in that part of Sydney which falls
down into Woolloomooloo. “The only real
excitement we’ve had was on the first day,”
she says—“the police had to get us out by
another way, as the front was blocked with
strike-girls generously supplied with hard
and angular compliments. They waited for
us till nine that night, but we were all
peacefully at home getting the flour out of
our noses and ears. It seems to creep right
up the nostrils, and then—tchtcho!”
Little Madeline Clarke, of Brisbane, who
goes off as publicity agent with the Ship-
mans, had to do some wire pulling to get
her clothes over the Queensland border.
Barring the strike the co. meant to call in
at Brisbane. But the hold-up stopped that.
It’s an awful thing to have all your best
lingerie declared “black.” Finally, mother
had to get a “permit” to leave Ryan’s State
with the banned luggage.
Who is going to wear the elaborate even-
ing finery that the Spring shows brought
forth? It’s almost as involved in design
as the prophecies of Peace and Victory.
Black is a usual preface. This makes the
silk or charmeuse slip. Over it is laid
softly as a benediction a gold or blue medal-
lion here and there. Then comes the fluffy
drapery of net or tulle. Over that may be
streaks of jewelled lace, or the revived sequin
in blobs. I’m speaking of the skirt. The
bodice isn’t worth mentioning.
The pockets on the hips this Spring are
handy bags for groceries—heaps of room for
the of salt that is sold as a favor with
the soap and washing soda. The new skirts
will show an inch less of Ermyntrude’s silk
stockings, but there is no other sign of com-
promise. They are more elaborate as to
drapery, and have as many tricks as the art
mantel-drape of long ago.
The blouse, like most threatened things,
lives long. This year it is an annexe to the
skirt of every degree. Made of a puff of
cloudy net it is half-way between an evening
frock and a state of nature —so far as the
bodice is concerned. Thrifty women see sal-
vation in this garment; with an assortment
of such glad rags and one veteran black satin
skirt they can face the pinched days almost
with a smile.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
ltd
JEWELLERS.
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE COMMONWEALTH FOB
WEDDING PRESENTS
After-dinner Coffee-cups and Afternoon Teacups in a variety of designs in
“Royal Worcester,” “Crown Derby,” “Royal Doulton” and “Coali>ort” China.
HARDY BROS LZ2
Set of six “Royal Worcester'’ Coffee-cups and Saucers, with six
solid silver Spoons, in case,
£5 10 0
Five per cent, discount on all cash purchases.
A copy of the company’s illustrated catalogue sent post free on request
SHOWROOMS:
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
You Will Get Best Results
from your snapshots
if you have them
Developed $ Printed
at HARRINGTONS’.
It’s annoying, after taking a snapshot that you may not be able to get again, to find
that it has been spoilt in development through some mistake or omission—all your
trouble has gone for nothing, and the pleasure that you looked forward to is turned to
disappointment.
This will not occur if you have them developed and printed at Harringtons’. We
make a specialty of developing and finishing amateurs’ relatives, and
GUARANTEE THE BEST RESULTS POSSIBLE.
We have frequently been told by visitors to Sydney that, although they have had
photos printed in England and America, they have never had such good results as they
obtained from us.
Every negative receives expert attention, and we have the latest and most up-to-date
appliances for this class of work.
Send or bring your next batch of films or plates to us, to be developed; if you
do your own printing, let us do one print from each negative—it will give you a
standard to work for.
We welcome your inquiries. Send for complete catalogue if you live out of town
it’s free to any address.
Send Your Residues and Assays
= to HARRINGTONS’. =
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal Workers can depend
on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 57-59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metalluigical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
?S6 George St. 127 Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
jp
mm
§
Sf
life
The Instrument of
TO-DAY that supersedes
the Gramophone of
YESTERDAY
THERE is no longer the need to disguise the
defects of reproduction by apologising to your
listeners —“Of course it is only a Gramophone.
Yesterday that need doubtless existed, but
to-day —NOT,
With the advent of the AEOLIAN VOCALION
latent possibilities have been developed, the inven-
tor’s dream realised, as this unique instrument
possesses a perfectly natural tone, clearness of effect
in voice and superior musical qualities which establish
the VOCALION once and for all as majestically
supreme.
To these exclusive benefits is added the greatest of all—the
GRADUOLA DEVICE, with which you interpret the record,
playing to your own dictates, revelling in the wealth of harmony
amazingly correct and pleasing.
ONLY
20/-
For this small monthly payment you can pur-
chase an AEOLIAN VOCALION. Convenient
terms are arranged. The value is exceptionally
good. Each instrument is of beautifully conceived
design and exquisitely finished.
ART CATALOG containing all information sent free on request.
Y< u a'e invited to call and hear the doth recitals. The mire you learn
of AEOLIaN VOCALION the more readily will you desire to purchase
DISC RECORDS in the latest subjects are always available—
Columbia, Zonophone, and His Master s Voice.
All Kinds of Gramophone Repairs
competently attended to by experts
Send Us This Coupon
with your name and address, and we will mail an interesting
descriptive Catalog, showing the easy terms of payment that
tvill place a Vocation in your home without delay.
Please send me Catalog B describing the Vocation as
advertised in Bulletin
Name
Address
idltold
Co.Pty. Ltd. 384 George St.. Sydney.
THE CENTRE
FOR THE WORLDS
GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENTS
• o IN o .
/MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS.
"Aeolian"
m
am
33
I tj l.j 1
as


35 1-
p'' Z '
k
Farmer’s Leather Vests
FOR THE COMING WINTER
OUR Fighting- Men abroad are now faced with another Winter
Campaign. The rigors of winter trench life in France, or
training in the Old Land, can be alleviated and the risks
of chill minimised to a very considerable degree if our soldiers
have the splendid body protection afforded by the SPECIAL
LEATHER VESTS, lined with Chamois. These are obtainable in
all sizes in Farmer’s Fur Salon. A style of Vest highly approved
bv the Military Authorities, it is skilfully cut and well finished,
extra strongly sewn throughout, has two roomy outside pockets, and
fastens down front with leather straps and buckles.
IMPORTANT. —To ensure timely delivery, the Vests should be
despatched AT ONCF..
Price 33/-
Pitt, Market di-
George Streets,
A Simple
HOME
HAIR Treatment FREE!
onderful new Hair Preparation, also Book of
Passage Lessons to be given Free to our Readers.
Thin. weak, discolored, brittle, greasy, split-
ting or falling hair roll a man or woman o
even the semblance of youth. Those, tuer
fore, who are among the many thousands Jusi
now whose hair is deteriorating in quality o
quantity should immediately take advantag
of this special offer announced to-day.
Once you have seen for yourself the wonctei-
ful results of Cretonic Hair Massage, yo» c ““
obtain large bottles from your chemist o
storekeeper at 3s. 6d.
Other Cretonic preparations of excepnona
merit include Shampoo Powders. 3d. each o,
2s. fid. per doz.; Face Cream 35., Face P°?r
•is., Tooth Paste Is.. Medicinal and Toilet Soap
Is. Samples of any of the above sent for.
or the six sent for fid. to cover cost ot
and packing, etc. If Cretonic preparations
are not obtainable locally, refuse substitute
and order direct from the proprietors:—
THE CRETOXTC CHEMICAL CO.,
Country Press Chambers,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
All direct orders sent Post Free. M e make
good all losses or breakages.
r.
CRf lONIC
r IWlp » | o pottBER
> V-
ilrT-’
3,
%
(mfflllC
[rejig
rrov/ C
s.
as -
The proprietors of the world-famous Ore-
tonic Hair Massage have commenced a areat
'»**®
parcel containing all the necessary material*
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Alelbourxe. September 3, 1917.
My Dear Yaruie.—
Lady Helen became quite agitated lately
when absurd rumors got about that, through
neglect, mice were eating the Red Cross
packages at Government House, that most
of the workers were being paid handsomely
for their Red Cross efforts, and that Lady
Helen herself was receiving a salary of £6
a week. Her Ex. orated about it at a tea-
party given at Government House on Tues-
day of last week, and made a definite
statement of what salaries were paid and
to whom. (The delegates of the city and
suburban Red Crossers listened on Tuesday,
and the delegates of the country centres on
Wednesday.) Afterwards everybody made
a special trip all round the ballroom, where
tons of Red Cross goods are carefully stored,
and saw Sassiety in its workaday dress busy
on its honorary jobs in what used to be cor-
ridors and drawing-rooms. The place is
run like an idealised factory, and system and
labor-saving devices are everywhere.
Stewart AlacArthur, K.C., is a sorrowful
man. Flying son Gordon has lost a leg, and
news is through of the death of son-in-law
Alajor Billy Knox, who married pretty and
popular daughter Mildred. Poor Billy was
a fine Australian and a good sport, and
friends innumerable will mourn for him.
On Thursday night James Alenzies, AI.L.A.,
unveiled the new cot at the Ragged Boys’
Home given by Air. E. Jenner in memory of
Private Harold Jenner. (The donor, by the
way, is a son of the late M.L.C.) After a
preliminary entertainment, half concert, half
prayer-meeting, in the big hall, all hands
drifted to the dormitory, where the shrouded
cot stood in line with a row of little white
beds, mostly given by the AVestern District
squattocraey—Staughtons, Austens, Blacks,
etc. As the wrappings were torn away, most
eyes glistened. A laurel crown tied with the
dead boy’s regimental colors hung at the
head, backed by the Australian flag.
Not all the Western District sheep-
fanciers who wanted to be soldiers felt it
necessary to join up in England. The list
of Vic. officers who have completed 1000
days’ service with the A.I.F. contains the
names of Capt. Jtunes Kininmonth (Alount
Hesse) and Capt. Robert Ramway (Tur-
keith). both from the AVinchelsea district,
with Capt. R. G. Chirnside (Kornong).
Alajor-General Brudenell AVhite, who is Vic.’s
most distinguished contribution to the list
of long-service officers, is also recorded as a
Western District representative, though ho
is a Queenslander. The Beggs clan, which
occupies various choice parts of the Western
sheep-country, is proud to claim General
White as cousin, and Airs. White and the
children are nowadays war-timing at. Enram-
been, the original Beggs squattage near
Beaufort.
When the Rajah left Alenzies’ the missus
went to Sydney for a week and came back
with the infant. Now Oriental guests are
standing on chairs to get a view of it when
the nurse trots it round the garden.
Solicitor Ernest Thompson, the new
Alayor of vice-regal Alalvern, is a slim, dry,
placid bachelor with a precise manner and
unimpeachable Sabbath-school connections.
A few years ago, after handling law-forms
since his youth, Thompson was admitted to
practice, and presently followed a course
popular with six-and-eiglitpenny chasers and
entered local politics. Rupert Wilks, who
shepherded the mayoral mothballs before
Thompson took charge, is also a lawyer.
Aforetime the Thompson family used to
tickle the soil in the Kyneton district.
At the somewhat frost-bitten Town Hall
fancy-dance in aid of the L.AI.P. League art-
student Alarcia Jensen came dashingly out of
her shell as Vice. Alarcia’s idea of the
attractive critter was expressed in black-
spangled green satin, with a wineglass and
cigarette as accessories before the —-hie!
Dr. Barry Thompson is a sad man, for his
young brother died suddenly and unexpectedly
last AVednesday. The end came at the
father’s Kyneton home.
Littlejohn, the popular “head” of Scotch
College, is down with pneumonia and having
a hard fight.
Airs. Tainsh (once Alina Moore) gave a
party at her studio for Alargaret Sutcliffe,
and (like her girl guests) was mightily sur-
prised when all the men she had invited
turned up. lan Maclaren was there, looking
rather nerve-worn with the strain of getting
the Shakspearean season into swing. Kay
Souper was another visitor. Captain
Ashcroft, the flying man who has been winged
twice in action, w T as caged for the afternoon.
Max Meldrum (the George Washington of
Victorian Art) put in a hurried appearance.
Lawyer Bona came from his Collins-street
eyrie, and bachelor Claude Ilall handed round
cups in his very best manner. Captain
Stewart, a tall returned man. loomed up,
Jules Grant strolled in. and Mina's own
husband wak there at roll-call.
Mrs. Syd Sands (she was one of the Allen
girls of Sydney before the Colonel annexed
her) gave a big party at the Oriental last
week. The lady looked Spring-like in Dutch-
blue ninon with white etchings of smocking
and a big shady hat of buff and spring roses.
The table was decked out with pink carna-
tions. Mrs. Ashcroft, Airs. Gillespie, Mrs,
Barry Thompson and Airs. Russell Gabb)
were four of the guests.
Alajor Stewart, the genthelp who is mili-
tary secretary to the G.-G., is having a duck
of a house built for hint in a secluded corner
of Government House grounds. It is just
beginning to show its picturesque roof front
among a plantation of palms in the lee of
the ballroom.
Some gentle spinsters fell in while criticis-
ing the soldiers’ “housewives” made by the
Government House Red Crossers. “Good-
ness! what are the hairpins for?” they
giggled, when they found those implements
among the buttons and needles. “To eleau
pipes with, of course !” retorted the experi-
enced married women. (Sniffs.)
Airs. G. V. Lansell, wife of the wounded
Bendigo captain, gave Toorak a lead the
other day when she walked into Young and
Jackson’s Hotel, where the fine pictures are,
and in spite of gasping astonishment coolly
“did” the bar as if it were a Continental gal-
lery or Egyptian bazaar. The Best People
soon got to know of it. and flocked there like
sheep.
Grammar School boys have been wharf-
lumping gaily. They troop down in their
second-best flannels and set to work cheerily.
Their happiest moments, however, are when
they line up, grinning, to draw full-sized
pay-
The other morning somebody advertised
for a carpenter. The applicants were to
come to a Kew corner, and many turned
up. Now it happens that the advertised
rendezvous is close to the right-of-way
which leads to the home of Prime Alinister
Hughes. Presently Billy appeared mounted
for his morning ride; then suddenly he
turned and clattered back. Alaybe he had
a vision of little Pankhurst emerging from
the crowd.
The Buckley and Nunn girls' Cinderella
dance, in Alelbourne Town Hall, in aid of
the Lady Alayoress’s Patriotic Fund, was a
very smart and successful show. Some
original souls won a prize with a “Selec-
tion” set, which included even the baby, the
dog and the parrot. A few of the prettiest
mannequins had a lingerie set. They were
enclosed in boxes of black-and-white stripes.
When the boxes were opened the boys began
to sing, for there were visions of brief and
exquisite undies. The balcony was packed
with onlookers. Guests of honor were Mr.,
Airs, and Aliss Thompson, Air. and Airs. J.
Lillie, Airs. F. W. Lloyd and Air. and Airs.
P. W. Nunn. Air. Higgins helped with the
judging, and secretary Dredge toiled like a
sheep-dog. Crowds of soldiers came to
partner the dancing girls; and there was a
gay splash of scarlet in the hall when the
girls' hunt-set galloped in.
Lauchlan Mackinnon (the one with the
gilded front-entrance to his name) has been
assiduously advertising his motor-car for sale.
This is genuine wai’-economy. Until re-
cently the garage-staff at Corry consisted of
three men, employed to keep the polish bright
on two cars. Two of the three are calling
on the Hun, so Alackinnon is trying to live
up to the precepts of the Argus and be
Thrifty, doing with one chauffeur. And
then, of course, look at the price of paper!
Capt. Lauchlan Alackinnon, A.S.C., who used
to toil in the accounting department of the
Argus, went away long since to try to hand
a receipt to Fritz.
Airs. Ilidgcock is off to Pevensey, the
Alurrumbidgee sheep-station, to help hubby
during shearing. She had a great send-off
from fellow Red Crossers who appreciate
the lively help the lady has given in Alel-
bourne. Two daughters stay on in the
Toorak town house, with instructions to
carry on the good Red Cross work in inter-
vals of tango.
Trinity Grammar School at Kew is get-
ting an energetic headmaster in Frank
Shann, a young Victorian who has skimmed
the cream of all the education his State
could put before him. In the nineties of
last century Frank and his brilliant brother
F.O.G. were the bright boys in the State
school at Prahran. From there they pushed
up, E.O.G. winning a Uni. professorship alter
seizing various scholarships and exhibitions,
whilst Frank returned to earth with a good
degree in his fist. Since IiNM) r rank has
been a teacher at the C. of E. Grammai,
Launceston, the second oldest college in Aus-
tralasia.
Lady Susan FitzClarenec went _ with
the George Armstrongs and Peggy Centre
to Marysville a day or so before she left.
She lisped her admiration of the scenery
for hours afterwards. By the way. it is
said that Doris Blackwood nervously asked
Susan, “Do I lisp as much as you. dear?”
From Lady Adelaide's diary: —
This has been n strenuously patriotic week. 1 riday
was Button Day for the Y.M.C.A., and it dawned in
perfect weather with £O5OO to credit. In the after-
noon Lady Galway presented a Hag from the Unley
district to the 20th Reinforcements of the 27th
Battalion. Wattle Day was on Saturday, and along
the golden grove in the south park lands more trees
were planted by their Exes, and a vagrant M.P. or two.
Less picturesque fixtures were the annual meetings of
the Glenelg and Mitcham branches of the Red Cross
Society, whose country and suburban workers have
put up a most honorable record.
The Germans are still laughing at us. One,
recently interned, held a Government bread contract
which was not due to expire till June 30 next. The
War Precautions Act appears to make no provision
for cancelling such contracts, but a clause in the
agreement gave the Government power to end the
diversion at a month’s notice. That was done, but
by the time it takes effect the enemy joker will have
added about €6OO of our money to his banking
account, and that since his internment. (Now, don’t
faint —here’s the smelling-salts.) You’ll be glad to
know, however, that things are improving. A dis-
trict council has substituted Birdwood for Bismarck
in its list of locality names.
The Governor returned on Sunday from Melbourne,
where he included a closer view of Heaven from an
aeroplane in his list of junketings. He climbed high,
but so did Jack on the Beanstalk, yet the mystery
remains unsolved.
Patriotic societies have lost one of their best
workers in Mrs. W. F. Stock, who died suddenly on
Thursday. The Cheer-Up Hut was one of her special
proteges. She was a daughter of the late Edward
Spicer and a sister of Mrs. H. D. Cook and the late
many-times Mayoress Edwin Smith. Her first hus-
band, Mr. Haigh, was well known in the Port
Lincoln district. Mr. Stock, who was a lawyer-
politician, died about four years ago.
The Munro Ferguson visit in September is keeping
the usual entertainment organisers from dying of
lassitude.
Captain J. R. Beard has won the Military Cross.
He gave up newspaper work to study medicine at
the Adelaide University, and took his M.B. degree
before going to Egypt and France with the A.M.C.
The Adelaide Club is apparently to lose its
present unrighteous privilege of being able to trade
grog after six o’clock. At any rate, an attempt
will be made to bring it within the provisions of
an Amending Licensing Bill that is being drafted.
Doris Raymond, an East Melbourne
beauty, is wearing an engagement diamond.
The lucky man is Charlie Amor, son of the
Inky Wayfarer who owns the Mansfield
Courier.
Sam Lazarus, president of the Bendigo
Racing Club and brother of D. 8.. ex-M.L.n,.
and Mayor of Bendigo, conferred the title
of “Mrs.” upon Miss Washington Smith on
Wednesday last. The engagement happened
a week after they were introduced, and only
14 days were allowed to elapse before the
certificate was signed.
The September meeting of the Y.A.T.C.
at Caulfield brought up racing clouds and
icy showers, and two stands were crammed
full of sheltering people. Mrs. Rogers
Thompson wrapped her Spring gown in cosy
ermine, but Miss Fenner determined to show
her pale-blue dress, even if it did luok
chilly. Mrs. Sam Mackay wore a jaunty
Tam o’ Shanter and a prime cloth dress.
The Rajah’s missus wore familiar navy-blue
tailorings and hat. Both also-rans. Sister
Fink flared a huge turquoise-blue mushroom
hat, like a poisonous fungus. Mrs. Russell
Gabb was almost extinguished by a fash-
ionable black lid, and wore an anchor on
her veil just below her left grey eye. The
fashion for patterned veils is growing.
Women pay fabulous prices for the things
and prefer gold- and silver-thread patterns.
Mrs. Cooper wore putty color and a pot hat
Yolk-of-egg yellow dotted the landscape!
One rash woman even wore chrome yellow
stockings beneath her brief skirts ' The
Bensons were over from Adelaide, and Mrs.
Benson was muffled in furs. Inter-State
visitors are learning not to take chances
with a Melbourne spring.
The shop mannequins were everywhere
Stripes are apparently to be the new in-
sanity. The ultra-smart damsels looked
like venturesome birds caught in a thunder-
storm. According to the walking fashion-
plates, the new hat must be of shiny straw :
also it must turn down over the head like a
capsized bucket. Hat straw is scarce and
expensive ; consequently the fashion is boom-
Mrs. McCubbin, Mrs. Sellheim and a hi,
bouquet ot helpers are preparing for a f r ' ‘f
raid on Mdbourne for the ICepatriatiou
l und. die scheme has some mysterious
connection with peggy-bags. Dorothy j o ;
got the idea from her native Alaoriland
The indefatigable llyams sistern have
strong committee for the ball they
organising on the Red Cross and Am'eliorn
tion Fund ticket at St. Kilda Town n ,]|
on October 2. For some unfathomable rea
son they are calling it Le Bal Australiein
The Guild of Service for Soldiers— South
Yarra’s most industrious war-agency held
its annual meeting under pious conditions
last week; with the Rev. Townsend purrine
in the chair. President Mrs. Robert Harper
followed up with a speech in her ‘ soft
Scotch voice, afternoon tea was handed out
at two bawbees the cup, and everything was
lovely except the weather.
To swell the Red Cross funds theatricals
raged at Melbourne Grammar on Tuesday
and Wednesday nights, and the Dig ball was
crowded both times by the Rest People
The schoolboy Idled all parts in L’inero’s
‘•The Schoolmistress.” The show mas man-
aged by chaplain Arnold and his wife.
Millie Macaw, the Melba pupil who had
her debutant concert for the soldiers, col-
lected £2OO by the effort. The young singer
took all the expenses of the concert on her
own shoulders, so that the trenches should
get the gross takings.
At Melba's farewell class the big room at
the Conservatorium was packed with pupils,
(lowers and guests. The queen urged, ex-
horted, praised, blamed, encouraged, smiled
or frowned as each pupil merited her appro-
bation or not. Mrs. Gillott, Miss Hunter-
Watts, Captain Cochrane, of ti>e Navy.
Italian Consul Eles. Mrs. Fred AleCubbin.
Mrs. Foster and Margaret Sutcliffe, from the
King’s Theatre, sat in the front pew. Billy
Hughes and bis missus popped in during the
proceedings, and, after listening to little
Marion Lloyd .Tones sing a Welsh song in
his honor, told the girls how charming they
were and how lucky to have Melba's tuition.
Masses of spring flowers were pressed on
Mrs. Billy, and the pair then trotted off to
Win the War again. The pupils' concert
last week raked in the respectable sum of
£2OO for the Italian Red Cross, and Consul
Eles thanked Melba gracefully.
In spite of a big house, the orchestral con-
cert of the Northcote Fund presents a bal-
ance-sheet with a slight list—about £30 —to
the wrong side. The fund managers are
hopeful, however, and there will lie another
concert on Saturday, September 20. when
Brahms's Spring Symphony and some com-
plicated Elgar music will be sawn off.
City Organist Price is feeling very pleased
with himself. He organised a municipal
concert in the Town Hall with popular
artists, a long programme, a strict No
Encore rule —admission Od. and Is. The
experiment was so successful that the con-
cert had to he repeated later iu the week to
give those turned away a second chance.
That settled it: the concerts will be con-
tinued every first and third Thursday. Bal-
cony Is., body of hall Gd.
Kathlene Macdonell gave a special and
exclusive matinee last Thursday for mili-
tary nurses and wounded soldiers. Charlie
McLennan and a string of other motorists
carried the guests to the Theatre Royal
from Caulfield and the Base. The nurses
were skied in an angelic white-eoiffed
throng in the balcony, while men sat in the
stalls. Senator Pearce had a box and sat
therein with seven children. Colonel Sands
joined the party for a little while. Mrs.
Tallis and some friends were in the mana-
gerial pen. The show went with a rush,
though the front stalls and the lower boxes
were placarded in large staring letters with
the cruel word “Crippled”—presumably for
the guidance *of lame guests. I wanted
to hide that grim reminder. The star-
hostess made a tearful speech at the finish
about the “noble brave heroes.” and the
noble brave etc. looked uncomfortable. It
is difficult to praise an Australian to his
face. He’d much rather you cut that out
and got busy removing the incompetents
who, having been got rid of somewhere else,
have been foisted upon him here and in Eng-
land.
Ethel Gunn, who had a bright but brief
footlighting career in such pieces as “Are
You a Mason?" with George Guldens and
Ethel Knight Mollison (Mrs., Bertie Kelly),
is now the wife of Fleet-Surgeon Lavertine.
At present she is tucked away with a bunch
of thriving kiddies at Southsea, England,
whilst hubby is on duty at Malta.
Tasmanian children who are being schooled
in Melbourne had an exciting time when the
strike threatened to cut off their ferry
just on the eve of holidays. However, a
bunch of excited youngsters were bundled
aboard a boat at the eleventh hour. The
hunch included Archers, Boyces. Reids and
Sprotts.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


T he power to inspire confidence is one of the greatest assets of whisky as it is of man But there must be a
solid foundanon of worthiness. Dewar’s is always the same grand and genial spirit ever constant in its
promotion of good fellowship. So unchangeable is its seducnve charm that men rightly call it
THE SPIRIT SUPERB.


Do You Suffer from Headaches, Backache,
Dizziness, Lassitude, Poorness of Blood?
If so, Attend to Your Nerves.
A QUALIFIED CHEHIST S ADVICE.
Overstudy at school, overwork after leaving school, the stress of enervating climatic
conditions, worry and defective digestion sooner or later lead to a depletion of the
nerve forces, thereby causing headaches, backache, dizziness, lassitude, sleeplessness,
nervous dyspepsia, poorness of blood, and a hundred and one other of the ailments to which
human flesh is heir. .Many people (though acting with the very best of intentions)
actually aggravate these conditions by flying to stimulants to brace themselves up or
to narcotics to ease down the pain. If you had a horse, low in condition you would
not try to keep him working by doping him with stimulants and narcotics' would you’
Of course not. You would give him strengthening food. Then why not treat vour
impoverished nerves by nourishing instead of doping them? Give them something that
will restore the lost elements of nerve tissue. If you follow this course, you will find
vitality gradually returning and your ills as surely disappearing. You can get no
liner nerve food than that which is provided in concentrated form in Hean’s Tonic
Nerve Nuts. Hundreds of users all over Australia are testifying to the wonderful
restorative properties of these little nerve nourishers and strength builders If vou can
not get them from your local chemist or storekeeper, send direct to the manufacturer
G. W. Hean, chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Their price is Ss. per bottle or
six bottles for 17s. 3d. One enthusiatic user writes: “For the good thev have done’me
I would not begrudge a guinea a box for them.” ‘ e
Jk Signal Success
<5?
King George IV
Xhc TOP-NOTCH ScotcK
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Unele”: When Father O’Eriu thunders
about “mixed marriages” I remember the various
experiments of Mrs. X. A white woman herself, she
first married a white man—issue one girl, mentally
very dull. Then she wedded a black gent.—issue
two very dark, woolly-headed children, real wide-
awake customers and active as cats. Upon the death
of the negro she married a Chinaman—issue a couple
of fine boys. The Chow was an industrious market-
gardener, and, having saved some money, he sent his
elder boy to China for education. (Just as the Eng-
lishman sends his kid “Home.”) It was the joy
of the family's home-town to see the three colors on
Sunday parade. All the children were well-mannered
and, with the exception of the first husband’s child,
attended a X. S. Wales public school. The mother
was proud of her mixed brood, and kept them
dressed in good taste. I rate her above all the
painters as the most daring colorist we’ve ever had
in Australia.
“Off, THERE’S MANY A STEP GROWS
LIGHTER, COMING HOME!"
“Pick”: “Private Room” asserts (B.
- 8/’l7) that manna, in season, is found under any
species of gum-tree. Wrong. In my many sheep-
tending and ’possum-hunting days I gathered sacks
of the delicately-flavored exudation, but never from
under any tree except the ribbon-gum, unless when
carried therefrom by the colonies of sugar-ants that
wake most use of the product. The ribbon-gums are
better known by the name “manna trees,” and other-
wise are the least useful in the Australian bush.
“Ohal”: The mice of Ivinnabulla (Vic.)
are becoming very partial to a morsel of live pork,
and the fact is causing local pig-owners anxiety. The
pigs apparently lie quiescent whilst the little brutes
are gnawing tlirough their tough hides, but then
the fun begins. There’s not a porker but shows their
marks, and many are carrying sores as large as a
crown-piece and a quarter of an inch deep. But the
worst indignity was heaped upon Packham’s cham-
pion sow Sally. One night the old lady was
observed grunting and shaking her head. No notice
was taken at the time ; but when next morning she
was found squealing and endeavoring to rub one of
her ears off, Packham and the rest of the family
intervened. They found that a pair of newly-wed
mice had taken Sally’s left ear as a flat in which to
start housekeeping.
* * • »
“Ivan Peutland”: "Phil Anthus” (B.
16/8/’l7) asks for the derivation of Gcrygjne, the
generic name of the flveater family, whose melody
he much admires. The word was apparently coined
by Theocritus, a poet who lived a couple of centuries
b.c. and wrote the Billjim poems of his day about
the Greek badkblockers then living in Sicily. He
uses it to describe an echo. It is compounded of
two Greek words meaning respectively “voice” (or
“sound”) and “offspring.” A fair translation of it,
in the flyeater’s case, would be “child of song.” As
it is in the feminine form, it is strictly applicable
only to Mrs. and Miss Flyeater.
* * * «
“C.J.W.”: Anybody know why oranges
and lemons kill cattle? Recently, through frosts and
high winds, these fruits on the Upper Macleav
(N.S.W.) were strewn in profusion on the ground,
and where stock had access to the windfalls evil
results followed. Mrs. W. McMaugh, of Blackbird
Flat, lost three cows that had gone on an orange jag ;
and Mr. Hill, of the same district, is minus one
beast whose weakness was lemons. Old hands state
that similar casualties were noticed on the Clarence
20 years ago.
* # * *
“Silas Snell”: Laver was the man who
made his own god. He was a hut-dweller at The
Well, in the Victorian big-timber, and owner of a
patch of three or four hundred acres, with more
trees on it than a regiment could shift in a life-
time. Close to his door was a box butt about Bft.
high, standing on ita own roots, 2ft. through, and
solid as a rock. This butt had some sort of resem-
blance to the human figure to begin with, and Laver,
who had a natural gift as a whittler of sticks, bones,
emu eggs, etc., started hewing at it to bring out
the form. “It’s company fer a feller,” he said.
When Laver had put in a year or so on the head
it presented quite a comely female face, with a
flowing coiffure. Then he started to work down.
He was another year rounding the bust to his satis-
faction, using a photograph of a
French nude as his model. Highly
delighted, he went seriously to
work to complete the form. He
put in another year or two, and
a life-sized statue in box-wood
stood before his hut door, a plump
nymph, and an excellent replica
of the cherished photograph,
which represented a presentable
young person in the altogether,
trying the temperature of a pass-
ing stream with a pink toe.
Laver’s lady was known for miles
around; in the opinion of the
rude dwellers in those wilds it
was “a bit ’ot.” At this stage
Laver became infatuated, less with
the lady than with his work. He
devoted himself to art. He
carved the pedestal of his statue
into a representation of a bank
with a hint of rippling water. The
bank he clothed with grass and
flowers and fallen leaves, care-
fully carved. I cannot say how
Laver lived at this stage; the
wonder is that he lived at all.
Then he “qualified,'- and an in-
fluential resident got him the old-
age pension. That started him at
it all over again—putting a
minute finish and polish on the
head ; working the hair into im-
possible detail. Suddenly The
Well realised that the hatter had
gone “off his chump.” He had
been seen kneeling before his
statue. He placed gift offerings
about the base. After meticulous
saving he had been able to buy a
ruby ring for the lady’s finger.
He burnt a little fire before the
figure all night. And then the
fires of December, 1914, went over The Well and ate
up much of Laver’s timber, demolished Laver’s hut
and reduced the lady to a charred stump. Laver per-
ished, too. Apparently he died fighting- for his
goddess ; at any rate, they found him at the foot of
the statue, a burnt-offering, scarcely recognisable as
human. His bones were buried in the little ceme-
tery at ’The Well, and a charred stump vaguely
human in shape is his gravestone.
“Ayer Pauas’’: All the water supply of
the Perth Zoo comes from an artesian bore. It
bubbles up at 103 deg. F., or just over blood-heat,
and it’s great to soak the lawns with in winter-
time; it gives a growth of grass impossible with
ordinary tap-water at winter temperature.
“Snell” : Willie Watt says a gang of men
on the trans-continental have struck work because the
boss of the bunch used bad language in addressing
them. What has come over the Australian navvy?
Take the case of Cadwallader as demonstrating the
proper respect the old-time navvy had for a gaffer
who swore like an artist. Cadwallader had a cutting-
near Emu on the St. Arnattd line. He was the most
gifted ejaculator on 100 miles of construction, and
his reputation extended to every corner of the State
HIS EXHAUSTED VOCABULARY.
ZEALOUS COP: “Have you anything to say about this occurrence!"
MOTORIST: “ Anything to say? I’ve said all I can think of. If you can suggest anything
further I shall be obliged ."
where pick-and-shovei men and platelayers met.
But suddenly he was “removed,” and his place
was given to a comparatively dull Cornishman with
an impediment in his speech. The men in the cutting
took it in bad part, and when next the contractor
put in an appearance one man waited upon him as
representative of the whole, and expressed the general
desire for Cadwallader’s return. “Can’t be done,”
said the boss emphatically. “Cadwallader’s a good
man, but we can’t put him over the gang again.
M hy, bless my soul, every time he started swearing
the whole blasted gang, 25 of you, stopped work to
listen to him!”
* * * *
“O.S.H.”: “Flinderino” (B. 2/8/T7) is
off the line in saying that lie has found the “Johnny
Jumper ’ up to 12in. long. He is confounding J.J.
with the goby ( Gobius), a fish which is closely allied
to John, the mud-skipper, and which is found all
over the world. Periophthalmus (Johnny J.) over
4in. long is unknown to scientists. The fish which
“Eryander” (B. 9/8/’17) says he found in Borneo is
the goby. Periophthalmus can certainly hang out
for more than 24 minutes ashore, for I have spent
fully 10 minutes chasing one of him over the mud
flats, along which he hops at a great rate, and in
the end the little wretch beat me to the water and
swam off gaily wagging his tail behind him.
. * * * *
“Bill R.”: There’s nothing for “Melc” to
get excited about (B. 9/8/T7) in finding a honey-
eatei held up by a spider s web. In the Nerrimunga
forests, spreading over the uplands to the north of
the Shoalhaven valleys (N.S.W.), a long-legged,
mauve-colored spider, with round red spots on’his
dressing-gown, lives in the open, among the saplings
and brushwood. From bramble to bramble he plaits
immense networks of web, and no bushman who has
walked into these sticky entanglements or tried their
strength would marvel at so small a bird as the
honey-eater being ensnared. I have seen old-man
kangaroos dodging them, and a horse that knows the
feel of the glutinous tangle would more willinglv
advance against barbed wire.
“loma Hauk” : I had no trouble the only
time I expenmented in domesticating wild i '
I set eggs under a broody hen and / 5 '
black ducklings. These made themselves o ,„'t tW °
home—l didn’t even have to resort to cutting m
wings. That was over two years ago, and thev im
hang out at our ranch—on the Northern (\\ w
Rivers. v
* * * *
“Pandanus”: A community of Bm s h\,
commonly known as the Seven Rivers tribe lh
hang-out is on the shores of the Gulf of Caro
taria, about 60 miles from Cape York have™
peculiarity in reference to their women. ’ I visit a
this crowd once for the purpose of getting thF
native names, and while the men gave theirs with
out hesitation, when it came to the females I ], ,i
Double. The first she I tackled happened to b>
the chief’s wife. He whispered her name into my
ear and I repeated it aloud. King Billy promptly
took a fit and danced around with his hands over
his mouth, as if holding back a torrent of Binghi
swears. V hen he recovered he begged me not to
mention a gin’s name aloud, as it brought great
shame on her. When the other women’s turn canto
they whispered their monikers into the boss’s shell-
like ear, and he held his hands over his eyes while
he murmured it to me. About their “civilised”
names, such as Spider, Milman, Medicine, etc., the'
were not at all reticent.
TOO STORMY FOR HIM.
JACK: "First yer goes mud ’cos I can’t tell
yer where we’re been, it bein’ against
orders. Then yer says I’ve got a wife
in every port. Well. I’ll tell yer this
much—thank ’eavens (from what I know
of ’em) we ’aven’t been in many ports."
“M.L.M.”: Recently among the rocks at
Palm Beach, Sydney’s northernmost surfing resort,
there was discovered a work of art by one of Aus-
tralia’s old masters —-an aboriginal rock-drawing of a
fish 22ft. long with a sft. 6in. man inside. Was
Jonah s historian an Australian?
(Continued on paye 24.)
QUITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Ben Unger's wife was dark and small,
With little, round, black eyes;
Ben Unger started at her call,
For Ben had been made wise.
No dirge could crush his spirit but
The one by Annie sung ;
No whip-lash ever made could cut
Like Annie Unger’s tongue.
But Annie had a round, red cheek,
A figure like a plum,
And Henderson from up the creek
In courtship sly would come.
Then Annie voiced no angry call,
Her dirge remained unsung,
And very gentle was the fall
Of Annie Unger’s tongue.
Ned Holman went to Ben upon
The hill in Colter's hay.
He said: “Your wife with Henderson
Ran off at ten to-day!”
Ben stood stock still. “All right!” said he;
Then, w ith a little laugh:
“That makes us quits at last. ’Twas me
That stole his brindle calf!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
* *
“Rann I).”: The failure of the blacks to
breed among themselves is ven striking in com-
parison with the fertility they show when mixing
with other races. At some of the camps along the
Maranoa and Warrego (Q.) there is an extraordinary
assortment of colors and shapes. By looking at a
crowd of piccaninnies you can get some idea of
the history of the district, and they form a useful
calendar for casual memories. “What year did l
have the horse-paddock ring-barked?” an old cattle-
man answered me once. “To tell the truth 1
disremember exactly. But see those three yellow-
skinned boys by the rails. They’re about' nine
ain’t they? It was a gang of Chinese ringbarkers
that I got to do the job.” Three years before a
couple of Hindu hawkers used to come round regu-
larly, and they also had left their marks on the
camp across the creek. Then, of course, there were
living records of a.day when the white Australian
had gone visiting.


Murdoch’s Famous Boots
with Armourite Soles
If you don’t know the value of
“Armourite”—get acquainted.
“Amourite” is far superior to ordinary
leather, and is made by a secret harden-
ing process that doubles the life of the
leather and gives it the resisting quali-
ties of armour-plate, while preserving
its pliability.
Murdoch’s Armourite
Soles will Outwear
Two Ordinary Soles.
These Boots are a splendid proposition
for men who want the best possible
footwear values.
The uppers are made from specially-
selected leathers, Black Box Calf and
Tan Calf (same shape as illustration,
also medium round toe), and are shod
with Murdoch’s famous “Armourite”
Soles.
Made in a variety of shapes, they are
comfortable and easy fitting. When
you buy Murdoch’s “Armourite” Boots
you give first aid to your banking
account. Every pair is guaranteed—
“ Satisfaction or your money back.”
Obtainable at Murdoch’s only.
ORDER A PAIR TO-DAY !
Black 22/6 p os t
Tan 24/6 Free -
Send particulars of size, shape, etc., to
Desk R.
MURDOCHS
in Park Street Ltd., Sydney
\ry?opi
"COMPLETE OUTFITTERS FOR MEN AND BOYS.”
NORTH
BRITISH
(IjNCHE
jyrcs
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
U”£He
%
m
•<
>r-
m
SS3K
■*>:£
i
Os
i
»»
I
1
SMITH v
JULIU?
r
The Tyres that
are Superior"
As used by the' BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WILLIAM CROSBY & CO.
20 Loftus Street, Sydney
Wholesale Agents for
New South Wales.
THE DEPENDABLE ENGINES
We attribute the large and successful distribution of Cooper Engines throughout Australia entirely to the fact that we have given the public an
engine that represents all the word "dependable" implies.
All over Australia, from the largest sheep-stations to the smallest farms, you will find Cooper Engines driving Shearing Machinery, running
Saw Mills, cutting chaff, pumping water, running Cream Separators, Eeed Mills, Lighting Plants and various machinery.
'They have become nationally popular—they have been tried and proven a success. They contain the great essentials lor a first-class engine—
power strength endurance , simplicity and economy . Every engine must develop at least 10 r /« above its full rated brake-horsepower—each part is
built to stand far more than its rated ioad, which ensures long life and small replacements. They must have the endurance to stand the hardest
knocks about the station and give years of consistent, dependable service, at a reasonable operating and maintenance cost.
Take, for instance, the 8-
brake-horsepower Horizontal
(too per Engine illustrated
here. It is fitted with force
fuel pumps which keep an
even llow of fuel up to the
carburetter all the time. It
gives an even running not
possible with an engine
which depends on the intake
suction only to bring the
fuel from the base to. the
carburetter. Every cylinder
is fitted with an extra liner
of special high-quality metal,
ensuring longer years of sat-
isfactory service. It can be
cooled with the hopper n>
illustrated, or in extremely
dry and warm climates it
can be fitted with an extra
large water tank and thermo-
syphon system of cooling,
which absolutely prevents
any possibility of over-heat-
ing in the hottest climates.
It has lock valve system,
removable bearings, speed
regulator and many other
improvements which ensure
ease of operation and econ-
omy of fuel consumption,
and last but not least the
price is very attractive: —
£5O
K.-
$mM *
i *i A
:., i-
This 3-Brake-
H.P. Engine
Imilt into a complete, com-
pact 2-stand shearing plant
ready for work :
SEMI-
PORTABLE,
£BO
Mounted on Strong
Under-carriage,
£9O
The same engine, stationary,
complete with a high-grade
rising mouth, reversible gear
ehaffcutter. including belt-
ing, pulleys, etc.: —
£6711 0-
Or complete, stationary, with
a substantial, sliding top
saw bench, 24in. saw, belt-
ing. etc.: —•
£65
[f you have any work requiring engine power, write us to-day, and we will send you price and full particulars
it you na e y outfit to suit your requirements.
COOPER engineering company limited
,34 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY. 486 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
We also have an Agent in Every State and Town in the Commonwealth.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southam]:'.on. — Advt.
ZANETiq entirely eliminates the danger of un-
ZtT C ° PleS - By USin§r ft in P en^u Plicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
smled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. p
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE,
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Th" most effedive and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/0 a Bottle from your Chemist.
Ii not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
INSURING GOOD DIGESTION.
IMPORTANCE OF PREVENTING FOOD
FERMENTATION IN STOMACH.
Good digestion usually means good health.
So long as the stomach does its work prop-
erly disease can find no lodgment in the
human system; the liver, kidneys and intes-
tines will perform their work perfectly and
remain in perfect health ; but interfere with
the proper digestion of food and an unending
train of troubles is set in motion. About
the only thing that will upset the stomach
and interfere with the digestion is an excess
of acid, usually caused by food fermenta-
tion. Food fermentation is due to chemi-
cal action in the food itself. This fermenta-
tion causes the formation of gas or wind,
as well as acid, resulting in the unnatural
distention of the stomach and the burning
by the acid of the delicate lining of the
stomach.
Medicines and tonics cannot relieve this
condition—they usually make it worse. The
fermentation and acid are to blame, and
these must be overcome and prevented by
taking after meals half a teaspoonful of
bisurated magnesia in a little hot or cold
water. Physicians x’ecommend bisurated
magnesia especially because it stops or pre-
vents fermentation of food and neutralises
the acid instantly, making it bland and
harmless, without irritating or upsetting the
stomach in any way. Get a little bisurated
magnesia from your chemist and try it the
next time your food ferments and upsets
your stomach. Note how quickly the acid
is neutralised, and how soon you forget that
you have such a thing as a stomach. — Advt.
On Active Service
—but no Smokes
! Your friend at the hront is
' defending you —are you see-
png to it that he does not
have to go without a smoke ?
It is a little matter to you,
but a big one to him. Send mm
“ De Reszke” Cigarette,
worthy of the very best, ro
them- yourself—then you kno
he will get them safely.
Sold Everywhere
“Captain”: North of New Guinea there’s
a flyspeck of an island which is a tropical paradise.
Many years ago a ship dropped anchor there at
night, the first to call, and when day broke the
awestruck natives reckoned that it had come down
from the heavens. Shortly after sun-up the captain
was rowed ashore and, being the first white man
the niggers had encountered, they lost no time in
falling down to worship him. Ilis image in wood
is still their god. The “old man” played up to
the part, and sailed again in the night without
lights showing or hail. If you pay that village
a visit the hoys will give you a peep at their god
and tell you how he came to them in a big ship
from the sky.
* * * *
“S.O.II.”: A powerful locomotive can be
brought to a standstill by something less burly than a
general strike. Here in the coastal districts of
Westralia, for instance, a little brown caterpillar
often does it. The pest is found crawling along
the railway lines, in the early morning, sometimes
in processions up to 20 yards in length. The nuis-
ance is overcome by placing a stout brush about a
foot in front of the engine’s fore wheels, flush with
the metals. This method has been used for about
four years with good results.
“Eddyson”: McCaulay tells the story. “I
was takin’ it easy under a half-cwt. bag iv speci-
mens, trampin’ down from Onion Hill, when she
comes wallopin’ atop of me on a great gawk of a norse
’bout 19 ’ands high. She was ridin’ astride —a black-
eyed, brown-faced dame ’bout 40, showin’ her teeth
like a cornered cat. ‘Here,’ she sez, ‘you—have you
seen a man along this road this morning?’ ‘What’s
his marks, mum?’ sez I. ‘A shortish, stiff-set man,
whiskers brown —full set—eyes dark blue, small blue
pimple on the corner iv his nose, permanent.’ I
hadn’t seen the bloke with the permanent pimple, ’n’
told her so. She said not another word, but hit up
her hoi’se, ’n’ was off. That was a Chewsdee. Friday
I was at Copout, when up comes the feme dame,
ridin’ the same ’orse. She flings herself off et the
dorgleg fence, ’n’ comes paddlin’ through Shoppie's
onions, ’n’ sez she: ‘Hi, you. Have you seen a man?’
‘Same full set iv whiskers ?’ I sez, ‘same permanent
pimple? There ain’t any such round hereabout.’ She
was dustier *n’ thinner than when I first saw h.er,
but game ez a bird. Off she went agin, licketty-
split. A week later a chap up from Cobalt expertin’
fer Barrow’s corn-’arvester, told us about a lank
female seekin’ a feller with whiskers ’n’ a pale-blue
pimple. ‘She had a ’orse t’ begin with,’ he said,
‘but it died under her.’ It was my dame, of course.
Well, I seen nothink ’n’ heard nothink more of her
fer close on a year. Then I was gettin’ back to
Onion Hill, me specimens havin’ panned out better
than I’d expected, when I put in fer the night et a
farm’ouse nine mile this side. The farmer’s name
was Howe, a tallish, thin, clean-shaved, grey-eyed,
veller-’aired man, ’n’ he made me welcome. When
we reaches the kitchen you could ha’ knocked me
over. Hell! if it ain’t my black-eyed, brown-faced
’orsewoman, but jist a little more trim. She don't
know me from a crow, but I looks Howe over ’n’ I
don’t see where'he comes in. ‘Well, mum,’ sez I,
when Howe was out, ‘did you get his jills in the
long run? I’m referrin’,’ sez I, ‘to the party with
the pale-blue pimple.’ ‘Oh!’ she sez (’n’ she takes
a look out iv the door to locate the present Mr.
Howe), ‘that was a man promised to marry me ’n’
then ran,’ ‘But did you git him?’ sez I. ‘No,’ she
THE USUAL LOTION.
ROGERS : “That's a had cold you have,
Guzzler. Are you talcing anything for
it?”
GUZZLER: “Thanks, old man, I don’t care if
I do.”
sez; ‘but I would have if I hadn’t got another on
the way.’ ‘Meanin’ Howe?’ sez I. She Pods. Howe
gave me the strength of it later. ‘Clifford was the
man she was after,’ sez Howe. ‘She found out I’d
sold him a ’orse just a now before she reached my
place, ‘n’ there you are.’ ‘Whatclier mean—there you
are?’ sez I. ‘Well,’ sez Howe, ‘she held-me respon-
sible /’ ”
CLEARING HIMSELF.
THE BARBER : “ ’Air’s gettin ’ very thin on the top, sir.”
THE CRUSTY PERSON : “Bit personal, aren’t you?”
THE BARBER (hurt): “Why, ’ave I so much as mentioned the squint you got in yer eye?
Now, ’ave I?”
“Bonragi”: The cinnamon-scented mas-
soia-bark is mentioned by “MeN'orth” (B. 2/8/’l7)
as enjoying a reputation as a powerful medicine
among the peoples of Western Papua. Depends
what he means by medicine. Among the Binandele
of the North-East Coast the stuff is credited with
wondrous properties as a love philtre. If you can
get your best girl or boy to sniff a chip of massoia-
bark given by you—well, you win. Not that the
stuff really has any magical effect —I have tried it
myself with negative results —-but the recipient is so
accustomed to consider resistance useless when he
or she finds himself or herself up against the chip
that the desired object is attained.
* * * •
“Mallet”: Where did the idea that coo-ee
was a Binghi call originate? My experi-
ence with the blacks in southern West-
ralia led me to the conclusion that Binghi
does not call, as a rule. He whistles;
and the shrill cry will carry farther than
the screech of a Baldwin engine. When,
on rare occasions, the W.A. natives do call,
they let go something that sounds like
“Yah-ho,” and the experience of our party
was that yah-ho would keep on travelling
long after coo-ee had faded out. Coo-ee
as a blackfellow’s hail has apparently been
accepted without question, just in the same
way as the Westralian ring-neck parrot got
his name of “28.” I recollect reading an
article by Donald McDonald in which, re-
ferring to this bird, he said: “When dis-
turbed they fly from the tree, calling
‘twenty-eight’ as plainly as a man could
say it in English.” In my years of obser-
vation of this parrot, I have never heard
him call anything like “twenty-eight.”
Once, when doing up a cheque, I heard,
when half asleep, a parrot give a call
that by a stretch of distorted imagination
might he said to resemble “twenty-three.”
But perhaps MacDonald had been on the
spree longer than I had.
# * * *
“Melos” : The yellow-belly ( Hydrus plat-
vrus) is the commonest Australian sea-snake, and is
frequently found on our beaches after gales. It
rarely exceeds 3ft. in length. One, caught at Caloundra
(Q.), measured 45Jin., a record for the Com-
monwealth, I believe. The nostrils are on top of the
snout and are provided with a valve which closes
when the owner dives after filling a capacious lung.
The tail, which is large and considerably flattened,
acts as a propeller and a rudder.
“Lantana”: The fact is that none of you
are anywhere near a correct estimate of record
price for a bullock in Australia. This is it—
£9s4 17s. 6d. The beast was put up to auction on
France’s Day at Wagga and the bidding hasn’t
closed yet.
“E.S.S.”: “Foolar” (B. 9/8/T7) is in
error. I did not say that “the wonga is the pick
of the bush pigeons,” but that “though the squatter
and the crested bronzewing are superior eating, the
common bronzewing is the most coveted of the
forest pigeons, just as the wonga, which is inferior
to the brush bronzewing, is the most prized of the
scrub pigeons.” Some critics are in such a tre-
mendous hurry to criticise that they don’t give
themselves time to read. One of the titbits of the
scrub is the purple-breast, a magnificent bird about
21b. in weight, and often so fat in midwinter that
it is difficult to pluck it without tearing it to
pieces. The blacks take the young from the nests
and feast upon them with great relish.
“Wart”: Re the white mutton-bird men-
tioned by “Ornis” (B. 5/7/’l7). Capt. Ilolyman
brought one to Tassy from the Straits islands this
season. It was stuffed and mounted by a local ex-
pert and exhibited in Launceston —a beautiful, pure
white, without the slightest sign of yellow. Ten
years ago there was an albino white swan on the
Great Lake (Tas.). It was a perfect snow-white,
with the coral-red of its bill showing out in bril-
liant contrast. It mingled freely with the rest of
the flock, which seemed in no way to resent their
unusual relation. Of course the inevitable hog
with a gun arrived and secured a “specimen.”
Almost all colored creatures seem to breed an occa-
sional albino, but this is the first case I’ve known in
the black-swan family.
“Snell”: After the axeman’s competition
at Bluepeter Moffat entertained the party in the bar
parlor with a short dissertation on worms. The
biggest worm he had ever met was in the hills near
Mot-well. .It was a terrific worm. Gippsland worms
are notorious for their long. measure, but this was
the most elongated of all Gippsland earth worms.
He started to dig the thing out to satisfy his curio-
sity, but got weary after uncovering lift Then
Reid thought it was his turn. He was a Gippslander
too, and ventured the opinion that he had seen a
onger worm than Moffat’s. It was near Walhalla,
20 miles further up the line. This worm was wrapped
three times round a gum butt 6ft. in diameter, and
extent° ne Vfu gr ° Und to an unknown
n ° dded ln serious corroboration,
lhats right, he said. “It’ll be the same worm.”
“11. Ed.”: Kendall, in his nature poem,
“Bell-Birds,” paints the bell-miner in much too
vivid shades. ’There is no blue, golden or purple in
his coloring. He is in reality a somewhat dowdy
little chap, yellowish-green in plumage, with a red
spot or patch behind the eye. The poet’s bird is
often confused with the crested bell-bird, a verv
different species, whose note more closely approxi-
mates to the sound of an ordinary bell. The eter-
nal “tink, tink” of the bell-miner, on the other
hand, recalls the sound of a distant bullock- or sheep-
bell, or the clang of a small hammer striking an
anvil. Worth noting that where the bell-miner is
there also is water, usually a sassafras-shaded stream
flowing through some secluded gully or gorge.
* * * *
“Pick” : Who said that the water-rat was
a scarce animal? He is rare only in the sense that
bis timidity when the hunter is abroad keeps him
out of sight. But the fishers of the ’Bidgee and
trouters along the affluents of the Snowy soon learn
that there are plenty of him when they stow away
their catches. Whether you swing your fish in the
houghs of a tree, bury them under the sand, or
tether them under the water, in seven cases out of
10, when you return with the basket, the rats will
have left nothing but bones. And though a dozen or
more might be cleaning up the plates when you
appear, their long lithe bodies will dart from the
bank at any height into the water below with never
a splash, and scarcely a ripple.
TOO CONSIDERATE.
PARSON : “Coolum, why don’t you go to the
tear?”
COOLUM : “Baal me go tonga war, leave my
missus do all work.”
HIGHLY DESIRABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The boarder in the bar-room rose,
A pale gaunt man who lodged witli Hann
“I bear,” he said, “the worst of woes
And suffer torments no one knows
For do my best I never can
Have sleep like any other man.
“I have insomnia,” said he.
“At times it drives me mad outright.
Why to’or I do, where’er I be,
It’s just the same —no sleep for me.
You won’t believe for three years quite
I haven’t slept two hours a night.”
Boss-coeky Billson softly swore,
And turning from his chestnut cob,
“What’s that?” he questioned from the door
“You say that you don’t sleep no more
Than two hours? I pay thirty bob.
Now, mister, do you want a job?”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


y ach box of State Express Cigarettes
exemplifies tbe pride of tbe expert
in evolving a Cigarette worthy of tbe
big'best in tbe land.
Eacb new smoker, as tbe delights of
tbis superb cigarette are revealed to
bim, becomes an immediate convert to
its pleasures.
srfire (ftpijsss
CIGARETTES
are ** something different.”
“Tbat’s tbe reason.”
No* 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
lO for 6d.
Obtainable of all g'ood-class Tobacconists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
8
5?
VS
*
'O
S*
V
<$
ST
*
r
I s®J
A
5
u
V.
Jk
\kflj
%
■A
Ik
£
>«J
J SPmcA
/
t/flr


HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, CROUP AND COLDS.
T 1
HOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
: I
‘XS'fe
3
Y\
&
ill/////.
Cl
im
SB
r
m
aMi
B
Am'mSi
“An Excellent
Preparation.”
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2 6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n.s.w.; Wedding ton,
(
I
EVE.
[For The Bulletin.]
1 do not doubt me of ye Catechism'- lore,
That out of good there cometh forth ye evil
lienee, if God made thee, as thou dost implore,
lie must have got ye pattern from ye Devil:
N.s.w. YE SNAKE.-
There is talk of a revival of Rostand'.
“L’Aiglon” at Melbourne Royal, with Katk
lene Macdonell as Napoleon Junior. Tin-
play that gave Tittell Brune her first bin
ad. should be more historically interestin'
to Australia than when first produced hen'
It will come as a timely reminder that Ger-
many didn’t always have the whip band
over France, and its atmosphere will be
more congenial to latter-day sentiment than
the eternal “Royal Divorce.”
“A.”: Freddie Shipman should know-
enough about Java not to think hopefully of
trading the quiet songs-at-the-piano stuff
of which Hilda Felstead is an exponent.
Joseph Blascheck and Alyce Austin tried
it on the Dutch and had to close down and
flit to other parts. Noise and legs for Van
Yava!
“Yarra Ben”: Recently at Maryborough
(Yic.) the locals, mainly directed by the
Women’s Patriotic League, gave themselves
a dance which they described as “a hard-
times ball.” The belle who took the first
prize was got up realistically as Mother
Eve. That is to say, she got into the skin
of the part; but there being no property fig-
leaves handy, and the winter season having
shrivelled the real thing to dust the resource-
ful miss attired herself from head to feet
in rhubarb-tops.
“T. 0.1.”: Edward Gladstone, husband of
Mrs. Gladstone, who died recently at the
Northcote Homes (Vie.), was known as the
Horatio of the Victorian stage in the ’so’s
and ’GO’s: he played the part to every Ham-
let that appeared at the old Royal in Bourke-
street. He was always reliable but never
anything more. The Argus once said: “At
last Mr. Gladstone has had a character that
suited him” —this was the retired pawn-
broker in Douglas Jerrold’s “Retired from
Business.” Mrs. Gladstone was always
hampered by maternal duties: many and
many a time she handed the baby to some
friend standing in the wings while she went
on.
“Theorbo”: A dainty Tango, played be-
tween the acts of “Grumpy,” at Melbourne
Royal, compelled the admiration of even the
worst chatterers. It was composed by a
very young girl, Miss Carroll, a pupil at the
Presentation Convent, Elsternwick. She is
the daughter of the well-known Stannis
Leslie Carroll, assistant front manager of
the Royal. As Stannis Leslie lie has been
familiar in many operas, especially as Pri-
vate Willis in “lolanthe.”
“Harrison O.”: A moss-grown stage device
is for incidents dreamed or remembered by
one of the characters to be brought before
the house with the aid of a conveniently
transparent wall. The bloke who is dream-
ing or remembering either remains silent or
moves about the darkened stage barking bis
emotion and shins. In “Seven Days’ Leaie
the device is even more foolishly employed.
It is afternoon in a country vicarage and the
military hero is telling of an experience m a
German hospital. The lights go out. and
while he talks the incident itself is panto-
mimed on the other side of the room s back
wall, being seen as through a gauze daikl}.
When the yarn is finished the hospital van-
ishes like a' beer left on the bar-counter, and
somebody turns up the gas. A more unneces-
sary plunge into tlieatricalism was nete
perpetrated. The idea, of course,, has b
done to death on the films, but if it is to
dragged into the theatre why not cany it
its logical conclusion by letting the hero, i
evening-dress, speak the story of the P . •
while the incidents are enacted in nuino
show on the stage? Tricks like the one com-
plained of emphasise the hopelessness ° 1
position in wdiicli the drama that ,
almost wholly upon incident has been pia
by the screen fakirs. ,
“Snell” : Was Beatrice, of “Much Ado,
really witty? It would make an excelien
subject for discussion by the * lIelbo ?
Shakspearean Society, assuming that
are two or three members with the tern ,
to deny it, an assumption which the wn P
ing humbleness of the society J n dealing ,
its god does not justify, I admit. It Be
was so very witty the fact is not app
to a modern audience. At the-Mel
production of William's " n l lost . £ t ] ie
comedy” Beatrice gets her laughs f .
stage, not from the auditorium. L- ... *
brevity is not the soul of the wit r .
Beatrice. Don Pedro provides a
istic sample: “‘Nay,’ said L be ~
tongues.’ ‘That I believe,’ said she,
swore a thing to me on Monday mg . a
he foreswore on Tuesday morning; , „
double tongue; there’s two jjj s
There’s hand-made humor— Pedro j t
cue, “the tongues”; Beatrice ® t 0
laboriously, and producing two ton s ue
prove her wit.
“Silas”: Recent talk of the bollow n c f„ g u
and all it signifies in stage plays z’ecai e
incident ar Melbourne Majesty’s when -
O’Neil was doing “Camille.” The -g*
act had been reached, and the ha . _
horrid cough had become very disti
indeed. The excitement of the appro .
climax had seized upon the house, an e
there was a brief delay while the D .
the Camellias clawed her chest. ,
from the gallery the voice of a c °aro_
garian, who had lost all patience: .
truth, why don't someone give tha po
a corf-drop?” ■ g
At Sydney Journalists’ Institute Innc eou
Cyril Maude naively expressed his suiP
that the art of the playwrignt vr>
taught in the Australian universities,
instanced “Romance” as one ot tne
striking results of the drama-writing j e
in certain American unis. This P‘ a y> . g
memorable here by Madge Fabians
was written by a young student immed
after taking his course in box-office ethi
America.
Business, Robbery, etc
“G. Arden Hill” : A quarter of a century
ago it was the usual thing for us kiddies to
garner the domestic coal supply from lumps
that fell from the waggons on to the colliery
line. If we couldn’t till our sugar-bags in
this way we clambered on to the trucks and
rolled off from 5cwt. to a ton, according to
requirements, and gathered it up at leisure.
We were never molested. In those days none
of the colliery employees purchased coal.
Anyone could pick up a lump and take it
home. It is different to-day. Three people
were fined £5 each for stealing coal from
Thirroul railway-yard recently, -and a small
boy with a sugar-bag walking on a colliery
line to-day runs a risk of being run in as a
suspect. Colliery workers now have to pay
for their coal —either Bs. a load (about
15cwt.) or 6d. per w r eek and carry home as
much as requii'ed. But vigilance and fear
of the law notwithstanding, there arestiltmany
“thrifty” people living convenient to the col-
liery sidings and the wharves who manage
to keep the kettle simmering on the hob
without paying a penny for fuel. There is
never much coal in the heap, but it is never
bare.
* * * *
“Eloc”: I’m going to close up this expen-
sive-cow discussion. The late baronet W. J.
Clarke once paid 1600 guineas for a cow
sold in Alelbourne, and at the 1916 sales
held in Alelbourne two heifer calves were
sold for 350 guineas each. They were bred
at Bolinda Vale (A’ic.). If I got on to im-
ported stuff I could go into four figures for
scores; the above lots were home-grown.
“Pills”: I bad a notice in my window,
“Boy Wanted.” This morning a man drifted
out of the Belle bar opposite, gazed curi-
ously at the card, then swayed into the
shop. “Ju really wanter boy?” he said. I
said I did. “Orrigbt,” said the man, and
went out. About 20 minutes later there
arose an outcry in the street, and presently
in came the man dragging a fighting, claw-
ing, vociferating kid whom he had captured
somehow. “Got yeh one!” he said, triumph-
antly.
* * * *
“Jimmar”: Recently a very alert free-
lance was scouting on the third floor, and,
seeing a stack of (say) Nippon soft goods,
asked tlie department manager how much he
wanted for the lot. “Eight and six a dozen to
clear; there’s 150 pieces.” “Gimme a
sample,” said the scout. Taking the fragment
lie went down to the ground-floor, w T here he
met the firm’s buyer. “I have a bargain for
you to look at to-day, Air. Blank.” said the
inspired brute. “It’s a splendid Nippon.
There’s the sample—beautiful shades, fast
dyes, 150 pieces and only nine and sixpence
ha’penny a dozen to clear.” Blank critically
examined the sample, hummed, and finally
offered to take it if the vendor knocked off
the ha’penny. Free-lance expressed the flat-
tering opinion that Air. Blank was a hard
man to deal with, but as times were hard,
too, he would let it go at the even money.
* * * *
AVhen Lieut.-Colonel Collins blew into
Port Phillip in 1808 to found a settlement
he put a couple of oak casks down in the
sand at his camp near Sorrento to collect
water. Four months of Sorrento was enough
for Collins, and he moved over to the Der-
wTent, but left the casks behind. The other
day some people down there dug them up
and found them still hanging together.
* * * *
“B.O.”: Lady barbers are getting as com-
mon as strikes, but Tarcoola (S.A.) has a
lady butcher. She handles the goods and
drives her own cart, and does the slaughter-
ing, too, at a pinch.
“Liles” Why can’t Australia do it too?
Until the war began there had new* been a
shell manufactured in Canada. To-day it
is turning them out at the late ot . ,
a half millions a week. And bear m mind
that Canada’s population is seven and a
half millions only and is so widely scatteied
that it is recognised as useless to attempt to
trace deserters. Australia has done alrnos
as well as Canada with men; but when it
comes to munitions the comparison is odious
to all Australian patriots. Blink it as as we
may r , there is something lacking m our make-
up. Whatever the missing quality may be,
the want of it keeps unlucky individuals
and nations drudging at odd jobs for ever.
What is Australia’s future to be without it !
# * * *
“De Oriel”: Three more barbers. The
hairdresser of Ouyen (Vic.) also builds
houses, sings comic songs at local concerts,
teaches the banjo, and if you are still
unsatisfied will oblige you with an electric
massage. Now take your hat off. The Nati-
muk (Vic.) barber is a lady, who is using
the razor while her brother is in a trench
somewhere. (You can put it on again now.)
A strange barber w r as in Sheffield (Tas.) a
while back. He got the butter for his crumb
by taking photos and painting theatrical
scenery. One day, leaving his shop and the
contents and a man half shaved, he went for
a stroll and has never been seen since.
“Scientificus”: “C.F.E.” (B. 9/S/T7)
makes a break when he calls sulphate of
ammonia “an acid fertiliser.” Ammonia
itself is quite the reverse, and the sulphate,
being made of exactly r -balanced parts of
ammonia and sulphuric acid, shows not the
slightest trace of acidity. “C.F.E.’s”
growth of sorrel is not due to auy acidity
of the fertiliser, but to the nitrogen con-
tained in the ammonia; and the reason why
he finds lime useful is that the lime drives
all the ammonia out of the soil, and thus
forms sulphate of lime.
* * # *
A kindly Fitzroy (Vic.) councillor lately
presided over the annual meeting of a local
kindergarten. In acknowledging the customary
dryhash vote of thanks, the chairman said
he w’ould at all times be pleased to render
the youngsters any service he could —“pro-
fessionally or otherwise.” Whereupon all the
grown-ups present smiled wanly and shiv-
ered. Air. Chairman’s line of business is
undertaking.
* * # *
“H.E.R.”: Re draper dodges to make
women buy (B. 19/7/’l7). Here’s a com-
mon one, mostly used by big houses with
plenty of window space. A new line of
hats comes in. The firm intends to sell
them at 12s. 6d. a piece, that price showing
100 per cent, over everything. They give the
things a whole window to themselves —and
mark them at 255. 6d. each. A few go at
that figure (a section of the public is green
enough for anything) ; but the real purpose
is to drum it into the envious gazers that
the proper selling price of that hat is 255. 6d.
Along comes sale time, and the lids are
marked down to 12s. 6d. The greedy bar-
gain-hunters rush home and say to mother:
“Look at my hat —isn’t it great? Only
twelve and six! And fancy! A week ago
I saw the very same hat at twenty-five and
six!” The dear girls take all the ragman’s
“sacrifices” seriously.
* * * *
“G.V.W.”: These days when an employer
appeals to a Maoriland Alilitary Board
for the exemption of a “valuable man” the
Board requires the value to be stated in
£ s. d., and often gets some surprising infor-
mation. The latest startler came from a
landholder of 40,000 acres. He told the
Board that the man he wished to be relieved
of military service was worth 10 ordinary
men, as he kept the squattage free of rabbits.
Asked what wage he paid this phenomenon
the struggling landholder replied £BO per
year! Then the Board called out the guard.
* * * *
“Musketoon”: For economv in war-time
you can’t beat Gundagai (N.S.W.). The
aldermen, who are trustees of the town com-
mon, recently bought a bull, which is to be
allowed to wander on the common, where, as
one of the rude fathers of the hamlet said,
“it will be a public convenience!”
* * * «
“5.0. H.”: The bat’s most furious and un-
compromising foe in Westralia is one
V illiam Johnson. Bill got a dray, tw-o
horses and . prospector’s equipment and
started out in search of an Eldorado in
that barren wilderness stretching back from
Nullagine to the border. After fossicking for
a few months. Bill struck a chain of caves
in the Byro Ranges. Here he found a black,
metallic looking stuff, which he reckoned
to b< e molybdenite, telluride or wolfram.
Bill s first nights at the caves were full of
pleasant dreams. He saw a vision of poppet
legs and huge milling houses, while he him-
self was the bearer of titles, such as “Eldo-
rado Johnson” and “the Nor’-west Million-
aire. The next day the happy prospector
broke some samples of the precious stuff and
started out for Nullagine, 150 miles dis-
Thence he dispatched the specimens
to the Government Assayer at ’Perth, got a
fresh load of tucker and started back to
open up the find. Four weeks’ work of
digging saw a good heap 0 f the stuff, and
then Bill went back to Nullagine for the
report from the analyst, which he got after
weeks of anxious waiting. It read: “The
samples sent to me were taken from a bodv
of decomposed bat dung, ‘perhaps hundreds
ot years old. It in large quantities it mav
be of some value as an agricultural manure.”
Bill now works on a cocky farm, where he
spends his off time seeking his stinking
(adjective) enemy. s
* * •
WHEN BEAUTY IS BALD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A Melbourne barber with a large practice among
ladies insists that “women are losing their hair”
almost as early, as easily and as often as men. The
ravages of the anti-hair germ are- “more easily
covered up in women than in men, but partial
baldness is so common among even young women
as to suggest that the dropping of hair is a race
characteristic.” The time is coming, he thinks,
when women will be as indifferent to baldness as
men are.
I’ve sung of Honor’s golden hair
And Hero’s auburn tresses,
Of Bella’s black abundance, where
The sun throws his caresses;
I’ve sung of curl, and coil, and braid ;
On meshes I’ve dilated,
Until at last I’m sore afraid
There’s nothing re the hair of maid
That I have left unstated.
‘Twill much relieve the constant strain
Of rhyming to extol her
AVhen on the roof of Sophie’s brain
Appears a bright cupola.
The poet’s verse will freshly run,
Effects will come much faster,
If he may tell the darling one
Her skull is glowing like the sun
And smooth as alabaster.
'New stimulus the singer nerves,
When Beauty, scorning switches,
Adds to her many swelling curves
A baldness that bewitches.
AVe’ve sung too many wigs, I swear,
And now the poet mocks myths,
For Juliet in her head of air
Outshines the moon, and everywhere
Love really laughs at locksmiths.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
“Bill Bowyang” (Canaan) : Up this way
we are now allowed to purchase a couple of
bottles of Japanese lager-beer once a week.
It’s not a patch on Australian lager, but
Nippon is a pushing chap and has found a
big market for his liquid refreshment in
India, Egypt, Soudan and other places where
the German fluid was the only brand procur-
able before the war.
AN EQUITABLE IMPOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The first one with conviction penned:
“This conflict in seven weeks will end.”
Another, later in the war,
Gate Germany just one month more.
Since then I’ve read predictions free
They dribble in unceasingly.
All wrong-. And still the critics say
hen it will finish to the day.
Hughes should get cash in mighty sacks
From his proposed War Prophets Tax.
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


m
t.
%
t
m
-
V
NsJS
*-
’A
>
*
1&SS83&
', -
&&&.
mm®*™
Various types of Mine Locomotives are manufactured
the General Electric Company, and just the correct type of
Locomotive can be secured for any specified set of haulage
conditions.
The rugged, durable character of G.E. MINE LOCOMOTIVES
is evidenced by the fact that they endure under the severe
operating conditions of mine service for many years.
For full information on this subject communicate with
ignßiMjßiiaafiama
WENTWORTH Af SYDNEY, CP OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
... .
*
i
*
Ifi
♦
mt.
Q
m
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.)t The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.I,
Ltd.» corner Edwunl and Charlotte Street*
PERTH <%V.A.Ix Chas. Atkins & Co <W.A.> Ltd.. Hay Street
ADELAIDE (SJl.)i Lobchaun £ Johnstone. 100 Carrie Street.
KEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical £ Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington M Olleer
TASMANIA: Liod»ay Tullock A Co.. Ltd.. Launcestoni MesSro Oll.cr
r and Oliver. MocOuarte Street. Hobart.
13-TON INSIDE FRAME
LOCOMOTIVE.


iliiliiS'leifeillllM
usSaHttl
X. Saunders’ Afternoon Dessert Knives and Forks,
silver-plated, Xylonite or Pearl Handles, £3.
Others, £2/10/-, £3/10/-
pure
A. Saunders - Cake Forks, pure silver-plate
highly burnished, 12/6.
Other designs, 15/6.
; A. Saunders’ Jam Spoons, pure silver-plated, daintily
engraved, in silk-lined case, 10/6.
Butter and Jam, 10/6.
Send for
lfustrated
Book,
Free.
.. (Ct Canteen, containing 4-dozen each Table
A. Saunders Oak outlet j on H fiame Carvers; finest bnet-
sa -as SE«« s 'S,rv”i"r, w«- «*«
Forks, Table, Dessert and Tea Spoons, kb, 1.6/10/ , /
■' Hi:
I
j,MW
S;;:!:«lnit:,^'\.:? ! v
yr
A. Saunders’ Presentation Foundation Trowel, pure '
richly-engraved blade, carved handles, 12 inches long, £2/10/-
■*m- *
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—lt’s Posted Free.
Jeweller,
805-15 George Street
/Opp. Railway\
V —Station *,
.Sydney
All
ORDERS
POST
FREE.
\ Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tours,
mire silver-plated, richly embossed, in silk-lined
case, 12/(j, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Salad Spoons and Server, pure
silver-plated, plain design, in silk-lined case,
21/-
m
mm
It
msaOi
A. Saunders’ Fish Servers, pure silver-plated, engraved blades,
embossed nvetal handles, in silk-lined ease, 20/•
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £4,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Sunburn—lnsect Bites —Chafed Skin.
In any of these cases something to ease the soreness and
irritation is wanted promptly, and it is so soothing to apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
An exce’lent healing antiseptic preparation, useful at any time for
cuts, burns, scratches, and skin ailments generally.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester England.
BOOKS AT THE BIG BOOK STORE.
No Matter What Book You Want I’ve Got It.
ROOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated
with over 50 engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/0 posted. Merrie England, Sd. How
Get Rich. 1/- posted. I)e Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Donnelly’s
Boxing, new enlarged edition. 10 engravings, 1/3. How to Dance, 1/-
Xiow to Wrestle, 1/3. Moll Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, 1/2
Thurston’s Card Trick's. 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each
Horse. 1/-. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-
Bkll’-s
to
ART OF
posted,
posted,
posted.
Educating tiie
date Comic Reciter, 1/3 posted. Ilow to Strengthen the Memory, 1/1.
Standard Elocutionist, latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uniierse, lOd.,
AND ALL THE RATIONAL I’RESS REPRINTS (send for list). JOYS OF UIFE, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket Writing Explained. 1/6.
Mechanics’ Workshop Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2 Adven-
tures OF a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks and Games. 1/3. Fortune-Telling by
Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamihlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales.
1/3. Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. 13. Beauty’s Secrets, post
free, l/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s
Science of Life, 12/6. Australian Miner’s Guide ) simple tests for minerals).
3/9. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price
1/-, posted 1/3. Ilow to Become Quick at Figures. 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 4/- posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s
Freemasonry. 4/3 posted. Mysteries of Paris. 1/6. History of the Rod
(Flagellations and the Flagellants), scarce, 12/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Nor Guilty (Blatchford), lOd. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d. and
1/6 God and My Neighbor, 9d. Britain for the British, 9d. Ilow to Read
Faces 1/6 How to Train for all Sports. 1/3. Diseases of Horses. 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photography Sei.f-taugiit, 1/3. How to
M\kf Sweets J\ms and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins, 1/3 posted.
Hot-sf Painting A Papering, 1/3. Prof. Fowler’s Hi man Science. 12/6. Aus-
tin Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6. SEND A TRIAL ORDER TO-DAY.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
riates. 36 Cliromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human Nature as
,it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thousand questions that occur to
the minds of young and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting their
physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning
marriage, which makes it a very superior guide to the action of men and women
both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright futuie,
and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the
information embraced in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Complete. unabridged, cloth-covered
SHll'i INCS 11S great Wolk - lt will be Posted to ANY address for TfcN
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this Advt.
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sei*t Anywhere for* the AsKing.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANI
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY. ANY BOOK
ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. _
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 67 & 69 MarKet St. Sydney (only)*


Atmihtinriil*.
Harry Kichiird* I'Doti Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McTNTOSIL
-pi VO 1.l rHEA T U E, SYI) N E Y
MOTHER GOOSE, J. C. Mack's Panto of Genuine Fun.
FAVORITE FOLLIES, led bv Miss VERA PEARCE.
M A BELLE MORGAN, Australia’s Principal Boy.
TALLEUR ANDREWS, Operatic Star.
NELUSC'O and HURLEY, Smart Entertainers.
ALVIN and WILLIAMS, Cute Comedy Couple.
KELLY and DRAKE, Smart Comedy Tit Bits.
-piVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ALL ST AH VAU DEVTLLE.
CAMILLE TRIO, LILY AN AND BOGGS. JOE
REED. CREOLE FASHION PLATE, HARRY
KOXRURY. THE GLADIOS, RUTH RUDD.
REYNOLDS & WHITE, EDNA MAY FOSTER.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Cli l T KRI (> N T H EA T RE. SY DNEY
Direction .T, C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
.1. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., have great pleasure in
announcing the Famous English Character Actor, Air.
CYRIL MAUDE, in his International Triumph,
GRUMPY.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales at Callose’s.
UEItMA.IESTY ’ S~ > Y D N E Y
' 1 Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TAVO NIGHTS of THE GIRL UN THE TAXI.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEAIBER 8.
,T. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD. will produce
YOU’RE f N LOVE.
Plana at Paling's, Day Sales at Callose's.
pAL A C E TIIEA T R E, SYI)N E A .
LOOK WHO’S HE IML
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
with
AX ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
Prices as usual.
T KI.\N<iI.K I*J,AYS AT
* Til 10 I.VCRDM,
PITT STREET, SVDNEV.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30 : Overture
at 8 p.m. Mok Plan at Paling's.
Prices : 6(3. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Vou haven’t seen Sydney until you've visited tlie
UNION PI CTV R K TIIEA T H K S
Tn GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYIIIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
in" select programs of ihe world’s best dims.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.rn.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATEU .J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
LIE It MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive, for SIX NIGHTS
ONLY, the Popular Favorite,
THIS CINEMA ST AK.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
11 EAT R E RO Y A 1,, MkIJIOI RNB.
Direction .1. C. WILLTAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 8.
.T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATHLENE MACDONELL
in
HUBERT lIENRY DAVIES’ CELEBRATED PLAY,
OUTCAST.
KING’S THEATRE. MEI.IS<)IJ R N E.
Solo Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 8.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
Shakespeare’s Sublime Tragedy,
JULIUS C'iBSAR.
Popular Prices.
pRINCKSS’S THEATRE. .M El.liOU RNK.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, .Tun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE,
STCVHN DAYS’ LEAVE.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
|_| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
DE LUXE. ROURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 0 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 'll.
OLYMPIA.
Everv Evening, and Matinees Saturday at
2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
VIOLA DANA in
GOD’S LAW AND MAN’S.
MATHESON LANG IX
THU WARE CASE.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
IVI
V.IKSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ROBERT WARWICK
in the well-known Detective Plav,
THE ARGYLE CASE,
and
WILLIAM DESMOND
in
THE PAWS OF THE BEAR.
Matinees at 2.30. Evenings at 8.
|Y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick, of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN. VITAGRAPH, PATHE.
WORLD, I’OX and SELZNTCK.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 21st June, 1917.
Tenders for Pumping Plant and Equip-
ment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo island, Sydney.
riIENDERS will be received, subject to the
1 conditions of tendering, for the supply
and delivery of Pumping Station Plant and
Equipment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard. Cockatoo Island, Sydney, N.S.W.,
until 12 noon on Wednesday, 10th October,
1917.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette,
obtainable at any Post Office, or at the Office
of the Director of Navy' Contracts, Navy
Office, Lonsdale Street. Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
I.egal Notice.
riV > FLORENCE ALEXANDER and
JL AM ELIA (or EMILIA ) ALEXANDER,
daughters of WILLIAM ALEXANDER, and
supposed to have left England for Australia
nine or ten years ago as officers of the Salva-
tion Army.
PURSUANT to the directions of the
Honorable Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G.. Chief
Justice of New Zealand, under section 25 of
the Public Trust Office Amendment Act 11)15
you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned on or before the Ist day of
NOVEMBER 11)17 vour claim or claims to
the estate of CHARLES ALEXANDER,
late of Petone, Wellington, Steward, de-
ceased, who died on the 12th February, 1909,
intestate, failing which such estate will be
distributed among the persons entitled there-
to disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 21st day of
August. 1917.
.T. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
ISusiness Notices.
K
Price
2'9
Po^
Paid
DARBY AUTO
SUPPLIES
Co.PCij Ltd
Elizabeth
STREET
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned, to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, llandwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
CAPILLARINE
'?
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
The ideal preparation for growing those
short, stubby moustaches affected by the
military is undoubtedly Capillarine. Hun-
dreds have proved its unfailing merit. Send
for a -Tar to-day.
PRICE 10 6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
. X*2 r- . ~?i'\o<. >.
'P^A
m
«* ;.
rsf«
••■o'
; %*>
i&m
-.?<
SB.
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron falls Barron Gorge
the wonderful ntruerlarici
Sunshine , Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A .glorious
season of soft sunshine
and scenic .splendour
A Booklet telling all about .1
x is yours for the asking
V /v// in ffitj coupon -
Aorne
AMresi
V
N:
T ffio Drr-ecfor- of
Intelligence & Tourist —
Brisbane, OUEENSLANI>
r
m
IM :
a
m
The Only Way
to Clean Mirrors
YOU cannot yet mirrors really free
of smears and specks except with
Bon Ami.
First, rub the cake with a wet cloth to
obtain a creamy white lather.
Cover the glass with the lather.
Let the lather dry on the glass.
Wipe it off with a dry cloth. When
the lather comes off, it brings ail the
dirt with it. Being removed in a dry
state, no smears or streaks are left on
the glass.
You do not know how beautiful and
clear your mirrors can be made until
you have seen them after cleaning with
Bon Ami.
Bon Ami is also for windows, for
polished metals, for kitchenware—for
everything that shines.
At your Grocer’s.
o For a " ,he
Finer Kinds of
Polishing & Cleaning
vnr Wear* j
Lossard
U COFZ^SFTS
JJiqyLace In Fron t
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army aud Savy men.
I'sed since l.Vit; CURES Writefor Bo >k
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
Wolseu
Pure Wool Underwear J
Wolsey Underwear is a safe investment —and one that ensures
safety.
Wolsey is safe, because it is pure wool —because it never shrinks,
and is absolutely dependable.
Wolsey ensures safety —it guards the body against the vagaries of
the weather —ensures victory against its treacheries, its chills and
ills.
Wolsey is British —made by British workers in British factories,
under a British directorate. The underwear for patriotic
Australian men and women.
Guaranteed unshrinkable. Made nut only for men and
women, but children too. Look for the Wolsey trade-mark
on every garment. Owing to the enormous demands for
underwear for our soldiers and sailors, delay in the supply
of Wolsey is sometimes unavoidable —in such cases we ask
the indulgence of our friends.
TH
OL St
The Wolsey Underwear Company, Leicester.
12
BOYPnoor
10
4
8
U
We publish a Special WATCH
CATALOGUE. Write for a
Free Copy.
Stewart Dawson s Famous
“Boyproof” Watch.
For Schoolboys, Campers, Boundary-
riders, Horsemen, Teamsters, and
every man or hoy who needs a Watch
to stand plenty of rough and tumble
in all sorts of conditions. Has extra-
strong, double-back case, and will give
good, honest service for many a year.
PRICE
Post Free.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
is an excellent shop-window for Country
Residents who desire to avail themselves of
our splendid values in Rings, Jewellery and
Silver Plate. We send it post free.
STEWART
DAWSONS,
412 George St., Sydney.


Throat *s
K 5
oO* *
>'?:
m
m
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
If You Are
Run Down.
Builds up Health and Strength.
If you are run down from overwork, anxiety, illness, or
if your appetite and digestion are impaired and y ur
nervous system in need of a tonic, no treatment will give
such all-round good results as a course of Angier’s
Emulsion. It promotes appetite, soothes and strengthens
the organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up health and strength. Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-
five years ; it is a standard remedy of proved value.
Send name and address, postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Missing Friends.
FRANK GRAHAM^
INFORMATION is required as to the
whereabouts of FRANK GRAHAM, to
merly of Ambleside, Westmorland, w
emigrated to Australia about 28 years ag •
The last letter received from him by
mother was written from Brisbane, ana
then stated he was about to go up co
try in charge of cattle. He has not sm
been heard of. If he wishes to beneht un
his Mother’s Will he must send in a claim
us before the 6th March, 1918. Anyone vt
can give any information is requested
communicate with GEORGE GATE!
SON, Solicitors, Ambleside, Westmorland,
England.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/* PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. —New Strike Weekly.
New I.W.W. maxim: Half a loaf (on
wages) is better than a full loaf with no
bread.
The Lord Meagher of Sydney is willing
to do his best for peace by turning Fuller’s
other cheek to the striker.
FAME.
“Billy 'Ughes! Cam! Betcher wotcher like
I'm as well known round at Finnigan's
pub as wot 'e is in the 'ole of Orstralia!”
The Australian wharf-lumpers who refused
to load Australian flour in the belief that
they would thereby reduce the cost of living
are doing the, surest thing to increase it.
There is five years’ supply of wheat in Aus-
tralia, so it is obviously not flour that we
can’t spare. But we are short of plenty 01
other things; and as we can’t export gold
to pay for them, and as we are not borrow-
ing money where they come from, the only
way we can pay for them is by exporting
things which we have and which the pro-
ducers of these other things want. _ ine
Melbourne lumpers have been holding up
shipments of flour to Java and other Asia
ports; which means that it is more difficult
for us to get the things which Java and
other ports have to sell us; wherefore up
goes the price of rice, sago, tapioca, tea and
coffee.
A large amount of Parliamentary time, is
devoted to contradictory statements which
leave things exactly where they were. Two
o r three weeks
ago Frank Anstey
told the House of
Reps, that W. L.
Baillieu was an in-
strument for the in-
troduction of Ger-
manic business to
Australia. Also he
specifically men-
tioned that Baillieu
was opposed to put-
ting certain enemy
shares on the mar-
ket. Last week
Baillieu told the Vic.
Leg. Council that
every word of An-
stey’s statement was
“absolutely false,
baseless and untrue.”
And there the mat-
ter rests. Anstey
swears black, Bail-
lieu swears white,
and neither of them
is put upon oath.
Parliamentary privi-
lege is a ridiculously
easy flouter of the
law of libel. Anstey
calls the other fel-
low a disloyal rogue
in a matter of grave
public concern. Then
Baillieu calls Anstey
a double-dyed liar,
which ought also to
be a matter of grave
public concern. But
because they are
both legislators their
statements cannot be
tested in public like
Brown’s allegation
that Jones stole two-
pence from a blind man’s hat. A Court of
Parliamentary libel would fill a long-felt
want.
“Victimisation” is really all that is left
to talk about now 7 in connection with the
N. S. Wales strikes. Nobody but the rail-
way and tramway men had any grievance;
and what they went out for they know now
they can’t get. They would go back to-mor-
row on the old terms if they could all go
back, and if all the others in all the other
unions which have struck in sympathy could
go back, too. It boils down, then, to this:
What does this “victimisation” really amount
to? That the men whom the Government
has taken on during the strike will be kept
on if they can do their work must be taken
for granted. But those men were doing
something else before the strike; and their
jobs are available. There were no unem-
ployed before the strike. The difficulty was
not to find jobs but to find men enough to
do them. So, at the worst, victimisation
means only a reshuffling. What the Govern-
ment could undertake without receding an
inch is to use all its agencies to put every-
body into a job. It is bound to do that,
anyway; for it is just as much a national
loss to have a man idle because he can’t,
unaided, find the work that in Australia is
always waiting to be done as it is to have
him "idle because he has had a row with his
boss.
This solidarity of labor and brotherhood
of the workers is beautiful, but In one
d..y, soon after the N. S. Wales strike
started, 35 loads of cauliflowers were humped
to the Melbourne wharves by the growers,
and dragged back again, to be fed to cows.
There was nothing else to do with them.
A Trades Hall Council delegate laughed
cheerfully: “This’ll bring down the price of
caulies all right!” It did, by Is. or 2s. per
dozen. But it raised them by ss. or more
to the Sydney worker. It also lowered the
wages of the cauli-grower—also a worker —
to almost vanishing point.
“This is not a pleasant job w r e are now
on,” says a Billjim in Palestine. “We are
riding through the country firing crops and
destroying grain which would otherwise find
its way to Constantinople and Berlin. As
part of the same campaign we have been
tearing up a railway line which had been
used for the transport of foodstuffs fi 01
this fertile country.” There are th
of anti-Conscriptionists among the misguide
farmers of this country. The antFCon
scriptionist says that a man shouldn t be
compelled to fight an enemy abroad. -Lae
enemv should always be allowed to land
Irsif In the light of the Palestine experi-
ence, what does the farmer think 0
now? In plain words, would he rather
the Bedouin’s and the Turk’s crops were
destroyed or his own ?
“The Doocer”: This is the unfairest part
of the whole business so far as we are con-
cerned. Each of our transports carries
a non-combatant O.C. troops and a non-
combatant adjutant. They are more-or-less
military people—pretty often politicians
BACKING BILL'S BILL.
We cannot take the word of the present rulers of
Germany as a guarantee that anything will endure
unless it is explicitly supported by conclusive evidence
of the will and purpose of the German people.
—President Wilson.
THE KAISER: “Ach, Wilson is getting posi-
tively rude! He refuses to take this
gentleman's endorsement to our scrap
of paper!"
and men with a political pull who want a
comfortable military job at good pay. They
are officially on active service and thereby
entitled to all the pension rights of the fight-
ing soldier; but the officers and crews of
the vessels that carry them are not entitled
to a bean if anything goes -wrong, nor are
their widows.
Because of deficient energy or honesty the
Vic. Government has neglected—in fact, re-
fused —to tap its large coal-reserves at Won-
thaggi for the benefit of the general public.
The supply has been confined to the rail-
ways. Now, owing to the strike in N. S.
Wales, any Victorian owning more than five
tons of coal lias to declare his holdings,
and, if the pinch grows tighter, suffer him-
self to be parted from his supplies. Peacock-
ery has seldom displayed reasonable fore-
sight in the conduct of its job ; and the new
edict has given a new 7 light on the capacity
of Alexander for letting things slide.
The new electoral rolls of Victoria simply
yell to Premier Peacock to quit his down-
tools policy and get busy on a Redistribution
of Seats Bill. Though adult suffrage is the law
the vote of one adult in some places is worth
as much as the votes of seven adults in other
places. Boroondara has 38,645 electors,
.Jika 29.897. and St. Ivilda 29,386. while
Allandale 5729, Grenville 5416, and
Ovens 5942. Yet every electorate returns
one member and one only. If this favor-
ing of country electorates were resulting in
an increase of country population it might
be almost worth while shutting one’s eyes
to it; but actually since the last rolls were
compiled the metropolitan voters increased
by 47,888, while the country rolls are
heavier by only 3517. The fact is that in
theory the country elector has frequently as
much representation as seven metropolitan
electors, but in practice he disfranchises him-
self and gives the city another representa-
tive. Some of these days he will make out
a good case for a law laying it down that
the candidate shall be, bona fide , a resident
of the district he stands for.
Following upon the appointment of Jack
Cann, one of the three oldest members of
the N. S. Wales Parliamentary Labor partv
and Minister for Works in the last Labor
Ministry, as a Railway Commissioner ' the
Vic. Railway Union petitioned for’ the
appointment of its own representative as a
Commissioner vice McClelland, deceased
This might have looked quite a good scheme
to secure the smooth working of the Depart
ment if. unfortunately, it hadn’t happened
that within three months of Cain’s
appointment the N.S.W. railways and tram-
ways were plunged into the biggest strike in
the history of the service.
Oh, the modesty of these Win-the-War
candidates! The other day Bob Purnell a
carrier by trade and one of the most ordi-
nary little blokes that ever owned a lorry
ran for the empty Geelong seat in the Leg’
Ass. in the “National” interest, and this was
handed out to the local residents in a news-
paper advt-: —
Do you sing the National Anthem, and stand up
when it is sung, and sing God Save Our Splendid
Men ? Then vote for Mr. Purnell! It does not
nfatter what you call yourselves, Labor or Liberal.
Do you wish to end the war and seek industrial
peace? Then vote for Purnell. He will bring the
war to a speedy end.
Purnell was elected, and Geelong is now
looking to its little carrier to exert his autho-
rity and put a stop to Armageddon without
delay.
Two new members of the S. Aus. Assem-
bly have got busy quickly. Hamilton, put up
to move the Address-in-reply, is the new Lib-
eral member for East Torrens, but in former
days was a Labor member of the Vic. Assem-
bly, and he has not forgotten the ways of
politics. Another newcomer is Edwards", who
helps the veteran Kirkpatrick and the youth-
ful Price to keep the Labor benches warm.
Denny, the only other remaining Laborite, is
away at the war. Unpleasant questions are
Edwards's specialty—especially unpleasant
questions about the use and cost of Minis-
ters’ motor-cars. Every other Parliament in
Australia could do with an Edwards just
now; for the misuse of motor-cars and other
services by politicians has reached the pro-
portions of a scandal.
Clarence Goode, just out of the S.A. Gov-
ernment, lately made a statement about
Premier Peake’s intention to take a stiddy
job as chairman of the new River Murray
Commission. It got into the papers, and
Peake angrily denied it. As soon as Parlia-
ment met, Goode asked Peake if the denial
meant that he was not going on the Commis-
sion. Peake again repudiated the chairman-
ship, Goode again pressed the question as to
plain membership, and the incident dropped
with Peake’s candid: “I am not prepared at
the present time to say what my action in
that direction may be.”
One of these days the country will come
to regard the man -who shirks matrimony as
no less a bad citizen than the man who
shirks the other firing-line.
A DOMESTIC RESPONSIBILITY.
OBSERVER : “I say, old chap, we're in a deuce
of a fix."
PILOT : “Yes —I promised the wife to bring
you home to tea."
OUR BATTLE GROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Government cannot afford to neglect this
problem of an empty Northern Territory much
longer.”- —Daily paper.
Not where the guns roar death in tortured Fiance,
Not in rose-colored ways of tale and song
Our splendid heritage of new romance
Beckons us ever forward. White and long,
The year's full summer looks upon the land;
And a wide wealth of green and growing things
Calls to the stalwart heart and ready hand—
“ Here shall your children’s children reign as
kings.”
The call is as a trumpet’s down the ways;
Yet goes unheeded as the wind that blows
Across the city roofs. Adventure stays
Pent in the brick-built, dull suburban rows
And fears to launch its dream-ships boldly forth
Into the splendid places of the sun,
Where, in the gleaming vastness of the North,
A thousand triumphs wait but to be won.
The war that shakes the base of this grey world
Booms, flamed with ruin, to its bitter end ;
The shot-torn flags o’er broken lands are furled,
The people rest the large earth-wound to mend.
But we have other care. For true blood spilled
To guard our coasts and keep our homes from
shame,
An age-long monument is ours to build
In deeds of holy labor to its name.
Lands, reel from battle pale and worn and spent.
A large thanksgiving fills their temple domes.
But we must rear upon our continent
Our everlasting arch of human homes.
Their war is ending; ours is but begun.
The south world trembles to our marching feet
Till all the glowing banners of the sun
Shall wave above a victory complete.
Have we not seen? Have we not heard and known?
And hearing, seeing, knowing, shall we fear
The splendid heritage that is our own
In the far summer of our golden year?
For others we have wrought. Shall we not feel
The larger thrill of wider fields to win?
110, Statesmen! With the key of close-laid steel
Open the gate and let our valor in!
N'.S.W
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


PALING’S PIANOS
FOR ALL HOMES—FOR ALL CLIMATES.
I he
Chappell
Bijou Grand
¥A
Come in to-day. If you cannot
conveniently call, please write for
particulars and prices. Write
to-night. Paling’s Catalogues are
posted free to any address.
You can Rely upon Paling’s Pianos.
We repeat, with increasing emphasis,
that you can absolutely rely upon any
Piano or Player Piano we sell.
All our Pianos and Player Pianos are
famous for their sound and honest con-
struction as well as for their delightfully
sweet tone and durability and perfect
musical Qualities.
No instrument is displayed in our
Show Rooms without first being care-
fully selected and examined by experts.
We guarantee every piano or other musical
instrument we sell to give satisfaction. What
better guarantee could you Have ?
You can buy one on Easy Time Payment, and
if you Have an old piano we will take it as part
payment at its utmost Honest valuation. Write
us a note witH particulars.
We are sole agents for Chappell, Sames, Estey
and Vidor Pianos, also Behning, Laffargue,
Estey and Victor Player Pianos.
Sanies Piano Model 94.
We are Sole Agents for the famous
ESTEY ORGANS, renowned for
their unsurpassable Purity of Tone
and Great Durability.
Send for “The Estey Organ
Booklet”—it is free.
W. H. PALING <a CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE.
d
Q
<*>
SI
□
[MS
(PREPARED)
&
gp^ergers
ItrUCTU^ 1
RoofP^ 1 ®
ARGf iys«»t f >
PREPARED
06
l !"> Ber
& SojsJiS.
Made in England
since 1760.
A Practical Paint
for the Practical Painter.
Painters who realise what
a great amount of valuable
time is lost in MIXING
colors will find in “8.P.”
(Prepared) a perfect paint havingexcel-
lent covering capacity. An exclusive
process of combining the Zinc with
the Lead gives to Berger’s Paint
several qualities of exceptional merit.
53 beautiful shades in all—every one of
them clean and clear in color; elastic
and durable; and guaranteed to cover,
wear and look better than any other
paint, hand-mixed or nlachine-made.
Ask your agent for price of “8.P.” and
compare it with that of the Lead and
Oil, not omitting to add to the latter
the cost of labor, tinting, etc.
Try it on your next job and see what
you can save!
Ask for color cards. Agents everywhere.
LEWIS BERGER & SONS (AUS). LTD.
16-18 YOUNG STREET SYDNEY.
FOUNDED IN LONDON, A.D. 1760.
JttlC
Pervious enamel pm nT
' or n,,r«Me rtO r^
Berger's %
Majonel
.h&stMl
Made in Australia
1917.
MELBOURNE:
H. J. Oorder Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE :
W. & T. Rhod33 Ltd
BRISBANE:
Jas. CampJjdll & Sons Ltd.
PERTH, W.A.':
Cao. Wills & Co. Ltd.
AUCKLAND:
Phlllipp3 & Im.iay Ltd.
WELLINGTON :
Robert Martin Ltd.


As the object of the war is now the over-
throw of military autocracies, democracies
cannot temporise with Kaisers or Hinden-
burgs, suggests that wise and royal spirit
King George TV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
west Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
Man—the Britisher especially
—is a clean animal. He de-
lights in his bath, his spruce
appearance, and his every
morning shave. Millions oi
his race have adopted the
NO STROPPINO NO H
i HONINO
for keeping up that tradition
of spruceness for which he is
famed. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Put Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, E g-
MARK
TRADE
WQRtO ovia
KNOWN THfc
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to M
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc-
-118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
VICTOTY
A[?]URED
WITH
MICK SIMMONS
GLOVES
The strike that has knocked Sydney sub-
urban racing endways looked more than likely to
hamstring the Rosehill meeting listed tor this mo.,th,
and as the Rosehill Guineas is an event of some conse-
quence the time was ripe last week to And out what
was going to be done about it. The result was an
arrangement to hold the meeting at Randwiek, and,
incidentally, increase the stake-money. There is thus
to be racing on the A.J.C. course on the two ensu-
ing Saturdays and on four days beginning at the end
of the month. This ought to be enough to go on
with. The totalisator had been timed to open
for business at Tattersall’s meeting on Saturday, but
as everything' is more or less up in the air nowadays
the machine will not be ready for action. This news
has been received in Israel without consternation.
The season lias arrived when the punter’s
fancy lightly turns to thoughts of getting in at 100
to 2, or something, for tae Spring handicaps are
coming within sight, and there is money for the bold
and the lucky—also woe and tribulation for the buld
and the unlucky. Meanwhile the daily training notes
are available to assist the confusion of judgment, and
once more this page issues a warning to the specula-
tive young man to beware. Broadly speaking, the
reported performances on training tracks are less
valuable than a tram-fare, and it is worth while
remembering that many races are left on the track,
and that time after time the animal which has
attracted very little attention to itself overtakes the
bacon at the right place. 'The principal factors in
determining the merit of particular gallops are
always shrouded in mystery. The public reads that
Scooter ran a mile in “46,” and next day hears that
Rusher traversed the same distance in “44J” in front
of Dilatory Maid, who finished in “46J.” How many
people know what it all signifies? Details of weight
arc missing. The method of riding is not particu-
larised. The job the blacksmith did is left to the
imagination. Yet ther'e are thousands of deluded
citizens who play up their cash on the strength of
impressions derived from absorbing these masses of
misinformation. And because they generally have
their heads in a bag they miss what they thought
they were looking for.
* * * *
The Maoriland horses training at Rand-
wick have been kept moving lately. This is particu-
larly the case with the Derby co.lt Biplane. One
explanation, of course, is that these horses have. had
little racing for some time; another is that trainers
from over yonder work with lighter shoes than most
Australians. In this they are probably right.
Binlane, The Toff and "another ran a mile the other
morning in 425, and questions arose whether this
was a record for the track. It isn’t. Several times
lsec. better has been recorded. Biplane carried as
little as could be put on board. The Toff had a very
fair weight up. Biplane, by reason of his track
work, will in all probability start favorite for the
Derby. He will have over 2st. more to carry and
half a mile further to go than he had the other
morning. A very open-looking event so far is this
year’s Derby.
The four-figure line is not often reached
for untried horses these times, but it happened last
week at Sydney, when a 2-vear-old colt by Martian-
Celano was bought at auction by Randwiek trainer
P. McGrath, who said 1000 guineas. The youngster
is a half-brother to Briseis, by Achilles, a champion
at unregistered meetings, who may possibly be taken
over to the higher - class by virtue of the A.J.C.’s
recent whitewashing operations. The colt was owned
by the late M. Mulcahy.
A feature of the Williamstown meeting
was Raheny’s win in the Steeplechase—remarkable
in many ways. The little Tasmanian —he is probably
the smallest jumper in training—is 14 years old and
this was his 33rd victory. He was steered by AY. G.
McLean, whose riding since he turned pro. a week or
two ago has approached champion form. Horse and
rider received an ovation from the public. True,
most of them were on the “good thing.”
* * * *
Perhaps it was a lucky thing for Old
Mungindi and Caibye that the Adelaide horse Murran-
gong was not put to steeplechasing a few. months ago.
He might have got into either of the Vic. events at
a light weight and have proved a hard nut to crack.
Murrangong, after disappointing his owner on the
flat, was tried over the hurdles and found, to. be not
much good. But the gelding developed his jumping
muscles meanwhile. He had his first trial over
fences only three weeks ago, when he blundered early
in the race and was pulled up. A week later he
won the Adelaide G. N. Steeplechase from end to end,
jumping remarkably well. It may have been that
the novice had no ’chasers of class to beat, but he
couldn’t do more than win with ridiculous ease.
Adelaide was amazed at the improvement in the
horse’s form as compared with what he had been
doing over hurdles a while ago.
Mareulfus is said to have been backed for
Melbourne Cup, but nobody can. show good cause.
The handsome son of Positano is one of the early
“aged” animals, and Bst. 71b. looks a full weight
for him. Two years ago he would probably have won
with 7st. 41b. up if he hadn’t been one of the unlucky
three that fell in the race. The same week Mareulfus
carried Bst. 121 b. to the fore in the V.R.C. Handicap,
since when he has done nothing to speak of. There
is a belief of long standing that he might prove a
great horse on his day if a very strong boy drove
him along from the start; but he will probably be
up against some greater ones on Melbourne Cup day.
Tbe unprecedented conditions for tbis
year’s Melbourne Cup handicap will be all against
the Derby winners unless they have been weighted
not higher than 6st. 101 b. The chances are that the
A.J.C. Derby winner, anyhow, will not have a show
in the Cup, but the stake in the classic race is too
rich for anv good three-year-old to be scared off by
the threat 'of a 101 b. penalty for winning. The
V.R.C. Derby is a different proposition, so tbe pro-
bability of one horse winning both Derbies is stronger
than usual. In the past 11 years four colts have won
the double.
• * * *
Blue Bolt finished away at tbe stern again
last week —this time in the Memsie Stakes. The
most interesting point about watching this prad
that he was handicapped for the Spring as likely to
be the best thi ee-year-old of his year, and a usually
good judge paid ‘a hatful for him with the same
expectation. Perhaps he may like a short trip bet e .
Or perhaps he should have been called Blue Duck.
* * *
Adelaide Racing Club had as splendid
weather for its G. N. Steeple as the Hurdles Day was
vile, and the totalisator takings for the two after-
noons reached £33,000, far better .than last year,
though nowhere near the days before the war.
rangong s unexpected Steeple win for A. P. Bowman
meant a dividend of £l6 45., with 255. for South-
land, a bad second. The Dequettville Stakes was
dead-heated by Tcwnacre (Linacre —Drury) and
Placidia (Cooitrim —Dovedale), both young ladies
bought lately in N. S. Wales. Townacre is owned
bv Dr. Benson, chairman of the Port Adelaide Racing
Club, who has just leit on his way to the Front.
Not much fancied, she paid £l4 55., while the other
dead-heater, who was, returned four guineas.^
The inquiry into the death of jockey L. \.
Bragg at Canterbury Park (Sydney) produced
nothing more than an official remark that the acci-
dent was unfortunate; but the opinions of promi-
nent witnesses pointed a moral which suburban racing
clubs will have to consider. A few of those
opinions:— ;
M. Mitchell (A.J.C. stipendiary steward): “If he
had been asked he would have reduced the number of
horses in the race to about 18, taking into considera-
tion that they were two-year-olds.”
A. Hyde (A.J.C. stipendiary steward): “About 17
or 18 horses would be a safe number to start at
Canterbury.”
F. J. Marsden (trainer) : “Twenty-five horses were
too many to run in that class of race on a small
course such as Canterbury. Seventeen or 18 was a
fair number.”
P. Nolan (trainer) : “He thought 25 horses were
too many to start.”
In the face of such evidence it should certainly be
somebody's business to see that somebody else gets
busy. Limited fields do not keep nags on their
feet, but in crowded fields of green horses and appren-
tice riders the risk of their leaving the perpendicular
is vastly multiplied.
“Mujik” : There was a sensational happen-
ing the other day up near Wingham (N.S.W.), where
a citizen, rounding-up cattle on a pony,, detected a
seven-vear-old never-vet-varded bull steering towards
him, tail up and head down. The citizen and pony
evacuated their position and bolted for the timber,
where the rider treed himself and the animals came
into collision. Now this is what I call real
all parties having a chance —the bull of dangling a
citizen over its countenance and the pony of getting
away. With a slight variation the venue could be
changed with great advantage to Sydney racecourses.
Tf in every suburban hurdle-race, for instance, an
annoved bull in good condition were slipped half a
furlong behind the field, much improvement could be
locked for in the subsequent occurrences. If there
were no material reasons for being anxious to win
there would at least be a mighty solid argument in
favor of avoiding delay. Among the habitual specta-
tors this would be almost as popular as the appoint-
ment of an official whipper-in in the Flying Handi-
Cap ' .
One of the finest finishes seen on a pony
course for some time past was noticed at Victoria
Park (Sydney) on Saturday. Tressady Maid, Melton
Lad and Postelite were locked together over the last
hnl' furlong, and eventually Trcssadv Maid won by
a shoit head from Melton Lad, with Postelite a head
off third. This was the Maid’s last run with the
ponies, as owner Killian proposes transferring her to
the horses.
* * * *
When Creole McKinney won the Trotters’
Hundred at Richmond the other day it was ridden
by Mrs. Pearl Kelly, wife of a Williamjames in
France. Mrs. Kelly, a native of Gippsland, was born
with her foot in the stirrup, so to speak, and has
won about 20 races in W.A. When her husband
enlisted took charge of his nags, and has trained
and raced them since. At the trotting meeting
immediately preceding that at which Oreole McKinney
did the trick, a winner was ridden by David Yates,
aged 71, who i? training his son's horses while their
owner is in khaki.
* » * *
“Gee Up” : At the annual meeting of the
Geelong Racing Club the other day proceedings were
enlivened by a disgruntled committee-man who wanted
to see racing conducted on the home course once
more (it has long been in the possession of the
military authorities). If that were not possible he
suggested a pro rata return of subscriptions accord-
ing to the number of meetings held away from the
town. The members present were not sympathetic,
and after a change of chairman a large majority
carried a motion that the club carry on to the best
of its ability wherever it could get a course and
continue to give its profits to the patriotic funds
during the war. The committee proudly points to
the fact that last year £3125 was so distributed.
Jack Hilt and Jack Kearns operated on
one another at Svdrev Stadium on Saturday for a
couple of rounds. Hilt then started to operate on
Kearns. Forcing him back on the rones he made the
proceedings so violent that the upper strand gave
way, and the two Johns fell in a meaty heap among
some reporters. As soon as the premises had been
repaired a swing to the jaw was delivered by Hilt,
and to Kearns it sounded like the crack of doom.
He was still sleeping more or less soundly when
Arthur Scott moved the adjournment. There is talk
of bringing Hilt and Tommy Uren together, but
when the subject was last mentioned Tommy stipu-
lated for the welter scale and Hilt objected to
curtail himself.
* * * *
The Llew Kdwnrds-Herb McCoy turmoil
at Brisbane on Saturday was all over before it
started. Herbert’s experiences at the hands of the
Welshman had led him to expect disaster; and he
knew it w-as coming quickly when Wales moved in to
the attack with a whirlwind wallop and the cold,
business-like manners of an executioner. Edwards knew
what had to be done, and did it just when he wanted
to. McCoy, getting in the road of a tasty one,
collided with the mat in round two. Unfortunately
for him the gong sounded too soon, and he had to
turn up for a settlement in full the next round.
Two more somersaults settled it —in nice time for
Edwards to go to the pictures.
* * * *
Some of the Sydney coalies on strike were
seriously annoyed when a working gang of sailors
from a cruiser in port set to and coaled a transport
for them —incidentally collecting the respectable dif-
ference between their moderate naval pay and that
of a striker. After the urgent job had been done, a
boatload of about 25 young sailors, landing at Fort
Macquarie for shore leave, walked into a'V.aiting mob
of 50 or so strikers. The fun started at once, and
the strikers were doing pretty well at odds of 2 to 1
fill the two cutters which a naval pinnace had towed
to the steps behind the first boat spewed their
cargoes of Jacks on to. the jetty. there was a
whirling Jutland go, with the luckiest strikers go g
SISJ? SS*
them. * *
Adam Mather, a prominent N. S. Wales
cricketer of the early ’eightie,, passed into «Jot
field last week. Mather represented Australia against
Shrewsbury’s team and made top score in
State match betwen Ma and Vic. in 85. She tdy
afterwards an accident destroyed one of his eW and
that was the end of his big cricket. But he aiwaj
remained an ardent follower of the game For some
years before the end he was proprietor of a hotel at
Singleton. # *
“Mooro”: Back in the early ’7o’s Johnny
Mullagh, star performer of Lawrence’s abongina
cricket team, went all to pieces through high l ving
in Melbourne. The doctors told him that both lungs
were done and a panicked black cut away to his
native Wi/ mera. There his mate Buliocky, another
of Lawrence s band, took him in hand and the pair
camped together in a lonely mia-mia on the edge of
a swamp, in which Mullagh was given frequent duck-
ings every day and well wrapped up after each. The
remedy 6f Bullocky, M.D., was so thorough that
Mullagh made top score for Vic. against Lord Harns s
England XI eight seasons later, and it was not until
another dozen summers had passed that the lungs
finally gave out. Mullagh was found dead at Harrow
(Vie) in 1891. He had tracked to the old camp
to look for Bullocky, but that eminent physician had
gone and left no address. #
The recruiting-depots get some humorous
sporting offers. Last week Paddy Pigott offered
himself at Melbourne Town Hall, declaring that lie
was onlv 43. He dated his age from the year when
he rode his first Melbourne Cup winner. Little
Paddy was up on Haricot in 1874, and on Chester
in ’77. He went to scale at 6st. 71b. for Haricot,
and six years later he rode Lord Burghlev into third
place with only 7st. slb. He isn t a mountain of
flesh even now.
* * *
E, W. Carr had an afternoon among
Sydney Grammar School championships on Saturday
and won most of the programme —100yds., 220yds.,
440yds., 16lb. shot, broad jump, and second in
120yds. hurdles. Carr made a great splash at the
meeting last year, and will probably do things at
the “open” schools’ meeting at Sydney this week-
end. Carr, G. E. Hansel (killed at the Front) and
W. F. Cripps may be bracketed as the finest ath-
letes turned out by the schools of Sydney in recent
years.
* *
The headmasters of the best-known public
schools in Melbourne (which include Scotch, Xavier
and Wesley Colleges and Melbourne Grammar) have
taken a drastic step in cancelling the remaining
premiership football matches for this year and the
cricket competition, of which two more rounds re-
mained to be played. Parties of college youths
after “solemn warnings” persisted in shouting out
at one another and ill-naturedly barracking after the
games. Such unsportsmanlike proceedings constitut-
ing, in the masters’ view “regrettable incidents,”
an effectual stopper has been put on them by a
real anti-shouting resolution.
L. Wall (Balmain), who marred a season’s
play by being ordered off with S. Deane for “scrag-
ging” in the Kangaroo match at Sydney, is the
finest full-back in N. S. Wales Rugby League.
Against South Sydney, in the closing match of the
premiership, he charged the look of things by bam-
boozling most of the opposition and scoring a trv.
Wall is one of the few full-backs who successfully
use the left foot better than the right. With Bal-
main, at cricket, he has also done fine things.
In 1914-15 he headed the season with most wickets
(68, av. 10.98), the best efforts being 8 for 18
and 6 for 11 against Middle Harbor; and in 1915-16
his bag was 40 wickets (av. 13.97). He was about
to grasp the rare honor of rep. at cricket and foot-
ball when Kaiser Bill’s argument made everything
else as cheap as parsnips.
“Centre”: “G.N.’s” nomination of Stan
Wickham (B. 30/8/’ 17) as the finest Rugby kick
doesn’t give room for fair comparison. Wickham
played under the old Union system when the “charge”
and “spring” were used to baulk the kicker, and
Wickham’s superiority over other players was due to
a style of booting which lifted the ball quickly from
the ground. Wickham was certainly a great all-
rounder in the early ’9o’s; but, before those days,
H. P. Abbott, W. Appleby (one-time of M.L.) and
S. A. Spragg were champions, too. Later on there
was P. Carmichael (Q.), who, “doing” England
with the Wallabies in 1908-9 —Wickham, by the
way, was assistant-manager—showed that he had an
intelligent boot by scoring 52 out of the 56 goals
kicked on the tour. “Dallv” Messenger got the
limelight under other conditions in N. S. Wales
Rugby League. With the Maorilanders in England,
in 1907-8, he booted 56 goals ; in 1908-9, when cap-
tain of the Kangaroos in England, he kicked 66.
Messenger’s greatest efforts were in 1910, when he
scored 108 goals—24 of these against Queensland and
16 against M.L.
The Jap in Australia is no good yet at base-
ball. For the season’s wind-up the Association whirled
Nippon to Petersham (Sydney) diamond on Saturday
to tackle Petersham No. 2 (premiers for 1917 and
Summer premiers last year), and Young Australia
won in a ten-innings’ game by 27 runs to nine. It
might comfortably have ended the same way by
anything up to 99 to nil had Petes taken the game
seriously; as it was, when they livened up in the
last innings, they banged Nip.’s twirling for 20
minutes for a pile of 12 runs!
A cyclist who has been showing great
promise of late in Sydney is young H. H. Horder, a
son of George Horder. The youngster, who is still
in his early teens, rides with the Metropolitan club,
and in its mile handicaps on the track is rarely out
of a place in either heats or the final. He rides
with good judgment and seems to know just when
he should unwind his sprint. More will be heard
of this youngster and his wheel.
A Yankee has placed on the market what
is practically a mechanical accountant prepared to
produce an amazing lot of figures in connection with
a motor-car. It not only automatically records the
speed of the ear after the manner of a speedometer,
but it records trip and season mileages, the separate
mileage achieved by each of the four tyres on the
wheels and the two tyres on the spare wheels. After
that it puts in time keeping separate track of
the petrol and lubricating oil. All that is required
now is for someone to invent a mechanical chauffeur
guaranteed to keep the device in working order.
Whilst Lindrum and Gray are trying to
make a show of championship billiards in Sydney a
better exhibition of scoring is being given by the
younger Lindrum in Melbourne. Left-handed Walter
was set the easy task of making 18,000 to 11,000
points against E. J. Campbell, who somehow has the
title of Victorian champion. The two matches
started at the same time, and at the end of three
days Walter had knocked up 4500 (his sessional
points), whilst Campbell was making 952. Fred
Lindrum, in Sydney, had scored 3879, or about 1000
more than George Gray All the biggest breaks up
roo^ stood to Walter’s credit, his best being
502, unfinished, on the Wednesday night These
figures speak for themselves: it seems evident that
Grays supremacy as a red-hazard player has de-
parted from him, whilst he is admittedly inferior to
either Lindrum in other branches of the game.
Murk ah i It is possible that nn environ-
ment of dog with long, savage teeth mav have an
effect on the evolution of the hare and induce an’
nfWRTiT? W R Suepested b - v Ttie Bulletin
+ w /8/17) ’ may, instead of working
that way, endow the hare with double-jointed hind-
quarters In point of speed the hound b as el " the
best of it, and the hare which depends for escaping
whole on mere expedition has a might}- short lif P
It is the tricky dodger that worries the pursuer
most and beats them ; wherefore the animal that can
wait until the nightmare behind is just on the point
of grabbing him up, and Jhen dexterously go off at
right angles, possesses something as good' as a life
insurance policy. Fast dogs are seldom close work
ers. So a hare’s best move is to turn sharply back and
come around behind the dogs. By this‘ manoem ,
the dogs are practically pulled up, and I have seen
a hare gain up to 60 yards. Plumpton hares that
survive for any length of time all drop the hurri-
cane business for the slow, twisty- game, ami live to
run another day.
# * * #
“G.N.”: Remarks by “The Colonel” (B
30/8/’l7) concerning his experience of eels declining
to commit suicide on moonlight nights may apply
to the inhabitants of fresh-water lakes.' They
don’t to salt; at any rate, they don’t on
the N. S. Wales side of the Murray. If
ever the military party is over Sydney wav
let him take a trip to The Entrance, Tuggerah Lake's
and five minutes after he Las dropped a line he'll
agree with me. I have fished there many years past,
and long ago arrived at the conclusion that the
imitation sea-serpents prefer to sup by the light o'
the moon.
* * * *
“Trot”: “The Colonel” (B. 30/8/17) savs
that (1) the presence of eels in Lake Elingamite
and (2) the absence of a connection with the sea
proves that eels breed in fresh water. Eels do not
breed in fresh water, never have done so, and pro-
bably never will. It is no use presenting negative
statements in this bald way to disprove well-estab-
lished biologiical facts. If the unobservant person
who reasons by rule of thumb wants to get down to
bedrock let him produce from his lake either an eel
containing ova or some ova that will produce eel in
a hatchery. If there is a decent library anywhere
near his address he will find that there is no more
fascinating story in it than that of the life-history of
the fresh-water eel and the patient research by which
one of the great mysteries of reproduction was pene-
trated. To speak of there being no connection
between this lake and the sea is silly. If a local
inhabitant makes the journey is he confronted with
atmosphere or what? The only thing there is no
connection between is “The Colonel’s” allegations
and his conclusions.
“Bill Botvyang”: Someone recently wrote
in a Svdnev newspaper that the animals in the
Imoerial Camel Corns often travel 100 miles a day.
Don’t believe it. Althoneh they can carry a native
a long distance without halting, it is different when
they have Billiim on their back with all his kit
and" paraphernalia and their own rations beside. The
average weight is about 4201 b. I was one of a
patrol that started out from Mirsa Matrub, on the
nor’-west frontier of Egypt, and travelling fast from
daylight until dark we covered 30 miles and con-
sidered it mighty good work. Most of the animals
in the Camel Corps come from Egypt, Sudan and
India, and are not a patch on the Australian-bre'd
camel for speed or weight-carrying. Occasionally
one comes across an animal here which has done
something out of the ordinary, and a fine, sturdy
camel at Abassia is said to have covered 80 miles
in four hours. But the only weight carried was
the man on board, which makes a world of difference.
For fast travelling over desert country covered with
lofty sand dunes, and provided there’s water at the
end of the day’s journey, give me the horse every
time.
* * * *
“Wart”: Tiie Bulletin reckons Q. L.
Deloitte m”st be the Methuselah of Australian rowing.
George Collins, of Launceston (Tas.), must run him
very close. Last week, at the annual meeting of
the Tamar Rowing Club, Collins was elected presi-
dent for the 41st consecutive term. But his connec-
tion with half the club goes back even further than
that. In ’76 there were two rowing clubs in Laun-
ceston, the Tamar and the Cataract. George Collins
was president of the Tamars for longer than anyone
can say, the records having beeiy lost. In ’76 the
two clubs combined to build a little boat-house on
the rocks at the entrance to the Cataract Gorge.
“Xeimarx”: If “Fram” (B. 23/8/17)
splits his bullet into four pieces and then fires at a
point within a foot of the candle there will be enough
wind to extinguish the flame. The eoniurer’s trick
of extinguishing three candles and lighting three
others by pistol shot is done thus: the lighted
candles are placed a foot in front of three unlit ones,
each of which has a small piece of phosphorus on the
wick. The wind from the split bullet extinguishes
the burning front candles and causes the phosphorus
to ignite the wicks of those behind.
Age does not trouble the veterans these
times. E. M. Smith, lately Surveyor-General
of South Aus., has been removed from office
on account of having passed the supposed
age-limit of usefulness. But, after taking a
short holiday, he has just nailed up a brass
plate and started in private business.
Henry Lang, the Australian general sec.
of the Y.M.C.A., has lately been at the
Front with Billjim, sniffing the battle-
smoke, watching the shells go by and heal-
ing all kinds of approving noises made by
the fighting-man in praise of the “Triangle
service.


Some Day You’ll Get
a THrashing'.
Settle day you 11 be called upon to defend yourself.
Suppose, for instance, some bumptious fellow insulted you, what would be
your position?
quid you be able to fittingly avenge such an insult, or in trying to do
s ° ''nuid you run the lisle of getting a severe thrashing, owing to your
inability to defend yourself—to prove yourself a man?
Itm never know what the future holds iu store for you, so be prepared—-
barn the art of self-defence. Start TO-DAY—not next week, but NOW,
I Teach Boxing by Mail
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My boxing instructions are very thorough—
you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
;ft‘- the quick progress you will make under my
personal coaching.
My lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and an
cramful of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this adver-
tisement and post it to me, and 1 will send you by
return mail my interesting Booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which tells all about my
methods, terms, etc. Please send three penny stamp:
for postage.
L
%
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
"The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
675 BELMONT BUILDINCS, SYDNEY.
Try This Dry Cell j|
IF you need current to ring |
bells; to operate telephones 1
or signals; light lanterns or (
portable lights—if you need cur- ]
rent to run a gas engine or a I
tractor, a motor car or a motor boat I
you should try Columbia Batteries, i
Columbia
S Batteries
ate all-round utility batteries which
can be used for dither heavy or light
work. Columbia Batteries have higher
voltage and amperage than wet cells.
No liquid to spill; no glass jars to break*
Designed to meet local conditions*
They are durable and dependable—
protected by moisture-proof cartons.
p Packed to reach their
destination in first-class
condition.
% 5
wMiM
7 ignitor '
Wei
sj
*® f ECß«srs^ i ’
USA
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us:
National Carbon Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland
Reliable Dry Cells.
Especially Manufactured to withstand
AUSTRALIAN CLIMATIC CONDITIONS.
Long Life. Low Internal Resistance.
“R.S.C.” (Blue Label), for BELLS,
TELEPHONES, MEDICAL BATTERIES,
etc.
1J volts, size 2<in. x 6in. Price 2/*e a *
“RAMSAY” (Red Label), for IGNITION
and all other work requiring HEAVY
CURRENT and QUICK RECUPERATION.
1£ volts, size 2Jin, x Gin. Price 2/0 ea.
1 1 volts, size Bin. x Tin. Price 3/11 ea.
If your Dealer does not stock, send for
Pamphlet 8.30 to
Ramsay Sharp 8 Co. Ltd.
217 George Street, SYDNEY.
Indent and Trade quotations for the above, also
for “COLUMBIA” and “ HDT-SHOT ” Batteries
supnlied o" reouest.
7anks\
popi/iaA
THE ENEMV |
OF BRITISHERS'!
ENEMIES.
BENZJH!
HELL
BENZINE
" THE SPIRIT”
OF THE WAR.
>• •••,
HE
zwe
(oV' V
r
News of the Latest
Developments in
Motorcycle Construction
The
ofndim
1917 Catalog
Send a Postcard
for a Copy
I ET this new Indian publication show you to what perfection t e
Motorcycle has attained In its pages p.ctured and described
are the new Nineteen-Seventeen Indians-the wonderful new Lrght
Twin, a revolutionary Powerplus ““
more than ever the world s motorcycle masterpiece j j
U-aClrd
will do —ask for Catalogue D.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle 00. Pty-
Ltd 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Mil ledge Bros. Ltd., 156 Castlereagh
ADELAIDE : Eyes** A 6 Crowle Ltd.. 76-79 Plrle
rrkrane ■ Canada Cycle A Motor Agency
BRISBANE. • Lt^ an Adelai 3 e and Cr eek Streets.
LAUNCESTON : John King A Sons Ltd..
Charles Street
PERTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency,
U.., C4ro»+
PAJON
8421
I U
Jew
SUGAR flllEN *» C* L
l, -.wosbmu siitt,
SHtrrrcto
.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bali Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Boyrke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
&
V\Nv
5H f
®i
f«®iS®i
• w**!
rwk
<S"V
<^tlv'
'^Cm
■rr
sjtou *..<&**
■J
S? 5
V
\Xt
oxl-5
£
P9B»
NATIONAL
BENZINE
Even oil long, steep hill climbs you may be com-
pelled to “cut off” your power in order to
negotiate some ugly “elbow turn” in the road,
and it is then that the never-failing, instant
“pick-up” and unvarying, powerful “drive” of
National Benzine will carry you through. With
“National” there is always a plenteous reserve
of power in hand.
GET the “National” Spirit—it’s the cleanest,
most consistent and most powerful benzine you
can buy—and it gives More Miles to the Gallon
—ALWAYS.
Obtainable All Garages and Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO. Ltd 4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
TWF. RAXOR COESDCWW WHO)
TV*e LEFT WLU'
WATCH TK“ ACTIO/M
%
ess
SMITHO'
JUUUS
SLYDE-STROKE
THATS THE
the razos goes l; \ wfeN
Sil cjeVrr iiano p»u.t
< bhe
EVERMORE
TheEveimore
is not an ordin-
ary stropper.
Its unique SJyde
Stroke action
enables you to
sharpen any
ra3or or safety
rqgor-blade with
the skill of an ex-
perienced barber
See 75/"
IP UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO PARTRIDGE AGENCIES LTD
Box 1003 G.P.O. Sydney, or Box 14 Q.P.O. Auckland N-Z.
Inclusive oTadapters
lor the sharpening cf
any safety-rajorUdde
wrffe or doubl&edfed
(hi now cLaim fa d/mcnAtjimL rtZ


SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
'P HE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, Kingr Street, Sydney;
Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane; or
193 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind : they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed :
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS>
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pin,
Small Dote,
Small Price.
THE FAMOUS
WlflflCAS SWIMKD FW-CfCti DKW
K^RMAjfl
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders—4 cycle —medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working.
It will convince you ; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
TO MAKE
DELICIOUS JELLIES
USE ONLY
JELUME
PURE FRUIT JUICES USED
FOR ALL FLAVORS.
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO.,
WATERLOO, SYDNEY.
Agents.
BRISBANE: A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.
MELBOURNE: P. W. HEYMAN.
HOBART: AGENCIES LTD.
ADELAIDE: AGENCIES LTD.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
5
/C
/
70
(THREESOME)
COLLAPS
SNIRTS&PYJAMAS
hold the best card
at every round.
If a Collar, Shirt or
Pyjama does not
reach the highest
standard it never
leaves the Pelaco
workrooms.
The name “ Pelaco” never
appears on any garment that
cannot stand the HIGHEST
QUALITY test and guarantee
better service for FIT, STYLE
and WEAR.
MADE. IN AUSTRALIA.
£022
IP
*<»' jfAT- -
v
0
W;
[S
2fcA*
pmfl
SSS
1
sSSSi
E2M
Ru-ber-oid Roofing
Is Easy to Lay
The illustration above shows how it is applied. The only
tools required are a hammer and a knife. You can put it
on quickly and easily. You need no experience to make a
permanent, repair-proof, rot-proof, leak-proof roof with
Pronounced"RlT as In
RU-ber-010
ffOOFI Nc
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER
Special large-headed, zinc-faced
sherardized nails come in every
roll. These nails cannot rust or
loosen. They are much better than
tin caps and are easier to use.
A can of RU-BER-INE Cement, for
the laps, is also packed in every roll.
This cement is the same as the coat-
ing of |ill-BER-O|Q itself, and cannot
crack, run or decay.
Eight square feet of extra roofing
are included in every roll, to allow
for two-inch laps.
Tell us the size of your roof and
we will tell you exactly how much
Ru-ber-oiO you will need and what
it will cost you.
Come in and examine this roofing.
It costs more than low-grade roofing,
but wears longer and is cheaper
by the year. Many RU'BER'OIQ
roofs put on more than 20 years
ago are still watertight.
There is only one »U -BER-010-
The genuine has the “Ru-ber-oid
Man” (shown above) on every roll.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD, Brisbane.
KINGLOC LTD, Camperclown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO. LTD., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO, LTD, Adelaide.
E-lder, Smith &. Co., Limited,
General Merchants, Importers & Exporters.
Special Department for /Vleta/s and Ores.
Head Office: Adelaide. Branches throughout South Australia, and
at Broken Hill and Wentworth, N.S.W.
F ° rFIC E,: Queensland Building:, 84-88 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE
BRISBANE OFFICE: 334-338 QUEEN STREET.
f^^ TH AGE,NTSs ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED.
DON OFFICE: “Portland House,” 73 BASINGHALL STREET
E.C.
EOR fl 6s. 6d. you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week tqi-,a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 . George
Street, Sydney.
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1910..£1318 4 p.c.=£1062 £3OO £9,056
Dee., 1910.. 1377 4 „ „ 1050 200 £127 9,183
June, 1911.. 1471 4 „ „ 1050 300 121 9,304
Dec., 1911.. 1564 4 „ „ 1050 200 314 9,618
June, 1912.. 1496 4 „,, 1050 300 146 9,764
Dec., 1912.. 1543 4 ~ „ 1050 400 93 9,857
June, 1913.. 1312 4 ~ ~1050 200 62 9,919
Dec., 1913.. 1640 4 ~ „ 1050 450 140 10,059
June, 1914.. 1385 4 „ „ 1050 200 135 10,194
Dec., 1914.. 1670 4 ~ „ 1050 500 120 10,314
June, 1915.. 1378 4 ~ „ 1050 250 78 10,392
Dec., 1915.. 1786 4 ~ „ 1050 500 236 10.628
June, 1916.. 1547 4 „ „ 1050 250 247 10,875
Dec., 1916.. 1808 4 „ „ 1050 500 258 11,133
June, 1917.. 917 4 ~ „ 1050 11,000
A retrospective arbitration award is
responsible for that bump: the co. had to
pay £5lO back wages to its employees. To
meet these added labor expenses and the
increased cost of coal, the co. has decided
that there is nothing for it but to raise the
price of gas. Meantime the River Esk flows
obligingly on through the municipal electric
generating works without demanding higher
wages. This electric competition and the
debenture blister explain the poor little 4
p.c. return to shareholders. Go back 10
years:—•
June, ’O7. June, ’l6. June, ’l7.
Liabilities .. .. £40,016 £35,464 £33,496
Assets other than fixed
assets .. .. 16,163 14,317 13,422
Excess liabilities .. £23,853 £21,147 £20,074
So after having paid for renewals and re-
pairs and various minor extensions the co. is
£3770 better off. Meantime, gas manufac-
tured has increased only from 19,489,900
cub. feet to 24,259,800 cub. feet. Altogether,
the future is not brilliant.
* * * *
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1906.. £2171 6 p.c. = £1590 £5Bl £5,895
1907.. 3060 8 „ „ 2121 939 6,834
1908.. 3631 9 „ „ 2386 1245 8,079
1909.. 2712 8 „ „ 2121 591 8,670
1910.. 2923 8 „ „ 2121 802 9,472
1911.. 3743 9 „ „ 2386 1357 10,829
1912.. 4193 10 „ „ 2651 1542 12,371
1913 5496 15 „ „ 3977 1519 13,890
1914. 5131 10 „ „ 2651 2480 16,370
AVritten off, £5OO .. 15,870
1915.. 4746 10 p.c. = 2651 2095 17,965
1916.. 3691 10 „ „ 2651 1040 19,005
1917.. 4829 10 „ „ 2651 2178 21,183
Paid capital, £25.250; reserves, £21,183. So
the co. goes to Treasurer Bigjohn for per-
mission to capitalise £20,200 of reserves,
paying shares up from ss. to 9s. After that
shareholders will have the satisfaction of
knowing that if the co. takes the wrong
turning they can be called upon for only
another 31s. per share. But that liability
is not likely to keep them awake. The co.
is making steady progress; this illustrates
the growth of trust funds:—
1907 ..£1,563,191 I 1916 ..£3,617,393
1915 .. 3,382,095 | 1917 .. 3,908,382
Last year made records for the co., and the
directors felt that the world was so good
that they dropped £5OO into the manager’s
pocket for special services in connection
with the sale of the Cecil Plains Estate and
bonused the rest of the staff. Of course there
are flies still in the trustee co.’s butter, one
being heavier taxation and the other in-
creased office expenses, the latter incurred
chiefly in compiling elaborate income-tax
and other returns. Queensland Trustees
has had to instal a special department for
this purpose.
From the shareholders’ point of view the
financial position is quite comfortable:
£2150, and possibly something for taxation,
is all the co. owes, while it has £20.550 in
Government stock, £29,500 in freehold pre-
mises. and in advances and odds and ends
£2522. As for the future —well, the Govern-
ment Curator is in the field now ; but though
he may snap a few juicy morsels from
under the nose of this and the one competing
co., there is plenty of room for all. In fact,
the Government Trustee’s activities may
even do this co. good by helping to advertise
the uncertainties of the bad old friend-of-the-
family trustee habit.
* * * *
Aarons’s Exchange Hotel (Sydney) :
June,'l2. Dec.,’l6. June,’l7.
Assets apart from goodwill,
lease and furniture . . £1416 £5312 £5094
Liabilities .. .. 993 3010 2653
Surplus assets .. £423 £2302 £2441
From June, 1912. onwards the profits and
dividends have been as follows:
June, 1912 .. £1405 12* p.c. = £765
Dec., 1912 . . 1297 124 ~ „ 765
June, 1913 .. 1400 12| ~ ~ 765
Dec., 1913 . . 1375 124 „,, 765
June, 1914 .. 1113 124 765
Dec., 1914 . . 762 10* ~ „ 612
June, 1915 .. 747 10 ~ 612
Dec., 1915 . . 64 Nil
June, 1916 .. 943 10 p.c. = 612
Dec., 1916 .. 779 10 „ „ 612
June, 1917 .. 767 10 „,, 612
Those two tables give the co.’s history since
1912, when capital was written down ss. per
share. The co. started with £15,000 of its
£17,500 of paid capital represented by good-
will, which was merely the right to trade in
premises established by someone else. The
lease expired and was renewed; but during
the currency of the leases no effort was made
to extinguish the goodwill item. Wfcen
the time came to apply for a third renewal
and the directors discovered that to secure
it the co. would have to expend nearly £lO,OOO
on additions and improvements to the owners’
property, all the visible assets the co. pos-
sessed amounted to less than £3OOO. A new
broom or two were introduced to tidy up the
mess, and for a start some of the paid capi-
tal that was merely fluff was swept away. It
is now £12.250—in 35.000 10s. shares paid
to 7s. And though war and wowsers
are knocking holes in hotel profits, the
co. is able to put a little aside as a sort of
sinking fund. In five years it has accumu-
lated £2018; it is slow going, but the present
lease has still 13 years to run.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
n
V
fa
V/
/
I $
*
%
£ '
m/%
0.
»
/
d/j
1
ft*
3<*Sl
■vAS***
m
2$!N
*•. A
<. •'..<?>
,/ .jS
wp**
.-*>
***&
SS3J
ssgSfc?
•37^
'
y-'.-t
- : -V -
V
J
<.f,4 cVr ,'
#J
•-
X.
r ■
$4?
ViSjW
?&®££
'sd?V : f
35&!
*S®s
mm
.iiWewA'
as*-.
V t \ *
:6a
I W-*:£jFSC»3’»?'^ • .V= r -.J.^
lili
y-iVt
«KMi
sSfc<2
HP
a?*
,'#>*VAy„
Sgg?
3.U.
mi
'&4j3l£\
: mm
m
s,
■;.-■■■
■m
f M*
imm
'>,‘r
Si
■ : .r>‘
ass
ies
'sm.
m
>*■%»*
■*— V,
j?£
18
-'V'-AV
jaSas
565
o>
xo:*<i
f «*
«**i*
■-Sr'ts*
m
Ss3
gSßsrfTCrfiS
;<.y..
68K
.‘Vi.-X-
S«>e3
Wws
///j
r /i
5 /
s&
m*
■ ':■■ «H< jfflsSsE&SS
>* S&^^fjgaa
,vv-
■*■■**>,
■7'X&
mm
Sr*-£
&
w$
dm
#h
iSP £
mm'
r s*t/M
/ft
m
& f# •;■*•?" /
«3W
.- ' •' > ,<'
,y:
/////
y
:- Vi
f.Jf
'sofo'£
Jp.*.sfg&ty&jkj£
#
W/mmmffWfh
f/F/fIW
*•-:
//
7
- c.
»?
f /—)
O r^i
Cobra.
15he Boot Polish.
C*
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Gets the wireless
M essage through;
Faintly through the
Battle’s din,
So the singing
Spark comes in,
Bri ncrincr word to
o o
Soldiers gay :
“ Reinforcements
On the way.”
With Marconi’s
Quaint machine
“COBRA" work is
Quick and clean,


THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mparv Far Phono raany times as efficient
medr* car rnone and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard s Buildings, 387 (iEORQE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
Why Have Grey Hair?
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless
recipe will correct it.
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can he
avoided without resorting to hair dyes A
very old. home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few
nights with a small sponge and you will
soon have the pleasure of seeing the greyness
disappear. This recipe is perfectly harmless,
is neither sticky nor greasy, and has given
perfect satisfaction for many generations to
those in possession of the secret.— Advt. [4
fa
Acid'
Mouth
is due to fer-
menting: food
matter which
\ lodge- iii (he crevices
between the teeth. Thi-
becomes infested with
bacteria, weakens the
enamel, and opens the way
for decay to enter the soft
interior of -the teeth.
C
> McK&R -
THE OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER,
stands alone in its power to combat this evil
successfully. It acts scientifically; oxygen
is liberated when Calox is moistened, and
this powerful ingredient at once neutralises
the acid secretions.
It penetrates to evert tiny crevice of the
teeth, and is most effective in correcting dis-
colorations. At the same time it leaves the
whole mouth fragrant and refreshed.
Get a Tin Tree.
A big sample is yours for the
asking. Your name and ad-
dress with this ad. will bring
it along. Write to Calox
Dept., Geo, Wills and Co.
Ltd., 480 Collins street, Mel-
bourne, and slip in two penny
stamps to cover postage, and
a sample tin will be sent
immediately.
Calox is procurable from
ALL CHEMISTS AND
LEADING STOKES.
F. 6/9'’l7.
mm
’ THE OXYGEN
..TOOTH POWDER
!L_ (T«. 6 *r<—«)
WESSON &.
Used the
World Over
m
m
MOTOR
...CARS
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
I
li
&
JTi
Si
/
using a
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detaehable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write or call for particulars.
Eyes and Crowle Etd., Pirie St., Adel-
aide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0.,
Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co.
Pty., Elizabeth St., Melbourne; R. R.
Russaek, 377 a Elizabeth St., Sydney;
Philip Frankel & Co.. Edward St.,
Brisbane.
J" OIX up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out. ami the chances are that you will have
to stand practically tu arms till you are
past middle-age.
HIGH day, and holiday shoes, for wear on
extra-special occasions with the extra-
special gown, oughr, one feels, to have
something distinctive about them, some-
thing that lifts them above the shoes for every-
day wear and tear. It i- this distinctive, this
different look, that makes the charm of the most
elegant shoes in the Bostock range, the delightful
little black satin shoe here illustrated, for ex-
ample. One has only to glance at the picture to see
that here is something very smart and desirable.
Then think of it on, showing daintily, captivat-
ing].', beneath the flounced or scalloped hem of
the summer gown. Nothing could be more appro-
priate or more charming. And with all its
daintiness and piquancy, it is the most comfortable
anrl well-fitting of shoes, as indeed are all those
short-fronted styles, and will suit most women,
giving that ease", lightness and coolness which the
Australian climate requires.
Bostock So.
P 64 I 4
I
m
N o n c genuine
unless stampeil
“Bostock.”
Bostock shoos are unmistakable. The name is on
every pair, and they are sold at all leading- stores.
B
S
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under .sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 3, 1917.
Ist Prize, value £(ioO. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £21)0. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. C'. Loughton Shipley,
Black heath, X.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1917.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in The Bulletin
on Thursday, November 8, 1917. To any person forward-
ing stamped, addressed envelope, a list Of the results will be
posted. Tickets “may be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
from ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan*
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of Swan manufacture for a
generation.
'SWAIT
PENS
Sold by Stationers and .Jewellers Ever cohere
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 2/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 1 5/-
Iliustrateii Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holbom, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
St S WesS ) St sa ’s G E rge f t - ■ London
tTaa*. n , xV’ S - E - Associate House—Mabie
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago OUse^Mable -
Australian Bran, li: .1. A. BURKE. 5 Primrose Building
!!!llll.ll'lillllili 1 lll!lttiillminlliiiiimiimi ” ’
%
255 a. George Street, Sydney.
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
OtJ.Collis Browne’s
CWorodyw
T,m? Original and Only Genuine.
THE REST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthmct,
ami iit the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectual!.'
cuts short all attacks
of SP A SMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliati' e
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM,
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery>
0} all Chemists. Prices in England, l.s> *
Made «n England.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
-Yo notice {except of a hostilt character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
I. Johns : (1 ) It has been repeatedly ex-
plained. A mutual life office lias no shareholders.
Its capital consists exclusively of the premiums
paid by policy holders and the profits made by
investing that money. Policyholders do liu
theory) have a say as to what bonus shall be
struck. The actuary, who calculates what amount
should be in hand towards meeting claims, compares
that total with what actually is in hand: and the
diffeience between the two amounts is the so-called
profit, which is available for distribution. It
remains tor the policy-holders to reject or accept
the actuary's recommendation. (2) In effect, the
ambition of a mutual office is the ambition of a
few men, mostly officers, whose salaries grow with
the importance of the office....G. Humphrey: Gum-
leaf 2ft. Tin. long to hand. Thanks; that settles
the argument. .. .Perion: Received corpse of the
ancient Chew. Buried it at the old address....
t.M.R.W.: The process of manufacture isn’t clear.
. ...E.J.M.: Glad to hear from you; but matter sub-
mitted is no good. On the mainland the process
is almost as well known as the sewing-machine... .
•T. Todd: We’ll take your word for it that the
Roundtree you know isn't an Australian abo., blit
is of half-negro origin. Whatever he is he has
the pluck of two men Ynuie E.: Not sufficient
interest in that find.... Jean F.: Thanks; give him
our good wishes. . . .R.IJ. : Pretty feeble, as you
say... .F.M.: ‘‘Billy Green" bit too long; but it
is very well done. Condensul, would make a good
Biz. Robbery par.,...Win. X.: Don't think much
of him for offering that girl's letter for publica-
tion. ... Ivaipara : Welcome home, Crusoe; there have
been several gags floating around since you left us
197 years ago....Gron: Dear, dear, what a cheer-
ful young man you are!... .Clinker: Thanks; but
not good enough to take it second-hand. .. .Red
Bill: No use here... .0.G.: Complicated attempt to
get nowhere... .Tantalus: Better said too often
before. .. .M .E. 8.: Doesn't work.... Flaneur: Yarn
loses itself W.11.P.: Too heavy J.M.W.:
Graphic enough; but you merely get yofir man into
a mess and leave him there. .. .C.F.P.: “Orange
Harvest” is a little too stiff in the joints. Try
again. Good material. .. .C.M.D.: Moral verse of
tile wobble and bump order. ... B.F. : “Spotter” i>
a very tedious person.... lvewpea: You can’t rhyme
“town” and “around.” Thinkin’ Bloke: Says
nothing new and doesn’t convince H.P.: The
“mists” miss C.M.8.N.: “Bather” too slight
A.G.C.K.: Goes on wooden 1eg5..... -Joey: Not enough
in it... .R.H.G.: That’s the sort of stuff-to fire at
them and make them sorry:—
They forget those who are dead
And hinder the living being fed
v And weaken their position
By curtailing ammunition.
They weaken their own union
By making disunion
And make themselves ridiculous
By creating a useless fuss.
. ...A.S. : As distressing as the cramped writing;
and that’s saying a lot. People like you surely don’t
want their copy read.... Zeb: And yours fs nearly
as bad, with the blurred-type lines jambed together.
.... M.S.: None quite up... .P. W.: Not well enough
done, but a good idea. .. .S.L.: You seem to have
lost the touch. .. .E.C.: Wrecked on a bad rhyme
in the first stanza A.C.H.: What’s the use of
giving us that “Rule Britannia” mush? Brag can’t
enthuse us in a time of plain bash. .. .P.O’L.:
Doesn’t quite score 8.0. Y.: No use for distorted
prose masquerading as verse.... Uloola: Limps....
E.J.: No use. ...E.D.: Thin idea and \veakly, cor-
rect verse Petromaque: Its only merit is that
it finds half a dozen rhymes for “Kitty.” G. 11.:
Yarn has no thrill in it... . J.M.: Not our style....
U.S.: Bright enough, but we don’t care for it... .
N.E.Y.: Nothing in it.... Marmoset: When did von
ever see a girly-girly yarn like that in this paper :
... .W.E.8.: “Bill” is amusing, but not convincing.
.. . .8.L.H.: Fair verse; not thrilling.. . .V. 8.:
“Boys Together” not our style... .F.E.M.D.: Very
commonplace. .. .E.F.H.: Picturesque, but not enough
in it.... Young Australia: About as good as sonic
other arguments:—
Oh White Australia’s surely gone
If Conscription does pass.
For the poor man or the worker
Will have to live on grass.
When a poor man’s child is
Ten years old
He thinks it lovely to be born.
But in days to come lie soon will >ee
That he was made to mourn.
But why not this?—
Oh White Australia’s surely gone
If to Conscription we say nay,
For the pool man or the worker
Will have to live on hay.
When a poor man’s girl i>
Ten years old
She thinks it’s lovely to be born.
But in days to come she may see
That she was made to mourn.
.... A.W. It wriggles along with a violent bump
here and there, but amounts to nothing. .. .Kooka-
burra : Strike verse very poor. .. .Chocolate: Have
you just discovered there’s a war on ?. .. . Xym: Not
up Smailliwjc: The inky spider crawled hastily
over it and you called it “Youth.” It’s sloppy
enough to be recliristened “Dishwater.” L.S.R.:
No use. .. . A.L.8.: Substitute “hie” for the fre-
quently recurring “bee,” and it would look more
cheerful....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bara R.: One is old, and the other is p00r....
11. W.: Can't use it.... Ted H.: Yes but the applica-
tion isn't good. . . . lI.A-C. : That joke was made about
the first motor-car. Should be worth your while.. . .
G.K.: Too gory Ray M.: It’s a hard, wiry thing.
C.B.: Mother was made with an axe. So was
dad E.H.: Unsuitable Jack F.: All cinde—
nothing doing.
Now that Membrey, M.L.A., has decided
to abandon the .Tika Jika seat in the Vic.
Assembly, Liberalism has been dreaming
pleasant dreams. The first Liberal candi-
date to make a definite announcement is
Samuel Dennis, a Northcote town-councillor.
But there will be others, for official Liberal-
ism has still to be heard from, as well as the
Water Waggon, with its hopes banked on
preferential voting. Labor lias already
chosen its man.


He Knows It’s MEGGITT Time.
%
/
ft
r
rJ ,t i
%
w
■C. V*
»
'((
m
K
\
X/
%j/% 11 K "if
A
A
•S
s.®
c*
U
j>\N
6
(id
wi/t
I
£
$
k
L TO
* *
l
TTA
J
NJ
SSS
V
LOW
Messrs. BOARD and BOAG Praise Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal.
For WORKING BULLS and YOUNG CALVES.
Mr. W. G. BOARD, Rosewood
separated milk for feeding all my 3
meal boiled with 2Yz gal. of milk, a— —. „ o . . s „ amn
feeding qualities, and they notice the good results in my young stock this season. , , .
a. . cave• “T have been netting your meal through the Coastal Fanners’ Society of Newcastle, and my man speaks
wg«i s“isstass; ;r;a > *»«** >•«« ««»*«.••
How to Feed Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal.
COWS.—Leave your hay ration as it is and give 31b. Linseed Meal and 31b. of bran per da),
soaked or drv. ,
VO vi , o ..I, Linseed Meal lib chaff, lib. bran or pollard per day will feed, morning mash
only, birds Soften the ’chaff in boiling water, pouring.off surplus water after aHow
to stand for a few minutes ; add the Linseed Meal, which will absorb the remaining moisture, then mi
in the pollard or bran and make the whole a crumbly mash.
stick to it. Gradually increase to full ration as your horses become accustomed to the taste, at the same
time reducing your supply of chaff and corn.
CALVES. About ilb. per head per day. Dissolve Linseed in boiling water and add to skim
milk.
SHEEP. —2oz. per head, per dav, in specially nutted form. Can be spread on the ground with-
out waste. For Show Stock double the amount.
PIGS. — I .inseed Oil Meal and skim milk are an ideal food.
Your Storekeeper will explain why MEGGITT’S is Superior. Fu'ler particulars on application.
From all Stores, or full & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, nX
Melbourne; Wm. Adams oc wo,, rci m,
Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co.. Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty.
Ltd.,
or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E. N GL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apnl.v
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Uio. Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alina Wharf.) .
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
FOR MOVEMENTS
OF STEAMERS SEE
DAILY PAPERS.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
}
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputv Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, It.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under *
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All neiv business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,940,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,940,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. -
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY,
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
|ank of [)euj Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner QEORQE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Share 9 ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
URANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods; and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
A
>y
mm
H*
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Anstralasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GR
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings, to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.’’
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEYEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ~ 9 Bridge Street,
BANK OF NFW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
The Hon. Sir Charles li. Macllellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.U., AI.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian State?, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London. *
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
■T, RTTSSKT/L FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
'A3KQAS
Bpijsng^)UHg:
for pe a n .i General Banking: Business p^ka.
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaui.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
I, Minimum At all Branches, and over Interest at o°/
/“ Deposit 2600 *e enc ' e s at Post Offices P er annum **/o
in Australia and Papua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL PtputT Gorcrnor. Jun f . 1916 DENISON MILLER. Oorenior
- FARMERS 8 SETTLERS' LOANS |—
The Commissioners are prepared to receive applications up to £750 on the
following tenures: —
Freeholds; C.P's.; "Homestead Grants; Homestead Selections; Settle-
ment Leases; Settlement Purchases; C.P. Leases; Additional C.P
Leases; Special C.P. Leases; Crown Leases; Homestead Farm Leases;
Irrigation Farm Leases.
Rate of Interest, per cent.—Loans Repayable by
Half-Yearly Instalments in 31 Years.
Application forms obtainable at the Head Office or any Branch of the Bank and
at the offices of Crown Land Agents.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA.
S.S. RUPARA
S.S. PARING A
SAILINGS CANCELLED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Com,,*,,*,
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's OlRee
G. S. YCILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BIUDGE STttEET. SYDNEY
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney Mel
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice’versa
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney. *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to Loudon.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia ami
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON k CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company a magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: — ,
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COM 5
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction wita
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Miirwilluninafi,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
£2,000,000
£1,198,079
£105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq.,
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ;
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT It.
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
Chairman;
frank n.
LYSAGfIT,
.: Hon. F.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. IT. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Fin sky.
LONDON (37 Threadnecdle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at So Places throughout New South wa
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacte •
\LL AUSTRALIANS visiting Lo» d( ®
should read the British Aus *
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated P‘P
containing mail and cable news from ‘
tralia and news of Australians in. .
and at home. Australians are cordiauj
vited to visit the British Austkalasia
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 H’S 1 .
born, London, W.C., where they can set.
home papers, meet their friends, use
telephone, and obtain information wi
charge.


RAMESES
Th© Underwear for Good Service
B
iETWEEN “Raineses” the Pharaoh of three thousand „ , , lT , ,, ,
, , . '•mce mousana years ago and RampW rhp
underwear of to-day there is at toast this in common • “ * tte
stands supreme. common. each in separate sphere
But “Rameses” Underwear enjoys a vaster popularity than ever its
sake knew; as a matter of fact, it has proved a deal more useful!
pompous name-
With the price of the best woollen underwear soaring far beyond the reach of most of
us, who indeed would not appreciate the comfort, the satisfaction, and the extreme
moderateness of cost that “Rameses” offers?
Of course, “Rameses” is British, and “Rameses,” being made from
•mund, durable yarn, will give fine service both in wash and wear.
specially selected,
Next to the “absolute best” in
underwear —which means a
frightening price—comes "Ra-
ineses" at a price within the
means of all. a price at which
you cannot duplicate its ex-
cellence however and wherever
you may search, a price which
has previously meant the buy-
ing of inferior German goods.
( Trade mark)
“Rameses” British Undergar-
ments are MADE to their full
size (not stretched thereto),
they have flattened seams, and
are soft, elastic, cosy and pro-
tective; every detail has been
carefully studied. Ask for
“Rameses” Underwear if com-
fort, economy, value and patriot-
ism weigh with you.
Llieie is a wide range of Raineses Garments for men and women,
garment beats the Rameses Trade Alark, and every garment is
‘RAMESES ’ WILL PLEASE YOU. Insist on “Rameses” next time
every genuine
unshrinkable,
you buy.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices 2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
FOR RHEUMATISM AND GOUTY
AFFECTIONS AND OTHER
LOCAL PAINS USE
iJj
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Camphorated
Petroleum Jelly
For sale at all chemists and general stores, in glass
bottles and tin tubes. Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal
Co.
Moscow
as
■s
■
mm
/
Cutain-teed
ji * -
'"“Mi 1 M Viiji
;!>sss§
•wsw*!^
!^TQiMurrfe«*!. l V
*i:i'
'i'V'V.-l
-'-^.ii
S2UBEI PEOUIRi?
A Flat Roof—
But No Seepage
EVEN after many years Certain -
teed Reinforced Flat Roofs re-
main water-tight and leak-proof.
Certain-teed
Reinforced Flat Roof
is a superior type of built-up roof. It is
built up on the job from alternate layers of
Certain-teed Roofing and Certain-teed Asphalt Cement.
It has a smooth surface, washed clean by every shower.
Always sanitary.
Certain-teed Reinforced Flat Roofs are spark-proof and
fire-retarding. They are unaffected by fumes, vapors, gases
or acids. No painting required. And they are fully
guaranteed.
Ask our local representative to show you this roofing and
other Certain-teed products.
Mr. C. C. McCann, Perpetual Trustee'Bldg., Sydney. N. S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation
Proprietors of: General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Mound City Paint & Color Co. Gregg Varnish Co.
Wholesale Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES: John Hanks & Son Pty. Ltd., Pitt Streep Sydney
VICTORIA: John Hanks & Son Pty. Ltd., Bonrke Street,
QUEENSLAND : James Campbell & Sons Ltd., Creek St., Bnsbat e-
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Harris Searfc & Co., Ltd., Ctawler IPlace - Adel,tide
WEST AUSTRALIA: McLean Bros.. & Rigg.Ltd., 104 Murray Street, P tin
TASMANIA: IV. Hart & Sons, Charles Street, Launeeston l atten a i U
Wilson Street, Burnie; T. J. Cane & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Sturt, Hobain
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
ine Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.1..C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., ICC.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £30,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
. DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000
I he Socacty issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
lo l' prospectus and full information without delay.
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON.
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
a
£
Modern
\ .22 Cal.
I^Vpeating
Rifle
A modern .22 caliber
repeating rifle must
combine accuracy
with convenience and
safety. The Remington
UMC Repeater Has a solid
breech, is hammerless, easily
taken apart and shoots with unfailing
accuracy. Examine one at your dealer sor
send for descriptive catalogue free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO.
D. D. BRYANT. Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
UMC
*# <ji l.itoyi || HlMWfciWKL|fc 1 ; '| ll,li,l !liP
r' r w _.—■ -
*
F
K-r
<±p
fe
tasiSsS
tei^V-
i^J»
ZV
:H!
i| I Jy ■■£-*(Jler :—'
-7 /
-rxm
s -cw
HA \v-s
fl|»
MM*
B mm
ym
a
=. x
His Master’s Voice
Gramola
vU»'*r» u
The Stage of the World.
MODEL No. 2—Figured
Mahogany or Oak :: Price
Other “His Master’s Voice” Models from jfi 15s.
“ GRAMOPHONE ’’
Registered Trade Mark,
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD,
163 PITT STUEET SYDNEY.


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
Tenders.
MUNICIPALITY OF MANLY.
TENDERS are invited up to A p.m. on
Tuesday, ISth September, 101«, for tn
right to lease land at the southern end o
the Ocean Beach for the purpose of erecting
up-to-date Hot Salt Water Baths, Electric
Baths, etp. Particulars on application
the undersigned. D. HOGAN, Town Uler •
Town Hall, Manly, 22nd August, 191 1.
THE TENNIS STYLE.
TENNIS SHIRTS.
TEXXIS SHIRTS, made of white
mercerised twill, all seams double
sewn, and fitted with collar and
pocket.
Prices 2 11. 3 11. 4 11.
Of Fancy white striped,
Prices 3/11, 4 6, 4 11.
Of Zephyr,' Tussore shades.
Price 4 11 each.
CRICKETIXG SHIRTS, made of
Cream Wincey, light and durable.
Prices 7 6 and 8 6 each.
SILK SHIRTS, Tennis style, with
collar and pocket, in heavyweight
white Jap silk.
Prices 15/6, 16/6.
In Chefoo Silk,
12/6 each.
FINNEYS PAY THE CARRIAGE,
Home Cooking at Finney’s
The beauty about that immortal pie that mother
used to make is that you and we never had anv
doubts as to what that pie contained. We both knew
beyond all question that the ingredients and the cook-
ing were beyond-reproach. We have pretty much the
same sentiments about Finney's Shirts and Pyjamas
We make them ourselves, at home, so to' speak
choosing the Fabrics, cutting, tailoring, and finishing
each garment in its entirety from cloth to completion
—and when we go on record that these “Finnev”
Shirts and Pyjamas at the prices quoted are the finest
man can make or money can buy. we are not guessing
at some other fellow’s work, but giving vou first-hand
information of our own. based on actual' knowledge of
the contents.
YOU CAN'T BEAT FINNEY'S.
NEGLIGE SHIRTS
NEGLIGE SHIRTS, with dressed
narrow Cuffs and soft centre pleat,
and fitted with our double-life
bands, made from good cambrics.
Colors are neat, narrow’ lines on
white grounds.
Prices 4 6, 5 6, 6 6 each.
Of plain white mercerised twill.
Prices 4 6, 5 6, 6 6 each.
TOURIST SHIRTS.
TOURIST SHIRTS, with soft
turnover cuffs and dressed double-
life neckbands, made of erood-
quality Cambrics, in a good range
of neat colorings.
Prices 4 6, 5/6, 6 6 each.
Of Fancy, white striped materials.
Price 5 11.
FINNEY, ISLES § CO. LTD,, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
3S
the tourist STYLE
IN BANANA LAND
“Norbell”: Queensland Railway Depart-
ment, which has labelled hundreds of sta-
tions with Binghi names, recently christ-
ened a new station “Bongmollow,” which it
is explained means “dead as a stone.” So
far, local residents haven’t passed a vote of
thanks to the Department for the compli-
ment.
“Mimosa”: One of the features of the
recent Brisbane Exhibition was the display
in the ring of artillery and cavalry horses.
The idea was to demonstrate practically 7 to
breeders the class of horse that the Imperial
Government is willing to pay for. It was
an object lesson that should be copied
throughout Australian show-rings.
One of the worst phases of the impudent
North Queensland railway strike was the
“Nationalists’ ” attempt to encourage the
strikers against the Government. The view-
point of many of these bad citizens and their
press was that the downing of the Govern-
ment at the next elections was so important
that the strikers might starve out the North
and welcome. That explains why Premier
Ryan, having persuaded the southern men
to have no strike, and to even abandon their
projected ballot as to striking, was loudly
accused of having “nobbled” the southern
unions and used them to bludgeon the north-
ern men.
“O’Roo” : Brisbane’s water supply is pro-
bably the dirtiest in Australia. zYn arrow-
root cocky from the Coomera called on a city
house to offer his first crop for sale, and pro-
duced a couple of pounds of the milled stuff
as sample. To test its purity they drew
from the tap a tumbler of Enoggera, into
which was poured some of the glistening
white powder Cocky had brought. There
were brown streaks after the water had been
run off again. "Not very clean —we’ll give
you £lB a ton,” was the offer. But Cocky
was not having any ; he took the remainder
of his sample to another house of business,
robbery, etc., this time carrying also a bottle
of rain-water. They promptly gave him £34,
the proclaimed price.
“Tombar”: “Jokai” (B. IG/8/T7) is cor-
rect regarding the cochineal’s dinner; but it
won’t eat every kind of pear you like to
serve up. Some years ago local experiments
were made with coch. as a pear-eradicator,
and it was proved that the thorny-leaved
vegetable was just meat and beer to him ; but
be wasn’t taking any smooth-leaved pear. I
first saw the white, fluffy little importation
a couple of years back in the town common,
Townsville, where it had been placed on the
municipal pear crop by the City Council;
the leaves of the plants, where it had taken
hold, had the appearance of being covered
with a white, scaly blight. I passed through
the common some months later, and what
then remained of the pear was a withered,
fibrous mass of bonfire material. Since then
the Commonwealth Works Department, hav-
ing first ascertained that he was a good
unionist, has put Bill Cochineal to work
weed-clearing on the Military Reserve round
Kissing Point.
Three recent days in the life of the Leg.
Council which the country regards as too
precious to lose. (1) Minister in charge
omits to have any business for it to do; (J— ~
next day) no quorum; (.3 —following day)
House about to be counted out before it
began, when a frantic search produced the
necessary 13th man. The fine advt. for the
efficiency of the Council made even Fowles,
M.L.C., dumb.
“Wangan”: “Half Moon” (B. 2/8/Y7)
need not have gone as far north as Thurs-
day' Island to see gambling carried on with
impunity 7. Here in Innisfail night and day
one can see Asiatic degenerates of all shades
crowding round gaming-tables, in surround-
ings whose squalor is only exceeded by
their stench. The trouble would not be
worth mentioning if the colored races were
the only players, but they are not. I have
seen decent lads fresh from school converted
into inveterate gamblers through a small
success in these hells, and their associates,
unable to resist tlie'r tales of good fortune,
follow in their footsteps.
ONE OF US.
BENJAMIN: “Vat sort of a parrot is that, Cohen?"
COHEN : “Veil, for pisness purposes, he's a macaw. But any fool hut a Christian could
tell vat nashinality that beak belongs to, ain’dt it ?”
‘•Mag”: Jack O'Brien, who sent the Mary-
borough Alert that letter about his
safe arrival at an English camp (B.
2/8/’l7), is a shining example. He has
been wharf-lumper, sheep-drover. Labor-
barracker, town humorist, and 50 other
things. The sporting medico, after passing
him as fit, inquired as man to man : “Now,
Jack, as it’s all over, how old are you?”
“Sixty-two,” replied the young battler
frankly. Three cheers for him !
“Mainshaft”: Harry Marshall, Queens-
land Under-Sec. for Mines, has at his place
at Samford a new sort of banana. It stays
green even when ripe, has the flavor of the
Cavendish, the sugar banana and the old
plantain well known to Sydney in the ’Bo’s,
and its section is triangular. The accidental
fruit is the result of the three varieties hav-
ing been mixed up in a suburban back-yard
“plantation,” and allowed to thicken to a
grove. Whether the double-cross is the re-
sult of the inter-commerce of roots, or the
work of those interested panderers the bees,
no man knoweth. However, the local banana
ring doesn’t handle the excellent thing, say-
ing that its color will prevent its sale. But
the green of its ripeness is a fine, spectacu-
lar green; and, sooner or later, the public
stomach will disbelieve the evidence of the
public eye.
“Hecagus”: Shortly after the bloodletting
started in Europe, Roderick S. Dallas, of
Mt. Morgan, trekked to London at his own
expense. With neither friends nor influence
he had rather a dull introduction to the I og:
the heads of the various aerial corps to
whom he applied would have none of him
without experience. So he decided on a
course of training, again at his own expense.
Then one lucky day be met Australian avia-
tor Sidney Pickles, who lent a sympathetic
ear and gave some excellent advice. When,
later on, Dallas sat for an exam, at a naval
aviation school, of 84 students he topped the
list. Since then he has risen to squadron
commander, and is the sole survivor of the
squadron in which lie was originally a sub-
lieut. Besides designing a swift scout which
is in use on the West Front he lias to his
credit 21 enemv machines and one observa-
tion balloon. Incidentally, he can pin l the
D.S.O. (with bar) and the Croix de Gueire
on bis tunic.
, , , „ ~ TT . t ~ ,
Mainshaft”: W G. H.ggs got the usual
Hughes answer to h,s quest,on in the House
of Heps, asking if the Commonwealth had
„ . , . 6 .. ~ „ , , ~
yet agreed to permit the Queensland Govern-
, , , ,
},° ?. ct as . agents 1 ’ tbe wolfram and
! n ‘ n^ a ?, of , tb ® , Hughes
p that he did not think that making
the State Government the miners’ agent
thTnrodimer ” e unf o' 106 °f tb ° n metabs t 0
the producer. Ihe Queensland Government
Hiio-lms e pnnld K hsree^<rr,t lg f ger ~p riceF ’ wbicb
ve»rs aP-n W H,*,- gt o f tb e miners two
jeais agobut. that was not Higgs’s ques-
given a Znlt ,S e is rm ha - s bee , n
7 presumably t * ies ? “ inelals
ElecSi? the TrvTnPhank Pn £ d , Tl ' ermo '
L.lectiic, the Irvinebank Co., Fred Brown
and other tungsten miners estimate that a
State agency could cut down private-agenev
by £l2 10s. a ton for wolfram
and ±25 a ton for molybdenite; and the sav-
ing would amount to that big increase in
pnees. Now Hughes tries to side-track the
matter by saying that he does not think
something or other. However, the pressure
from the miners on one side and the Minis-
try for Munitions on the other will yet force
him to acknowledge that the State claim to
act as miners’ agent is just and solid,
Meantime Minister for Mines Alf .Tones
keeps knocking at the door; and oven Hughes
must open soon. °
In Queensland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Across the pale clear sky a peewee's wing
Flashes in passing. By the creek’s soft
gloom
The bottle-brush is tipped with scarlet bloom.
A whispering, artless song the breezes sing,
Scattering the orchard’s first frail blossom-
ing.
While, where the wattle lifts its golden
plume.
The sparkling air grows drowsy with per-
fume.
Can this be Winter? Nay, ’tis surely Spring.
Y'et Winter marks the calendar discreet.
And thus, I think, fearful of Summer's
power
That sears her fragile loveliness so soon.
Young Spring came pleading with her piping
sweet,
For share of one still splendid shining hour,
And Winter loved the witchery of her tune.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, September l, i9 17
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Following the fashion, the local members
of the A.G.U. (Australian Governors’ Uni™?
had a lazy week, although her Ex. i e J '
hand to steer the annual meeting- 0 f tl.
Lady Musgrave Lodge, and spoke cheerily n
from the quarter-dais. Next week there’s •,
stiddy job awaiting them at Bundabere— t
Show has to be uncorked.
We’re growing a cantankerous lot' \
little while ago, when the Government
grabbed a number of choice slices of Ji us
grave Park for bowling-greens,' croquet
lawns and tennis-courts, not a shot was
fired. Now, just because the same authority
proposes to resume three and a half acres
upon which to erect a high-school, the row is
deafening. The only explanation I can give
you is that such luxuries as high-schools are
quite uncalled for in war-time.
Young C. B. Gallaway, reported killed at
Pozieres, was a great grandson of Kear-
Admiral John Gore, who figured in N. S
Wales as a landholder some time in the
’30’s. Four generations successively lived at
Gilmour, near Lake Bathurst, spreading
themselves out over 70 years.
H. E. Poole, a director of B. J. Ball, Ltd
left to-day for Canada and the United States’
Mrs. Poole went as chaperon. Prior to sail-
ing the Merchants’ Association said the worst
it could about him at Lennon’s Hotel; his
staff gave him a writing-case; and the Red
Cross folk, producing a gold badge, pinned
him down with it to a promise to go on
doing strenuous work for them.
Mrs. W. J. Sowden, of Adelaide, was the
guest at a tea-party given by the executive
of the Wattle Day League in the Botanic
Gardens on Wednesday. The lady’s worse
half is “Federal” president of the League,
as well as president of the S.A. League. A
water-color (wattle, of course), framed in
silver, was bestowed on the visitor.
The other evening Marie Tempest unveiled
the J. C. Y\ llliamson honor-board at Iler
Majesty’s. One hundred and thirty local
employees of the firm have enlisted. On
Friday she left for Sydney after being made
a life member of Tattersall’s Club.
Died in New York, July 24, Mrs. Catherine
St. Ledger, widow of Daniel P. O’Shaugh-
nessy, aged 74. She was a daughter of
James St. Ledger, an Irishman who settled in
Bananaland. and, dying, left numerous St.
Ledgers behind him. Catherine v r ent to
U.S.A. as a girl, and lived with relatives
till she met her fate, Daniel, youngest son of
John O’Shaughnessy, of County Clare.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“M.F.” : Brisbane land and estate agents
are becoming nervy at the prospect of the
Government shortly establishing its own land
agency in connection with the workers’ dwell-
ings scheme. This would cripple their busi-
ness. Bowyangs must first have the paddock
before the Government will advance him the
money to erect the house, and the land and
estate sharks grow l fat on the arrangement.
The Government, how T ever, could acquire
suburban allotments at the Councils’ valua-
tions. and then sell both land and house to
workers on an easy time-payment system.
There would be a risk in this, no doubt;
but it is worth taking a risk to establish
men in their own homes.
"M.F.”: Bananaland’s Parliament House
is easily the most sloppily-constructed talk-
shop in the Commonw T ealth. If a free but
unenlightened citizen in the gallery wants to
follow the fate of a bill sent on from the
Assembly, he has to tumble down two wind-
ing flights of steps, hurry along a chilly,
shadowy corridor, and climb two more instal-
ments of curly stairs; he will then be puffing
and panting in the Museum of Fossils. The
pressmen in the Assembly are perched right
over Mr. Speaker’s head. They canT hear
much, but it is a fine place for dropping ink
on to the flOOO-a-year skull below. Inci-
dentally, this press gallery was responsible
for the original William Johnson of James
Edmond's “Journalist and Two Bears.” who
staggered the House by thickly proposing
“that thish House adjournish for ever and
never meetsh again.”


r
M
)\w
ft*
E
i
CHARACT
EDACK of the Series 18
Studebaker FOUR and
SIX there is character. The
character developed through
sixty-four years of business
success has won for Studebaker
a name which is favorably
known all over the world.
Wherever there is civilisation
the name of Studebaker is held
in good repute. This goodwill
is a priceless business asset.
To protect this reputation
Studebaker MAKES SURE.
EVERY piece of steel that
goes into the construction
of a Studebaker is true and
tried. Experts in the art of
making steel have “checked it
up." Innumerable tests in the
Studebaker engineering labora-
tories “make sure” that it is
many times stronger than neces-
sary to carry the car and its load.
See these cars now —ride in
them—know what they can do
on the road.
Deliveries can be made about
September 15.
Order your car NOW.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.


Ball Bearings.
Thrust Types .
Single Thrust
900 Series
Flat Seat
Single Thrust
700 Series with
Aligning Seat and Washer
id
Double Thrust
1900 Series
Flat Seats
L:JUHiKj
Double Thrust
800 Series
Self-aligning Seats and Washers
Double Thrust
1700 Series
Self-aligning, Self-Contained
r
Single Thrust
500 Series
Self-aligning Seat and Washer, Heavy Dut^
GARDNER, W/ERN
==& CO. -
Melbourne 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane 3(»9 Queen Street.
BAD
LEG
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
and PILLS are the
great English remedy,
within the reach of all,
In all cases of Bad
Legs, P oisoned
Wounds and Hands,
Ulcers, Carbuncles,
Muscular Pains, Bun-
ions, Snake and Insect
Bites, and will save
lancing or cutting,
English Prices, 1/3, 3/- & 51- per box
Sold by all Stores and Chemists and mlt r lesa e by
ELLIOTT BROS., ANTHONY HORDERNS’
W H. SOUL, PATTINSON & CO..
AUSTRALIAN DRUC CO
ALBERT & Co., 73, Farrin;don St., London. E.C. 4
rfquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20.1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents :—R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by OAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
JASON
UNDERWEAR
British Made t i
from Australasian Wool.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Xon -aperient.)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by \. MURPHY, WoY
\Y oj\ X.S.W., Sole. Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Bov, or a Course of
8 Roves £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Utah. JB9l.
Beyond dispute, the present war is the
greatest engineering competition ever deviced.
SUNBEAM
productions have always achieved distinction
in competitions. To-day Sunbeam cars and
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
aircraft engines
I
are engaged in playing, their parts well-
nigh every theatre in which the Allies’ arms
are engaged, and are winning greater laurels
in this test of unprecedented proportions and
duration than any of the many conspicuous
ones they have gained in times of peace.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St, London, England
WORKS .... Wolverhampton, England
-
mm
tooMm£
tm
w&
'Mw@
is«
fifeWgr:
ms
wm
£s2i
!;y.
• . :-v;
is
WJ&Mm
mm
;S .: •••
ss?
* ; •>•
fef
St* 5
S'-;
sM3§gj
Ps;
: *. v ;
N
M:
5$
a©
m
If
!#t?s
sp^j
: :'i‘.“.i
5 : -f®'
m?AC
~ k -*r
J>;g
ls&&
isiS
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
‘Phosferine
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man write* :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes: —
"I have the. utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
fit Parsons’ Phosferine as a tonic in cases of
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.’
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D., C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton * Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your courtesy if, being served
J""th a * ul >*Utute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in Sts place, and the 1 cost of postage
j refunded to you. | j
TIIL thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you O ov }9
let the Ravisher of Belgium tcin with
lifting a hand?
One pull, one dip, one push, and
the reservoir fills in a flash.
One fill suffices to write 20,000 words.
One turn of the screw regulates the ink flow.
One self-contained pen—needing no brittle glass
filler or inky rubber squirt.
One & unique—that’s the
a
YOU SIMPLY
UNSCREW II
AND
PULL IT OUT
Onoto
Pen
Self,
Filling
Safety
Fountain
Price I-4/6 and up-
wards. Also ONOTO
Valveless for those who
do not want a Sen-
Filling Safety Pen,
from fO/6 upwards.
259°Bunhill Vo^ e T S ’ well ®F s ailcl stores - Manufacturers: Thos.
vLk sviif” d ° n ’ KC - Managing Agents : Norman
Dr. LA Rt:k & Co., Ltd.,
BAKER & LONGHVRST,
Presbyterian parson A. A. Aspinall.
founder and first head of Sydney Scots Col-
lege. sent liis four boys to the Front. One
came back, safely invalided. Two are still
in khaki. It was the youngest, Captain Bill.
M. of the Army Medical, who was killed
in action on July 20.
“No. 181“ : Bunny from N. S. Wales
arrived in the trenches yesterday, and
weren’t we glad to see him ! Since then every
Tommy salutes Billjim. the O.C. dines with
the G.O.C. at divisional headquarters, and the
prestige of the A.I.F. has been given another
boost. I’m satisfied most of us never sus-
pected the value of our national bunny till
we left home and couldn’t get him.
“G. Arden Hill’s” send-off: —
Passed out in Wollongong- (N.S.W.), at 84, Robert
Reid Wilson, formerly master mariner and latterly
proprietor of an establishment closely resembling the
Old Curiosity Shop. Born in Edinburgh, he went to
sea early, and was at Sebastopol during the Crimea
War. Subsequently he brought the Dandenong to
Australia, and for many years traded between Syd-
ney and Wollongong as skipper of the old Civility.
It is related that on one occasion, when a heavy sea
was running along the coast, the pilot at Wollongong,
noticing the Civility flying the blue peter, hoisted
the stand-off signals and hurried down to the wharf.
“You can’t leave to-night,’’ thundered the pilot,
“the ball’s up.” “Ball be damned!” megaphoned
the mariner. “I’ll be in Paddy’s Market or purgatory
at daybreak!” Paddy’s Market it was.
“Olga Looseleaf” : After all the agitation
on behalf of the Victorian clerk it is interest-
ing to compare the lot of the dress-model
with that of the typist on the other side of
the partition. The typist gets somewhere
around 255. and does arithmetic all day long,
wearing out her clothes on a hard chair and
winning a red nose as the reward of her in-
dustry. The dress-model gets from 80s. up-
wards for walking about and looking pleas-
ant when the country buyer comes in. She
does no other work, and is supplied by the
firm, during working hours, with dresses,
shoes, stockings and corsets. Better to be a
good figure than to be good at figures.
“K.”: An engineer friend who has a
business of his own came back laughing after
his first volunteer day in the erecting shed at
Eveleigh. “ ‘Go slow’!” he chortled. “Why,
some of the chaps out there have forgotten
how to go at all! They gave me for
laborer a decent sort who has been there for
years—a good Government man. We had
to put a valve weighing about 751 b. in the
dome of the engine, and when he looked
round and saw that no crane was available
to lift it he guessed that we woulcFbe hung
up for two hours. He was quite ready to
stand by and wait. But I hadn’t come out
there to loaf, so I told him to get a ladder
and a rope, and walked up with the valve
on my shoulder. There was no man-killing
about it either, and no strain if you went
about it sensibly. Whenever the missus
wants the piano shifted a foot at home, that
“laborer” must exert about three times as
much power as I asked him for in the shop.
“Coot” on dead-men’s shoes
Under a new Vic. law for which Labor-member
Blackburn deserves the credit, when a person dies
intestate leaving father and mother but no widow 01-
child, the estate is to be divided equally between
the old people. Where an intestate leaves a mother,
but no father, wife, husband or child, and the net
value does not exceed £5OO, then the whole lot is
to go to mother absolutely. But Blackburn omitted
to add a desirable alteration of the law should the
intestate leave estate valued at over £5OO net. Thus,
a man dies with an estate valued at £5lO net,
leaving a mother and 10 brothers and sisters, but no
father, wife or child. The £5lO is divisible equally
between the mother, brothers and sisters, and the
mother receives one-eleventh only. Where there is
not a wife or husband, children or father, the mother
should be entitled to the first £5OO absolutely, and
with the next of kin to the remainder in equal
shares. The Vic. law of distribution, where a wife
is left but no children, is, if the estate is under
£lOOO, that the wife takes the lot; but, if the
estate is over £lOOO, then she gets the first £lOOO
and half the rest. In most cases it would be just
as equitable, if there is a mother but no wife or
children, for the mother to get the first £5OO.
Australia is writing her name in the sky
over Flanders. Lieut. V. G. M. Sheppard
has got into the cables for having, at the age
of 23, won a D. 5.0., an M.C. and a daring
reputation as a lone-hand flier. He is a
N. S. Wales youngster. Another is Lieut.
A. W. M. Mowle, whose dad is clerk of the
Assembly. Mowle is in Wandsworth Hos-
pital, recovering from a wounded side, a
broken arm and a punctured face. Learning
to fly in Australia, he won his wings in
England and his scars in France. After
six weeks’ war experience he downed an
Albatross, and was going after another Hun
when a third approached and knocked him
out. But he fluttered back 16 miles to his
own aerodrome; then landed with a crash,
breaking his arm. Another bird who has
been doing things is Lieut. V. A. Norvill,
who joined at Broken Hill. He attacked
seven Germans at a great height, and kept
it up till his petrol tank was pierced. But
he couldn't flutter out of German territory,
and was taken prisoner.
From an old Bulletin Billjim:—
This is the tale of a man who Is 'braver than
most. Stretcher-bearer Jack (“Paddy”) Vanston,
of Armldale (X.S. V.), after seeing Gallipoli out,
took on stretcher-bearing in the Camel Corps. At
Rafa his cool daring was the talk in the camps for
days, and someone wrote a glowing account of it in
a Cairo paper. Despite the hail of machine-gun
and rifle bullets, with an occasional shell thrown
in, he and a cobber (I don’t know either of them)
attended to the w-ounded for 10 hours. During that
time they carried 20 men out of the danger zone
to the dressing-station a mile in the rear. His
unit was ordered to retire to El Arish on the Turks
surrendering, but when the time came to depart
A anston was mi-dug; he had returned to the
trenches, and he labored there until morning, dressing
wounded and burying Australians, Maorilanders and
Turks. It was the same in the recent fight at
Gaza, when his. unit was surrounded by Jacko, every
officer being either killed or wounded, and only
seven fighting their way back to the British lines:
through it all he walked about picking up wounded
and carrying them to the safety of which he doesn’t
seem to know the meaning so far as he himself is
concerned."


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache
Stopain is both simple and economical’
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journev
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold bv retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
A
!>
W
SC,
H übty
r+u
&
jgsj
s^\
KV&£
f-
y
s/
A
\
t
7
C\
UI
VjL
ft
\
c\\
Si
y$
6s
&
%
' -N
Sss^j
VI
TS
iT
*assA
GRAMMY Chamberlain
<COPYRiCMTeCJ j
Y?~s.
y
When influenza first attacked father we had only been
married a few months and I cannot tell you how I worried. It was abadattacktoo, and you
have no idea the physical and mental suffering it caused him or how it defied treatment.
In those days the expense of a doctor’s visit meant a lot to us and I was at a loss
to know just what to do. Then a neighbour told me of Gran ay Chamberlain and
It was wonderful what prompt relief it
gave him, how quick the pain in the chest
disappeared, the fever subsided, and how
it enabled him to rest comfortably.
Since then I have often had occasion to
use Chamberlains Cough Remedy for
influenza and have never known it to fail or
any bad after effects when it was used.
Now you can unc erstand why I say it is
my best friend and your best friend.
“Now be sure
t/ou get
Chamberlain' s“
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN'S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets area new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Diver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Diver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PIDDS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
After examining 257 of the Latest Models European and American Cars the latest
jUjtchgU?
was designed, and all the new ideas and touches are combined in this master car.
Besides this, in the MITCHELL is embodied 31 extra features which other cars
omit. The present Model shows the final results of 700 improvements.
You will find it the Most Interesting Car —the Host Complete Car.
AGENTS—
N.S.W.:
F. H. Gordon & Co.,
133-137 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Janies A. Munro & Co.,
493r503 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Orchard Ralph & Co.,
105 King William St,,
Adelaide.
RWWCWWWW
-
m
4i t ' jfi
:•> •:•:•£:&>- *'s'" < :M%rs •£■
" ' "■ ;'
? mm m
w if..
{,
i i
:V ss
AGENTS—
QUEENSLAND:
Queensland Motor Agency
Ltd.,
Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Bradley & Williams,
853-857 Hay St.,
Perth.
TASMANIA:
L. O. Hildyard,
159 Macquarie St.,
Hobart.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
ABBEY
SHOES!
YOU, too, should wear Abbey
Shoes. Although they are so
superior in every way to the ordi-
nary run of footwear they are
really the cheapest—judged by the
EXTRA SERVICE they give.
They are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings-
narrow, medium and wide. This
insures you perfection of fit, which
means the utmost comfort.
We illustrate a special Golf Shoe
in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 37/0
Light Soles, 35/-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Jin
V,
Don't forget to use
t
tjCARBOUCjj
r
to-night—and again
in the morning .
You will find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores .
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester. England.
AVON
A TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money-.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes .your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Those Brave Recruits
must eat, and we do not want them to devolve to the
primitive and eat from their fingers. We therefore
show a Spoon, Fork and Knife in one, and yet which
separate for the purposes of use. We have hitherto sold
them as fast as they arrived, but by means of cabling'
and writing we have succeeded in getting enough of
them this shipment to allow us to advertise them for
the benefit of our inland customers. For the trenches
they are undoubtedly the most convenient combination a
man can carry.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures. Cash only.
Knife, Spoon
a ncl Fork
Combination,
as illustrated,
5/6 each.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOSIT OP
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ ,i £5
£8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 10 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 O 0 „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country
Commonwkalth Bank of Australia. thth March, 1917
“And You Should
Freely Use
BORATED TALCUM
If you want ‘Baby’ to get rid
of that troublesome eruption.
Give him his baths regularly
with plenty of “Mennen’s”
nr
after, and his skin will clear up in a few days.
Why do Doctors and Nurses advise Mothers to use
Mennen’s Borated Talcum?
Because
they knowit is the purest/and hence the best.
There are many kinds of Talcum, but the
finest, smoothest and costliest comes from Italy—from the
best mines. That is the talcum “Mennen” employs.
By a secret process it is refined to the highest degree
—pure boric acid (a mild disinfectant) is combined with
it in the right proportion, and it is faintly scented.
Mennen’s Talcum can now be obtained in a variety of
tints and perfumes, all made according to the famous
Mennen formula, as follows: Borated, Violet, Sen Yang
Cream Tint (a rich cream color), Flesh Tint (not a rouge’
but a delicate pink talcum) and Talcum for Men. For
sale by more than 100,000 dealers throughout the world
INFERIOR TALCUMS ARE DEAR AT ANY PRICE USE ONLY
THE BEST—“MENNEN’S”
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
® .
Trade Mark
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
mA
•■JF*
a
f
SOME RAZOR.
A perfectly-tempered blade distinguishes
The “PLUM” RAZOR
noin all others; and it gives just that
smooth, velvety shave that every man
appreciates. "
PRICE 10/« —POST FREE.
°l<ler f °‘ t ' v ° bears, free of
S,llg lo/6 laZO1 '’ Vu,cunite Handle,
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Sinffle Razor, Ivory Handle. 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS. *
Make Sure of a
Clean, Sanitary Bowl
by using Sani-Flush, the only
preparation that effectually
cleans the hidden trap, pre-
vents odors, makes dipping of
water and scrubbing unnec-
essary. Sprinkle a little in the
bowl every day.
Directions on every can of
Sam-Flash
\
Uniq u e
nothing else
like it. Not a
general clean-
ser, but made
only to clean
toilet bowls.
Does not
injure plumb-
ing connec-
tions.
Ask
Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush or can
get it quickly; or write us a card
giving your dealer’s name and we
will have you supplied.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney, N. S.W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DAXKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
¥
A
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia—or bloodlessness —
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
Tht Win• of Lift
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks
gives a sparkle to the eyes
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
• Wincarnis* is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
carnis’ from all Chemists and St
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7h
if you experience any difficulty
obtaining it, write direct to So*® *
tributing Agents, Fassett & Job -
833 Clarence Street. Svdne.v. Mb''*


SANATIVE
SHAVING
I
With
Assisted in case
of pimples, red-
ness and rough-
ness by light
touches of Cuti-
cura Ointment.
This means up-
to-date shaving
for sensitive
skins. No slimy
mug. No germs.
No waste of
time or money.
Sample Each
Free by Post
With 32-page Skin
Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns &
Co., Sydney. N. S.
W.” Sold through-
out the world.
CUTICURA
SOAP
CHRISTIE^
specfauje
TWO
L /A/E-5
I# 5
w
WOITC
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
m
mm
w%sr?
( At I
M.l Ai A.J.
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Zr /WASTER S T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in Thu
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES*,
Always Reliable
I
s
IIjJIIMU
I
fi
jj|
v*
ELEY ‘Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Fowaer
and 1* oz. shot.
ELEY 32
s. & w.
Revolver
ELEY
25
Automatic
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L? LONDON
•1
CAPS
Hats
AND
IP
The
TRESS,
reg? mark
guarantees
Q u gf if y,
rirusn
Ofa// First-class Hatters throughout the
Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSsC? UP LON DON ENGLAND
9
'pHE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Ansemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Ansemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
Dr. Andrew IVilson wrote : —“ 1 m trove risked blood can be made rich and good
“ by means of Iron 'jfe to ds,’ the most effective and desirable treatment"
A FORTNIGHT'S TRIAL (price 1/6; WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON ’JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3 1-
Manufactured only by The Jelloid' Co.. 205, City Road, London. England,
(Pronounced JeU-Uoyds)
Jjea a tij
Hints
4"
A ‘3
the: secret of a
GOOD COMPLEXION.
By MME. ST. CLAIRE.
Any woman nowadays may quickly reju-
venate her complexion at home by a safe and
painless process of gentle absorption. The
days of expensive and dangerous “operations’
are past, and each woman can be her own
beauty doctor. It has been discovered that
ordinary mercolised wax, applied like cold
cream, at night, will cause the thin veil of
lifeless, sallow or blotchy cuticle to gradually
and gently flake off in invisible, flour-like
particles, revealing the fresh, vigorous and
beautiful young skin underneath. Mercolised
wax absorbs only the unhealthy and un-
sightly outer fflm, and does not affect the
healthy tissue at all.
The process defies detection, and unveils
a lasting and beautiful complexion, which is,
of course, a perfectly natural one. For this
purpose thousands of women are now using
mercolised wax, which may be obtained at
any chemist’s. Naturally the process also
removes all such surface blemishes as
freckles, blotches, pimples, tan, liver spots,
etc. It makes the face look years younger
and prettier, and renders the use of face
creams unnecessary.
* * * *
Another valuable piece of information,
which many women will appreciate, concerns
the success of the new treatment for super-
fluous hair. A remedy for permanently erad-
icating this ugly form of facial disfigurement
now seems to have been found. It is simpli-
city itself. About one ounce of ordinary pure
powdered pheminol, which can be obtained
at any chemist’s, is all that is needed to put
one in the way of completely ridding oneself
of superfluous hair. When applied to the
obnoxious growth this causes it to immed.-
ately disappear, and the continuance of the
recommended treatment is said to finally
destroy the hair roots, so that there will be
no renewal of the growth. 15
The Inky Way.
Among the first persons given the right to
place after their names the letters 0.8. E.
(not Orful Blanky Egoist, but Order of the
British Empire) is Reay, manager of Mel-
bourne Herald’s London office. Six years
ago the Kernel made room in the Herald’s
editorial chair for Jack Davidson and left
for what he would call the Heart of the
Empire, and in that time he has become a
person of some importance in official London.
The 0.8. E. is supposed to be awarded for
“conspicuous services rendered in connection
with the war” —presumably in Reay’s case
for acting as inspector-general of a division
of London’s special Johns.
“Copy Boy” : After six years spent in the
Northern Territory as Chief Inspector of
Aborigines, Jimmy Beckett is back again on
the inky way, having joined the Melbourne
Herald staff. Jimmy was police rounds-
man on the Age when he was offered the
job of inspector, protector and father con-
fessor _to our black brother, and Binghi has
had few better friends. Beckett reckons
that Binghi gets anything but a fair deal
from many whites up north, and his habit
of putting this view and advancing facts to
support it made him unpopular with the
ruling clique. He practically dared the
administration to sack him, which would
have given him the right to an inquiry into
all the circumstances, and would probably
have brought some awkward facts to light;
but officialdom finally got over the difficulty
by abolishing his office on the _ ground of
“economy,” any mention of which in con-
nection with Northern Territory administra-
tion is merely a joke. So Binghi has lost
a good friend and the Herald gained a first-
class pressman.
* « * *
The most casual estimate of Armageddon
to date was made by a Melbourne weekly
which the other day published a page of
photographs headed “The War and Other
Incidents” !
Nowadays Beatrice Grimshaw, of Papua,
looks like the busiest woman writer south
of the line. This year she had two
novels published in London —“Kris Girl”
and “Nobody’s Island” —and a collection of
short stories is to appear in January. In
Cassell’s she has been running a serial; and
four miles from Samarai she has been run-
ning a plantation—or, rather, making a
plantation, which takes more time. When
she finds the hours dragging she writes other
things that make The Bulletin very glad
to hear from her.
* * * *
“Melb” : Lately-dead nonagenarian Sydney
Gibbons was one of the founders of a Mel-
bourne comic paper, which old hands will
recall when I say that the others in the ven-
ture were .Tames Smith, Chevalier, Sinnett,
Stiffe and Edgar Ray. This Stiffe was cred-
ited with having got from London Punch
a fabulous sum for the celebrated line “Ad-
vice to Persons About to Marry—Don’t.”
True, I have seen the line attributed to at
least two others —a’Beckett and Mayhew.
* * * *
.Tames W. Spicer, who died at Sydney re-
cently, joined the N. S. Wales Typo. Associa-
tion in ’66, was four years president, 17 years
delegate to and 14 years president of the
Printing Trades Federal Council, and held
a seat on the executive of the Association for
22 years. He was one of the pioneer Labor-
ites in the Ma State; and though a nomina-
tion for State Parliament was dangled before
his eyes, he turned aside. He left the
sunshine at 72.
* * *
Brilliant descriptive flash from an aircraft
poem :
....a winged messenger of Heaven
Unto the white, up-turned wondering eyes
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
When he bestrides the lazy-pacmg clouds
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
Author, W. Shakspeare. The only thing the
wonderful Elizabethan left out was the
bomb-dropping and machine-gunning; other-
wise he is quite modern. #
MY TYPEWRITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I have a trim typewriter now,
They tell me none is better;
It makes a pleasing, rhythmic row,
And neat is every letter.
1 tick out stories by machine,
Dig pars, and gags, and verses keen,
And lathe them off in manner slick.
It is so easy, and it’s quick.
And yet it falls short, I’m afraid,
Of giving satisfaction,
This making literature by aid
Of scientific traction;
For often, I can’t fail to see,
The dashed thing runs away with me.
It bolts, and do whate’er I may
I cannot hold the runaway.
It is not fitted with a brake,
And endless are my verses,
Nor any yarn I start to make
Appropriately terse is.
'Tis plain that this machine-made screed
Is fit but for machines to read ;
So “Wanted” (as an iron censor)
“A good, sound, secondhand condenser!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
“Bill Bowyang” : Ned Cooper, well known
up and down the bumpy Inky Way of North
Queensland, has followed many a cobber, ills
unit, the Camel Corps, went into action near
Gaza, but Ned, being camel holder, had to
view the fight from the rear. Later in the
day he watched scores of his wounded mates
being carried to the clearing station.
“Strath!” he said, “Jaeko must be giving
our chaps hell.” When another lot of
wounded passed, “Strath!” he said, some-
body’s wanted,” and, handing his camels to
a comrade, grabbed his rifle and hurried to
the firing-line. There was no court-imirtial
over Ned for deserting his camels. After a
Turkish shell burst near him, what remained
was not exactly fit for court-maitialling.
The loss of his seat in the Senate has
failed to wilt ex-printer Edward Findley.
After the elections he went straight into a
job as advertising-rep. for a Melbourne
weekly, and now wears a fresh look that
he lacked in his latter days in the Senate.


A fine instrument
yet quite inexpensive
You will be well satisfied if you purchase an “Amberola”
Phonograph. It will please you both in regard to appearance
and purity of tone.
Edison “Amberola” 30 — £9/10/-
is an instrument of undoubted merit, and has proved to be a
great-favorite. It has a handsome cabinet of golden oak, and is
fitted with the famous Diamond Stylus Reproducer, which
avoids the necessity for needle-changing, and which plays the
famous Edison unwearable —and practically unbreakable —Blue
Amberol Records. Stands nearly 13 inches high. Price
£9/10/-
Inspect it at the nearest Edison dealer’s, or write direct for
illustrated catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
IS,
'LOCAL
fS
,PATRIOTISM
' _ Youb
Aim? c
Then have
Pfc at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.,
T
1
x
MOTORS TOR BOATS
16 H.P., Bore 31 inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
H.P..
Bore inch.
Stroke 4 inch.
4 H.P.,
Bore inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
Staunch, Sturdy, Dependable
2-Cycle—Working steadily all over the world for all purposes.
Roberts flarine Standard Type 4=16 h.p. Slow speed,
heavy duty type, 8 h.p. Roberts Famous Aeroplane and
Racing Motors. We are open for dealers for this territory ;
will be glad to furnish specifications and terms.
RO BERTS MOTORS
1600 Roberts Bldg\ Export Department Sandusky, Ohio, U.S-A.
CABLE ADDRESS: “ROMOCO.” [2
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Tu?
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
EVERY RIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
1
>
m
M
&
TENNIS
We carry a Fine Range of Materials
from Leading Makers.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
C. 8.8. Special !)/6
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 15/6
C. 8.8.. double strung .. 18/-
M.S. Haymarket 22/6
Havmarket. Selected . . 35/-
Ilaymarket, Kx. Special 37/6
Acre’s Handicap 16/6
-(Postage on Racket: X.S.W.
Ay re’s A 1
Ayre’s Double Central. .’
Ayre’s Champion
Ayre’s S.N.I) ’
Slazenger’s Renshaw...
Slazenger’s Demon
Slazenger’s Whitehonse..
Slazenger’s E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty
Slazenger's Stadium ...
9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
17/6
18/9
25/-
47/6
18/-
23/6
29/-
38/6
42/6
47/6
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/6 o/9
Dunlop Champion 1/11 212/6
. Each - Doz.
Ay re s Champion 1/ j j 22/fi
Slazeiiffer’.s Champ. J/J] 22/f*
(Postasre on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
STEAM-TARRED NETS.
Waterproof, full size 0/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Waterproof, wire head line . . 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/'-, 40/.
Nets, Presses, Markers, Tapes anti all Sundries
Stocked. Tennis Rackets Repaired and Re-strung.
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.-^
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Setof4
C. 8.8., real leather, special value g/g
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 9/g
C. 8.8., Fighting-, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 02 14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 02 36/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 02 24/-
HIGH-GRAIIE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 25/- 30/-
4 HE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Personally recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 60z...
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
27/6
35/-
YOUTHS’ GLOVES.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed
~ Best napa, „ „
~ Tan Leather, „ ~
~ very superior, ~ ~ ...!!!!!!!!”” j
» Laced, ~ ~ 12/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)'
Set of 4.
6/-
7/-
8/6
10/6
15/-
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d.) 7/6 each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 it 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3|oz. (Post 6d.)
18/6 pair
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with All
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
PUNCHING BALLS.
" e carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY’ , Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6, 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast 8/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY', Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARYIY', extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 40/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 9/6 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/- 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W.’ 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 2/9, 3/9, 4/9 pr. Mitts .... 2/6 P r -
Punching Platforms 35/-, 50/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 »
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/6, 4/6, 5/- »
FOR SMOKERS.
ZIG-ZAG CIGARETTE, TORACCO, highest-grade imported. Very mild. Will not
diy the thioat. Famed for its quality and puritv. loz. packet, with book of
cigarette papers 9( ] (post f ree ).
SENOIj TORACCO, highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma. Awarded 4 gold medals.
Dark or light. Plug and cut. 2oz. packet, Hd (post free); a. pound, 6/6 (post free^
° mi n eej ; a. pouna, o/o vpuac
cZV?M? Pie l,i 0 { oUr l illuBtrat€d S P° rts List ( B 1) and “Sure Catch ” Anglers
( 2). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
J
msTmuns greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
nm> TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St, also at
lYetvcasile l Brisbane


Beautiful Lizette Parkes Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Mis*
LIZETTE
PARKES
( from n
photo.).
'■
There is no Australian artiste who
has won greater recognition from so
large a section of the Australian pub-
lic than MISS LIZETTE PARKES.
Brilliant, versatile, charming, it is
hard to describe Miss Parkes. Head
what this popular New Discovery girl
writes:—
“Dear Sirs, —
“I am writing to tell you
what a strong advocate I am
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discov-
ery. It is the only tiling
that does me any good when
I have a bad cold or cough,
or when my throat feels sore
or strained. During the past
two years I have used it
on numerous occasions, and
always with the best results.
It is an excellent remedy,
and I never feel safe to start
on a trip without having a
bottle of it in my bag.
“With very best wishes
for ‘New Discovery,’
“I am, sincerely yours,
“ (Sgd.) LIZETTE PARKES.”
Not “How Cheap”
but “How Good”
is the watchword of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. When you buy medicine you
want something: that is effective, some tiling that will get to the root of the matter
at once, without in any way upsetting the system; and this is just exactly what Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery does. It acts directly upon the Throat, Chest and Lungs,
and in no way upsets the Digestive Organs, or in any way puts the system out of
tune. Other remedies may have been considered good when your grandparents
were children, and other remedies may be sold by the pint and at cheap prices, but
an up-to-date remedy for quality and effectiveness will be found in Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. The price is 1/6, and this size bottle is often
all fhat is necessary for two or three in the family. Larger bottles, holding two
and a half times the quantity are sold at 3/-, and these are the cheaper for large
families.
Remember, when yon are ill. it is quality not quantity that counts. Take a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery home with you to-night.
D? Sheldons
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
linin'
D
FOOD
LUNCHEON
(CM
1
2
JONES
;?=
O' A
v
CD
Plain Living and
High Thinking
were once a very strong cult. Vow most of us are
forced to plain living and “tall” thinking.
However, one of the compensations is
“ REX ”
Luncheon Cheese
which exactly meets all requirements of economy,
yet is so beautifully matured and flavoured as to
never become monotonous.
“Rex” Cheese, if a little is taken at each meal, as-
sists digestion. It is always a favorite for Suppers,
Afternoon Teas, Business Bunches, School Bunches,
etc.
ALL GROCERS SELL IT. INSIST ON GETTING
“REX” BRANS—BECAUSE IT EXCELS OTHERS.
“REX ”
CAMP PIE
Is another delicacy.
Serve with any kind of
Salad. It is cooked ready
to be eaten.
PACKED BY
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
CURERS OF “REX” HAMS & BACON,
PACKERS OF “REX”
PURE POOD PRODUCTS.
A Song of East and West.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
BLOWING down the forest road
AA’inds of all the Spring.
Tugging at the yellow load
Laughing wattle's swing.
Fairy dust of dreainings sowed
Past imagining.
Wealth of all the new and old,
Spoil of every sea,
Echoes of the spoken gold
Alined in A ready,
All the jewelled star-books hold
Trembled over me.
Blares a trumpet down the day,
Splits the world with sound.
Burnished spears in proud array
Flash the sunlight round.
Passing down the western way
Where the dreams are found.
Deep within the sunset’s heart
Fold on fold they lie ——
Lands where clearer rivers start
Under mountains high.
And the taller elm boughs part
As the gods go by.
There, for healing of all pain,
’Twelve on twelve they grow,
Purple fruits wine-ripe to stain
Parched lips breathing slow.
Hopes the desert dust made vain
Bloom to joy below.
Ride ! The track in moon and sun
Runs by ruins old.
AA’ho the heavy march may shun
While his heart is bold?
On ! The gateway must be won
To the fields of gold.
Dreams and dreams. And down the
years,
Proud with hope and boast,
Deaf to scorn and blind to fears,
Aloves the marching host,
Till the holy sign appears
Of the golden coast.
Eldorado shines in light,
Fair Utopia smiles.
New Jerusalem is bright,
Laid with jasper tiles.
But the road from AA’rong to Right
AA’inds ten thousand miles.
And along that pilgrim way
Little graves are set,
Graves at which the pilgrims pray
AA’ith a long regret.
Up! It is the crowning day!
Man shall conquer yet.
Blowing down the forest road
Gales of all the Spring
Toss the wattle’s yellow load
Till the branches sing
Songs that through the ages flowed,
Hailing man as king.
Who’s for New Jerusalem?
Earth is old and grey !
Who has seen the trailing hem
Of the larger day
Past the ancient graves of them
Fallen by the way?
Deep within the sunset’s heart
All the city lies.
Still the long processions start;
And the years grow wise
To the dreamer’s splend’d part
In hope’s enterprise.
Dreams! But I’ve a sweeter dream.
Eastward still I turn
AA'here the youngest star’s agleam
Ere the dawn-fires burn.
And the fresher breezes seem
Earth’s poor fears to spurn.
Eastward ! Eden lies that way,
Eden wild and free.
Girl, the wind across the bay
Laughs our joy to see—
Paradise that cannot stray—
God and Eve and me.
Blowing down the wattle glade,
AYinds of all the Spring
Stir the ribbon from the braid,
Teach the heart to sing
The old song of Alan and Alaid
Past imagining!
N.S.W.
DABID McKEE WIGHT.
In Admiralty and Divorce.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
lARRAKIN and Sophy, his new gin.
i settled down at Ivundi-Kundi. and
Hoppy, the old lame lubra —divorced
in the court of his Honor AA alter Rossiter.
under the spreading coolabah tree —lived
with Deera and another old gin two huts
away. Rut the record of the decree nisi was
still new when Hoppy. discovering that the
cruel Sophy—with all the black's _ Italian
wealth of pantomime —hobbled and imitated
her infirmity for the amusement of the
laughing tribe, descended one day on the
new Airs. Larrakin and beat her to a stand-
still.
Larrakin, returning from his stock-riding,
found his new lubra lying in the hut too sore
to move.
“Aly word, poor old Iloppy lame feller—
you strong foiler. Arrh, you cocktail I
thinkit, Sophy !”
“Oh. my! When I been better I killem
that one Hoppy—l been eatem !
“Then Alarmi been killem you, Sophy. I
been killem you, too. by cripes.”
He went away with a new respect for the
discarded one; even her infirmity could not
make her afraid of a younger, stronger
enemy. lie sought Rossiter. the station
manager, who was the Providence of all of
them, and explained the new trouble —
Sophy's cruel pantomime and Floppy’s pun-
ishment of her; his fears of too much plenty
rows, and his sorrow for IToppy.
“That one Hoppy too much jealous alonga
me,” he concluded, with a glitter of vanity in
his eyes. And Rossiter told him to send
Hoppy at once, and to bring Sophy as soon
as he could get her to move.
The lame lubra hobbled up the verandah
stairs, unrepentant and unafraid.
“Hoppy, you bad feller.”
•Marmi, that one Sophy walk about like
tins, one. All teller boy. all feller gin laugh
alongame plenty. Then I been beatem that
one. Alarnn—I no bad feller.”
I know. Larry, bring Sophy now.”
Larry supported the play-acting Sophv up
tlie stairs, and she over-acted her weakness
and her groans.
Sophy, shut up ! You no been fall down
—you strong feller, like it horse. Now.
Floppy, s pose this one make gammon like you
crooked leg, you tellum me, / beatem strong
teller. You no beatem, Sophy?”
“A’owi, Alarmi.”
"Sophy, s’pose you do that bad one again
1 beatem you alonga halter-rope. Then I
send you longa bush. Larry, 1 been makem
divorce longa you an’ longa Hoppy. No
more talkem altogether. Hoppy, Larry, no
been talkem. Sophy, Larry, you been
married. Now* you go. S’posem you givem
Sophy good feller hiding, Larry, more
better.
Larry took the frightened Sophy out of
the Presence. The lame gin followed them at
a distance, hobbling to the hut of the old
lubras; old, lonely and lame, with but one
goal in life, and that death. In her hut she
sat brooding over her wrongs ; and then life
suddenly became worth all its pain. She
heard the yells of Sophy, beaten for shamiim
Larrakin before the master. The master
heard them and laughed, for Larrakin had
been educated to beat a gin with a harmless
rope, not with a murderous waddy, and for
Sophy’s disease there were no medicines but
stripes and bruisings.
There was peace for a week. The old
lame gin turned her head away as she
passed Sophy or Sophy’s hut; but she looked
after Larry with the hunger of old habit in
her eyes.
And then Sophy made trouble again.
Alarmadoon, who had been married to Paddy
by the Very Relevant Walter liossiter, had
seen Sophy stop Paddy as he rode to the
horse paddock ; and Alarmadoon, who was so
hot-blooded that she hated clothing, became
hot-headed in haste, and beat the screaming
Sophy to her hut.
Larry confessed his weakness: “That one
Sophy been likeit kimbo” (the bone to pro-
duce sickness or death —even death itself)
“longa me. I givem that one hiding. Then
him been cry, ‘Stoppit, Larry—stopp it.’
Then him been very nice, I t’row him away
rope—no beatem any more. By cripes, byem
bye that one altogether bad one—ylaughem
longa Paddy—alonga Jerry—gammon' long)
poor old IToppy! Sopliy no been bad.
Alarmi —he altogether forgetem been good,
that one. I think that one Sophy forehead
go away.”
Rossiter nodded understandingly. Sophy’s
quick penitence and sudden relapses into
lawlessness gave her the color of insanity.
But it was only the insanity of too mud
life; the irresponsibility of the wind and tin
madness of a joyous puppy always in
trouble and running into the bush al’lei
every flying bird.
“What we do, Larry?”
“Sophy all right when me no been awr>
S'posem I go away one day, Sophy forehe
go away that time. Afore better catch'. >.
work. Too much tucker —no work.”
“Yes! Work alone, eh? Who been
cleanem this one house now?”
“Hoppy an’ Alarmadoon.”
“All right. You sendem Sophy now. I
givem work. Tellem Hoppy an’ Alarmadoon
no been wantem.”
Later in the day 1 loppy came to ask the
reason of the insult of her discharge, and the
explanation didn’t pacify her. She could
hear the voice of Sophy within, singing to
herself as she swept the dust into the middle
of a room and disposed of it by sweeping it
under the table or a bed —not for laziness,
because she loved occupation, but in igno-
rance. While Hoppy pleaded that the last
shred of dignity should not be stripped from
her, Sophy sang within of a child eating ji
snake, and of pappa seed under a koolamon.
“Alarmi,” said Hoppy again. “Sophy
gotte'm all feller. I close up die altogether.”
“ Koopa-Kodpa oga biba paroo, likkara
ena purina.” chanted Sophy, telling of the
old man’s boomerang which flies across the
sky.
“Alarmi, I been crooked inside altogether.
Alarmi,” sobbed the lame gin.
“All right, Hoppy ! I wantem make tha t
one Sophy work. Altogether lazy, that one.”
She brightened at the depreciation of her
enemy. “Yowi, . Alarmi —that one alto-
gether dam’ ’toopid feller.”
“Yowi. floppy ! She been cleanem house
after breakfast: then you been boss all
afternoon. S’pose you no see-um clean feller,
then you finishem more better.”
The appointment of overseer of her enemy
brought her happiness; she had felt that
there was no place for her in the world, and
she departed content and younger for the
moment by ten years.
Sophy, straddling the broom as a horse,
cantered down the passage, and seeing the
master seated by the verandah stairs, un-
straddled and dropped the folds of her calico
skirt. She came to him with a demureness
that was sly.
“I been sweepem, master.”
“All right. Sophy.” (He puzzled for a
moment to find new work for this devil of
energy whose hands were idle.) “Cleanem
all feller boots?”
“Yowi. Alarmi.”
His sleeves were rolled to the shoulder,
and his great forearm attracted her. She
ran her hand lightly down his arm and then
lifted her fingers to her lips. Rossiter
started —saw that evil desire in her eyes,
and menacingly fixed her gaze with his own.
“A’ou likem tuekout longa white man. eh?”
She was so startled that she told the
truth. “Yowi, Alarmi, s’posem you dead, been
likem tuekout.”
“Out of this, you black rat—out!”
He took the whip that hung on the newel
of the stairs. Sophy, uttering shrill screams
that brought the gins chattering from their
huts, dropped the broom and ran. and Rossi-
ter chased the cannibal to her hut, making
energetic whip-play all the way.
Larry and Baddy and Jerry returned that
night to find the new pantomime in full
swing, floppy grotesquely imitating the
whip action of Rossiter. while Alarmadoon
played Sophy and revolved shrieking around
(Continued on next page.)


ORKERS’ ACCIDENTS
KEEP ZAM-BUK ALWAYS HANDY FCR BRUISES, ||
CUTS, OPEN, FESTERING & POISONED WOUNDS, etc.
CARPENTERS, bricklayers, mechanics, miners, gar-
deners, painters, laborers—in fact, all classes of
workers—stand in daily need of Zam-Buk’s sooth-
ing and healing aid. A cut, bruise, knock or pinch
may not seem of much account when the first pain
has passed away, but unless the injured place is
dressed with Zam-Buk there remains the great
danger that dirt and disease germs will get into the
wound and set up inflammation, festering, blood-
poison or skin disease, that may mean
months of suffering and compulsory idle-
ness. The germ of the dreaded lockjaw
harbors in dirt, and thus the simplest
injury often has fatal results. If, how =
ever, Zam-Buk is at once smeared over a
cut or bruise, the balm’s pure herbal
juices soothe the pain, fortify the injury
against germ attacks, and ensure rapid
and perfect healing. As an insurance
against festering and poisoned wounds,
eczema and ulcers, Zam-Buk is the
workers’ best friend. A pot of this
powerful germicide and healer should
always be kept handy in cupboard, tool-
bag or pocket.
f
SCALDS AND BURNS,
“ As I am a cook by profession,” says
Mr. S. Balcoinbe, of Holloway Hoad,
Mitcheltown, Wellington, N.Z., ” and
constantly engaged over a fire. I am
very liable to receive burns and scalds.
A few days ago I had the misfortune to
have my hand and wrist scalded with
boiling fat. Having Zam-Buk by me I
at once applied the balm. The heat and
inflammation were at once banished, and
the wounds were spothed. Before night
nearly all traces of the scalds had dis-
appeared. I have always used Zam-Buk
for cuts and sores, and have no hesitation
in pronouncing it a first-class prepara-
tion, which I, for one, will never be
without.”
A COACHBUILDFR’S INJURIES.
“While following my occupation,”
says Mr. T. Mansell, a coaehbuilder, of
Keig Street, Newtown, Sydney, “lam
constantly knocking the skin off my
hands and cutting my fingers. These
wounds fester and take some consider-
able time to heal, although all sorts of
household remedies have been tried.
Seeing Zain-Buk advertised, I procured
a pot. and am pleased to say that in
Zam-Buk I found just the balm I
required. Its healing action was prompt,
and where it was applied no festering
followed. I strongly recommend Zam-
Buk as an invaluable healing and anti-
septic balm.”
&
s
|4d3 SIINV ■ 9NIHIOOS ’ 9Wl**^*
0,
■* Slip the
Strop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
AutoSirop
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk: and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade renewals, and the time and trouble in
c.eaning which every other safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—The word “VALET” on RAZORS.
'TROPS and HLADES indicates the genuine product of the
A otoStrop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., til New Oxford Street,
■■■•■■■■>% London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compris-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safetyrazor, firstquality
‘Valet’’ horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
“Valet" blades, the
whole n handrome
leather - covered or
nickel case, lined 99 1C
velvet and satin"*'/''
■ ; V v:
the huts to the strokes of an imaginary
whip. They elaborated it into a dance,
using the old woman’s hut for a dukka-
dukka, or green-room for the actors. Larry
discovered the reason for the performance,
and that night Sophy had a real old-
fashioned bush hiding. Her prayers availed
nothing; Larry was weary when he threw
the rope down and gasped : “You likem tuck-
out alonga Marmi? My word, next time I
killem head belonga you alonga waddy.”
Then he went to the manager’s house to
ask pardon for his wayward and cannibal
responsibility.
“Marmi, I been good feller; that one
Sophy bad, my word. I thinkit lizard run
away between my legs.”
Rossiter smiled sympathetically at this
superstition as a bringer of bad luck.
“I thinkit that one Sophy forehead go
away altogether. No good that one. S’pose
h in belonga walkabout blackfeller, that one
-walk about been killem altogether, takem
kidney fat—greasein sipear.”
"She’ll settle down if you give her a hid-
ing. Larry.”
L been beatem altogether —plenty tired,
mv word ! Too much tuckout that one —too
much flour, too much beef, too much tehugar
altogether, Marmi.”
“All lubra better alonga bush, Larry.”
“My word! One time when I been walk-
about. floppy good feller —work plenty,
catchem snake, catchein frog, gettem pappa
seed. Then him gettem tuckout, makem
sleep plenty, not been yabber that time.
Now too much tuckout —yabber. yabber, jaw,
jaw, likeit leather-head. S’posen that one
Sophy work alonga bush, plenty tired, no
been talk plenty. Too much tuckout no good.”
Rossiter laughed at Larrakiu’s discovery
that few people are unspoiled by prosperity.
He thought of the lazy women of the cities
going down the labent way from idleness to
liceuse, and said: “White Mary all the
same, Larry. What we do alonga that one
Sophy ?”
“Marmi, I been tired alonga that one
Sophy. Poor old floppy been cry alonga me.
More better marry ’em Hoppy now.”
“All right! S’posem they like, you bring.”
floppy came along chirpily, Sophy sore
and sulky from her beating.
“Now, then, Larry,” said his Honor in
Admiralty and Divorce, “you no wantem
Sophy?”
"No, Marmi, I been tired that one. Him
wantem tuckout alonga man. Too much
dam’ ’toopid feller.”
“All right. Sophy, you wantem Larry ?
“No, my word. No good that one. Him
likeit eorella.”
“She called you a bandicoot, Larry. You
don’t want him. Sophy?”
“No, no! f givet that one tarembola.”
“S’posem you givein kick, you get "nother
fellow hiding, Sophy. Now you altogether
divorced.”
“My word, 1 likeit daporse,’ said the
irreconcilable Sophy.
“Shut up, Sophy! Now, Larry, you no
talkem Sophy, no been look longa Sophy,
altogether finish.”
“Yowi. Marmi.”
“Sophy, you no been lookem Larry, no
been talkem Larry, no been talkem Hoppy,
altogether finish.”
“My word ! I”— —
“That’ll do, shut up! Now, Larry, you
want that one floppy?”
“Yowi, Marmi.”
“Hoppy, you wantem marry that one
Larry?” ‘
“Yowi, Marini.”
“All right. Now, floppy, Larry is your
Benjamin ; Larry, floppy lubra belonga you
—shake hands. Sophy, you divorced —alto-
gether finish.”
Larry went away with his bride, and
Sophy, following at a distance to the old
women’s hut, which was now her lodging,
relieved her feelings by bursting into shrill
and artificial laughter at intervals, after
saying with as much bitterness as if she
were a white woman, “Daporse, by cripes, I
been likem that one. That one bandicoot
Larry takeit old-feller woman —walk likeit
crab.” . ,
She imitated Hoppy’s pace with great
fidelity, but there was no punishment to
follow. Sophy realised that she had lost
the privilege of possessing a man to beat only
her; and in the face of that tragedy was
silent. For all her bravado in the Divorce
Court she felt the loss of Larrakin more
than seemed possible to her mercurial
nature, and avoided the stockman and his
reinstated lubra more than either the spirit
or the* letter of his Honor’s judgment
demanded. ,
After a week or two Hoppy felt secure in
her position, and having little to do waxed
saucy again, and “yabbered” like those
raucous javs, the leatherheads, or, as bush-
men call them, the Twelve Apostles, because
they preach everlastingly in flocks of a dozen.
Her yabber drove Larrakin forth one even-
ing • "and he saw Sophy, thinner than her
usual habit, looking out of her liut. In
obedience to the law. lie turned his head
awav and walked on. But she followed him,
pleading; and Larrakin stopped, and lis-
tened, and was lost.
Followed discovery by Hoppy, and more
yabber, and three days of recrimination and
refusal to listen to explanations. Then a
meeting with Sophy by design, and next
morning the triangle appealed to both the
secular and the ecclesiastical arms.
“Marmi,” said Larrakin, standing with the
once-divorced at his left hand, and the twice-
divorced at his right, “altogether no good
this one.”
"Now! I tell you that one time you takem
Hoppy back, altogether finish.”
“Marmi, this one poor feller Sophy cry
alonga me all the time. This one Hoppy
yabber, yabber, jaw, jaw all the time. This
poor feller Sophy him been eryem alonga me
—1 been sorry.”
“Yes, and then you talk, and that starts
the flirtation ; and then you make me plenty
tired altogether.”
“Marmi, this-a one Sophy been catchem
little-feller baby byemby.”
“You catchem, Sophy?”
She lifted the big, black, mysterious velvet
glances of her eyes to his face, and said in
quiet hope:
“Yowi, marmi—catchem byemby after
plenty-feller moon.”
“That’s different. Y'ou wantem finish
alonga Larry, Hoppy?”
The old gin raised her arms in passion,
controlled herself silently, and let her arms
fall again in weariness and resignation.
“Yowi, marmi, more better. Larry been
likem Sophy—Sophy been catchem little-
feller baby. I no been catchem. I been old
feller. More better go. I been plenty tired.
Give Larry daporse.”
“All right. Now this is for keeps. Larry,
Hoppv. you been divorced now —altogether
finish. Shake hands, now finish. Sophy,
shake hands alonga Larry. No been look
alonga floppy any more, Larry. Sophy,
Larry your Benjamin. Larry, Sophy be-
longa you altogether. Now, finish!”
The judge-parson-registrar congratulated
himself on finality as the moons of Sophy’s
baby waned and dwindled. The “finish”
seemed permanent, when, a week after the
birth of Larry’s son, Hoppy, unable to
restrain her curiosity for another hour, came
to Larry’s hut, and all her kindly hopes were
paid with welcome. So all day and every
day she was established there tending the
child, singing to him of how the wild cat
became spotted; of the doctor’s sister who
grinds the pappa seeds when men die; of
the old gins cutting grass to make nets
while people sleep; and of the man who
killed his father, and after he swam the
river greased himself with the kiciney fat.
Sophy" looked on complacently, feeling her
greatness enhanced by this submission of her
rival, until at last she grew to oppressing
and imposing on Hoppy through her affec-
tion for Larry’s child. But Larry was
grateful; habit made him rejoice at seeing
again the old Hoppy, and with all her kind-
ness revived, because she had something that
called for her protection.
At four months Larry’s son was a pot-
bellied, merry child, with his father’s big
frame and the great lustrous eyes of his
mother. Larry had named him Walla, the
nearest he could get to Rossiter’s first name ;
but observation strengthened Hoppy’s con-
ventional clinging to old ways. Walla tried
to crawl on all fours, and after a minute
fell on his breast in the attitude of swim*
ming; wherefore Hoppy named him Pookoo-
too, which means a small ant crawling, and
Ootoo, which is a little fish skimming the
water surface. The child was more inter-
ested in Hoppy than his mother, though
cupboard love made the absence of Sophy
a tragedy. Very early Hoppy taught him
generosity, with the ancient formula, giving
the child something and taking it back gently
from the little black fingers that clutched it,
with the words: “Give to him, baby ! Give
to them, baby ! Give to me, baby! Give to
all, baby !”
Once she raced at a speed that made light
of her dislocated hip to Rossiter’s house at
three in the morning to ask him to “bringit
salts quick feller —that one Pookootoo close
up die.”
Rossiter found that the child had a touch
of pleurisy, and Hoppy returned with him
to the medicine chest. When he gave her
the medicine she fawned on him as a shy
dog might have done and told him “that
one Sophy no good—baby cry daytime, him
stop out: baby cry when him dark night—
that one Sophy sleep plenty.”
Once secure with the new title of
Larrakin’s over-fondness for the child to
confirm her in her ownership of Larry as
her Benjamin, the careless temperament of
Sophy found new vagaries. Her latest
accomplishment was euchre —a peculiar sort
of euchre with an imperfect pack of cards.
She played euchre with the old lubras until
the young ones joined the card-party, and
then she shamelessly abandoned the old gins
and played with the young ones —shrill
games with aboriginal curses and wild
shrieks of rage whenever a player blundered.
She left Walla or Pookootoo for hours while
the game proceeded, and the child, whose
skin looked moi’e and more like the outside
of a brilliantly polished boot, between whiles
of sucking his fist, yelled for the refreshment
which was not.
Larrakin found Hoppy often waiting, and
tracking Sophy to the gambling-school under
the bauliinia brought her by the neck to the
hut and flung her at her duty.
One afternoon, when there was no Larry
to hunt and round up the irresponsible
mother, Hoppy nursed and walked to and
fro with the hungry child for an hour, and
then her patience collapsed utterly. She
left Pookootoo with another woman and
sought the temperamental Sophy, finding her
at last swimming in the bogey hole with
young lubras and children.
“You come quick feller,” cried Hoppy.
“Baby close up die.”
Sophy obeyed leisurely. . She suspected her
predecessor and she was wise, but not wise
enough. As she stood naked but for the
skirt in which her head and arms w r ere
hidden, Hoppy drew from behind her a gum
switch and beat grievously. Sophy
shrieked.and struggled into the skirt that at
last fell to below her knees; then she saw
Hoppy, who continued the beating, and
knowing that at last mercy was dried up.
she ran to the hut begging pity, and receiv-
ing blows as substitutes. In the hut, quiver-
ing with nain, she took the child; and
Hoppy. with the switch held as a sword,
stood over her until Pookootoo was full.
When Larry returned, Sophy, showing
him the stripes of her beating, called for
vengeance, and Larry cross-examined her as
to reasons, concluding with the statement
that any lady who neglected her baby
deserved a similar hiding every day.
In the circumstances, Walter Rossiter
expected developments quickly, and they
arrived. The day after the beating Larry
and Hoppy came to Holy Church at the foot
of the verandah stairs.
“Marmi, more better I been Benjamin
alonga Hoppy.”
“But where’s Sophy? More better divorce
that one first time.”
“Marmi, that one been daporse himself.
That one Sophy run away alonga bush. I
been wantem Hoppy mindem baby.”
“All right, shake hands, now you married.
No more look alonga Sophy—altogether
finish.”
The self-divorced Sophy had torn up the
calico gown of the station to bind her broken
skin. For the rest she fled naked to the
often uncomfortable pleasures of pursuing
food in liberty, and the always-new discovery
that Temperament is a snare.
“Daporse!” said Sophy as she ran.
"Daporse ! Good feller that one !”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
For All Boats
CalUe 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Lights
Caille 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
Caille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7'a 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete
line of marine
motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails glad|y mailed
on request. When
Writing, please
state which type of
e n gin e interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents ;
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
51-53 Pruitt Street, Sydney; 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,’ 1 and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. END, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
NP
MILLER'-'
W. E
"MILLER”
Lighting Fixtures and Lamps
of all descriptions—Electric, Gas anc
Oil varieties can be obtained through-
out Australia
and New Zea-
land at moder-
ate prices.
The "Miller”
quality is known
the World over
and the name
stands for the BEST in all lamp ware.
Do not fail to look over the
"Miller ” line,—it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
HHKMM
No. 0522
m
%
S!
ffi
m
V:
J 53
l
/
x Laughing Eyes /
are tFje fjall mark of Fjealtlj.
take
BeechamS Pills
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
TIIE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium, win without
lifting a hand?
Hi
****
SW
swsss
of a/l Chemists
Horlick's is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
pasteurised.*?
Horlick's will refresh you more than anything
else you can take, and will assist nature to
build bone, nerve and cnuscle.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK _
Sample “will be sent on receipt
of 2d. in stamps.—“ Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street.
Sydney, N.S.W.
9/y it at
the Soda fountain*
The BEST-MADE ENGINE in the WORLD
would work inefficiently if its Sparking Plugs were unsatisfactory.
lodgS
Our Sparking Plugs
are the product of the
Best English and
American Manufacturers
And we Guarantee Satisfaction.
r:
LODGE Sparking Plugs, in Metric, Jin., J x 18, A.L.A.M., 5 - each.
~ ~ for “Fords,” 5/- each.
SPHINX „ 3 point in Metric, ard Sin., 3/3 each.
„ „ „ „ in J x 18, 3/9 ca.; 1 point, Metric, 3/- ea.
CHAMPION Sparking Plugs, “Pord X,” 3/3 ea.; Hy. Duty, 3/3 ea.; Hy. Stone, 5/- ea. in
Metric, Sin. | x 18.
“Reliance,” Sparks in Water, 5/6 ea.; Platinum Points, 6/6 ea.
“No. 1,” 3/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Extended,” 3/3 ea.
No. 1. Mica, 3/9; “Giant” Mica, 5/-; for Metz, 3/3 ea.
“Vesuvius” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz, 4/6; Ordinary, 4/6.
REFLEX
MOSLER
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST. SPECIAL PRICES FOR QUANTITIES.
Robert G. Swan O. Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. [2


NGROVTTE
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAXGKO V J .T3 ’ Ravvhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred lo by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv bv
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowioi, v
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advloe and Price List on application.
The Mine Manager’s Friend.
The Celebrated “An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Mining Steel.
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
\W
Supplied
in OCTAGON and
CRUCIFORM SOLID SECTIONS,
ROUND HOLLOW SECTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Chemicals
Best Prices from Stock or Indent
Soda Ash
Caustic Soda
Sulphide of Sodium
Alum
Sulphate Alumina
Borax
Hypo Soda
Naphthaline
Bicarb Soda
Bichromate Soda
Carbolic
etc., etc.
British Aniline Dyes.
JAMES HARDIE 8 CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Little Collins Street, Melbourne. [3
fifi
99
(HIGH PRESSURE]
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Eflicient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS "REGRINDING VALVE,"
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT."
a m a
Ltd.. Alliance B
m
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
PERMASITE
ss
ALL AU
■; , _ .• m
lAN PROD
PAINTS
HIGH
GRADE
(Dry Color's
Oxides
Ochres
Whiting.
VARLINE
GLUE
PERMASITE IYIANUFACTU
9 QUEEN STREET, MEL
a co.
SCRUTTON’S for
Everything Engineering.
Modern High-speed Machine Toots
Woodworking Machinery
Steam and Oil Engines
Engineers’ Small Tools & Accessories .
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST SUPPLY HOUSE.
V
«
■
161 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
p-
C
Ts
O
D
*
ft
r
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing: with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile arid Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys east-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-: i-lb., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS.
NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
Oast-iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Vidaria,
m
ft
DELCO-LIGHT-
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND-
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
PP'PBANE.
B
a
MORSE
Type “Z”
1917
WORKS OX KEROSENE . . .
STARTS ON PETROL
THROTTLE GOVERNED
GEAR-DRIVEN MAGNETO .
MECHANICAL SPARK PLUG
SPEED REGULATOR
OUR PRICES
FEATURES —
which means Fuel Economy. r . .
which means Quick Start —No Waiting,
which means Uniform Speed—No “Cut Out.”
Which means Hot Spark—Nothing Better,
which means Fewer Spark Plug Troubles,
which means the Speed You Want,
which mean Best Engine Value ever offered.
Sole Agents
ASK FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG
E & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
MODERN SANITATION demands the DESTRUCTION of all Refuse as the
only means of eliminating that growing peril, the Fly Pest.
The “Guthridg” Destructor
provides the easiest and cheapest means for doing this.
Upwards of 100 “Guthridg” Garbage Destructors sold in New South Wales alone for State Schools, Institutions,
Business Premises, Dwellings, etc.
MANUFACTURED
ONLY BY
No matter what is burnt this Destructor is Odorless.
N. Guthridge Ltd.,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
City Office : Bulldintf, 350
am
W
m
CARB
DtiSTRUCTO
luff rt
Street
