

—THE SPIRIT SUPER
R. G. WATKINS «&£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
€
0
S
V
Cldi/once, cAicmeiL-
ON ALL CLASSES oT SECURITY /J
TRADE BILES DISCOUNTED. *
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N. S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.6.1.C? LTP
HEAD OmCE: 74 CASTLE REAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building,
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR
SO- PAGE BOOK.
OSCILLATING
WALL
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEYj
'gold medal
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
BEDS
For In- and Out-door Sleeping.
American Wail Bed
380 George Street, near G.P.0.,
Co.
Sydne
“A Great Record!”
HUTTON’S
'—- -“PINEAPPLE * brand
45 YEARS THE BEST
Hams & Bacon
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is l-ecommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious hnd invigorating for the
digestive organs.
F°r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
toil,"
. w
m
m
m
The Big Chief La Field Type W Oil Engines
Represent the Pick of America’s Productions. Simple, Economical and Always Reliable.
Any Schoolboy can handle these Engines. Hundreds in daily use all over Australia.
EVERY ENGINE THOROUGHLY TESTED BEFORE LEAVING OUR WORKS.
CASH OR EASY TERMS . Catalogs Free. CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & GO. LTD.
THE ENGINEERS’ DEPOT.
161 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free copy of “The Referee,” a
booklet containing much useful and
instructive information.
w**
Supplied to the Naval and
Military Authorities of
Great Britain and Australia.
WHITE HORS
ORME, KEIGWIN f£b CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Agents
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PROPY. LTD.
PUMPS FOR EVERY SERVICE.
QPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense
Freshness to the
of Clean
; Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Desicacy of
the Fresh Flowers,
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vd. 38. —N0. 1973.]
[Thursday, December 6, 1917
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


£5O FOR AN AUSTRALIAN PHOTO-PLAY.
A well-known moving-picture-producing firm offers
a prize of £5O (fifty pounds) for the best Australian
story suitable for cinematograph production.
The entries will be judged, firstly, by a leading
literary critic, who will award points for style ana
construction. Secondly, by a leading advertising
expert, who will award points from an advertising
possibility point of view, with special consideration
of the title. Thirdly, by a well-known film-proaucer,
who will award his points from the photographic and
situation angle. The highest aggregate of points to
be declared the winner.
CONDITIONS: . .
(1) The winning story, together with all rights oi
publication and production, to become the pro-
perty of the promoters.
(2) The promoters reserve the right to purchase aiy
other entry at a price to be mutually agree
upon between them and the author. , .
(3) The theme of the stories must be dramatic, aea -
ing with Australian life and problems,. and intro-
ducing Australian types in an Australian setting.
(4) The form should be that of a short-story, witn-
out photo-play, technicalities.
(5) Sufficient stamps must be enclosed in each man
script to ensure its return; but no responsibility
is taken. . . ,
Manuscripts, addressed “Scenario Competition, c I
214 George Street, Sydney, N.5.W.,” will be recei
up to February 28, 1918, when the entries close.
The result will be announced in The Bulletin
soon as possible after judging is completed, ana t
winning story produced as a moving picture ot
highest ejass.
IS THE DOCTOR’S ORDER.
His advice should .-be a pleasure to obey, because inferior Gin threatens to
knock your nerves sky-high. All Doctors recommend Gilbev’s Drv Gin,
because they honestly know* it is a spirit of quality to make you feel healthier.
GILBEY*S DRY GIN THE APPRECIATED GIN.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY, Sole Agent*
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
Od. A .TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
•m GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H.<
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney,
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward 9d. In stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SALISBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
Wells’s Latest Bishop
11. G. Wells has contrived to write a novel
about a bishop without making him funny.
The temptation must have been tremendous.
Be even clothes ids bishop in purple
pyjamas, and shows us;him in bed, with his
cassock of purple and his black doeskin
breeches, still warmly lined with their pants,
his black hose and his sash lying untidily on
the episcopal bedroom floor. For 11. G.
Wells is writing not about the bishop’s apron
but his soul —and his stomach. Wells is the
first novelist to consider the stomach of his
heroes. So much depends upon the diges-
tion! In The Soul of a Bishop (Cassell, per
Dy mock’s Library) the bishop’s doubts
about Christianity synchronise with his in-
somnia ; and his break with the Church is
made under the influence of a drug. So even
religion depends upon the body.
It all began with “following the King,”
and knocking off alcohol and tobacco
deranged his digestion; he ached for an
Egyptian cigarette: his nerves and his soul
got out of gear. Neurasthenia —insomnia —
doubt! He felt—or his nerves felt —that the
Church “was a tolerated thing, just as some-
times he had felt that the Crown was a
tolerated thing. He, too, was a tolerated
thing, a curious survival. . . .The Church was
no Levite to pass by on the other side away
from the struggles and wrongs of the social
conflict. It had no right when the children
asked for the bread of life to offer them
Gothic stone.”
Then came the Avar. “Black and evil thing
as the war was, it was at any rate a great
thing; it did this much for countless minds
that for the first time they realised the epic
quality of history and their own relationship
to the destinies of the race. The flimsy roof
under which we had been living our lives of
comedy fell and shattered the floor under our
feet; we saw the stars above and the abyss
below. We perceived that life was insecure
■ and adventurous, part of one vast adventure
, in space and time.” And the war didn’t want
the bishop—had no use for bishops. “Of
course, the Church ought to be controlling
this great storm, the greatest storm of war
that had ever stirred mankind. It ought to
be standing fearlessly between the com-
batants. .. .with the cross of Christ uplifted.
....Instead it kept a long way from the
fighting, tucked up its vestments, and was
rolling its local tubs quite briskly.”
J*
Then the bishop, whose insomnia kept on
getting worse, decided to ask a friendly
doctor to give him a dispensation to smoke
—on the grounds of health, of course. Unfor-
tunately, that doctor was out, and the bishop
fell into the hands of his locum tenens.
Extraordinary chap, that locum! And the
curious drug he gave the bishop. It made
him feel intoxicated, and gave him visions
in which he interviewed the • Angel of God,
and ultimately communed with God Himself
—“One who is greater than the earth and
stars and yet no greater than a man.” The
bishop takes his troubles to a fellow bishop,
who pleads for compromise. This older
bishop remarks: “Where’s Hell now? Eighty
years ago it warned the whole Church. It
was—as some- atheist or other put it the
other day—the central heating of the soul
.. . .Ask yourself, whither would you g 0?...
You wouldn’t do anything. The Church
would go on; everything else would go on.
Only you would be lost iu the outer wilder-
ness.” It was at a confirmation service that
the crash came. And it came just after the
bishop had had another go at the wonderful
drug. The bishop felt inspired; it seemed
to him that the Angel of God stood beside
him and gave him understanding. His ad-
dress astonished that congregation: the sub-
stance of it is to he found in God,
the Invisible King. In fact, Wells’s earlier
book may be regarded as the Bible of the
Bishop’s soul.
“Do not imagine,” lie tells his congrega-
tion and his scandalised clergy, “because yon
are gathered in this queer ly-beautifnl old
building to-day, because I preside here in this
odd raiment of an odder compromise, be-
cause you see about you in colored glass and
carven stone the emblems of much vain dis-
putation, that thereby you cut yourselves
off and come apart from the great world of
faith, Catholic, Islamic, Brahministic,
Buddhistic, that grows now to a common
consciousness of the near Advent of God our
King. . . .This simple universalism was also
the teaching of Christ.”
He leaves the Church ; he doffs his gaiters ;
then the question arises, what is he to do?
He finds that he and his large family—all
girls—must live on a small income, crowded
in a bleak little house in London. At first
through the hero-worship of the delightful
fool, Lady Sunderbund, whose affectations,
however,, rather weary us. the bishop sees
himself as the prophet of a new religion,
preaching in the most extraordinary of
modern temples. But he resists that tempta-
tion. He finds, too, that his belief in his
new God' is a curiously fluctuating quality.
At times to him God “was something as
unsubstantial as the Binomial Theorem.”
And he is unable to procure any more of
the wonderful drug. He comes to this satis-
fying conclusion: “There can he no such
thing as a continuous living presence of
God in our lives. There is no permanent
exaltation of belief. One cannot keep
actively believing in and realising God round
all the 24 hours any more than one can keep
awqke through the whole cycle of night and
day, day after day.- If it were possible so
to apprehend God without cessation, life
would dissolve iu religious ecstasy. We
must get along by remembering our moments
of assurance.”
And that grandiose conception of preach-
ing the new God to immense multitudes fails
before the ex-bishop’s conviction that God
has no need of organised priests at all.
“Wasn’t that just what had been the matter
with religion for the last 3000 years?....
Jesus, for example, gave man neither a theo-
logy nor a church organisation; his sacra-
ment was an innocent feast of memorial;
but the fearful, limited, imitative men he
left to carry on his work speedily restored
all these three abominations of the anti-
quated religion, theology, priest and sacri-
fice.... Any chapel was impossible. It is
just this specialisation that has been the
trouble with religion. It is just this ten-
dency to make it the business of a special
sort of man, in a special sort of building,
on a special day.”
He is a very human bishop, and we leave
him at rather a loose end. For, after all,
what is the value of an ex-bishop on the
labor market? The book is an interesting
book—with bleak exegetical patches—and
the bishop’s relations with his fellow-men and
—especially—his fellow-women are delight-
fully real. It is not a tract, but a brightly-
written story of modern life, the sort of
novel that is supposed to be the special pro-
vince of The Earnest Reader. But The
Earnest Reader will get some healthy shocks.
Australian Fiction
Henry Handel Richardson, author of The
Fortunes of Richard Mahony (Heinemann),
is hereby awarded the prize for long-winded-
ness. This is an ambitious novel, evidently
only the first part of a triology entitled Aus-
tralia Felix. The author’s previous books
were Maurice Guest and The Getting of
Wisdom. Not only does the author write
400 closely-printed pages about his hero, but
he has put into these pages the minimum of
action. And not only is his hero dull, but
most of the other characters are duller. Yet
one reads on: the scene and the period are
interesting, and from the author’s pedestrian
descriptive passages and studies of character
the reader gets the illusion of reality and
life.
The theme of the story is more than
Richard Mahony’s life; it is the growth of
Ballarat from a rude mining- town ship to a
modern city. The book opens with a raid
by the police upon the miners in search of
those who had not acquired licenses, the
grievance that led to the Eureka rebellion.
This is well described in the matter-of-fact
manner of an impartial eye-witness. Indeed
the whole book bears the impress of the
autobiography of a rather dull person. Yet
the pictures seem true.'
“The men at the windlasses spat into their
horny palms and bent to the crank: they
paused only to pass the back of a hand over
a sweaty forehead, or to drain a nose
between two fingers. The barrow-drivers
shovelled their loads, the bones of their fore-
arms standing out like ribs. Beside the
pools, the puddlers chopped with their
shovels; some even stood in the tubs, and
worked the earth with their feet. The
cradlers, eternally rocking with one hand,
held a long stick in the other, with which
to break up any clods a careless puddler
might have deposited in the hopper. Behind
these came the great army of fossickers,
washers of surface-dirt, equipped with kuives
and tin dishes, and content if they could wash
out lialf-a-pennyweight to the dish. At their
heels, still others, who treated the tailings
they threw away. And, among these last
was a sprinkling of women, more than one
with,an infant sucking at her breast. With-
drawn into a group for themselves worked a
body of Chinese, in loose blue blouses, floppy
blue leg-bags, and huge conical straw hats.
They, too, fossicked and re-washed, using, in
the process, extravagant quantities of water.”
Such a picture bears the imprint of a
memory accurately registered in a matter-of-
fact brain. There are equally prosaic pic-
tures of Melbourne of the early days, a Mel-
bourne in deshabille, of Collins-street, “where
fashionable shops, two storeys high, stood
next tiny, dilapidated weatherboards, that
had known but a single coat of paint,” and
of the theatre, where “if none of the actors
happened to be drunk, a fair proportion of
the audience was sure to be.” Richard
Mahony is a dull dog, upright but unenter-
prising, wooing and winning his demure,
prunella-shoed Polly with a matter-of-fact
determination, and treating her throughout
their married life with true Early-Victorian
detachment. An Irish doctor, he first set up
a stors on the diggings. That failing, he
took up his old profession. For years it
was a hard struggle; hut a liifcky specula-
tion enabled him to build up a big practice.
He built the first brick building in Ballarat
And a daring relative of his wife’s brought
the first set of “the hoops” from Melbourne
The women were mightily interested. Polly,
as usual, was severely practical: “But, Zara,
don’t y0u.... I mean... .aren’t they very
draughty?” Zara hotly denied this; and
the ladies "agreed that there was much to
be said in favor, of the appliance, over and
above its novelty. Especially would it be
welcome at those times when But here
the speakers dropped into woman’s mysteri-
ous code of nods and signs; while Zara, turn-
ing modestly away, pretended to count the
stitches in a crochet antimacassar.” How
delightfully does the author suggest that dis-
tant era! So Richard Mahony grows middle-
aged ; and the history of all his friends and
all his wife’s relatives is related with an
almost maddening deliberation. And as
Richard grows older his character deterio-
rates: his wife begins to find him a trial,
but she sticks to this self-contained, dull,
honest husband to the end. For he never
felt himself at home in this strange land of
Australia: he had not the adaptability to
identify himself with his new home. And
we leave him starting out, a wearied, dis-
illusioned, oldish man, on a mad adventure,
determined to make a new start in England
—an adventure that seems doomed to failure.
And that is merely the end or Book I.
Jt
Paying Guests (Lothian; 45.) is slighter
in construction than the other Australian
novels of Tarella Quin (Mrs. Daskein).
Her local color, an Outback station in Vic-
toria, is unobtrusively true, as usual; but
she seems to have bothered less over plot and
character-drawing. The novel is exactly
what its title says: the daughter of the
owner of a backblocks run, in order to raise
some money, advertises for paying guests.
They arrive—to find that the rosy allure-
ments of the advertisement are non-existent.
Naturally they express their disappointment
on arrival —though surely no boarders could
have been collectively so rude to their land-
lady. But perhaps their annoyance was due,
to the fact that no tea was awaiting the
tired coach-travellers. Tarella Quin un-
accountably omits any mention of this in-
evitable evidence of Australian hospitality.
Of course, the new arrivals contain several
freaks—and a couple of young people that
the experienced novel-reader knows will pair
off with the brother and sister at the home-
stead. There is plenty of light humor iu the
author’s account of the slummocky way in
which the house is run. And the idiosyn-
crasies of the paying guests are worked for
all they are worth. Yet the scene is
indubitably Australian —and a very dreary
scene, too; “The country was white as a
snowfield with, quartz.... On a bright day it
was next to impossible to look across the
quartz fields at all, so great was the glare.
White, blinding light glittered and dazzled
like something that moved incessantly within
itself, presenting restless sparks of light that
seethed under the eyes like a field of ice on
fire.” These are the golf-links that drew two
ardent golfers from Melbourne! There are
other places as ghostly: “The red moon filled
the night with burning moonlight, horrid as
it was unreal. The trees stood still like
monsters in an enchanted land, so’me trans-
fixed in the act of imploring, with uplifted
arms, some with downcast heads, brooding ;
all silent in the burning moonlight. . . .There
was an old crone amongst them in leafy
poke-bonnet, and had there been a little
wind, to endow her with life, she would have
curtsied, and nodded and danced", terrifying
them with her ancient bowings and scrap-
ings. About their knees flocked the turpen-
tine bushes that came trooping from over
the sandhills, and in their midst lay the
silent Lake of Bones.”
But this background becomes the setting
for the lightest of romantic comedies, with a
little broad comedy and a little excitement
thrown in. It is all pleasantly done.
Australian Nursery Rimes will soon be on
the bookstalls. A selection has been made
from the best original rimes sent in in the
recent Red Page competition. The book will
be printed on stout paper, and illustrated in
three colors. The cover is by Harry J.
Weston; and the artists contributing are:
Norman Lindsay, D. H Souter, Muriel
Nieholls, B. E. Minns. Percy Leason, David
Low, and Harry J. Weston. Owing to ill-
health May Gibbs was unable to help. The
book will b& sold for an appropriate charity,
the Children’s Hospital, Sydney. As the
leading booksellers have promised to handle
the book without their trade profit, and all
the artists and writers willingly gave their
work free, the Children’s Hospital should
benefit, considerably. The first edition makes
provision for the inclusion of this character-
istic Australian present in 10,000 Australian
kiddies’ Christmas stockings.
It is probably characteristic of our casual-
ness that so far the possibilities of Australia
for moving-picture production have hardly
been touched. We have here the finest light
for photography in the world, the finest
weather to take photographs in, unique
scenery and distinctive racial types. Else-
where on this page an enterprising photo-
play-prod ing firm affords an opportunity
to our writers to tackle this new drama-
form. The Australian writer need not
trouble about technicalities; all that is
required is a drama written in the form of
a short story. From the allocation of points
m the judging of entries it is apparent that
the style and construction—the literary
quality—counts only one-third of the total
points; Equally important are the title and
the opportunities afforded by the plot for
photographic purposes. The moving-picture
is a new art-form, composed of plot, title
and the camera.
“J.C.”: “Chink’s” Red Page note (B. 8/11/’l7),
touching the Governmental habit of loafing on other
lands for literary and other pabulum, sets me in the
mind to strafe the educational authorities in Maoriland
for the self-same crime. Some years ago a M.L. firm
of publishers was enterprising enough to compile a
special set of school readers for Australasian chil-
dren, with numerous articles on South Pacific and
Australasian subjects written by men who kflew.
The series exactly filled the bill, and for all I know
is still in use in Australia. But in more than one
educational district in M.L. the readers have already
received the chuck-out and been replaced by a series
from ’Ome, written, of course, purely for the happy
English child. The readers are chock-full of absurdi-
ties from the Australasian school-kid’s standpoint.
An illustration titled “The Timber-Fellers” shows
a brace of ’Ampshire toilers standing by the side of
a two-foot-girth oak they have succeeded in bringing
to earth; this for the admiration and enlightenment
of youngsters who know the monster kauri and the
blackbutt and their kind. There is a chapter on
astronomy from the British-skies side, and the young
Australasian is invited to study a night-chart of the
heavens as seen in the Northern Hemisphere. The
seasons, of course, are all wrong-end-up, and the only
way of extracting sense from the compilation is to
get Harimac standing on his head and induce him
pursue his studies in that position. M.L'., like Aus-
tralia, is quite equal to the job of writing its books
for its people. There is a School Journal, and it
at least is original stuff, compiled for local require-
ments, but its good work is capsized by the non-
native stuff.
HIGH CHIN BOB.
UP In the Uokiones, th>
A r ™ Ua ’° *'"* hi, »«,.
When who upon the scene should ride o * -
down the slope, nae a huppin'
But High Chin Bob of sinful pride and ™ .
hungry rope. v ancl wa*erick-
“Oh, glory be to me!” says he “ ftn d ,
fadin’ flowers; * and fame’s un-
I ride my good top hoss to-day and T’,„ * ,
of Lazy J, y ana top-hand
So, Kitty-cat, you’re ours!”
The lion licked his paws so brown and dreamed ,
dreams of veal, creamed soft
As ‘S cirdin ' a ™“«
1,8 y y£ E- *“* “ d *“ «* Mb
That top hoss give a snort and whirled am) d ,
caught up the slack; eu ’ and Bob
“Oh, glory be to me,” says he, “we’ll hit «
glory trail. ’ ' eu hlt the
No man has looped a lion’s head and lived
drag the dead, Ted to
Till I shall tell the tale.”
the M ° kioneS that top hoss done
’ Mid floo h r P t P o”c. b estf “ d from
Up and down and round and cross, Bob pounded
weak and wan, yuumieo
But pride still glued him to his hoss and Oan
drove him on. ® IUI J
“Oh, glory be to me,” says he, “this glory trull
is rough ! y uau
I’ll keep this dally round the horn until the toot
of judgment morn, 001
Before I’ll holler ’nough!”
Three suns had rode their circle home beyond the
desert nm, J
And turned their star-herds loose to roam the raiw*
high and dim ; °
And whenever Bob turned and hoped the limD w
mains to find,
A red-eyed lion, belly-roped, but healthy, lnned
behind! ’
“Oh, glory be to me,” says Bob, “he kaint be
drug to death!
These heroes that I’ve read about were only fools’
that stuck it out,
To the end of mortal breath.”
’Wav high up in the Mokiones, if vou ever cone
there at night,
You’ll hear a ruckus amongst the stones that will
lift your hair with fright;
You’ll see a cow hoss thunder by and a lion trail
along.
And the rider hold, with chin on high, sings forth
his glory song:
“Oh, glory be to me,” says he, “and to my
mighty noose; »
Oh, pardner, tell my friends below, I took a ragin’
dream in tow,
And tho’ I never laid him low—-I never turned
him loose! ”
01 cow-boy song, author unknown, printed in
Poetry ( U.S.A .).]


A*
'UGC
No. Cx23.—Biscuit Box, Silver-plated
on Britannia Metal, Fern Design, 63/*
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
Satisfaction in Silverplate.
Silverplated Ware eminently suitable for Xmas presents is dis-
played in large variety at the New Palace Emporium, where
the cost to purchasers is greatly reduced through the medium
of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices. The problem as to
what to purchase as Xmas presents will be solved by sending
for Anthony Horderns’ Xmas Price Lists, posted free on request.
They place selections from the magnificent assortment we offer
at the command of everyone. Write for copies NO V.
No. Cxi 47.—Oak Spirit Stand,
with Silver-plated Mounts, Cut Glass
Bottles; 2 Bottles 63/-
3 Bottles 72/6
■
No. Cx46.—Silver-plated Inkstand, Handsome Engraved
Design, suitable for School Presentation 37/6
No. 1049.—Oblong Entree Dishes,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, 10in.,
Elegant Design 50 /- each.
Sugar Basin & Scoop,
Silver-plated on Britannia
Metal, Pretty Design, 25/-
No. Cxi 15. —Dinner Cruet, Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Silver, 4 Out
Glass Bottles 25/-
No. €x6s. Cake Basket, Silver-plated on Nickel
35/-
Silver
• '"SBB£L
No. 91. —Oak Bi
cu i t Bo x, Silvi
plated Mount, very use-
ful gift 22/6
No. 999.—Flower Stand,
Silver-plated, charming effect,
with Iridescent Glass Vases—
-50/-
,«P
No. Cxi43. —Bis-
cuit Box, Silver-
plated Mounts—
-13/6
No. Cxl2.—Cake Basket, Silver-plated oil
Nickel Silver, Chased Design 30/-
No. Cx7B. —Card Receiver, Silver-plated,
Novel and Effective Design, dull Satin finish —
22/6
No. Cx99.—.Jam Dish,
Ruby Glass, Silvei’-plated
on Nickel Silver Stand —
10/6
'
wmm&A
i-ViT
Wl
IP
No. 981. Cake Basket, silver-plated on Britannia Metal,
Handsome Design, Satin Chased 35/-
y
MIIBIM
hi l -2! fl
Handsome Flower Stand, with 4 Glass Tubes,
Silver-plated on Britannia Metal 60/-
No. Cx79. —D inner
Cruet, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, with 4 Cut
Glass Bottles .... 30/-
Cxl2l. —-Sugar and Cream Stand,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver... 38/6
...
jumuullli''
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver Table Toaster, size Sin. x 6in.
Has separate Aluminium Hot Plate lor use as a heating stand
for dishes 38/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
■■ :■
v
/
VtOi
*3e_
SUdX.
-i
r,......
HUDSON
SUPER,
SIX
HUDSON CLOSED CARS
The World's Finest .
The Hudson Motor Car Company is the largest builder of closed cars in
the world. Hudson Super-Six Limousines and Town Cars are the highest
examples of the coachbuilder’s art. In luxury of design, in color and finish
they are distinctive. Hudson closed cars have plenty of speed.
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motor carries them
with ease. They are the choice of those who seek superlative performance
combined with beauty.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Hellow-FalKiner Motor Co., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Ad elaide.
W. Johnson Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth. .
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address: H UDBONCAR DETROIT.
-
SJBUtSL'ij '
yrrm
m
N
V
s?>
s
r'Sr
«*y
"V
m
&
m
wmm
&i»n
#
. . . . ..,
VO
mm,
\ s
\ y"
wm
iAV
('•? , ,/ i -;
:’■ ■
iX. : : ;
, %
1
A^si
m
,
NATURALLY, THE COW WAS ASTONISHED
YOU WOULD ALSO BE ASTONISHED
If you saw Samples of the many Dainty Dishes that are made with
\IC CTI Mill 1/
NESTLE S MILK
A VALUABLE RECIPE BOOK POST FREE (on mentioning this paper) on application to
NESTLE & ANGLO-SWISS CONDENSED MILK CO.
SYDNEY BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART
NESTLE’S MILK


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, puffiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
msmm
Kidney&BladderPills
These Pil' ' ' "
' NOT GENI
1 These Pills also act on the liv'er. m
NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE *
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. ba.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill-—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief —every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or bow badly
you have suffered.
Grease Lubricators.
3
' s >'ST'e^
Specify....
“DESLYN”
(Reg. Trade Mark)
GREASE CUPS
and see you get them.
Scientific, Economical,
Easily Applied.
Used by N.S.W.
Government.
AUSTRALIAN MADE by
D. F. GLYNN MFG. CO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Wholesale only). ’Phone 7680.
Write for Particulars and list of Supply Houses.
:: v •* . *** <
; s|f&s tp ;ip
lUhWtficltig ‘cj'tf&r*. j .t;
' ' Mcstwre iifc
s&ir ir>i*l|
m
or B. AUEH'S
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
Perfectly Beautiful!
But Her Complexion
IF your good looks are suffering
because of a sallow, pallid, blotchy
skin, remember that such a condition
is usually a sympton of a far more seri-
ous internal condition , due to the poisons
of constipation.
Physicians will tell you that a great
many of our common ills, such as
rheumatism, Rigg’sDisease( Pyorrhea)
skin infections, hardening of the arter-
ies, can be traced to the lowering of
the vitality due to constipation.
You should keep yourself and your
family free from constipation by using
Nujol. Nujol is endorsed by leading
physicians the world over as the
rational treatment for constipation.
Unlike physics it is absolutely harm-
less. It acts as an internal lubricant,
is not absorbed by the body, acts
gently without pain or griping.
A bottle of Nujol will save sickness
and doctors’ bills later on.
Ask your chemist for booklet. Sold only in
16 ounce bottles bearing Nujol trademark.
Never in bulk. Avoid substitutes.-
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(New Jersey)
U. S. A.
jPlfll'li#
vTTi
M
I M« Hi
P fi:
\% mm
i
HiM
ill
NOUVdIISMOO HOd
IHYW^^aaYHI
3
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Power Built In
Power of hold that makes your car
travel safe and sure over rough and
slippery roads. Power of resistance
against wear that means economical,
generous mileage. We urge you to
try Firestone Tyres, because they
are dependable—built for wear and
tear on all roads, in any season.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney,
New South Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria;
and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia,
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Ltd., Brisbane,
Queensland.
A. Hatriek & Go., Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garagem
Write for Ilhutrated Literature
■'■••y
SteK
B
m
S 3
&
Si
SR
ssg
«■" ■
'~m+
-':
Rli
***
5*
1
W&
W.J3
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Little Miss Spring.
Miss Spring, I see you everywhere
When shines the sun and drifts the glow
Of gay rejuvenescence. Fair
And young you are, and blither show
Than maids of twelve short months ago.
Your eyes cage dancing happiness,
And humorous your little nose is.
There’s youth’s keen fire on every tress;
Your cheek a stream of health discloses
That lures like misty morning roses.
Oh, sweet Miss Spring, how come you here
To wanton ’neatli our sapphire skies?
Did any hint or sign appear
We had not felt this glad surprise.
You strike the air like butterflies
One lovely morn, and, when you pass,
Where go you? There remain, it seems,
Small footprints on the spangled grass,
A sense of smiles and rainbow gleams,
And vague perplexity of dreams.
Your being vibrant as a string
Sings dowm the hills in garments gay;
You look through child-eyes wondering ;
Then, presto, you have gone your way,
And mortals may not bid you stay.
Who can mistrust the fairy rhyme,
And see the Spring-time maidens meet?
These are the fairies of all time,
That in September start complete
To flee before December’s heat.
VICTORIA.
D.
Moonlight.
The moonlight’s golden sway
Lies heavy on the bay ;
As in a magic dream
The gilded waters gleam.
Steeped in the silent light
Looms large each headland height;
No sound, save murmurs low
Where wavelets foam like snow.
The moonlight’s golden calm
Seems filled with holy balm
From Heaven’s violets —
Soft memories, soothed regrets.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR BAYLDON.
The News.
The sky was grey with scudding clouds that
sped
Before a wind which bent the sighing trees;
We watched him from our window-seat with
ease,
And wondered where his measured footsteps
led.
Bent, clear-eyed shepherd of his scattered
flock,
The dear old cleric came in solemn state.
We saw him halt a moment at the gate;
Then on our door we heard his gentle knock.
As people who are sleeping in a trance.
We knew his words, before his lips could tell.
Our Jim—the charge—a bursting German
shell;
And now he sleeps behind the lines in
France.
To salve our loss bright words of comfort
came.
He turned and left us with our brimming
tears.
This was the end of all our hopes and
fears —•
But, God be thanked, young Jim had played
the game!
The thoughts of boyish things he did and
said
Come crowding one another in the brain.
He seems our lad in knickers once again :
And then we wake to find that he is dead.
But with poor comfort where all comforts
fail,
We’ll have him with us yet a little while ;
For full of life, and brimming with his
smile,
His letters still are coming by the mail.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. R. BERESFORD.
Meeting.
Each morning when I woke it was to say:
“He cannot come through all the hours to-
day—
I must be busy with a hundred things.”
Then on an hour so suddenly you came,
My pale mouth curved to a pomegranate
flame;
A hundred little songs it softly sings.
n.s.w.
NORA McAULIFFE.
Queen of Hearts.
Is yon grey woman our golden girl,
Our Queen of Hearts in a day long done?
Amber and ivory, coral and pearl,
Wine and honey and cream in one.
Just as a rose, a peerless rose,
Alone in splendor, its petals pearled
With dews o’ the night, in the morning
shows,
So she reigned in our rainbow world.
O Rose the peerless, O Rose the sweet,
Your petals cumber the callous grass,
For the years have eaten, as gluttons eat, •
Youth and beauty and all that was.
Old Time has feasted himself upon
The wine and honey and treasured cream;
Amber and ivory, too, are gone ;
Coral and pearl are but a dream.
Yet here’s a toast to the golden girl
Who queened our realm in a day long
done:
“Amber and ivory, coral and pearls
Wine and honey and cream in one.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


k
j ■
mm<w7*i**»*
&'' . - 1
■
xsgsm
aim
'f-..,..
.'/r*
...7;
Wmmmm
mmmM
l§gsf§l
Ml
o-‘-.- V: -
IP
ilp|fe*x><V
■s
«»«1®
r -%-
' '■■ >«^
'K
<sg
iststii
r
*
o-, :
r-s
* •
VS
m
,;. ■ ' '
ism
w
«CTwjsß»>ifc
FROM ALL STORES
FfA NUFA CTc/RSO &Y'
PERDRIAE RUBBER CO. Lift
SVPHEV. MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH APEL&IBF
<>
K.vV i i .
k/
tm
.
•y.vN
The Opera
at Home!
No other instrument, however manipu-
lated—and no other records, wherever
made —can possibly give you the same
realistic reproduction of famous operas
as “His Master's Voice.”
Complete sets of “Faust” Celebrity Records,
in Albums. £l7/17/-
CARMEX, H.M.S. PINAFORE.
MIKADO, YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
TRAYIATA, CAYALLERIA RUSTICANA,
and all noteworthy operas are reproduced by
“His Master’s Voice”
Records.
You can always procure any individual song or air from any of the operas,
specially recorded for ‘‘His Master’s Voice” by an artist of renown.
His Masters Voice'
“ gramophone: »*
Refjd. Trade Mark.
It is well to remember that these records
do not bi’ing you any cheap imitation, but
the actual recording of THE CELEBRI-
TIES' VOICES —the famous artists who
sing at the world’s principal opera houses.
They sing only for “His Master’s Voice”
Records.
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and
name of nearest accredited dealer on
request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
THE ABBOT
Pressure Filter
For Attaching to Main or Elevated Tank.
ABBOT GERM-PROOF FILTERS,
Pressure and Drip,
MADE IN VARIOUS STYLES.
Ask your Store for New Catalogue.
Sole
Manufacturers-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
10-12 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney,
You will enjoy the “Thorne”
flavor —so rich, so distinctive, so
delightful.
Thorne’s is a whisky of the
highest merit. Men of keen dis-
crimination invariably prefer it.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.
Rich in higher ethers
and therefore ideal for medicinal purposes. Doctors
endorse the use of Martell’s in hospitals.
MARTELL’S
Fine Old Cognac
BRANDY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.-No. 1973.
T U DECEMBER 0$
Price 6d.
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]
DECEMBER THE TWENTIETH.
BILLDIM: “It’s a bit shaky, but I think it will get me over.”
AUSTRALIA: “Here, wait a bit! I’ll put this under it, and that will make it quite safe.”


SPECIAL NOTICE TO AGENTS AND
SUBSCRIBERS.
In consequence of the scarcity of
printing paper, we regret to advise that
there will be no Special Christmas Num-
ber of “Thj? Bulletin” this year.
MANAGER,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
/•or £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications ivill be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of i(S. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Bastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
comer Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Born, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Boung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Bong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be' enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Sioz. to 10oz., 21d.:
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, -Joz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
f xH>eZz/7i.
THURSDAY DECEMBER 6, 1917.
THE BOGUS CONSCIENCE OF THE
QUITTERS.
The barrackers for “No” say that in stand-
ing against compulsory service they are
defending a fundamental principle of their
democratic faith. When they say this they
know they talk nonsense, for 99 per cent,
of them have been as vehemently in favor
of compulsion as they now profess to be
against it. They speak of Conscription as
a leprous thing. Yet it was they who ma.de
Conscription an integral part of the statute
law of the Commonwealth and threw
bouquets at themselves for doing it. As a
sample of good, hard lying this claim of
theirs to be lifelong opponents of something
for which they were giving three cheers
only a little while ago would be hard to
beat. Even now they do not go to the
length of denying the right of the State
to call to arms every citizen —not the single,
unencumbered individual only, but the
married and even the ancient —if Australia
had to grapple with an invader. It is
easier to" omit making any reference to this
aspect of the matter, to forget that the eom-
pulsionists of yesterday are the antis of to-
day, and to make loud remarks instead
about “the obligation resting on the prole-
tariat to keep the country free from the iron
heel of Prussianism” —this Prussianism
being the article which Australia was pre-
sented with when the Defence Act was
passed, making every male inhabitant of the
Commonwealth between the ages of 18 and
60 years liable to service. It is not Con-
scription these people are asking their
fellow-citizens now to resist. Their talk about
the iniquity of voting boys of 20 into the
firing-line is mere hypocritical snuffle. Their
yarn about no people in the history of the
world having ever voted away their freedom
is unadorned bosh. Australia has a Con-
scription law vastly wider in scope than is
the project now under discussion. And
Australians have voted for it time after
time, urged thereto by tongues that are now
telling them to regard every advocate of
compulsion as a missionary of oppression.
If they were honest, the phrase-mongers
who liowl at the people of Australia to vote
“No” would put their case this way:—
We have supported Conscription for the defence of
Australia. We have supported nscription because
we have believed it necessary. Our opposition to
the thing now is not because we believe compulsion
to be bad in itself, but because we object to it
being emploj’ed against an enemy somewhere else
than in Australia. We ask you to vote “No” only
as an expression of opinion that Conscription is
undesirable until the hostile force can be reached by
boot instead of by water.
But that way there would be need to argue
the case on its merits —to show that when
an enemy makes war on Australia, as Ger-
many has done and is still doing, it is better
to wait until invasion is a fafet than to anti-
cipate the event and try to make an inva-
sion impossible. But there are difficulties
about arguing like that. It is much simpler
to raise frantic cries about slavery and
militarism, to weep in public about the
sacredness of human life, to make banal
comparisons between local politicians and
kaisers, and generally to befog the issues by
addressing melodramatic appeals to the
ignorant and the apathetic. Even the lead-
ing soloists in the No orchestra would find
it a mighty hard job to justify their yelps
against Conscription if they had to start
with an admission that the only difference
between themselves and the other crowd is a
matter of detail: that they cordially approve
of Prussianism, iron heels, industrial con-
scription, the application of compulsion to
all hands almost irrespective of age or
family ties, trafficking in human life, and all
the rest of it after the enemy has pushed
his way into this country.
Year in and year out the Australian public
has been exhorted, by the very individuals
who to-day are telling the electors to “vote
against Conscription,” to support tfie authors
of a Conscription law. Now they are being
told by the same people that Conscription is
the devil, and they must have nothing to do
with it—that the greatest glory of Australia
is that she alone of the Allies has not sub-
mitted to the curse of compulsion! And
they are further informed that a “No”
majority on December 20 means repudia-
tion of Conscription—that very Conscription
which has always been an important plank
in the platform advanced by the leaders of
the “No” campaign. “No” does not mean
that Australians will decide against compul-
sory service. A majority on that side can
have no more effect on the law than on the
sugar-crop. What it will mean is that a
majority of the population is opposed to
extending the authority of Parliament so
that a voluntarily enlisted army, sent away
to fight the battles of the Commonwealth,
may be reinforced by the conscription of a
limited number of individuals who are
already liable to Conscription if the fighting
was to be done anywhere in Australia.
That is the possible victory the “Noes” may
achieve. It is a poor victory to be laboring
after; and if they honestly confessed that
that was all it could possibly amount to, it
would make their hysteria look more like the
disease it really is. Strip away all the
rhodomontade, and what stands before the
Australian to-day is to decide whether, hav-
ing Conscription for the defence of Aus-
tralia, we shall always wait for the enemy
to attack us at home, and never utilise com-
pulsion to ward off a threatened invasion.
The choice is simple, and in the judgment of
this paper the Australian-born can only
answer in one way. What would it avail
them if by saying “No” they saw the regi-
ments of Australian soldiers beaten off in the
struggle till none were left? That they had
thereby kept free of Conscription? Nothing
of the kind —for they had Conscription with
them long before the war began. The best
they could make of it would be that an army
voluntarily went away to help keep an enemy
outside of Australia, and that the Conscrip-
tionists who were left behind voluntarily
decided to* let this army perish rather than
keep it up to fighting strength while the jpb
it wont to tackle was unfinished. The fool-
ish notion that this army is not fighting
for Australia no longer has credence even in
the backblocks near the Yarra and Sydney
Domain. But the clumsy prevarication that
by withholding reinforcements unless they go
voluntarily Australia can maintain some-
thing calied “freedom of soul” gets great
encouragement from people who never men-
tion that they spent much time in the past
slaying arguments against compulsion and
parting with the kind of freedom which they
say they yearn for to-day.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-strect, Sydney.]
CITIZENSHIP.
The easiest mouthful of political words
used since Athens first got a notion of
democracy has always been one which con-
tained some idea related to citizenship: yet
free citizenship of any effective sort has
been about the hardest of all things to
realise. The original tribe, which repro-
duced on a more intelligent basis the animal-
hunting pack, laid great stress on leader-
ship and very little on individual rights;
and the State, evolving out of the tribe,
still clung to the notion that to have a good
and capable king was of infinitely greater
importance than to have a multitude of
thoughtful men who understood what the
king was doing. The king's job was to lead
well; the individual’s job was to follow well.
It is- for this reason that the histories of
most countries have been the histories of
their kings and princes, and that kings
and princes without the gold hat and gilded
palace are still created by democracies
whose individuals cannot rise to kingship
over themselves. Among the tribes of Maori-
land the dull, solid fighters who followed
the chiefs had practically no ambitions and
purposes larger than those which found a
goal in food and comfort; but the ambi-
tions of the chiefs were boundless, and their
wildest adventurings never lacked the sup-
port of those whose duty it was to serve
to the death without questioning. Matters
were exactly similar —allowing for wider
knowledge and higher culture even in remote
times —among the first States of Europe.
Greek, Celt, Goth, Etruscan and Celto-
Iberian were all at first organised on the
same pattern. The glory of the chief was
the glory of the tribe; the glory of the
king was the glory of the State. The rule
was more or less despotic; but modified in
most cases by the idea, which now appears
rather subtle, that the boss of all was the
chief servant of all. Also, the hereditary
idea of kingship came late; and with a
more or less elective leadership there v r as
some sort of reasonable guarantee that the
king should be a king, and not a mere holder
of office by right of divine humbug. With
such a system woven into the race through
perhaps 25 thousand years, the extreme
difficulty of making free citizens ought to
be clear to the most enthusiastic democrat.
Follow-my-leader has been the human notion
so long that stand-upon-my-own-feet-and-
play-the-game is a thing hard to learn and
easy to forget. The men who stand most
upon the principle of democratic rights are
found in the struggle and stress blindly
groping round for the leadership which is
a partial denial of their own political creed.
Free citizenship did not grow up from
the primeval tribe or the natural combine
of the original State. Athens, advancing
far in thought beyond the surrounding
peoples, and having far passed the original
necessities of the tribal combine, experi-
mented with democracy and, on the whole,
found that it did not work. Sparta, best
organised of Greek communities, never even
gave it a thought. Israel tried it in some
loose way which finished up in brutish
anarchy and forced upon the nation the
election of a despotic king; and even after
the Babylonian captivity, when the religious
zeal of the restored people refused to recog-
nise any king except God, the High Priest
at Jerusalem took on practically all the
functions of kingship. It remained for
Rome to give democracy some sort of force
and meaning; and Rome —on its own
account of itself —wasn’t a nation that had
grown up out of a natural amalgamation of
tribes. The city was by tradition a sanc-
tuary of outlaws. Any man who could wield
a hefty sword joined the original commu-
nity there ; and his safety from some avenger-
of-blood without, as well as from his trucu-
lent fellow-pirate within, depended on his
own strength and cunning. Though Rome
had kings for a while like other nations,
the Roman citizen never seems to have
trusted his king nor to have kow-towed to
him with any special reverence. The mon-
arch had the right to paint his face red and
to lead in battle; but when it came to mak-
ing laws, the priests, backed up by the col-
leges of Augurs, took a hand. Even w r ith
these limitations to royalty, however, there
came a time when the Roman freemen could
stand no more of the Rex. In their concep-
tion the king was the Regulator—the person
who did right—and when he grew specially
irregular and did what was particularly
wrong they threw him out so violently on
his painted ear that all the force of the big
Etruscan Empire to the north couldn't put
him back on the throne of one small city.
The Roman democracy was a very compli-
cated affair. One piece of the organisation
was in the habit of getting tangled up with
another in the most alarming fashion; and
petty oppression was constantly rising
which had to be bumped down with violence.
But, in spite of periods of anarchy and
serious muddle at most times, the Roman
democrat knew where he was. Democratic
Athens had to bring the electors to the poll
by chasing them in with a freshly-painted
rope. If they didn’t get to the ballot-box in
quick time their Sunday clothes were ruined.
Rome needed no such tricks. The people
went with a whoop to the polling-place with
never a doubt about what they intended to
do when they got there. The explanation
of the difference is perfectly simple. The
people of Rome hadn’t the hereditary habit
of follow-my-leader in their blood, and prac-
tically all other peoples had. Roman
democracy died with the empire because
all sorts of races and peoples had come into
the city and State who had none of the
ancient freeman's spirit; but the light of the
thing tfiat burned so brightly by the Tiber
flashed on into the thought of Europe
through the darkness of the succeeding ages.
At last George Washington and
Benjamin Franklin got the lamp alight
ou a small scale in America. .France saw
it and reared the gigantic bonfire of the
Revolution; and in that glare a dozen
nations grasped some notion of the mean-
ing of free citizenship. But it wasn’t in
the blood. The old subservience, sometimes
grovelling into mere servility, sometimes
looking bravely and hopefully for leadership,
was everywhere strong against the new
wave of liberty. Democracy has been a
great name and a vast hope; but only in
small places and under special conditions
has it become anything like a reality.
* * « *
When Australia’s so-called democracy,
wearing the name with pride of hope, reared
the Commonwealth and wiped out the
narrowing divisions of the States, many
people believed that the sunshine and physi-
cal freedom and the breadth of an unbroken
continent had created the free spirit which
would make a grand national march possi-
ble. Here, if anywhere, it seemed that’citi-
zenship should burgeon out into full appre-
ciation of duty and a co-operation of aim
and effort which would once and for all
establish the claim of democracy as the best
human system of government. * Now, after
a trial of li years, it is hard to see anv sign
of the blossoming. There is some weak sense
of free citizenship among us; but instead of
carrying us on into bigger places, that sense
has only been strong enough to make the old-
fashioned leadership impossible. One-half of
the population is yelling pitifullv for some-
one of strength and integrity to lead it; one-
fourth is utterly apathetic about the whole
political business, and merely lives in the
country as it .might sojourn in some foreign
place like China or Brazil. The remaining
fraction is keen for citizenship and for all
its rights and duties, but numbers amnn „
its members all the faddists, quick- cur Tl B
formers and the several brand! of Se or'
less well-intentioned anarchist who see •
the abolition of the policeman or the boilin?
down of the banks an open gate into the
Millennium. The secret of the widespread
wrangle and wobble that we call Australia
lies in the fact that we have no inbred feel
ing or instincts for citizenship. To the"
Roman in old times that feeling came natn
rally ; by other peoples, accustomed for a4s
to the game of follow-my-leader. it must°be
slowly and painfully learned. Probably we
are learning it—learning it bitterly enough
in the break-down of leadership and the col
lapse of the system of representation, \ us ~
tralia cannot go back to her kings. Even
our temporary kings, with the ruins on their
shoulders and the bit in their mouths those
temporary kings who were described as
party leaders—have got into the habit of
failing us at every crisis. Democracy full
free citizenship—is our only possible road-
but we shall make a pretty poor job of foil
lowing it if the feeling for the thing cannot
be taught to the people. W. M. Hughes’s
notion of hustling and bullying the citizen-
ship into the way he thinks it should go is
foreign to the whole conception of a free
State. He may be right; but his methods
are dangerously and damnably wrong. The
Referendum is a great and true weapon of
democracy ; but you cannot mix that with
any notion of kingship. Considering what a
free citizenship should be, and might be, and
having regard to the fact that only bv free
practice of its privileges is it likely to' learn
their proper use, it is worth considering
whether every paid politician should not be
compelled to close his mouth the moment
the writs for a Referehdum poll are issued.
The democracy may learn, but how can it
think with the voices of those who have
failed to act yelling in its ears?
WAKING UP STATE FRIGHTS IX A
NEW PLACE.
Ox general principles The Bulletin
bitterly regrets that the Commonwealth has
not the power to turn every State House of
Parliament into a hen-roost. Each of them
shelters what had long ago become a public
nuisance. The country is grotesquely over-
loaded with Legislatures and is rapidly being
impoverished by the maintenance of super-
fluous Parliaments, and the electors are as
rapidly being demoralised by a system which
has become little better than a well-rehearsed
travesty on popular government. Where-
fore it might seem appropriate that this
paper should proceed to rejoice over the
seizure of the Bananaland Hansard by a
military officer acting under the direction of
Hughes, and be happy and glad because the
disorderly proceedings in Brisbane last week
appeared likely to bring the prevailing con-
ditions into ridicule. But the circumstances
incidental to this disturbance are not of the
kind from which it is possible to extract
enough hilarity to last five minutes. The
object of the Ryan Government was, of
course, to strike a blow at the Common-
wealth. It has been at this game ever since
coming into office ; it has been dodging out
of holes and corners to play off the State
against the Federation. But earnestly though
it desires to see the Commonwealth maintain
the national army at fighting strength (and
it is willing to condone many things in
order that this may be done), The Bul-
letin is not going to put all of the blame
on the shoulders of Ryan. Hughes cannot
evade responsibility for his share in the pro-
ceedings.- The root of them all is his own
provocative tongue and his tactical blunder-
ing.
* * * *
Electing to use the referendum as a
method of determining public policy upon a
question described by himself as of “vital
importance”’ to the country, Hughes decided
to employ the War Precautions Act for pre-
venting the circulation of “misleading state-
ments.” for abolishing “lies” from the refer-
endum controversy, and for imposing pains
and penalties on misleaders and liars. The
effect has been to tighten up the Censorship
to practically any point considered suitable
by the individual with the blue-pencil.
Wherefore Ryan and his mates conceived
the bright idea of getting round the Censor
and the regulations issued by Hughes under
the barrage of Parliamentary privilege. They
started off a debate on compulsory service
in the local Assembly, said things which the
Federal Government had either declared to
be “misleading” or put into the category ot
“lies,” dumped the debate into Hansard and
got ready to issue copious supplies. The
official report of Parli-.ment practically
became an Anti-Conscription placard, an
the Government claimed that any interfer-
ence with the document was an invasion 0
the Sovereign Rights of the State. Thus 1
happened that when Hughes sent a We 0
soldiers to the Government Printing
and had the heaps of Hansard removed, an
threatened Ryan and Treasurer T h eodo
with arrest if they said outside what t p .
said inside Parliament, everything went 0
with a bang. The rest was a tale "Die
might have come from St. Petersburg. L®
guage was being hurled about in vast nun •
Ryan, after frequently addressing
democracy of his Sovereign State, was g° =
to sleep surrounded by his police to * ‘
Hughes was talking at the top of his v
about the Supreme Authority of the r ecle
Government when it came to winning w ■
Organised Anti-Conscription was blowing
hole in the heavens with protests a ? a lP N --g
interference with free speech. KvA
opponents were urging HUGHES to take - l
The war evaporated in a night, and
was a dog-fight in every street. #
* * * .
It is not necessary to have any i a £ ral^ r
tion for Ryan in order to have le*-
Hughes. The regulations issued l ’ ncl< l ,
War Precautions Act relative to the K
endum campaign may possibly have
sanction of legality, though this paper 1 ;
it, and in any case has all along P *
that the Act was being hideously « "
and should never have been passed, a . I , g
But whether they are legal or not. «
about as much to be said for their -1
ency as can be advanced in favor of 0


the public to swallow laudanum. And the
spectacle of Hughes directing a raid by
soldiers on misleading documents and printed
perjury concealed in State offices —censoring
people right and left and agitatedly chasing
lies —is a queer revelation of misapplied
energy. The prosecution of people for sedi-
tious talk could be understood. It is a
reasonable thing that the law should fall
with both feet on anyone who interferes
with enlistment. No decent citizen can
object to restriction upon either his tongue
or jiis pen so that knowledge of military
value may he prevented from reaching the
enemy. But to appeal to the popular vote
in order that Parliament may get the public
view on a question, and at the same time
announce that the Ministry is the first and
final judge of what is misleading and what
is a lie, is a sure method of securing opposi-
tion, encouraging evasion, provoking resent-
ment and turning the referendum into a
jest. The essence of submitting a question
to the referendum is that there .should be
the widest discussion upon it. What are
misleading statements, anyhow? What are
lies? The Bulletin is positive that not
half as much harm could be done by all the
liars in the Commonwealth working in sec-
tions round the clock as has been done by
the Censors who have distorted the “war
news” on which the public has been fed. It
is not the business of a Ministry attempting
to legislate through plebiscites and refer-
endums to stop what it regards as mistaken
opinions and errors of fact from getting expres-
sion. Its clear duty is to allow an open field
for discussion ; to restrain no one unless he
offends against the ordinary law. The
moment it departs from this attitude it is
looking for trouble and can be sure of get-
ting it. Therefore The Bulletin sees no
reason to be surprised that the “Noes” in
Bananaland, irritated by the futile gag
manufactured by Hughes, tried to get their
mouths open in the way recommended by
Ryan. In a large measure trickery was
forced upon them. This paper regards their
attitude on the main question with horror
and looks upon their views as hopelessly
wrong. They on their part contemplate
The Bulletin’s views on compulsory ser-
vice with loathing. But all that has nothing
to do with the merits of the argument nor
with the referendum. Ryan and Theodore
are quite as much entitled to say what they
think about compulsory service as Hughes.
If they are not, then the referendum is a
mockery. In any case, Hughes with his
soldiers and seizures and threatenings is an
absurdity. His performance in Bananaland
has not "gained a vote for compulsion nor a
friend for Australian unity.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Call from Over the Trenches.
the message that follows is from Boyd
Cable, author of “Between the Lines" and
other war books. Boyd Cable happened to
be in England when the war broke out, and
was in the first British expedition sent to
France; and since then he has been con-
tinuously in khaki. He wires from “Some-
where in Flanders," and if the address doesn’t
satisfy the Australian electoral law it can
argue the matter with the Royal Flying
Corps:—•
I am cabling this at my own expense, because Aus-
tralian voters on the Referendum should know what
the feeling is here with regard to the situation. At
present I am attached to an Australian unit, and
have taken every opportunity to obtain the opinions
of officers and men. I estimate that the vote of the
army in the field, which alone knows from personal
experience how urgent is the need for reinforce-
ments, will be almost a solid one for Conscription.
We no longer hear the ridiculous argument that
conscripts are no good. The Imperial, Maoriland,
Canadian and French armies all disprove that stupid
old idea. The A.I.F. has fought alongside all, and
know their worth.
No wounds that the enemy can inflict hurt the
Australians so much as those home papers which
bring details and pictures of sports and strikes,
showing crowds of fit men who should be here. If
reinforcements fail us, proud-traditioned battalions
must dwindle anS ultimately vanish. The British
first expeditionaries have mostly been put on home
jobs. But the few surviving original Anzacs,
wounded again and again, are returned to the line
repeatedly, and if this is continued must inevitably
be wiped out. Not they alone, but the whole army
feels that this is not a fair deal. Yet recent appeals
for volunteers to relieve them have met with
inadequate response. Is Australia indifferent to theii
fate? Have their mates at home deserted them?
We are not willing to credit that they have done so
with their eyes open. We still try to make our-
selves believe that our mates at home do not realise
how desperately the situation demands men. The
Russian collapse frees Germans for service on this
Front; yet at the same time our line must be
depleted in order to help Italy. Can’t our mates
see what that means for us?
But there is something else. English and French
papers are publishing statements regarding the num-
ber of available military-aged men in Australia. The
implication is obvious and it hurts those Australians
who are here. We want to keep our pride in our
country. Will Australia fail us? If we are to die,
let us at least die proud men.
Everyone recalls the boast about the last man
and the last shilling.” The time has come to make
it good.
.
Repatriation with an lOU.
V cable message from London the othei
day said that Millen, Minister for
Repatriation, had denied having told the
Times correspondent in Sydney that repatria-
tion was dependent on plentiful supplies ot
English loan money. The answer of the
correspondent was that he had been direct y
asked by Millen to attribute these observa-
tions to him. The truth on the point mat-
ters very little. The fact is that the scheme
of repatriation which Millen has been
trumpeting about, and the Act passed by
the Federal Parliament establishing a
Department of Repatriation, does depend
on loans—enormous loans. me lana
settlement side of it involves millions
of borrowed cash and the creation ot mil-
lions of debt for the purchase of estates.
It is a boom scheme from beginning to end,
and The Bulletin has heard of nothing
to alter the opinion it has had from the
start that, even if the plan were practic-
able, it would be ruinous to all hands except
a few landowners. But it is not practicable.
Mtllen and other people can make up their
minds that, even if there be some political
advantage in stalling along in the meantime
with talk and frittering away a million or
two here and there, J. Bull, when this war
is over, is going to have no millions for such
projects as land resumption in; Australia.
The certainty is that John will be far more
inclined to ask Australia to see about pay-
ing up the old bill and getting rid of the
lunacy which had allowed the possession of
vast tracts of an empty continent to become
the privilege of the well-to-do. Millen
may perhaps have observed what is happen-
ing to J. Bull’s pocket. At any rate, in a
speech in Sydney the other day he referred
to the possible necessity for new methods
of land settlement. Pending their discovery
this paper protests against any additional
landowners in Australia being bought out at
existing values. Those values have rested
on a loan-promoted boom, and the boom
is just about over.
Ivan Says “Outski.”
Germany’s trouble is that Russia’s retire-
ment may not be final: at any time another
party may get hold of the guns and turn
them upon Prussia, and that possibility
must keep the enemy jumping. On the
other hand, the tremendous food supplies
of the "Slav are not very likely to come to
German mouths; and to occupy Russian
territory and cultivate it could be of no
advantage to Germany, since the failing
man-power of the empire does not permit
her to cultivate her own paddocks to the
best advantage. After all, then, about the
lot that the collapse of the late Czar’s
alleged road-roller can amount to is the
transfer of a few divisions from the East
Front to the West or the sending of some-
thing down to help the Turks or Austrians.
Probably, gambling on the Russian position,
just about all that can be done in that
respect has been done already ; for the risk
of a Russian break-through has been remote
for months past. The only way in which
any turn of events in the east could be of
serious advantage to the Kaiser would be
through Russia taking up arms with the
central empires; and to every Russian revo-
lutionary that must be utterly unthinkable.
A foolish peace with dishonor may be made
by a people ignorant of the meaning of their
act; but a war to aid Kaiserism is some-
thing that none of the 19 raging parties in
the republic could be induced to enter.
Meanwhile Haig goes on hitting, France
and Italy can still do something more than
resist, and America is getting ready; and
from the broader standpoint it is far better
that Russia should not be the special agent
by which the Allies win to victory.
Public Health up North.
The regulations for applying the Venereal
Diseases clauses of the Queensland Health
Act, passed early in the year, are at last in
operation in the Ryan State. They will
enable the local Government to earn a £
for £ subsidy from Commonwealth funds,
up to £3OOO per annum, subject to certain
conditions, which include inspection of hos-
pitals and clinics by a Commonwealth med-
ical officer. Two night clinics are to be
established in Brisbane, and others in the
principal towns, where free treatment is to
be given. All hospitals receiving Govern-
ment subsidies are required to treat vene-
real cases, and it is apparently the
intention to control those Pharisaic commit-
tees which once were wont, on allegedly
moral grounds, to refuse admission to suf-
ferers from venereal disease. Provision is
made for the examination of prostitutes and
of prisoners and for the detention of in-
fected persons under treatment until they
are no longer a danger to others. The most
notable sections in the regulations are,
nevertheless, those relating to the ordinary
sufferer. Every infected individual, male or
female, within three days of becoming aware
or suspecting that he or she is suffering
fiom venerea] disease, must consult a med-
ical practitioner. The penalty for neglect
is £2O. The prescribing chemist or the
young-man’s-friend harpy will not do;
special provision is made for these gentry in
the shape of fines and imprisonment if they
treat cases. Every hospital is required to
afford treatment. If no hospital is available
the Health Commissioner will pay a private
doctor if the sufferer is unable to do so. The
Health Commissioner may order the compul-
sory examination of any person whom he
or any medical practitioner suspects to be
suffering from venereal disease. Every
doctor who is consulted by a venereally-
infected person is required to hand that
person a written notice stating the dangers
of the disease and the legal consequences of
infecting others. Marriage of a person with
venereal disease carries a liability to im-
prisonment up to 12 months; and marriage
with an infected person may be declared
void. Some sensible provisions are made
for the prevention of the spread of infec-
tion by towels, baths and drinking vessels,
and there is a much-needed prohibition
against any infected person taking part in
the preparation or service of food. The
necessity for such a law' is indicated by the
fact that a recent examination of cooks and
waiters in New York showed that some 10
per cent, had venereal disease, and the idea
is sufficiently nauseous in itself to anyone
who has watched Alcibiades Steakadegg
behind the scenes mixing the salad with
his hands. The new law's are good in.them-
selves, and if effectively administered
should hit V.D. hard, without hitting the
sufferer any more than can be avoided.
Effectively administered they will cost a
good deal of money, and will arouse a good
deal of adverse political interest of the
unadvertised kind. But it is to be hoped
that, because of this, they will not suffer
from the average State Government’s
Micawberish tendency to pass laws and then
stop short before the necessary funds are
provided to administer them. Ineffectively
administered, laws of this kind are even
more dangerous a fraud on the public than
were the recent doings of the swindler who
sold thousands of doses of bogus salvarsan
composed of tinted sugar,
A Muddle that Keeps on Muddling.
It is time that the Yanko (N.S.W.) irriga-
tion muddle was straightened out. For the
last three years or more there has been a
wail from settlers who were enticed out
to get rich quick by what are now generally
admitted to have been highly overdrawn
pictures. After a gorgeous start with
plenty of limelight, it was not long before
there was a suspicion that all was not
well with the great irrigation project which
was going to carry some 50 thousand people
in a few years. The suspicion became %
certainty, and the yell was so fierce in con-
sequence that Holman some two years ago
visited the area to ascertain what was the
trouble. His qualifications as a soil, irriga-
tion and agricultural expert are not clear;
but, even so, once the settlers got hold of
him they had no difficulty in proving that
what had been leased to some of them as
lucerne land was not growing lucerne worth
a cent. In an enterprise involving some
four millions it had never been deemed
necessary to make an actual and practical
soil survey. Everything was taken for
granted, with lamentable results. Beneath
a portion of the irrigation area —the quan-
tity is still gloriously indefinite —there is
a solid clayband through which the water
will not soak, wherefore crops which started
off well soon wilted. HoIM'AN promised that
the cases of settlers who could not make a do
of things would be thoroughly investigated
by a Judge as Commissioner. The next
step was the appointment of Judge
BevAN. His Honor made a searching-
inquiry, spending months on the job
and taking an enormous volume of
evidence. The Irrigation Commissioners
were represented to keep their end up.
Finally the Judge made a complete report,
advising certain compensation to different
settlers. In fact, so tough did he consider
the position that he made an interim report
in order that the Government might
lose no time in repairing the wrong
it had done. So it was thought the
matter was fixed up, and that part
of the public which took any notice
heaved a sigh of relief. But the Govern-
ment (at least the responsible Minister
says it is the Government; the settlers
swear it is the Minister and the Commis-
sioners) reviewed Bevan’s findings and
altered them out of recognition. This
brought the settlers up in opposition, and
the row proceeds. Amid a tangle of charge
and countercharge a few things stand out
prominently, and they are not creditable.
A Judge’s report, made after hearing sworn
evidence on the spot, has been over-ruled by
members of a Government who were not
on the spot; and the aggrieved parties had
no chance of rebutting the statements that
presumably caused the Cabinet to ignore
Bevan. This cannot be considered a fair
deal. It is claimed that many of the
affected settlers have taken the new terms
and that more would do so if allowed by
their Farmers’ Union. The reply is that
the settlers concerned have simply been
starved into taking what was offered, and
those who know the conditions at Yanko,
or for that matter those who read Bevan’s
report, know that this is more than feasible.
The Farmers’ Union demands a Board to go
into the whole question of redesigning the
area, or the greater part of it. The Gov-
ernment admits there is much that is wrong
by appointing a departmental Board to do
the redesigning where necessary. Seeing
that some of the men on this Board were
largely responsible for the botch that had
been made in the past, it is unreasonable to
expect it to be taken kindly by the settlers
who have suffered. There is obviously bit-
ter animosity between the Minister and
Commissioners on the one side and the
Farmers’ Union on the other. When
Geahame recently visited the area the
settlers refused to see him unless they had
their executive and solicitor with them,
which betokens a nice, affable position in
this mammoth State enterprise. The pre-
sent position is that Geahame has
announced his determination to stand by
the Government’s offer of settlement, which
the settlers can take or leave. If they don’t
take it those concerned will probably go
broke ; it is asserted that some of them will
go broke anyhow. Thus Bevan’s recommen-
dations resulting from evidence laid before
him don’t count, and the question naturally
arises, what was he appointed for? It is
hard to see how Holman can avoid
answering that question
■ »
The Lodger Who Refuses to Go Away.
Tiie multitudinous Cocked Hat of Australia
was being noticed in two places last week.
In London the Colonial Secretary explained
to the House of Commons that the British
Government did not propose to knock off
appointing State Governors. In the Speck
Assembly the casting vote of the Speaker
negatived a motion in favor of abolishing the
Governor’s job. Parenthetically it is ex-
plained that had several members been
present when the vote was taken, instead of
being away seeing somebody about a dog. the
motion would certainly have been carried.
It seems as if the time was about ripe for
the British Government to recognise that
there is a great yearning all over Australia
for relief from the tost of maintaining all
these gaudy officials, and that the community
would be intensely thankful to hear that
there were to be no more of them. Appa-
rently the aforesaid Government imagines
that the Seven Cocked Hats cause Australia
great joy, and contemplation of them sustains
our drooping spirits in the hours of crisis.
It is a weird delusion. There may be a few
in Australia who believe it is worth while
paying over £70,000 a year for decorative
lodgers. The Bulletin does not know for
certain whether even this is the case now.
But it does know that practically the whole
population, including those whose concep-
tions of civility induce them to vote in the
State Parliaments against deportation, con-
template the existing arrangements with sour
dislike. Really the British Government
ought not to take advantage of Australian
hospitality by pressing half a dozen super-
flous poultry-exhibition openers on the
population. The brutal truth is that the
country cannot afford it. _ No good purpose
is served by pretending either that it can.
This paper therefore solemnly urges Lloyd
George to rise to the occasion and announce
that, in view of the danger confronting the
Australian States of being eaten out of house
and home by individuals they had been asked
to entertain, the War Council had decided,
as a measure of precaution, to recall the
various outfits and request them to inhabit
their stately homes in England.
From Professor D. A. Welsh, of the Uni-
versity of Sydney:—
Judge Tleydon has given the Roman Catholics
of Australia an inspiring lead, and he has been re-
inforced by other men of high standing and of the
same religious faith. It has been said, however,
that the spiritual leaders of that great Church have
not supported his protest against recent attempts
to delude the loyal and to encourage the disloyal in
our midst. The memory of the people is notori-
ously short-lived. Little more than a year ago a
high dignitary of the Roman Catholic Church spoke
these momentous words : —■
We must think of the war and nothing but the
war until the is won.... This is a crisis....We
must be with the soldiers in spirit, we must
strengthen them by our prayers and share in their
sacrifices... .One weak link in a chain may make
the chain worthless. Any one class of society that
does not rise to its public duty in this crisis is
responsible, and responsible in a manifold sense.
You should be ashamed of yourselves if, when you
see soldiers drilling and marching, you go after
mere amusement. . . .Now, or at some other time, the
scourge of God will visit us, and bring us to a
proper sense of duty to our God and to society.
This war, continued the preacher, concerned Roman
Catholics above all others. The man who divided
society in the name of religion was guilty of a
double offence —an offence against society and against
God. So far as the Allies were concerned, the
present war was a defensive war. Great Britain
sought for peace, and was prepared to make sacri-
fices for peace, but was eventually forced to draw
the sword in defence of all that the people of the
Empire held dear in life. God’s blessing, he said,
was on that sword. He was reasonably convinced
that the Allies’ cause was the cause of justice.
The date of that stirring address was August 6,
1916. The occasion was a church-parade service at
St. Mary’s Cathedral, which was crowded. It is a
solemn pledge of the Roman Catholic Church to her
soldiers at the Front. It is a stern warning to those
who wallow in sedition or in selfishness. The man
who gave that pledge and uttered that warning was
Archbishop Kelly.
There is room in every religion for the ideals
which his words express. They reflect the highest
wisdom and the truest patriotism. No member of
the Roman Catholic Church can say that he has hac’.
no spiritual guidance when he recalls those words.
No member of another faith would not be proud to
work with those who follow that guidance.
If there was a crisis more than a year ago, there
is a more terrible crisis now. Many more Australian
homes have known the dread visitation of “the
scourge of God” since those words were spoken.
Every Australian man and woman will be asked on
the 20tli of December to approve or to disapprove
of Archbishop Kelly’s declaration —to support or to
forsake the men who think that his ideals are good
enough to fight for and to die for; to share in
their sacrifice or to pass by on the other side; to
vote “Yes” or to vote “No.”
♦
The Prime Minister’s abuse of everybody
who may be opposed to his views on the
question of compulsory service is as bad a
handicap as the movement to ensure re-
inforcements could possibly have. That the
defence of Australia is a thing which should
appeal as a primary duty to every Australian
democrat is beyond argument; but a man
who cannot understand that it is necessary to
defend Australia by fighting in Europe or
in Palestine is not necessarily a traitor, any
more than Hughes himself was a traitor
during that long period of the war when he
did exactly what his opponents are doing
to-day, and poured scorn upon those of us
who called for universal service. Put it
on even the lowest ground, and what a
deplorable thing it is that any who have not
yet grasped the position in its true b arings
should be antagonised and driven into the
other camp by the arrows of Billingsgate!
Every sane advocate of compulsory service
deplores this hysteria in the Prime Minister;
every opponent of the movement rejoices
at his exhibitions of spleen and hopes that
he will go farther and do worse. Is there no
possible way in which these plain and un-
pleasant facts can be made clear to the man
who, in the opinion of the majority of Aus-
tralians. by his words and actions robbed us
of all chance of success at the last Refer-
endum poll? With Hughes silent there is
still a fair chance of victory. But it will
be a pitiful thing if, when the numbers go
up, Australians are forced to shamefully
admit that nothing was learned from previous
experience, and that not once but twice an
unfortunate compound of abuse and hysterics
came between the nation and the calm and
deliberate performance of its duty.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
• ♦
“303” : The last table of sea losses shows
that the U-boats have bagged 642 vessels of
1600 tons and over since the middle of
February. Yet we are still sending copra
when we might send the needed ingredients
it contains, and despatching sinkable wheat
when we might send unsinkable flour. But
the crowning lunacy of the past three years
has been, and is, the carrying of scores of
thousands of tons of water, bone and sinew.
It dawned upon the Red Indian hundreds of
years ago that when he went any distance
from his buffalo herds it would be wise to
condense his tucker; hence pommican. But
it has never entered into the heads of the in-
capables who are running the business side
of this war that a carcase of frozen mutton
holds about 75 per cent, of water and 15 p.c.
of bone; and that the nutriment now sent in
six precious ships might go in one. It is no
longer a question of considering the frozen-
meat trade, the shipping trade, the copra
bugs, or any other form of insect, but of
feeding Great Britain and our soldiers. Non-
combatant England won’t starve if she
doesn’t eat meat, but the fighters must have
it, and plenty of it. Then why crowd out
the indispensable thing by stuffing the ships
with bone and water?


EM
C ThistrcLllcL '
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN’ at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Frnit Salads, Ices. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IN THE
CARTE
ROOMS
Supper.
dining hall, a la
ROOMS or PRIVATE
at Luncheon, Dinner or
I>atest Music.
Say or ’Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
n
r
St sm/ **
*
.
V*
nr
Excitement over a Noble Lord’s
Chilblains.
llather more notice seems to have been
taken in Europe and America of a letter
published by one of the London dailies from
Lord Lansdowne than of the surprise-party
which went for a trip through Yon Hin-
denburg's premises towards Cambrai. The
point of Lansdowne’s letter is that con-
tinuation of the war will bring the world
to ruin, and that meantime it would “stimu-
late the German peace party” to know—
(1) That the Allies do not desire the annihila-
tion of Germany as a Great Power;
(2) That the Allies do not seek to impose on the
German people a form of government other than
that of their own choice;
(3) That except as "“a legitimate war measure, the
Allies do not desire to deny Germany her place
among the great commercial communities;
(4) That the Allies after the war are prepared,
with the other Powers, to examine international
problems, including freedom of the seas ;
(5) That the Allies are prepared to enter a pact
on the question of international arbitration.
The trouble, of course, is that such announce-
ments stimulate the German war party. And
it is with that party that the Allies are
dealing—not with peace parties. The war-
aims of the German have never been specifi-
cally stated. The aims of the Allies have —
by Asquith and Lloyd George, by succes-
sive French Governments, by Woodrow
Wilson and by others. They are simple
enough, and the meaning of them is that, as
the German will not shift out of the terri-
tory his armies hold by conquest, he must be
pitched out. It is just there the difference
of opinion comes in. The Allies want a
peace based upon the restoration of terri-
tory and national rights and guarantees of
future immunity from crushing military
burdens. Germany wants a peace based on
the mangled map of Europe; and that is
too horrible to think about. Yet Lans-
downe’s letter is really a white flag; and
though Australians have been informed about
many of the observations made in repudia-
tion thereof, they are left without much in-
formation relating to the genesis of the
document. Lansdowne is a pretty big gun
in England, and as he seems to be getting
his tail down it can be taken as fairly cer-
tain that before he wrote that letter he had
detected a similar inclination among many
of his class. Events certainly have not been
cheerful of late. The penetration of the
fortifications beyond the Somme has turned
out to be a long way from the picturesque,
easily-achieved victory it was first repre-
sented to be. The British army there has
since been involved in a sanguinary
struggle, which at the moment of writing
was still in progress. The German appears
to have gathered his wasting man-power
together with great rapidity, and to have
thrown it at the intruders with an emphasis
suggesting that he had a lot more behind.
That he was badly mauled appears certain.
That the British troops had suffered greatly
and were having a hard job to hang on was
at the beginning of the week equally clear.
All this can be taken as one of the results of
the calamities in Russia, where the alleged
commander-in-chief has been exhorting the
forces to fraternise with the enemy and the
Government, such as it is, is starving the
army in the hopes that it will run off home
and not bother the Ilun any more. Occa-
sional yarns have been drifting through as
to the alleged intention of Berlin to strike
at France and Italy through Switzerland,
using the forces liberated from Russia to
put in a smashing blow before the United
States gets properly into the fray. There
are more unlikely occurrences than this.
The inducement is a powerful one. anyway.
Still, “if we exercise patience, endurance and
tenacity we will win,” says Lloyd George.
If we don’t, then the German military party
will. And after that we shall start to pay
the price.
It is no good making any bones about it—
at the back of the grinds of nine-tenths of
those who can’t see Why they should vote
Yes is a vague idea that it doesn’t really
matter' to Australia whether Germany is
licked or not. Most of these people have
known Germans. They were quite decent
people; we freely gave them votes; we
married with them : we invited them to come
to Australia; we even assisted them to come.
Tens of thousands of Australians don't be-
lieve that the victory of such people would
make things any worse for us than the vic-
tory of our own people. Xeither do ice!
And because of that we believe that nothing
is to be gained by abusing such Australians
and calling them disloyalists and traitors.
But they are quite wrong, for all that, and
it is necessary to prove it to them. They
judge Germany by the German whom then-
son or their daughter, their sister or their
brother married; by the German they were
quite ready to make a friend of. And we
shall never make them realise what the with-
holding of reinforcements means until we
convince them that the ruling military class
of Germany is no more like the peaceful Ger-
man they knew than a tiger is like a lamb.
These people are really in much the con-
dition of mind in which Woodrow Wilson
found himself early in the war. He could
not bring himself to believe that the German
ruling military class was such an entirely
different thing from the German people who
had emigrated to America. For nearly three
years the evidence against him piled up—
not newspaper evidence, but the testimony
of his own ambassadors. Then at last he
had to confess that there was a monster loose
in Europe utterly unlike the civilian German
he had known : a monster so full of menace
to the civilisation of the world and to the
rights of other nations that he was driven
to do the thing which of all things in the
world he was most loth to do, and declared
war. That ought to be a good enough lead
to. those who have been confused between
the German they knew and the German mili-
tary monster which the world was never
permitted to see until it was ready to spring,
and who in consequence have been indif-
ferent about the result.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Priob, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
♦
By whispers, nods, winks, mystery-monger-
ing and surreptitious speech, White Aus-
tralia is being brought into the argument
and presented as a reason for voting “Xo.”
Catts, a N. S. Wales member of the House
of Reps., seems to have been particularly
busy lately in giving the public to under-
stand that maintenance of the national Aus-
tralian policy turns upon the rejection of
compulsion. As a voluntaryist Catts has
also been busy announcing that voluntary
enlistment, “if properly encouraged,” will
provide reinforcements for the army. What
difference it would make to White Australia
if, in the event of voluntary recruiting not
yielding enough men to fill the blanks, the
necessary reinforcements were obtained by
compulsion, Catts has not explained. If
he honestly believes in this yarn of his then
he is a dullard. If he does not, and is
trading on the fears and the ignorance of
the crowd, then he is something worse. This
paper believes that he is merely dull,
incapable of envisaging the terrible signifi-
cance to the Commonwealth of the mighty
struggle. And in this respect he is not
singular; for it is deplorably true that, if
the ideal of a White Australia perishes, the
verdict of a later generation will be that
the funeral received great assistance from
that multitude of people who imagined that
White Australia implied nothing more than
adding a few lines to a statute and talking
a lot about it afterwards. The Bulletin,
which can at least claim as much right to be
heard on this subject of White Australia as
Catts. tells Australians now that this man
is talking rubbish. It is not only White
Australia that is in the melting-pot to-day
but All Australia ; and if Germany wins it
will not be for us to say whether Australia
shall be white or black or yellow or piebald.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
“Cedar Mop”: X. S. Wales Minister for
Agriculture Grahame intends making more
provision for training women farmers, which
is another example of a small politician get-
ting the cart before the horse. A few females
are now at Cowra State Farm, tackling a
man’s job of handling horses, ploughing,
sowing, reaping and the like. So far their
recommendation appears to be a willingness
to work double-shift to defeat a threatened
strike on the part of the men farm-hands —
which may be a virtue and may not. but is.
in many ways, not a promising start. Any-
how, it is a minor question beside the
national one of the wisdom of training
women to raise wheat instead of babies.
Men can attend to one job. but not the
other. If the women are to be working
farmers, raising babies,, or even having them,
will be out of the question, unless we are
to endure a detestable lowering of our social
standard; and if they are not to be working
farmers of what use training them? From
a national standpoint it is much better to
teach women about the breeding and diseases
o> babies than the breeding and diseases of
wheat, and if Grahame really wants to do
something useful he should barrack for more
training in domestic science and hygiene.
The woman trained to be a good farmer’s
wife, able to rear healthy young Austra-
lians. would be an asset of incomparably
greater value to the State than the lone
woman cocky.
“Bottle-and-Glass” upends:—
The amalgamation of the Sydney Ferries and the
Balmain Co. has revived the hopes of Balmain that
it will be run in and out of Circular Quay. The old
Balmain Co. tried for years to get this arranged, and
finally succeeded in persuading the Harbor Trust to
allow the Lane Cove boats to use No. 7 jetty; but,
on the ground that it would be dangerous for the
Balmain steamers to congest the traffic round Dawes
Point, the Trust wouldn’t allow the Balmain traffic
into the Quay. That decision has a chance of being
altered, for the big octopus has a way of getting
round the authorities. Some time ago a wharf was
built in Rose Bay and the residents naturally thought
that the Watson’s Bay co.’s steamer would call for
them. The wharf, however, was given over to the
Sydney Ferries for use in conjunction with their
Balmoral service, so if a passenger for Sydney em-
barks at Rose Bay he is given a joy ride to Clifton
Gardens and Athol, prolonging the run to the Quay
to nearly 50 minutes! To make this run the boats
must twice cross the whole of the inward- and out-
ward-bound harbor traffic below Bradley’s, which
means that it is then travelling at full speed. A
collision was reported last week. There were no
casualties, so that’s all right. Better luck next time.
Just before the new Parliament met it
was seriously suggested that Alec Peacock
should be comfortably bestowed in the Vic.
Speaker’s chair. But the joke was sup-
pressed, and J. E. Mackey, late Chairman
of Committees, followed Frank Madden in a
sort of natural succession.
From Government Meteorologist Hunt: —
“Geo. Logist” states (B. 29/11/’l7) that while at
Wvnbring (S.A.), on the East-West line, he saw a
newly-erected rain-gauge bearing the inscription:
“R. Fuess, Steiglitz, Berlin, No. 129. System
Mellmann-Fuess.” I should like to say that I am
solely responsible for the German rain-gauge objected
to. It was purchased before the war, and that par-
ticular pattern was adopted because at the time it
was the most efficient known.
The graduates of Adelaide University
have resolved (32 to 6) that the
two enemy scientists who fell to Adelaide’s
share for honorary degrees when the
Science Congress met there in August,
1914, ought to be solemnly wiped off the
roll. Bronte Smeaton and Magarey and
Poulton, all medical men, pushed the motion
forward, and the protests of two professors
that science is not militarism and that the
proposed action would not hurt the Kaiser
were lost in the crush of “Remember Lou-
vain !” sentiment.
“Charlie”: After the fall of Bapaume—
and you can have my word that we had a
nervy time —we were marching back along
the Baupaume-road when we came upon a
mounted military policeman—shiny buttons,
polished boots and all the rest of it. Says
a Billjim behind me in a relieved voice:
“Thank God, we’re safe at last!”
Along the danger lines the stay-aways are
known as “the stokers”—because they keep
the home fires burning.
“Melb”: The appointment of J. C. V.
Behan as head of Trinity College, succeeding
Beeper, gives universal satisfaction. Behan,
now 36 years old, was the first Victorian
Rhodes scholar, and his academic record is
unsurpassed by that of any member of Mel-
bourne University. Entering Trinity Col-
lege (Melb.) in ’9B he won through-
out his course of education here and
at Oxford an enormous number of
honors, the money value of his prizes
being about £3OOO. At University College,
Oxford, after winning a scholarship, he
became a lecturer, and then Dean. He is an
Australian, and so is his wife.
Mrs. Gormly, dead at Wagga (N.S.W.),
was born at Gobarralong station, near the
junction of the Murrumbidgee and Tumut
rivers, in 1838, when there was no village
between Yass (N.S.W.) and Batman’s
camp on the Yarra. Her father, Joseph
Cox, grew the first wheat on the Murrum-
bidgee. The lady’s husband was Jim Gormlv.
M.L.C., of Wagga.
The official who counts up the Ma State’s
sins finds that during the 12 months to the
end of June the old girl’s grog bill was
£6.667,000, the lowest since 1912. and a
decrease for the year of £579.000. The bill
increased progressively from 190 S to 1914.
both as regards total and amount per head,
but declined in both particulars during the
two succeeding years. Consumption of
spirits decreased generally since 1913, but
the falling-off applied particularly to im-
ported nose-illuminants; home-grown re-
vivers—especially rum—rose as much as 77
per cent. But the record of wine production
won t prove cheerful to barrackers for this
Australian industry. Consumption has gone
steadily down ; in X. S. Wales in the three
years ended June 30. 1917, the output was
only 580.000 gallons as compared with
967,000 10 years ago. The statistician piles
the responsibility for the recent shrinkages
on to the departure of Billjim. the restric-
tion of imports owing to high freights and
transport difficulties, and (especially) early
closing of pubs and high prices.
Three years behind time and a heap of
money over the estimate, the new Ridgewav
reservoir was opened the other dav. and the
Speck's capital ought to be safe from a
water famine for a while. The new pond is
the 12th biggest reservoir in Australia, with
a capacity of 207.900.000 gallons, while the
two more elderly reservoirs hold onlv
100.000.000 gallons put together.
[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else. S. H. Prior. John
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Svd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEFr
Criterion ~ lv -
Her Majesty's ’. ’ ‘<tr Cheaters”
Lyceum lhe Re <i Widow”
Tivoli Mci itTsh’c vj Sl ? Days
Union Theatres K a . u< 3eville Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WFrt-
Her Majesty’s ERK '
King’s . .” rs - Dot”
SS* o.
Melba" 0 . .'.7.7.'.'.'.7.7. *}° V1 >
Britannia Dctures
"The Red Widow” reached Sydney Maie
ty’s on Monday, instead of Saturday- 77
all the first-night fanatics were there t,,
deafen the returned Royal Comics with an
Australian welcome. The Widow has been
a long time getting to Pitt-street, and the
fact that the monarchical system of Russia
has gone downstream since she started mars
the old bomb-throwing joke and ruins the
soldier-hero’s patriotic song in which
bellows his devotion to a Czar who has
gone out of that business and is at present
trying to open a coffee-stall in Japan while
daughter Tatiana is making for the U S \
to do cabaret dancing {vide latest fake
cables). Another destroying effect of real
war is to make heavily-braided green hussars
in tight riding-pants with muffs on theh
heads merely suggest new grasshoppers or
unemployed acrobats. Even in his plain
walking-out uniform. Reg Roberts, who does
the out-of-date saluting and sword-waring
resembles a rag-shop commissionaire or
superior chauffeur. Widow Florence Young,
in excellent voice and gowned and corseted
like a * dressmaker’s dream of Heaven, pre-
"CHEATING CHEATERS .” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
John de Lacey as
Steve Wilson.
Herbert Leigh as
Holmes, detective.
tends to be a fascinating she-Nihilist; but
her natural amiability shines out between
the lines and makes a fireside jest of the
melodramatic notion. Phil Smith, the other
pillar of the show, is an elderly corset-
making Yank from Yorkshire or somewhere
adjacent; so his devotion (expressed in
song) to the good old Stars and Stripes
seems a mere amiable eccentricity. Minnie
Love, of the appealing sob songs, gets a
chance when she burlesques the new per-
former whose dancing isn't quite as bad as
her singing. Leslie Holland prances ele-
gantly with her. Nellie Payne hovel's in
the background in a pretty frock or two-
one at a time, as far as this paper knows—
and smiles radiantly at the chocolate-
chewers. Maie Baird and Cyril Ritchards
are the star dancers. The music is jinglr:
the dresses and scenery elaborate. As re-
gards the intervals, put the two together and
they would make a honeymoon.
Of one of Sydney’s two big annual picture-
shows :
The Society of Artists’ exhibition at the Queen
\ ietoria Markets, opened on Saturday, is in ever}
color except khaki. Judging by the efforts made b.'
a recent show the reticence is wise.
The exhibition is smaller than usual; but the
average quality is thereby raised. The section
devoted to the students and beginners—by which the
future of our art is to be judged—shows promise
everywhere. Don't Black’s “Pink Sunshade’’ is the
most charming of this highly-interesting section.
H. Gallop has much to learn yet, but the promise is
there. Norman Lloyd’s shipping is cleverly painted
in a slapdash way. J. R. Eldershaw’s work is


O
YC
bOORD & SON
VJ LOMDON. ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. GARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS.
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT.
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four months —Instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especially for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OF £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Oept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
\SMSsm
“Warrigal” Australian Underwear.
WARRICAL
You men who are keen Australians—you who know that we
MUST foster Australian Industry—here is your opportunity to
procure real Australian Underwear, introduced by Peapes (a
house famous for QUALITY goods) and sold under their own
registered trade-mark and label. Equal to imported—costs
less!
LIGHTWEIGHT NATURAL WOOL.
UNDERSHIRTS—
-34. 36. 38. 40. 42. 44.
9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6
This registered label is UNDERPANTS (to match)
attached to every 9/6 10/ . 10/6 IJ; _ 11/6 t 2 /.
garment . W e pay postage. Send for our latest catalogues*.
Peapes & Co Ltd ,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 George Street, Sydney.
happily freeing itself from the Ililder influence,
which was beginning to amount to obvious imitation.
The outstanding features of the exhibition are
Norman Lindsay’s masterly gallery painting and his
exquisite water-colors, Hardy Wilson’s marvellous
pencil drawings and his delightful water-colors, a
few of Hans Heysen's paintings, Florence Rodway’s
pastels, and the high quality of the etching and
black-and-white gallery.
Howard Ashton’s brilliant method is in danger of
being lost-or-strayed in pastel. Only one of his
works is in oil, and that is the best of his biig
assortment, though in some of his smaller pastels he
has achieved a restrained dignity. The striking
exhibit of W. B. Mclnnes is not up to the Mel-
bourne artist's highest standard. This Australian
scene is all in one tone, and possesses a stereoscopic
cow —one that exists without atmosphere and can
almost be seen all round. Yet the big picture is
brilliantly handled and charmingly composed. Nor-
man Lindsay’s composition of “The Student's Mis-
tress” is his masterpiece in oil. The flesh-painting
of the nude is wonderfully handled ; the whole thing
is throbbing with life. Its only defect is a weakly-
painted hand. This picture may be termed a
. Norman Lindsay Nude that Needn’t Annoy. It
ought to be in the N. S. Wales Gallery. Lindsay’s water-
colors are a delight of arrangement and color and
virtuosity and imagination. Two Greek designs are
the cheekiest and most entrancing things yet painted
in Australia ; and these are but a couple out of 20
piquant reconstructions of half a dozen centuries.
Unfortunately a number of spectators mistook the
head on the salver in “The Daughter of Herodius”
for a fashionable feather hat. Hardy Wilson’s great
pencil drawings of early Australian architecture need
no criticism. Many of his water-colors are exquisite.
Hans Heysen’s smaller gum-tree stuff and a more
conventional farmyard are more commendable than
his rather thin paintings of travelling sheep. Harry
J. Weston’s large decoration, poster-like but bril-
liant, should be acquired by a shipping company
unless it is snapped up by the Wharf-Lumpers’ Union
to grace its debates in the Trades Hall.
The etchers most prominent in a brilliant section
are Lionel Lindsay, Sydney Ure Smith, Fred A.
Campbell and Lloyd Rees. The N. S. Wales Gallery
wisely purchased the work of the latter two. Nor-
man Lindsay’s dramatic drawings dominate all the
other black-and-white work. One, “To the Poems
of Leon Gellert,” is a treasure still unaccountably
available for the Gallery or an art-lover. Bernice
Edwell has some delightful miniatures, and Florence
Mofflin some dainty fans. One by Myra Cocks, too,
deserves mention. Florence Rodway’s exhibit of
pastel-portraits is regrettably small, but of the
highest quality. The one flaw in an excellent show
is the unavoidable absence of E. Gruner.
“Never deceive your audience,” you’re
told in the third of the 20 lessons in which
the Correspondence School undertakes to
teach you more about writing dramas than
Shakspeare ever knew. But sometimes it
pays to break the rule; and Max Marcin,
the author of “Cheating Cheaters,” pro-
duced at Sydney Criterion on Saturday, has
made the experiment of deceiving his audi-
ence all through. Not so clever as “Seven
Keys to Baldpate,” the plot in this latest
farce has its legitimate surprises, though its
illegitimate surprises are more numerous. It
is a play that won’t bear analysing after
the curtain is down; it is a play that the
most hardened devotee to crook drama
couldn’t sit out a second time. For apart
from its flimsy substructure, this is a crook
drama—the very crookedest of crook
dramas. Practically every person on the
stage is a crook. The only good point about
“Cheating Cheaters” is that it is the climax
of crookdom. After this, there won’t be any
crook play left to write, and another
of the great national industries of the
U.S.A. will follow the wooden-ham to the
garbage-tin. As “Cheating Cheaters” de-
pends solely upon the surprises of its plot,
its plot cannot in fairness be discussed. The
only hint that need be given to the audience
is to suspect every character on the stage
of being somebody or something else—and,
maybe, somebody or something else after
that.
Of course, Kathlene Macdonell and
Charles Waldron are thrown away in this
machine-made plot. The author allows no
scope for character, though the opportunities
for caricature are numerous. Charles A.
Workman frequently forgets that he is not
in a musical play; John de Lacey trans-
forms himself into a megaphone; and Emma
Temple, Eily Malyon, Beryl Bryant, Roy
Redgrave and Arthur Cornell provide plau-
sible presentations of various species of
crooks. Kathlene Macdonell’s dresses afford
a vogue relief.
*
Allan Wilkie is still On Leave at Sydney
Grand Opera House.
** * *
Delmore and Lee, aerial gymnasts, head
Sydney Tivoli bill this week. When they
get going, they are two flying white figures
risking their bones for a suitable salary
against a background of dark curtains. The
Harlans, balancers and equilibrists, also
help to make summer audiences dizzy.
Rogero, the Human Puzzle, imitates motor-
cars and other ancient and modern noises.
George Welch and Rego have revived “The
Painters” burlesque, the grotesque Camille
Trio whirl and whoop on the horizontal
bars, and Reynolds and White continue to
be decorative, humorous and musical.
Sydney Royal isn’t the coolest theatre in
the world; so a super-heated first-night pic-
ture audience, gazing entranced at the pale-
green screen, envied the divers in “Twenty
Thousand Leagues Under the Sea,” as they
trudged along the sea-floor against a strong
current. The submarine photography of the
Williamson brothers lends new interest to
this film version of old Jules Verne’s pro-
pheticx yarn, which makes the latter half of
a good three-hour programme. The photo-
graphy in the interesting American naval
pictures is unusually good.
* ■'.• + n
Of the three principal characters in the
film version of Caine’s “Manxipan” at
Sydney Crystal Palace, Fred Groves’s Pete
“As You Like It,” at
Melbourne King's.
Arthur Bertram as
the country lover.
stands easily first,
conveying the fine
simplicity and hon-
est strength of the
husband who was
betrayed. The wild
scenery of the Isle
of Man is finely
pictured, and all
the details of cos-
tume and ancient
customs have been
carefully attended
to. At Iloyt’s, Olga
Petrova is another
reformed character;
at the Strand,
Pauline Frederick
is consumed with
“Sleeping Fires”;
andValeska Suratt,
at the Ilaymarket,
is “The Immi-
grant” who is
growing white lilies
to heap over the
skeleton in her cup-
board.
The Bert Bailey production of “As You
Like It,” at Melbourne King’s, is not com-
parable pietorially to the Oscar Asche repre-
sentation in 1909 or the George Musgrove
version five or six years earlier, but students
will probably consider it more truly Shaks-
pearean because it prefers to charm the ear
without overloading the eye. Still, admit-
ting the commanding importance of the text,
the present management might have been
less perfunctory in the arrangement of the
landscape. The prime offender is part of
the Forest of Arden, comprising a backcloth
of mellow autumnal elms with a foreground
of green stuff whereof tree-ferns are con-
spicuous features. It suggests Fern Tree
Gully in front and Fitzroy Gardens behind,
and conveys none of the brooding majesty of
the place in which several marvels come to
pass.
Apart from this shortcoming, the perform-
ance has some interesting and agreeable
qualities. A. E. Greenaway, as Jaques,
again provides the most satisfactory imper-
sonation. His Jaques is a short, scanty
man with a stealthy tongue, who mixes much
benevolence with his melancholy and seems
genuinely saddened by his superiority over
his fellows. lie delivers the great Seven
Ages speech with a contemplative air, as if
his hinter-brain were considering a new
meaning he had discovered in the harsh fact
of human existence. Gerald Souper comes
next for a naif and boyish Touchstone ani-
mated by the inconsequential fantasy of the
piece. lie looks like an unlikely partner
for Audrey, whom Rubee Raymond makes
unbelievably rustic and afflicts with an over-
powering taste for turnips. lan Maclaren
is a tall, good-looking Orlando, but he car-
ries himself with a nonch lance near to
negligence and lacks the air of victory that
enlivens Rosalind. Probably Maclaren
doesn’t find his Rosalind inspiring; and
Miss Sutcliffe would hardly induce any
Orlando to squeeze the last drop of honey
out of his speeches. She is a Rosalind of
threatening maturity, who talks Shakspeare
in mouthfuls and proffers for the delicate
winsomeness of girlhood the simpering fool-
ishness of an amorous aunt. Richard Bel-
lairs doubles the parts of Duke Frederick
and First Lord to the Banished Duke, and
maintains a vocal decorum in the latter
role which his Duke would do well to follow.
Bryant’s subterranean bass rumbles like
young earthquakes in the interior of the
Banished Duke; and Ned Duggan is an
Adam who is tottering in palsied feebleness
to the grave. Fred . Ivehoe has no special
subtlety or magnetism as Oliver, and Har-
court Hare, as Le Beau, gets rid of his lines
in an ill-considered fashion. Miss Rosslyn
Vane (Oelia) has an occasional gleam of
mischief and bears herself well; Hugh (or
is it Thew?) McCrae strips like a gladiator
for the part of Charles and appears a better
rastler than his conqueror, Maclaren, who
works at catch-as-catch-can as if it was a
conundrum and he was trying to guess it.
The singing is divided between Miss Donald
Dulcie, Miss Sutton Vida and Miss T’whetu
Keiha, the last-mentioned making a shapely
Amiens. Next Saturday the company
finishes up with “David Garrick,” preceded
by the Trial scene from “The Merchant of
Venice.”
* * $
The gentle art of getting married is lightly
surveyed in Somerset Maugham’s comedy,
“Mrs. Dot,” which was presented at Mel-
bourne Royal on Saturday. The piece deals
with an absurdly eligible widow, Mrs. “Dot”
Worthley, and an agreeable young bachelor,
Gerald Ilalstane, who are apparently pre-
vented from celebrating their mutual pas-
sion at the altar by the gentleman’s prior
engagement to Nellie Sellenger, a lady ruth-
lessly pushed into his arms by a match-
making mamma. Gerald’s acceptance of
the position only carries conviction on the
assumption that he is morally bound to a
flapper to whom he had paid some serious
attentions; still it affords a tolerable basis
for a play that maintains its note of comic
adventure by a liberal misuse of ordinary
human relations. In real life Gerald and
Nellie would probably never consent to be
mated like royalties or cattle after a court-
ship of unparalleled boredom; but Somerset
Maugham represents them as drifting
towards matrimony with a helpless regard ior
the decorum that is supposed to rule these
arrangements. Being unable to disengage
themselves, they are therefore intrigued into
separation by a well-known game in which
Mrs. Dot wins the victory, and her young
nephew, Freddie Perkins, gains the booby
prize. As this prize is Nellie, with a
cheque for £5OO and a promise of £2OOO a
year from his affluent aunt, Freddie is almost
as well satisfied as his fashionable relative
who gets the desired Gerald with a peerage
of great value.
The piece is a comedy of pretty English
and passe technique, played gallantly by a
company whose solemn duty apparently is to
give a splendid resurrection to the mots and
mottoes interred in the dialogue. Miss Ethel
Morrison, as Lady Sellenger, is most indus-
trious in the exhumations, and utters smart
sayings like dogmas. She might be one of
those horrible dowagers in the O. Wilde
comedies who destroy your confidence in
Truth by perverting plain proverbs. Miss
Marie Tempest quite rightly plays Mrs. Dot
as a dash or an interjection, considering that
“As You Like It ,” at
Melbourne King's.
A. E. Greenaway as
Jagues.
the lady is a
brewer’s widow and
is supposed to
affect a sort of
lagered frivolity.
It is a gay study,
but kept diverting
by a return to the
mannerisms which
appear to be the
alphabet of Miss
Tempest’s art. Miss
Nancye Stewart
has a small routine
job as Nellie Sel-
lenger; and Hugh
Iluntley, as her
young man. is no
better placed.
Frank Harvey, as
Gerald, hasn’t the
subtlety to camou-
tiage his emotions,
and all Iris finesse
is in his clothes.
But Graham
Rrowne scores
another pleasing
success. He fur-
nishes a neat etch-
ing of one of those
compromising Englishmen who are correct
in all their attitudes and part their brains
in the middle.
The hunt for scraps of paper in Maud
Fane’s slippers continues unabated at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s. The collection of Maud’s
footwear also proceeds apace, and fatuous
adorers can now have the articles auto-
graphed by paying half a crown. This
hardly has much bearing on “You’re in
Love,” but it is about as relevant as every-
thing else. The show is one of those hearty
extravaganzas wherein any absurdity is not
out of place.
** * *
The Beauty Shop is now open at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, and Marie King-Scott is the
unsophisticated dame who confronts the
face-fakir in her lair. Marie would be much
better off in the quaint child garments in
which she originally escaped from her New
England farm, but she manages to get ail
occasional laugh out of her co-conspirators’
efforts to give her faded cheek the bloom of
the peach. The Sheldons are reappearing in
their tumbling turn, and Niemann and Ken-
nedy are foraging in the lingerie department
with all their tactful ambiguity and clean
sense of fun. Of the newcomers the least
satisfactory are the Satinettos, whose trick-
picture business, with lumps of painted
cloth, appears the more trivial for its pre-
tentious setting. Signor Roger, a silvery
tenor, gets into the motley in “Pagliacci”
with, no more emotion than if he were put-
ting on his collar. Joe Blascheck, however,
is a welcome reappearer. His little vignettes
of character are very delicate, and his senti-
ment is as gentle as lambkins at play. Also,
Ethel Vaugn seems roguishly attractive in
her unaffected songs and imitations. With-
out committing itself too far, The Bul-
letin would say that knowing Ethel would
be a bit of a lark.
Iloyt’s, Melbourne, is the Abode of Love
this week. In the star feature, “The Lifted
Veil,” Ethel Barrymore advertises the great
emotion with hot, hungry hugs and brilliant
eye-play. Ethel appears as a damsel who
misbehaves, but finds her motto of “Once
giddy, twice shy,’’ somewhat embarrassing in
subsequent attachments. Hugger-mugger
also becomes feverish in Hoyt’s other master-
piece, “The Great Bradley Mystery.”
Herein two lads struggle for the kisses of a
maiden, and the battle seesaws for 4000 ft.
before Fate helps the hero to the feast.
The movie story of “The Barrier,” at
Melbourne Majestic, contains more concen-
trated action than the stage version which
has been presented once or twice in these
parts. Moreover, the real scenery which
provides the various backgrounds shows that
Nature builds pictures much better than
Man. The cast is also strong, the biggest
character being ’Poleon of the Great Heart,
who is played by a lovely creature possessing
all the physical equipment of a flapper’s
dream. The film measures 7000 ft., and is
being screened by arrangement with E. J.
Carroll.
“The Woman Thou Gavest Me” concludes
its cosmopolitan career at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s on Saturday. After that, the theatre
will be closed until 22nd inst., when Allan
Wilkie is to reappear in a new shriek deco-
rated with rapiers and Cavalier curls.
The biggest show of the week in Adelaide
has been a mixed affair called a “Gala” at
the Royal, lent by the Williamson Co. It
had nearly all the good and bad qualities of
that kind of event. The orchestra —from
lack of rehearsals, probably—did not always
find the performers in step w2h it, and too
much was on the programme, so that
towards the end things got ragged, and one
or two items had to be cut out or rushed at
a late hour. But there were many joyful
spots, and the scenery —futurist or impres-
sionist—of Frank Williams deserves a
special note. The Tivoli is having solid
success with “The Rosary”; Harrington
Reynolds’s study of the Priest has been
seen before and is worth seeing again. The
Anderson Co. is giving it another week.
Branseombe. of the old Dandies, has moved
across North Terrace to find a location at
Austral Gardens for a new 7 summer team
which he calls Pierrots, while his old pitch
at the Exhibition Gardens is occupied by a
rival crowd of Jesters. Good concerts are
everywhere, and among the pictures “The
Whip” remains the most striking thing in
sight. It has been moved from West’s to
the Pav. and played frequently, or oftener.
“Norbell” : I have seen two Hamlets that
“Glen H” (B. 8/11/*l7) did not record—
Fred Appleton and George S. Titheradge.
Probably there are many others. One
Parker Hall depressed the Melbourne sub-
urbs a few years ago with the Dane at 6d.
a time.
Chirgwin, “the White-eyed Kaffir,” is still
going strong in the London ’alls. Lately the
young spark has, in addition to vaudeville,
taken to posing for the movies.
“T. 0.1.” : The life story of Thomas Asche
is recalled by the abandonment of the Im-
perial Hotel license in Wynyard-square, Syd-
ney. The father of Oscar Asche was born in
1826 in Norway, and received his education
at the Christiania University, where he
graduated as a barrister in 1851. Arriving
at Melbourne in 1853, he turned from the
law to trade, ran a store at Ballarat, and did
a good business as a gold-buyer. For five
years he kept the Scandinavia Hotel
(attached to which I fancy was a music-hall
or theatre), and for four years the Camper-
down. Followed two years devoted to land-
jobbing ; then he visited Geelong and took
Mack’s Hotel, where Oscar was born (June
26, 1872). Four years later he reached Mel-
bourne, and for eight years was host of the
Union Club Hotel, at the corner of Collins
and Market streets, the site of Johnny Fawk-
ner’s Shakspeare Hotel. In 1885 he crossed
to Sydney, took the Royal Hotel in George-
street, and from there went to the Imperial
in Wynyard-square, when the curtain fell.
For “Poverty Point ” see Page J/0.


You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn't matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of puritv of a freshly-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
your own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely ' harmless to the mcst delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
DSHER'S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, tu* -
under the management of Hos
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare faioi-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. P at
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“The Recruiting-Officer”: I hadn't strucK
a man worth having for five days, and was
beginning to think I was no longer of any
value to my country, when I came upon him
standing in Swanston-street, gazing at a
party of lads in khaki marching behind the
drums. He was from Croajingolong, or
elsewhere equally remote, and the traces of
ANYTHING FOR A CHANGE.
“That’s my brother behind us. He’s quite
the opposite to me. Ever met him?”
“No—but I’d love to.”
the wilderness were all over him ; but he
was close up 6ft., and as fine a lump as an
instructor could hope to set eyes on. “What
about it. Ned?” I said. “Why don’t you
chip in with these? You’d make a s tiptop
soldier.” He looked at me ruefully. “I’d
go,” he said, “but I ain't got a brown suit!”
“Hamer”: The British Bung has long
ceased to worry about curtailed drinking
hours: he is too busy thinking out ways and
means of dodging the Excess Profits Tax and
similar worries of the rich. Pubberies that
in old times had a hard struggle for exist-
ence are now gold-mines. The licensee has
sawn lumps off his labor and lighting exes.;
but the public has much the same thirst as
formerly, and very much more money to
spend upon it. With liquor shortage as
an excuse, the prices of all drinks have
soared, the publicans making their own
prices, practically, and getting a larger
profit, comparatively, upon the unfilled
space in the glass. To give the public a
chance, the State has introduced a Goveim-
ment beer which ought to be sold at 2sd.
a pint. Though it isn’t a beer to celebrate
in song it is very much better than Bung
would have his customers believe. To help
it he is prepared to strengthen it with a
small dash of bitter, the charge for “mild
and bitter” being 4d. As “bitter” is sd. or
Gd. a half-pint this is highly profitable, and
Bung is so insistent on serving the mixture
that only hardy, shameless drinkers dare
brave his scorn by asking for the cheap Gov-
ernment stuff undefiled.
. * * *
The long and cranky arm of the Law!
On June 15 a Seymour (Vic.) jeweller’s shop
was robbed. Two soldiers from the adjacent
camp were arrested and convicted, but in
view of the fact that they were about to
leave for the Front sentence was suspended,
and they are now, with the Court’s sanction,
well on their way to France. But there was
a third soldier from the same camp who was
suspected of complicity, and a warrant was
issued for him. Before he could be arrested
he sailed for England on a troopship. Far
from considering itself well rid of him, the
lopsided Law put the wireless in motion, and
the message reached the transport when it
was two days from a distant port. The sol-
dier was landed, and was brought back from
England to Australia under guard, to appear
in Melbourne City Court. As, on the show-
ing of the previous cases, the Law sees noth-
ing wrong in tbe ethics of swelling the ranks
of the A.I.F. with convicted thieves, it can-
not do less, even if he be found guilty, than
order him back to England at top speed.
And what it expects to gain by such circum-
ambulation, only the Law can tell. Appar-
ently no trouble is too great for Horsehair
to take once it divines that some unautho-
rised person is tryin~ to save it trouble and
expense.
* * * *
Townsville the other day heard a Judge
pass sentence of death on a girl of 16 who
“showed no sign of feeling the slightest sor-
row or regret” for what she had done.
Nothing that lie could say, the Judge added,
was “likely to reach the child’s intelligence
at present”; yet he had no option but to
record sentence of death —a sentence which
he kn e w and
everybody else
knows will not be
carried out. Ryan
the Reformer has
here a job calling
loudly to be done.
On the evidence
the jury had to
find this abnor-
mal child guilty
of murder; all it
could do besides
was to recom-
mend mercy. And
the Judge had no
option but to at
least record sen-
fence of death. If it were only
a solemn farce the matter would
not be so serious; but unques-
tionably, when a Judge has to
pass sentence of death in a
case in which it is quite clear
that the death penalty would be
monstrous, the average jury will
hesitate to find a prisoner guilty, though
satisfied that she should not have her
liberty. It is no use telling a jury that
it has nothing to do with the punishment
to be awarded. Nine times out of 10 it
will decline to say: “We are strongly
of opinion that this person should not
be hanged, but we hand him over to you
with authority to hang him if you feel
that way.” The law as it stands in
Queensland is not fair to judge, jury or
Executive, and because it is liable to lead
to miscarriages of justice it is not fair either
to the community.
* * * *
Lots of things happen after dinner; and
the funeral wreath which lately caused a
commotion in Queensland politics was one
of them. The idea to present Vowles with
a wreath was actually incubated at a dinner-
party at which the M.L.A. was present some
of the time. The card attached to
the wreath was “Misunderstood—from His
Friends.” a reference, of course, to the
recent Wando Vale row T . Then a second
jolly party got into the joke, and
reckoned that there would be more
punch in it if Premier Ryan’s name was
attached. So Ryan’s name was written on
a wine card, by a man who didn’t know
Ryan—he isn’t even a Queenslander —and
that was what was attached when Vovvles
took delivery at the House. It was a sur-
prised party which learned later on that
Vowles had added his own card to the joke
and passed the thing along, until finally it
adorned the doorstep of the Premier’s pri-
vate house. *
Petty-Officer Pincott, who lately came
home to Melbourne on furlough, was one of
IN HER THOUGHTS.
THE OLD HUBBY : “I say, weren’t you a hit
rough on me to-night? You didn’t
come near me once.”
THE NEW WIFE : “Oh, how can you say
that, dear? You weren’t out of my
thoughts all night.”
HIM AGAIN : “Oh, that’s likely enough—I
noticed you kept one eye on me.”
the special corps of 500 armored-car fighters
sent from Britain to give the Bear a hand.
After divers adventures (including being
ice-bound for a winter in Lapland) the cars
went to Galicia, and were part of the rear-
guard that vainly tried to hold things
together on that cataclysmic day when the
rot set in among the Russian regiments.
Hear I'incott hint at the horror: —-
Some of those Russian officers proved themselves
if ever men did... .They showed the men who refused
to fight that they at least knew how to die. “Nemel-
ski cavalaire!” (“The German cavalry are upon
us!”) was the one mad cry. Not hundreds, not
thousands, but millions of men on the run! The
Russians went back 100 miles in a few days. Still
with the same mad cry they kept on running, run-
ning—to they didn’t know where. Anything in the
way was cast aside. Cars and carts got mixed up
in the crush and the rush down the narrow roads,
and when, 50 miles behind, we were forced to come
after them, we saw T signs of the debacle everywhere.
It was absolute chaos. The Cossacks attempted to
quell the fears, but without success. We were fight-’
ing rearguard actions all the time. We lost 12 cars
in the retreat.
Pincott (who belongs to the Naval Air
Squadron and holds the D.C.M. and Russian
Order of St. George) and five fellow-officers
have permission to stay in Australia seven
weeks. Then they must be off to report at
Petrograd—if there is any Petrograd by
that time.
* * * *
Though you’d never suspect it, they are
gay dogs in the little toy Parliament of the
Speck. Just because he went to sleep on a
Government bench the other night members
held a “wake” over Arthur Cotton, the
member for Franklin. Surrounded by nine
candles and wearing a white habit, impro-
vised from a tablecloth, the statesman snored
for 20 minutes. This is the second wake
held within 12 months. Sometimes, like
other infants, they lose their little tempers—
as when a few nights later an ex-Minister of
Lands and an officer .of the House started
throwing good liquor at one another in the
refreshment-room. Glasses followed, but
when they finally got into “holts” their con-
dition gave out. Nurse was, however, very
annoyed about that; and like the good fellow
he is the ex-Minister shouldered the blame
next day and apologised.
‘•Feng Shui”: China ia a land ot
contrasts. She still sometimes sews Z
malefactors up in raw hides and mince* hT
slowly into a thousand pieces or Jfl
witnesses kneel upon chains to stimiSf
the,.- memory. But the other side of fh
picture was seen the other day when
dozen desperadoes, led by a notorious ex
bandit named Kao Wu, attempted to L i
out of the Model Prison in Peking. t0 Of S
,00 other inmates not one attempted to
avai himself of the opportunity to make a
break foi liberty, and many assisted the
guards in restoring order
This Model Prison, by the
way, is the most interesting
bit of New China. I a the
orthodox Chinese prison dirt,
starvation and disease inflict
as much misery as the bru-
tality of the gaolers. W a n°-
Yuan-cheng, who is 39 years
of age and a fine specimen
of Young China, established
the Model Prison just after
the Revolution four years
ago. It started with a'cani-
tal of $5OOO, grudgingly
appropriated by the authori-
ties. To-day it has a bal-
ance in the bank of $30,000
The prison is clean, orderly
and quiet. Regular exer-
cis e s, baths, elementary
schooling and training in
various arts and crafts are
given the inmates. The
products of the workshops
pay for the whole upkeep,
and there is outside the walls
a growing community of ex-
malefactors who owe their
new start in life to the in-
fluence of their prison train-
ing. The Chinese is by nature
law-abiding. Only economic
conditions make him a crim-
inal ; and the experience and
records of this prison are
invaluable to statisticians.
Extra-territoriality, whereby
foreigners can only be tried
and punished by their own
nationals, is a reproach
which patriotic Chinese feel
keenly. This is the first step towards wiping it
out, together with those awful cages wherein
miserable creatures, with knees pressed
against their chins, eat amongst their own
excreta waiting for their bodies to rot into
a merciful dissolutioto. Asia moves slowly,
but she moves.
“T. 0.1.”: St. Philip’s Church, Sydney,
owes its name to Governor Phillip; St.
John’s, Parramatta, to Governor John
Hunter; St. David’s, Hobart, to Governor
David Collins; St. James’s, Melbourne, to
James Smith, who succeeded George Lang-
horne in the position of lay-reader, or
teacher, in a wooden building where St.
James's was afterwards built, and before
any Anglican clergyman visited Port Phillip.
James Smith, agent for a colonial house, had
been purser on a man-of-war. He had by
him n choice stock of sermons, which he had
used before, and which he read again and
again with great fervor. As a reward for
his pioneer services the new church was
named St. James’s.
SHE'S STILL THINKING ABOUT IT.
“And will you love me just as much when
I’m older and plainer?”
“My dear, you can’t help growing older
and — er — you'll never grow plainer!"
RETURNED.
[FOR THEBULLETIN.]
I sit alone with folded hands
As morning weaves her gentle strands
Of tired memories ;
And through the room I see the light
Dance Laughter down the curtains white
And touch my quiet knees.
I hear the children shout and play,
Mouth-merry all the bluebell day,
With many a mirth-mad yell.
I cannot fit myself to these,
The fire, the warmth, the cool, sweet ease
And the clean, home-made smell.
For through the sunlight and the leaves
Creeping about the brown, old eaves,
I hear, too, oft in pain,
A young mam’selle with eyes so grave
Singing “Australian soldier brave
He will come back again.”
The red Somme rushes to my sight,
The swearing troops, the fields of fight,
The cry of “Kamerad” ;
And I am marching with the boys
Away from Life’s all-happy joys
To the blind death and mad.
Their limbs and shoulders touch with mine.
Crouched man by man along the line
Their fire and fear I share.
God ! For a rifle in my hand. ...
What use? You will not understand
A man-soul stript and bare.
x.s.w.
V.C.


LADIES'
COURT
SHOES
42/- the pair
Your size sent on approval, on
receipt of remittance, which will
be refunded if the shoes are
returned as unsuitable for your
requirements.
When writing please state size
and give full address.
The illustration shows a neat, all-enamel Kid
Black Court Shoe, with Cuban heels, pump
soles, and black-and-white buckle.
Price 42/- pair.
Posted free to any address.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
Uj\ X
: .r 5
Electric FANS.
All Standard Types
in Stock =====
British General Electric Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE WELLINGTON, N.Z.
257 Clarence Street. 590 Bourke Street. 8 Willeston Street.
“Catalpa” : Two months ago in my native
United States I found the war touching me
at far more points than I do now that I
have returned to my adopted home in Aus-
tralia. I hope I am not prejudiced, but I
don’t think the Australian Government even
begins to know what organisation for war
means. On the other side, as soon as they
were in it, the Government said “This is
mostly a matter for business men who are
used to handling big things,” and the ser-
vices of big business organisers were
commandeered. The fact that a man was
a soldier rather counted against him if he
had spent his life soldiering: anyway, it was
no recommendation at all. It was charac-
teristic that the Government sent to the big
societies of accountants just as soon as it
sent to the big associations of surgeons. The
railways were instructed that, to save fuel
and labor, they must not run any half-empty
freight cars —only full ones. To save up
tinned provisions for the army and to econo-
mise, the people were instructed about dry-
ing and preserving food at home. On thou-
sands of farmhouses and other buildings I
saw roofs covered with fruit and vegetables
that were being sun-dried. The raising of
loans was given over to expert business-
getters—which doesn’t mean banks. The
country was cut up into sections just like
a hustling insurance office does it, and each
section knew what part of any loan it was
expected to raise. If it didn’t come up to
its figure it didn’t stand good. City was put
up to compete with city, county with county.
There was a big stand in San Francisco
with a sort of barometer, graduated in tens
of thousands of dollars. A soldier and a
sailor were climbing up this—step by step
as the dollars came in. “Help the boys over
the top,” the big sign said ; and you should
have heard the noise when they passed the
city’s apportionment!
* * * *
“A.G.” : The Mills Grenade is the nearest
thing to a pocket earthquake science has yet
produced. I remember it getting an early
trial on Gallipoli. Some grim Australian
joker pitched over the first sample to Abdul
with the pin in position. It promptly came
back in the same harmless condition. Many
Abduls had gathered for the return perform-
ance, but this time the bomb sailed across
in fighting order and there was an early-
(lnnr rush of souls to Allah.
“0 opa b e 11a” : My
friend the company-ser-
geant, just invalided
home from France after
three years’ service,
lifted the veil a little.
There is, he said, in
London and about the
provincial cities of
Britain, worked gener-
ally by women in pairs,
organised “desertion”
machinery. Army leave
for Ireland can be ob-
tained to permit of sol-
diers visiting friends.
The women accost the
likely looking soldier,
and, if he is made will-
ing to desert, they pro-
vide the “friends.” The
soldier gets his “Irish
leave” —and that’s the
last that’s seen of him.
Who finances the
scheme and the agents,
and what becomes of the
deserter? My friend the
company - sergeant
doesn’t know. Or, any-
way, doesn’t tell.
“Cherokee”: If this were a work of fiction
or a five-act melodrama, the lines would in-
evitably meet; but as it is a piece of life, the
chance's are they never will. In 1901, when
the chilly Duchess of York visited Melbourne
Women’s Hospital, she was shown the best
baby-boy and the duckiest baby-girl. She
held each in her arms, and gave each a bunch
of violets. Thus the parallel began. Further,
boy and girl lived in the same suburb of Rich-
mond, and went to the same school there. Yet
Ihev never met. The one, Jessie Grace, aged
16, is the youngest of a family of seven girls
and four boys. She is still in Richmond.
The male half of the parallel, Private John
Arthur, also 16, is in khaki in Eng-
land, and will probably soon be sent home,
as it has been discovered that he is under
the military age. How would a master of
life and plot finish the story?
OVERDOING IT ALTOGETHER.
“I suppose you had a great time when they presented you with the Victoria Cross?”
“My oath! Talk about fuss — you'd ha’ thought they was giving a bloke a gold medal!”
“The Emu” goes to school with the Presi-
dent of China: —
“Feng-shui’s” story of Sun Yat-sen (“China in
Revolution,” B. 29/11/’l7) made very interesting
reading; but I can tell things he doesn’t know about
the Revolutionary Chinese President’s youth and
training.
Sun was born in a small house on the island of
Manui, Hawaii, in the shadow of the greatest
NO COMPLAINTS.
HORSE-DEALER: “How’s that horse I sold
yer going?"
UNDERTAKER: “Well, ’e was a bit lively fer
the coaches, but we tried 'im in the
'earse, an' we ain't 'ad no complaints
so far.”
extinct crater in the world, Haleakala. For his
early education Sun is indebted to Damon of
Honolulu. There are two Damons, each of whom
has enough cash to give a Socialist the d.t's. One
of them maintains a magnificent park, polo grounds
and golf-links for the free use of the proletariat.
The other busies himself with teaching the young
Chinese idea how to shoot. I met him frequently,
and often went to his school.
Sun learnt all the fundamental principles of
modern nations, their politics and their aims from
Damon. Furthermore, there were gathered round
him, later on, young Republican Chinese who gradu-
ated from the same school. Whatever may be his
political morals now, he was an idealist in the early
days of the revolution. The first mutterings of it
reached Hawaji in the shape of a head tax of two
dollars, to he collected by the resident Consul. As
this Consul had been gathered into the police net
on various occasions, it is evident he was not the
right sort of person to be entrusted with the
collection of a head-tax. Local Chinese, on the
advice of Sun, who was then in Honolulu, refused,
accordingly, to pay. Thereupon the Consul in-
formed them that unless they came up, the heads
of their uncles and their cousins and their aunts
back home in China would be removed. They had
a mass meeting on Alakea Park. I sat there with
an interpreter at my side and “did” the meeting.
Over my head spluttered three great arc-lamps, and
out in front were some 5000 infuriated Chinks. My
interpreter, being a good Republican, wanted to
cheer every remark, but I got some sort of account
in the end. The result of the meeting was that
the Consul was compelled to live at home, guarded
by plain-clothes police. It wasn’t a wild precaution,
as the night following the meeting one side of his
house was blown up.
Sun disappeared for a time. Then suddenly he
made his appearance again. He moved about quite
openly, getting funds for the big campaign in
China. He was then a nervous, restless man, slight
in build and conveying the idea of much hidden
vitality. His eldest son, who edited the Chinese
daily, was much after father’s type, spoke perfect
English, and was a clever writer. They left Hono-
lulu together, and the next thing we heard was that
they were doing things. I had in my possession
what I believe to be the only photo in existence of
Sun’s father and mother, taken outside their home
in Maui. His grandmother was also in the group
and some of the younger generation. I gave it to
the coming President just before he sailed.
* * * •
From an army nurse : —•
One of our stray romances came to light the other
day, when a soldier dashed back to England on
leave from France to marry the girl of his heart.
He had picked up a photograph of the lady on the
battlefield (which seems to hint that she was the
idol of some other soldier’s heart previously), and a
letter asking her whether she desired a return of
the likeness led to correspondence and an engage-
ment. But the couple did not meet until the day of
their wedding. Talk about the risks at the Front!
One of Melbourne’s time-hallowed gallery-
plays was given at the District Court the
other morning, when Frank Stapley, the
new Gaud Mayor, took the chair for the
first time by virtue of his job as boss
Bumble. The bench was crowded with no
less than 18 honoraries, who came there
to bask in the reflected glory of Ilennessy’s
successor. These are, or should be, busy
times in Melbourne. There is a war on,
industries to be established, interest on
loans to be met; and so on. Yet IS “lead-
ing citizens” found time, in the best part
of the day, to crowd around a dingy 30b
which could have been more efficiently man-
aged by one plain magistrate.
“D.F.”: Settlement in some out-of-the-
way corners of eastern Vic. is probably
much older than is generally supposed. The
original whaling settlement at Mallacoota
Inlet, a branch of the Eden whaling station,
goes away back to the early part of last
century, and probably existed before the
Hentys settled at Portland Bay in 1834.
Stockmen from the Monaro country, too,
worked down towards Omeo as far back as
the ’thirties or perhaps even earlier. Accord-
ing to the local tradition Angus MacMillan’s
trip into Gippsland in 1839 was t>y no
means the pioneer excursion across the
border, though he seems to have been the
first to go right over the dividing range and
down into Gippsland.
* * * *
“Gunner S.W.H.” (France) : Talk about
Australian stamina- —and luck! How does
this strike you? It is fair dinkum and
happened only yesterday (11/9/T7). Our
Artillery Brigade was moving to a pretty
hot “possie,” but that’s another story. I
was riding on one limber; the victim was
perched on the limber immediately ahead of
me. Ilis waggon turned in suddenly on the
off-side over a dusty deep rut into a field.
He was jolted off the limber and fell back
under the near-side waggon wheel. It went
over his neck. He sat up, an “Am-I-dead?”
look in his staring eyes, and instinctively
felt to find if his head was still on. The doc-
tor’s verdict: “Small bone in the cheek
broken- —soon all right.” The waggon and
limber weighed altogether two tons; the
waggon, itself, about a ton. I am advising
him of the merits of Tatt.’s sweeps.
* * * *
A few minutes in the life of an Australian
youngster: —
We were flying tiny fighting scouts, single-seaters
called “Spads,” when the little business that took me
out of action happened. At about 4 a.m. Le Fane and
I were up looking for trouble about 12 miles behind
the Hun lines, when we ran up against a circus—
about 16 machines. As there was nothing else to,
do we took them on. Things went merrily for 10
minutes or so, and we accounted for two, thus reduc-
ing die odds to about 7 to 1. After that, Le Fane
was brought down, so I decided to make it a run-
ning fight for home, then about nine miles off,
hoping incidentally to draw them in the direction
of our line, where some of our fellows might see
them and have a cut. “Spad” and I got back to
about two miles from home, with about a dozen of
them still coming on, fighting all the way, and there
by a bit of luck I managed to bring down another.
Then trouble arrived seriously. They got a dozen
or so shots through my petrol-tank and set the ’bus
on fire just when I could see about six of our chaps
coming. Of course, I had to step down, as I was
done in, and still up 15,000 ft. It was a fairly rough
passage, but I managed to land my machine, crawl
out and watch her burn. After which I don’t
remember anything till I was being tucked up in a
French hospital.
Lieut. Scrivener, only son of a Sydney bank
manager, who lived a long while in those
few minutes, left Australia with the sth
Artillery brigade, but soon transferred from
the limber to the ’plane, and has been so
notable a success that he wears the D.C.M.
DISCRETION v. VALOR.
S HE: “I CAN'T understand you. A little
while ago you said you'd even face
death for me; and NOW you hesitate
about asking dad for his consent to our
marriage !”
HE: “Um, yes, m'dear —but your dad ain’t
exactly dead, is he?”
and the French War At the time
the “little business” happened he was lead-
ing a French squadron, but after his accident
was put in charge of a training station in
England,
TO THE SUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I want a day of eight-arid-forty hours
To burn my weeds and cultivate my flowers.
Old sun, get sense! The way you hurry through
Your job reflects no credit upon you.
Climbing up late, some little clouds you scatter
And smile as if the morning did not matter;
Then, having made the afternoon a jest,
You wink and flop down redly in the west.
I want a lot of time for hot tasks pressing
Each on the other’s heels —an hour for dressing
A thought hard-won from out your heedless years;
Another hour to spend with hopes and fears ;
A third for careless laughter with a brother.
But you, with your confounded haste, must smother
My life and me and all things small and great
In your eternal gibe—“ Too late, too late.”
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


The President supple-
mented his official ad-
dress by adding that the
action of Senator Pearce,
Minister for Defence, in
prohibiting the, supply
of alcoholic liquor
Australian troop-
ships lmd gained <
general appcoba- /
tion. J/j/}
BILLJTM (on his wav to the
FVoBt > : “Water, water j
everywhere, but not a /
ovop to drink!” IM
a JV A fit '
«*** e \ec\& e
V£
Co^ 1 c o.V u
• e* ee
\N C
c c i V'' e
*o*'
00
to
IPKOVIDENTIAIThie 'Sydney
'.Water and Sewerage Board have
(announced that there is to be
'no restriction on the use of
water for the coming year.
Mr. Dawes (South Australia) said that he was
firmly convinced that alcohol would totally displace
petrol as a motor propellent, and this was going to
solve the problem of compensatiob tp the manufac-
turers of wine and cfther alcoholic beverages who
had put large sums into machinery and plant.
In the above picture may be seen a “joy ride”
conducted on alcoholic lines.
AIMS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
NATIONAL PROHIBITION LEAGUE.
Mr. G. D. Clark, State secretary, read a paper
on **A National Remedy," and how to secure it.
He set forth that many timid folk favorable to
prohibition of liquor sales doubted the wisdom
of aiming at “whole-hog" prohibition legislation.
But the only way to cure the drinker was to stop
his drinking by legislation
A Wowser is a party of neuter gender.—See
above.
Scene. .National,Museum., Year. 2017.
It is claimed in some quarters that pro-
hibition will stimulate private enter-
prise by promotion of illicit stills
etc. /
NOTE.—I/ the foregoing
illustrations are not up to
Hop’s usual high standard
blame the cupidity of The
Bulletin 00., which, on a
flimsy pretext, the increased
cost of paper, has given
Martha Wash— strict orders
as to the nature of refresh-
ments tty be served to the Art
Department.
A DRY SUBJECT.


THE TREE OF HOPE.
“The leaves are falling again. Must I carve yet another?"


ZAN'ETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetie Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
By Special Appointment to His Excellency Lord Islington, ex-Governor of New Zealand
Nurse Ellen Everett, Medical and Electrical Masseuse, writes her opinion to Clements Tonic:-
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., Wellington Electrical and Medical Institute ,
# # Ait ken Street , Wellington , /j/ J/aj', rgr/.
Asa Specialist in Neurasthenia and Nerve Work I find Clements Tonic
cite of my best nerve foods to recommend to my patients .”
Yours truly ,
(Nurse )
For the relief of Indigestion, Loss of Sleep, Anaemia, Constipation, Sick Headache r • ,
_ All Chemists and Stores sell it throughout the Commonwealth and v’ » T 2 ** *
Clements Tame Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W. ou " e attn and .New Zealand.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MILACHRINO
IGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES
BASE REFLECTIONS.
PHYLLIS: “I don't care. I think Jack is
really mean.”
ANNETTE: "Why, Phyllis?”
PHYLLIS: "He wrote to me from Africa
saying he had shot an alligator seven
feet long, and when he shot another he
would have a pair of slippers made for
me.”
Two Tasmanians, Sergeants J. J. Dwyer
and Lewis McGee; a Bananalander, I’te. P.
Bugden ; a Croweater from Broken Hill, Pte.
R. R. Inwood; and a A 7 ictorian, Corporal
AValter Peeler, comprise the last batch of
Australian V.C.’s. McGee and Bugden have
been killed in action ; Dwyer and Peeler have
been wounded. Peeler is a young man
whose wife knew nothing about his ALC.
until a reporter, seeking personal details,
told her that her husband had won it. She
lives at Richmond (A'ic.), and her little girl
of 10 listened to the cheers when teacher
read out the details of her father’s exploit.
Had it not been for the inquiring pressman
she would have been the first to break the
news to mother, who didn’t even know that
dad had won his corporal’s stripes.
Captain Gerald Doorly, of the Union
Co.’s Aparima, was lately torpedoed in the
English Channel; and there was tragic loss
of life. He will surely write the story
some day; for he is author of "The A T oyage
of the Morning” and of numberless Bulle-
tin yarns. A brother-captain is A. T.
A DETAIL LONG SINCE FORGOTTEN.
[?] "You have a [?]
Is the.rent high?”
AB[?]I don't [?]."
\<*rton, whose fine descriptive prose is also
veil known to Bulletin wyjers. For a
long time these good shipmates ea.ried on.
privately, a s..yt, of GQL-ertian duel in verse,
Doorly writing ballad- of which he was the
triumphant hero and Norton the foiled vil-
lain. and Norton responding will r rs ..
which the roles were cleverly :
modern mariner spends his leisure in
sorts of unexpected ways.
“75” : AA'hen Holman called on AA'ilson at
the AA hite House, he (Holman, not Wilson)
was wearing Northeliffe’s belltopper and Sir
Gordon Roberts’s frockcoat. The distin-
guished borrower had arrived at Washington
with little more than a toothbrush and a
clean collar, and discovered that when you
call on the President formal dress is neces-
sary. So he made a hurried collection of
odds and ends from the British official set
and went forth clad in them and his own
glorious modesty.
Old Dr. Jefferis’s place on the Adelaide
A arsity Council has been taken by Ainslie
Caterer. It is a singularly appropriate suc-
cession. AV. AY. Hughes had provided £20,000
for an unsectarian training college for par-
sons ; and it was the old Independent
preacher who suggested that a University
would be better. And a University it was
as soon as Thomas Elder had come down
with another £20.000. Ainslie Caterer was
the first graduate.
As a lad at Baltina (N.S.W.) Lewis
.Morgan fractured his arm, which was pro-
perly set by Dr. Curtis, then in practice in
that town. a man. Morgan, now a cap-
tain on the AA'estern Front, had the same
arm broken by shrapnel. On arrival at
the Base Hospital he was met by the same
rn. l ’’ Curtis, who again set the broken limb.
JLhe Captains father is manager of the
Orange branch of the Commercial Bank of
Sydney.
N S. AA’ales Agricultural Department lost
another valuable officer when Lieut. F.
Ditzell was killed lately. AA’hen the call
came lie was senior experimentalist—a post
created specially to give him a patch to dig
in. He was a Hawkesbury boy.
Dr. “Sammy” Thornton, who died in
London lately, was born in the same village
82 years ago, and came to this country in
1875 to wear the first Anglican gaiters at
Ballarat. He bished there for 25 years, and
then settled down in the Cold Country as a
Lancashire vicar, but latterly had been a
sort of curate-bishop in London. A couple
of y§ars ago, at 80, he married for the
second time. A son, 11. S. R. Thornton,
pulled a strong oar with Oxford ’Varsity in
the early ’nineties, and was afterwards a
master at King’s, Parramatta. He is now
a parson in France.
111 Lady Butler's “Scotland for Ever!” the
Scots Greys come thundering at you out
of the canvas in their famous charge at
AVaterloo. The model for the officer with
his sabre on high was Sergeant John Barry,
who has just retired from the Toorak station
after 34 years in the A'ictorian police.
Barry is a relative by marriage of Lady
Butler. The sergeant, by the way, was a
trooper in 1883 at Glenrowan, in the Kelly
country, and took charge of the blacktrackers
brought from Queensland to help in the
search for Ned and his gang.
Gore Adams, the Maoriland mining-engi-
neer, who, having spent many years poking
about Bolivia and other remote parts of the
Andes, some time ago introduced S. Ameri-
tan tin-mining propositions to Australia,
lately failed for the fourth time to get into
khaki. But, deciding that he must do some-
he joined up with the Maoriland
Y.M.C.A. for field service, and is now on his
way to Egypt.
A long-gone sky-pilot, one Morgan, years
before the AA r aikato war of the ’sixties, used to
make long oilgrimages through the
wild native country, preaching.
AVherever he rode he was accom-
panied by his dog. and this kuri
helped in the sowing of the good
seed. Round the hound’s neck was
slung a bag with a tiny hole in the
bottom, and this bag the parson
filled with English grass-seed. The
hole was just big enough to allow
one seed at a time to drop out. In
this way the kuri left a trail
wherever he trotted in the fern
country, and Maori clearings were
clothed in good i’ye-grass and clover.
To-day the fine swards that sur-
prise a traveller riding through the
big fern land are called by the
Maoris “Alokena’s grass,” and the
pakeha settlers send hands to bag
the seed for their newly-broken
country. Parson Morgan’s gospel-
*• “A Fdp’t pan out many ounces
to the ton on the hard-case Kin°r-
it'\» cut the good seed scattered by the way-
side keeps his memory green.
Hume again from .the French 'Front,
Brig.-t a. Jobson, the accountant who used
to tell Sydney St r N what he thought of
N. S. AY ales companies' balance-sheets
Jobson was in the big stunt of Massines and
the months of preparation for it. He thinks
3 A.: C iust Whs.;- all the others do, but
as.a 4)-* . gamser he has even more
? f v. of those men behind
LII-. bn- | whe lily bring food into Fran
■ i-.vo mho m .mica and yet kee* -be
avenues of communication so free from > ou-
d
in Uie . • . , s
with their injuries s ]j
hospital the same evening.
Lieut. Percy Lay began his collection this
year with the Croix de Guerre. Two months
latei the Military Medal was added, and
wita the following month came the Military
Gross. That made three inside four months,
which ought to be a record. Lav and his
brother Private E. G. Lay. are Ballan
<Aic ) boys who went through Gallipoli
together. They are both now in France.
.Lately-deceased George Henrv Tavlor,
’King of Dubbo,” was born when'liis father
George Taylor, was headmaster of the first
l>t. James’s Grammar School in Phillip-
street. Sydney. Later lie opened a private
school. Fort Academy, on Church Ilill
Amongst Taylor’s boys were W. B. Dailey,
J. Grafton Boss, James Fairfax, Julian
Salomons. G. 11. Reid, the Bennetts, AVal-
tord S. Sparke, the Yeends, Alex. Oliver and
many others who subsequently got their
the mapers. Afterwards he studied
law, aim exchanged Kid for Costs.
Some of the officers who were presented
with decayed vegetables in the strenuous
eailv days of the Salv’army in Australia are
still going strong. One of them. “Colonel”
L* ai v eS .ob e ni e - yS ' lV 1s j ust beeu appointed to
the North China “command.” Jeffreys who
spent a dozen years in Australia, particu-
laih remembers AA ollongong. which took a
demoniac delight in imprisoning the Halle-
lujah lads and lasses for holding meetings in
front of the pub. Jeffreys spent his honey-
moon in AA ollongong. The dav after he
arrived he fractured a local by-law. was
arrested, committed and sentenced to three
months imprisonment; but Carrington,
Gov. at the time, helped him out.
.i-ercy Russell the young orator fr om
mines who, at the time of the Deaeook F use
ran Deakin within a few hundred votes £
Ballarat, is now a very sick man in a sani
torium. _ Russell, who is still i n his earl'
thirties, is a great tighter for lost causes
He forced Irvine to take him seriouslv in
the Tory stronghold of Flinders, and f<Lm
squatter Jowett for the Grampians seat at,
recent by-election. at a
Lately revealed in London that Privao,
Manders, 7107, of the A.1.F., killed in aS
on August 1, was Desmond de la Pw
Villiers-Stuart, a member of one of thl
“first families” of Ireland. He was im-f
lided out of another unit, but, determined to
be “in the show ” joined the Australians
under the assumed name of Manders Th
Yilliers-Stuarts are connected with the
Marquis of Bute; also in some wav or other
with the extinct Grandison and Stuart de
Decies titles.
“Melb” : News comes from Sydney of the
death of Pastor Cherbury. who succeeded
Elijah Howie in the Collingwood Taber-
nacle. Over 30 years ago Dowie was a real
power there. He had not begun his mag-
netic healing, and any Elijah claim was in
the far distance. However, the head was
swelling, and Dowie and his cranks with-
drew to another big wooden tabernacle in
Johnston-street. Meanwhile Cherburv
“established a good cause,” as they call it
at Sackville-street. holding on quietly for
many years; and he also founded the ilomes
of Hope, well-meant little hostels for the
aged.
"Hail Columbia” Hoover, Bewiek-More-
ing's former manager in Australia, and now
in sole control of Unc. Sam’s food supply
has a grudge against the Hun. Hoover was
in China during the Boxer rising, and his
cow was stolen. Taking a lantern and the
calf, whose sorrow was vocal, he wandered
until an answering “Moo” came from the
German barracks. A less cute customer
might have mistaken the noise for a Ilun
singing, but Hoover demanded his property.
Not only was it refused, but the sentry on
the gate confiscated the calf. too. Hoover
was powerless—-then. He was merely a
young mining-engineer in those days.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The Teece boys
(B 29/11/Y7) were a brainy lot, sons of'a
Maoriland couple who made N. S. AA T ales
their home —father had a tannery and boot-
factory at Goulburn. On his death eldest-
son AVilliam carried on the business, and
was M.L.A. for 18 years. On his death in
IS9O he was succeeded by his brother, the
recently-deceased Cecil Bedford Teece. who
was called to the Bar in 1889. After one
experience he did not offer again. Then
fVlp re was Jack (J.J.), who was called to
Bar in 1874 and obtained some distinc-
as a Crown prosecutor; single-handed
onducted the Mount Rennie ease for the
wn. He died early. Another brother
[MICK PAUL, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
REPENTANCE.
“Ministers of religion are exempt from service
under the Government’s scheme of Conscription."
FORTY AND ELIGIBLE: "O Lord. Bertie,
why didn't I go in for the Church?"
was Harry, distinguished as an elocutionist.
He was no money-maker. A sixth brother
was a clerk in the Mines Department: and
finally Dick, late of the A.M.P.. and. I think,
the sole survivor of the family.
[tor any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signet! by anybody else, S. H. Prior. John
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
BILLJIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down to it is Plugger Bill,
Lyin’ crumpled, white ’n’ still.
Me ’n’ him
Chips in when the scrap begins,
Carin’ nothin’ for our skins,
Clii-icked as the ’Eavenly Twins—•
Bill ’n’ Jim.
They ’ave outed Bill at last,
Slugged me cobber hard ’n’ fast.
It’s a kill.
See the purple of his lip
’N’ the red ’n’ oozy drip !
Ends our great ole partnership—
Jim ’n’ Bill!
Mates we was when we was kids;
Camp, ’n’ ship, ’n’ Pyramids,
Him ’n’ me
llung together, ’n’ we tore
l'p the heights from Helles shore,
Bill a long ’arf head afore,
Fine to seel
Then it was we took a touch—
Simple puncture, nothin’ much;
But we lay
’N’ we stays the count, it seems,
In a sorter realm of dreams
Where the sun infernal gleams
Night ’n’ day;
Boilin', fryin’, achin’, dumb,
Waitin’ till the stretchers come,
Patiently.
I hangs on to ’arf a cup,
■Which I wants ole Bill to sup.
Damn if he ain’t savin’ up
His for me!
•' he* : come '" -i" head
1 am softly kiddin’ dead,
For a. game, ■
So’s they'll first take on his gills.
Over, though, me scheme he spills —
BIT up?. this ole take down Bill's
Ihc same!
But he isn't kiddiTi^rgm,
And it knocks me anyhow
Sec-in’ him.
We was both agreed before,
Though it got 'em by the score,
Two was goin’ to beat this war— .
Bill ’n’ Jim.
MUe o'-miir,?,. yiy slave* i it through.
Hard luck, Bin—for m V
Hard ’n’ grim.
They have got me cobber true,
But I m stickin’ tight ez glue....
Bill, there’s one who’ll plug for two—
Cobber Jim!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


//
m
M
g
m
m
m
M
m.
u
m
i
m
m
&
1
%
,W 1
mm
ii
f>v.
ft
till
• V
fee
<T7
iN an “Austral” Sac
LS
Ready-to-wear, the most
particular of men find a
standard of quality and service
to satisfy their demands.
Style and character are outstanding features of every single suit, expressed
not only by the high standard of tailoring, but by the quality of fabrics as
well.
An absolutely satisfactory fitting is assured both the normal and abnor-
mally proportioned man. A wonderful range of regular and between
sizes are available, and invite the men who have an urgent dress need to
test this service here to-day.
“Austral” Sac Suits, Ready-to-wear.
“Austral” Sac Suit Styles are all single-breasted coat models with
medium- and long-roll collar and smartly-shaped lapels, the fronts but-
toning with two or three buttons, the backs plain or with seam and vent
as preferred. The vests in all cases are cut with medium length of open-
ing, and smart, long points. Trousers with permanently-upturned
bottoms are fashionable, but may be had plain if desired, and all have side
and hip pockets.
50/-
"Austral” Sac Suits, Ready to Wear, of
medium-weight Australian Tweeds, in
dark-grey shades, with darker overcheck
and small broken check effects in medium
and dark-grey tones.
“Austral” Sac Suits, Ready to Wear, of
all-wool Marrickville Tweeds, in small
check effects in grey shades, also English
Tweeds in light-grey shades, with hairline
stripe and dark-grey with contrasting
pencil stripe.
“Austral” Sac Suits, Ready to Wear, of
light-weight Tweeds in Navy, with har-
monising pencil stripes, Brown and Grey
Worsteds w'ith faint and contrast stripes,
also Indigo Twill and Cheviot all-wool
Serges.
55/-
“Austral” Sac Suits, Heady to Wear, of
soft-finished Tweeds in grey pimspot
effects, plain, medium grey Flannels of
light weight, and dark-brown Tweeds with
faint overstripe in pleasing contrast.
“Austral” Sac Suits, Heady to Wear, of
Australian and English Tweeds and
Worsteds, in dark-grey shades with faint
stripe, medium-brown tones with hairline
stripe, and small check effect in grey
shades.
“Austral” Sac Suits, Ready to Wear, of
all-wool Marrickville Tweed, in Clerical
Grey shades and light-grey broken check
effects; also English Worsteds in Brown
tones and herring-bone designs, and grey
shades with contrasting stripe.
Country Customers will ensure a good-fitting
Suit if the chest measure {over vest), waist
measure (under vest), inside-leg seam measure
(from fork to heel of boot), height and
weight are given.
is Paid on all Country Orders.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484=490 George Street,
3=17 Royal Arcade, and
304=306 George Street
(Near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF— BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Read Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing: gold, silver, or lead
bhas
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samson n e
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge*
Special Steel Castings
We recently made the STEEL CASTINGS required to complete
a CHARGING MACHINE for the BROKEN HILL FTY. STEEL
MORIvS. These Castings are, we believe, the LARGEST AND
MOST INTRICATE MADE IN AUSTRALIA TO DATE; the
heaviest weighs OYER 7 TONS, another weighs 3 TONS, and is
15 FEET LONG.
If. you are interested in Steel Castings, write us for furthei
particulars.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUNM
The Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
(Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
N.Q. Accident Co.’s reserves. . £976 £62,067
1907.. £20,260 8 p.c. = £6,000 14,260 76,327
1908.. 13,033 8 „ „ 6,000 7,033 83,360
1909.. 15,646 8 ~ „ 6,000 9,646 93,006
1910.. 23,212 10 „„ 7,500 15,712 108,718
, Ql , ( 33,959 10 „„ 7,500 26,459 135,177
raxx.. | Transferre d to cap ital, £25,000 . . 110,177
Reserve for unearned premiums
disclosed . . . . . . £40,000 150,177
IQI , ( 56,827 10 p.c.= 10,000 46,827 197,004
1 Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 172,004
IQI o ( 47,455 10 p.c. =: 12,500 34,955 206,959
‘’ \ Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 181,959
1914.. 40,520 12*p.c.= 18,750 21,770 203,729
.... ( 66,92« 12| „ „ 18,750 38,178 241,907
ryio.. | Transferred to capital, £lOO,OOO. . 141,907
1916.. 61,323 12*p.c.= 31,250 30,073 171,980
1917.. 76,328 12* „ „ 31,250 45,078 217,058
It is amazing progress. Ten years ago the
capital and reserves together w-ere £151,327.
Since then no new- capital has been got in,
yet the combined funds are now- £467,058.
Thus, besides paying away a very fine divi-
dend, the co. has put by for the protection
of policy-holders no less than £315,731, an
amount more than twice as great as the co.’s
net assets were in 1907. And it is probable
that in addition there are considerable in-
ternal reserves. Further, this aggregation
has been practically all in hard cash. The
co. holds in public securities and Treasury
deposits £153,074, in fixed deposits £176,250,
in municipal debentures £45,315, in free-
holds £110,918, and in cash at call and
sundries (mostly cash) £121,564, making a
total of £637,121 of assets, before paying the
current dividend. On the other side, how-
ever, the liabilities total £138,813 —officers’
provident fund, £14,391 ; sundry creditors,
reinsurances, claims and provision for taxa-
tion, £124,522. This latter item is £43,000
more than the corresponding entry last year,
w 7 hich suggests that further large reserves
for contingencies have been made. To recon-
cile these and preceding figures w-ith those
in the published accounts it has to be kept
in mind that the profits in the table include
the additions made to unearned premium
reserve. This addition during the past year
was £18,750; w-herefore P. and L. account
shows a surplus for the year of £57,578.
But, though it is quite a proper thing to go
on building up this fund, it is very doubtful
whether there are £18,750 more unearned
premiums now than there were 12 months
ago, seeing that the increase of net pre-
miums for the year w-as less than £lO,OOO.
The true profit, so far as one ever can state
the true profit of an insurance office for a
single year, w-as therefore probably much
nearer the £76,328 than the £57,518 of the
P. and L. account.
The next comparison shows the growth
of the business :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1900.. 75.310 44,053 20,529 58.5 „ 27.2 „
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58.2 „ 35.1 „
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48.5 „ 38.5 „
1913.. 215,006 102,567 73,924 47.7 „ 34.4 „
1914.. 225,051 116,765 79,400 51.9 „ 35.3 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1916.. 262,675 121,746 93,320 46.3 „ 35.5 „
1917.. 271,416 113,472 103,184 41.8 „ 38.0 „
At the end of the co.’s first 25 years it
had £124,213 of premiums; in the past
seven years it has added £147,103. And
actually more than that; because nowadays
the amount added to unearned premium
reserve is deducted from premiums shown
in the P. and L. account, so that to com-
pare the figures with those prior to 1914
you must add £18,750 to the past year’s
total. This w-ould have the effect of reduc-
ing the loss and expense rates, bringing the
former down to 39.1 p.c. and the latter to
35.6 p.c. This loss rate (and it is probably
more nearly accurate than the one in the
table) is an extraordinarily favorable one,
and is a pretty good indication that the
underwriters didn’t err on the side of exces-
sive liberality in fixing w-ar and other recent
rates. Chairman James Burns in risking
the opinion that “we have had a fairly good
year, notwithstanding the many disabilities
created in all business concerns,” explained
that “by expansion away from Australasian
influences the co. has been able to strengthen
its position, while continuing to pay the pre-
sent dividend.” The remark doubtless refers
to a considerable extension in the East
Indies and other parts of Asia. This may
add to profits; hut shareholders must also
remember that the policy of foreign exten-
sion through agencies introduces new risks.
The Co-operative Assurance Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Added to
July, Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. Deficit.
1911.. £3,000
Sepc., , „„„
1912.. £4,441 £lO4 £16,625 £12,288 15,288
1913.. 10,074 167 15,107 5,200 20,488
1914.. 14,370 1229 17.725 4,584 25,072
1915.. 14,282 1461 14,257 1,436 26,508
To Reduce
Deficit.
1916.. 12,370 1042 9,912 1,416 25,092
1917.. 16,520 1561 11,458 3,501 21,591
During the year this co. took over the life
risks of the Australian Amicable, and the
£10,520 includes £1563 received on that
account- Apart from that transaction the
income w r as £14,957, which is a respectable
improvement upon previous figures.
During the year a valuation of the poli-
cies in force was made by T. W. Bremner,
and his report is admirably plain :
The total reserves which the co. should hold to
meet the liability under its policy contracts amount
to £15,034.
The amount which has so far been accumulated
out of the premiums is £1416. It is only within
the last year of the quinquennium that these accu-
mulations have taken place. These accumulations
should now steadily increase year by year. In addi-
tion, the co. has £56,894 of capital paid up, of
which £26,508 has been expended in establishing
the business, leaving £30,386 actually invested for
the protection of the policy-holders.
The actuary is thus thoroughly justified in
his couclusion that the capital provides
adequate reserves for the policy liabilities.
Put it this way. As at September 30, 1916,
the co. owed under policies £15,034 and had
£31,802 in hand —in cash, mortgages, etc.
That is to say, it had £16,768 of excess
capital. If the expense rate is not reduced,
that, of course, will not very long; but
on the figures available it may reasonably be
expected that by the end of the present
quinquennium the income in excess of exes,
will provide an amount sufficient to keep
the assurance fund supplied w 7 ith its proper
additions. A tight rein will, how 7 ever, have
to be kept on exes. That only £16,768 of
capital was left out of £56,894 at the end
of five years’ operations, and that in the
sixth year something like £l5OO or £2OOO
further was bitten out of this, ought to
make it quite clear that rigid economy must
bo practised.
The co. had great hopes of House Pur-
chase insurance w-hen it started; and it
looked as though there was room for it in
Australia, As the co.’s capital w 7 ent out
rapidly in making the concern known —in
what is officially described as “organisation
and extension of business” —the co. had to
go slow on this branch of the business; and
last year only one advance w 7 as made. More-
over, of 71 advances which have been made
since the co. started, 37 have been w-holly
repaid, and that looks as though the bor-
rowers have come to the conclusion that
they could do better some other way. But
if and as the drain on funds to pay agents,
etc., eases off, and as money to meet policy
liabilities banks up, no doubt hqw?-a-
purchase will be pushed. Ordinarily the
policy-holder is required to w r ait for a loan
until the surrender value of his policy is
20 p.c. of the face value. In practice this
means that, on a 20-year endowment policy,
the policy-holder may borrow up to the full
face value of the policy at the end of five
years. But in order to employ its capital
at the outset the co. granted loans in cases
in which the policy-holder could put up the'
initial deposit in cash, and it still retains
the right to do that. The man who bomnvs
for 15 years—that is on a 20-year endow-
ment policy—pays £lO 16s. p.c. p.a. princi-
pal and interest. At the end of the 20-year
period he will have paid on a £5OO policy,
suppose he was 30 on entering, £477 10s.
phis £BlO interest and principal; and he will
have then a fully-paid insurance policy for
£5OO with any profits or bonuses that have
been made and an unencumbered freehold
property. He will have paid a shade under
10s. a week for five years, and thereafter a
few pence less than 30s. a week, having dur-
ing that period, of course, the use of the £5OO
property. He may probably do better if he
takes out a policy in an office w-hich can
practically assure him of good bonuses
throughout and if he can get a mortgage
for a long term with easy conditions of
repayment and a fixed rate of interest not
exceeding 5 p.c. But, though a man mav
possibly do better for himself than in this
office if he knows how to go about it. he
can’t do better by paying rent. That is the
w-orst thing a man in a steady job can do.
At £1 per w 7 eek a man in 35 years pays
£7BO. and he or his family will have paid
another £7SO at the end of the next 15
years if they continue in possession. By-
paying about 10s. a week for five years
before he gets the house and the same after-
w-ards for 15 years in addition to the £1
rent he can secure a £5OO policy and a free-
hold at the end of 15 years after going into
possession. And if he dies after he has paid
the first week’s 30s. the freehold belongs to
his family without further payment.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd., which
owns “shares and interests in jam-manufac-
turing and fruit cos. and timber mills” :
Nov Profit. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
l9ui/.. £3,418
Reserves.
1910. . £44,764 74 p.c. = £37,500 £7,264 3,846
1911.. 49,048 74 „ „ 37,500 11,548 15,394
Premiums on shares . . 91 15,485
1912.. 49,645 74 p.c. = 39,375 10,270 25,755
1913.. 55,071 7f „ „ 41,250 13,821 39,576
Premiums on new shares. . 198 39,7/ 4
1914.. 59,989 74 p.c. = 45,375 14,614 54,388
1915.. 67,342 124 „ „ 75,625 46,105
1916.. 68,228 7 % ~ „ 45,375 22,853 68,958
1„17.. 81,186 10* „ „ 60,500 20,686 89,644
The sudden big increase of profit calls for a
word or two of explanation. Four or five
years back the directors, having wandered
over the earth, came to the conclusion that
they knew as much about making and sell-
ing jam as most people, and that in S. Africa
there was a good opening for the investment
of >a little of the capital -which this co. has
nevey had any difficulty in raising. Twelve
months ago the directors said that “very
satisfactory results have been obtained from
the S. African factory,” but “the profits are
again being retained in that country to meet
the continued expansion of trade there.”
This year:—
The profits of the South African co. have again
proved highly satisfactory; and as sufficient reserves
have been accumulated there to enable a disti-ibu-
ti m to be made of portion of the year’s earnings,
amounting to £15,330, your directors recommend
the payment of a dividend of an additional 6d. a
share, and do not foresee any reason why similar
payments should not be maintained from this source
for some years.
Thus, apparently, the past year’s profits are
the first that have benefited by the S’African
business, though it has been remunerative
for some time, and though this co. owns all
or practically all of whatever has been made.
From this it follows that the true profits
of the co. are not indicated either by the
published accounts or by the foregoing
table; and the true reserves of the co. are
not set out either. This is the position.
The partners in Henry Jones’s I.X.L. jam
factory at Hobart saw that the manufac-
turers were losing money by competing
where they might work in harmony. Also
factories were losing money by jamming
fruits which didn’t grow, so to speak, at
their own doors. Jones and Palfreyman
therefore set to work to form this co., Jones
with some diffidence, Palfreyman wfith confi-
dence. But not to be compelled to show their
hand they decided that this should be only
a holding co.—that the then existing cos.
should retain each a separate existence, this
co. merely buying the whole of their shares
or a controlling interest. This has enabled
the co. to “organise” the trade without letting
the public see the inside of it; and there
have been enough competitors left outside to
prevent much of a cry against the sweating
of the suppliers. All the same, if the co.
continues to show profits much in excess of
10 p.c., investors w-ill have to take into
account the possibility of restrictive action.
And that will probably be all the more
readily sanctioned in the years ahead if it
can be shown that the primary producer
would make more if this eo. made less. Any-
how, it is a risk of the future, just as, on
the other hand, an enormous expansion of
the fruit-preserving business is one of its
possibilities.
The co.’s capital is £605,000; and £674,764
is represented bv “shares and interests in
jam manufacturing and fruit cos. and timber
mills in the Commonw-ealth, S. Africa and
England (at cost).” How much of this is
goodwill this paper doesn’t know. How
much profit the subsidiary cos. made in addi-
tion to the £85.798 which this co. received
from them The Bulletin doesn't know
either. Also it doesn’t know 7 (1) how much
reserves the subsidiary cos. have; or (2)
what, if any, liabilities they have. They
owe this co. £59,825 ; and this co. owes them
£17,742. Its other liabilities probably don’t
cause it unrest. They amount to £390.
' The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept., T0..26,263 15 p.c. = 11,250 4000 11,013 34,482
Mar., ’11..12,665 15 „ „ 11,250 1,415 35,897
Sept., ’11..12,281 10 „ ~ 7,500 4,781 40.678
Mar., T 2.. 8.125 10 „ „ 7.500 3500 37,803
Sept., ’12..15.290 10 „ „ 7,500 3050 4,740 42.543
Mar., T3..17.664 10 ~ ~ 7.500 3205 6.959 49.502
Sept., T3..18.084 10 „ „ 7.500 3303 7,281 56,783
Transferred to capital, £18,750 .. 38,033
Mar., T4..16.032 10 p.c. = 9,207 3500 3,325 41,358
Sept., T 4.. 6,400 5 „ „ 4,997 3500 39,261
Loss.
Mar., ’15.. 713 Nil 3500 35,048
Profit.
Sept., T5..10.533 5 p.c.= 5,000 3500 2,033 37,081
Mar., T 6-. 9,828 5 „ „ 5,000 3500 1,328 38.409
Sept., T6..10,254 6 „ „ 6,000 3500 754 39,163
Mar., ’17.. 9.983 6 „ „ 6,000 3750 233 39,396
Sent., ’17.. 9,917 6 „ „ 6,000 3750 167 39,563
This eo.’s mines (it owns the East Greta,
Stanford Merthyr and Heddon Greta)
worked only four months in the last half-
year; and the East Greta railwav. though
some sort of service was maintained through-
out the strike, certainly made
mg the period. Considering the dur '
co. has been a poor moneymaker fot PUt ’ the
many years past. Despite strikes th g °° d
ceipts have been about £200,000 a y ear th'
bulk ot it from sales of coal- -imi iif r ’ the
surplus has been in late years gro J®
p.c. of the turnover. Out of £ S u 0
to be or should have been provided n f ad
sinking fund for the return of caSl J a
sented by the wasting assets (9
for the replacement of plant, and itl ;^ nd
est on capital. Seven years and more a *o
the profits were attractive, and ther P « g
considerable sums left in the business- not®
withstanding that, a survey of 10 ,
results gives nothing to be at all enthlli
astic about:— lUUSI '
n -t 1 Sept.,’o7. Mar.,’l7. Sept ’l7
Capital . . . . £150,000 £200,000 Tmnt
Liabilities .. .. 18,202 73 145 X?
Assets other than mines, ’
rail and plant .. 21,690 68,267 66 4's
Property other than fixed assets consist
mainly of cash and stores, and hav P
creased by £44,708. but, in SD j te “j
an increase of capital (the greater rm
ot it pmd in actual cash), liabilities are
£41,400 more. Of course, meantime a W
of money has been put into mine d’evelon
ment and plant and spent on the railway-
but what is the good of that to the share
holders if it hasn't produced more profit
As a matter of fact, in the March-Sen'
tember half of 1907 the receipts were
over £100,000; since then verv nearlv
£lOO.OOO has been spent on the mines and
railway, in plant and development, and the
receipts have lately averaged rather Jess than
£lOO.OOO per half-year. The only visible
explanation is that, mainly through labor
troubles, this and other mines have gradu-
ally lost their trade. And the labor troubles
have been largely the outcome of some hazv
idea that the owners were making vast pro-
fits. Very few owners on the Northern field
are in a better position to make profits than
the Past Greta, and for four years past it
hasn’t averaged oi p.c., and a'part of that
hasn’t been profit—it has represented the
sale of assets.
The Drapery and General Import Co.
of Maoriland, known all through the Shivery
Islands as the D.I.C.:—
Dividends.
r _A \ Bonus
Pref. to Share- Re-
Aug., Profits. 6 p.c. p.c. Ord. holders, serves
1907. . £16,464 £7436 6 = £6342 £725 £29 823
1908.. 14,947 7500 6 „ 6355 621 30’294
1909.. 15,583 7500 6 „ 6361 699 31 317
1910.. 17,689 7500 6 „ 6367 781 34,358
1911.. 21,617 7500 7 „ 7438 725 40,312
19 1 2.. 20,9 9 4 7500 . 7,, 761 6 791 45,499
Premiums on nq\v shares, i 1573 .. 47,072
1913.. 24,357 7500 7 = 7701 889 55’339
Premiums on new shares, £126 .. 55,465
19 1 4.. 24,25 1 75 0 0 7 = 8 146 1 010 63,060
Premiums on new shares, £lO .. 63,070
1915.. 21,295 7500 7 = 8173 923 67,769
1916.. 24,645 7500 7 „ 81 7 7 87 7 75,860
1917.. 21,589 7500 7 „ 8182 900 80,867
The profits for the past year were slightly
less than those for the preceding four; but
the higher income tax more than accounts
for the difference. This co.’s practice is to
appropriate out of the previous year’s gross
profit enough for the current year’s tax; and
the current year’s tax will be about three
times more than was paid during last or
any previous year. The profit is thus satis-
factorily maintained ; so is the surplus profit
put by ; so are the movements shown by the
various balance-sheet figures:—
1907. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Pref. capital . . £125.000 £125,000 £125,000 £125,000
Ord. capital . . 105,707 116,789 116,844 116,947
Liabilities . . 94,388 29,571 56,642 45,966
Stocks.. .. 150,3 1 2 1 22,972 1 54,393 164,755
Book debts . . 62,94 6 7 0,14 6 73,459 54,903
Premises,plant. . 152,261 155,2 87 1 56,143 156,143
Cash, etc. . . 215 4,571 3,155 5,810
Liabilities are roughly £lO.OOO less than
they were a year ago; stocks are £lO.OOO
more; and these movements the right way
have been rendered possible by reducing
the book debts by about £20,000, which is
the best movement of all in these times,
when the future is so uncertain. Twelve
months ago it seemed doubtful whether large
additions to stocks were good business.
Peace will probably come suddenly: the
chances are that it will be practically fixed
up before any hint of negotiations reaches
the public. And then there will be ”retty
sure to be a scramble to get out of some
merchandise lines tnat have been bought at
high prices. But the U boats have taken
great toll of shipping in the 12 months and
the longer the war lasts the more difficult
will it be to promptly- resume business as
usual. The old tale that Germany was
making and storing up vast quantities of
merchandise isn’t much heard nowadays.
The truth doubtless is that Germany, though
better organised for both war and peace
than Britain, is in much the same condition
internally; and we know very well that
Britain hasn’t been storing up those manu-
factured goods in which it used to trade
most largely. Later on the sljoe is going m
pinch, of course. We have the bill ahead
of us. and the more of it we have to paj
outside the country the harder the pmc’
will be. But for Maoriland and Australia


p or PERPETUAL
Trustee Company
31 Years (Limited)
has been in busi-
ness as a Corporate
Trustee.
Since its incorporation
it has never been held
liable by the Courts
for a breach of Trust
of any description.
The Company acts as
Executor an d Trustee,
Administrator in Intes-
tacy, Attorney Under
Power, Agent, etc., etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Manager:
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
ThePadfic Cable Board
IiFST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United - Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted. from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning. .
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
/ 9d. (minimum
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6 -j 2 o words)
New Zealand.. 4}d. . .
(7d. (minimum
Canada .. 2/4 1/A ) n/8,20 words)
U.S. A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/41 'yg
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates oil
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Reernlations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St, Melbourne. Tel. 2.=>88.
J MILWARD. Manager in th"
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. HZ
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars. — Advt. # #
Efficiency is the watchword of the undertaker. He
never has to do the same job more than once. Like-
wise, the man who roofs with “Adamax” Asphaltum
Roofing furnishes his building with a protective and
permanent roof needing no further attention once it
has been laid. “Adamax” is termed the “efficient”
roofing—being practically indestructible by fire, rain
dr chemical action. It is the economical roofing,
because of its low cost and low freight charges.
“Adamax,” compared with galvanised-iron, reduces
these costs by approximately one-third. The
immeasurable service superiority which “Adamax”
roofing gives was the principal factor governing its
selection for use on various public institutions
throughout the Commonwealth. This fact, in con-
junction with low price, should be adequate recom-
mendation as to the advisability of your _ using
“Adamax” Asphaltum Roofing. Fuller particulars
are given in the “Adamax” booklet, sent you on
request. William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. — Advt.
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
* * * *
Have you clearly understood that Pioneer Wood
Pipe can not only save you money, but can also save
you a lot of worry and annoyance with rusting and
corroding pipes? Its durability is beyond question.
Water preserves the wood. Send for illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.
(head office), Burns Bay Road, Longueville. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. Factories: Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. Footseray, Victoria;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. —Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
» * * *
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.
Earth-handling Machinery: Road Graders, Scoops and
Ploughs. Concrete-mixing Machinery: The famous
“Austin” Cube Concrete Mixers in dofferent sizes and
capacities. “Robey” Portable Steam Engines, 8,
14 and 16 nom.-h.p. “National” Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. “Leplastrier” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds and
Collapsible Moulds for Concrete Culverts. Brisbane
inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.,
Charlotte Street. — Advt.
* * » *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising Is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * # *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.—Advt.
Fire, marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0.A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. . 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
VV. K. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Mining; & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 4375. Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street. :
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
the largest factor will be the prices we
shall get for our primary products, auu on
that point we can only guess. The D.I.C.
has this advantage, at any rate : it is in a
comfortable position to meet almost any
fortune. # #
Bangadang, outside Adelong (N.S.W.), is
in financial difficulties just when the 10-head
mill is almost ready to try the thousands of
tons of low-grade stuff at grass. Govern-
ment geologist Harper examined the mine
three or four months ago and reported :
To my thinking the only way to prove the field
is by crushing, say, 1000 tons of stone on the spot.
This tonnage should be taken indiscriminately, and
if the results indicate an average gold contents of
not less than four or five dwt., then a highly pay-
able belt of country would be proved, for the supply
of auriferous stone is practically inexhaustible and
conditions are most favorable for economic mining
bv open cut, with plenty of cheap firewood and
water.... Should the average values prove sufficient
to bear mining and treatment costs of about 12s.
per ton, there is material enough to keep at least
100 head of stampers running for a practically
unlimited period.
The directors say that to complete the plant
would cost about £250; and on Harper’s re-
port, which is backed by Nicholas Holman,
superintendent of the Gibraltar Consolidated,
somebody ought certainly to get it running.
This country can’t afford to miss the chance
of working millions of tons of gold-bearing
stone at a profit. The co. in its present
shape is, however, apparently helpless. It
was ridiculously overweighted and hardly
any working capital was provided for, so
that it owes now £3422, which isn’t far short
of all it has spent on the plant. It is pro-
posed to issue 45,000 £1 shares to present
holders (10 shares for every one present
£2O share) and offer 16,000 shares to the
public, giving a bonus of one for every fouri
subscribed for. If the thing is handled all
right it is a good gamble.
Mount David (N.S.W.) is getting off its
leases at Rockley after many years of speck-
hunting. Since 1903, when 5 p.c. was paid,
the shareholders haven’t had a taste. The
co. will not go out of the running alto-
gether. It has taken over on option the
Mount Dudley at Trunkey, now in the
hands of A. B. Kirkman, and, as the fairly-
indifferent shareholders have consented to
all arrangements, will probably get into its
new stride by the beginning of the year.
The Mount Dudley some time ago gave out
some promising stone, but nothing sensa-
tional has come of the limited operations,
which have been hampered by the absence
of battery or treatment plant. All going
well, Mount David will shift its plant to
the new love, and will have the biggest
thing on the Trunkey field.
* * * *
With the called-up capital near exhaustion
and only about £5OOO outstanding, Amalga-
mated Hill End Co. (N.S.W.). has decided to
virtually turn things in. The expenditure
has amounted to over £50,000, which equals
the authorised capital, but includes £12,000
of gold taken out of the mine and put back
into the workings. Which didn’t mean any
dividend on the 300.000 4s. shares. The
co. has negotiated with Marshal Bros, of
Hill End, who run the Hawkins Hill Re-
ward and Central mine—the only two other
large shows on the field—for the purchase of
its plant, leases and general assets, payments
extending over two years. During that time
the Amalgamated will be allowed to further
test the deep levels by sinking the Star of
Peace shaft another 100 ft. to the 900 ft.
level, and will also keep on the Mica vein.
Meanwhile, the Central, which lies between
the Amalgamated and the Reward, will pro-
ceed with the drives that are designed to
unwater the Central and turn the two mines
into one underground.
* * * *
The Thermo Electric Corporation intends
to lay out £40.000 on its works at M olfram
Camp (Q.). Battery foundations are being
put in, so with a Government mill also there
the field will have plenty of crushing power.
A lively little show known at the Camp as
the Victory seems likely to give a good
account of itself, for the pipe of ore has
opened out to 20ft. square at the 98ft. level,
and the stuff carries, besides wolfram,
molybdenite and a little bismuth. A pro-
mising discovery of wolfram has also been
reported by the Pt. Douglas warden near
Mt. Carbine.
* *
Mount Cuthbert (Q.) opened a new
Profit and Loss account for the last halt-
year, thereby shunting an old debit of
£87131. Roughed out, the position, apart
from the debenture debt of £55,500, has
changed as follows since the co. began to be
revenue-producing in March last;
Deferred creditors (portion secured by
frdiiiary debs’) ““ “L 68.078 MB.WS
creditors 12,696 14,461
K’ovidraft .I ■■ ■■ U.BBl 8«.21S
£84,535 £97,657
On the face of things it looks as if the
co. has gone to the bad, as there has been
a reduction of £3200 in stocks; but things
are levelled up by £45,000 of blister copper
on hand on August 31. There was none six
months before. So of assets other than
mine and plant Cuthbert had £62,800 on
August 31 to set against the aforesaid
£1)7,600. As it should not have been losing
money since then, even with its labor trials,
finances are probably a little better than
this to-day. The co. got 1169* tons blister
from 16,486 tons ore; but costs were £9O
per ton! The remedy lies in running the
mine three shifts, so as to lift monthly
smelting up to a 300-ton output. That
would carry reduced osts and lead to so
much bigger revenue that debts to bankers
and deferred creditors would rapidly wilt.
Powell, sen., besides reporting reserves of
141,500 tons containing 11,631 tons copper,
sees more than a chance of getting a fresh
shoot of 12 p.c. ore behind the big Kalka-
doon iron blow.
Rlair Athol (Q.) announces a Is.' div.,
which follows others of 9d. and 6d. within
the year. The nominal capital is £50,000 in
100,000 shares, but 56,517 are paid up to
only 6s. So far no distinction with regard
to dividends has been made between the
shares, those paid to 6s. ranking equally
with those paid to 9s. 6d., but the market
quotes the latter at a small premium. A
shilling per half-year means 20 p.c. on nomi-
nal capital, and there are not many collieries
that do as well. The history of Blair Athol
has been good, for since the two pits have
been hauling coal it has made a net profit of
approximately 2s. per ton. Alongs.de is the
Newcastle Co., which is operating a seam
61ft. thick at a depth of 173 ft.
“Platman”: Palmer Gold Mines IQ.) have
shut down after spending £lO,OOO and failing
to unwater the Louisa shaft, 93ft. deep. The
Cooktown people, who still have faith in the
Ida and Louisa lines, backed their opinion
with £3OOO. Appel, then Minister, promised
a subsidy of £3 for every £l. Various
reports were made by one inspector and
another, mostly after a look at a mullock-
heap and a shaft tilled with water, and an
oil plant was recommended. The local direc-
tors wanted either a boiler and pump or a
suction-gas plant, the latter preferred ; but
officialdom insisted upon the purchase of the
French co.’s Diesl engine and electrical
plant at Wolfram, apparently because it was
cheap. All sorts of troubles arose: among
them, transport charges on oil from the
wharf (Cooktown) to the mine ran to over
£8 per ton. To make a long story short,
the water was reduced in the shaft half
a dozen times—and then the hole filled up
again. Now the money is done and no more
is known of the reef that when the move-
ment was started. No blame can be
attached to the local people. They put up
their good cash, and if they had been
allowed to carry out their original plan at
least something would have been known of
the value of the reefs by now.
* * * *
A recently-discovered molybdenite show
near Charters Towers is known as Jingles
Extended. The quartz vein gave good assays,
but the molybdenite is disseminated in fine
particles and the recovery of the mineral by
the ordinary milling process would be un-
profitable. The directors of the Moliagul
(Vic.) have done a wise thing to get J. H.
Fawcett to report on the property and the
equipment required to recover the dissemi-
nated molybdenite as a concentrate. The
Booralong show near Armidale (N.S.W.) is
another of the same kind, and like the others
it hangs in the balance until mill recoveries
are known and not merely guessed. It is
just as well to root out the idea that all
molybdenite deposits are payable.
Local papers are again becoming eulogis-
tic about Leonora Blocks (W.A.). Some-
one connected with the mine is interviewed
every week, and, while its past inability to
come up to official expectations is glossed
over, what is going to happen in the future
is whooped up. The same sort of tactics
were resorted to over Nullagine, Gw alia
Central, Chaffers, and other Westralian
shows of recent date, and Tuckabianna. and
Nevoria are now in the limelight. Business
like this only degrades mining.
From Westonia: —
A copy of a pamphlet containing s6me of The
Bulletin's past two years’ comments on the Deep
Levels and its works reached Westonia (W.A.) the
other day. The interested firm of eastern brokers
who issued it say that the contents make interesting
reading. Well, with the reminder that the Edna
May reef has contracted considerably in Deeps ground,
and with the following few remarks added, perhaps
they will. Since the improvement in Deeps some
three months ago, the monthly output has grown
rapidly less, which looks ominous. The winze from
the 560 ft. level has gone down from a well-selected
point on rich ore, but this is not likely to prove of
much benefit until the main shaft is sunk to a lower
level. Of course, underhand stoping or other method
of selecting an undue proportion of the richer ore
may be indulged in, so that yields may be kept
presentable. Water has been struck in the winze,
and if a greenstone or granite dyke be met with
during further sinking the inflow is not likely to
become less. The co. intends prospecting in the
shallow levels west of the main shaft, and there
certainly are possibilities in that direction.
At 321 ft. level Edna May Central has water trouble
very badly. Its hope lies in the fact that Edna
May will soon have to raise its 300 ft. level water
from 385 ft., and so naturally drain the 321 ft. level
Central. Yet some people wonder if adjoining cos.
receive any benefit from Edna May pumping opera-
tions.
Consolidated’s reef is in a bad way. On the south
there is the greenstone and on the north the Cen-
tral’s ground lies handy to receive the Consolidated
reef with another 100 ft. of sinking. The Consoli-
dated reef has some width and value, but length is
doubtful.
Edna May has installed an electrical pump at the
385 ft. level, and nearly half a million gallons per
day are being raised from this depth. The heavy
water was originally struck at 300 ft. level, and so
long as only shaft-sinking and driving were in pro-
gress below that level it was possible to keep the
greater portion of the water up there. Stoping
operations have altered this, and the water will
come through the stopes to the 385 ft. and 480 ft.
levels. The latter level marks the end of the
mine so far as depth is concerned; the reef there-
after belongs to Deeps. Edna May ore reserves are
likely to be exhausted in about 18 months, and,
presumably, the water will then be permitted to rise
to its normal level —80ft. from surface. A concrete
wall has been built in Deeps’ 480 ft. level to block
a possible inflow. As Central’s levels connect with
those of Edna May, the former co. will be similarly
threatened with water, though in lesser degree.
Altogether the water problem at Westonia is full of
possibilities, but no doubt some arrangement agree-
able to all cos. concerned will ultimately be come
to. When the arrangement comes to be discussed,
the old co. will hold a very strong hand. Edna
May’s 480 ft. level is opening up well, and the pro-
spect of striking the continuation of the recent 73ft.
level development at 150 ft. is good, although that
development is not likely to prove of very much
importance.
vr * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) is hopeful of a new
lease of life. Returns from two small crush-
ings recently obtained from a new make of
ore averaged 14dwt. over the plates, and a
larger parcel is now going through the mill.
The vein is small and a bit erratic in value,
but is well worth following. After return-
ing to shareholders 2s. per share, amounting
to £9720 (the balance of ss. per share,
absorbing £23,176, which the Court sanc-
tioned some time ago), the co. has £7186
left to do this work.
The usual pail of woe about New Langi
Logan (Vic.) is emptied by James Mackay
at the end of another six months of tribula-
tion. Hebbard is the prop this time, and
Mackay quotes him as saying : “The crux of
the position is the quantity of labor avail-
able for extraction in excess of that required
for necessary development.” But there
hasn’t been any excess available, so all hands
and the cook have had to be kept at work
punching through hard rock to get leading
drives down the big lead at the rate of about
10ft. per week instead of the expected 30ft.
The well of optimism stands the strain splen-
didly ; but, all the same, the pill has to be
swallowed —another six months’ development
will have to be paid for before Hebbard’s
programme is through. Meanwhile Mackay
will scratch round to get alluvial men to
extract wash in the hope of keeping calls
down. If he doesn’t succeed the cold-foot
brigade will give him notice that call-paying
on a dead market isn’t the game it used to
be when old Joe English and Jimmy Ran-
dell on a bare word could make or mar any
deep-lead go. The co. ruled off its balances
on October 31 to find that it owed Langi
North £2153 and sundry creditors £4076. The
assets are calls outstanding £1026, and odd-
ments £9OO. If Mackay gets out of call-
making his working account will stand at
£lOl,OOO and plant account at £32,000.
Such is the cost of a big deep-lead show.
Cap’n Miles’s Katoo-Deebook dredge,
Renong, Malay Peninsula, spent a good part
of last year wrestling with deep ground,
stiff clay and hidden logs. The exchequer
suffered." as tin recovered was worth only
7.073 d. per cub. yard, while costs were
5.89 d. Consequently it was like climbing a
greasy pole to pay £Booo in divs., especially
as requisites like iron and steel flats were
standing at £69 per ton against the pre-war
price of £9 10s. and other spares were up 300
p.c. in price. This wouldn’t matter so much
if Miles felt dead-sure that the shallower
ground ahead would be better. As he has a
twelve-months’ struggle to get to that ground,
his refrain is that immediate prospects at
Renong aren’t brilliant. So the call is for
another lease. One at Selangor has been
turned down, and now a couple of other
choice spots are under inspection. On the
strength of the story that one of these has
400 acres going 260 z. tin oxide per cubic
yard, Miles has rejected an offer of £30,000
for his dredge. Naturally he would.
For six months to June 31 Bischoff’s
smelter turned out 1011 tons of refined tin;
but only 13Sf tons were produced on the
co.’s own account. The price averaged £216
19s. lOd. Manager Milleii has estimated
reserves on the northern slopes and the
valley at 850,000 tons worth 0.31 p.c. tm.
Assuming that \ p.c. metallic tin is recover-
able, Bischoff is a 10s. per ton proposition
with the metal at £2OO. Last half-year’s re-
turn from 51,270 tons crudes averaged
slightly over the i p.c. On these figures
Bischoff is probably the lowest-grade milling
tin proposition in the world that can pay
dividends. The latest was 2s. 6d. per share,
and the current half-year should do better
than that.
M. *
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 2,6.)


To H.M.
Kinfi
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsierk
CMAMpACHt
Q»arksH6dsie*
Reims I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
100 o'tt Street' ,/poin'
,A*
Shop*
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAX.
PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ <a, CO . LIMITED, Sydney.
“ reGUA s'„'y* Health
QTj.Cotlis BrsunsV
Qtmgm
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE REST FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery•
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, ijS, 3/'< H •
Made m England.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 8, 1!>17.
My Dear Arini,—
The expected happened on “Our Day.”
lhe edict which prevented willing workers
tiom turning the city into an open-air
market-place flattened the attack, as every
experienced stall-holder knew it would. The
number of people who will buy a badge or a
nag soon runs out. Flowers here and there,
iceciearns, etc. that soon came to an end,
too. Ihe homely radish and the trussed fowl,
the patter of the glib auctioneer, the lively
baiter of other days—these things were not.
1 ossiblv there will be £50,000 in private
donations. But for this the impossible task
ot running a huge raid on bunting and tin
badges would have covered nobody with
glory.
The. morning was fine enough for a roaring
trade, if trade had not been lorbidden. The
lass m her muslin gown and shady hat did
her utmost. But the public, having inocu-
lated itself with something it pinned to its
bosom, swiftly became immune and marched
on the city pavement just as though it had
a right there!
(t As . n oon clanged there was the usual
opening ceremony” in Martin Place.
Deputy-Gov. Cullen got in first. Hanburv
Davies was master of the ring, and cracked
his whip, so to speak, to bring the speakers
to heel. David Storey flung some remarks
across the tented roofs. Skipper Glossop
got a round of applause, and hurriedly threw
a stentorian “Ladies and gentlemen” off
his chest. Like most sailors, he drops
anchor a good many times in the course of a
sentence, and hunts as persistently as did
dear old Bawson for the word which is
hiding m Ins boots. Speaker Cohen, the
nearest thing to a Christmas-tree on the
platform, had speared much flag and tinware
on his capacious frontage. It didn't prevent
his unloading the best speech, warm and
human, and oozing with gratitude for the
clnei toilers in the Red Cross vineyard. A.
L. Blythe and Mrs. Jocelyne and her V.A.
guls Mere in the mention. Consul Shimizu,
Commandant Lee and some feminine milli-
nery were also crowded on to the lily-decked
dais.
The Town Hall still resounds with the
clatter of coin, and the fair to help St.
Mary s building fund will go on for another
week. And here I’d like to mention the
gratitude of the Girls’ Realm chief, Grace
Burrows. She says: “They—l mean the
committee of the Cardinal Moran memorial
tund—were more than commonly kind to
l ' s \ They could have turned the Economy
Exhibition out on the Wednesday, as they
had taken the Town Hall from that date.
Eut as we had lost a day at the beginning
ot our week through letting Mr. Hughes
line the hall for his Conscription speech
r m !fn? tIV ; e ' * av ® u ® the ex tra time, though
it meant a big rush for its own workers.”
swar . med the Society of
Artists loft on opening day did not perspire
in vain. It was worth the vapor bath to
fej5 han Ashton’s breezy monologue on the
Artists text of many years—' “What is the
Government doing for art?” And there were
The show is not all Norman
nivnf- j Vr, but that amazing artist is the
Pivot. The crush searched its catalogue for
?, r p Uner - f In vain. He is too full of war-
dieams t° p’ay with oil-tubes this year
•Judge. Backhouse, faithful to every Austra-
han foot ure show : the Maxwell Allans; G.
p.‘ ■ Hadfield, Rubbo, and others from the
tr«l' St S et *u lval ar t-, s h 0 P J Mrs. Holman; Dr.
<JrUrT ?,°°th. snatching an j lour f rom the
Solders Club; editors; “crickets.” as the
S? a V, b< £ calls them ; affable Orient manager
i^ T i ld -j Rei - d - and ,lls wife; Mrs. King, an
Adehaide visitor; Mrs. Scott Robertson, who
left by Saturday’s express for her home
State, which is also S. Aus. ; Mrs. Duret,
who dabbles in art herself; John Lane Mul-
lins beaming through his glasses while Ure
.mith and Lionel Lindsay fed him on etch-
ings of old Sydney—these were in the pack.
Of Dr. Elsie Inglis—also just dead of the
war and overwork—her friend Dr. Marv
Booth says : “She was indomitable, and when
1 was in Edinburgh was the leader in every-
thing that tended to lift the status of women
As a woman doctor she came long after the
waves of prejudice had broken over nioneers
such as Dr. Garrett Anderson.” When Dr
Inglis started out to initiate the Scottish
»\ omen s Hospitals, she was eager to always
take the post of danger. Mrs. Abbott, now
collecting cheques for these hospitals’ sup-
port, tells stories of the heroic woman in
typhus-smitten Servia that recall the strug-
gles—with next to ho appliances—of Flor-
ence Nightingale. But I haven't asked
Mrs. Abbott this question : “What would Dr.
Elsie Inglis say to a committee for the Scot-
tish Women’s Hospital Fund with never a
woman member, and never a woman asked
to be a member?’’ Yet that’s how it is in
Sydney.
Cranbrook. which the State bought some
years ago as a residence for its superfluous
Governor, fell under the hammer on Satur-
day. his Ex. and his belongings having
been transferred back to Maequarie-street
after the Federal Excellency had been
evicted. Auctioneer Rabett found a buyer
for the old home and five acres at £2O 000.
Tis said that various wealthy people of the
South Shore have dipped their hands in their
pockets for the purpose of establishing a C.
of E. Grammar School.
A X. S. Wales branch of the Navy League
was christened the other day at the Royal
Naval House. Veteran Tom Dibbs. Cap-
tain Dunn, A. W. Pearse, Russell French
and a hundred or so more of both sexes were
sponsors for the infant. Joe Cook made a
few remarks. So did Willie Kelly. Con-
sett Stephen put the motion to form a
league, and the ayes had it. Quite what
the Navy League intends to do. unless Mr.
Kelly and other Win-the-war heroes mean to
pull on their .sea boots, is not clear. Per-
haps they are going to defend England. That
little island is being attacked by another
country besides Germany. Australia, in
fact. Every week Australia is dipping into
mother’s pocket for £500,000 to pay her army.
And the distressed old lady simply can’t
afford to let this go on. She hasn’t spoken
sharply yet to Australia; but according to
people who have lately come from the other
side, there are many very influential Eng-
lishmen who begin to think that Australia
ought to be a little ashamed of herself.
The Killara War Chest committee was
behind the Roseville engineers’ show on
Saturday. Major Madsen. 0.C.. and Lieut.
Cottee. were ardent co-conspirators. The
usual threat of heavy rain rolled up towards
night. But thousands of patriots, mostly
women and children, tramped from the sta-
tion to the camp to see the fun —trench
raids, star shells and other fireworks.
Motors and lorries, lent by their owners,
helped the paying guests, and their fares
went into the Chest. The tent-pegging was
especially good, one artist scoring every peg
and slicing, every lemon on his wild ride to
Anywhere.
This profile be-
longs to Stella
Power, the Victorian
lyric soprano now
on her way to
U.S.A. Mina Moore
(Melbourne) cap-
tured the youngster
for a sitting in the
middle of her hurried
pack-up. Me 1 b a’s
cable to “come over
here" gave the girl
just time to stuff
her frills into a
cabin trunk and hop
on to a train to catch
the ’Murkan craft in
Sydney.
Deputy-Governor Cullen, wearing hi s
Chancellor’s millinery, opened Wesley Col-
lege, in the Uni. grounds, on Saturday.' Prof.
Andy Stuart, in his best hat (no. not the
grey one, but a trencher) ; the Rev. Ively-
nack, son of a former orator of much weight
m \\ esleyan circles, and manv other whis-
kered dignitaries watched the'door turn on
its hinges. Scott Fletcher, M.A B Lift
(Oxford), B.D. (that’s all. I think)', is
master of the new college. He’s a
son of a one-time principal of Wesley
Coliege, Auckland; was lately head of
k- m S s College, Brisbane; and is one
of the simplest and kindliest of men. who
can laugh as loud as any if the joke’s against
himself. A keen horseman, like the rest of
his family, he was out riding with his wife
and youne daughter in Centennial Park a few
weeks ago. His nag, after various attempts
to waltz and generally show off its educa-
tion took some holding in. The steeds rid-
den by the family were equally lively. Next
dav the facts came out. They were circus
prancers. The master of Wesley had <dven
permission to have them turned into° the
grounds to eat down the grass, and the owner
had begged the horse-loving familv to ride
them as often as they would. Only a firm
hand on the bridle prevented a mild-lookino’
parson doing a fox-trot on a hippodrome gee-
gee, to the delight of the local nursemaids.
The college interior is handsome and
dignified, with dark wood used to arch the
roof in heavy beams. Students’ rooms are
furnished in the same way—Brunsdon
Fletcher, the Herald’s associate-editor, was
responsible for one cosy room's fixtures.
The dining-hall is a miniature of some old
Oxford common-room. But Australian sun-
shine ripples through the windows, and
there’s more fresh air than the ancient Eng-
lish collegiates could have endured without
sneezing their learned heads off. Outside is
a mixture of well-set-up chapel and a sub-
urban mansion, with the inevitable pepper-
pot toweret.
Dr. Purser, in his robes as Vice-Chancellor
of the Uni., presides at the first lecture in
the new Methody College. The musical Sug-
Uen, head of Queen’s, Melbourne, is to
deliver it.
There was a Guv’ment House party for
the wives and mothers of sailors the other
day. Also, amongst the Garden island con-
tingent. much chatting over the Glossop-
McPlnllamy engagement. The lion of the
spree was an infant of eight months, the
special pride of th Royal Naval House.
Half the company wanted to croon over the
babe, adopted by a sailor’s brave little
woman who had children of hi r own, but
thought there’d be room for another. The
i- defatigable Miss Henderson took over the
heavyweight end of looking after the Cullens’
visitors.
Skipper Emden Glossop. R.A.N., a more
or less confirmed bachelor, was apparently
unmoved by the hero-worship of our fairest
buds. But he has met the right girl at last,
and Alison, one of the big Bathurst clan of
McPhillamy, will annex the Sydney’s former
commander, who now has Commodore Hen-
derson’s shore billet at Garden Island. The
lass ought to be well-dowered, for grandpa
McPhillamy left a tidy sum amongst his
descendants.
While the bride at a fashionable wedding
gets the spotlight, and the ’groom is not
quite forgotten, who spares a sigh for the
best man’s hard lot? lie is obsessed by a
desire to do something to justify his exist-
ence, and generally gets an old boot for his
pains. Something, I am not sure what, hit
Captain Clifford's immaculately-ironed silk
hat as he shadowed hon. gent.-help d’Apic-e
from the altar the other morn. Prior to
this he had seized two small cushions, and
whenever the hero and heroine showed a
desire to kneel the G.-G.’s long aide had
borne down on the parties and shoved the
supports under their knees. These are
strenuous days.
In November Major Reginald M. Ilore,
son of the late John Hore, was married to
Sybil Smyth, a Sydney girl, in London. Mrs.
Hore. sen., lives nowadays at St. Ivilda
(A ic.), and the Smyth girls—Marjorie in-
cluded—have been V.A.-ing on the other side
for the last three years.
A December wedding will interest very
many. Zoe Snape, of Manly, and A.
McPhillamy, of Forbes, grandson of Charles
McPhillamy of Orton Park. On the mother’s
side he is a grandson of Henry Halloran,
poet, who used to be principal Under-Secre-
tary of N. S. Wales.
Died of the war, Mrs. Danger Owen, wife
of the well-known K.C. The burning
patriotism and intense devotion of this splen-
did Irishwoman wore her to a mere thread
of nervous energy. One of the first half-
dozen pioneers in Red Cross work, she had,
with one brief holiday forced by a break-
down, kept on slogging hard since August.
1914. Food meant nothing if the duty in
hand pressed hard. She lashed her
delicate frame to make it answer the imperi-
ous call of her indomitable spirit to give up
everything for that long red trail of wounded
who are the care of the Red Cross.
Collapsing at last under the strain, she
died, after a brief illness, on November 30—
Our Day for the British Red Cross. The
news was held back with a desire not to
depress a legion of friends who were bat-
tling for the cause in city and suburbs.
1 here is an only son at the war and two
{laughters to carry on their mother’s magnifi-
cent record of imperishable service.
The Women’s Handicrafts show was
opened at the Education Building’s gallerv
m the dawn of this we. k. Mrs. J. B. Chris-
tian is president. Fine stitchery is the
trump card.
lancD— Da " reports business brisk in Eng-
The late P. H. Osborne’s damsel Nan, of Curran-
dooley, was married at St. Paul’s, Knightsbridge
Pn, » -* 19 ’ iu Eric Ge ° rge oakle - v > of Lawrence
She wore Sllver gauze and had five
pink-chiffon maidens—all nieces of one or other
party to aid her. There were no invitations of
he common or peace-time variety; instead, Mrs
Osborne gave a party to wounded soldiers from dif-
erent hospitals. Bride’s brother Pat gave her
heWd h nd / gr °° m ’ S br ° ther ’ who *• * colonel,
helped him to accept the gift. The bride has been
66 u 63 n• ln V ° lUnta!y "'ar-working at Boulogne.
Clive, the Billjim son of the C. T. AV Murravs
of Sydney or thereabouts, has handed a ring to Eva
Preston, daughter of a Hampshire rectory; and
e man Robms, also big-game hunting with the
n S 1 Pr ° m ' S2 from Katherine Whiting, of
dad 18 » C.B. Likewise Dora Tearne
of Noith Sydney, and Sub-Lieut. W. a. Elliot, R.X.’
member of a Dorset Naval family, havfi ' "
ment with the local prelate. ' a PPoint-
The Maori Isles also got in a
Leslie Maunsell, who comes from Liellt-
recently captured a Military Cross and 811,1
mans, has married Miss Katie Mart™?!* Gtr
Bexhill; and Major Thomas Grant Crn^^" 8 ’ tf
tings, who is with the It.G.A. has nrnm ', 0f Has '
his pay with a nice Anglo-Indian girl to . Sh ;‘"'
Harmen. 8a > Isabel
lheie has been a L,eague of Ltm
party to give outsiders l notin''', P v" 8 ’
charming you can matte a long h«L,
room with fresh paint, mats and easv oh - ky
The result is the little nest n f ?lrs-
and rest-rooms for girls Vn, , tea '
in Kent-street. York-street /‘own
amongst them Sargoods and WrflS*'
have guaranteed three years’ rent V'
it is possible to serve a light 'i„ ,
for threepence upwards; and tired lor?
girls in adjacent warehouses find it a small
heaven after pacing the unfriendly street?!
lunch-hour. eis 1U
This pretty gj,.j
good comrade and
erstwhile busy press
woman is v in ,.
Murdoch, the heroine
of Mrs Montv
Drover’s lmen tea
this week. About 20
women journalists,
who conspired to
give Nina a wedding
present, will then
(it’s Thursday after-
noon) hand over the
goods. They will
arrive clutching, be-
sides, their little
gifts towards the
future Mrs. Brown’s
linen cupboard. The
wedding will be
almost immediately.
Of matters other than orange-blossoms
‘Rosna” writes :—•
The third daughter of the Currandooley Osbornes
Charlotte, is mourning the death in action of her
husband, Brig.-General Maxwell, who has fought in
all sorts of wars since he was a lad and was
formerly in India. He had a V.C., a D. 5.0., and
several charming youngsters. Another of Mrs. p.
H. Osborne’s sons-in-law, General Peake, was killed
only last month.
G. B. Lancaster, the retiring little lady who is
really Miss Edith Lyttleton, but whose virile novels
still deceive English critics into calling her Mr. Lan-
caster, is one of those angels who entertain Anzacs
unawares. Her hospitable home at Ealing is
always besieged, not only by her own Maori Islanders,
but by Billjim and his brethren and his sisters
and his nurses. She is fairly near the 3rd Austra-
lian Auxiliary Hospital, and godmothers many of
the 500 legless and armless heroes of that cheerful
institution.
This reminds me that Bulletins for Billjim still
come to me (c/o British Australasian) from Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, Fiji, Siam, Hong Kong, Majorca,
Japan, San Francisco, Canada, Chile and the Argen-
tine. I’d like the kindly senders to see how the
hospital visitors are mobbed by the boys when a
mail comes in, and how we are nearly mobbed by
the hospital visitors when it doesn’t.
The Firm has lent (I guess there’s no
choice when Mrs. Boult gets into action)
the Theatre Royal to the Joan of Arc com-
mittee for a matinee on December 15. To
help Daddy Christmas keep his contract
with the kiddies of our soldiers who have
fallen.
Ihe Y.M. having had a brilliant innings,
the Y.W. now puts its apron on. The Red
Cross gets the first cut at the joint to be
dished up in the Town Hall on December
11. Lady Helen Ferguson removes the
cover.
Saw the ultimate boot the other day. There
can be nothing more piebald this side of
Jordan. It had a white toecap set in its
inky-black upper. After this, the zebra is a
simple color-schemer.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


BECHSTEIN.
THESE WELL-KNOWN PIANOS
have been converted into
Player Pianos
and are giving the utmost
satisfaction. We will be glad
to give you the names and
addresses of the owners of these
instruments, as well as many
others who have had their
silent pianos converted.
You owe it
to yourself
to test
WHY!
if
*
7
MR. E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
LIPP.
The
Player Action
can be inserted in your upright
or grand piano, and understand
every instrument is fully
guaranteed.
Sold by over 1000 representatives
in the United States of America
alone, which fact speaks for itself.
me
PLAYER PIANO
the. player that plays with a soul
THE INSTRUMENT YOU WERE BORN TO PLAY
IS THE LATEST AND BEST.
IMPORTANT.
The inventor of this world-famous instrument has in the LATEST
MODELS (a huge shipment of which has just arrived) eliminated the wind
chest, thereby giving the player 50 per cent, greater one-
r _ purchasers..
the lightest and smoothest air-motor ever designed, and is practically
frictionless, with indestructible rotating metal valves instead of the usual
cumbersome wooden slides; and, in addition, has a transposing device which
enables you to play a song accompaniment in any key to suit any voice.
EXTRACT
from the “American Musical Courier."
Emidmg. principles of this new Duo-Concerto action have not been changed, certain improvements have been made
of unusual value to thetn.de at large. Va
**?«*"* o'„%S“ “t 1 andwhSTas nSS
sr&is & sr K a«,?sfi
THF FFRTiI EGENIUS OF THE MM WHO INVENTED THIS WONDERFUL PLAYER ACTION.
m , " , , , presents the Duo-Concerto player in all the niceties and subtle accuracies which have made it
famous 6 w”en o P ne demonstratea with thL player, there is that ■'feeling" that can only be compared to the satisfaction experienced
when one runs his fingers over the keyboard of a high-grade piano.
We also stock the famous Gulbransen and Dickinson Pianos.
If unable to call, send for catalogues (posted free).
CASH OR TERMS—£S DOWN AND SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
E. F. WILKS CO. LTD.
Macdonell House, 321 PITT STREET ««* ° ymcu SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
FACTORY s CORNER KENT STREET and ALBION PLACE.
Tel.: Showroom, City 10752.
Factory, City 1144.
Newcastle Representative: A. COHEN, Piano Warehouse, Maitland Road, Hamilton.


kY l
RRI. “VICTOR” UNDERWEAR is composed of
wool and cotton, woven and treated by a special process
which gives a smooth, soft finish that will not irritate
the skin. The admixture of cotton assures satisfactory
wear, suitable for all-the-year-round wear.
Undervests, with short sleeves—
Sizes . . 32. 34. 36. 38. 40. 42. 45.
PRICES 5/6 5/6 5/6 6/- 6/- 6/6 7/6
Underpants —6- 6/- 6/6 6/6 7/6 8/6
Kmcker Drawers —
—6 - 6/- 6/- 6/6 7/6
RR2. CANADIAN TWO-PIECE SURFING
COSTUME, best quality, all pure wool, no sleeves;
2-inch bar stripe: black and white, grey and white.
Sizes . . S.M. Men’s. O.S. E.O.S. Men’s.
PRICES 13/6 14/6 16/6 18/6
We Pay Carriage.
j/>v
£uj
&
1*
l '■
,//'0
A
\Aeltonian
/▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
iSPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning g Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD ,
Barrack St., Sydney:
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN
AGENCIES
SONS LONDON
ALL - OVER . THE . yy™,_ n
COOL SUITS FOR
WARM DAYS at
BUCKLEY’S
BUSINESS
OR
pleasure
Mi
v !i
■
B29I.—“FLORIDA CLOTH” SUM-
MER SUITS. This neat, feather-weight
wash fabric looks exactly like regular suiting
material —tailors and holds its shape etjualv
well. Yet it washes without the slightest
sign of shrinkage or wrinkling. Made in Ah
Sizes, in many attractive patterns.
PRICE 55/-
Also in Dark- and Mid-Grey Tropical Worsteds,
“CRAVENETTE” Showerproof finished,
suitable for Business Wear. Price... 100/-
ACCEPT OUR ASSURANCE that
ordering by Mail is satisfactory
with Buckley’s.
Write for further particulars.
BUCKLEY S NDNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, December 3, 1917.
My Dear Y aerie.—
For the love of Heaven and our men, tell
the women to hurry up with heaps of old
linen for lint and bandages! The Red Cross
people are growing desperate, the c&U for
these hospital requirements being in their
ears days and night. The stores are
dwindling rapidly. After reading this,
please go through your stock of old linen
and sort out the old soft stuff—as much as
you can possibly spare, for huge quantities
are needed. Send it in clean to any Red
Cross depot. The Crossers will prepare it
for medical use and transport.
Clive Phillips, the 19-year-old son of dead
Pharez, is called the mascot of his battalion.
He is a small, fair pocket edition of great
charm and grit, and had one sad and curious
experience. lie found and buried on the
battlefield the body of Sam Rosenthal, a per-
sonal friend who had been reported missing.
Gladys Taylor Hain, LL.B.. is with her
soldier husband at Tidworth, England, where
he is a legal off-sider to the Deputy-Advocate-
General, or some other dispenser of martial
law. Gladys, wisely abandoning her first
idea of a problem novel, is about to produce
another book of sketches. Tidworth is a
Billjim rendezvous and an inexhaustible
treasure-house of soldier stories.
Mrs. Guy Madden assures me that it is
quite wrong. Capt. Guy isn’t at Salisbury
Plains—never has been there. He has an
English command on the Italian Front at
Piave.
Vivian, the Herbert Powers’ youngest son,
has been listed missing. He got away
with the Bananaland Billjims over two years
ago, and was fighting in France. This deter-
mined Australian was medically rejected in
Melbourne and Sydney, and had hardly taken
his first real walk after typhoid and appendi-
citis before getting into a Brisbane camp.
Elder brother Reggie has left the cavalry
in Salonika in order to get into the
trenches.
Wealthy young benedicts look for the escape
door when they see Baronet Rupert Clarke
approaching. The good sport thinks that
every fit man who is able to leave his wife
and children in affluence has as much right
to help defend them and the Empire as any
bachelor. Several of our few remaining
younger married men have had to stand to
attention whilst Rupert told them frankly
what he thought of them. He is fully en-
titled to act the recruiting-sergeant, for he
has done his bit and done it well.
A cable from London says that Major
Gregor Knox, who has added a bar to his
Military Cross and lost a leg, has just under-
gone another operation and had a few lumps
of lead taken from his arm.
Miss Pennefather, a Tasmanian girl re-
membered in Melbourne as a wonderful
horsewoman who wore very pale gold hair,
a perfect complexion and well-cut tailorings,
is now in London working hard for our boys
on furlough. She hunts up lonely soldiers
short of money or friends, and finances them
from a fund supplied by friends of her own
in Australia. The little work is growing,
and Miss Pennefather has formed a helping
committee of Australians in the Fog. Mrs.
Ilammersley, G. B. Lancaster, Mr. Leslie
Jenner and Mr. and Mrs. George Stephens
are now assisting. A depot has been estab-
lished in Collins-street to sell Christmas
gifts and swell the funds that go London-
ward. The workers call themselves The
Australian Friendless Soldiers’ Abroad
Comforts Fund Association, and they man-
age to stagger along happily under the tre-
mendous signboard.
Thursday, December G, is the date of a
big Gift Evening at the St. Kilda Town
Hall. The promoters want money, tinned
goods, produce and other things for the Red
Cross.
St. Kilda Mayor and Mayoress O’Donnell
and the members of the St. Kilda Patriotic
Committee are spreading the glad paste-
board for the official opening of the carnival
at Luna Park on December 8.
December 8 is also the date of the second
annual meeting of the Camberwell Conva-
lescent Home for Soldiers. President
Mcßeath is asking folk to a party at High-
ton, Balwyn—the home of the late R. S.
Smythe. Major-Gen. Legge and Col. Fred
Bird will speak.
Lucky Bag Day still rolls on like thunder.
The grand finale will be an orchestral con-
cert on December 15 in the Town Hall.
The State Parliament raises steam again
on December 4. Invitations are out for the
usual splash of tea in the President’s room,
and the Old Guard are preparing to rush the
balcony in their best millinery.
Mrs. Sternberg, off to the hills for a cool
spell, gave a farewell party on the new roof-
garden at Scott’s. This garden is a recent
innovation that threatens to disturb the
monastic atmosphere of the tall hotel. It is
very comfy and cool, and the view is fine.
One wedding is so much like another, my
dear, that I’m sure you will be glad to notice
one a little out of the ordinary, hinted at
rather than described in the Herald :
As the result of a quarrel at 2 a.m. to-day at the
house of a local (Mortlakc) resident, where a wed-
ding was being celebrated, David Melville had to
receive medical attention. He was kicked on the
head and face.
Evidently quiet but pretty, with a nice col-
lection of bruises among the presents.
The luck of the Toorak Campbells seems
out. This year the head of the house
passed out some weeks after two soldier
sons had fallen in France within a fortnight
of each other. Now comes news of the
serious illness of eldest daughter Alice, who,
like the rest of the family, devoted herself to
patriotic work.
Chief-recruiter Donald Mackinnon’s hand-
some missus is coming home across the
haunted seas. She and elder daughter
Hilary went to England to see how young
Donald’s wounds were healing. Hilary
looked round for a war job and for a time
risked her fair neck in the horse-breaking
department, until >a nasty fall ended that
patriotic chapter.
A bunch of Melbourne girls have gone
caravanning. Betty MacMuJlen and a couple
of Rutledges and Cunningliames are of the
party. The last despatch received by their
pals was that they were nearly wrecked off
the crossroads of Ilealesville. And there
are dark stories of adventures with bull-ants
and of hair that won’t crimp. The Order of
the bath has been bestowed on them by
friends along the line of march. But can
they really resist the babbling, ferny creeks
these hot days?
Handsome Jack Dane, well known on the
Block a decade ago, is heard of in London
doing a war job for the British Government.
He is now a well-settled benedict with a
tiio of daughters. Mrs. Jack was one of the
pretty Hunter girls, of Bendigo. Another
member of the Dane family, Norah Dane
Valenti, was last heard of from troubled
Italy. She and her husband were living al
Milan.
Dr. Gould, who has cheered so many Mel-
bourne women through dull hours, is busy
packing up his stethoscope and labelling his
luggage “Ocean Island.” He has acquired
enough white clothes to last for two years.
Miss Adelaide’s depositions :
We’ve been busy the last few days at our old trade
of pocket-picking. On Saturday there was a carnival
at Campbelltown for the S. Aus. Soldiers’ and Red
Cross funds, and a fair at the Semaphore for the
Cheer-Up Society. It was one of the few decent
Saturdays we have been blessed with lately. There
was woe at Campbelltown, nevertheless, for the State
War Council had vetoed a street collection.
Patriotic concerts have also been w’ell patronised—
one for the Trench Comforts Fund at Richmond on
Saturday, another for the Red Cross in the Queen’s
Hall on Thursday, and a third for the Cheer-Up
Society in the Exhibition on Tuesday. The Governor
turned up for the Exhibition concert, where the show
was given by the sailors and soldiers themselves—
and an excellent programme it w r as.
Jack Virgo, the Y.M.C.A. electric wire, who was
largely responsible for putting the society on
its legs here, is leaving London (he’s secretary
there now, you know) for America, where he is to
help in raising a trifle of £7,300,000 for the benefit
of Uncle Jonathan's troops.
New’s has come from England of the death of
Surg.-Gen. W. S. Pratt, C. 8., who served in the
Franco-Prussian war in 1870 with Bazaine’s army.
His widow is a sister of Mrs. George Box, who
founded, and for a good many years managed, our
Queen Adelaide Club.
There was only one nomination for the city
Mayoralty, so Aid. C. R. Glover will drape himself
in the vacated rabbitskins. The new’ head Bumble
has had 12 years’ experience in the Council. He is
one of this State’s keenest Freemasons, and, like his
wife, has done a good deal in a quiet w’ay to help
local charities, the Creche being, one of his special
protegees.
Another wail comes from the North, where grass-
hoppers—and not for the first time this season-
held up the train near Gumbowie. They were so
dense in the air that they resembled a duststorm
and so thick on the lines" that, after an hour’s fruit-
less effort, the train had to* be divided and run in
two sections to the nearest siding.
- The Liberal Union has decided to run W. G.
Duncan for the Midlands district seat in the Leg
Council the seat which was held by his father, the
late John Duncan, for many years.
The much-postponed Red Cross Gala Revue w’as
staged in the Theatre Royal on Friday night, before
a packed audience that included the Governor and
Lady Galway. A Union Jack auctioned on what we
know here as the Bugler system brought in £560,
and French and Belgian flags each added £5. The
total proceeds were over £lOOO.
On the same day the first pile of the State War
Council’s Soldiers’ Hostel was driven by Mrs.
Blundell. The hostel, which is to be close to the
Cheer-Up Hut, is for men whose homes are in the
country but who must still be in town for medical
treatment, and for others who are still on the sick
list. It will contain sleeping accommodation for 50,
nurses’ quarters and a roomy central lounge. At a
lunch at the Hut to celebrate the event Senator
Pearce and Mr. Cook were guests, and their Federal
Excellencies looked in during the afternoon.
A paragraphist in last week’s Bulletin described
Crawford Vaughan’s brother-in-law, ex-Minister for
Lands Clarence Goode, as unmarried. “Clar” Goode
was a widower for some time, but several years ago
remarried. Tremendously earnest people these
Goodes. There is at least one of them who didn’t
reckon even a wife and numerous family sufficient
warrant to keep him out of the front trench in
France. But Clarence probably sees that that was
a mistake. Anyhow, like many more almost-middle-
aged married men, the one who went had to be
returned after his first wound.
Little Rosalind Smeaton, who twinkled as
the mannequin in “Potash and Perlmutter”
and other Williamson shows, is honeymoon-
ing in Gippsland with her soldier bridegroom
—young Beddome, from Tasmania.
The widow Staughton has offered her ball-
room at St. Neots, Domain-road, to the
Cahill-Brookes duet for another concert. It
will happen on December 15. and a swaggah
house is already booking. The Allen dame is
helping Mrs. Staughton and Mrs. G. R.
Davidson to work up the melodious affair.
Bananalander Cahill, the fuzzy-haired boy
pianist, is proudly publishing a gavotte of
his own composition. The bit of melody took
the fancy of Lady Stanley at a recent party,
and the composer is being allowed to dedi-
cate it to her. Her Ex. is thinking out a
name for the inspiration.
Charles Manby, a Melbourne violin-
teacher, is trying to give Melbourne a few
helpings of what he considers the right kind
of orchestral stuff. The first spread was
offered at the Town Hall on Tuesday of last
week, three different orchestras providing
the goods, together and separately. One of
them was a children’s orchestra. Manby
lias some original—some people say weird —
ideas. He has patented a new sort of fiddle,
for one thing. A dozen years ago he taught
at the Uni. Conservatorium, and used to get
his pupils to practise together—an all-fiddle
orchestra that caused considerable local
enlivenment. He proposes to give 10 sym-
phony concerts in the near future, so musical
Melbourne will not go empty, whatever the
quality of the fare may prove to be. "Madame
Lila Jaques,” who is Mrs. Manby and used
to be a former pupil of Manby’s at the
Con., helps him in his experiments.
Stella Power has packed her pink fare-
well frock, put the proceeds of her concert
in her purse and started off with her
teacher and friend, Miss Campbell, to
America. Freda Sternberg, Melba’s secre-
tary, follows about Christmas.
George Armstrong has received a cable
from mamma that she is still feeling the
effects of her accident. Melba’s left wrist
was fractured and her back and arms
severely bruised, but her warble has not been
impaired and is still being used for patriotic
purposes.
Maude Fane had our new Gaud Mayor at
her feet the other night when swinging over
the stalls at Her Majesty’s on the boom of
the s.s. High Hope and flirting in her sleep.
Frank Stapley was among those who took
part in the game of hunt-the-slipper, and he
secured one with a £1 War Savings certifi-
cate inside.
May Yale hopes her friends will come and
see her latest paintings, enamels and novel-
ties at tile Besant Lodge, Centreway, on
December 5 and following days.
Authoress Ivathie Prichard, Maisie
Maxwell and some other penwomen are rais-
ing funds for a memorial to poor Sumner
Locke, . and those who would like to partici-
pate in a tribute to the memory of a plucky
and gifted young Australian may send dona-
tions to the ladies mentioned, care of Mel-
bourne Herald.
“Mrs. Dot,” at the Theatre Royal on
Saturday, was a clothes sensation. The
wealthy brewer’s widow dresses exquisitely
(she has £30,000 a year stage money for the
purpose) and wears a sumptuous first-act
frock in which to propose to her diffident,
poverty-stricken lover, who is a lordling
named Gerald. Dull greens and tawny
colors are mixed up in a perfection of satins,
silks and chiffons, all weighted with heavy
clumps of fox fur. Her first expensive pro-
posal being rejected, she tries again at her
country-house in simple muslin, a sash and
a dangerous mauve parasol. The plotter
keeps on changing until the last act, when
she is called a “silly little fool,” and hugged
to the heart of her adored one. One dress is
ivory ninon over fleshings of pink satin—
very naughty and seductive. Nancye
Stewart, daughter of Nellie, makes a good
girlish foil to Marie Tempest. She carries
her pinkish-fair hair like a smnnH,
plate and wears dreams of flapS?wS lon '
Muriel Starr boxed at the Royal on tvi
mght to see Marie Tempest hi “a V day
Silk Stockings’’ and made a terrhk wZiZ
o, applause which drew much atteZi tter
herself The just-returned lady s !°
flutter “The Bird of Paradise” very so™ °
The roll of helpers at Wirths’ R P «t- n’
runs to 300, and they are all working? 6
love of Billjim. In fact, everyone H f ° r
bar the chef, is a voluntary wS .ST’
earns twice as much as he receives wv e
a boatload of returned lads arrives he tf
the tables piled up with all sorts of tem n ?
mg disnes, which Billjim says Menzies’ eZ’t
beat There is no snobbishness. Doris R ul
wood takes her turn at peeling spuds aha
washing cashes, and the 0.C., Lieut.-Colonel
Pleasance, mixes his tennis with am Zf
vate who plays. J lU '
Muri el Starr in a box with Grace
Palotta, shoved lean bare shoulders out If!
pmk-prune dress and carefully watched tbt
act,,.* of Harvey her leading mfn
I lie magnificent Bloomfield spread an acre
or s° _°f shirt-front in another box with his
wfe in black chiffon. One of the Rockes
and friend Arthur Cohen entertained a war-
battered but happy Australian in their hoy
Y\ eston I ett laid down his busy little
patriotic flute for the evening and enjoyed
lady Sh ° W Wlth lliS legal white ' tulle clad
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


(«
BLACK
and
1
i
Wife';**
■mm
r •
HH
v#:
m
m.
W
i
■
i
ak:-i
kSSI
» ass?
si
-F
Wi
«| . •.1
’
gg|H|
If
.
.
BSKISSK
<
■ ■ J*. ..-. • J
“ the highl
mxma
■
I .* mt
gf i*i':
l
■, -
y ~■ F :•■• ■
f ■■'•!■ r ~ m:
Sp^j^liK'.:'' %■■''.' ■-*■
*
f\:
wm
$
,>v & •■ s#*' * ‘
/VD BRIGADE.”
WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD .


PJ*
1
Kill
il- m
"i-m
■pys-
1
RUY the British White Stocking
to-day—“ Jason ” Elite—of all
Drapers.
Try the cooling, skin-soothing effect of this
Jason hot-weather wear, a very special
line bearing the “ Jason ” Brand, which guarantees
the finest, silkiest “ finish ever put on a stocking.
Wear “ Jason because of their quality, their entirely
British make, and the satisfaction ensured by the
brand—
-94
99
Quality Stockings & Socks for Ladies, Children & Men.
Illustration shows the "jason” Elite Stocking.
Finest woven plain mercerised lisle leg, ankle &
instep and all-wool 3-in. double top. Specially
strengthened wool foot ; in champagne, black & white.
Drapers and Outfitters everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
JASON HOSIERY CO., LEICESTER, ENG.
Jk
M
£
The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
£>_ Say WHEN
1 »
I 4^
2H K
r
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
‘‘Jimmie Pannikin”: I have often seen
references to the “quadrille parties,” “eorroborees”
and “dances’ of the Australian crane (inappropri-
ately named the native-companion), but I have
never seen any mention of this interesting bird’s
games. During my divagations (I love that wander
word!) West-o’-Sunset I have often observed the
bird playing “catchings” with a stick, say a foot
long and about an inch thick. I first saw this bit
of Outback cricket while duck shooting near Yanta-
bulla, the place famous for the production of
Buckley’s rum. One bird picked up a small dead
stick with its beak, and tossed it to its nearest
neighbor, dancing joyously all the time. The stick
was tossed from bird to bird in regular order.
Rarely was there a miscatch; but when a brolga did
miss the stick, its mates uttered curious cries, as if
poking a bit of Outback borak at the butter-fingers.
I witnessed the same bird-game not far from Grenfell,
and at various places in the Open Spaces. I often
realised the truth of the great Gould’s wise words
about the brolga: “Its presence adds greatly to the
interest of the scenery.”
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: I don’t agree with “tickle” (B.
1/11/’l7) when he includes the mopoke among the
half-dozen birds with the “most mournful, depress-
ing and nerve-racking cries.” The mopoke’s is a
sweetly sad call that most bush-bred people like to
hear. Our 12 most notable bird voices are those of
the wonga wonga, stone curlew, kookaburra, eigle
owl, bellbird, mopoke, whipbird, boobook, myrlumb-
ing (night or spinifex parrot), catbird, bittern and
channel bill. Others whose voices compel notice
wherever heard are the black swan, with its soft,
musical call as it passes overhead at night; the
cuckoo, one of the best-remembered in connection
with spring; the brolga, whose grating trumpet
arrests you fr»m the cloud world; and the black
shag, whose vibrant croak is associated with clear
lagoons and river reaches.
“Larrikin”: I’ve done a bit of nursing out
back o’ beyond, and the rummiest patient I ever
struck was a young kanga. One of the camp crowd
had shot the mother and had an idea of rearing the
joey. He picked on me for the rough work. I
began by giving the baby a rag dipped in sugar
and milk; then I got busy with a feeding-bottle
and a baby’s “comforter” that I cadged from a
selector’s wife. To see that ’roo sitting up chewing
the “dummy” was something weird. We christened
her Petunia Malara, after the station. Every
morning Petunia had to be chased around as an
appetiser for her breakfast, and every night she had
to be put to bed in blankets in a gin-case. She
used to turn-in per somersault as if she were going
into mother’s pouch. Then she began to sicken. She
used to get stone cold and cramp set in, so she had
to be massaged and warmed. I chucked in the
camp cat as a hot-water bag, but Petunia did the
warming that trip—puss came out with a rip in
her side. Then I got four bottles and filled them
with hot water, putting two alongside and two
to Petunia’s splay feet. I also opened her jaws and
poured some whisky into her. All failed. She
passed in her alley, and once more love’s labor was
lost.
* * # *
“Lantana” : Three boys at Swanfels (Q.)
came across several snakes close by a log. They
sailed in with sticks, and after killing all in sight
they turned the log over and found the rest of the
family at home. Total bag 16, and three extras
close by. In the kill there were one tiger, one
red or copper-color and 17 brown ones. The tiger
and red snakes were lodging u’ith 14 browns at the
log, and all the devils measured five feet and
upwards.
* * ♦ *
“Copabella”: Ant-nest ovens used to be
popular in the mountain country at the head of the
Nicholson River (Vic.). A few years ago, w’hen driv-
ing a pack-train with meat and groceries in that
region, I came across some fossickers who had turned
a nest into an aristocrat among ovens. The punky
stringy-bark butt around which the Gippsland ants
usually build had been burnt out in the usual way
and the resultant hollow further gouged to take a half
kero, tin cut longways. The hole left by the burnt
tree-trunk made the flue, and a piece of oil-drum
hammered out flat made a close-fitting door to the
oven. Those fossickers’ loaves, in color, texture,
shape and taste, couldn’t have been told from the
genuine price-fixed article sold at illegal, rates over
a suburban shop counter. Many’s the good slice
of it I enjoyed after 40 miles in the saddle.
“Mick the Preacher”: The most officious
dog I know has attached himself to the Innisfail
(N.Q.) tramway. He never bothers about riding,
but runs ahead and chases cows, pigs, horses, goats
and fowls off the line. He does the trip to
Mourilyan Harbor (12 miles) and back three times
a week, and three times a week he clears the way
to South Johnstone and Berner’s Creek, a trip of
about 36 miles in the day. He is of no particular
breed, as far as I know —just a plain four-legged
hustler w'ho thinks he is running the universe.
RESULTS.
HE: “And how are you getting on with your collecting for the soldiers?”
SHE: “Perfectly! I've had my name in the papers four times already.”
NO HALF-LOAFING.
“Now, then, ladies, hin to hup ter yer necks, or hout of it hall together.”
“Ornis” : The trouble with the Cootamun-
dra wattles of “F.C.” (B. 1/11/’l7) is that they are
suffering from a bad attack of parasitic fly. I have
seen a large tree look as though it were heavily laden
with grapes. The diminutive apples he speaks of
are really galls. They are caused by the grubs of
several species of gall-making insects; some are
tiny wasps, others minute flies. The female flies
and wasps lay their eggs in the embryo seed-pods.
The resultant grubs destroy these and in their
places there appear the red and green galls. Should
any be cut open .the little maggots will be found at
home. Numerous beneficial insects graft hard at
keeping the pests under, but unsuccessfully. The
black and silver wattles, especially the latter, are
likewise much affected; so are peppermint-gums
and other trees. The number of kinds of gall-
making insects is legion.
“F.E.M.” : “Pick’s” mention (B. 18/10/T7)
of the use of flares at night to attract birds reminds
me of the use the wily Bananaland youngster put
the night-light to when the Cane Boards offered
a rewaj'd for the destruction of the cane-beetle.
Every evening the youths of the sugar districts went
out into the fields, armed with lantern, sheet and
tub of water. Attracted by the light, the beetles
dashed up against the stretched-out sheet and fell
back into the waiting tub. Thousands were thus
secured and good money obtained at the rate of
4d. per lb. of beetle. Some cunning trappers in-
creased their dividends by loading the beetles with
shot, and this went on for some time before detec-
tion. After that the bag was paid for by the
thousand.
* * * *
“Papua”: The par. by “McNorth” (B.
14,/6/’l7) about the old identities of New Guinea
recalls Nicholas Minister, the sawn-off, hard-
baked, fearless and reckless Greek, who roved the
Western Pacific, blackbirding, trading, diving and
hunting a living in other less righteous ways. In
the Straits of Torres back in the early ’eighties he ran
his lugger with a European mate and crew of raw
savgges still with the murder-lust strong in their
veins. One afternoon of driving rain and shrieking
wind the mate took the dinghy ashore for wood and
water. His long absence alarmed the skipper, who
went ashore to see what was wrong. He had a revol-
ver and belt of ammunition with him and a hefty
bowie-knife. He found the dinghy chopped into splin-
ters, and the remains of his mate lying amongst the
wreck. Not a sign of the “boys” could he find, but
it was clear that they had killed the mate and made off
to the village on the other side of the island. Nick
decided to follow them up and hand out a lesson in
the good, old-fashioned manner of the Pacific when
the only' law was a gun. The proceedings after he
reached Binghi s town were fierce and very destructive.
The Greek and his two boys left the place a smoking
ruin. After a pipe and a bit of grub the party
followed up the fleeing cannibals to hand out further
sudden death to them, but they r had grabbed their
canoes and disappeared. Nick returned to the lugger
and as he ran alongside Hell arose in the form of a
dozen howling savages. One of the boat crew was
brained as he arose to steady the dinghv while his
boss gathered up his gun. Nick shot calmly, and
those he didn t kill took cover. Night was coming
fast and the white man sculled away into the gloom,
so the mob aboard the lugger reckoned he had
cleared for good. But in a couple of hours he was
back again to interrupt them in their pleasing task
of looting the ship. He arrived by the bowsprit,
and, followed by the boy with the axe, rushed the
crowd and drove them below. As he had only about
a dozen cartridges left he supplemented the gun
with a windlass handle. The wiping out of the
mutineers soon ended, a few managing to get over-
board with various wounds, and the “old man”
after them with the dinghy. Then the principal
event of the scran took place. Nicholas smiled with
pleasure as he told me how he “got” two of the
swimming men with his gun, and then, unable to
contain himself any longer, went overboard after
the last man and fought him to the death in the
water. “I got him good an’ hard by the throat
an’ wool an’ drowned him quick.” He looked like a
fiend as he ended the tale, and we sat in silence for
about five minutes. Then he stood up and said
he would have to turn in. “The doctor says this
night air is dangerous for me with the rheumatics 1”
WRONGLY INFORMED.
BULLOCKY : “Young Bob’s goin’ to the tear,
is he? He’ll have to look out. Fightin’s
terrible over there now. Even fightin'
up in the sky."
OLD BOB: “By cripe, that Salvation Army
phella plurry liar. Him bin tellem me
eberybody up there berry friendly.”
“Bill R.” : “Uckle” (B. 1/11/’l7), who
places the curlew’s wail as the most depressing cry
of our native nocturnal birds, can never have heard
the screech-owl of the N.S.IV. South Coast ranges.
This blood-freezer, after a preliminary low “woosh-
woosh” that reminds one of a butcher’s cleaver
cutting through meat, sends ringing among the
echoes an awful gasping shriek that inspires the
instant notion of a woman in supreme agonies.
There are few campers who, hearing the cry for the
first time, have not had their sleep cut off at the
meter for the night, and I once knew fossickers on
Mount Dromedary who tumbled out of tents and
searched the surrounding jungle, until a repetition
of the screech above their heads satisfied them that,
after all, it wasn’t an Italian opera madame being
butchered.
(Continued, on page 24.)
THE AIR-RAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hero pictured ’gainst the moon
The sullen monster drifting slow,
The bursting bombs, the land a swoon
In reek and mist of smoke below—
The tearing, rending roars that lift
The very hills, and rivers shift.
Old Ayseed heard. lie gaped with awe
At every bolt. With faith’s keen eye
The quaking countryside he saw;
Then breathed commiseration’s sigh.
“My word,” said he, with puckered brows,
“That sort of thing is bad for cows! ”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


*
0
u
jamijotmcami
&
i
wm.
EXCLUSIVE XMAS
:: GIFTS at ::
RICHARD HUNT’S.
In Selecting a Xmas Gift for a
man, of fastidious taste, a
woman must purchase at a shop
that Specialises in Men’s Wear.
For those who can discriminate
we are showing a Collection of
Attractive Designs in Silks and
Taffetas for Men’s and Boys’
Shirtings and Blouse Lengths,
or Washing Costumes for
Women.
All these Shirtings have been
selected with infinite care -with
regard to color and design.
SILK SHIRTS SPITALFIELD’S
and SILKS FOR
PYJAMAS. NECKWEAR.
Distinctive Ties to Order.
Special Shapes.
Call or write for prices and
particulars.
JQichard Hunt&Co
3H George St. Sydney
V/C£ REGAL SHIRTMAKERS
TUSSORETTE "NOTHING” SUITS.
These famous 3-Garment Washing Suits are made
by and obtainable only from The Leviathan.
“Nothing” Suits are as cool as ocean breezes.
They are so light in weight as to give you a feeling
of having “Nothing” of weight on—hence their
name. They are skilfully tailored in the style
shown, from strongly-woven Egyptian Cotton
Tussorettes, and may be had in PLAIN OK
STRIPE DESIGNS, in Biscuit, Straw, or Stone
shades.
Wear a “ Nothing ” Suit and
enjoy Summer comfort: —
(Suits measuring over 42-inch Chest,
2/6 extra.)
“TUSSORA ” SHIRTS
Buy some of these for wearing with your “Nothing”
Suit. “Tussora” looks just like Tussore Silk, but
wears better by far and retains its good appear-
ance after many washings. Made with Soft-
double Cuffs and Soft-double Collar to match.
Fitted with “SPLIT-SLEEVES” (to give correct
set to cuffs) ; “SLEEVE-LIFTS” (to regulate
sleeve length), and REINFORCED INLAY
FRONTS (to double the life of each shirt).
COMPLETE WITH COLLAR TO
MATCH,
7/6.
(3 for 21/-)
■■■
STRAW BOATERS
Most of our Boaters are fitted with
the famous “Ivy Grip” attachment
which makes them conform quickly to
the shape of any head.
RUSTIC STRAW BOATERS.—
With 3-inch Crowns and 2-inch
Brims 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6
FINE PEDAL STRAW BOATERS.
With Crowns and 2§in. Brims.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6
COOL PANAMAS ,
JAP PANAMAS. —
Extra light and cool; newest
shapes. 2£in. Brims .. 10/6, 12/6
WHITE BLEACH TOYO
PANAMAS 15/6, 17/6
REAL NATIVE PANAMAS. —
Made in South America. The cool-
est and lightest hats that money can
buy 21/-, 30/-, 35/-
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston 8 Bourke Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
HOLDER of THE FREEDOM of THE CITY of LONDON
RECOMMENDS THE USE OF
Heans Tonic Nerve Nuts
UTmtirmt 1
'Zq cSUi. j
Mr. H. SI JERDAN.
cjSnnnni' -
\ _p v Ls -- wcm ocHuvftc^
Uuo \Hc Saa.W W> t£c 9cc&/uUunv i<uv Hur .of
CO cwtoaofc cvc t&c &oo& xwt£ t£c Ju*Ua_Qto
SxccWo W> rfk OWjWo of r&_Z2/£_^
_ .<•/> n n ■ n.O -c •. i?._ »„1#
CffW- of of t&c /klcs (icH to iwLCcLwio affvxoc) OccUO uv \lu (iiux«Jycx of itvc (D'udbfuUt of
tfvc oewte b<*A\ omE> a^ovcottvt)
Tf fall _ thp lot o£ comparatively few men to have conferred upon them the distinguished honor of the Freedom of the
ri ., Iwp theoutbreak ofthe war several of our prominent public men have been granted the Freedom of
City of Lon ). > , h int Sydney optician, received the honor some few years ago, when he brilliantly passed
Spectacle Makers, the highest degree obtainable in the optical profession.
Knowing that Mr Jerdan was the holder of the Freedom of the City of London, we sought his permission to have it reproduced,
feeling that many of our readers would like to see such a certificate.
Others who suffer from nerve troubles will be more interested in reading what Mr. Jerdan has to say about HE AN S
TONIC NERVE NUTS. Here it is: — a ,
387 George Street, Sydneys
~ . . August 29, 1917.
G. W. Hean, Esq., Chemist. & „
Dear sir,—Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts are highly efficacious, and I can thoroughly recommend them for any
form of neurasthenia which most eye sufferers develop.—Yours faithfully,
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS
The Modern Home Remedy for
Headaches
Backache
Neuralgia
Lassitude
Brain Fag
Anaemia
Dyspepsia
Palpitation
Hysteria
Insomnia and other
Neurasthenic
Conditions
Are
obtainable from all Leading Chemists and Stores, or by post, from G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Besides being effective
health-builders, HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS are very economical; boxes containing 12
days’ treatment cost only 3/- each, or six boxes for 17/3.


Martin's Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladier recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemirt, Southampton.—Advt.
MEGGITT’S
LfNSEED oiImEAL
m
/AE
PAR
/
v
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal
Greatest Food for
Stock in the World.
TESTIMONY OF SATISFIED FARMERS.
11 'good.‘' Pl6aSe s “ d °anSher ton of Linseed Oil Meal.
ca , n take its P la ce as 1 believer in Linseed Oil Meal. I know of
I am using
“uLIS Ca Tt take its stocked and eVeI Y- Linseed oil Meal. I know of
dne it lt« “ P° ssesse f. qualities that stand out alone’ T nd dair J or ot her farmer should be with-
/ & gs d clean skin and Quote a fewr vour Rt.nnfc- ronnimo nn niedi-
out supplies. It possesses^mialinlo* A ax 'J n as a stock f ood,
anothei ton°nf m 2? Guernsey and Jersey bW a»l » b ;°, me of u the finest milking strain of
a other ton of Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal.” ' ’ d 6 glve them the best; hence our order for
"““ecu v-Jii xvieai. w , ntfiice our o
Leave ? H MEGGITT ’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
From all stores or , n Lin Seed Meal and 31b - <* bran oer day, soaked or dry.
Harrison Ramsa^Pty^Ud 8 6 "* 9 ! Clarkson Ltd > Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane
and Hobart; Blair Reed &' C 0., Wenlr^jtorT 1 °° ’ Perth :F ‘ W Heritage & Co„ Launceston
meggitt ltd
• I
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
26 King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Cina-tabu-Cagi” : Has Beatrice Grimshaw
heard of the Dakawaga at Sava Sava Bay, Vanua
Levu, the second largest island of the Fiji group?
There’s a tropical river eight miles from Valecci.
Two miles upstream a large rock occupies a sharp
bend in the river course, jutting out into the swirl-
ing waters. ’Tis here, so Tui Itaivite (the Fijian
Binghi) tells us, that the river-deity, the shark-god
Dakawaga, has his watery abode, and feasts on care-
less prawn-snaring native maidens. It’s the tidal
currents that periodically build the sandbars in
the river estuary, of course, but Tui has his own
version of these things. He vows that he can see
two beautiful maramas (maidens), with dangling
ti esses lit up in the sunlight, busily occupied in
piling up the golden sand, handful upon handful.
Of course the white man can’t see them, his vision
not being sufficiently developed, but the maidens
aie there at sunset, and the Dakawaga harms them
not.
* * * »
Oliver W.”: Talk on about your declara-
tions of war, peace offers and offensive alliances in
high diplomacy, but the smartest thing of the kind
I ever saw was the work of two Australian drunks
in front of a pub at Port Pirie (S.A.). A thickset
wharf-lumper was leaning sleepily against a post
when a big, lanky cove staggered out, waving his
arms and shouting defiantly, “I’ll fight any man in
the town! Any one of yous come on!” The thick-
set fellow (he had muscles like legs of mutton)
looked the challenger up and down, and retorted,
“You’ll fight any man in town! Blow’d if I don’t
have a piece of you!” Lanky promptly seized him
by the hand and said, “Here! You an’ me’ll fight
the whole damn town!”
* * * *
“Tack”: If “Dac” (B. 16/8/’l7) will step
over here (Northern Territory) he will find white-ant
beds or nests that can and have been used for
ovens, barn-floors and cricket pitches, etc. The
tallest or highest antbed that I have seen measured
exactly 16ft. Bin. in height. It would make an
excellent pulpit if “Dac’s” wanting one.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Australian “blow” at its
utmost is about the unearthly speed, strength and
endurance of that particular Australian’s especial
neddy. A case in point is supplied by Howard. He
was coming down from a wayback Mallee wheat area,
with a traction-engine and seven loaded waggons.
Trying to evade a bit of bad road, he struck a patch
of deceptive sand, and his engine and three waggons
were fairly down to it. He was awaiting another
tractor and as many horse teams and bullocks as
the country-side could collect, when up came a small,
wire-whiskered, bush-bred lad driving a wisp of a
bay in a sulky. The newcomer pulled in. He sur-
veyed the situation. Then he addressed the discon-
solate Howard. “Hello, mate,” said he, “d’yeh want
a haul out?”
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: Here’s a dinkum recipe for
keeping flies off horses. Sponge over lightly with a
mixture of oil of pennyroyal (one ounce) added
to one pint of olive oil or rape oil and well shaken.
This mixture applied lightly will protect an animal
from insects for a whole day. I have proved it in
the Queensland bush, where the mosquitoes made it
almost impossible to work. You can put it on your
own face and hands and continue to smile while the
flies curse visibly.
HIS FEAR.
JAGGERS: “Are you afraid (hie) you can't
get to bed without the missus (hie)
bearin' you?"
STAGGERS : “No, ole man (hie), I'm afraid
I can’t get to bed without bearin' the
(hic) missus."
VARY'S SHARE.
BOSS: “I hope you gice Mary a share of your wages, Jacky”
JACKY: “Yes, Boss. Gibbit her all the bottles to sell."
“Bob M.”: Shearer Ryan, who “cut” 2100
woollies in 11 consecutive days, certainly has my
respect; but I nominate Jimmy Gibbs for the sus-
tained-effort stakes. In 1908 at Combadello station,
Adavale (Q.), Jimmy removed 5100 overcoats in four
weeks two days. This is dinkum. Jimmy has seen
50 summers, and is still “doocing ’em” up when he
feels that way.
* * * *
“Musketoon”: Re W. H. Cuming’s hard
words about the fox (B. 1/11/’l7). Mr. Knoxhill,
of Bareenong, Forbes (N.S.W.), has an altogether
different opinion. He says he would not kill a fox
under any consideration, for the damage they cause
lambs is much more than compensated for by the
number of young rabbits they put out of action.
* * * *
“Eloc”: Want to keep your horse quiet
when you’re sticking a set of bootees on? Tie his
ears together as tightly as you can.
* * * •
“Tariff”; Bunny has passed through some
phases since he was pampered in a hutch. His latest
prank was in the Ashford district (N.S.W.), where
the stock-inspector found him ringbarking gum
saplings. In places hundreds of acres of dense scrub
received such careful attention that not a single sau-
ling escaped. v
“Barcoo”; The most friendly of the
feathered tribes in Bananaland is the minah, some-
times called the soldier-bird. Our shearing-camp
galley-table on the Peak Downs is set out in the
open under a pitched tarpaulin, and the little
fellows seem to know instinctively when the banquet
is on. But they don’t worry about any food except
that contained in the jam, sugar or treacle tins.
All the emptied tins thrown on the rubbish-heap are
most carefully cleaned up. The fossickers own the
sweetest tooth in feathers. Kangaroo-shooters and
wallaby-hunters curse their inquisitiveness, as, at
the critical moment of stalking the game, one of
the .little pests generally lets out a shrill cry of
warning.
* *
* * *
Ojo : Just witnessed a ding-dong scrap
of one round, lasting half an hour, mulga rules.
The pugs were a centipede and a scorpion, both
heavy-weight class, and scaling about equal. The
ring consisted of a sheet of newspaper. The scor-
pion, which was a hot favorite, soon got an opening
and administered some heavy punishment, nearly
knocking his many-legged enemy through the ropes.
The ’pede appeared to be on the defensive only, but
it was not so. He was gradually twining his limbs
round those of the other scrapper. Once properly
fast, the wily centipede buried his tusks in the
solar plexus (which is the only soft part on the
scorps outside) and never let up till he had eaten
it clean out.
Gham”: Come and be introduced to the
fairy martin (Petrochelidon oriel) and admire his
beautifully-feathered coat of many colors. The
family generally builds on a river bank or the sides
of a rock or building, constructing a long bottle-
shaped nest of mud or clay, lined with grasses and
feathers. A Richmond (N.S.W.) church, situated
close to one of the Nepean’s billabongs, has two
sides covered with hundreds of nests, which were
built on a co-operative basis. Gangs of six or seven
did the mud-humping while another shift remained at
home to do the plastering. The egg yield is four
or five; they vary from white to plain or spotted
and blotched with red.
* * * *
“Evorgsoc” : Near Donnybrook (W.A.) I
helped champion axeman “Jumbo” Frazer to
overbalance a jarrah stick and splinter it into
transportable portions for the mill. “Kelly the
Mug,” with the assistance of two leaders, two
polers, and 16 in the body of the team, formed the
moving party. Mill issue, 11,800 ft. From the
waste a dinkum boarding-house was built on Billy
Hedges s railway job and proprietored by “High-
land Mary,” who is known to a lot of the old heads.
For further information ring up Hindenberg line ; or
will meet doubters personally, at entanglements,
dunng winter months. At home every day of the
week.
# # *
“H.V.E.”; I couldn’t understand the find-
ing of a large eel in the mud of a dried-up hole in a
watercourse, with a bundle of squirming eel-fry
beside it, till Bjorkman’s fascinating “Story of the
Eel illuminated my mind. The coloring of this one
was silver-grey, its snout sharp, and the eyes large
so that at first I mistook it for a silver eel—a marine
species. D G. Stead, then X. S. Wales Government
fishologist, to whom I posted a sample of the
eels, stated that the fry (then from 4in. to 9in. in
length) were from one to two years old, and un-
related to the big one. The watercourse, by the way,
cebouched into a salt-lake connecting with the sea
and above the spot where the big eel was found was
a aige dam, always containing brown eels. Bifirk-
™, n Say f, T f S t 0 the eel which is ready to milt or
spawn. Its snout grows narrow and peaked Its
into f' °l la, ' ge f lustrous - lts muddy color turns
sh f ; en Of sdvery-grey. These are the nuptial
g ments. If the eel is in a place which admits of
no communication with the sea when the “mvsteri-
obev and Tr C ° m - S t 0 Jt * 14 Will d 0 its utmost to
obey and failing, it will die.” It cannot reach
tions T maturity apart from the peculiar condi-
,P^re; Sa , l ) nity and temperature character-
ising its birthplace. My eel, wearing its nuptial
garments, had come from the large dL aforesaid
of tC r ProS '' eSS h3d beeJl barred the drying-up
o the watercourse which led to the sea, and it had
given up the ghost. The young eels, on the other
hand, were working their way upwards.
‘ Y.Z.” “Yalgun” in a recent Bulletin’
advertised the discovery of a Queensland blacl-
shed his ebon hide, and became all-same wh °
pfeller. The Bananaland turncoat is nothing „e\v
In Melbourne some years ago I saw an East Indian
who was white in parts but black enough in uatchw
to swear by. He used to parade his hide round the
newspaper offices, and eventually became a nine-davs’
wonder in the Waxworks. Having eventually put "off
the old cover and put on a new, too white to be
nice, he had a job in a book arcade. Then he sud
denly disappeared. What his fate was I cannot sav
but these eccentric skin-shedding performances are
too suggestive of leprosy to be lightly held.
* * * #
“Abidadama”: “O. Regan” (B. 20/9/17)
did not have his leg altogether pulled by the Eng-
lish naturalist who asserts that a Papuan spider
spins a web large and strong enough to be used as
a fishing net. Shortly after my arrivel in Papua I
read of a net similar to that described by “Regan,”
and, like him, I was sceptical; but after three
years I was successful in obtaining two—one of
which I still have—made by the natives of the far-
inland Mekeo district. They are made this wav:
A young green branch (up to an inch in diameter
at the thicker end) about sft. long and terminating
in a forked end is selected from a suitable tree or
vine. The two prongs of the fork are cut off about
2ft. from the parent stem and the ends tied together
by grass fibre. To keep the prongs well apart a
piece of wood Bin. or so long is inserted in the
centre. Thus is formed an egg-shaped oval about
18in. long by Bin. broad. This is now placed in
the sun until dry and rigidly set, when the centre
HE WOULD TAKE NO RISKS OF
CLEANLINESS.
FROWZY FERDINAND: “'Ere, afore I allows
yer ter shave me, is this 'ere one of yer
'ygienia saloons?"
stay is removed. Cannibal brother goes to a web
spun between trees, fastens an end of it to one of the
prongs, and then rapidly rotates his twig along the
whole web. This process is repeated until the oval
is thickly wrapped in cobweb and the net is com-
plete. That such a net can lift a 21b. fish from the
water is a very conservative estimate. A visiting
scientist went into raptures over my specimen, and
persuaded me to let him try what weight it would
carry. At a little over 61b. there was such a sag in
the net that I cried enough, though probably another
pound could have been added. The net is quite
unknown to the coastal natives, and is used only for
river work. It is also extremely rare, and the Port
Moresby museum of Papuan antiquities and curios
does not boast an example.
THE POOR, BEREAVED BUSHMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poor old swagman raised the boy
And set him on his knee; 7 '
It gave the grizzled bushman i ov
•The little lad to see. 7
He looked into the youngster’s eyes
He stroked his curly hair;
The mother saw the teardrops rise
She saw t_lie look of care. ’
Her heart was touched. ‘ ‘Poor man! ” thought she
He is alone, no doubt, Bnt «he,
And not in all the world has he
A soul to care about.”
She gave him bread, she gave him beer
And meat she gave him, too. ’
“Xow tell me,” said she, “why my dear
W ee boy so touches you.”
The man a tear wiped from his chin.
Said he: “Once from a cage
I lost a pup that would have bin
About this feller’s age!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


11l
i r «
<»»?
r
A
hHiil/li
DUNLOP
Rubber
goods
For
i
duwlop
RUBBER
CQODS
Mil
t
S >4
,‘WA w
QUALITY
S PRICE
'/Hi
w.
sf
A MALE |
omhy4
/
s\
r
>
r's
J
WS
w
fillip
a
DUNLOP GOODS
COMPRISE:—
DUNLOP CYCLE TYRES
OCEANIC CYCLE TYRES
MOTOR and MOTOR
CYCLE TYRES
SOLID MOTOR TYRES
TYRE SUNDRIES
DUNLOP BUGGY and
CAB TYRES
PERAMBULATOR TYRES
TRUCK & .TROLLY TYRES
BED CASTORS
CD
GARDEN HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
STEAM HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
AIR-DRILL HOSE
DELIVERY HOSE
POWER SPRAY HOSE
Etc., Etc.
CD
DUNLOP RUBBER HEELS
SOLES, Etc.
BOOT SOLUTION
KROMHYD BOOT
SOLEING
CD
ENGINEERS’ GOODS—
Driving Belting
Conveyor Belting
Sheet Rubber
Packing® Studs
Insertions Springs
Washers Tubikcs
Valves Cord
CD
MILKING MACHINE
REQUISITES
CD
RINGS AND BANDS
BUFFERS AND BLOCKS
Etc., Etc.
CD
WRINGER ROLLERS
MATS AND MATTING
HOT WATER BOTTLES
AIR BEDS 4 CUSHIONS
RUBBER GLOVES
PLUMBERS’ SUNDRIES
STATIONERS’ SUNDRIES
DENTAL RUBBER
II ATM AKERS’
REQUISITES
CD
SPORTING GOODS-
Football Bladderb
ennis Balls
acrosss Balls
Etc., Etc
CD
GUM BOOTS
ALWAYS ASK FOR
M
D
□
D
It’s your Guarantee of
Service and Satisfaction.
RUBBER CO* OF AUST.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, LAUNCESTON,
WELLINGTON. CHRISTCHURCH. AUCKLAND


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That maKes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taKen at the commencement of a Cold; but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remodies have failed to maKe any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on tHe CHEST,
WEAR LUNGS.
SV«Y :
mmi
1 Ml
A
I
“sr
~=>
w
&
m
\3
VN
InZ
M<
y
f
gg
i=3"
13.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney, N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
Public Trust Office of Maoriland.—
Established away back in 1873, this office
made the slow progress which is common
enough with trustee offices in their younger
days ; hut now, when with a big turnover it
can offer concessions which it couldn’t think
of in the old days, it adds every year to the
value of the estates in hand as much as the
total value amounted to at the end of the
first dozen years. As time has gone on and
experience has been gained, numerous buds
have been grafted on the old stock. Two of
most consequence, so far as the public is
concerned, relate to (1) a guaranteed in-
terest return on certain trust funds; (2)
the payment of bonuses on certain business.
A specified rate of interest is of course not
guaranteed on all funds administered by the
office —only on those for which the office
selects the investment. Any surplus earned
by the investment belongs to the office. But
for the office to hang on to it would be treat-
ing the estate and the beneficiaries far less
liberally than either the mutual or the co-
operative life-insurance offices treat their
policy-holders. Those insurance offices not
only guarantee a certain rate of interest for
very many years ahead, but in addition
divide up among the policy-holders either the
whole or a fixed percentage of the excess
earnings. A couple of years ago the Finance
Act acknowledged that the principle should
be applied to the guaranteed business of this
Trust Office, and the following became law:
Where the net profits of the Public Trust Office in
any year exceed the sum of £20,000, then the
Governor-in-Council may direct that the surplus
profits or such part thereof as he names shall be
credited pro rata as a bonus to each estate or account
(other than investment agencies) that received inter-
est from the common fund during that year and have
not been finally closed and distributed before the end
of that year.
For the year to March, 1916, bonuses total-
ling £22,908 were distributed, thereby in-
creasing by about 1 p.c. the rate of interest
credited to the estates—equal to a bonus of
2s. in the £—and the same bonus will be
available for the past year.
But even this does not err on the side of
liberality. Run back over a few years and
see: —•
Excess Loss apart
Interest from Excess
Profit. Earnings. Interest.
1914 .. £29,222 £46,337 £17,115
1915 .. 32,508 49,613 17,105
1916 .. 46,108 65,448 19,340
1917 .. 58,862 81,492 22,630
That's not good enough. There should not
be such a loss apart from these excess in-
terest earnings. It is very doubtful whether
there should be any loss at all. Nominally,
at any rate, the general business guarantees
the interest; wherefore it is a fair thing,
when there are excess earnings, for those
excess earnings to contribute to the general
reserves. That is to say, only a proportion
of the excess earnings should in any case be
divided among the people who are paid their
interest out of the common fund. But to
make the excess pay a large part of the
working exes, seems to be wholly v r rong in
principle. No doubt if it were not done it
would mean putting up some of the charges.
Very well, put them up. They are too low'
as it is: some people are only getting their
work done by sponging on others.
* * *
The County of Bourke Permanent
Building and Investment Society (Mel-
bourne) :—•
Busi- Net Pro-
ness fit on To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1906.. £10,291 £l2OO 10 p.c.= £9,752 £1739 £34,00-1907..
1907.. 10,922 1300 10 „ „ 9,752 24-0 3.,0--
1908.. 10,870 1500 10 „ „ 9,667 2< 03 39A
1909.. 10,702 2000 10 „ „ 9,636 3066 42,-91
1910.. 10,512 4000 10 „ „ 9,636 48-6 4r,6b.
1911.. 11,768 3000 10 „ „ 9,636 5132 62,-99
1912.. 13,297 3550 10 „ „ 9,636 -211 60,010
1913.. 13.425 1500 10 „ „ 9,868 50d7 60,0b<
Premiums on new shares .. 192 s
1914.. 15,006 1000 10 p.c.= 12,064 3942 -0,93-
1915.. 15,-370 750 10 „ „ 13,750 '28 <0 -3,0-
Transferred to Capital .. £20,000 ,
1916.. 15,620 95 10 p.c.= 14,819 896 49,1
1917.. 15,721 77 10 „ „ 14,916 882 50,080
This time 20 years ago the directors
beginning to think that matters were u
normal, and that the time had amv ®”.
write down capital. In the six years s , -
quent to the smash £140,000 of old deb
been paid off. and after revaluing the a««
that were left (including 534 f° .
houses) the directors came to the snip- 5 _
conclusion that there were assets to
sent 12s. for every £1 of the share c P '
So capital was written down and call
made to bring all the shares up to tul j 1* '
The work of selling the old properties c
tinned with excellent results, large su 1
being realised and put to reserves; -
money thus became available new
was taken. This shows the society s P 1
1900. 1910. 1915. I® l ®; £l49 306
Capital £98,150 £96,361 £ 125,000 £149,006
Deposits 6,211 21,275 40,265 38,3.0
Other lia- „ . Qnl 2,295
bilities 1,897 4,347 6,062 4,301
Foreclos- . all j 615
ures 66,536 17,837 1,602 , 229,985
Advances 49,339 157,273 249,65 a -44,
Other „ „ 7 - 10,650
assets 5,907 563 811 2,3- a .
Whether a 10 p.c. dividend can he
tained is, however, very doubttu . . age d
mistake to start off with it on the gn j a n
capital. And indeed, considering g|uire-
amount of outside money w hicn they
holders are called upon to gua 1 t g an lo
might very well be satisfied with - g naC ce
p.c. Their own capital and res dvane es.
all but £30,000 of the £230,000 of ad
As to those advances, The b Y L A even
judge that they were pretty, ‘ a ’steady
granted that there is going D , ‘ lia ps. a
slump in property values—with, l pro .
brief flare-up after peace , g move-
claimed. In the past three ye- hav e
ments in the borrowing depaitm
beeU New Loans. Repayments.
1915 .. £38,220 £62,263
1916 .. 49,799
1917 . . 37,4-9 'b- aß age-
It is pretty plain from thfc tjjt ca ution,
ment is making advances v most,
that the outstanding loans axe n igica llv
very well under the amounts
advanced.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Con”: At Brisbane Markets recently
apples sold up to 30s. a case ; average con-
tents, about 150. The top price in Sydney
the same day was 17s. a case. It is esti-
mated that the firm which had the monopoly
in apples that fine morning in Brisbane made
a profit of 15s. a case. It isn’t necessary to
go to England to find profiteering. We need
a few hangmen in Australia, too.
“Davey Street” : The Speck is starting out
after Germany’s potash business, and to help
in the good work an Act enabling the Lands
Department to lease “kelp orchards” has just
been passed by Parliament. The Potash Pro-
ducts Co., with a bank of £lO,OOO, has con-
ducted experiments for the past two years at
its Pelican Island headquarters off the South
Coast. Analyses show that the kelp around
there contains 37 p.c. of potassium chloride,
which breaks the world’s record (made by
California) by 10 p.c. The weed grows on
the sea bottom to a depth of 100 ft. tin
reaching the surface it extends branches toi
60ft. The supply is vast: the plant grows
quickly and more profusely after cutting,
each bed being cropped four times a y^j 11 ’-
The richest weed is found in the colder
currents borne in from the Antarctic
D’Entrecasteaux Channel and Storm Ba>
are best. So far the vegetable is cut by
hand, but the construction of a huge sea-
going mowing-machine is in progress. Ibis
is equipped at the bow-end with recipiocat
ing knives that work on the principle of the
blades of a mowing-machine, and cut the
branches 3ft. to 6ft. below the water sui -
face. The streamers are then automatically
netted into the punt, where they are cut into
small pieces by a large “cliaffcutter. lhe
co.’s boat can load 100 tons and make two
trips daily. After landing, the process
adopted is to distil the dry kelp into a
retort constructed on the principle ot the
by-product coke-oven. During the distilla-
tion the nitrogen is given off and recovered
in the form of ammonia. lodine is another
by-product recovered, and at present prices
would pay. it is believed, for the whole cost
of labor. Potash has increased from ilo to
£OO per ton since the outbreak of war, but
this co. expects to bring that back to £2O.
“Backstay” : The British Government has
decided that in the event of a vessel being
lost through enemy action, the crew shall be
entitled to a month’s pay or to their wages
until their return to the UK., whichever is
the greater. It hasn’t been yet made clear
to us here in Australia whether the Govern-
ment or the shipown r is to shell out, but, it
I know him, it won’t be the latter if he can
help it. The new rule isn’t so very generous,
but it’s a move, long overdue, in the right
direction. In peace time the liability of
owners ceases on shipwreck. I can still
hear the ringing cheers of the crews of the
two vessels’ that were wrecked some time
ago on Elizabeth Reef, out Noumea way.
When they were rescued they had lost all
their kit, but on reaching Sydney they were
paid in full —up to the dap of hutting the
reef. There wasn't a penny coming to them
for the time they were castaway, or which
they spent in reaching civilisation!
“Derrick”: A New York Co. has pur-
chased eight interned Austrian steamships
for 12 million dollars, nearly £47 a ton
register. In the days when the P. and O.
pursued its business unmolested it put its
fleet’s value down in the balance-sheet at
£9 a ton. Enormous profits can be expected
from shipping in the future. In fact, it’s
not far wrong to say that wdien peace is
declared bottoms will for a while be more
valuable even than they are now.
The old Freetrade lie that Australia
couldn’t do it begins to look an awful wreck.
This week’s discovery is a factory in Adel-
aide which is turning out electric fans by the
hundred, not only for home use but for stir-
ring up the hot air of the Eastern States
The Bulletin cheerfully passes on tl e
makers’ name —Newton McLaren Ltd.
* *• *
“A JB ” • The Government Produce
Depot, at Port Adelaide, lately slaughtered a
cow that registered 12341 b. chilled weight.
This would be about 12701 b. hot weight.
Prior to enlistment she had been starring at
country shows and taking numerous prizes
for her fat. “Betsy”—l think that was her
name —belonged to the Holstein Shorthorn
sect. , *
* * *
“Eloc”: Melba VII. wouldn’t be the cham-
pion butter-maker of Australia (B. 8/11/ 17)
if the calculations were made on the same
plan throughout the Commonwealth. The
N. S. Wales Agricultural Departments sys-
tem of arriving at results differs from that
of any" other country in the world. It
credits more over-run as between butter-fat
and commercial butter. On the basis of the
reckoning filopted by the Ma State, Mai la,
a red poll cow, owned by the Vic. Govern-
ment and running at the Werribee State
Farm, would make IOTGRb.. of commercial
butter. Melba’s lot was 102121 b.
* * *
“Petifi” : Some years back Maoriland had
a useful little sideline in the shape of a
shark-fishery. The factory, in Hauraki Gulf,
is still extant, but has gone out of business,
not because there wasn't enough demand for
its output, but because it couldn’t get suffici-
ent raw material. There was plenty of it in
the bay, but seemingly local anglers had
more profitable fish to catch than sharks.
Anvhow, they didn’t catch enough to keep
the' factory running. Now comes ex-Sydney
journalist T. R. Roydhouse—at present
living in those parts—with the suggestion
that Australia might take a hint from Maori-
land’s failure, and establish a shark utilisa-
tion industry for the benefit of Hayseed.
The Hauraki Gulf shark belongs mainly to
the “school” brand. Three “schoolies” will
produce one gallon of oil (obtained from the
liver only), but a 10ft. man-eater will pan
off 10 gallons, and a 20-footer is mostly good
for a barrel. The oil makes a good softener
and preserver of leather, etc., a. serviceable
lubricant for machinery, and a liniment and
animal medicine. But, aboA 7 e all, it is a
great calf fattener. What is left, dried, con-
tains 13 per cent, of nitrogen, as compared
with 5 per cent, in bonedust; and in addi-
tion each 501 b. supplies 101 b. of phosphate,
so as a fertiliser the sea-lawyer has numer-
ous points about him. Finally, China will
take all the fins and tail-flukes it can get as
food, so the only thing wasted is the smell;
and politicians' may yet buy that as a
perfume.
* * * *
From Beatrice Grimshaw about life (and
especially tucker) in New Guinea:
A brief answer, but sufficient, to “Momokani,” who
speaks of me by name.
European vegetables are grown in Papua by prac-
tically every planter, and most other people. One
could give 60 names as easily as six—most successful
growers. As regards my own place on Sariba (which
“Momokani” can have had small opportunity of
seeing), I grew a number of vegetables there before
deciding to leave for a larger place. Then of course
I gave up sowing.
All supplies of seed have been shockingly bad here
during the last year or more, which fact has much
diminished the output of vegetables—this I admit.
But it is not the fault of the country.
Regarding game, does the average Australian find
scrub-turkev, young fat pigeon and young pig
tough? They are the same here as in Australia.
As regards the country generally, “Momokani”
can’t be answered. One cannot argue with the dis-
gruntled type that sees everything through the
glass of personal ill-luck (?). Papua, Australia and
every new country suffer from this type. It is by
a long way easier to rank with the destructive than
to stand with the constructive. Anyone can find
fault with anything. I can tell a lot of things that
you can’t do with Papua, and so can any native kid.
But it’s taking me all my time to write a bit of
affirmative across her unbroken forests. And I know
which is best worth doing.
* * > * *
“Haka”: The other day Maoriland said
farewell to the Milton potteries, established
50 years ago by an enterprising man named
White. For a considerable time he em-
ployed some 00 hands; but unfortunately
the clay required for thb better class of goods
ran out, and as White was not satisfied with
producing an inferior article he handed the
concern to the employees. Subsequently the
enterprise was taken over by Bishop Nevill,
and after a few more changes, owing prin-
cipally to lack of skilled artisans, the works
were closed down. Some three years ago a
Christchurch syndicate got the kilns going
again, but, failing, the machinery was taken
to Christchurch; the four kilns which were
notable landmarks were toppled over, and
the scene of a once-flourishing industry is
desolate.
* * * *
“The Wanderer” ; Lutherie Bay, Manning
River (N.S.W.), is the scene of a repatria-
tion experiment. A returned soldier has
been settled there on an oyster lease speci-
ally set apart for the purpose. The principal
difficulty is that the oyster cocky must have
something to keep him going during the
four years the riotous fish are growing. As
for a home, the district folk are putting in
Saturdays and Sundays making that for this
pioneer.
“Moses” : There are lots of ways of bring-
ing custom to a pub besides putting perox-
ided Phyllis behind the bar. In the old days
of the bank-smashes W. W. Aitken was
manager of Aarons’s Exchange in Sydney—-
the pub where the wool men congregate.
Banknotes were under a cloud at the time,
and, not being legal tender, were turned
down by some traders. But Aitken, when a
customer asked if he would take a note of
a well-known bank, replied that he was will-
ing, and gave a sovereign and threepence in
change. He offered to take any number at
the price. Of course heads started to wag,
and somehow or other the late “Tin” Kelly,
Willie’s father, was suspected of some mys-
terious coup, with the result that very few
notes were tendered. But there was no end
of discussion, generally in the bar. Old
manager Aitken, long retired from the busi-
ness, is asked to this day what was at the
back of it all; but his only reply still is “It
can’t be told.” But the pub takings at the
time told very well.
BALLAD OF HIS MISTRESS, SOME FOOD AND
LOST OPPORTUNITIES.
[For The Bulletin.]
Belinda is my soul’s delight,
My life’s sweet substance and its sum.
Each day she bursts upon my sight
Like some fair Grecian deity.
A winsome little waitress she
At Blither’s food emporium.
To daily worship at her shrine
I forego cigarettes and beer,
For Blither’s lunch is one-and-nine;
But she’s my compensating bliss.
Yet when I strive to tell her this
She murmurs coyly, “Thick or clear?”
■To catch her in a melting mood
Oh, times innumerable I’ve tried.
Dash everything suggesting food !
For when I’d fain remark her eyes
She looks at me with faint surprise
And softly mutters, “Boiled or fried?”
The wine of unrequited loves
I’ve drunk unto the bitter lees
For maids who’ve fancied other coves.
But, ah, she’s different from all.
Though when her liquid accents fall
She murmurs (dash it!), “Sweets or cheese!”
Inly I cherish futile dreams
With which I strive to stifle grief—•
Dryads at play ; Pan-haunted streams ;
Belinda sporting with a faun ;
And I. .. .but dreams are shoved in pawn:
She yells, “I’m waiting oh corned-beef!”
L’envoi.
When editorial hearts some time
Are touched —when fame is mine, in brief—
I’ll take her to some far-off clime
Where food is issued once a week.
For how can any lover speak
Whose mistress waits upon corned-beef!
N.S.W.
THE IMMATURE MALE.


i
*«4
*
mm
m
Si
~\
PH^s
A Factory set in
the Sunshine.
THE production of WHITE LEAD is an industry new to
Australia. Its inception has been triumphantly accomplished
at the vast riverside factory built by the House of Berger at
Rhodes, near Sydney. The location extends over 111 acres.
Here is a sun-lighted factory—a healthful
hygienic place typical of power and prestige.
Here is industry unleashed—here is enterprise
unlimited. Here is an Australian Factory
set in the light of traditional British fame,
world-honored during the last 157 years.
In BERGER’S WHITE LEAD the practical
painter will find an absolutely pure white pro-
duct that mixes readily and thoroughly with
oil. In fineness, whiteness and purity it is
equal, if not superior, to imported white lead.
This has been proven by actual TESTS.
Deliveries have gone out throughout the
Commonwealth. All distributors have supplies.
Berger’s Australian Stack-made White Lead is
packed in cwt., 561 b., and 281 b., containers.
Painters ! Let your patriotism and practical
experience lead you to use
BERGER’S WHITE LEAD
AUSTRALIAN STACK-MADE —WARRANTED GENUINE.
SOUVENIR ART BOOKLET
SENT ON REQUEST.
LEWIS BERGER &
SONS (Aust.) LTD.
Offices: 16 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
Works: RHODES, near SYDNEY.


A. S.iunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, loet. Gold, £2/5/-
A. Saunders’ 9et.
Gold Battalion
Color Ring, any
battalion colors
supplied, 25/-
Lady’s si/e, 21/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, ISct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Wedding
Kings:
9ct., 20/-
15ct., £2.
18ct., £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Diamond
Half-hoop Ring,
18et. Gold, £5.
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Garnet Set Pendant,
9ct. Gold, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine -or Garnet
Set Brooch, 9et. Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Safety
Tie Pin, 3/6,
4/6, 5/6.
15ct., 7/6,
8/6, 10/6,
according to
size.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Sleeve Links, 20 /-
Heavier, 25/*, 30/-
A. Saunders Pearl and
Aquamarine or Garnet
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Match-
Box, nicely chased, £3.
Heavier, £3/10/-. Plain
design same prices.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Wishbone Pendant, set
with Amethyst or
Garnet, 8/6.
ALL
ORDERS
POST
FREE
Xmas Jewellery
Designs.
r*
/ s s
$ If
«c
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £7/10/-, Others £3/10/-,
£4, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO. All Guaranteed.
e
ALL ORDERS
PROMPTLY
ATTENDED
TO AND
POSTED
FREE.
WRITE FOR
OUR ILLUS-
TRATED
CATALOGUE.
IT’S POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Necklace, set with Pearls and
Amethysts, Tourmalines or Aquamarines, £3,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Plain Half-round Bracelet, Strong
Snap and Safety Chain, £2. Narrower, 25/-, 30/-.
Wider, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5.
15ct. Gold, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Send for Illustrated Catalogue it’s Free.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George St.
(Opp. Railway
Station),
Sydney.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
20/-
Lady’s, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond
Brooch, 15ct., Gold, £5,
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Diamond
Cross-over Ring,
ISct. Gold, £lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Lady's 9 c t. Gold
Tablet Ring,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine, or Ame-
thyst Set Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Sleeve Links, daintily
engraved, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Aquamarine Oval Brooch
15ct. Gold, £2/107-
Pearls and Diamonds,
£4/10/-
u
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Safety
Tie Pin, 3/6,
4/6, 5/6.
Isct., 7/6,
8/6, 10/6,
according to
size.
ALL
ORDERS
POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Circle
Brooch, set with fine
White Pearls, 9ct.
Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Cross, set with Pearls and
Red or. Blue Stones, 15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Plain or Engraved Sover-
eign Purse, £2. Heavier,
£2/10/, £3. 15ct. Gold,
£3/15/-. Gold-filled,
20/-. Silver, 7/6.
itj
I
S 3
1 I
tins
hi
m
iiuftyijj 1
f*payfflo!3iiW!
fMnaoPQM
11
[ESE
i 11
(HEBi
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manages.
ON ALL OCCASIONS
when you may require a specially strong antiseptic Soap—for
instance, to protect yourself against mosquitoes and other insects,
or to antiseptically cleanse their bites —use
CALVERT’S
20% Carbolic Soap.
Use a light lather only, that is all you need with a Soap like this,
which contains such a large proportion of Carbolic.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers . Each tablet in metal box .
Makers: F. C. CALVERT & CO., —— Manchester, England.
BOOKS AT AUSTRALIA’S BIG BOOK STORE.
I Will Get You Any Book You Require.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COM MON WEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS—LOVE, BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc.,
with full directions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to Win at Cards.
1/3. Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering. Brazing, Gasfitting, &c., 1/6
posted. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, 1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-,
posted 1/3. Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-. Piano Tuning
and Repairing. 1/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules
for all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River, 4/-.
Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic, 1/3. Every INI an
His Own Carpenter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, 1/-.
The Doctor (Cures for all Diseases), 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches & Toasts, Public Speaking Made. Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly
Gang of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, l/ 1 ; posted, 1/2. Electricity
Made Simple (new’), 5/-. Self-Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted Cabinetmakers’ Handybook. 1/6. Complete Book-keep-
ing, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illustrated. 1/1. Parlor Magic. 1/-posted. How’McDou-
gall Topped the Score. & Other Verses. 1/3. French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan-
nan’s Engine-Driver’s Guide. 5/6 posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each posted.
Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted. The Woman of Fire, 2/-. Send a trial order NOW.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save your cash. 25 Years.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1/6 posted. New Tricks
with Cakds, 1/3. Sappho, genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2/6. Aristotle. 3/6.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry, 1/5. Glide
to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret History Court of England, 1/6 posted. Lovers
Letter Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry Ex-
posed. Key to all Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
lud. posted. Tokology", 7/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d., 2/-. How to Read
Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's
Handbook, 1/2 posted. Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted. Frlits
of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervous-
ness and Its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary. 1700
pages, 1000 lllus., leather bound, my price, 16/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas.').
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3. Moore s
LiNn-ERSAL Assistant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth bound. H/6
posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,. 1/- posted. 200 Old-Time Songs (words
music complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine, posted 9d.
" rite for catalogue to-day.
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this cdvt,
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the AsKing.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONET ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANT
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. _
SIR ROBERT BEAR, THE BIG BOOK STORE,
67 § 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>.


ABBEY
SHOES!
It is not alone distinctive appear-
ance —nor serviceability—nor com-
fort—but a combination of all these
essentials that has earned for
Abbey Shoes their great and ever-
increasing popularity.
Being made in half- and full-sizes,
and in narrow, medium and wide
fittings, you are assured “made-to-
order” satisfaction.
We illustrate a Special Golf Shoe,
in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 37/6
Light Soles, 35/-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Old-looking Young Women.
Too many women and girls look old
before their time. Faces are pale and
drawn; wrinkles appear, and the eyes lack
lustre. There are headaches, backaches
and a generally wretched feeling. In most
of these cases the condition of the blood is
to blame. From one cause or another it
has become thin and watery, and it is a fact
that anaemia, more than any other cause,
gives women that prematurely aged appear-
ance.
It is important that the blood supply be
replenished—important not only on the
score of good looks, but to restore robust
health, which is of greater moment. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People actu-
ually make new blood and restore the sys-
tem shattered by overwork and worry. They
impart the glow of health to pale faces, and
make tired, weary women feel bright and
happy. There is no need for any woman or
girl to feel ill or look ill. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills will help them to get the best
out of life. Your own dealer can supply
you with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
A valuable little book on “Building Up
the Blood” will be sent free to any address
on application to the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Box 594, G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
/-t W£Ojr j
/ r ossard
CORNETS
ThqyLuce In front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
CAPILLARINE
if
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
C'apillarine has stood the test of years as a
genuine moustache-producer, and now that
the military have popularised the moustache
once more, its efficacy is being daily experi-
enced by hundreds of users.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
m
*
V
$
This ts the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Llttte Collins St., Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. It. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H, W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,660,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write fcr prospectus and full information without delay.
it
•■of
j
Leslie
Salt Licks
are always clean and whole-
some. They will keep your
horses, cows, stud stock and
other animals in first-class con-
dition, strong, good-tempered and thoroughly healthy.
Free from impurities of any kind.
Obtainable at all Stores, Saddlers, Blacksmiths and Produce Merchants.
51b. Block, 2|- 22|6 per case—l dozen.
«
A breath of Blighty”
\
y
a
K-:
A
<&r
i£>
DRIVER : “ ’Ere, you blighter, you’re lettin’ my tyre down ! ”
THE RECUMBENT ONE : "Doctor’s orders, matey! The M.O. said I was pinin’ for me native
air, an’ w’en I spotted these ’ere Avons I reckoned they prob’ly ’adn’t bin pumped up since they
left ’ome —So ' ’ere goes for a breath of Blighty, Alf,’ I sez ! ”
AN A.S.C. driver, campaigning in Egypt (driving the G.O.C. the
—th Division), writes to Mr. H. E. Clark, of Highgate, as
follows: —“ You will be interested to know that I am running Avon
Tyres all round on my big ‘ Vauxhall.’ I have got the same Avons
on as I had when the car was at Ferant Camp, Salisbury. I have
never had a puncture, or even had to pump up one of the covers
since I took the car over last October.”
N.5.W. Agents: Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victorian Agents : H. C. Pannifex, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents : The Queensland flotor Agency, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior. Jo h
Barr and K. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, !s>o-
nev, take the responsibility.]
Insist on your Theatre Manager showing
Paramount —they’re made for you, remember!
/m
f
I
i
is**
Pictures are the Pictures made for you and yours
They are known throughout the world for their strength and action—the boiled-down essence of the greatest masterpieces of the
age.
Paramount Artists
possess that quality
and indefinable grace
and finesse which
place them beyond the
ordinary. Their inter-
pretations ring true—
they convince whilst
they entertain and
please. £ «•*
POLITICAL
POINTS
Forget Hughes; remember Billjim.
The vote on December 20 is not to decide
upon Conscription. Conscription is the law
of Australia, put on the statute-book by
the Labor party. The vote on December 20
is merely to decide, if volunteering does not
provide enough reinforcements for Billjim,
whether Billjim shall go without, or whether
the single men who would be compelled to
light in Australia shall also be compelled to
right to keep the enemy from coming to
Australia. Those who think it better that
they should come to Australia as they came
to Belgium will vote “No.”
THE INDEX.
VON STCHINK: “Dey tos der Ausdralian
droops. I vos dell—dey vos hold der
shkool ob der two-up mid der pennies
up-toss in der air."
The first visible result of the work of the
commission of business men which has been
overhauling tiie Defence Department is the
appointment of Brig.-Gen. Ramaciotti to a
new office, which Pearce describes as “the
eyes and ears of the Minister.” It sounds
like a confession that for three years we
have had a blind and deaf man in charge
of the Defence Department; and there have
been times when this paper also suspected
that he didn’t have much of a sense of
smell.
Whatever happens, Joe Cook and Arthur
Rae have been a tremendous success. When
the riot started Rae was appointed publicity
manager for No-Conscription in N. S. Wales,
and Cook seems to have been put aside to
watch him. Consequently whenever Rae
issues a proclamation, Cook
takes it to pieces, and when
Cook makes an observation
Rae examines it. By last
week they had reached the
stage of making hourly criti-
cisms of one another. No
matter what might be hap-
pening in Russia or Italy or
Palestine or in the vicinity of
Ilindenburg’s line the Cook-
Rae conflict raged on in the
first and latest editions. When
The Bulletin last sampled
the disturbance Rae was de-
claring that “none of the
people in Europe engaged in
the war has been consulted in
regard to Conscription.” Per-
haps they weren’t. At any
rate, the only people who had
thrown up Conscription were
the Belgians; and if the
French had done the same
thing Arthur Rae wouldn’t
now be making remarks to the
world. The certain thing is
that as a means of reinforcing
the Australian army, Rae’s
point, which he says stands
like a rock, is about as useful
as a lump of dough.
R. W. Shelford, once cura-
tor of the Museum at Sara-
wak, Borneo, says that both
the Macaque monkeys and the
palm-civits are very fond of
coffee-berries, but can’t digest
more than the soft pulp that
surrounds the hard kernel.
Consequently the kernels pass
out whole and are carefully
collected. As the animals
pick out the ripest and best
berries, the specimens “cleaned” by this
labor-saving device fetch an unusually good
price in the market. (P.S. —You’il buy
North Queensland coffee in future? No, you
won’t. You might have been able to if you
hadn’t been fool enough to vote for Free-
traders and tariff-sinkei’s hitherto.)
One of the alleged reasons advanced for
voting- “No” is that in the long ago Hughes
said :—•
I will be no party to sending- men out of the
country to fight for it, as if the time came when
compulsion had to be employed for such a purpose
our enemies would have won.
What does it matter what Hughes said?
Does anyone believe that an Australian divi-
sion should go into action below strength
because Hughes said a silly thing?
There come loud roars that it is the first
duty of Australia to “send food to the
Allies.” You can judge the sincerity of those
roars by noting that they come from the
very people who the other day tied up naval
transports, hospital ships and cargo tramps.
Not only w r as the Labor party responsible
for the Conscription law in Australia, but in
England a Labor member (Wm. Thorne) in-
troduced the first modern Universal Service
Bill, and the Social Democratic Federation
and Justice, the Socialist organ, supported
it enthusiastically. It was defeated by capi-
talist Liberal and Tory representatives. Now,
as then, voluntaryism means individualism.
And that means freedom of contract. It
would have been interesting to have heard
Arthur Rae carrying on a press campaign in
defence of freedom of contract 25 years ago.
Unification got a lift in Queensland last
week when the Prime Minister and Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth commanded a
plain, ordinary policeman to arrest a man,
and the plain, ordinary policeman told him.
in effect, that the Prime Minister and
Attorney-General of Australia hadn’t anv
more direct authority over him than the
unknown citizen who was leaning up against
the next post. The Commonwealth Parlia-
ment passes dozens of laws every year, and
(while Hughes is in office) the Commonwealth
Government makes about 170.000 regula-
tions, most of them penal; and it hasn’t got
so much as one single, humble John Hop
whom it can sack if he doesn’t administer
one or the whole lot as the Trime or any
other Commonwealth Minister thinks they
should be administered.
“And may God save Australia and pre-
serve us our freedom,” concludes the mani-
festo of the Victorian Branch of the Re-
turned Soldiers’ No-Conscription League of
Australia. It would be more in line with
the Anti-Conscriptionist argument to put it:
‘ Preserve us our freedom—and God helti
Australia !”
Ex-Senator Rae, whom the Antis
appointed to barrack for them through the
press, gave the job best one day recently,
and announced: —
(1) If you vote No you vote against reinforce-
ments being sent to your own kith and kin in the
trenches.
(2) If you vote Yes you will not vote to com-
pulsorily send any but a comparatively few single
men, all others being exempted ; and even these single
men are exempted if they can show that they are
doing work of national importance.
Rae insisted that in the circumstances
“Yes” wasn’t worth fighting for. And there-
THE WRONG PLACE FOR IT.
BILL: “Come on, you're always talkin’ about
'ow you learned French at school. Say
something to this poor old bloke to cheer
’im up."
JIM: “I can’t remember anything ’ cept—er
‘shut the door.’”
fore, also, of course, not worth fighting
against. Yet, judging by the noise Rae’s
party is making, you’d think the world was
going to cave in if the thing that isn’t worth
troubling about was carried.
The Vic. candidate had got on to the war,
and was dealing with its cost in thousands
of millions, when a vehement workman
cried: “Yes, and w r e pay it!”
The other toil-worn citizens
took up the cry. “Yes, we pay !”
The candidate, his hands on his
hips, beamed on them till silence
fell again. “Well, if you pay,
my dear fellows,” he said, “I
hope you don’t forget to make
the deduction from your income
taxes!”
Considering the number of
waverers who feel inclined to do
the common-sense and patriotic
thing and vote Yes, in spite of
their objection to the Dominant
Personality, a prpdent cam-
paign management would try to
keep William as much out of
the business as possible. Yet
one of the most widely-circular-
ised “Yes” pamphlets in Vic-
toria, broadcasted from Buckra-
banyule to Boomanoomanah,
bears on its cover a large
picture of the Prime Minister, wearing the
solemnly-sour look which has brought him
so many bouquets of fragrant language from
the proletariat.
Brother Bowser, leader of the Economv
Liberals, seems to approach the job of suc-
ceeding Peacock as Premier of Vic. with
tne impetuosity of a curate preparing to do
nis worst on the croquet lawn. When last
heard from Peacock was contemplating the
proceedings with a sardonic grin and casu-
ally inquiring whether in the whole course
ot human history a crisis had ever been
satisfactorily grappled with by anybodv
named Bowser. The Age is uncertain on
the point, but hopes for the best and an
historical precedent.
Conscription is at most times an imper-
sonal matter: a referendum on that ques-
tion would be a vote to decide whether the
people approve of all hands being called
on to serve their country in war. But the
vote on December 20 isn’t on an
matter. There are 300 000 «f person al
and brothers on the other sido ° Ur J
question is whether we shall and tl >e
whether when Bill «*«»,'
Jim another mate, or, as an alt^A- [ sen(l
him to do the Work of two— until hn tIVe ’ tell
.... as well. It isn’t » m Mh,,™!" 1 * 5
whether we believe in Conseriwi ***
whether we believe in giving a fit?a , as
our own sons and brothers at the Front l °
The Vic. Economy party stuck •
when it had its chance to distributed a* 1 !
of portfolios. Of the 18 members of th
party who voted against Peacockery on S*
Bowser amendment last July, six i . the
jobs—-Bowser (boss), McPher on f 6
urer), Downward (Mines, Forests 3 T
feetious Diseases), Oman (AgricS,, l ?'
Angus and Carlisle (honoraries) T 1 i 77
two M's.L.A. to reach office are retard/
soldier Major Matt Baird (Education, '
Peacockite who joined with the July a
tionaries; and the unavoidable' \vZH'
(Attorney-General), who went to the 2
clamoring for Peacock’s wishbone Of hT
remaining 12 Economists three are o t t
Parliament —Farrer and Iveast fnuXJv
and McCutcheon (went). Alfred Bifi
probably missed a portfolio because he u
already had a fair whack at office- 1!)
Norman Bayles because he didn't need it
There wasn’t room for old hands Robertson'
and Toutcher, from whom little has hZ
heard lately; while McDonald beam
Beardmore and Malcolm McKenzie are all
new men. or newish. Liquor-trade Farthine
the remaining Economist, is now see to the
Cabinet—a billet which looks like a son to
Cerbeerus. The four Leg. Councillors to
share the spoil are Frank Clarke (Lands)
stockbroker John McWhae < Works)'
Kendell and Richardson (honoraries). \]j
have rural associations, though they are
themselves mostly to be found within'sound
of tram-bells.
N. S. Wales Auditor-General's short his-
tory of the State’s industrial undertakings
for the past year:—
Expenditure £1,467.931
Earnings 1,273,491
Nine undertakings—including quarries, a
bakery, pipe-making works and brickworks
- —each show a profit, the aggregate bein"
£33,314, though if a seller can't show a
profit when he is also the buyer, he ought
to consult an agent whose job it is to fake
businesses for sale. Half a dozen other
concerns, including a timber yard and the
trawlers, each disclose a loss, the total run-
ning to £33.410. The accumulated profits
amount to £113,599; but as there are also
accumulated losses of £118.143 Go Slow is
an easy winner. It is on the Yanko irriga-
tion scheme, in which Cohen has been per-
suaded to invest nearly four millions, that
the State’s heaviest loss was made, the debit
on the year being £194.338. This hungry
white elephant seems to be getting more
ravenous from year to year. Something
SPLENDOR.
“Mother , I want to be a Boy Scout!"
“Oh, why, dear?"
“They've got such a lovely uniform,
mother!"
“Have they, dear?"
“Yes; a dinty ’at and — er — er —a bottie
knife !”
close to chaos prevails at the settlement,
and the accounts are a long way from being
satisfactory. The loan account, for in-
stance. is still being inflated by charges for
expenditure which is not visibly adding to
the revenue.
CONGRATULATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am proud and thankful that Germany’s and her
Allies’ arms have been successful on almost every
occasion everywhere.”- —Von Ilertling.
Let us congratulate ourselves and try to smile.
Let us assure ourselves that victory waits
Upon our tortured legions, mile on mile,
Who hold a thousand badly-battered gates.
Though every gate may open to Berlin,
Let us assure ourselves that we must win.
Right to the fringe of Paris once we rushed
Smashing the slender force that barred our way.
Loud were our vaunts. Our hearts, with slaughter
flushed,
Swelled to the splendid triumph of a day.
Our subsequent retreat, as all men know,
Was no advantage to our ancient foe.
In the long lines of trenches year on year
We have been pent and hammered without pause.
Yet is our own advantage very clear ;
In each defeat we only ran because
There was a cheerful quiet to be won
By keeping far from French or British gun.
Turkey has had two hidings in the east —
Hidings of large advantage in their way.
They should not worry Germans in the least ;
In fact, such things should make our spirits gay.
For larger aid the Ottoman can lend
When he has naught remaining to defend.
Russia is out. At least on that we rest,
Though those confounded Cossacks are not killed ;
And ’mid the revolution’s yell and jest
Lives the large hate that once their valor thrilled.
Still, we can pause and take a little breath,
And hope that madness is akin to death.
Cur numerous defeats, our weakening blow,
Our hunger and the futile submarine
Should be a warning to the gathering foe
That not by might nor power our splendid spleen
Shall weaken or the Teuton glory fall—
We are not licked until they hang us all!
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Four New Australian Novels.
ONE SHILLING EACH l|l posted.
“THE WHITE CHAMPION.”
By DON DELANEY.
A splendid sporting story, telling how
Australia found a white hope.
“SILVER STAR.”
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
An exc llent story of early mining
days on the Barrier.
“THE OLD HOMESTEAD.”
By STEELE RUDD.
Another fine selection story by the
famous author. Full of sparkling humor.
“THE SELECTOR OIRL.”
By BP ft A REYNOLDS.
A most entertaining novel of the Bush.
These are only four of over One Hundred Australian
Shilling Novels in the “Bookstall” Series.
On Sale at all Bookstalls and Booksellers.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
Have You Read?
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.” By NORMAN LINDSAY.
Excellent humor from the pen of Australia’s greatest black-and-white artist.
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE.” By M FORREST.
A fascinating story by one of Australia’s best-known writers.
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE.” By ROY BRIDGES.
A fine Australian historical novel.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.” By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
A first-class story by Australia’s most-popular sporting novelist.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
0
m)
rr
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N. 2. 3/-)
Some of the Greatest Regal Hits
at 2/6 each.
6000
6272
6439
6440
6643
6718
6745
6795
6832
6847
6869
6895
7249
7286
7297
7312
7353
7366
f When Father Papered the Parlour
(Don’t Go Out With Him To-night
( Terry, My Blue-eyed Irish Boy
( Where the River Shannon Flows
\ Will the Roses Bloom in Heaven?
( I’ll Change the Shadows to Sunshine
S 1’eg o’ My Heart
( You Have Always Been the Same Old Pal
J Wait Till I’m as Old as Father
( Where Does Daddy Go When He Goes Out
( Fast Night Was the End of the World
( I’m on My Way to Mandalay (Duet)
\ The Sunshine of Your Smile
(The Woman Thou Gavest Me
( Boys in Khaki, Boys in Blue
(Your King and Country Need You .........
S The Sunshine of Your Smile
(Wonderful Rose of Eove
( I Want to Go Back to Michigan
(Beautiful Baby Doll
i Australia Will Be There
( When the War is Over, Maggie
( You Planted a Rose in the Garden of Eove
( In the Heart of the City
f There’s a Eong, Eong Trail (Duet)
( Just a Plain Silver Eocket
f Australia Will Be There
(Australia Will Be There March
S Are You from Dixie (Duet)
( When Paderewski Plays
| If You Were the Only Girl in the World .. .
( Another Eittle Drink
f Eove’s Garden of Roses
( My Sweetheart When a Boy ” j'
) I’ll Change the Thorns to Roses
(The Eongest Way Round
Billy Williams.
Billy Williams.
William Thomas, tenor.
William Thomas, tenor.
Irving Gillette, tenor.
Irving Gillette, tenor.
Irving Gillette, tenor.
Irving Gillette, tenor.
Billy Williams.
Billy Williams.
Irving Gillette, tenor.
Campbell & Gillette.
John Adams, tenor.
John Adams, tenor.
Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
.. Harrison Latimer, baritone.
Julie Dolaro, soprano.
Julie Dolaro, soprano.
F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
.. Harrison Latimer, baritone.
.. Harrison Latimer, baritone.
• / Irving Gillette, tenor.
• Irving Gillette, tenor.
Stewart & Burt.
.... Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
Kirkby & Ramsey.
Kirkby & Ramsey.
Lucy Grey & S. Kirkby.
Edgar Trevor & Cecil Cooper.
Eric Randolph, tenor.
Eric Randolph, tenor.
. Will Oakland, counter-tenor.
. Will Oakland, counter-tenor.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Plaee
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Ptv
Utd., 173 William Street, Melbourne. J ”
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth. Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
V; Ba « f Hunter> Ltd ’ Wakefield & Alien Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—W'ebley Sons & Gofton, Ltd. street.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
WORMS.
ONE NINE INCHES LONG AND ANOTHER FOUR
INCHES PASSED BY CHILD AFTER TAKING
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS.
Mrs. A. E. Bade, of 203 McKillop Street,
East Geelong, Vic., writes:—“I have great
pleasure in writing to you to let you know
the satisfactory results I had in using your
‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets for my young son,
aged 14 years. He had been ailing for some
time and complained of pain in the spine and
a very sore stomach, and often in the night
would start vomiting without any warning
whatever. He also had several fainting
turns. I became alarmed and took him to
the doctor, but the treatment did him no
good. I then thought I would try your
Worm Tablets, as to me he had every
appearance of worms. I procured a bottle
of them, together with a bottle of Indian
Itoot Pills, and commenced the treatment
The second day after taking them he passed
a stomach worm nine inches long, and the
next day one four inches long. Since then
he has picked up wonderfully and is twice
the child he was. If he shows any signs
again I will not hesitate to try them, as I
was so pleased with the results. I am most
grateful to the proprietors of these tablets,
as my husband is away on Active Service,
and the worry of our boy being so ill nearly
drove me mad. Thanking you again.”
STOMACH WORMS.
A MENACE TO CHILDREN.
Stomach worms are undoubtedly the most
invidious kind of all. They inhabit the
stomach and inflict great havoc upon their
victim. They deprive the victim of half the
nutriment he consumes, and when the
stomach is empty gnaw the sides of the
stomach, causing such terrible sensations as
to ofteu cause faintness. Aperient medi-
cines have no effect upon them, for when
any purgative is taken they fasten them-
selves to the walls of the stomach by a
groove running down their side. The best
method of dislodging stomach worms is to
starve the system and take Comstock’s
Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. The worms are
weakened by the want of food, and are
induced to take whatever is taken into the
stomach. Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets contain the properties which sicken
and disable the worms, and a dose of opening
medicine will clear them out of the system.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
tor the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 3s. 6d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street
Church Hill, Sydney; or Parish Street,
Wellington. N.Z.


Will the Russians again become slaves
either of anarchy or the Kaiser, or will they
yet be guided by right and reason? wonders
that wise spirit King George IV. topnotch
Scotch.— Adyt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special t"i i sky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED. Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUttB ?
LEWIS&WrIITTy MAKERS
No one can afford to waste.
Spend only what is necessary
and then always with an eye
to saving. Men, be practical
- economise shave your-
selves.
r^rjZIZZZZ
NO STROPPING
1223
NO STROPPING NO HONING
One bought to-day will save many a
shilling in a year, and hours of your
valuable time. Many styles to
choose from. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN THI
WORLD OVl»
Three-point Golf Ball
MESH
MARKED.
Distance
Approaching
Putting.
„ y** a;^A
Kgb&fr
Made by the WORTHINGTON BALL CO.
Three-point Green 31dwt,
Three-point Orange 29dwt. s
LARGE STOCKS ON~HAND.
Sold by the Leading Sports
Professionals throughout Austr
Sole Agents for Australasia (Wholesale onW
R. S. COUCHE <& CO *
SYDNEY :
321 PlfT STREET.
MELBOURNE;
396 FUNDERS LA^
i
'3r‘
2!?5:
v:-
*
0
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable*
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The public revenue yielded by the totali-
sator during the week’s galloping and trotting at
Chchurch last month was £ 13,500. And the Maori-
land Government doesn’t go bushranging after i
per cent, either. In Sydney on the basis of existing
patronage of the machine at suburban meetings a
week would give the State a bit less than £lOOO.
The joke is growing stale even on the pony courses.
At: Canterbury Park on Saturday two machines had
only £lOOO to churn up on eight races.
* * * *
Weights came out last week for A.J.C.
Villiers Stakes and Summer Cup—Panacre, 9st. 51b.,
and The Fortune Hunter, 9st. 51b., at the top of the
respective lists. Last year’s winner, Wedding Day,
is in the mile at Sst. 81b., and reads not too badly.
Norbury has Bst. 51b., Sobrina Bst. 31b., Ardrossan
7st. li-lb., Tresa 7st. 111 b., and imported Snow
King 7st. 101 b. The Cup is an event usually profit-
able to Israel, but up to the present the punter
has shown no disposition to rush anything for either
event. .
San Fran, winner of the 1901 Metropoli-
tan, has died from the effects of a kick from a
stable mate. His most sensational race was for the
Melbourne Cup the same year. Revenue was a 2 to
1 favorite, the hottest pot ever known. San Fran’s
following, undeterred, backed their horse solidly at a
long price. Revenue w-on, but San nearly upset the
pot—and would have actually done it but for an
accident in the race. He finished second. He
won the Sydney Cup and Randwiek Plate during his
active career and, retiring, was fairly successful at
the stud.
* * * *
Two dead-heats were recorded at the
ponies «at Ascot (Sydney) on Saturday. In the first
division of the Fourteen Hands Handicap Themia
and Govova passed the post together, and in the
first division of the Fourteen-One Handicap the
little champion Lady Liddell, with list. 131 b. aboard,
and Freda Field, carrying 4st. 31b. less, struck the
judge simultaneously in the eye.
There were unusual happenings at Can-
terbury Park (Sydney) on Saturday. Of six races
on the programme three were run in divisions, tw r o
in a single spurt and one not at all. There were
three falls during the afternoon, and as these could
not be explained by interference an inspection was
made of the course. It was then found that the
premises were caving in, and, as nobody wanted to
see a field disappear, the final event Was called off
after the boys had weighed out. The worst sufferer
was the fielder, w 7 ho found he had to take back
tickets bearing duty stamp.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup w’inner Sasanoff has
taken another race at last. He w-as a starter in the
first division of the Flying at Canterbury Park
(Sydney) on Saturday and upended a hot pot in
Cereica, who had been backed down to 6 to 4 to
beat the rest of a moderate lot. Sasanoff drifted out
at 12’s. The stable expected Sweet Corn to get
away with the mile and a quarter event later in
the day, and didn’t collect that time either. The
imported Tosson, w T ho had run second to Highland
Band at Rosehi'll a month ago and finished incon-
spicuously at two other meetings afterwards, had
firm friends where money talks and pulled them
through—Sweet Corn a poor third.
Putting a jumpers’ flat race on the pro-
gramme and yet allowing the nags to be steered by
lads w 7 ho earn a living on flat performers is not
giving the over-fences rider too good a deal. But
it is what happens on Sj-dnev suburban courses, all
the same. The hurdle-riders’ chances are very
limited at the best of times, and it wouldn’t hurt
anyone if in races for leppers they had a mount
whether the fences were there or not.
Melbourne punters are beginning to think
that the job of breaking the books has been adjourned
too long. Last month 36 races were run on regis-
tered courses in the metropolitan area, and only six
favorites were winners. And on Saturday at Mentone
the crowd was simply skinned alive. In the Plate 7
to 4 was laid on Three, and just as everybody was
getting ready to collect Itys was taken right across
the favorite’s track and extinguished his chance and
the hopes of the push. Later on it was announced
that the rider of Itys had been suspended for six
months, a circumstance which provoked further con-
troversy on the old subject of what ought to happen
to a backer’s cash when he sees it bumped over the
fence. No argument will convince the backer, after
his nag has been interfered with, either that he
should be a loser or that anyone should be able to
win.
* * * *
The M.L. punter Richmond, whose heavy
wagering at Fleniington and Caulfield made a lot of
people sit up and -take notice, is alleged to have
explained that he took to throwing big wads about
as a relaxation from business. Richmond was told
10 years ago by his medical attendant that he would
peg out from over-exertion unless he started to go
slow. Whereupon he commenced being a punter and
has been feeling better ever since, and his vast
commercial undertakings with a turnover of £500,000
a year are going stronger than before. This page
does not know whether the cheerful Richmond was
warned by the Maoriland Sawbones that the surest
way to live a long time was to start pulling some-
body’s leg, but if he wasn’t the advice is herewith
handed, over to him as a Christmas box. Meanwhile
he might consider the expediency of getting an Aus-
tralian specialist to give an opinion on
effects derived by the neurone from having a pro
longed gamble with Ike. In a spirit of the utmost
brotherliness, too, The Bulletin urges him to get
back to Maoriland and watch that and
seriously consider whether he can find nothingbetter
to do with his time and cash A niall ' lo g ?“
betting at the rate Richmond has been perforanng
does no good to racing or anything else. Can t ne
escape from the half-million occasionally by going
fishing at Taupo? # ,
A lot of good flesh changed hands at
Hastings (M.L.) recently, when all the fleet-footed
horses owned by the late J. D. Ormond were pushe
towards new owners. The sale was a record for
Hawkes Bav both for number of animals offered and
prices realised, llymestra, the champion two-year-
old of Loan Land last season, was the “fl
several sportsmen were after, and W. R.
had to write a cheque for 2000 SU'neas to get t.
Hymestra’s full-sister Torfreda realised 800 guineas,
and several others, including the hurdler Gladful,
climbed over the 500-guineas mark. *
There will be much more horse-racing in
Fogland next season than there was during the one
just closed, the Government having decided to allow
80 days’ racing in 1918. Owners of jumpers are als
being' considered, and a certain number of winter
meetings, with events featuring races over sticks,
are to be permitted. As the decision concerning
this kind of thing rests with the Government Rail-
way Executive, it looks as if extra trains can now
be provided. This means that John Bull is begin
ning to get ahead of his big war job.
That good mare Harriet Graham retires
from the race-track, through persistent ieg trouble,
after a short but not inglorious career on this side
of the world. Harriet has an Australian Cup and a
second in the Sydney Cup to her credit.
* * * *
Here’s a weird coincidence. Red Steel,
Perdo and Distant Star were placed 1,2, 3 in the
Welter Plate at Mentone last week. They' had
finished exactly the same way in the Epsom Plate a
week before! Three different jockeys had the mounts
on the second occasion.
* * * *
Maoriland horse-owner G. D. Greenwood,
who lias had great luck with prads bred in
Australia, notably Biplane and Bimeter, reckons he
has bagged another coin-collector in Gloaming, a
Welkin-Light two-year-old bred in Victoria. The
nag isn’t big, but his shape is perfect and he has
already shown that he can gallop.
ON THE LAWN, FLEVINGTON.
About three months ago an Anzac
Mounted told The Bulletin how he kept his moke
moving across the sand by prodding it with a shin-
bone taken from an ancient tomb. The desert rider
was Trooper Ashton (“Snowy”) Rhoades, one of the
best sports Hawkesbury College ever met, and a
crack rifle-shot. A bullet wound in the right
forearm has now put him out. He says that shoot-
ing with a gas-mask on is the most baffling thing
a marksman can tackle. The rifle-clubs should give
it a trial.
* * * *
“Chechaquo”: There was a good punter
in Melbourne the other day who came to grief be-
cause he hadn’t the c’rect card. He was a Ballarat
man, six times rejected; but he again visited the
Town Hall recruiting dep6t and spent an idle 15
minutes in memorising an “eyesight test” card on
the wall. When his ordeal came he was faced about
by the M. 0., who set him to read a card on the
opposite side of the building. He gleefully rattled off
its contents until he struck a snag, and rendered
“AVATLJ” as “HEBHLN.” Then he was outed. He
had learnt the wrong card. “I’ve thrown seven,”
was his moody comment as he left the premises.
“Fred M.”: In my experience a greyhound
in decent form would beat any horse ever foaled in
a spurt of not more than half a mile or perhaps a
little further. A collie in good fettle will beat
either. Saw a collie break away with a pair of
greyhounds at Rooty Hill and beat them to the
hare, though they had 30 yards start. The
hare went the limit of the ground and escaped with-
out doubling. Will back a gohanna to beat the
fastest fox-terrier or foxhound over 200 yards at
any time; and remember that the ’go when he
travels whirls on only two legs.
Another of a good sporting family in Vic
has died playing the Game —-Capt. Eric Kerr,
\ \ M.C. His vounger brother, Lieut. Alan Kerr,
was' killed many months ago, while Capt. Frank
Kerr It \M C D. 5.0., now has a limp in Lngland.
Frank was a Vic. Rhodes scholar and a champion
long-distance runner. The youngest boy, Keith is
witn t he Artillerv. All were first-class sports and
scholars of Wesley, Melbourne. #
* A couple of Victorian athletes came back
the other day after doing their bit against the Hun
j T Matthews and Frank Beaurepaire. Matthews
lifted a bat for Vic. in 1913-14 and 1914-15 Sheffield
Shield cricket, and had a place in Syd Gregory s
1912 Australian XI; but, like most of the \oung
bloods of that outfit, found the wickets and climate
pretty hard to get along with. Beaurepaire is the
owner of a bundle of State and Australian swimming
championships and holder of the world’s 500 metres
record (6min. 57sec.), put up in 1911.
* * * *
Through the Last Goal, “Burly” "YV right,
who pulled on a Ma State jersey in Union football
against Bananaland, M-oriland and the English
teams which roamed Aust Mia in 1904 ; and Charlie
Scott, qf Bananaland, a g.eat Rugby Leaguer, who
played against N. S. Wales in 1913.
Private Paddy Pi- ien, of Alstonville
(N.S.W.), for whom a po*,.. mmous V.C. came lately,
was born at Gundurimba, on N. S. 1 Vales North
Coast, 20 years ago. Six feet high and over 14
stone in weight, he took a lot of beating, and was
all round athletic champion of “the Rivers.” Paddy
enlisted at 19, and was killed in action last Septem-
ber. The “old man” keeps the ptibs at Billinudgal
and Alstonville.
* * * *
At 80, Bill Young, founder of Randwick
Rifle Club, is still able to take part in social inter-
club shoots and punch holes in the bull’s-eye. He
has been squinting along the sights of ancient and
modern small-arms for 50 years—ever since he joined
the Valiev Club (Brisbane) in ’66- —and last Satur-
day (his* 89th birthday) he notched 39 out of a
possible 50 under hard-luck conditions.
“D.”: “Slogger” (B. 29/11/T7) de-
servedly hits the junior batsmen to leg for not play-
ing a brighter and more courageous game among the
rough grass. The juniors are incurable average-
hunters and will persist in trying to play “correct”
cricket, when a policy of free and vigorous hitting
would pay them much better. What is the use of
trying to keep the ball down like the cropped-turf
batsmen do if the grass is so rough that it won't
travel? I’ve seen a junior game dead from a scoring
point of view and the fieldsmen clustered closely
round the timid, crease-bound junior, waiting to take
the ball off his bat on the rebound. And all the
time the smiling bowler was sending down stuff that
should have been run out to and hit to glory!
Most of these young men have a superstitious horror
of seeing a ball in the air. And that is half the
exhilaration of cricket or any other ball game.
* » * *
Two of Sydney’s most aggressive batsmen
smote centuries in premiership cricket on Saturday
—Tom Andrews (Petersham), 148 against Waverley,
and A. Ratcliffe (Balmain), 106 against N. Sydney.
Last season Ratcliffe piled up 566 runs at an aver-
age of 47.16. In 1914-15 Sheffield Shield cricket,
Ratcliffe was the Ma State stumper, and certainly
is still eligible for the job if ever the war clouds
roll away. Andrews’s fine all-round ability was shown
last season in knocking up 419 runs averaging 32.23
and taking 40 wickets at 14.6. Andrews keeps his
nerves in order all winter on the howls incidental to
baseball.
* * * *
M. A. Noble (Paddington), in reaping six
wickets for five runs against Sydney on Saturday, put
up the top-notch bowling effort (for six wickets and
over) in premiership cricket for many years. Jack
Scott’s six for seven against N. Sydney last season
and G. L. Sayle’s six for nine also against N. Sydney
in 1915-16 are the only performances within eooee
of Noble’s. Mary Ann’s recipe for suppleness is
worth having. Nineteen years ago he headed premier-
ship averages with 49 wickets at 8.51. The only
better average on record for 24 years of premiership
cricket is Andy Newell’s 60 averaging 5.43 in ’93-4.
Noble tripped away with three Australian Xl’s, and
captained the ’O9 team. His best efforts with the bat
are 284 against Sussex in ’O2 (he and Warwick
Armstrong put on the sixth-wicket record of 428)
and 281 against Victoria in ’O5.
* * * »
“Snaffle” : Don’t let us flap our young
wings too loudly. Just about the time Pilot Stutt
was putting up two Australian flying records —Mel-
bourne to Sydney, 580 miles in 7hrs. 20min.. aver-
age speed slightly over 75 miles an hour; and long-
est continuous flight, Cootamundra to Sydney, 342
miles—Laureati, the Italian, was sky-chasing from
Turin to London with never a pause. The distance
covered was 700 miles, and the time taken —7hrs.
30min.—only 10 minutes longer than Stutt’s for
120 miles less. The Italian averaged something over
93 miles an hour. But he has travelled faster than
tlrat. On a trip from Turin to Naples and back,
with one stop, he covered 1040 miles, and his actual
flying time was lOhrs. 35min., i.e., slightly over 98
miles an hour.
* * * *
“Tam O’Shanter”: Gordon Young, who
recently got the Royal Humane Society’s certificate
and medal for saving the lives of the chief-engineer
and mate of the steamer Belmore last December,
when that vessel bumped the Macleay bar and was
wrecked; goes about 36in. round the chest and
occasionally amuses himself by submerging for 3J
minutes. Who knows the record for this sort of
disappearing trick ?
• r- ■ * •
K. Kirkland again broke the minute in
the Spit (Sydney) 100yds. handicap on Saturday,
winning a heat from scratch in 58 3-ssec. It was
the best swim this rapidly-developing youth has yet
done, and something quite in the championship class.
S. Beck was also in fine form and picked up a heat
in Sydney Club’s 100 yds. handicap in 59 l-ssec. A
fresh item on this club’s bill o’ fare was an “under
12” schoolboys’ event, which J. Roberts (Cleveland-
street) won in 34 4-ssee. Len Leadbeater, a limb
of a Parramatta family which has been swimming
for a quarter of a century, lost this event through
interference. He is a brother of C. Leadbeater,
champion of the Western Suburbs during the past
two years.
* * * *
Woodrow Wilson ought to make Henry
Ford his Minister for Doing Things Quick. By stan-
dardising his cars Ford has produced between 70,000
and 80,000 vehicles a month, and in May last
actually produced 83,616, each of which earned a
factory profit of £5 55., which means considerably
over £5,000,000 per annum. Ford has 37,000 men
on his pay-sheet at Detroit, and expects that the
Army will absorb two-thirds of this personnel. But
he has a reserve of over 25,000 who have been
tempted to offer their services by the Ford wage-
scale beginning at £1 per day.
Health to the Royal Australian Naval
Brigade Cadets who in the Imperial Challenge Rifl
shooting competition won the first four prizes ;
the senior division (Launceston 1, Hobart 2 Cair"
3) ! Altogether Australian competitors von 21 m-;,
out of 30 offered.
* * * #
Ping-porg, the mild fever that once raged
for a year or two, has recurred with some viJ
in the Y.M.C.A. huts which you’ll find wherever
you’ll find khaki. British patriots have due out
the implements for the forgotten pastime, and the
Y.M.C.A. has them extraordinarily popular.
At the Vic. Northern District High Schools
competitions the other day a youngster
Leonard Crone, of St. Arnaud, lifted himself over
sft. Ojin. in the high jump. If he can do the
same thing for the entertainment of his grandchildren
at 65 the friends of Leonard Crone, Esq., will be
able to say that he carries his years well.
“R. Reading”: One good result of the
recent floods on the N. S. Wales North Coast is a
wonderful improvement in the fishing, and as I write
half the population is busy at Tweed River mouth
with line and worm landing fine whiting. Catcher
of 100 good fish are common. The beach is strewn
with cuttlefish; I picked up a fine specimen, about
2ft. 6in. long and Bin. broad. One boatman came
back with a splendid specimen of what he called the
flute-fish. Whatever his real name may be flute-fish
is a good moniker, for he only needed half a dozen
small holes in his long round neck, and flute he
would have been. About 2ft. 6in. long, he has a
very small mouth, just like a snake’s, a narrow,
hollow neck quite 6in. long, like a tin tube, big eyes
and gills, to all of which is joined a body semi-
round —something like a garfish—ending with a
thin, hair-pointed tail with a couple of small steer-
ing fins alongside. Rare specimens of the Knight
fish ( monocentris gloria marts) occasionally come to
hand. Mr. Venn, of Mullumbimby, recently landed
one from the rocks at the mouth of the Brunswick.
These fish are wonderfully colored and finned, a blaze
of delicate brilliance. Shaped something like bream,
they have a big bold head, under jaw shot back a la
bulldog, and a thick coat of hard sca.les. They run
only from sin. to 9in. long. So gaudily are’ they
colored with yellows, reds, browns and pinks in the
webbing of the fins that with a couple of luminous
rings or discs on each side of the head they must
attract the small fry' of the sea on which they pro-
bably live. Another fish occasionally come across is
variously called box-fish and cow-fish. It has a
horned head very like a cow’s, and when dried and
preserved the skeleton is just like a box —almost the
shape of a coffin. Sea-snakes are often found on the
beach. Our most exciting few minutes during the
recent vagaries of weather was the capture of a big
shark. We saw his black fin in the channel, and 1
got into a boat with Louis Farrugia, who had hook
and line ready. We kellicked in the current, let the
bait (a neck of mutton) drift with the outgoing
tide, and sure enough the shark took it. We pulled
to the beach, dragged the shark ashore after he had
given uS a warm quarter of an hour, and though
only 9ft. 2in. in length he looked a fearsome mon-
ster, especially at the mouth. He turned out to be
a she, for when the body was opened nine lively
young ’uns, each about 2ft. 6in. long, hopped out.
The Adelaide detectives’ uncanny skill in
picking winners is such a regular thing that even
their own counsel was moved to boast of it in the
latest prosecution against a human bookmaker.
George Gray had an entirely unexpected
honor conferred on him in Adelaide. Jackson, Crown
Lands Minister, gave him a dinner at Parliament
House and asked 40 guests to meet him.


LEARN HOW TO DEFEND YOURSELF
mm
TO-DAY NOW!
The fear of getting a thrashing prevents many a man from asserting
his manliness when the occasion for doing so arises.
Have YOU the necessary confidence in your ability to take your own
part in the world —to assert your manliness the moment you should
be called upon to do so?
A knowledge of Boxing, such as I impart to you through my .course
of Postal Instruction, will give you confidence in yourself and ability
to deliver a sound thrashing to any aggressive fellow who may cross
your path.
1 TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable move in scientific boxing.
Write to-day for my interesting Booklet, “SCIEN-
TIFIC BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which describes
my methods, terms, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and send it to
me, with three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
658 BELMONT BUILDINCS, SYDNEY.
SIRIS
TOBACCO
(Registered).
CUT GOLD BARS .
A Cool, Medium, Virginian Tobacco
without a bite.
JT
co^
9SS
o<>T> 0
v?e
s -
eSSai
*v
52
lib. Boxes, 8/-. Postage : N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-
State, 1/2.
£lb. Poxes, 4/-. Postage: N.S.W., 6d.; Inter-
State, Bd.
We are sure, if you try this High-
grade Pipe Tobacco, you will find
in it a pleasant and satisfying
smoke.
Send for our illustrated Booklet and Price
List (Post Free). It will help in your
Selection of Xmas Gifts for the Smoker.
A. REBBLEWHITE,
Tobacco, Cigar and Cigarette
Importer,
“The Old Established House,”
Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THECOMFORT
OF POWER
v\W v
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
Catalogue " DJ' with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. ltd:
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
The Power/
Behind the Engine
m
m
9
531
a*
uAtEONAi
ENZINE
lO€M.rtQTOft SPI««T
rtONAIOII COnFAnY
uniTto
NATIONAL
BENZINE
It is its purity that gives National Benzine
its greater power —
A power that makes your engine
pulsate with increased driving
force
—power -so ample, so clean, so consistent and so
economical that it increases the capacities of your car
and the pleasures of driving to a remarkable degree.
Try the National Spirit.
Obtainable all Garages and
Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL COMPANY, LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
/
i
A
♦
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
E>
ym
m
m
The "Stockman”
','///, '////
/■
Riding Boot
<//*,
A
A
/
/sy.
A
A,;'-*
/ /
. A
iMAsmmk
' ■•••/
■
v'K-.
'A. _
■■■ w VjiP#* *sps ! MS
■mAAm
,■//*' ,-
I;/'-;
N,' /
■A
-> -/-
/
x y x
- ;; ,p&
tA7
i *
a s^Shs
t ?,•
■ '
i Obtainable in A
W^ s m& -fati'Willouf Calf at 18/6. . Don’t faiHo -
order— We hab&J'Your” Size - |ssl
"'"~~' : A :^'-^ags .?£&*«*• ~»:-.:.vsr-----—•••••■i->^:.":sr"", 2 3
Lincoln, Stuart & Co, Pty. Ltd
« Mail”"-- . -...."
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne. ~ ;
?'con»tructed
strong, : fully*
; seasoned Calf, with Elas~
.'.tic Sides and Double
. Tags j -DuSt and Water-
proof; light, comfortable,
' ■ rser^iceablefeasy to pu11..:
on andl off) the "Stock*-
’Tis e-boot that-na
Australian h o rs em a n
-should be Tvititout." Ob-
Jainablein all sizes. .


The Onoto
is a Real
Xmas Gift!
This Christmas don’t
give useless presents,
however pretty they
may look. Give some-
thing that will be ap-
preciated and used by
all who receive it —
an Onoto Self-filling
Safety Fountain Pen.
The Onoto fills itself
from any ink supply,
cannot leak, and
cleans itself in filling.
The ink flow can be re-
gulated to suit any style
of writing.
Can you give a better pre-
sent? Can you think of
anything else that will be
used every day for a life-
time than this British-
made Fountain Pen.
Price, 14/6
at all Stationers,
and Stores.
Onoto
Self-Filling - - IjL^
Safely Fountain a Cfli
Manufacturers THOS. DE
LA RUE & CO,, Ltd.. Bunhill
Row, London, E C. Managing:
Agents Norman Baker &
Longliurst, 50 York St. Sydney
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking: Botanical Gardens.
See This Woolbale?
4;
Send Your
Wool
Winchcombe
Carson
1
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERS, LTD.
Sydney ANO Brisbane.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE . PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS.
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO ana OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118. West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Toy Dog Lovers U Breeders.
pOR SALE—ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
F prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
hodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KIRNBANIv, Arthur Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
V
4jm
A
m.
&
w
kv H
s\
X
ft
v'Ul
&
\
\
<Jft
V/
?/
Mint
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible—
your body must be kept tc>concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. 6REAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
The Playground of Australia
All Information, Guidebooks, etc., from Tasmanian Government
Tourist Branches in Mainland Capitals.
SYDNEY : 262 George Street.
MELBOURNE : 59 William Street.
BRISBANE: 41 Queen Street.
PERTH: 50 William Street.
Ihe HOBART and LAUNCESTON Bureaux arrange all local
trips and book to all parts of Tasmania.
ACCOMMODATION - ARRANGED.
Illustrated Guidebook,
containing
Accommodation List,
3d„ posted 6d.
rr>*anr»xT E ’ T ‘ EMMETT, Director,
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Treasury Buildings, HOBART.
HORLICK’
MALTED MIL
KC/>
teTed andSSS? tlred /eeling-fbr buUdmg up debili-
Malted Mnt P i ene T T e l~ take Horllck 's. Horlick's
in a L^n/ S i he J deal Food ' D rink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only
try it at the
SODA FOUNTAIN
I
©
It was one of the earliest directors of
the Bank of N. S. Wales, a merchant named
Jenkins, who imported to Australia the first
still for making spirits.
Australia took its Court mourning in dead
earnest a century ago. In November, 3SIT,
died the Princess Charlotte, only child of
the Regent, afterwards to be George IV.
Sydney did not hear of it till the April
following, but then got busy. Great play
was made with tolling bells and half-masted
flags; but in addition all officials and all
others “whose circumstances and situation
in life will enable them” (the Naicest people
of to-day) were to wear mourning “as long
as they would do so in private life.” Then
the Great Grief was brought home practi-
cally to the rest. All places of amusement,
and ail shopkeepers, except butchers and
bakers, were to shut their doors, all Courts
of Justice and public offices were to close,
all public labor to cease —for a week !
“The Lamb”: Chaplain Tompkin’s refer-
ence in the Methody Commonwealth to
Psalm 38 (B. 15/13/T7) is hardly to the
point if the accepted facts are true. It. is
generally considered proved now that syphilis
was imported into Europe by the sailors of
Columbus on their return from America about
400 years ago. Before that time no refer-
ence that is of evidential value is discover-
able, and examination of thousands of dead
bones has failed to produce signs of syphi-
litic lesions which should have been there if
the disease was any way as prevalent as it
is now. Similarly with Egyptian mummy re-
mains. David had other loathsomeness in
his mind when he wrote his health tract long
ago.
The ghouls of trade! The
(Vic.) city inspector, prosecuting a fish-oh
for unclean premises, handed up this encour-
aging testimonial: —
The stench was dreadful even inside a house three
doors away. I found fishbones and rotten fish had
been lying about the yard for four days. In a room
used for cleaning fish and rabbits ready for sale there
were millions of flies, and the floor was crawling with
maggots. Defendant was hosing them out when I
entered.
The P.M. said £lO. Henry VIII. would
have nailed the maggot-farmer by his ear to
his own shop-counter. But this is an enlight-
ened age.
Captain Tom Bowling, of Christchurch
(M.L.), a veteran of the old-time sailing clip-
pers, has lost four brothers and a son at
sea. One brother went down in the ship
Matoaka, bound from Lyttelton to London,
in the late ’sixties ; another was lost in the
ship Avalanche (he was mate of her), run
down in the English Channel; another dis-
appeared overboard from his steamer in the
Mediterranean; and the last sailor brother,
Captain Alfred Bowling, lately fell to a Hun
shell off Malta. A submarine bailed up
Bowling's steamer —she was unarmed—and
the skipper surrendered; but the mongrel-
spirited pirates put in a shell which blew his
head off. That accounts for all the brothers ;
and the son was lost with all his com-
rades in the ship Australia, posted missing a
few years ago. An elder boy, now chief-
officer of a Red Funnel steamer, had an A 1
schooling in seamanship with dad in the ship
Invercargill, one of the last of the Shaw-
Savill sailers.
Sir Michael Murphy, of Dublin, whose
only daughter the Melbourne-born baronet
Michael O’Loghlen is about to marry, is
head of the firm of Michael Murphy, Limited,
steamship owners, of Dublin, Liverpool,
Swansea and Cardiff. Murphy, who is a
director also of the Belfast Banking Co.,
has been mainly instrumental in reviving
shipbuilding in Dublin. The marriage of
Mick O’Loghlen, assuming there comes an
heir, cuts out of the title, etc., brother Bryan,
who married in 1909 a daughter of the late
Daniel Grant, of Bendigo. There isn't much
etc., by the way.
“Nemo” : William Henry Irvine, the Con-
scription leader, comes from an Irish town
where there were big rows long before he
golt there. He is the son of a J.P. at a
place called Dromalane, near Newry, in
the County Down—right up in the Black
North. In the middle of the seventeenth
century there was a big rising of the natives
ot Dromalane to expel the English settlers
from Lister, and the place was left in ashes
When Charlie 11. got the English throne,'
Irvine’s birthplace was rebuilt, but in 1689
it was burnt again, this time by Berwick's
puke, op whom the army of Billy 111. was
in pursuit. William Irvine was born in
1858, and went to school at the Royal
School of Armagh, founded by the First
Charlie of England in 1627. When he was
17 he was sent to “old Trinity,” Dublin,
where he had for mate and fellow-student
Oscar Wilde. One of his professors was
J. Iv. Ingram, who wrote 4< Who fears to
speak of ’98?” Irvine went to the King’s
Inns, Dublin, as a law student, but was not
called to the Bar till 1884, when he was in
Victoria.
A. Downward spent 18 years trying to
get into the Victorian Parliament. He began
at 30 and did not succeed till he was 48.
was M° rn ington, on Port
1 lump bay, that he wanted to represent.
His first opponent, in 1877, was J 1
Purves, and years later L. L. Smith once got
him out of the seat; but he is an older hand
at the game now, and this time he had a
comfortable majority of’ nearly 700. He
is a native of Collingwood Flat and pro-
bably the oldest Victorian-born in the
Assembly.
One of “Bully” Hayes’s old pals passed
out at Wanganui (M.L.) the other day.
This was John Jones, a sampler of many
adventures, some of them when he carried a
nimble carbine in the Maori War. Hayes
came into Wanganui river-mouth in the
schooner Shamrock one day in the ’sixties
and when he sailed out again Johnny Jones
went with him for a voyage to Fiji. It was
the Shamrock that received some unkindly
attentions from British warships and M.L.
Government vessels. Hayes was suspected
of selling powder and lead to the Maori
rebels on the West Coast. There is a yarn
current at Ivawhia that he ran in there one
day and did some profitable biz with the
Ivingites. There weren’t many places in the
Pacific where “Bully” didn’t drive a good
bargain.


mm
d
r ■ 2 ~ -v't -v. MB
|sEw^"
I i I
XJ
!v
V ' wWsr W : M
II
F
Goodyear Conveyor and Elevator Beltings
EVERY mining engineer is well aware of the very severe conditions which his
Conveyor and Elevator Belting has to meet. Ordinary belting which had not
undergone special preparation for this strenuous work would give only a very limited
service. Goodyear long ago recognised that Conveyors and Elevators require an extra
high-grade and specially constructed belting to meet the demands imposed upon it.
Goodyear belts can be described in a manner that will
make their superiority immediately recognised, although
the methods by which the results are obtained are not
disclosed.
The canvas duck is a Goodyear special weave of heavy
construction known as thirty-six ounce, yet with greater
tensile strength than ordinary duck of this weight.
The special weave eliminates the stretch and produces a
fabric that can be properly impregnated with rubber, so
that the finished Goodyear product is practically free from
stretch, thus eliminating the annoyance and loss due to
stoppage to cut out stretched portions of belt.
We use the word “impregnated” for the reason that there
is a vast difference in the manufacture of belting, between
ordinary coated duck and Goodyear impregnated duck.
The latter is more expensive, but renders the duck moisture
proof and flexible. In addition to this, Goodyear Con-
veyor and Elevator Belts have a thin sheet or skim coat of
high-grade rubber between each and every ply.
The belt surface is filled with the best rubber cured to resist
moisture and wear; the constant shifting of the load ; the
grind and the grit and the dust between the bucket and
surface of the belt; the moisture working into the belt at
the splice, and injury to the belt, caused by the passing of
abrasive matter between the belt and the lower pulley.
Because they are waterproof throughout they are the ideal
construction for overcoming the deterioration common to
both conveyor and elevator belts, caused in the latter case
by moisture entering at the bolt holes and in the former by
the often inclement weather conditions under which these
belts frequently operate.
The rubber covering is compounded to resist solutions, and
with the high-grade friction between the plies, makes Good-
year belting a most desirable and economical installation.
When writing for quotations state fully the conditions under which the required belting will have to operate.
The Goodyear Tyre 8 Rubber Company of Australasia Limited
231 Clarence Street, Sydney 122 Flinders Street, Melbourne
Adelaide Street, Brisbane 6 Chesser Street, Adelaide
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth; and at Broken Hill.
LA


THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing 1 Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
NO ELECTRICITY
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
The Lake Breeze
Motor Cooling Fan
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs -less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, hand some,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity, and is port-
ablei Send for circu-
lar. Order early.
Agents wanted.
ADDISON PARKER, I
34 Clarenc* Street, SYDNEY, g
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
Ur#
GOUT **
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Proof <fc Co., 221* Strand. London.
Marbles
JOINTED RIFLE ROD
Strong, stiff, rigid, as a
one-piece rod, yet can be
taken apart in a minute and
packed in a compact case—
easily carried
in pocket or
belt. Made of
brass or steel
will last a
lifetime. Note
the construc-
tion. Connec-
tions are of steel. Dowels
relieve screws of all side strain
and give perfect rigidity. Pat-
ented steel swivel permits
cleaner or cjpth to revolve ana
follow rifling—gets every par-
ticle of dirt.
Marbles
RIFLE CLEANER
gets every speck of lead,
rust and powder crust. Goes
right into angles of grooves,
cleaning and polishing them
thoroughly. Most efficient
cleaner ever invented.
Ask your dealer for these
Rifle Rods and Cleaners.
Complete illustrated catalogue
of Marble's "Sixty Sporting
Specialties’’ sent postpaid on
request.
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Avenue
Glaastone, Mich.. U. S. A.
Cable Addrass "Marble” Gladstone
Australian & New Zealand Rep’sent’a
HARRY IYICLOEN, Box 1349, SYDNEY
BHASS SECTIONS, STEEL JOINTS, SWIVEL TIB.
(Is 8)
E
c y s=±=a /A
d ) )
THIS PATENTED CIGARETTE MACHINE
•makes a perfect cigarette. Instructions with each
machine. Send to H. FRICKE, Tobacconist,
Ijallarat, Vic. Bd. Post Free.
Hansen’s Rheumatic R'jn^y
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) C. A. ROSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholcsale: ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY;
ROCHE, TOMPSITT, MELBOURNE.
Petrol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Fob our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
i
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
The “Bulletin"
Stock Saddle
AND
The “Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we
They both have pigskin seat, the “GS"
panel, with leather down sides, long flap s a n d
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle
£7lO/6 Complete.
£6jls/6 without Stirrups.
£6/9/6
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales. t
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 13/6; post, 1/.
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, 9d.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, if. in
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The Kemp Saddle
AS USED BY
PROFESSOR KEMP
OF
BUCK JUMPING FAME.
In this saddle it is impossible for rider to
be thrown on to head of saddle, while it
also has all the benefits of stock kneepads
without their disadvantages. See how the pads are brought
high up, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts are
made in one piece of kip leather, making a wonderfully
comfortable seat. The fittings included are Sctlid Nickel
SB Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£B/15/ - Complete, or £B/5/ - without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Cash with order.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, .SYDNEY.^
to
Fr
&
Is He an
“Indifferent Correspondent" ?
Most of his “ indifference ” is due to not
having a Waterman’s Ideal handy when
the opportunity for writing presents itself.
Give him this perfect pen and his letters
will be longer and more frequent. There’s
nothing he’ll appreciate more than the
gift of a pen that is always ready and
always right.
Three Types: “Lever Pocket
Self-Filling,” “Safety,” “Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
L. G. Sloan Ltd., The Pctt Corner,
London, England.
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON,
105 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
YOU CANNOT BREAK
the glasses of our Soldiers’ Watches —you may hit
them with a hammer, but they simply won’t break.
Seventy per cent, of the Watches in the Trenches
have proved useless because of broken glasses in the
past. There are no jewellers’ shops there to fit new
ones. Science, seeing the evil, has provided the
cure by producing an unbreakable glass, and we have
opened up another shipment of a few dozens only.
The watch movements, too, are reliable, fully
jewelled levers, that we guarantee for 15 years.
The dials are full, luminous, and so perfectly
clear on the darkest night.
FAIRFAX § ROBERTS Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
&
Absolutely Reliable Silver Lever "
UNBREAKABLE GLASS,
leather wristlet, s oh
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Yis: But if things hadn’t gone right, what
then? The doctor’s fee in such cases is really insur-
ance money; and this paper isn’t going to suggest
that the premium shouldn’t be paid...• ». AY .H..
Thanks; but you’re wrong as to one thing. The B.
knows lots of good men —nearly 300,000 of them.
. ...Ransome: Much obliged; but there’s been one
answer, and that’s enough 0.N.: Thought at first
*it might do; but it is too rough for a sonnet.
don’t you use an occasional stop ?. .. . Learner . How
we crossed the Yser” could only be written accept-
ably by a man who had really ploshed through the
mud of Flanders... .H.V.C.: One may do. .. .
M.C.H.: Lumpv and bumpy in manner and thought
and without a hint of 5ki11.... Skirlaugh: Couldn’t
stand a blank verse epic even on so sweet a subject
as jam... .O.B.: How could we but blush pinker at
a tribute like this?—
A month to-night Joe, don’t you know,
Since I wrote to that paper that little note;
Only just for a joke, and to make it known
That funny piece you said I didn’t ought have wrote.
As you have never seen the paper, Joe,
It’s worth your while to have a screen;
’Twill open your eyes, so put your bit of doe
On this paper, which is bright and keen.
. ...A.M.G.: “The Height” has promise in it —only
promise G.C.: Not up Wallid: “Aylsha” has
cclor, but misses Weei: It won’t do. You have
a long way to go....lduna: Grip your yarn with
more vigor. ..,H.W.: “Thoftie” doesn’t convince. . . .
F.R.: “Port Campbell” makes a rather dreary trip
of it.... Orion: Not up. .. .K.R.S.: You’ll have to
tame that verse and teach it to either walk or
dance A.C.D.: Commonplace stuff of no parti-
cular merit.... E.W.D.: Not improved. Get rid of
your habit of using print-worn phrases and leave
the rough edges on rough men.... Chick: Not for
us; but it’s a good try.. ..J.H.: Don’t care for
either of them. The words are many and large
sounding, but the force and thought don’t amount
to anything. .. .Oyo: “Liz” can’t dance here....
Super-Saint: Not enough in it.... Mag: No use
A.W.0.: Plain rot 8.E.: “The Flirt” is not our
style. .. .M.A.H.: N 0... .Jock: Not quite A. 8.:
Sent 0n....A. of the House of Judah: That sort of
thing’s too easy.... A.H.K.: Oh, get ink. .. .L.P.J.:
Doesn’t score J.H.: Heart’s pathway too bumpy.
. ...G.J.: Go and have a look at “Bent Street”....
Krokus: Rather thin. ... D.G.R.: “Past and Present”
won’t do; but if it’s a first attempt, carry on
K.W.8.; Not enough skill in it; but it may come
with practice... .11. T.: You’ll have to soothe babies
particularly well before you can do it in this paper.
. ...H.C.AV.: Doesn’t interest... .S.D.: An ode to
a fly without one pause for breath or sense is not
likely to earn the “check” you’re after.... Whaling
Dave: Well, here’s luck. P.S.—Sorry the verse is
no g00d.... S.A.: Incoherent thing, making a painful
effort after humor, and finding only dirt... .F.H.S.:
Lame stuff... .Jackdaw: Small idea badly worked
0ut....R.C.: Not enough in it....W.F.: N 0....
M.S.: “Birthdays” are too rugged. .. .A.0.W.:
“Smith” can’t sail here... .C.H.S.: Can’t... .11. M.:
Falls down badly at the finish. Try it again....
Phil: Labored stuff... .8.A.J.: No use at a 11....
Montuna: Cut out contribution and forward to the
Accountant, Bulletin .... Anderson: You suggest that
it should be illustrated. It doesn’t so much want
an illustration as it needs a guide to the joke....
Fred G. (S.A.): We can’t do anything; but you
should refer the latter of the two subjects your
letter deals with to the Defence Department, Mel-
bourne .... Thos. McA.: Not printable ; but you cer-
tainly ought to send a copy of the letter to the Sec.
for Defence, Melbourne... .H. 0.5.: Cannot reply to
such inquiries by letter; but in that man’s opinion
the tendency will be for such stock to improve,
though with a lot of short-dated 4-i per cents, avail-
able, also free of tax, it will probably be some years
before par is reached again. Why not see if you can’t
arrange the matter with the State Savings Bank?
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.Y.: One of you? gags is old, the other is half
as long as a short story, and both drawings are
wiry and uninteresting. Now let us go out and
have some refreshments. .'. .R.F.A.: Until we can
supply a microscope with every copy of the paper
such miniatures must be rejected A.C.E.: Not
much point in it and the drawing isn’t remarkably
good.. .‘.N.McB.: Both too wooden. .. .A.H.: Can’t
use the two well-developed ladies in wire-gauze
bathing dresses N.T.: Unsuitable Woodicus:
It misses C.0.H.: Try again.... Jack : The re-
jected suitor might look like a human being if you
gave him a little more chin... .5.0.8.: Two depress-
ingly ugly faces A. 8.: Forced humor N.H.S.:
A weak thing. .. .L.H.: Where are the bulwarks?
That sort of man wouldn’t be travelling on a battle-
ship cleared for action.... L. Y.: Album drawing ;
thin jest... .W.E.W.: They don’t look like romantic
young things and the gag is old. Railway jest too
raw J.G.H.: Heard it before Ray W.: Haven’t
got a corner for Percy.
“Bion” : “McNorth’s” nurse(B. 15/11/T7)
simply had the bad luck to be in Brisbane.
If she had been in Melbourne, where the mili-
tary panjandrums are, she would have got
her travelling expenses refunded had she done
enough wire-pulling and log-rolling. I was
in the country 200 miles from Melbourne
when my call came to report. Owing to
difficulties of travelling there was a delay of
about a week before I reached Melbourne.
On arrival I was told I was too late for
that batch, and advised to wait at home till
others were wanted. As this meant con-
siderable expense, besides a train fare of
£2 12s. 6d., I felt blue about it. The prin-
cipal matron assured me the Department
would be under no expense for my keep until
I received notice of sailing, and then would
only defray travelling expenses one way. I
went home, and had been only two
weeks when a second call came. Reporting
in Melbourne for the second time, I found
the date of sailing still indefinite. As my
expenses were mounting up, and my earnings
were nil, I started to worry Victoria Bar-
racks, with the result that I was given
a free return pass, available for two months,
and advised to state my case in detail to the
Minister of Defence. Before the two months
were up, and going through some yards
of red-tape, I was able to ge.t a refund of all
my travelling expenses and board at the rate
of 3s. per day. Incidentally, when we did
go the allowance for uniform was £2l, not
£lO. “McNorth” must be wrong in quoting
the latter figure.


;%;v
HI 1 111
W wP®*-
£B2
• '■ •
illllklSll ’a
v-
■
■ ■
Ii
m
a
Si
€»§
mSmmhk ■:‘’m3b :
•i&FN
.
; - -v ... .-..-v: :-S i.
i«T*
■V
■
'
...
asw
■; •:
.
m
■ .--
■ ■:.
■-.
1r *jfS !
* I ft&mk ? & : ; i* Hi
ymm
-
■
:.
kr
■
r-
; I WX.
■
ts>»
A Xmas Gift for the whole family
The full, rich beauty of any musical composition
is perfectly revealed on a Beale Player Piano
With the tempo lever one may
regulate the movement at will ? drop
from the merry lilt of ragtime to
the slow, measured beat of the
sonata.
The expression lever affords absolute
control of the tone. From loud
crashing chords to the whispering
sigh of a dying Summer breeze —all
are right under your thumb.
Flawless technique
correctly interpret is
alone is just as soulless a thing in a Player Piano as in a human being The ability to
the greatest attribute that a self-playing Piano can possess. The Beale has a faultless technique;
b’ut greater than this —absolute control and sweet tone.
Informal Concerts held Daily.
Head Office & Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ask to hear a favourite piece.
Factory :
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST., ANN AND ALE.
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore. Newcastle, Gouiburn, Wa f| a 'y* C ™ RlA ’
Maple, Launceston. SOUTH ;
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart;
QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen St.. Brisbane; Kent St., Maryborough;
Sydney St., Mackay; Cairns.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 04, 6 Spring Street,
4 si o! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
♦ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) .
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Dec. 12.
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 15.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S. A. and W,A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydne.v, Dec. 22.
‘Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Blinking:, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputv Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A.;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . . . . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; AV. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—AA'. A 7. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tilroughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLA*, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
A*ARAA*OOI). Esq. ; HERBERT R. LA'SAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SY*DNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of |) eu > Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Slock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000 »
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking husinesa.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected ou all classes of
Buildings, Stocks. Furni-
Marine Risks
ture.&e. lientsalsoussured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Shipping &c L
Canadian-Austraiasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PAP * _ ,
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—‘‘The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NFW SOUT
Established 1817..
H WAFFS.
m
Directors:
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10,589.960
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Ii.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, G.M.U., AI.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G, Milson, Esq. ; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office —Georqe St,, Bydney, London Office—29 Threadneedlo St., E.C.
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
J£ank ot ßitftra!ta
SYDNEY. |
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1, Minimum
/” Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 A & encies at Post Offices
in Australia, and Papua.
Interest at O<V
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Deputy Gorernor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER. Goreruer
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England - The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE ADELAIDESTEAMSHIP Co.
EXPRESS PASSENGER service to and #
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLaL
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. RUPARA, Decembers.
S.S. MORIALTA, December 15
S-S. PARINGA, December 22.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy
G. S. YUILL * CO. ITO
A f' nU - 6 “‘“DCIi STREET. SIME,
Huddart Parker Line
Magnificent East. Passenger Steamships ’
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks from' <5,.a
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and Mel ‘
as advertised in daily newspapers. d versa >
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydney and \t„n * ‘
New Zealand ports and vi/e .
be obtained on application. v oulars to
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa everv ft,
weeks S.S. Rotomahana between
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to ■
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON &"CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN <fc CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade repi-
larlv to: — ,
1 WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELUNGEK,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, CODS
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction
with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
io include first- or second-class rail to BBISBAat,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillunioan,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence I“ T ®*j
there connecting with one of the Company 6 uP't°'
riate liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage o
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. GoTLtd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ YVYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steameis P
all up-to date arrangements for convenience
fort, making travel safe, easy and P le^. ' are
first port of call, First and Second a ]^ on 1 also
interchangeable with all Inter-State Comp •
with the Union S.S, Co.'s steamers in the Fn>i» seS
particulars on application. For dates of
Daily Papers. .
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
L AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British A
6d. weekly —an illustrated P
ling mail and cable news from ‘ pe
and news of Australians in
; home. Australians are cord ail.v i
to visit the British
12 Room at the Offices. Ho Hi u the
London, W.C., where they can
papers, meet their friends, -
me. and obtain information witn


Christmas calls for
odaK pictures
m
m
■
■
■
■' ■
m
■
r
mmm
wii
mv*
m
mm
■■■■
If you visit new scenes and places, a
Kodak will give you picture-records that
will live for ever; if you spend the holidays
by the seaside or in the country you can
take Kodak pictures, the making of which
will add zest to your pleasures; if you stay
at home, you will need a Kodak to secure
pictures of your relatives and friends.
The Kodak is ideal as a gift to a man, woman or child.
It arouses immediate interest on Christmas morning—
and sustains that interest through all the days to come.
There is a wide variety of Kodaks, ranging from 30/- to £l5/2/-.
All are wonderfully simple, and absolutely efficient.
The 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is the most popular camera
made. Takes postcard pictures —5-| x inches. Price £5/10/-
The 2c Autographic Kodak Junior is for elongated pictures —-
2J x4J inches. Price 55/-
r there are Brownies from 6/- to 52/6 —and the little 00 Premo
at 3/6 —a real camera, complete in every way —are fine for boys or
girls.
Ask for the beautifully-illustrated new booklet: “All Outdoors
Invites Your Kodak.” Free from all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba
Theatre), Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Riithven
St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346
Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner Lambton Quay and Willis St.,
Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.;
and Christchurch, N.Z.
YOUR CAR, you feel,
should have every=
thing the Hupmobile
has.
Yet few other cars offer
such distinguished
Beauty. Or
ance that outpoints
other fours, and sixes,
eights and twelves in
addition.
Or actual value in such
full measure.
You cannot choose
wisely until you have
at least had the Hup=
mobile demonstrated.
7h* Tnar/t of superior
[piotor
Hupmobile
Brief Hupmobile Specifications.
HUPMOBILE MODELS: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater. Motor: Four cylinder, 95 m/m
bore, 140 m/m stroke (3|in. x siin.). Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on
7-seater). Tyres, 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in.
x 4sin. on 7-seater, non-skid tyres on all rear wheels. Fully equipped with electric starting
.and lighting system, wind screen, hood, side curtains, door-curtain carriers, speedometer,
robe rail, foot rail, carpet in tonneau, five demountable rims, tyre carrier, pump, jack and
full set of tools —Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki hood and seat covers
at small additional cost over list price of car.
©
©
s=Seater-Wheel Base 119 inches.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —-
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui anti Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, MicHig(aii,XJ.S. A. — Cable Address: “HUPP DETROIT.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
Under the new management of T. M. Ahern, the
following improvements have been completed: New
Commodious Lounge, whole of Ground Floor;
New Dining-room, seat 150 persons ; New Kitchen ;
New Automatic Elevator; New Hot-water Sys-
tem throughout; New Bathrooms & Lavatories.
T”or Sale.
Premier Suction Gas Engines
100 and 170 b.h.p.
EXCELLENT CONDITION.
APPLY
JAMES MILLER & CO. PROP’T’Y, Ltd,
317-319 Little Collins Street,
_____ Melbourne. ■
FOR SALE. D.c. GENERATORS k MOTORS!
1 One (1) 120 KAY., 230-volt D.C. Generator.
One (1) 75 K.W., 230-volt D.C. Generator.
Two (2) 73 8.H.P., 230-volt D.C. Motors, shunt
wound.
One (1) 68 8.H.P., 230- volt D.C. Motor compound
wound.
Above machines are in good order and condition,
and can be inspected in Melbourne. .
Full particulars and price from
FYVIE k STEWART, 25 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
THE- CHANDLER SlX—Price £585
CHANDLER RECORDS ARE OWNERS’ RECORDS.
Not.to our knowledge has a professional Motor-car Driver ever made a record with n nnn’nrrD e, TV -
But ALL the THOUSANDS of owners of CHANDLER SIXES, EVERY DAY are mfkimx tTt-
SERVICE. ’ e making the kind of records that count —RECORDS OF SATISFACTORY
The CHANDLER COMPANY has never built a Racing Car. CHANDLER owners DO NOT wiyt t? • xx
The 55 to 60 miles per hour speed that EVERY CHANDLER CAR will do is sneerl ri Racing Cars.
The CHANDLER COMPANY has never built a special Mountain-climbing Car witk wWnJse" y ° u , would ever ask for.
The EASE with which EVERY CHANDLER climbs steep grades on high gear fcsatisfviL tn l ratio -
the chandler company has never supplied any chandler dfupr owner -
DEMONSTRATING PURPOSES. 11%K HLALER ANYWHERE WITH A
What ANY CHANDLER SIX does, YOUR CHANDLER SIX will do
The Manufacturer of ONE Six can make just as big CLAIMS as the Manufacturer nf • -r,
CAR. AND THESE ARE FACTS. NOT CLAIMS. * tacturer of any other six. R v ,t THE CHANDLER IS A FACT-CAR. not a CLALM-
There is NO OTHER SIX more flexible in control, more responsive to vour everv demand xi xx T x , „
There is NO OTHER which will pull hard grades on high with greater ease “ and than the CHANDLER.
There is NO OTHER so economical in operation.
There is NO OTHER which embodies in its design and construction sn mantr
There is NO OTHER of more beautiful body-lines or greater riding comfort ' ' acteristiq of High-Grade, High-Priced Motor-cars.
SPECIAL GEAR-RATIO FOR
SEVEN-PASSENGER TOURING CAR. FOUR-PASSENGER ROADSTER.
BOOK NOW AND SAVE INCREASED PRICE.
CHOOSE THE FACT-CAR FOR YOUR CAR.
Telephone— City 8862.
MARCUS CLARK CO. LTD.
Garage and Showrooms : 162 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Mummers have a hand in the writing of
all this season’s pantomimes. Barry Lupino
has concocted the Tait-Bailey “Aladdin”;
Victor Prince is responsible for the Fullers’
“Robinson Crusoe” ; and for most of the book
of the J.C.W. “Dick Whittington” Eardley
Turner will be answerable.
“John P.” : The late T. J. West cashed in
at slightly over £62,000, his English estate
being proved at £35,797 and the N. S. Wales
portion at £26,486, of which £19,942 is rep-
resented by shares in West’s Ltd. and Olym-
pia Ltd. When he landed at Dunedin (M.L.)
direct from Fogland in 1905 with a little
film, a machine and a troupe of entertainers
calling themselves "The Brescians,” he
hadn’t a bean. In fact, he had to borrow to
carry on. From that date, judging by his
estates, he must have raked it in at the rate
of £lOO per week!
When Marie Tempest leaves for Maori-
land she will take Shakspearean actor lan
Maclaren, whose job will be to play the
nice-young-man parts when Graham Browne
is character-roling.
“Alex. Somerville”: Allow me to take
blushing refuge again under my nom de
plume, which the Sundry Show critic
brushed aside, and say that I have no fault to
find with his notice of my comedy, “The
Adventure of an Adventuress,” lately staged
by the Adelaide Rep. Theatre; though there
are a few burs in his butter. A psychologi-
cal point involved seems, however, interest-
ing enough to review. The critic points out
“an unaccountable argument” from each of
the two women concerned, wife and adven-
turess. The latter refuses to leave her bene-
factor in the lurch, and. rather nastily, sug-
gests to the wife that she should claim and
rescue her own property by making the
appeal to her husband direct. That lady in-
dignantly refuses to submit him to this
humiliation. “Doubtful psychology,” says
the critic. I am probably prejudiced and
possibly dense, but I don’t see it. Regarding
it from the outraged wife’s point of view
and from a large fund of ignorance of the
subject, I read her mind differently. She is
strongly attached to her peccant spouse,
doubtless understands him better than
anyone else, and foresees for this sensitive,
highly-strung man a very abject humiliation
—and something more (a point elaborated
somewhat in the acting edition). Faced with
the job of being her own detective, relent-
lessly hunting down, catching and confront-
ing her Wandering Willie, flagrantly at
fault, as she must necessarily she finds
it humiliating to herself as well, dismisses
the repulsive idea and looks for an indirect
way out. Well, isn’t it? Shouldn’t she?
Wouldn’t you—supposing you to be that
sort of wife? Or supposing you to be that
sort of husband, for that matter?
“Sarastro” : On hearing that he had been
accused of complicity in a pantomime (B.
29/11/T7), composer Alfred Hill sat down
and wrote a Hymn of Hate, to be sung in
front of The Bulletin office by a battalion
of untamed tenors. The Christmas show at
the Playhouse (Sydney) is not a panto-
mime, nor even a revue, but a real, genuine
comic opera. Hill thinks that Souter’s
“book” is better than the music; Souter
declares that the music eclipses the book.
Those who care to assist in settling the
argument are requested to call at the Play-
house any night during the run of the piece.
Frederick Ward will be stakeholder and
referee. It starts on December 15.
“Julius Csesar” was put on at Melbourne
King’s just after the State elections, and at
the beginning of the Referendum campaign.
A gent, who had been conforming with the
Early Boozing I.aw found his way into the
gallery and listened to M. Antony’s oratory
in praise of Caesar, deceased. After
Maclaren had made several sarcastic refer-
ences to the “honorable” blokes who had
carved up Julius, the beer-patron became
annoyed. “Leave ’em alone,” he growled.
“Give vs y'r polishy !”
“J.F.H.” (London) : Major Evelyn
Beerbohm, of the British Artillery, killed
on September 20, toured Australia with
Lewis Waller. A nephew of Sir Beerbohm
.Tree, he naturally felt an affinity for the
stage and made a remarkably successful
debut nine years ago in “Sir Anthony,” a
play written by Haddon Chambers. Although
Nina Boucicault and Weedon Grossmith
were also in the cast and were given the
leading roles, young Beerbohm quite eclipsed
them. As the Times critic put it: —
It was Mr. Beerbohm’s evening. Tie is evidently
a born comedian, quietly and easily identifying him-
self with his part, getting all the fun out of it with-
out putting any strain on its truth and naturalness.
He afterwards played a number of parts,
but never realised the promise of his first
appearance.
Ted Stacey
first introduced
the picture busi-
ne s s to Tas-
mania in the
form of a pano-
rama in the
’eighties. Tak-
ing on the
drama, he bat-
tled along until
after the Boer
war, when lie
migrated to the
diamond fields.
Returning t o
the Speck, the
moving pictures
gave him a
second pus h,
and he is now
one of Hobart’s
r i g h t-thinking
citizens and
pilots Spencer’s,
pictures for a
pastime.
E. A. STACEY ,
Tasmania's
oldest-
established
showman.
“Stargazer”: Some Melbourne critics are
angry with Jones for using certain unpleas-
ant people in “Mary Goes First.” But
unpleasant characters are quite human.
They are, in fact, quite common, and are
almost essential to the making of a drama.
Every notable playwright has used them.
When a critic cries out against one and
another it is safe to wager that he does so,
not because they are bad art, or mere wan-
ton cussedness on the part of the author,
but because they have trodden on the critic’s
own corns. I remember stumbling upon an
example some years ago. The man who
“did the shows” for a paper I was then
connected with was reprimanded for unjust
severity in dealing with a certain character.
“She’s unpleasant,” he replied. “She’s
d —d unpleasant! Why does an author
drag an aggravating wretch like that into his
play? Who wants to go to the theatre to
sit out his own wife?”
Sydney playwright Haddon Chambers has
written “The Saving Grace.” which is billed
for production at London Garrick. It isn’t
exactly a war-drama, but the action begins
in the autumn of 1914 and the development
of the characters is “naturally deeply
affected” by the commotion. The leading
r6le is to be played by Charles Hawtrey,
the champion prevaricator of the London
stage—he looks 30 and is really in his
sixties.
“J.F.H.”: Ibsen’s “Ghosts” and Brieux’s
“Damaged Goods” were banned by the
British Lord Chamberlain in pre-war times
as unfit for public performance. But these
two having now had their characters cleared
and been given a clean bill of health, a
movement has been started in London to
secure the like freedom and absolution for a
third, Bernard Shaw’s “Mrs. Warren’s Pro-
fession.” A petition to the Lord Chamber-
lain in that sense has been signed by “prac-
tically every author and dramatist of estab-
lished repute.” The Chamberlain is in-
formed that the play has been publicly per-
formed on many occasions in the United
States and Canada, as well as in various
European cities, and therefore the continu-
ance of the prohibition in England is in-
congruous, also illogical and ridiculous in
the light of the permission given to
“Damaged Goods” and “Ghosts.”
From Walter Bentley :
“Norbell” once more resumes his attack in connec-
tion with the Actors’ Association. Will he deny that
the first attempt at founding an Actors’ Union was
a bogus attempt? If he does so, then he disputes the
decision -of Mr. Holme, the Industrial Magistrate,
who, in dismissing the application for registration,
declared the promoters and the whole scheme
to be bogus. Then, again, “Norbell” quotes from a
report which bears my signature, as he rightly
observes; but he forgets the sequel. I am merely
the secretary. Mr. Walter Baker was one of the
vice-presidents. At that time the late Mr. Tither-
adge, who was president, was hardly ever present at
any meeting ; consequently Mr. Baker was, generally
speaking, the leader in all movements, and many
of the council agreed with him. I merely recorded
in that report what had actually taken place; but
at the annual meeting at which that report was
read, it was very conclusively proved that the mem-
bers of the Actors’ Assoc, had no desire to form it
into a Theatrical Union. As secretary, I have no
voice in the deliberations of the council. I can
merely record what it determines upon, and the
determination of the members was very clearly
shown in the fact that they declined to re-elect Mr.
Baker and the others who followed his lead in the
desire to form the Actors’ Assoc, into a Union.
Now, who’s playing with a double-headed penny?
"A Soured Pro.”: Walter Bentley’s
admission that the Actors’ Assoc, only
helped the managements to squelch a
“bogus” attempt at unionism is worth con-
sidering. The Actors’ Union sought a mini-
mum salary for small-part actors and pay-
ment for matinees and dress-rehearsals. Ex-
cepting the performer, every person em-
ployed in the theatre is paid for matinees ;
and as dress-rehearsals are a replica of the
night-show, usually lasting all day, the
request wasn’t unreasonable. Yet that’s
what the Assoc, now admittedly helped to
squelch. I joined the Union, and also
attended the first meeting of the Assoc. —
held, by the way, in a theatre loaned by a
manager—where it was agreed that “con-
tamination with the Trades Hall on matters
of art was abhorrent.” As the majority of
mimes were under the managerial eye." the
motion was enthusiastically carried. Many
actors were next asked by their respective
managers to sign papers admitting member-
ship of the Union, and those who affirmed
were dropped—no victimisation, oh. no ! So
the poor mummer with responsibilities placed
the larder before his convictions and re-
signed from the Union. Bentley seems proud
of the victory. Well, I'm glad I haven’t got
Bentley’s conscience.
“Copabella”: What puzzles me is why
women take up stage work when they are
handicapped by physical peculiarities that
affect their enunciation or are visibly con-
spicuous. A few years ago there was a
visiting star of very minor magnitude
blessed with a top set of huge, overhung
teeth that distorted all her labials and ran
a kind of v motif through all she had to
say. Embracing her must have been to the
leading man something like kissing a picket-
fence- I heard her do Portia and the
“Quality of mercy” speech was weird. There
was another leading lady who, though
capable and finished had a •
maxilla that thickened her luwer
nated her whole stage presence a d domi '
other night, I saw a run in frf'V 1 *
part of some importance given t,f n tn 9 en ue
with the same detect, fccenSted b, B ,'*'"
picion of adenoids. The Indio* Dy a SUs '
charming and cultivated women Tind be
bank-clerks, sweethearts, beautv as
wives corset-experts, mothers, jo Ur ? a •!?’
recruiters, nurses or affinities t lsts ’
that is efficient and lovable. But whtih 811
the stage, of all attention-attractil °° Se
fessions ? acting p ro .
PERCY GRAINGER IN UNCLE SAWS
KHAKI.
“Madame Stralia’’ ran against an air raid
for her first singing of the name-part of
“Aida’’ in London. “Finely sung; with a
wealth of vocal means that made light of
executive difficulties,” said one critic, but in
the trying circumstances it was “impossible
to judge of her rendering of the character.”
Oscar Asche stopped his performance one
evening when the warning was given. Dion
Boucicault offered his patrons their money
back if they cared to leave, but only two
accepted. Some houses asked the gallery
people to go down into the “pit,” as London
calls the back stalls. Half the theatres gave
afternoon performances only for several
days. Ilis Majesty’s advertised itself as the
safest possible place to be in. all the floors
being made of concrete, and all the windows
securely sandbagged.
It was in a Melbourne theatre. The cele-
brated actress was greatly incensed by the
conduct of the good old pro. in varying his
performance slightly when on the stage.
“That was not rehearsed,” she said. ‘‘lf
you were my husband I’d knock your dashed
head off your shoulders for that.” The old
act-or looked at her gravely, blandly, stead-
fastly for a moment. Then he answered;
“Madam, if I were your husband I would be
grateful to merciful Heaven for a sudden
end, however dramatic.”
HER TEMPERAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our star was small and fair. Her eyes
Were trusting eyes and blue.
She had a way, so quaint and wise,
Of looking up at you,
That Won your heart if up aloft
You sat to watch the play.
Her smile was wonderfully soft,
And innocently gay.
She played a tender heroine,
An arch and elfish dame.
Her love was something half-divine
For young Lord What’s-his-name.
But when the first fine act was done
She bit him in her rage,
And kicked his shinbones one by one,
And fought us all up stage.
The second act was finer still.
She stood true to her love.
When horrid Uncle changed his will,
She cooed him like a dove.
But when the curtain fell, because
He’d “spoiled a speech on her,”
She tore him with her little claws,
And biffed the manager.
“Behind,” before the play was o’er,
She’d bashed her lover thrice,
Had two poor ladies on the floor,
And took hysterics twice.
The critics: “In her work right through
The sweet and naive were blent,”
They said; “the part is suited to
Her charming temperament.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Country Club, £395
Light Four, £365
Motor Cars
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
fc.
n
«
I;
Overland Light Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Overland “Country C\\&P
A New Achievement—and
Its Value to You
From motor cars that emphasize the
utmost economy without sacrifice of
quality, to the very highest type of car
in the luxurious class, virtually every
size and type of motor car is represented
in the Willys-Overland group of models.
This is a new achievement in the
motor car industry.
Its accomplishment.has necessarily
been gradual, involving as it did the
accumulation of vast resources, exten-
sive physical properties,✓ an. enormous
amount of equipment and the training
of a huge organization.
This has been distinctly a Willys-
Overland aim and achievement.
From the beginning the policy has
been the quantity production of motor
cars of quality.
It has been a steadfast policy to
share the economies and advantages of
quantity production with buyers of
Willys-Overland motor cars.
Heretofore this policy has benefited
certain classes of buyers only. But now
there is a quality motor car in the
Willys-Overland group for every class of
buyer.
Straight through from top to bottom,
quality considered with price, will show
you values in every class, possible only
as the result of this consummation of
Overland plans.
One executive organization,
*—one factory management,
*—one purchasing unit,
•—one sales management,
—one dealer organization, produce
and sell all of these models.
Enormous economies thus effected
are thus distributed so that every motor
car shares proportionately.
Any buyers of Willys-Overland
cars regardless of class, save materially.
See the Willys-Overland cars first.
Let us show them to you today.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Brg Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
“Country Club ”
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Cat
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart & Launceston,
EAGER & SON Brisbane. MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
KELLOW EALKINER LTD., Melbourne. ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
A. HATRiCK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willys-Overland Company Toledo, Ohio, IJ. S. A.
Manufacturers of Willys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
and Light Lorries


Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
•-egular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price,
GENUINE must bear signature
London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the E glish Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsbell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Why Have Grey Hair?
Few people know that grey liair is not a
necessary feature of age—tbat it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of hay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and > f ou will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment rids
the skin of blackheads, oiliness and enlarged
pores almost instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less, pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a sty mol tablet,
obtained from the chemist, in a glass of hot
water, and after the resulting effervescence
has subsided dab the affected portions of the
face freely with the liquid. When you dry
the face you will find that the blackheads
come right off on the towel, the large pores
contract and efface themselves and the greasi-
ness is all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be repeated
a few times at intervals of several days in
order to make sure that the result shall be
permanent.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
look out for any harmless thing that will in-
crease the natural beauty of their hair. The
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo on account of the peculiar glossy, fluffy
and wavy effect which it leaves. As" stallax
lias never been used much for this purpose it
comes to the chemist only in lib. sealed origi-
nal packages, enough for 25 or 30 shampoos.
A tea Spoonful of the fragrant stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair apart
from its beautifying effect.
How to Remove a Bad Complexion.
Cosmetics can never really help a poor com-
plexion; often ■ they are positively harmful.
The sensible, rational way is to actually re-
move the thin veil of stifling, half-dead scarf-
skin from the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
ous and beautiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
This is best done in a very simple wav, by
merely applying mercolised wax at night, like
cold cream, and washing it off in the morning.
Good mercolized wax can be obtained from
any well-stocked chemist. It absorbs the dis-
figuring cuticle gradually and harmlessly,
leaving a brilliant natural complexion. Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
blemises as red blotches, tan, moth patches,
sallowness, liver spots, pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
tifier this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
Every normal woman is always interested
in any plan by which she call quickly enhance
her beauty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discovery that
ordinary cleminite, such as any chemist can
supply, is an instantaneous and harmless
beautifier. there has been a growing demand
for it from smart women everywhere. They
usually get about an ounce and add just
enough water to dissolve it. A little of this
perfectly harmless lotion gives a beautiful
complexion to any face instantly. It renders
face powder quite unnecessary. Moreover, its
use cannot be detected. The skin is instantly
beautified but appears perfectly natural
under the closest scrutiny. [3
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
AYrita for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR QAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND’S HOT SPRINGS
FOR RHEUMATISM
CHRONIC INDIGESTION 8 GOUT.
Testimonials and Particulars—
LINGLEY’S HOTEL, Muckadilla.
XT* OR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
JL BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as waiting—always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on —do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this bij keeping
fit a tonic that really helps is
Dhosforino
I THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton B>C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
f v»§=
> s
2?
>m
0
/
<§>
i
tJH/tsure skin loveljnejs & add a zest~ to the toi/et.
PRICES, London. Liverpool. Manchesrer, Glasgow, Etc.
J2>£,a ur^j
i£> lcxrgely a nr\after* cpf*
''per/ech (Sorrxple^ciorx^
BOOTS are the smart wear for the season
—Dame Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most
weather.
Bostock No.
832
m
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bo stock.”
A charming: selection of Bostock s hoes
always on view at all leading: stoics.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
Are go£fJ°
still may get a licking.
Jet the Ravisher of Belgium «‘* n
lifting a handf
A Victorian native, C. W. Giovannetti, is
now Mayor of Pretoria, S’Africa. Father
was Italian, mother English ; and their only
child is a lieut. in the Flying Corps.
That stormy petrel, Randolph Bedford,
jars the old folk at home in the Leg. Coun-
cil “Get back to reason,” grunted one of
them the other night when Bedford was
swarming the hive. “I’ll have to leave the
House, then,” snapped the new young man.
J. B. Rugg, who lately went to I). Jones
with the barque Dee, was a well-known
figure on the Sydney waterfront up to a few
years ago. lie used to be master of Dan-
gar’s Sydney-owned ship Neotsfield, and sub-
sequently of the Macquarie and Ilinemoa,
both trading to Sydney. Lately he had been
in the Mauritius trade. The loss of the Dee
was his first mishap in 32 years’ command,
and when his ship went he went, too.
“Hamer”: It is the generous hand and
careless laugh of the Australian that win
him the popularity championship in Britain,
where, in spite of considerable misbehavior,
he is still the popular pet. There is no
reason why the Canadians, on their general
conduct, should not be equal favorites ; but
the Canadians, stalwart and sturdy, are
dour and simply can’t spend like million-
aires for a week, then go broke and hold up
casual passersby with a plain, shameless tale
of impecuniosity and thirst.
The widow of Alfred Bennett, eldest son
of Samuel Bennett, founder of the Evening
News and T. and C. Journal, who died
recently at Camden, was a daughter of
Alfred Mason Cane, a Sydney schoolmaster
as far back as 70 years ago. The school-
house was at the rear of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral and alongside that other St.
Andrew’s which belonged to the Church ot
Scotland. The only playground the pupils
had was the old George-street cemetery,
adjacent. The numerous Drs. Sly were
among “Barney” Cane’s youngsters.
“Country Bed” : What's the use of teach-
ing youngsters political geography these
shifty times? Pretty well every statement
in the text-books now has to be qualified by
“used to be,” or “before the war.” Here are
two anachronisms taken at random from the
text-book authorised by Vic. Education
Department:—•
Antwerp and Amsterdam are ports of call for Ger-
man steamers trading between Hamburg and Aus-
tralia.
The Government of Russia is an absolute
monarchy.
The political geography lessons should be
changed into little historical talks on the
war and its changes day by day.
“WarwinWhy should ministers of reli-
gion be exempted from compulsory service?
Is there any part of their job which could
not be performed at least as well by women?
Thousands of good solid sermons are to be
bought cheap ; they are just as fresh now as
if they had been written yesterday, and they
could be read aloud with all the right inflec-
tions by any of the thousands of attractive
young lady elocutionists who swarm in the
suburbs. Most of the district visiting is
undertaken by women already, and I don’t
see why they can’t attend to the sermons too.
I would rush to hear honorary- or acting-
Reverend Ethel Excelsior chirp one of Spur-
geon’s back numbers. It would lend a new
interest to churchgoing and release hundreds
of young, able-bodied men for some useful
war purpose.
“Rosna,” from London :
The Germans have accomplished a good deal, but
I never thought they’d quench the taciturnity of
the Londoner, who regards his neighbor as a felon
from motives of self-respect. Yet they’ve done it.
These air-raids! As we lean out the windows listen-
ing to the first bang of our guns we become posi-
tively effusive with Mr. Next-Door in heliotrope
pyjamas and Mrs. Across-the-Road in a blanket
and boudoir cap. Those of us who have cellars
hold receptions during the performance. When it
is over we do the block in perfectly chic costumes,
ranging from a chintz chair-cover to a bath-robe
and motor-bonnet. If you prefer to have your raid
in public you dash to the nearest tube, where faint-
ing may be indulged in without inconvenience to
your family. A hundred thousand people sheltered
in these subways during a recent raid. A Maori-
lander working in one of the University settlements
in the East End has made a habit of opening her
cellars to frightened sluhi mothers and babies, who
have no proper shelter in their homes. The police
heard of it and asked how many she could take in
at a pinch. She recklessly replied 200, and was
alarmed to receive a letter of thanks from head-
quarters for her “promise to take in 200 women and
children and provide beds for them if necessary.”
Harry Lawson, who was mentioned as a
possible “compromise” candidate for the A'ic.
Premiership, belongs to an old Victorian
family. Grandpa Hawkins, who was an
early-day sheepgrower of the Western Dis-
trict. lived at Portland in his sunset years.
A Hawkins daughter married the ex-
Attorney-General’s father; and another
became Mrs Jacob Goldstein, mother of
Vida. So the Hawkins strain seems respon-
sible for a good deal of assorted political
energy. Lawson went into the Assembly
in IS9O. taking now-Brig.-Gen. McCay’s
seat, and has held it ever since.
“645”: The officer who takes on the job of
observing from a captive balloon needs to be
born lucky. Our battery horse-lines are
situated near a balloon section of the R.F.C.
Yesterday we proceeded with the monotonous
routine of waggon-line soldiering until about
three o’clock, when all hands were surprised
to hear the rat-a-tat-tat of machine-guns.
We looked up and saw two Hun ’planes
swooping and spitting at the big bags. Soon
six white pieces of rag weighted with
swinging black objects told us that the crews
of three neighboring balloons had left for
home. Two chaps dropped fully 40ft. before
their ’chutes opened. They, however, landed
safely some distance from their camp. The
pair from the next sausage made better be-
ginning, but finished badly. One fell into a
lake and was drowned; the other crashed
into the trees along the main road and was
badly barked. The remaining two landed
safeiy, but had a few miles’ walk back to
quarters.


y? :
t
"~C
IK.
'/• •
’•saws
'
■ . ■ '
.
*
'& W ’£'*«>. * %
m
?'■■■■-■■ ■
.
fb'i
i V:
Hi*
•M*
•4ft
Mi
.
.. ••
e
431 * '>**=*
-v
. - * 2? ‘
#* m
v » :
. . ‘ * •
*w
fSiiwillii
IdlsiSlti
| % *- 4 **
0* .*■
■ , <** ;
. .... ... . *•-**.«*.-•*
& : 3,-1%: i ‘ f£ %■ ti Z*
m
\
jli mina
MNIM O.NVD
*, .:. Jj.
x \
,
T - r -- W^
BARNET CLASS
CARDEN HOSE
Obtainable all Reputable Store Keepers


Amu
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
T lv O L, I THEATRE, SYDNEY
Nightly at S. Matinfes Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
i)l , 'mi R ™' W , D v„ LEE ’ ROGERS, CAMILLE TRIO.
rlanolds and white, joe reed, the
HARLANS, THE PAINTERS, ALVIN AND
WILLIAMS.
T'' OU THEATRE. MRIJIOHKNK.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MARIE KING-SCOTT, MARIE EATON.
MILLIE ENGLER AND CO. in THE BEAUTY SHOP
JO SE p H BLASCHECK. ALYCE AUSTIN
ETHEL VAUGN, THE SATINETTOS SIGNOR
DONS K VrPuIv LT ivn M ° I?GAX ’ ™ E TWO SHEL-
DONS, NIEMAN AND KENNEDY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Matinee Every Wednesday at 2.
KATHLENE MACDONELE
With CHARLES WALDRON
in
CHEATING CHEATERS.
H
KR)IA,IESTY ’ S. S Y D N E Y
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD."
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
Including FLORENCE YOUNG,
in
THE RED WIDOW.
A Musical Play of Smart Dialogue.
H
S E
ErLA Y H o U
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sole Lessee: SYDNEY JAMES.
GRAND CHRISTMAS ATTRACTION.
SYDNEY 7 JAMES presents
THE RAJAH OF SHJVAPORE,
A Comic Opera of the East, Ry Alfred Hill.
Book by David Souter.
Full Chorus and Ballet.
Plan opens at Paling’s ou Saturday.
’▼▼TV
TKIANGLE PLAYS AT
' THE lACKCM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions.: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. Od.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
UEH MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their New English Musical Comedy Co.
in
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
THEATRE royal, m eurou i:n E.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MARIE TEMPEST,
in
_ MRS. DOT.
LT ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 8.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
lAN MACLAREN and a Specially-selected Co. in
DAVID GARRICK.
Popular Prices.
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30.
THIS WEEK'S FEATURES.
ETHEL BARRYMORE
in
THE LIFTED VEIL.
And
ALMA lIANTON and EDWARD ELLIS
in
THE GREAT BRADLEY MYSTERY.
Prices as usual.
Majestic theatre. Melbourne
Direction UNION THEATRES LTD.
By arrangement with E. J. CARROLL.
NOW SHOWING.
REX BEACH’S
Wonderfully Vivid and Picturesque Alaskan
Romance,
THE BARRIER.
Not “one” of the Greatest, but “THE” Greatest
Picture of the Year.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
RITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
*yHE SONG OF THE HOUR!
ONE OF THESE DAYS.
ONE OF THESE DAY'S.
The Absolute Most Successful Song Published for
Many Years.
Price 2/-. All Music Stores, or direct.
JOE SLATER PUBLISHING CO., SYDNEY.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 22nd November, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of American
Oregon TimLer to Commonwealth
Naval Dockyards, Cockatoo Island
and Garden Island, Sydney,
ri TENDERS will be received, subject to
JL the conditions of tendering, until 12
noon on FRIDAY, 14th DECEMBER. 1917,
for the supply of American Oregon Timber
to Commonwealth Naval Dockyards, Cocka-
too Island and Garden Island, Sydney.
Tender forms, specifications and any
further particulars may be obtained on
application at the Offices of the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office. Melbourne;
General Managers, Commonwealth Dock-
yards, Cockatoo and Garden Islands. Syd-
ney ; and at the Naval Staff Office, Brisbane.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
CENTRAL FLYING SCHOOL.
Vacancies for Air Mechanics.
\ PPLICATIONS are invited for appoint-
-V ment as Air Mechanics in the Aviation
Instructional Staff, Central Flying School,
Laverton, Victoria.
Applicants must be between the ages of
18 and 20 years, and have been engaged in
or have studied at one of the following
trades:—•
Turner and Fitter.
Motor Engine Fitter.
Motor Driver.
Pattern-maker.
Woodworker.
Metal Machinist.
Instrument Fitter.
Tailor.
Coppersmith.
Sheet Metal Worker.
I ull particulars and forms of applica-
tion may be obtained from the Military
Commandant. Victoria Barracks, Sydney.
Applications must be addressed to—
The Secretary.
Department of Defence.
Melbourne.
And forwarded so as to reach him not later
than the 22nd December. 1917.
T. TREMBLE.
Acting Secretary.
r'EORGE HOTEL,
■St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
rl "' Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHL
5. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
insist on singleton’s ” —refuse all substitutes.
Xtegral Notices.
N TIIE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AFRICA
(Transvaal Provincial Division).
re HARRY HERBERT ROE, Plaintiff,
versus HELEN ROE (born Aulton),
Defendant.
CITATION.
To HELEN ROE (born Aulton)
Take notice that by Citation and Intendit
issued from and now filed in this Office you
have been cited to cause an appearance to
be entered at this Office on the 4th day of
March 1918 in an action to be heard in the
Supreme Court of South Africa (Transvaal
Provincial Division) at Pretoria in which
HARRY HERBERT ROE of Pretoria
claims restitution of conjugal rights failing
which divorce on the ground of malicious
desertion and that in default of your appear-
ance the action may be proceeded with and
judgment granted against you without
further notice to you.
Dated at Pretoria this 18th day of
October, 1917.
F. L. C. BICCARD JUTA,
Registrar of the Court.
C. Podlashuc (Podlashuc & Nicolson),
Plaintiff’s Attorney, 22 Bureau Street.
Pretoria.
Wanted.
ORKING OVERSEER wanted for
Southern Queensland property.
Twenty thousand sheep. Salary £l5O per
annum and quarters, to start. Apply,
“OVERSEER,”
C/o NEW ZEALAND LOAN,
Brisbane.
1
Business Notices.
A Fine
Christmas
Gift for
the Home.
The EDISON
“AMBEROLA” 50.
Here is an instrument that will not only
add to the enjoyment of Christmas —but will
yield the richest kind of pleasure in the years
that follow.
Get one for YOUR home. Your wife and
children will be overjoyed with it.
The “Amberola” 50, illustrated, has a hand-
some appearance and plays the practically
unbreakable Blue Amberol Records. Prk e
£l6/10/-
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a
demonstration, or write direct for illustrated
catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
| F anybody in Australasia charges you moj-e than
• 6d. for a sing-le copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George’ Street, Sydney, and it will
he posted to you for one year. To any address
abroad, £1 10s. per annum.
the shave for me
u-
“What’s the use of experiment in g with Novelty Razors f There’s
nothing beats the good old
‘ PLUM * RAZOR.
There’s no other blade so finely tempered, or that keeps its edge so
long. The ‘Plum’ gives the shave for me.” Invest in one to-day.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor. Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6,
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List
CRAIG &. AITK.EN,
654 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
M213.—-18et. Gold
and Pure Platinum
Ring, set Finest
White Diamonds,
£ll/10/-
M199.-—lBct. Gold
and Pure Plati-
num, set with 12
Fine White Dia-
monds, £l4/10/-
Koo6.—Fine-quality Emerald and Diamond
set Platinum and loct. Gold Brooch.
Price £6/10/-
K 32. —Fine Diamond Cluster Brooch, set in
Platinum and 15ct. Gold. Price £l2/10/-
K46s.—Smallei Size, £ll/10/-
C 6726
WRITE FOR
OUR GIFT
CATALOGUE,
SENT POST
FREE.
Christmas
C'.fu f fomthc
" I' *^Treasure House,
Artistic, New,
and Keenly Priced.
I\4l. Fine Diamond set Platinum and loct.
Gold Price £B/10/.
Ditto, larger Size, set with Diamonds and
Pearl. Price £ll/10/-
STEWART
DAWSON’S,
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street, Sydney.
IT S GREAT
7 1 find I can
get: away f or m
week-end on my
SMITH
motor
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence. ln
On sale by all the following fi rms
nte, or call for particulars.
K. K. Kussaek, 377 a Elizabeth St a ,
ney; rinlip Trankel & Co., Edwards?'
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Ltd p-’’
5:iL" -’•••
P*o v
8S If
Qrn a
£ «*
<s>
c*r>
so|
>r>
r», «>»
ro
'••.:» rr
DJ
'"it,
Hll|,
liiiitiH.-..:;:
O
fro
;-2
ro
D
A Book of
192 Pages
called
‘POCKET
QUEENSLAND'
PROFUSELY
illustrated.
Telling all dboufrty
Millioni of Acres
of fitrhle land for
intending .settlers
will bCs€Of_you
by filling m fh«
Coupon below.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are bane
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma—an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwiek, Sydney, 5/- and2/6,
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Xon-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CUBE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ettab. 1891,
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Cqlds an( f
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ARE YOU
RuptureO
useless
Have you grown tired of wearing
and cumbersome spring trusses? t»o )
want to obtain an Appliance that is n0 T „..r
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, : b {jNDER ALL
and we
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE
CONDITIONS? Then write to us,
will send you particulars and testm
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything <'
This is something ENTIRELY N’EW. ’
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANt-
YET INVENTED. It does away altogetn
with galling steel springs and chafing
understraps The pad is made of soft rubbeb
which exerts a GENTLE yet /IBM
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To sh
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRLAE.
in every instance. The price is witfiii .
reach of all. Can you ask Jot _,y
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and Stcun*
FROM THE FIRST DA\ T ’S USE. B>
It is suitable for men, women and rß rr,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FB
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne^


Kept Awake Hours
By Rash On Back and
Shoulders. Inflamed
and Itchy. Pimples
Came. Cuticura Soap
and Ointment Healed.
Above are extracts from
a signed statement recently
received from Herbert H.
Hughes, Moira Yale, Finley,
N. S. W., July 24, 1916.
Cheap soaps,harsh soaps,coarse,
strongly medicated soaps are re-
sponsible for half the skin troubles
in the world. They make little
irritations into great ones. Stop
the use of all doubtful soaps. Use
Cuticura, and no other soap, for
all toilet purposes. Help it with
touches of Cuticura Ointment.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIES
SPEOAL/SE
TWO
L! A/EE
I# 5
s
0
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/»nD
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
Ik. STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
&T /HOOTER ST NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep shell, dark blue gastight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
oz. shot.
ELEY
’320 Revolver
ELEY
32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAWiS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
If any illustration appearing in Ihe
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
**Before I Sit in a Chair / Like to Know Whether It Has
Been Polished with an Oily Substance or with
IV/TOST LIQUID POLISHES remain on the
■IYI surface, gathering every bit of dust and
dirt and soiling the hands and clothing. Dis-
criminating housewives add to the comfort of
family and guests by polishing their furniture
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a perfectly hard,
dry, glasslike polish of great beauty and durability.
It never becomes soft or sticky in the hottest weather
or from the heat of the body. Consequently it does
not gather dust or show finger prints.
Polish All Your Furniture
including the piano and organ with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. You will be surprised at the won-
derful improvement. It gives Craftsman Furniture
that soft, artistic polish so appropriate to this style.
It entirely removes the cloudiness from Mahogany,
restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes have no effect whatever on it.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Keep
a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos .
Floors
Piano
Furniture
Woodwork
Motor Car
jOHNSO^
Obtainable from all good Dealers—or
- • Use this Coupon for Trial Tin - - - -
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of I I
Johnson’s Prepared Wax 1 -*
sufficient for a good test. Also send book
on Home Beautifying, free and postpaid.
Name
Address ...
/ usually buy from
Fill Out this Coupon and Post to
s. c. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effecft in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma (El All Chest
Affections.
1/6 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to —
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
m
K
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Th?
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 lCs.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
“The Emu”: Gone to the Great Itest,
William Henry (“Chips”) Carpenter, aged
69. Hailing from Ballarat, where he was
contemporary with Watkin Wynne, of the
Sydney D.T., he learnt to write his first par.
there and later received promotion to the
Age. Sydney called, however, and 30 years
ago he crossed over. Of the subsequent
years 25 were spent in steering the Ash-
field Advertiser. Despite change of
ownership and presentations by local resi-
dents he stayed there until 1916, when he
decided it was time to hand over to younger
men.
Spiked the last of his copy, Lieut. Ken-
neth G. Connolly, stepson of Harry Peters,
of Sydney Telegraph. Four years ago lie
left the Age for a Northern Territory job
as experimentalist on the Federal Govern-
ment Farm, being fitted therefor by a gradu-
ate course at Dookie Agricultural College.
But he sought a wider field when the Kaiser
began sowing the dragon’s teeth, and, after
gaining his star on the field in France, went
out in the advance on Passchendaele Ridge,
aged 27. His forebears were Victorian
pioneers, and a cousin was Brig.-General
Grant, of Palestine.
“F.”: It is stated by “Ethel Jones” (B.
15/11/T7) that pioheer gallerywoman Stella
Henderson, now Mrs. Allen, “still does some
book-reviewing for the Argus.” That’s as
inadequate as to say that Lloyd George is
still taking some interest in the war. As
“Vesta” Mrs. Allen edits the Argus weekly
page for women, thereby making the paper
endurable to a host of housewives. She
avoids most of the absurdities with which
the average “woman’s column” abounds, and
earnestly tries to retain her reputation for
commonsense. Book-reviewing has its value,
<jf course, but for the purpose of general
uplift the instructor in pot-wallopry and
economical short-cuts occupies a much more
valuable position in presswork. You can’t
feed the brute properly and be an extensive
novel-reader.
Capt. R. Llewellyn Jones, who formerly
ploughed the Inky Way in Westralia, has
turned up as a prisoner of war in Germany.
After leaving Perth Jones went to China as
correspondent for London and N’York
papers, and soon after war started
streaked to Europe and joined up with
the Tommies. He won an M.C. and
a French War Cross at Ypres, and
was cut off with five Tommy platoons on the
Yser Canal. When last seen the officers
were fighting back to back, and it was sup-
posed that that was the end of them; but
two of them, Capt. Ward (N.S.W.) and
Jones, were picked up alive by the Germans.
Jones, sen., is editor of the Coonamble
Independent, out on the Castlereagh.
HANSARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The only honest reports they could expect are in
Hansard.”—A Queensland M.L.A.
There’s the splendid English yeoman, who was once
his country’s pride,
Until Freetrade and the Game Laws smote him
grievous, and he died;
And our glorious ancestors, who’ve now fled this
shifting scene.
They were brave and good and honest, as we are
small and mean.
For the world was always better than the world can
be to-day;
Of past honesty and goodness we hear the old men
bray;
Yet virtue’s still abundant in that very dreary
tome
Called Hansard —there the noblest, rarest work of
God’s at home.
Published to us twice a week
In it all the virtues speak,
And you hear the legislator’s moral apparatus creak.
Diogenes burned kerosene to find an honest man
(Or olive oil or oil of whales ere Rockefeller ran
All products of petroleum to the price of ice in
Hell) ;
But the truth resides in Hansard, not the bottom
of a well.
Ananias and Sapphira, Tom Pepper, Titus Oates
Hansard never has reported, for they can’t get any
votes.
It’s the book of all the virtues; in it only good men
speak.
The world’s craving for its wisdom, so it’s pub-
lished twice a week.
And the Upper House and Low
Make their eloquence to flow,
To help the buds of beauty and of honesty to flow.
Each day the Speaker reads the prayers, the mem-
bers say “Amen,”
And cry for “Divine guidance” for their legislation
then;
The Speaker makes his exit, and the Chairman takes
his place,
And the blokes “Divinely guided” start to run a
willing race
Of scorn, abuse and slander, those “Divinely-guided”
ones,
And the men reporting Hansard work, through
moons and stars and suns,
Writing down the seeming wisdom (which is bosh
to you and me)
And the wild vituperation and the god-like honesty;
And Ananias dies
For he only lives on lies ;
And the honesty of Hansard is to him a great sur-
prise.
There’s small honesty in papers, they all for Party
are,
Their gaze is on the marshes, and they never see a
star;
And Danton and Abe Lincoln might be both rolled
into one,
And the Liberal “organs” wouldn’t see his presence
in the sun;
He who fights with vested interests often stops a bat
of brick
(Or sub-leaders quite as heavy) ; or the meaner,
older trick
Of half-lie and half-suppression and distorted phrase
and sense.
But in Hansard all is holy; all is honesty immense!
For there the angels are
Spruiking speeches to a star,
With as little 1 dearth of modesty as of lager in the
bar.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 0
6 will purchase a Certificate for
6
0
0
O
0
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6- War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
gave and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
r'r'MMOXWKALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA. Octcbtr , 1917
%
%
kJ
THREE ~ RTBBEZ) TYRES
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and -prices will be
mailed on request,
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B. 70
IMPORTANT.-LQOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROC"E. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
ill
When they are hard to clean
Metal-polishes will dissolve the
tarnish, but they also eat the
metal. Bon Ami does the work
better and does not scratch or
eat the metal.
Bon Ami contains a soft,
spongy mineral which
rubs off the tarnish and
the dirt by a physical
process instead of a
chemical process.
Boni Ami is cleaner and nicer to
use than a metal-polish. It is not
oily or bad smelling. It is perfectly
safe to use in cooking-utensils
for it contains no acids.
(T oFor all the
f Finer Kinds of
Polishing & Cleaning
•%t your Grocer’s.
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
-
KB
84. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight,
about silb Freight paid,
“SURE CATCH’’ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
ft
m
sms
836. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7J to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7J to 75 lb. —-
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch harrels Freight paid,«“ , J IVJ ■
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/15/-
?=-
■y r
sir
m
m
-'V
*;<f :
'kmmjii
*K
837. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choice, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight
of 12-gauge 7$ to 8i lb., 16-gauge, 7i to 8 lb. — -g* /j /| /
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, IW/«
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £4/15/-
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1 /», free.
839. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2Jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight,
• Freight paid, 3LIO/5, 1-
840. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
12-gauge, similar description to 839 Freight paid, £lO/5/-
s
g
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
g:ood for two weeks from date.
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2sin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7}lb Freight paid,
*7/71*
is
BIS. Winchester Automatic Repeating R
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20m.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about sjjlb.; sighted /■ £
point blank to 100 yards; will kill at 500 Freight paid, 3t*U/*"
SWEET CROP Smoking Mixture.
Really Delightful.
l>2 oz. tin, 1/1 (post free).
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 189-
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
* full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel • Freight paid, £o/«/
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/o/ m
With Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/5/"
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half AIt“J
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight */ / ”
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892 Model, 241 ” j
octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes 25 shor ,
long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight 511 b. — Adlm
Freight paid, O
„ -a I*l-
- as above, with round barrel
1 We Repair All Kinds of Guns and RiflesJ
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List ( dialogue Bl), also “Sure Catch” An 9
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. T e
nrp money savers.
1C
1
c
TIUSTRTILms GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
7im TOBACCONISTS
TIT
m
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St also at
Tiewcasik t- Brisbane


Delightful Miss Madge Elliott
is a REXONA Girl.
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT (from a photo, by Tesla Studios )
Miss Madge Elliott is
one of the most charming
artists of the J. C. Wil-
liamson Co. Ltd., and has
rapidly come to the front
as a clever and artistic
solo dancer. To see Miss
Elliott is to love her.
Dear Sirs, —
Add me to your
Rexona Club, please.
If anyone deserves
election I do, for I
use nothing but Rex-
ona Soap for my bath,
my complexion and my
hair. If I knock my-
self in hurrying on or
off the stage, or get a
little stiff, I use Rex-
ona. It is worth its
weight in gold in one’s
medicine chest. Please
notify me when
elected.
I am,
Yours sincerely,
(Signed)
MADGE ELLIOTT.
They Go Together
Beauty and REXONA.
The Rexona Remedies consist of Rexona the Rapid Healer and Rexona Skin and
I'acial Soap, both universal favorites. Noted dancers and acrobats And Rexona
unequalled as a rub-down for stiff’ muscles, as well as for the knocks and cuts of
everyday life. Rexona Soap gives natural beauty to the skin and hair, and is a
favorite with every girl and woman who values her appearance. Rexona the Rapid
Healer is sold at 1/6 and 3/-, and a dainty tablet of Rexona Soap is only 1/-.
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
T
SPEND YOUR
AFTERNOONS ON
THE VERANDAH
not in the kitchen. Let the “ Rex’ ’
Chefs stand at your command
during the hot summer months.
One of their most popular foods is
“REX” CAMP PIE.
A dainty Meat Treat that comes to you ready to
serve. It saves hours of work in a sweltering
kitchen.
" REX ” CAMP PIE is a most appetising dish,
made from the choicest meats , cooked and
seasoned in the exclusive "REX" way. It is
worthy of particular notice from every housewife
in these days of high meat prices.
" REX" CAMP PIE is more economical than
fresh meat, yet equally nourishing.
Get a tin to-day. You con serve
it cold. (Put the tin on ice for 10
or 15 minutes, and notice how
firm the jelly turns out).
The addition of any kind of salad
makes it more enjoyable.
All Grocers sell "REX' CAMP PIE. There
can be no substitute if you say
“Rex” Brand, please.
When you desire a new*
Sandwich spread, try
“Rex” Ham Pate
or
“Rex'* Veal and
Tongue Pate.
They are all Pure Meat and
make dozens of different
appetising sandwich fillings
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Packers of “ Rex ' ’ Pure Food Products
Curers of “ Rex ‘ ’ Hams and Bacon J2B
Ballynaskeagh.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MIST over a far sea
And fields purple and green ;
And ’tis there, surely, that I
would be
With the sweet things seen,
With the old things I remember
And the old things I forget,
By the turf fire of December
Or the June hedges wet.
There’s a tree my mother’s father
With his own hand set;
There’s a well I’d drink at rather
Than all streams met;
There’s an old gate swinging
In a low grey wall—
And, och, for thrushes singing
When the apple-blossoms fall!
Light over a far sea ;
And there Slieve Donard looks
With more thoughts to bring to me
Than all brown books,
Than brown books with gold bands
And paper yellow old,
For the blue mountain understands
All a heart can hold.
’Tis far away and far to keep,
And winding is the road ;
And I have fifty fields to reap
With white corn sowed ;
But the old things that were very fair,
And the old things I forget,
And a woman’s head with soft grey hair
Are living with me yet.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
L’Ange du Sud.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M DENIS FRANCOIS-MARIE DE
BEAULIEU, lieutenant in the
navy of his Majesty Louis XVI.
of France, came ashore at Botany Bay, with
the enthusiastic intention of visiting Sydney.
With him was fat Jean Vardois, surgeon of
the Boussole. He, too, was full of enthusi-
asm, dejeuner, and a considerable quantity of
the wine of Bordeaux. The hour was 1 p.m.,
the day was the last of February in the year
of our Lord ITSB, and the white sands of the
great bay danced in a blaze of heat. Its blue
waters shimmered and sparkled between the
low r , scrubby shores, and the two ships of the
good Jean Frangois Galaup, Comte de Lape-
rouse, swam at their moorings in a sheen of
sunlit waters, with the golden lilies of Old
France drooping above their high and carved
and gilded poops.
As they walked up by the little two-gun
fort which had been built for the protection
of the frames of the two longboats being put
together on shore, the surgeon removed his
hat and his wig and wiped his perspiring
bald head.
“Eh, Denis, my brave boy, it is of a hot-
ness this charming climate of La Baie Botan-
ique—a very grand hotness. Name of a little
good man f Is it a league, or is it two
leagues to this so desirable port of Monsieur
Jackson ?”
“Two leagues, my doctor. Two good leagues
that will reduce your grossness. But courage,
my old friend. Consider the society of the
charming Monsieur Dawes, of the excellent
Monsieur King, of the good Governor Phillip.
We visit the metropolis of the New World —-
and there may be ladies. Be comforted.
Courage, man enfant!”
He clapped the surgeon on the back, laugh-
ing, and led the way into the scrub.
A fine figure of a young man this M. de
Beaulieu —spare and graceful and active.
Twenty-five, perhaps, with blue eyes and a
laughing brown face, and his own fair hair
tied into a neat queue behind his shapely
head with a ribbon of black silk. He wore
his best uniform, and the gold of its epau-
lettes glinted in the sun. His companion was
less gorgeously arrayed, but there was evi-
dence of care also in the adornment of his
person.
He was forty and stout and scant ot
breath, and his round, good-humored face sug-
gested that he was cast in a wrong part. He
might have played the jovial monk better,
possibly, than the man of science. Neverthe-
less, he was a man of very notable science,
and the birds and beasts and beetles of his
collection were the pride and the nuisance of
the ship of the chef d'escadre, the Boussole.
If you take that walk to-day you will find
it a long one —and to-day there are inns
where cool beer may be had on hot days, and
there are roads where the walking is at least
good. But for M. de Beaulieu and M. Var-
dois there was but sand and scrub and a
great thirst. There were snakes in the scrub,
and sometimes they saw black men who were
armed with spears and boomerangs, and were
of an unpleasing appearance, so that the two
officers felt thankful that they each carried
a brace of pistols and a small sword. Their
feet were soft from ship life, and before they
came to the Surrey Hills and looked down
over the blue waters of Port Jackson the
surgeon had a blistered heel, and M. de
Beaulieu’s boots were pinching him.
“It is of a beauty most admirable,” pathet-
ically murmured Jean Vardois, “but it is
difficult of attainment, this Port of Jackson.
Holy blue —but I have of a thirst the most
frightful! Behold, I shall drink this Seed-
nay dry, when that we shall have arrived. ’
“Courage!” huskily responded M. de Beau-
lieu, as he spat dryly and with difficulty.
“Courage, my gallant man. We will punish
the wines of these English. Forward ! ’
It was not until they had reached the
heights above Woolloomooloo Bay that they
beheld any signs of the new settlement. The
smoke of many cleai ing fires eddied up into
the afternoon air from beyond the forest of
tall trees that covered the ridges and grew
along the valley of the Tank Stream. There
was a sound of axes. Once a dog barked,
and once they heard the lowing of a cow.
It was nearly five o’clock before they came
to the marsh which was the source of Syd-
ney’s water supply. When the tiny trickle
of the little stream formed itself into pools
where they might drink they quenched their
thirst greedily, and fat Jean insisted upon a
rest while they bathed their hot faces in the
cool water that tinkled through the shady
forest. With their handkerchiefs they
brushed the dust from boots and clothing.
The surgeon put on his coat, which he had
carried over his arm for miles, adjusted his
wig and made himself ready for a dignified
entry into the capital of the Australias.
M. de Beaulieu attended to his toilet with
the aid of a pocket mirror. It was six o’clock
when they began the last stage of their
fatiguing journey.
They had hardly started when, suddenly
walking round a clump of bottle-brush, they
came upon beauty in distress. It was such
amazing beauty that it took them both
aback, and its distress moved them as only
gallant men who are sailors and Frenchmen
can be moved. They halted, removed their
hats, and bowed their devotion.
“ Mademoiselle /” exclaimed Denis Fran-
gois-Marie.
“Ma petite /” grunted fat Jean.
She was young, she was unhappy, she was
very beautiful. Perhaps she was 19, perhaps
20. Even the coarse and ill-fitting garments of
a female convict could not disguise the shape-
liness of her figure. A wealth of splendid
golden hair was loosely tumbled in a dis-
ordered heap upon her head, and the level
rays of the setting sun, shining down the
aisles of the forest, made a sort of aureole
about her lovely face. The face was the
face of an innocent child, the face of a
seraph, the face of beauty, of goodness, of
purity. It was, so it seemed to Denis Fran-
gois-Marie, the most charming, the most
enchanting, the most captivating face he
had ever seen—and it was wet with tears.
He whispered softly to his companion—
“L’Ange du Sud!”
Stepping forward, and bowing deeply, with
all the grace and courtliness of one who most
assuredly would have brilliantly ornamented
the scaffold of the guillotine a very few
years later, had he returned to France, de
Beaulieu spoke in such English as was at
his command.
“Alas, mademoiselle, ’e gives us distress
to be’old you thus. Will you not spik to us
the cause? C’est pitoynble! We are the
’umble slaves of your divinity. We are ’ere
but to ’elp mademoiselle. We are desolated
by ’er sorrows, Jean, thou gross pig,’’ he
added in French to the surgeon, “say some-
thing, do something—mountain of flesh that
thou art!”
She looked at the young officer with those
glorious eyes that were deep wells of inno-
cence. Not for nothing had she learned to
use them in Pall Mall. Not altogether use-
less had they been on the Lady Penrhyn,
during the voyage to New South Wales.
Not altogether groundlessly did she entertain
a hope that they might be of assistance to
her in making a voyage away from New
South Wales, upon one or other of the
French ships, in the immediate future.
_ “Oh, sirs,” she faltered, “I am but a poor
girl who has been unjustly sent away to this
horrid place, charged with a crime of which
she is innocent. Save me, sirs!” She used
the plural, but she meant the singular. “Save
me from these wicked men. Oh, for the love
of heaven, save me !”
It was consummate art, and it succeeded.
While fat Jean explored Sydney Harbor for
plants, beetles, lizards, Denis Francois-Marie
employed himself, during their two days’
stay *in the little camp of Sydney, to better
and nobler purpose. And the Angel of the
South dreamed a satisfying dream that she
might once again find life worth living in
London Town as a nymph of the West.
* * * *
On the 10th of March the Boussole and
the Astrolabe lifted their anchors out of the
sandy floor of Botany Bay, and, as was
recorded by a Scotch philosopher living in
Chelsea, “vanished trackless into blue im-
mensity.” On the 9th de Beaulieu superin-
tended ashore the final dismantling of the
little fort, the removal of the tents of the
encampment, and the last touches of loving
sympathy that were bestowed by his com-
rades upon the new grave of the P|re
Receveur. Where the tomb that was erected
by the Baron de Bougainville in 1825 sTantTs
to-day the “man of letters and genius” was
buried at the foot of a tree, and de Beaulieu
himself nailed two boards upon its trunk,
upon which were inscribed the particulars of
his death and his personality.
He had just finished his sad task when a
gleam of color against the dark green of
the scrub caught his eyes. The scarlet coats
of six English marines, led by a sergeant—a
profane fellow, and ill-content with the cir-
cumstances of his march from Sydney—
came into view, and de Beaulieu paused to
await them. His face went a little white
and he bit his lips. The perspiring sergeant
halted his men and marched stiffly down to
where the French officer stood, hammer in
hand, by the priest’s grave.
“Bonjour, mon sargent,” he politely
acknowledged the marine's salute. He was
unaware of the contempt which that wooden-
faced warrior entertained for frog-eaters and
dancers who kissed other men. “And w’at
may I ’ave the honor of to do for you?”
“A letter,' mossoo —from Mister Dawes —
to Mister th’ loot’nant Dee 800100. About a
runaway con wick—a woman. Maybe, they
thinks, she might ’ave come this way. I’m
sent to fetch ’er, if she ’as.” He took a
sealed and folded paper from the breast of
his jacket. De Beaulieu’s hand shook a
little as he received it.
“ G'est moi —l am the Lieutenant de
Beaulieu,” he said, breaking the seal. He
read the letter, while Sergeant Henry Haw-
kins, of Seven Dials and the Sea Regiment,
stood stolidly at attention.
“And we have taken’ the Liberty to sup-
pose, my dear de Beaulieu,” it concluded,
“that this Abandoned Female, who is full of
Artifices, may have designed to stow herself
away upon one of your Vessels. Has she
done so, I pray that you will be so good as
to hand her over to ye Bearer of this Letter,
enjoining you, for the Sake of our Mutual
Friend, Mr. Asst.-Commissary Biggs, to
do so in such a Manner as it may
not come to the ears of Mons. Lapd-
rouse, and so. possibly, to those of his Ex-
cellericy the Governor. She is Mr. Biggs’s
Woman, and is a handsome wench, having a
lock of Great Innocence and a pretty
speech. She is, however, a She Devil, and
(Continued on next page.)


WEAR BACKS.
Backache is really kidney ache ; the
ache comes from the kidneys, which
lie just beneath the small of the back.
When the back is weak and lame —
when it “cricks” if you turn sharply,
or stoop —when it burns with a burn-
ing ache, and keeps you awake half
the night —when you cannot bend
without a stab-like pain taking you —
when it makes hard work of the least
task —when it sets the whole body,
every limb and muscle, aching —give
your kidneys help at once in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s Pills
are a special kidney and bladder
medicine ; they give strength and
tone to the kidneys themselves, and
so cure the cause of backache.
Though backache is one of the
most common signs of kidney com-
plaint, there are other equally certain
symptoms, such as gravel, rheumatic
pains, watery swellings in the ankles
and beneath the eyes, urinary
troubles, dizzy spells, pains in the
limbs, spots before the eyes, sallow
complexion, etc.
Doan’s Pills flush out the liquid
poison that causes these symptoms,
and so protect you from the fatal
Bright’s disease and dropsy.
''EveryPicture
TeilsAStory
!fe
m
j-k
r
rr
iSfc
c*
"N
v
i
/ .ft
Mykcß ismyweaKesf spot"
Sydney Man’s Lasting
Cure. J
BACKACHE, URINARY DISORDER AND
DROPSICAL SWELLINGS.
Mr. Jas. C. Struck, Glen Ayr, 17 Clarence
Street. Sydney, says: “Seven years ago I was very
ill with a bad attack of disordered kidneys, caused.
1 think, through me doing a lot of heavy wort,
which in some way must have strained these deli-
cate organs. I suffered excruciating agony from
backache, and was at times so bad that I could
hardly move. Everything I had to do was a
trouble, and I was miserable and depressed, To
make matters worse my rest at night was much
disturbed, and I used to get up in the morning
feeling worn out. The kidney secretions were
thick and cloudy and contained a red sediment,
and my ankles swelled to twice their usual size,
being sore if I even touched them. I went on
suffering in this way for a long time, nothing 1
took doing me any good, but at last I got the right
remedy, and that was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Bills. After taking two bottles of these pills 1
felt much relieved, and by the time I had finished
eight bottles I was completely cured and felt a
different man. lam never troubled with back-
ache now, and my secretions are in a healthy state.
I attribute this to the good Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills did me nearly seven years ago- ’
Six years later, Mr. Struck says: “The cure
referred to above has proved permanent, I^ 1166
say no more, the facts speak for themselves.’
Be Sure You Get “DOAN’S”
LIKE MR. STRUCK HAD.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold bf
all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 P er |
bottle, or post free by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
-n
will one day assuredly knife Dick Biggs as
she knifed young Lord Belgate at his rooms
in Jermyn-street in London. Your squadron
will be well rid of such a baggage. As for Mr.
Higgs, ye sorry affair is his Business. With
my Best Wishes for the Prosperous Prosecu-
tion of your Voyage, and my Best Regards
to your worthy Doctor Vardois, I am, Yours,
ever to Command, William Dawes.”
He _ could not help a groan. Sergeant
Hawkins heard it, and suppressed a grin.
M ith bowed head M. de Beaulieu paced
backward and forward for a few moments,
the letter crumpled and crushed in his
clenched hand. He muttered softly to him-
sell, and although Mr. Hawkins’s knowledge
of the French tongue was strictly limited, he
knew that he was swearing. He noted, with
British scorn, that two tears ran down the
handsome face of the dam’ Frogeater.
Presently M. de Beaulieu sighed, and
turned to the sergeant.
“Y\ ill j t ou do me the honor of waiting for
me ’ere, M. le Sargent? I will go to the
ships and make inquiries. I will return in
an hour. Perhaps I may find this person.
Indeed, I have my suspicions. I will send
some wine for the refreshment of your gal-
lant comrades. Au revoir. In one hour.”
, “Aw —’im be d—d !” commented Mr. Haw-
kins as he strolled back to his patrol. “D—n
my heyes—a downy bird, ’e is !”
Punctually to time a boat came ashore
from the Astrolabe, and in the stern sheets
sat M. de Beaulieu. Beside him was a
very handsome boy, with close-cropped yellow
hair, and a flushed face, who swore out-
rageously below his breath. He was wrapped
in a boat-cloak, and his hands were tied
behind him. M. de Beaulieu’s face was
scratched. Without a word de Beaulieu
delivered the boy to Sergeant Hawkins and
his grinning men.
“My compliments a Monsieur Dawes,”
muttered the officer. He turned away and
walked down to the boat. She screamed
after him. “G—d and ye, ye
mongrel!”
Denis Frangois-Marie de Beaulieu shud-
dered and stepped into the boat, bidding his
men give way. At the gangway of the
Astrolabe stood le medicin Vardois, and his
fat sides shook with laughter. De Beaulieu
hurried by him, and sought his cabin as the
surgeon whispered huskily :
“Ah, mon brave — I’ange du Sad! L’ange
du Sad! Oh, la, la!”
The reef at Vanikoro holds the rest of the
tale.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Educated Ducks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“fTl HERE’S some great stuff in ‘Julius
| Caesar,’ ” I remarked to Benson, as
we left the theatre, confident that
he shared my impressive memory of the
tragedy.
An indifferent reply covered his introduc-
tion to the immortal Bill; and prompted by
the chances I had let slip in the quickening
years, I softly quoted: “There’s a tide in the
affairs of men which, taken at the flood,
leads on to”
“That’s the bit,” Benson interrupted. “I
don’t go nap on. Yer see, knowin’ what I
know, yer’ve got to get anchored, even when
an opporchunity’s there.”
“My boy, you don’t realise Shakspeare !”
“Xo-o. But I knew Bill Jenkins.” And
as we walked home Benson explained why
the Bard’s omission to provide a mooring-
stage played havoc with Bill’s fortune.
“Bill was what yer’d call a silent member.
I can always see him suckin’ at a cherry-
wood that he clutched in his hand, an’ while
you was talkin’ he’d be thinkin’. He’d make
a man who didn’t know him a bit oncom-
fortable, ’cause he always looked at a man’s
hat when thinkih’. That was when he was
gettin’ ideas. Ideas! He c’d figger out on
paper how to make thousands, an’ had
plenty o’ time to do it when he was workin’
for old Watkins the grocer.
“Bill had two hobbies an’ a wife that
used to nag a bit —well, not exactly nag, but
her people said she married beneath her, him
drivin’ a grocer’s cart an’ her father fore-
man at Jackson’s shirt-faet’ry, which made
her put on side now an’ agen. But y’ c’d
bank on Bill seein’ every show where there
was animal acts —an’ lookin’ after his eight
ducks. Fine ducks, too, an’ every Easter an’
C’ris’mas Bill had a haunted look in his
eye—afraid of the neighbors pinchin’ ’em.
When the festive ’ud come round, Bill
wanted to keep ’em in his room, but his
missus wouldn’t stand for it.
“I used to lean over the back fence —I
lived next to Bill—an’ watch him play with
them ducks for hours, ’cept when he put ’em
to bed early an’ went off to the Friv.
“Dinkum, they fed out of his hand an’
answered to their names.
“One night Bill called me over.
“ ‘Got a new idea,’ he ses, lookin’ at me
hair—l didn’t have a hat on. ‘l’ve been
goin’ to the theatres for years an’ years an’
seen performin’ monkeys, an’ parrots, an’
dogs, an’ seals, an’ even a goose ; but’ —he
looked round to see where his missus was—
‘didyer ever hear of performin’ ducks?’
“I didn’t, but he was so taken up with the
idea that I hadn’t the heart to tell him he’d
missed performin’ fleas.
“ ‘Well,’ he goes on, ‘on me dead ace I’ve
been teachin’ these ducks tricks that they
can do.’
“He faced me with a proud look that
was ready to break into a smile as soon as
I smiled.
“ ‘Margy !’ he called out. Sure enough a
duck quacked an’ come over to us, an’ when
Bill whistled ‘Everybody’s doin’ it,’ started
to waddle round in a circle. Straight wire,
it got me by the wool.
“ ‘ ’Erbert!’ he calls out again. ‘Bum turn
ti iddeley um. An’ the old drake come
marchin’ up jes’ like a soldier. I nearly fell
off the doorstep, but Bill was calm.
“ ‘l’m tellin’ yer this, Benny,’ he ses,
‘ ’cause we’re cobbers, an’ I’m puttin’ y’ in
with me. Next We’n’sday I’m givin’ a trial—
a try-out, they calls it—at the Friv. The
manager ses he encourages local talent, an’
if the turn’s ri’buck, there’s big money. It’s
a dead secret, y’know, an’ yore me assistant.’
“We was silent a good while.
“ ‘Charley Chaplin,’ he ses, ‘gets a thou-
sand quid a week !’
“ ‘That’s in the movies,’ I ses.
“ ‘The woman that had the trained par-
rots got a hundred quid a week !’
“I whistled.
“ ‘l’m catchin’ forty-five bob,’ he ses, ‘from
old Watkins.’
“We chatted over things quiet, then his
wife comes down the passage an’ looks into
the yard.
“ ‘Ain’t yer goin’ to put away them chooks
of yours?’ she ses.
“It hurt Bill, her callin’ his ducks
‘chooks,’ but he turns to me with a meanin’
look, an’ ses: ‘Perfessor Jenkinski an’ his
edjucated ducks —fifty quid a week !’
“We’n’sday mornin’ come, an’ Bill looked
excited in his best suit.
“ ‘Had an argument with old Watkins,’ he
ses, as we carried the ducks in two small
crates to the tram. ‘He ses if I don’t work
to-day I won’t to-morrow or agen. I told
him off, the old’
“ ‘Don’t swear,’ I warned him. Them
ducks was nearly human.
“Don’t laugh. The trial was great—no,
the ducks didn’t walk over the footlights, but
did ragtime waddles an’ fancy divin’ in tubs
of water. I tell yer Bill kid himself that
day. A feller there, a Yankee —he had his
hair brushed back —told Bill the turn was
worth a fortune.
“He looked a bit disappointed after seein’
the manager.
“ ‘I arst fifty,’ he ses, ‘an’ after lookin’
out of the winder a long time, he ses as I
hadn’t to pay me act eight was the best he’d
give. He owns it was the best local act
he’s seen, but business was crook on account
of the strike.’
“ ‘Gimme eight quid,’ I ses, ‘before forty-
five bob any day. When d’yer start?’
“ ‘Oh, they’re booked up with imported
turns for a couple of weeks, but I’m in as
soon’s there’s an openin’.’
“ ‘So y’ ought to be.’ I ses. ‘Ain’t Aus-
tralian money keepin’ his theatre goin’?’
“We had a couple of drinks goin’ home an’
near left the ducks in a bar.
“ ‘A man’ll have to get some Yankee clob-
ber,’ he ,ses.
“ ‘An’ wear a watch an’ chain in his coat
button’ole,’ I ses.
“ ‘An’ brush his hair back,’ he ses.
“It was all over the street that old Wat-
kins fired Bill when we got back, an’ his
missus roused. Bill winked at me, an’ we
both looked shrewd-heads.
“Bill was a picture when he got rigged
up. All he wanted was a twang to make
him the dinkum thing. Then it leaked out
about the edjucated ducks, an’ blokes that
never had any time for me used to come
round to see me, an’ say they’d jest as soon
sit out in the yard as the night was warm —
jes’ to see Bill put the ducks through the
turn. Bill’s back fence used to be in good
order, but now there was hundreds of cracks
in the palin’s, which made old Watkins,
that owned the house, go crook T~! '
m ( room only in the right-er-way
Bill haunted the theatre f or ' ,
the manager ses, ‘No openin’ A b «
mmsus was startin’ to nag a bi ? 4 Hi *
as Watkins got constant callin’ i peci %
an no money cornin’ in. or the rent,
J hen the people in the street lr, 1
the thing as a joke, an’ poor Bill ke ? «
walk down the road but ever^!!/?? ldt »’t
out ‘Quack! quack !’ to him, which' mU ?. ell
go sore on me. 1 ma <le him
Y\ e next heard his missus’d gonp u
to her mother ’cause Bill took th! a bo »e
bed with him —I s’pose he was afraK 8 M
kuls. An’ for weeks Bill Ihut
the ducks up in the house an' woiSf an ’
tor anyone. IQn t open
“I was standin’ outside the Frivniu
day when I heard some Yankee l ty on(!
dancers talkin’ about submarines IK'
mailboat delayed, an’ the program™? i the
up, an’ the manager off hisTead2 >*
m’ what to do for acts, when I SPJAny-
where I help Bill!’
“I rushed home, an’ turnin’ down
street, saw the telegraph boy stop m ?
was drivin’ old Watkins’s cart ag?n
him a telegram.
“Forgettiii’ our argument I sihm I
They're hung up!’ usin’ the YankTj?
‘l’ll bet it’s from the Friv. Bil] ” ' " ords '
“Bill jes’ took an’ opened the wire an'
handed it on to me.
“It read :—•
Professor Jenkinski, Duck Villa, Surbita
JSAr’ijM" - vo ” r
-Good oh rise,. Ver in at last'S.
Bill borrowed a pencil from the bo v *„>
wrote on the reply-paid form an’ showed it?
me. 1 1 1,1
“ <T °o late,’ it run. ‘Have eaten ducks!’”
RICHARD BELLAIRS.
Reading.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OFT in the purple solitude of night ;
I lift the tasselled curtains of fair
Thought,
And from my books I sip the slow delight
Of rose Romance in Fancy’s chalice caught.
Clear syllables from unseen lips drop down
And brief communion softly hold with me
As in some laurelled lane I pluck a crown
Of golden prose or broidered poesy.
Rut in the quiet of the printed leaf,
Hidden behind the sentence and the pause,
Love breathes and beats through Laughter,
sighs and Grief —
Master and moulder of eternal laws.
I raise my eyes from my cool realm of
thought,
Remembering the curve of your dear lips,
And all my reading with regret is fraught
Till from my hands the precious volume slips.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N Z Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne____
£
V
a
i? N 9 I'9^
THE BEST RAW MATERIAfc
HONEST MANUFACTURE.
REMEMBER!
9
will OUTWEAR the
HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED AS
SUBSTITUTES
ON
SELVEDGE
£
3?
V\
Rim Fire Cartridges for Target
and G ame Shooting
T‘]Sl choosing your rim fire cartridges, whether
A small bulleted, caps or larger calibers, ally your
firearm with a name and trade mark that as the
surest guarantee to accurate shooting and non-fouling.
The Remington UIVIG brand will
prove worthy of your confidence.
Obtainable from leading dealers and
gunmakers.
Descriptive catalogue
free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS
UMG CO.
D. D. BRYANT. Manager
Bos: 686, Melbourne
mm
Keep the
home fires
burninq.
mm
k H mm
mm.
'Afmw 1
p
pi *
w
' Vs.
P m P JPP
P M ;
jm m |
it ifinL» It it li %
' p
Gives a lasting
lather and a
smooth shave
/."--•Ssss/sr/SSSSSSS/S/SSf,
■/////a
Guaranteed
not to dry
on the Pace
From all Chemists & Stores.
Agents:
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
Beccl>am'sPills
may be relied upon, at all times, to exercise a tonic,
cleansing, healing influence upon the digestive organs.
A sensible use of this well-known specific is generally
all that is needed to relieve and remove those disorders
of the stomach liver and bowels, which are always
associated with dyspepsia in any form. BeechanTs Pills
are unfailing as a corrective and invaluable as a safe
stimulant of that important organ, the liver, upon the
efficient action of which so much depends. As a cure
for constipation and for removing its attendant discom-
forts and dangers there is no more reliable rerriedy. Ift
fact, as an aid to health generally, the judicious use of
Beecham s Pills is strongly recommended. They are
A Boon to All
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10id (36 pills), l/la (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
9 9
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
( Patented )
r.q I
11
m
IA/ each
A I m Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
“MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
So nice to use
J ,1. fl
0 0.
□ wr/iQ
And it enables you to
give the teeth every day
that thorough antiseptic
cleansing so necessary
to keep them in the best
possible condition.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
i
V# # v
• •
va
«
T
3C
at-'v
(PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS an 4 WORKMANSHIP!
99
°'/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by tbe Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
lELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loft vis Street,
SYDNEY.


MANGROVITE
LEATHER
3ELTING
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAAGKOVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
jjSajsc/
CAPITAL
“ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE.
ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Go. Ltd.,
Donnomoto Sttsl Works,SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND,
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
Fx3" ft"x3" ¥ x3" £x4" fx4"
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. La
379 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
John Reid & Nephews,
Bri
sbarae.
Are You Building a Home?
Factory? Warehouse?
Garage ?
It will pay you to investi-
gate the merits of
Hardies
Fibrolite (Regr.)
Cement
“Defies Time’s
Touch.”
Australian-made Asbestos
Cement Sheets.
“FIBROLITE” never Rusts, Rots,
Clacks or Chips. It is Fire-proof and Rain-
proof. “FIBROLITE” reduces expenses
by nearly 30%. Write for particulars & samples.
James Bardie g Co. S£“'K D fe
’Phone 6239 (3 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
h- Also at Brisbane & Adelaide.
SCHNAPPS
MADE FROM
THE BEST SELECTED
BARLEY
AND
ITALIAN
JUNIPER
BERRY
SMT
LOOK FOR THE NAME
Two High-class Australian-made Oil Engines.
Our stocks of the popular TANG YE Oil Engines are now low, due to Messrs.
Tangyes’ Big Works at Birmingham, England, having some time ago been taken
over by the Munition Authorities for War purposes.
We have, however, negotiated Agencies for Australian-made Engines, which are
most creditable productions, and which we offer with the same degree of
confidence.
THE “TRIUMPH.”
A vertical-type Benzine or Kerosene Engine, made
in two sizes only, viz., 35 and 5 b.h.p. (Stationary
and Portable). Has Magneto Ignition. Excellent
finish throughout.
THE ‘STAR.’’
A portable Horizontal Kerosene Oil Engine, made
in three sizes, 6£, 8 and 10 b.h.p. Has Magneto
Ignition. It is a High-grade Portable Engine at
a very LOW Cost.
1
A
jS
... DALGETY <SL CO. LTD.. Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
J or Bunc * e Chafl'cutters, Pane Milking Machines, Clayton Portable Engines, Tangye Pumps, E.1i.8. Separator Engines, etc.
m
nt
THE
m
1
ft
m
¥
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
—universally popular
The popularity of the “Wolseley” is the result of a world-wide recognition of their
absolute efficiency.
There is no fluctuation in the quality; it is not a mere “chance” when you obtain the
perfectly reliable “Wolseley”; their manufacture prevents them from being otherwise
than smooth-running and dependable.
Make your enquiries from
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., Australasian Agrents- ALL BRANCHES.
i *r
v - - »
o
y
Laundry Machinery & Supplies
We are now manufacturing and have In stock for
immediate delivery complete Laundry Equipment
of the latest English and American design.
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Power Ironing Machines, Hand Ironers, etc.
And ALL SUPPLIES for the Laundry Trade.
Call and inspect or write for full descriptive catalog.
60 Clarence Street,
- __ .
and Machinery Merchants,
is the CARD.
MODEL D is the only table mounted on Fiat Supporting
Springs which impart an idea! progressive movement.
4 4 4
kbreakers,
s,
Screens, Agitators, Classifiers,
N,
•9
Manufacturers,
City Office s Equitable Building, 350 Ge
e St., Sydney.
